https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6582637-archangel-s-kiss
I guess I'm a sucker for amusing banter. Especially when I love both characters and the world that these books are set in. "The only way to learn to fly, is to fly." He pushed her off the edge of the cliff...."That's your idea of teaching? I could've been splattered from here to Manhattan!""You were never in any danger." His eyes gleamed with laughter. "That's how young angels learn to fly...""You push babies out into thin air?""How do you think birds learn to fly?""Okay, push me again." Raphael
Raphael, is that you?If this book doesn't make you want wings and to fly, you must have some serious phobia going on because the descriptions of flying, and how Elena feels about it, are just captivating.
All of the other angels want to check her out and see what she's like.
So, Elena needs to get up to speed quickly so that she doesn't get killed, and she isn't a huge liability to Raphael.
Am I right, girls?)The last thing I need to mention is how awesome all of the other male angels in Raphael's group are.
3 Meh stars Okay no one jump me, but I'm not feeling this book, or this series like I thought I would.
Here it is the 4th of December, and I started this book on Nov 22.
That is how long it has taking me to finish this book.
I just kept walking away.
It' makes me feel sad because I really wanted to love this series.
I love Nalini Singh, but this series isn't grabbing me.
When I read book one I didn't love it but I did like it alright.
It had some potential, but there was something about it that
Okay no one jump me, but I'm not feeling this book, or this series like I thought I would.
It' makes me feel sad because I really wanted to love this series.
I love Nalini Singh, but this series isn't grabbing me.
When I read book one I didn't love it but I did like it alright.
I have been trying for a few days to figure out why this series isn't doing it for me.
This series doesn't really have a clear point.
Add all that to no well defined plot(for the series not each book), and tons of purple prose and repetitiveness.
Loved this one, especially Raphael <3 he gets better with each book :)Some of my favorite quotes:"“Do you think you have the right to give me orders now?”The Archangel of New York, a creature so lethal that part of her feared him even now, lifted the hair off her nape, brushed his lips across her skin.
Now, she was integral to his existence."---------------------------------------"The old ones saw Elena as exactly that—Raphael’s creation, his possession.
He’d kill for her, destroy for her, savage anyone who dared attempt to take her from him."---------------------------------------"“Teasing, Archangel?”Teeth grazed over her lips.
And your sheath will only ever hold my blade.”"
So they rule all with an iron fist, sword, angel-fire, or just pure power, which emanates from the strongest of them - the Archangels of the Cadre of 10.
So she is the new curiosity, and in keeping with the angelic inhumanity, most of the powerful ones want to break her and enjoy the fall-out from her destruction - did I mention, those ancient creatures have very little that amuses them anymore - live couple of thousand years and I guess you would have problems staying entertained as well.
“The longer you live, the more mistakes you make. And the more sorrows you carry.  Nalini Singh (NS) has given us an unusual world with Angels, Vampires and maybe some new big bad coming our way. It is interesting and unusual. Most of this story I like Elena has her new life as an Angel and the Consort to an Archangle but there is so much to learn. One does not simple get wings and learn to fly in a day. What I Enjoyed:Elena is a little more timid that she was in the last book but I appreciate
Most of this story I like Elena has her new life as an Angel and the Consort to an Archangle but there is so much to learn.
What I Enjoyed:Elena is a little more timid that she was in the last book but I appreciate that she has to grow into this new role.
A lot of this book is Elena learning how to deal with a very aggressive Raphael and how to be an Angel If that means going to school with the other young angels so be it.Illium was also a character I really enjoyed.
OKAY???I wanted to love this book.
Hell, after reading the first one in the series I even expected to love this book.
WHODAFUQ is this TSTL Mary Sue body snatcher that’s taken over her?And WHEREDAFUQ did the intriguing plotline go?And WHYDAFUQ is Raphael so disgustingly masochistic and self-sacrificing?
Unnecessary sexual TensionPurple prose involving the words fur, diamond, sea, sapphire or luscious.
Drip.”Hint at a potential plot lineCat fightDetailed description of a hawt dudeElena acting TSTLAncient angel secretsDaddy issuesHypocrisyCheesy conversation between male and female lead
Purple prose involving the words fur, diamond, sea, sapph-SONOFABITCH, I GET IT!
PLOT LINE?
WHAT PLOT LINE???Is that another female?
It was definitely worth the wait.In this book we get to see the vulnerability of Elena in relation to all the other angels in her new world.
I liked that though she tried to stand on her own she didn't fall into stupidity and refuse to listen to Raphael about her limitations as a new angel.I loved watching Elena's interactions with the Seven and all the new angels she encounters in the refuge.
I liked watching him try to reconcile his own personality with the care the new relationship needs.Speaking of breaking Elena, this book did a really good job with sexual tension.
I love Raphael and Elena, they are one of my all time fav characters and couples.
I didn't want to read this second story because I simply don't have enough time for other books that I need to read, but dang, it's just really such a good story that I cannot stop reading it.
And you know how it is, you say that you will then finish this second book but the reality is that I'm already reading the third book and it's driving me insane, I'm so weak when it comes to this series.
Hark! If 't be true thee has't not yet readeth the first 'r second booketh in this s'ries then begone from h're f'r spoileth'rs abound.  Elena wakes up from a coma and is thrust into a role she is unprepared for, that of being an angel. As if being involved with the archangel of NY does not come with enough problems, she has to now cope with being part of an entirely different race. Being an angel also comes with a sharp learning curve. Learning to fly. Fighting with wings. Angel history. Socia
She still has her “hunter born” skills, but for all other purposes she is a new born babe in the angel world and needs to navigate the shark infested waters with care to avoid becoming a victim.Secondly, Lijuan, the eldest living archangel has taken an interest in her and that is a very bad thing.
This book however reveals quite a bit more, so even though the romance is more prevalent, the balance was good and my fantasy monster was fed in due time and sufficiently.Overall a worthy second installment in this series.
Not the case here, and anytime you think different, their ageless view of life, and the fact that those endless eons, and their unfathomable power gives them a view of right and wrong that feels decidedly amoral from a human viewpoint.
Yes, I do know that Raphael loves Elena, and that he is violently possessive over her.
Good news, there is another book with their story, so I have a feeling I will get what I want in Archangel's Consort.Perhaps this would have been a five star book if I hadn't been so blown away by Angels' Blood.
Finallerime ayırmam gereken zamanı bu kitaba ayırdım.Pişman mıyım? Asla :)
I'm kind of totally over the alpha-animal-male-hero and tough-chicks-who-wear-thigh-high-leather-boots kind of literature, so it's a testament to this author that I really loved this book.
But I loved the first book in this series and the second one was equally enjoyable.
Even though this is definitely a romance book, and has a lot of genre tropes, I just always enjoy reading Nalini Singh.
Her books satisfy my hunger for trashy romance and paranormal knife-wielding heroines.
I can see her setting up other dudes in the series to find lovers in future spin-offs.
And yes, I will be reading :)
Yay. I think I liked this book better because Elena is more confident in herself and her relationship with Raphael.
Ever since the tragedy happened with her family, it seems like she's been adrift and has only a few friend she can truly count on.
I like that Raphael is all in on this and has become less austere.
Don't worry, he's still violent and all those other fun things he was in book 1.New angels to meet!
Lots of new angels and vampires in this book.
Elena is learning how to live in Raphael's works now and play the games of angel politics.
Second re-read: 09.09.16I still like it. It's not as good as the first book, not even close, but still... It's good. Good enough that I know that I'll do another re-read in the future... :PRe-read: 22.04.15
I'm in love with this book :)) Review to come
i am trash for this angel smut
First time round I gave it 4 Stars now it is worth 5 Stars.5 “We die...... We die together. That's the deal.” Stars. This book picks up shortly after the battle between Raphael and Uram. Where nearly both died but where Raphael used a loophole making Elena the first made angel in history. An angel with a mortal heart.Elena spent the last year in a coma and has to adjust to her new life. A life where her friends and family will die as she is no longer mortal. Elena is at the Refuge to get used
This book picks up shortly after the battle between Raphael and Uram.
Where nearly both died but where Raphael used a loophole making Elena the first made angel in history.
An angel with a mortal heart.Elena spent the last year in a coma and has to adjust to her new life.
But even in the sanctuary of the angels brings trouble and trouble is attracted to Elena and in this book, it is no different.
Raphael and Elena have been invited to China by the archangel Lijuan to celebrate Elena’s making.
-Raphael is becoming too mortal.
The story begins with Elena awakening from her coma after a year, learning she's now an angel, mated to Raphael.
And, Elena's memories of her family's devastation resurface throughout the story, sometimes at the most inopportune moments.
Yes, Elena and Raphael bring the heat but when things cool down, they've got to figure out the routine of being a couple while learning to trust one another.
We also learn so much more about angel "law" and the politics of the Archangels.
This was an exciting and interesting story and I'm now even more committed to continuing the series.
And I'm really glad that we get back to New York, and Elena's circle of friends, in the next book.Original review: I think I start every single review I do for Nalini Singh's books exclaiming how much she manages to impress me, how great it is, and how much I love it.
She deftly weaves multiple storylines together, builds interest in supporting characters, and gives yet more depth to Raphael and Elena.
One who doesn't know how to be an angel, and has to learn everything - even those things she once knew, like how to fight.
This was a great continuation of Nalini Singh's guild hunter series.
Elena awakes after a year-long coma having been transformed into an archangel by Rafael in order to save her life.
But now she must learn to live and fight in her new body--and fly, which is something of a disaster--all while the danger of LiTuan looms, an ancient archangel who has been raising the dead and wants Elena to die.
I loved the continued romance between Rafael and Elena, and it was also great to see more development with the secondary characters.
Nalini Singh has created a brilliant world of archangels and vampires, and every scene is richly drawn.
(view spoiler)[I'm glad the author wrote Elena's new existence as an evolving process, making her have to get used to wings and gain strength instead of just: poof! I'm an angel, immortal and can do everything! (hide spoiler)]I do think Elena has much too much sympathy for characters, like Michaela, that don't deserve any compassion. This mystery/problem wrapped up and there's a new conflict awaiting in the next book. Already started reading. I wish the library would release the dang audio copy!
(view spoiler)[I'm glad the author wrote Elena's new existence as an evolving process, making her have to get used to wings and gain strength instead of just: poof! I'm an angel, immortal and can do everything!  (hide spoiler)]I do think Elena has much too much sympathy for characters, like Michaela, that don't deserve any compassion. This mystery/problem wrapped up and there's a new conflict awaiting in the next book. Already started reading. I wish the library would release the dang audio copy! I'm #1 hold on 1 copy! Give it to me!!!! :)
Nalini Singh delivers this in ways you can’t imagine with Archangel’s Kiss, the second book in her Guild Hunter Novel series.
The first book, Angels Blood introduced vampire hunter Elena Deveraux, who lives in an alternate New York City universe where angels rule and are things of wonder to bow down to and be very afraid of.
The seductive and dangerous archangel that rules New York City, Raphael, is thousands of years old and has decided that Elena will be his new sexual pet.
The sensuality between Raphael and Elena is explosive and Nalini explains things she didn’t in Angels Blood.
When mysterious murders start to occur it is Elena who has the ability to track down the killer but can Raphael keep her safe?I loved the first book in this series (Angel's Blood) and was glad I already had a copy of Archangel's Kiss so I could continue Elena & Raphael's journey immediately.
I was glad to find out more about her past and the events that lead her to become a Guild Hunter and I loved seeing her slowly learn to trust Raphael and start to open up to him.The world Nalini Singh has created is rich in detail and easy to picture, although her angels are hardly the benevolent creatures they are usually portrayed as they are fascinating to read about and we learn a lot more about their hierarchy in this book.
February 2013 reread: Buddy read with Maru and SarahFavorite quote(among favorite quotes):"I'll never leave you, Elena." A glimpse of the archangel he was, used to power, to control.
"And I'll never let you go."Other women might've rebelled against such a claim, but Elena had never belonged to anyone.
.......................I like all Nalini Singhs books but I absolutely love her Guild Hunter series.
Elena and Raphael are great characters and the evolution of their relationship is eye-opening.This is a 5++* book!........................NEW READ: Every time I read this book I find new things to love in it.
It just amazes me that Nalini can write so special books.
There are a few things that differentiate a good book from a great book for me, minus the obvious one of a great plot, and those are: not only strong MCs but kickass secondary characters as well, details people DETAILS and no insta love.One of my biggest pet peeves is insta love.
Even though Raphael and Elena's situation was definitely more on the insta love side (view spoiler)[with him turning her into an angel and all (hide spoiler)] I actually didn't find it frustrating.
They still have a long way to go and I'm excited for watch their relationship progress.That brings me to my next point: kickass MCs AND SECONDARY CHARACTERS!
21/09/2016 Buddy read with the wonderful UF addicts over at BB&B  I invite you to the Forbidden City, Raphael. Come, let us welcome this human you have embraced. Let us see the beauty of this connection between immortal and what was once mortal. I find myself fascinated for the first time in millennia.~ Zhou Lijuan  Hunter-born Elena Deveraux has just woken from a year-long coma, finding herself instead of broken, an angel. But her body is frail and wings are a lot more difficult to control
Hunter-born Elena Deveraux has just woken from a year-long coma, finding herself instead of broken, an angel.
Archangel Raphael is used to be obeyed, and expects Elena to give him all the control in their relationship.
Raphael is still just as arrogant as always, but he’s slowly learning that being with Elena is about giving not just taking.
And I do love that he appreciates the gift Elena gave him, by making him a little mortal.
The angel politics continue to intrigue me, especially when you consider how little most things mean to them, except for their one supreme law (view spoiler)[children are not to be harmed.
The life and times of an angel made...Another winner from the Romance Package and a great opportunity to visit with my favourite hunter, angels, vampires and archangels.This instalment shows us that the strong can be temporarily incapacitated but can't be held down for long.
I'm thinking that a lot of those archangels have "issues".
I think the power has gone to their heads and they may have lost a few brain cells.I again enjoyed this narrator and found her easy to listen to and follow.I will definitely be listening to more in this series, especially if it's in the Romance Package.
An interesting sophomore installment in the Guild Hunter series. There were some things I liked (great secondary cast, interesting villains), and some things I really didn't like (too much detail on lady juices, some repetitive things)... but overall, I thoroughly enjoyed this one. I really want some wings of my own. :) And I want to hug some of these broken secondary characters.
With an unknown angel trying to become an Archangel by killing Elena and presenting her head to the Cadre and having Lijuan deadly fascination focused on her Elena has to fight to stay alive with her newly Made body, all with her old memories long suppressed giving her bloody nightmares.This was a fantastic follow up to “Angels Blood” in fact I very much think that this book is better.
WOW!
This is PNR at its absolute best!So well-written, well-developed, a shade macabre, very sensual, and completely swoon-worthy.
If you haven't read this yet, I urge you to get on it!
:-)Raphael and Elena's journey continues after the 'life-altering' events of book 1.
If I was smitten with the story before, I'm now thrilled with the direction the story took.
Everything about this series appeals to my romantic, adventure-loving nature, especially Elena's need to maintain her sense of self in the shadow of the overwhelmingly powerful presence that is Raphael.
"I'd be stupid not to be afraid.
Starting book 3 immediately...
