https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35480518-the-female-persuasion
Wolitzer has captured the recent history of feminism, in breadth more than depth, showcasing discussions on everything from abortion rights to the wage gap, and from porn to rape culture.It all begins on a college campus where the shy Greer Kadetsky attends a talk by influential feminist, Faith Frank.
It felt like lots of conversations were had between the characters but, other than offering a platform to discuss all the hot feminist topics, I didn't get the point of the story.
I can tell you what all the pieces are--the complexity of female friendship, the joy and danger of female mentorship, what it means to do good--and yet I didn't finish this book feeling like I'd seen any new insight, felt a deep kinship with the characters, or seen my experience or the experiences of others I know reflected back at me.Much of the book takes place around a setpiece of privileged women gathering, paying a ridiculous ticket price, listening to women deliver inspirational messages, with manicure stations and fancy food all around.
Audiobook ....read by Rebecca Lowman.....[ one of my very favorite voice narrators]The Audiobook is over 14 hours long - but the more we get to know Greer Kadetsky and Faith Frank....Cory and Zee.....the more I wanted to continue hanging out for this party ride.
The characters and dialogues were my favorite parts of this book.
I liked the relationships - some funny stories ( go-go dancing in Vegas girls?).....etc.
I also loved the whole college atmosphere—and the background stories of the college kids and their families.
I loved the parts about modern feminism.
I loved this book and everything it represents!
4 idiosyncratic enthusiastic stars!The Female Persuasion is one of those novels that felt flawed, but that I still really enjoyed reading.
She ends up being very drawn to an older well known feminist — Faith Frank — seeking to get meaning out of working for Frank’s foundation.
There are a few other characters who play a big role in Greer’s life — a long term boyfriend, a best friend and Frank’s onetime lover who funds the foundation.
There are no answers or messages — although there are many moments of interesting reflection.I suspect that The Female Persuasion won’t work for readers looking for a crisp story or clear meaning.
(oh Slowy)In contrast, for me Greer, ok....notably "uncomfortable in the world", searching for direction and purpose in life showed ambition as well as selfishness in the form of betrayal as she continued along the cure misogyny path.Unfortunately, for me I became bored with her job, her connection to women's activist Faith Frank and whole women's rights movement....not that it's not important....its just old news that was (whew!) drawn out way beyond my allotted attention span for this novel.Using books as an antidepressant though....that's a good one Greer!Well defined characters, yes; and "The meaning and uses of power"....I get that, but the overdone subject matter....that turned THE FEMALE PERSUASION into a long, average ho-hum read for me..
I doubted I'd ever be someone who had "favorite authors," but this settles it. Meg Wolitzer is at the top of that list.
Simply put: it's a boring book. No real human insights beyond the lightly refreshing sparkling zinfandel struggles of rich white people. Cory was the only character that faced real problems and his story is totally sidelined, for the way-too-convenient success story of a young woman who's life falls into fantastically perfect place due to no real effort of her own.Dues ex machina all over the place. Reads like a dense literary Disney story. Suffers from the negative aspects of both dense literary stories, and Disney stories at the same time. Surprisingly.
Of course, we learn this from the point of view of the characters limited by their circumstances.
The story is narrated from different points of view but the character we spent the most time with is Greer Kadetsky.
Her search for meaningful work and the disappointments she encounters along the way.
The point at which Greer's life changes is when she meets Faith Frank and becomes inspired by her speech and ideals.
A few years later, Greer starts working with Faith and, I would say, this is where the novel became interesting to me.
Overall, this is a well-written novel with engaging characters and backstories.
Zee and Cory are the most interesting characters here, but the novel provides easy ways out for all characters, eliding any real development or tough decisions.The most frustrating part of all is that, for all the supposedly progressive and feminist ideas and themes present here, The Female Persuasion is terribly antiquated in its politics.
Faith Frank and her foundation, the poorly named Loci (which the novel draws attention to but that only heightens how awkward it is), is mentioned to be under attack from more radical feminists for not being intersectional or being too privileged, which it is, but The Female Persuasion makes vague points that the foundation helps, which may be true, but it feels like it shrugging off any responsibility.
“The Female Persuasion” is most of all a character-driven book about feminism in our modern world.
However, to me it felt like the book was too character-driven and not enough was happening.
The people changed, yes, but their development was very similar to the development of feminism: two steps forward, one step back.
By the end of the book, you wonder where things were really going all along the way, and to me, reading this book and following these characters felt like one hopeless circle that you never seem to break away from.
⭐⭐⭐⭐💫 / 5 rounded upThe Female Persuasion is my first book by Meg Wolitzer but it will definitely not be my last! Even though it wasn't what I expected I really enjoyed it. The Female Persuasion focuses mostly on a woman named Greer who we are introduced to while she is going to college at Ryland, a college in Connecticut. We follow her through her life until she is middle-aged, while also skipping around to other characters like her college boyfriend Cory, and her mentor Faith Frank, among othe
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️💫 / 5 rounded upThe Female Persuasion is my first book by Meg Wolitzer but it will definitely not be my last!
We follow her through her life until she is middle-aged, while also skipping around to other characters like her college boyfriend Cory, and her mentor Faith Frank, among others.
I loved reading about the characters in this book and I felt as though this book is more about the characterization than the actual plot.
The blurb makes it sound more like it is just about the mentor/mentee relationship, but there was a lot more to it then that.
It pains me to say this, but for a book purporting to be about contemporary feminism this feels superficial, undercooked and really quite boring.
And the neat-and-tidy ending has a vaguely Disney air about it.
Wolitzer does make some sharp and witty observations but they're too few and far between to liven this up in the way it needs.
It almost feels like the book wants to be nice so as not to upset the conventional status quo too much.
By the time Greer gets her happy ending, I was skim-reading with gritted teeth...
Not a promising first date for me and Wolitzer, then.
I was lucky to have an early read of this funny, important and intelligent novel about what it means to be a human of the female persuasion in our complicated world. The characters here are compelling, their struggles are real, and Wolitzer's fundamental love of them is always in evidence. This novel manages to cover some of the most important issues of our day in all their complexity without ever sacrificing story--masterful and entertaining at the same time. I highly, highly recommend.
Greer is captivated by Faith, and after graduation goes to work for her, interviewing women for their stories and writing speeches.
But once again things didn’t work out as planned for either Greer or Cory.
Everyone else, all the people who just quietly go and do what they’re supposed to do, and don’t get a lot of credit for it, and don’t have someone out there every day telling them they’re doing an awesome job.”REVIEWTHE FEMALE PERSUASION is a novel about a young woman who is trying to find her place in the world.
We meet Greer in the beginning: she's a scholastic girl who likes to read a lot of books and definitely different from her parents who do odd jobs and don't even make dinner for her.
Faith is the face of women empowerment and Greer is overwhelmed by how inspiring Faith is to her.
Greer ends up reaching out for a job and we watch her go through ups and downs and make choices in her life, both good and bad.
2. I think the female ambition in this book was inspiring at times.So why the 3 star rating?
DAMMIT. As if I needed another reason to obsess over the state of the world, feminism, grief, etc, here comes this book and makes me sit and THINK about everything instead of happily escaping into the void of cute dog videos.
However, when Greer's friend Zee informs Greer about Faith Frank's status as a feminist icon and her speaking event at their college, Greer takes a chance, goes and sees Faith, and disrupts the course her life had been on before.I felt so moved by some of the ideas and relationships in The Female Persuasion, even though the book never completely came together for me.
Meg Wolitzer portrayed the inspiring parts and the perils of mentorship through Faith and Greer's relationship, as well as the solidarity and potential difficulties of female friendship through the bond between Greer and Zee. Though at first I detested Cory, his growth actually made me tear up by the end of the novel, as his character represented a beautiful reversal of toxic masculinity in the face of tragedy.
But, here the supporting characters backstories were part of the narrative and sections were devoted to learning about each one; the story was split into 4 parts: The Strong Ones; Twin Rocket Ships; I Get To Decide; and, Outside Voices.
I enjoyed getting to know these characters and will miss them a bit.The title can throw you off; I didn’t think this was a book about feminism really, but of people finding their way and learning that what they know – or want to believe – isn’t always as it seems.If you attended the B&N Book Club event, let me know how it went!
Truly hated the way this woman writes but I had to read this for work. I was told this book was relevant to the me too movement but it doesn't really seem that way. Blegh. If you're looking for a better feminist read that will actually get you thinking read The Power by Naomi Alderman.
***NO SPOILERS***The complicated and emotionally fraught topic of feminism is the theme of Wolitzer’s newest novel, The Female Persuasion.
Other prominent characters round out the story in meaningful ways.To be clear, Wolitzer didn’t make her own statement about feminism the way she might have if this were nonfiction.
The many engaging storylines could be what’s best about The Female Persuasion, but it’s hard to say, because Wolitzer’s characterization is marvelous, with each main character fully developed and true-to-life, always speaking and acting naturally.
It’s this that really makes The Female Persuasion a rewarding reading experience.
Female Persuasion calls out the privilege of white & performative feminism throughout the story (and especially when Greer's femtor Faith Frank comes into play), yet I think the book still falls into that same trap by the end.
Maybe I missed something, but at no point did Greer end up striking me as my next feminist hero-- in fact, I didn't really find her that redeemable at the end at all because it didn't seem like she'd learned or grown from what happened to her in the second half of the book?
The main storyline follows Greer, a hardworking but unassuming college student who becomes inspired by an aging feminist icon named Faith Frank (modeled after second-wave feminists like Gloria Steinem).
After graduation, Faith hires Greer, but Cory and Zee (Greer’s boyfriend and best friend) find their lives moving in less exciting directions.
Wolitzer is witty in a way that’s never precious, and I love how she uses third-person narration to subtly reflect each character’s psyche without judgment.
The result is a novel that’s wonderfully insightful about power dynamics, personal and professional compromises, and the unpredictable trajectories of life.
This book follows Greer's journey through college and young adulthood, where she explores her relationships and ambitions.Told using multiple points of view, but most of the story is from Greer's POV.
Her boyfriend is at another school, and she's a little lonely and lost at the onset of the story.
As she makes friends and gets involved in college, she starts to learn a little more about herself and develop a desire to get more involved with women's rights.
I find it interesting that the most intriguing character in a book about women, was a man.This contemporary novel addresses some relevant topics, including feminism, privilege, and rape culture.
While I really liked the thoughts in this book I didn't really get what the author wanted to say? The plot was all over the place but I enjoyed it nevertheless sooooI guess I liked it and I guess this is 3 stars worth
The Female Persuasion is the story of two women, Greer Kadestsky, who is at the beginning of her social, political, and intellectual journey—and Faith Frank, who is in full, mature bloom.
LOCI is Faith's second chance, after her feminist magazine, Bloomer folds, having long ago lost its relevance in the face of more penetrating third and fourth waves of feminism.
Millennials navigate jobs and love and sex and identity, competition in an age of low expectations, and the contradictions of the personal and the political.It is a clash of ideals v reality that give The Female Persuasion its plot twists, and have this reader twisted around looking over her own shoulder.
However, I don't want to think about it any more so I'm going to keep this a short and sweet as possible.From a literary perspective - good god.
From a story perspective - I've never seen so much detail written about a character and still have no idea and NO CONNECTION to the character.
However, as I read a Goodreads review, "can anyone tell me what the Faith Frank character said that was interesting or awe-inspiring?" It read more like a silly, young teen girls' novel.
Never read Wolitzer before.
Not inclined to read her again.
•In the case of THE FEMALE PERSUASION, I’m happy to say that some of the hype was warranted......as in, I listened to the audio version of the book and was thoroughly entertained and invested throughout the entire LONG story.
See, that’s the problem ~ when EVERY list and magazine on earth tells me THIS is the book to read, I expect NO ISSUES.
Issues that for a book with less hype I probably wouldn’t even mention.•BOTTOM LINE 〰️ I definitely recommend it to anyone looking for a contemporary women’s fiction story with themes of feminism and friendship.
I loved the listening experience and definitely recommend the audio version.
I read this book because Meg Wolitzer came to our feminist book club at Goodreads; it was such a unique experience to have the author participate in a book club meeting about their own book!
This was my first novel by this author, and I was surprised at how much I enjoyed it.
Although the story went off on a lot of tangents-- some more enjoyable and impactful than others-- the book explored the interesting and important themes of friendship, self-actualization, feminism, power, and family dynamics, and I really enjoyed the masterful characterization and exquisite writing.
I will definitely be reading The Interestings soon since it's been sitting on my shelf for far too long.
This delicious and compulsive read that feels like your first high school infatuation~ Remember when you first love - romantic or respect - which you knew so intimately; better than they understood themselves?
That's what this book gives you - its exposed and unrelenting honest portrayal of its characters.
I couldn't put it down, and only was sad when it ended because I enjoyed the read beyond wanting a to see it all nicely tied up in the ending.I think the story will connect with readers on multiple levels.
It uniquely relates to shared experiences, but will be understood for vastly different reasons- that's a good book!
Despite Greer's conviction that she is unable to speak up for herself (her belief that she has only an "indoor voice" but no "outdoor voice" is a theme throughout her part of this book), she, Zee, and a couple of other victims of the same guy push for him to be punished, which serves as a sort of feminist awakening for Greer.
Greer asks a question, and ends up being given Faith's business card along with an invitation to stay in touch.
And then back and forth between Greer, Cory, Zee, and Faith yet again.
Then it just ends, four years after Greer's/Cory's/Zee's graduation from college, with an epilogue following a couple years after that.
