https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/296298.The_Guns_of_Navarone

داستان" توپ های ناواران " داستان فداکاری و هوشیاری گروهی کوچک است که ضربه ای را به دشمن وارد می کند.
شخصیت‌های اصلی، همواره مردانی مقاوم، معتقد به خدا؛ پایبند به اخلاق و تسلیم ناپذیرند.2000 سرباز گرسنه بیمار انگلیسی در جزیره ای موسوم به « خرس » در آب های یونان گرفتار شده اند و تنها راه دسترسی به این جزیره از طریق تنگه ناوارون است ولی نیروهای آلمانی که کنترل ناوارون را در دست دارند با نصب دو توپ غول پیکر راه عبور رزم ناوهای انگلیسی را مسدود کرده اند.

The young Stevens is proficient in German and Greek is also a great climber, but is afraid of his fear.
They have 3 days to scale the sheer 400 foot cliffs on the southern side of Navarone, destroy the guns, and get out before the British fleet sails into the Aegean channel to fortify the trapped soldiers.
But the Navarone fortress proves to be as great of a challenge as the cliffs.
His writing is fast paced with a great detail that does not bough down the story line.
In my opinion, the 1961 movie Guns of Navarone just put faces to these wonderful characters.

The story is based on the Battle of Leros, and Leros island's coastal artillery guns – among the largest naval artillery guns used during World War II – that were built and used by the Italians until Italy capitulated in 1943 and subsequently used by the Germans until their defeat."I have seen the film version a few times but found the book more interesting, in part because the reader is given the thoughts of various characters along the way which changed my feeling about some of them.
In the book, all the characters are male - I can understand why the 2 natives of Navarone were changed to women in the movie but the story makes more sense this way.
I saw the movie on TV back in the 1960s.
Quinn, Peck, and Niven made for an all-star cast.
Finally, I read the novel.
Well, sir, I'm happy to report that Alistair MacLean could tell the corker of a tale.
The Allied saboteurs come through lots of close shaves still intact.
At times their heroics leave you rolling your eyes a little, but the fun is watching them strive to carry out their desperate mission.
There are betrayals.
I found myself looking forward to getting back to reading the war tale which isn't my usual cup of tea.
This is one of the books that took me at the edge of my seat. The action felt so real. I'm thankful that a friend recommended this to me.
These five men are all experts at various specialties required by the commando operation, including demolitions, engineering, and most provocatively, mountain climbing since access to the fortress is impossible without scaling a sheer cliff face.Even though the Greek island of Navarone does not actually exist, the story takes place within the real historical context of the “Dodecanese Campaign”, (specifically the Battle of Leros), the Allies' attempt to capture the German-held Greek islands in the Aegean Sea in 1943.
Only the second novel by Alistair Maclean, this 1957 World War II novel has been considered a classic of the genre for decades now.
There are some scumbag Germans to be found here, but the meeting for the Alpinekorps lieutenant and Mallory is pretty good stuff.
Very good stuff all around.I felt like I was following the action pretty well until the final escape, at which point either I lost my ability to comprehend things or the narrative became much more confusing as far as how all of the characters got back together and sailed away.
When I was 12 or so, one of my friends at school (Michael Edworthy) used to bring this book along every day as a sort of badge along with his Who and Yes albums.
We were all careful never to mention the book in case he went on about it like he did about the bands.
Intrigued, I bought a copy and read the first of the many Alistair MacLean books I was to devour.
But, as is so often the case, the book is even better than the film.Oh, and I adapted it many times for English essays so my O'Level grade A is down to this plot.
As thrilling and two fistedly action packed as you'd expect a war story that has maintained its popularity for so long to be. This has undeniably two dimensional but still entertaining characters, a wonderful variety of life it death scenarios (mountain climbing, storms at sea, gun fights against impossible odds) and a solid plot that holds it all together nicely.
finally read this classic tale of heroism. action packed. very well plotted. recommended :-) :-)
Book bum club #1A Book for all Seasons topic: Book became a movie
Nope; turns out it's an obscure Scottish term literally meaning "to make sure," relevant here as the character shooting was Scottish (like MacLean himself).Along with Ulysses, Navarone was also one of MacLean's few books to have no female characters - generally a plus in his case as he was NOT a strong writer of female roles.
(Also in the movie, the very American character of Dusty Miller was unfortunately played by the very British David Niven - never a good casting choice.)There's still a lot of unread MacLean out there - including his last book of the 60's, Puppet on a Chain, which I may or may not have read before.
To Captain Keith Mallory, skilled saboteur and trained mountaineer, falls the task of leading the small party to scale the vast, impossible precipice of Navarone to blow up the guns.The novel is set during the World War II at a time when the balance of things in the Turkish coast across the Aegean lies in a thin balance.
The sequences when the team is stuck and the way they come out of those situations, it was as if Alistair Maclean had himself orchestrated the war.Overall, if you take The Guns of Navarone, know that you have a classic in your hands.
The novel takes place in the course of three days during World War II.
Which makes these characters for me both more sympathetic and more heroic than the cool he-man counterparts in the genre I've read so far.
Not only does MacLean have a fairly strong prose style, he understands that the principle of a good suspense plot is "and then it got worse." It's a suspenseful novel that's a quick read, a real page turner.
But this is a good read, and if you're drawn to military fiction, this is certainly a well-done example of that genre.
He estado a punto de dejar de leerlo dos veces y eso que suelo acabar todo lo que empiezo.
pero no sé si ha sido que el público es distinto o la traducción o qué, pero vaya coñazo.Grupo de sabotaje en Grecia durante la segunda Gran Guerra, suena interesante y la historia, lo es.
Las aventuras que corren tienen su punto de tensión e interés pero no está bien escrito.
Las auto arengas del equipo de asalto me han quemado mucho: todos son grandes soldados, grandes muchachos...
La perfección de los buenos, la maldad del malvado y la narrativa exaltada de la guerra cansan mucho.
exaltación del ejercito y los hombres de acción.
The Guns of Navarone is one of my favorite books, and is a classic World War II adventure novel.
I’ve seen the movie and listened to the audiobook as well, and they don’t disappoint.
The interaction between British commando Captain Mallory and former Greek Lieutenant Colonel Andrea is captivating as the team endeavors to operate behind enemy lines, subvert the Germans, and ultimately, target the devastating guns of Navarone.
What I enjoy most about the book – which is something I find in MacLean’s other novels as well – is the straightforward storyline, no nonsense characters, and readable prose.
Some may say that this book is outdated, in my opinion great writing is never out dated, MacLean is one of the best. I loved this book,I did't want to put it down. It's a tense wartime thriller with a story that's believable, with fascinating characters. MacLean tells the story in a way that draws you in. My heart was beating faster as Miller scaled the unclimbed cliff face. You feel the wind, rain and the spirit numbing cold. As this group of men strive to accomplish an impossible task, you find yourself wanting to know more about them.
Another one I read in high school after seeing the movie a couple dozen times. A good example of decent source material elevated in the adaptation—an effective but fairly standard thriller that was turned into one of the most thrilling and morally serious meditations on war in the twentieth century. NB—Avoid the sequel, Force 10 from Navarone, at all costs. It’s the only sequel MacLean ever wrote and it’s apparent why.
For those of us of a certain age, any stories of daring British Commandos in action during WWII are almost like comfort food in their appeal.War should NEVER be glorified or sought after in any way, however, a story about the exploits of a few courageous souls trying to shorten a conflict and prevent the deaths of thousands of others, is worth being told, as a reminder of what it really means to be human....
A four star rating based entirely on how much I loved it when I was fourteen. This was the favourite book of all the boys in grade eight back in the day. Action! Only a small group of men might succeed in destroying the German stronghold that was pinning down the Allied navy in the Aegean! How awesome is that!?
Just revisited this one after many years away. It holds up well. Still one of the very best adventure novels I've ever read. I appreciated the quality of the writing more this time around. Flows like a river in full flood. Truly, a ripping yarn.
Very suspenseful World War II novel.
এই সব কলাসিক বইয়ের রিভিউ হয় না বনধুগন। পড়ে ফেলতে হয়। :D
এই সব ক্লাসিক বইয়ের রিভিউ হয় না বন্ধুগন। পড়ে ফেলতে হয়। :D
Another foray into the past with one of the masters of thriller/adventure novels.
Wonderful :) Beautifully plotted, charactered, and twisted. Cannot speak too well of this one; highly recommend.
Sudah gitu, di sampul belakang tidak ada sinopsisnya, cuma endorsement dari surat kabar di Inggris Raya (yang jelas pasti sudah lama banget, berhubung copyright novel ini tahun 1957), yang sama sekali tidak memberikan gambaran tentang apa novel ini sebenarnya:Jalan ceritanya lancar dan mudah diikuti...
Buku ini menjadi awal dari novel-novel Alistair MacLean lainnya, serta penulis-penulis sejenis, dari Jack Higgins, Frederick Forsyth, sampai Tom Clancy.Jadi, tentang apa buku ini sebenarnya?Pada zaman dahulu kala, di era Perang Dunia II pada tahun 1943, saat kepulauan Yunani dikuasai Jerman, tersebutlah sebuah pulau bernama Navarone.
The campaign represents the last significant German victory in the war.A special team of five commandos attempts to storm the insurmountable cliffs of Navarone to destroy two massive German guns (theorized as 12-inch cannons) that are radar-controlled and capable of obliterating destroyer-sized warships with a single shot.
Nominated for seven Academy Awards and winner of the award for Special Effects (deservedly so), the film's story line is altered for time compression and continuity sake even though it still runs for two hours and 36 minutes.
Having read the book first, I found it difficult to place Gregory Peck and David Niven as the two protagonists, but I understand the need for star power at the time of the filming.
"There are no brave men and cowardly men in the world, my son. There are only brave men. To be born, to live, to die - that takes courage enough in itself, and more than enough. We are all brave men and we are all afraid, and what the world calls a brave man, he too, is brave and afraid like all the rest of us. Only he is brave for five minutes longer."
