https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27.Neither_Here_nor_There
Bryson at his worst. He is the whining American tourist he claims to detest. Meandering through a dozen or so european countries, he manages to complain about virtually every hotel accomodation. And for christ sake Bill, put a freakin map in your book. I'm not totally ignorant when it comes to european geography but if youre gonna write about travelling hundreds of miles every other day, i'd like to glance at the route with out having to bust out my world atlas.After Shorthistoryof nearly everything i was so high on him, now this...
I'm a fan of Bill Bryson.I'm not a fan of the complaining, whingeing, swilling pleb who wrote this travel book.
But I do feel a little ripped off only because I know how interesting a Bill Bryson book can be.
There's no history in this book, there's no culture, there is very little interesting stories.
Why does it always rain when I travel?
So I ate a burger and complained to the workers there about their weird foreign McDonalds burgers.The next day I walked 10 miles to a rich principality.
This book hits the sweet spot: Bill Bryson travels around Europe, entertaining us with his humor and thoughtful observations, and also sharing memories of a similar trip he took in the 1970s with his bumbling friend, Stephen Katz.Ah, poor Stephen.
(That isn't even a complete list, but you get the idea -- he literally traveled from one end of Europe to the other.)While in Istanbul, Bryson decides he is finally ready to return to England:"I had come to the end of my own road.
I took a walk and was merrily following along, until, at about one third of the way through, a thought flashed through my mind—This book sucks!
I'm sorry to say this, Bill, but this book is not very good.To put it briefly, Bryson comes across as extremely immature in this book, both as a writer and as a person.
In chronological order, of Bryson's books I've read Neither Here nor There (1993), Notes from a Small Island (1995), A Walk in the Woods (1998), In a Sunburned Country (2000), and A Short History of Nearly Everything (2003).
Stifling belly laughs can be painful and the resulting noise sounds like something between strangling an aardvark and air rapidly escaping from a balloon.The benefits: Fellow commuters won’t look you in the eye and go out of their way to avoid you, so I practically have the whole train car to myself.This is one of Bryson’s earlier books, so it’s long on humor, random observations and anecdotes, and short on insight.
He comes off as a lightweight Paul Theroux; however, I was in the mood for laughs and there are plenty contained here.My previous Bryson book was A Walk in the Woods, so it was nice to hear more about everyone’s nightmare travelling companion, Stephen Katz, even it was via flashback.
Everyone else in the class was building things like cedar chests and oceangoing boats and getting to play with dangerous and noisy power tools, but I had to sit at the Basics Table with Tubby Tucker and a kid who was so stupid that I don't think we ever learned his name.
So eventually I would zip up and return unrelieved to the table [in the restaurant:], and spend the night back at the hotel doing a series of Niagara Falls impressions."Bryson does not mince words, and his perspective on former Austrian president Waldheim echoes mine but is perhaps more trenchant.
It takes a special kind of people to stand behind a man like that.”
Huh. Turns out Bryson is a dirty ol' bugger!This travel-across-Europe journal is fun, educational and entertaining.
I love travel and I like learning about far-off places.
Regardless of when the reminisces come from, details ring true from the experiences I've had of the same places, such Paris and parts of Italy.
However, it was cool to get his take on the place.
At times he gets a little grumpy, but overall this is lighthearted and goodnatured.
Somewhere out there some sad sod is thinking, "I wonder what gets boring, bald and wrinkled old Phil from accounting off?" But that's not me...not yet anyhow.
This book was highly entertaining at times, I can't say it wasn't.
In fact, it was highly entertaining most of the time.
I am simply trying to say Bryson's book was not what I was expecting and did not give me what I look for in reading travel novels (I like to get a grasp of what different places are like, the ambience, the people, maybe a little history).
Also, it was about a year ago that I read this book, and I am sure some of these tidbits were woven into his writing.
The reason I read this book is because there have been some excellent extracts from it in the course books I teach from.
I've never quite understood the point of travelling and then asking for 'something that would pass for food in America' to eat.Furthermore, the chapter structure became a little tiresome after a while: the routine of arrive, find hotel, have steaming hot shower/bath, wander round town, have something to eat was rarely deviated from.Perhaps this book was considered quite differently at the time of publishing, before the era of cheap flights meant Europe was easily accessible to all.
Why bother to actually travel when you can just regurgitate stereotypes that have been passed around since man invented borders?
I have never read any of his travel stuff where he actually meets an interesting person who has something worth saying.
When I first read this several years ago I just figured that it was the first thing Bryson wrote, perhaps when he was a college student packbacking around Europe.
I like most of his non-travel books just so you won't think that I have it in for this guy.
He just seems to hate to travel and he despises everyone he meets along the way.
Big time.Bill Bryson is as funny as ever; you can't avoid guffawing at some of his observations: but this is a book-long exercise in sarcasm.
We are treated to pages and pages of descriptions of the dreary hotels the author stayed in (it seems that he cannot find one meeting his exacting standards anywhere), the bad and expensive food he had to stomach (except Mac Donald's, of course), the totally unappealing people he had to deal with and (towards the middle of the book) his pornographic dreams which run as subtext in stream-of-consciousness.
Either the city has drastically changed in two decades, or it shows different faces to the entitled, holier-than-thou American and the inquisitive Indian, on the lookout for fresh experiences.Give this book a miss.
Bryson's other books are better.
Occasionally his humor is a bit over-the-top, but I love it anyway!When Bill Bryson was in college he toured Europe with his friend Stephen Katz.
In this book, Bryson is much older, married with kids, and follows in basically the same footsteps, in a sense trying to recreate his earlier tour.
And his remarks are usually steeped in humor; he knows how to turn lemons into lemonade.What did I learn from this book?
I will avoid gypsies, especially the kids.
Communism is an economic system to avoid.This book kept me entertained; most definitely!
Bill Bryson himself narrates his book, and he is great!
On my first trip to Paris, I kept wondering: 'Why does everyone hate me so much?'....The other thing I have never understood about the French is why they are so ungrateful.
I've always felt that since it was us that liberated them--because let's face it, the French Army couldn't beat a girls' hockey team--they ought to give all Allied visitors to the country a book of coupons good for free drinks in Pigalle and a ride to the top of the Eiffel Tower.
They should thank us and give us free things?
It's the same thinking that caused people (who had never been to Paris) to tell me prior to my trip abroad that French people hate Americans.
In this book travel writer Bill Bryson wrote about a whirlwind trip through Europe that seemed designed solely to give him something to write about rather than a journey he actually wanted to take.
The book is also heavy with sexual innuendos, has numerous comments about prostitutes, describes lots of excessive drinking, and contains 'dirty' language that's off-putting in the context of a light-hearted travel story (and I'm no prude).
‘Notes from a Small Island’ and ‘Neither Here nor There’ are Bill Bryson’s early travelogues concerning his journeys through Britain and other European countries respectively.Both of these books are the strongest and the funniest of Bryson’s earliest work and undoubtedly established his reputation (at that time) as a travel writer and commentator of repute, producing engaging and very entertaining travelogues.
Sure, some parts were funny, but it wasn't the sort to make your belly hurt and make you cry.
I can sum up the book with this: Mr. Bryson goes from one country to another and:1.
Finds himself a hotel.
2. Finds a restaurant/bar.
Finds it expensive and/or food is terrible.
Always finds flaws here and there.
4. Finds himself in a crowded train station, and again complains about the long queues.
Not one part of the book gave me the sense of excitement; which I believe it should have!
It is a book about traveling anyway...
Overall I enjoyed reading this travel memoir.
If I was actually from any of the countries he traveled to I think I would have dropped his book in the nearest garbage can as soon as I read the first paragraph of his visit to my country.
Lucky for me I am Canadian and could read on with mild annoyance.
If you have enjoyed his writing in the past or if you yourself are slightly or even very racist you will enjoy this book.
Amusing enough, along the lines of The Innocents Abroad: or, The New Pilgrims' Progress, but of course Mark Twain's version is far more amusing. Some funny observations about various places and people throughout Europe, many of which, nay, most of which he did not like or enjoy. Tries too hard for the laugh. Stick with the original:
I find Bryson a very skilful author, easy to read, enjoyable while it lasts and then completely forgettable.
It is an OK, middle of the road, Bryson effort.
The middle of the road is where Bryson aspires to be, and that is the key to his writing.
In it's own way it is almost perfect writing, demonstrating a consistently easy facility.
It is the literary equivalent of easy listening, perfectly providing the experience of having a pleasant time without actually engaging the reader in a substantive way.This book is neither enlightening nor informative, I would recommend Notes from a Small Island as the best example of his work.
Neither here Nor there: Travels in Europe من هامرفاست على حدود القارة المتجمدة الشمالية وحتى إسطنبول
The Daily Telegraph summed this book up perfectly: ‘Hugely funny (not snigger-snigger funny but great-big-belly-laugh-till-you-cry funny)’.
There were a few parts where I honestly could not stop laughing for the life of me and felt pain in my stomach and had tears rolling down my cheeks.
Here’s one example of his visit to Istanbul, “The one truly unbearable thing in the city is the Turkish pop music.
If you can imagine a man having a vasectomy without anaesthetic to a background accompaniment of frantic sitar-playing, you will have some idea of what popular Turkish music is like.” As with all of Bill Bryson’s travelogues, I’m so sorry that it ended.
This happened to me numerous times; whether it be laughing hysterically with my Italian friend as she agreed with Italian stereotypes or asking my Mum about her 1975 European travels to places mentioned in the book.
In fact – you’re going to like this – they came back with eighty-one men, because they made a friend along the way.”I was happy Bryson’s old mate, Stephen Katz, got a few mentions too – these were always laugh-out-loud funny and kind of made me wish Katz had been accompanying him on this adventure too - though I feel only one of them would’ve survived!
Bryson is hilarious (no question about it), he travels the best way possible (solo) and he's always cheerful as a summer morning (yes, even when he complains about stuff, it's all in good humor).
It's what makes us feel good and occasionally make fools of ourselves by laughing hysterically (you know, laugh, when you open your mouth and show your teeth even if you don't intend to stuff your face with a huge-ass burger?).Loosen up a bit, people, get out of the country for a while and stop taking life so fucking seriously.
I listened to it on CD, and the writing was so predictable that I found myself completing each sentence before it was spoken.
But the book wasn't just boring, it was also embarrassingly bad.
I was a huge Bill Bryson fan in high school.
But I think if I went back and read that book, I would find it just as obnoxious, boring, and lame.
He is so self-deprecating as to make it obvious that he actually has a huge ego that he's trying to conceal so the audience will like him.
I wish I had never listened to his book, because my opinion of him is forever tainted.
You know the canonical essay question, "If you could meet anyone in history, who would it be?" My answer is Bill Bryson. He's a treasure. I'd love to watch him write. I imagine him tugging scraps of paper from him pockets, pawing through notes, scribbling a few sentences through the haze of pipe smoke, and chuckling a bit before pulling out more notes. He's hilarious. He commands the English language like Pele commands a soccer ball, etching metaphors that resonate and wonder why you didn't think of it first.
I simply cannot read this book anywhere in public, because I just collapse with laughing, and people stare. You really have to enjoy Bryson's snarky sense of humor to get him; otherwise I could see how he would strike some people as whiny. When he loves a place, he really loves it, but if there is something to be exasperated about, he will let you know. I enjoy this as much as Mark Twain's The Innocents Abroad, for the same kind of snarky humor.
Приятен пътепис, но не ми допадна това, че Брайсън е голямо мрънкало.
Времето из Скандинавието било лошо през март (невероятно!), немският език му пречел да си поръча храна, валяло, било скучно и т.н.
От друга страна обаче ми се видя доста обективен в описанията си.
Някои от забележките му са все така актуални 25 години след написването на книгата.С нетърпение очаквах една от последните глави - тази за София.
С много тъга и доста точно е описал ситуацията ни в началото на прехода, даже е уловил някои "болести", които още ни мъчат.
Бил Брайсън явно е българин.
Bryson is one of the funniest travel writers around, and this book is no exception, even if it's a little dated. Revisiting the places he first explored as a young backpacker, Bryson travels the European continent this time with a decidedly more adult approach. Plenty of laugh out loud moments are sprinkled throughout this book. If you are anything like me, Bryson's stories will have you thinking it's about time to drag out that suitcase again for your own European adventure.
Bill Bryson is amazing. He captures the essence of the peculiarities of travel.. of people in general. I read this before going to London (also read Noted from a Small Island- about England which was also excellent).. If you've traveled or want to travel, it's a great little book full of entertaining short stories. I read part of the 'Belgium' chapter to my grandmother (she's from Antwerp) and she nearly went off her rocker. No really, she almost fell off her chair laughing. :o) I recommend.
Neither Here Nor There,, my second Bryson book (the other one was similar but focused on traveling through the US), reads smoothly and seems like a pretty good place for potential Bryson fans to start.
Bryson is kind of like your uncle if your uncle was Chuck Klosterman in 2040 and very concerned about beer and hotels and people cutting in front of him in line.
I suppose I would have bought into the book more if I had actually been to most of the places Bryson travels; the Rome chapter was probably my favorite in part because I recognized some of the landmarks from a previous visit.
