https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/899962.Curious_George_Goes_to_the_Hospital
This is much much improved from the first book. Still some things that have aged poorly, but George is in great form and his adventures are full of heart. There's good room for sad emotions and learning how to feel better. My kid loved it and hopefully learned not to eat puzzle pieces.
but enough)!You see, they wanted a Normal Child, like the infamous Dr. Spock preached was optimal for the Fabulous Fifties.
Needless to say, the best laid plans gang aft aglay...And I never really WANTED to be normal, anyway!But when they were checking me in to the paediatric ward, THERE was THIS book in the waiting room - appropriately enough.
Though I was now well into the ‘Classics Illustrated’ phase of my life, I had loved to read and reread the first Curious George book as a tot.So next morning, when they wheeled my kid’s size bed towards the OR, I asked if I could bring George with me.
After re-reading "Curious George Goes to the Hospital" I am convinced that it is the peak of literary perfection, unmatched by any other human accomplishment.
The fact that the story's wealth of knowledge and inspiration is so remarkably accessible to persons of most any age is surely a testament to the unarguable brilliance of Margret & H.A. Rey. I loathe to attribute something as mundane as a "Star Rating" to such a transcendentally significant work which redefines the boundaries of human/primate existence, and so eloquently conveys the folly and ultimate triumph of monkeykind...
"Curious George Goes to the Hospital" is, quite simply, the most profoundly perfect book ever created, and shall undoubtedly remain so until the end of time.
Parents need to know that Curious George Goes to the Hospital is the last of the original Curious George books by H.A. Rey and Margret Rey. The adorable little monkey must be admitted to the hospital after he eats a puzzle piece.
The book describes the way the hospital staff discover what happened to George and what it's like for George to be in the hospital, but there's no detail about the procedure to remove the puzzle piece.
For children in the book and for readers, George's funny adventures take the edge off a trip to the hospital.
I first read it when I was seven.
During my recovery, George was there with me in the hospital room the entire time.
I read the pages until I had every nuance of the illustrations memorized.
This book comforted me and, for one of the first times, broadened me beyond my grade-school world.
If a monkey could survive the hospital, then so could I.One other thing to note: This book gave me a new phobia of jigsaw puzzles.
Never again would I put a piece to my mouth while I was contemplating where it should go in the puzzle.
Curious George Goes to the Hospital was about a curious little monkey named George.
One day George was waiting for the man with the yellow hat to get home.
When he opened the box, there were lots of little pieces that looked like candy.
When the man got home he discovered George had already opened the box.
When they had the whole thing together the man with the yellow hat noticed there was a piece missing.
I would recommend this to kids who like reading funny stories about Curious George or kids who like watching Curious George.
Oh, no! Curious George swallows a piece of his puzzle, and doesn't feel so good. Off to the hospital he goes, where he finds puppets to play with, and wheelchairs to race down the halls. Another classic George story!
My son from birth has always been surrounded with Curious George. Today at the ripe old age of 3 he travels everywhere with his stuffed George doll, and morning cuddle time he is a mainstay. He loves the cartoons on PBS as well. For me, I remember as a kid going to my ped. for Dr. appts, always looking for a certain George book, (George Goes to the Hospital) for the waiting room. Luckily it was always available in the waiting room. A couple years ago I found a beautiful hardcover boxset at B&amp
Today at the ripe old age of 3 he travels everywhere with his stuffed George doll, and morning cuddle time he is a mainstay.
for Dr. appts, always looking for a certain George book, (George Goes to the Hospital) for the waiting room.
A couple years ago I found a beautiful hardcover boxset at B&N that I thought would make a great Xmas gift for my son, and it included the Hospital book along with this one.
The simplicity and innocense of the time period when written is highly apparent which for me I want for my son.
The poacher later constructs the jigsaw puzzle, sees that a piece is missing, doesn't connect it to the monkey's tummy ache, and goes about his business.
The puzzle features the now-famous image of George finding the poacher's hat in the jungle.
Later events in this story confirm this view.George wakes up the next day, feeling even worse, so the poacher immediately takes him to the children's hospital.
If you are rich, you get immediate, first-class care at the nation's finest hospitals, even if you are a monkey, whereas if you are poor, like the little girl in the waiting room, well (view spoiler)[fuck (hide spoiler)] you!
Curious George Goes to the Hospital by Margret Rey was about a curious little monkey named George who was always getting into trouble because of the adventures he took.
One day George was waiting for the man with the yellow hat to get home.
When the man got home he discovered George had already opened the box.
The mayor was visiting the hospital that same day and George was going down the ramp right toward him.
After that, the man with the yellow hat came to pick George up and they started to go home.
I have loved Curious George books since I was child.
For instance in the book this makes put children at ease when going to the hospital.
This book teaches children to not put toys in their mouth.
I use Curious George books in my daycare doing story time for daycare children and they really enjoy listening to his stories.
After reading this book I added food, candy and toys to a box and had children pull out something from the box and asked them are they suppose to put this in their mouth or not.
My boy loves George.
I like the recent Curious George stuff much more than the classic.
This is one of the better classic books as it doesn't imply George was behaved badly when curious.
What I liked:- George helps other kids feel more comfortable at the hospital.
This is a scary place for kids and this book does a good job in making the hospital less scary.
It does provide a way to start a conversation about hospital stays and what is scary about them.
I don't have to figure out how to explain George smoking a pipe before bed, so that's a plus in my book.
Review: I think Curious George is a wonderful series for young children.In this particular story, George goes to the hospital and getting surgery. This story teaches children about the hospital and the different people that work there.Learning Experience: In small groups, the children will be given different materials and will be told to act out the story by pretending to be all the people that are at the hospital. For example, one children can play the patient, another can play the doctor, another can be a nurse, and another can be the receptionist.
I like Curious George now. Seeing George go to the hospital and have an operation was just like me.
This book was originally written in cooperation with a children's hospital, and was probably used to ease the fears of children going through medical treatments there.
George swallows a puzzle piece and has to go to the hospital to have it removed.
What today would likely be an outpatient treatment keeps George in the hospital for a few days in the book.
He goes through different emotions of feeling lonely, scared, and sick that children needing hospital treatment would likely feel.
In the end, his antics bring smiles to the faces of the sick children, earning forgiveness from those who have to clean up his messes.
When George accidentally eats a puzzle piece he is admitted to the hospital for surgery. Oh man, he is soooo cute when he cries because the man with the yellow hat has to leave him alone for the night at the hospital. After the surgery George has fun with the rest of the kids in the children's ward. After a bit of chaos, George is discharged and he goes home with his friend and a package from the doctor. When they open the package they find the missing puzzle piece that he had eaten and they finish their puzzle.
Out of all the Curious George books I think this one might be the best one. I remember watching a claymation short based on this and it's allays stuck with me. As a kid, I use to go the hospital more times than I can count now. I never swallowed anything that looked like "candy," but I had a couple of health issues. One time, they took x-rays with my stomach and I had that barium stuff. Always thought of this story. In someways, this helped me as a kid with my constant hospital visits.
An enjoyable read and a book that would make a good gift for a child going to the hospital.Ages: 4 - 8**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website!
This is a great book to talk about preparing children for a staying over at the hospital. This book will teach children about different feelings about going to the hospital. This book is well made, vibrant colors. You can’t go wrong with Curious George.
A really good book to read to any child that may have an upcoming visit to a hospital for a procedure. It's a bit long for a picture book and slightly outdated, but the premise is good and the illustrations would certainly help to lower any anxiety a child might feel when going to the hospital.
Again, please! Please?
This is a great book About a 🐒 monkey being a doctor.
George's curiosity lands him in the hospital. While staying there, he continues to be a mischievous little monkey. Fun and silly.
This is the final Curious George book. This book serves to make it easier to bring kids to the hospital. The whole experience can be fun. The drawings are full of live which makes it a classic.
When you are recovering from surgery and someone brings you this book as a gift, you read it!
Love watching George create havoc.
A great book for a child that is going to have surgery or a procedure.
I like the original Curious George books.5/31/17 Read with Naomi, Julia, Connor, & Savannah.
46 years old and I can still remember reading this as a child and crying my eyes out. My favorite childhood book!
The kids do love Curious George.
