https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/349929.Passing
Delving into the perception of race from a myriad of perspectives, Larsen takes her readers back to a bygone era when African Americans were beginning to make inroads in northern society.
Irene Redfield and her husband Brian are members of W.E.B. DuBois' mythical talented tenth of Negro society.
Even though Irene is light enough to pass for white in some circles, Brian is not, and the couple makes Harlem their home.
Clare Kendry is light enough to pass for white, so she marries an upper crust banker and alternates her life between Europe and New York.
2017 Honorable Mention with High Distinction Read  This was an extremely thought provoking and personally challenging read for me on a number of levels.
This led to a dissonance at times not in terms of my own self identity which always felt solid but in terms of getting on in the world.
Challenging our own prejudices is very important work for ourselves, our society and the world.
The more I understand that I am no different from others the more I can work towards personal and societal change.
Both Clare and Irene are light-skinned Black women who grew up in the same neighborhood; since the time of their separation from each other, though, Clare has married an aggressive white supremacist and begun passing as a white woman, while Irene has thoroughly involved herself in the racial politics of her upper middle class Black community.
All the while, Irene internally fumes over the pleasure Clare takes in using her as a means to access Black culture from afar, without living in a Black community or caring about racial solidarity.
I’m writing an essay on racial encounter in the modernist movement for university, so I’ve been picking this book apart during my second and third readings of it.
Her feelings for Clare Kendry switch back and forth between lust and hatred; she hates how this woman has a pull over her, an irresistible force of attraction that she cannot shy away from.And it’s ruining her life; thus, the completely open end of the book.
More and more I seem to be referencing the ideas of Franz Fannon’s Black Skins White Masks whenever I review a book like this.
Crossing borders, sneaking into a different society through the back door, and living a secret life, fearing the consequences of detection - that is the main theme of "Passing", which I read directly after Quicksand, but had to let sink in for a couple of days before reviewing.Quicksand is about how you slowly, steadily sink deeper and deeper into life, choking when you feel the lack of choice, the lack of freedom in a world that judges you for the colour of your skin, your gender, your attitude towards traditions."Passing" is about rebellion against the status quo, and it ends with an explosion of violence I was rather unprepared for, and still can't digest entirely, as it challenged my perception of "good" and "bad" characters to the breaking point, - which is something I appreciate in a novel.Nella Larsen is definitely a new discovery for me this year, writing seemingly effortless stories of women facing racism and male dominance in the glamorous New York of the 1920s.
Till the very end Larsen successfully kept me guessing at the hidden fears, ambitions and motivations that drive Irene Redfield and Clare Kendry - two light-skinned black women who subscribe to different forms of morally ambiguous survivalist ideology to counter the omnipresent threat posed by a white supremacist socioeconomic milieu.
In a way, 'Passing' is less about two intelligent women cautiously toeing the invisible boundary separating white and black America and more about characters futilely grappling with a malignant identity crisis.
The rating is an acknowledgement of the degree of my emotional involvement and the fact that the ending left me slightly slack-jawed.
Unfortunately I have not read many Harlem Renaissance greats.
I've only previously read "Native Son," "Go Tell it on the Mountain," "Invisible Man," pretty much.
It speaks of the race problem with the use of melodrama, a very tricky device which feels snuggly and at home here.
But when her very opposite comes into her life, a question surges forward and it is this: how much of your race constitutes you as a person?
Race is an issue, it is bravely brought out to the forefront with minimal embellishment, & all this occurs at a swift & elegant, even speed.
Nella Larson (1891-1964) was born in Chicago to mixed race parents.
Her mother was Danish and her father was Afro-Caribbean, also with a mixed race heritage.
So Nella was caught in between worlds, not quite white, not quite black, so it was natural for her to write of her life experiences.
And that's what she does in Passing (1929).
The story is set in Harlem and revolves around two women, Irene Redfield and Clare Kendry, both light skinned, one secure and happy, accepting her racial identity, the other "passing" as a white woman and burdened with all the insecurities her secret causes.
Nella Larsen holds her own place in history for being the first African-American woman to receive a Guggenheim fellowship, and while her body of work hardly got off the ground in terms of numbers, what she did produce was fascinating insight into the tough lives people of mixed race had to endure.
Like a handful of others, Kendry is 'passing' for caucasian, her husband makes jokes about her skin tone, but has no idea she is classed as non-white.This is as much a story about the gap between private and public selves as it is about racial identity, but what I found particularly thought-provoking was the subtle nature it offers on standards of beauty from within as well as on the outside.
The tense, trammelled atmosphere of the book, reflecting the limitations imposed on black lives by segregation and white supremacy, is, for me, created largely through the uncommunicative relationship between Irene and her (visibly and attractively black) husband Brian.
Clare's longing to participate in blackness - in the vibrant middle-class black circles of Harlem that Irene and Brian move in - also speaks, I think, especially as the changing conditions of capitalism have worked so vigorously and insidiously to dismantle community and mutuality, especially among black people, at all levels of society.Stylistically, as Mae Henderson points out, the text is fragmentary, full of lacunae that require the reader to supply meaning and synthesis.
Passing is a novel by American author Nella Larsen.
I tend to applaud authors who can create a wonderful reading experience in books of less than 150 pages as opposed to block busters and here in "passing"  so much happens within so little pages.
I am probably in the minority on loving abrupt or endings that are controversial but I enjoy an author who allows the reader a little story involvement.
. I love to discuss books and  Passing is one of those novels that has lots of material for discussion.
Irene Redfield knew Clare when they were both children and after many years of separation happened upon her in a setting where both were at least temporarily "white." From there the novella moves on, telling the story from Irene's point of view, with all the complexities of womanhood, race, marriage and hoped for fulfillment, fear of losing what one has attained vs questioning the value of what one has gained.I am very thankful to Constant Reader for having this book as the August selection.
If the latter were the case, I would have to downgrade a great deal of other works read previously to this; as I have neither the time nor inclination for such things, simply take my word for it that Larsen is, regardless of how the relative merits of her works compare to one another, in a class of her own.It is authors as qualified as Larsen who take fiction for what it's worth with little heed for what they are expected to do.
They choose the same old themes of centuries past and shape the bones of their own life accordingly, bringing to life a story as old as humanity whose power rests in the quickening insight unlike anything literature had been able to offer before.
The fact that people literally had to pass as another race to be accepted is beyond me, but the color of one's skin has been the subject of discrimination for many millennia and I don’t see it changing any time soon.Nella Larson's book, Passing, is a classic set during the Harlem Renaissance of the late 1920’s & early 1930’s; it evokes the good memories of Harlem in its upbeat, jazzy and coming-of-age mentality, but also shares the unfortunately sad prejudice against black or bi-racial people of the era and shows what some people will do to control social boundaries; risking not only their social stigmas but also their welfare.Larson’s portrayal of two bi-racial women fighting for acceptance in society (yet from opposite ends of the spectrum), and the ultimate result which tears both of their worlds apart is not only a great representation, but a tragic one that has been on my mind from the final page.Recommended.
This was incredibly thought-provoking and such easy reading compared to some other modernist texts.
While at times the subject matter was hard to read, it was also extremely compelling and thought-provoking.
Written during the Harlem-Renaissance, Passing follows Irene Radfield and Clare Kendry, childhood friends who have a chance encounter as adults in a Chiacago tea shop.
Clare has been passing as white for 12 years, has become estranged from black culture and now lives with her white supremacist husband and their daughter.
This really was such a great read, I enjoyed it so much and it left me with so many interesting thoughts.
PASSING gets an above-passing grade. It was on my TBR list for so long that I'm not sure why I might have wanted to read it, but I'm glad I got through it and...yeah, I'm glad I read it.
Clare, herself, or the race.
Nothing, she imagined, was ever more completely sardonic.Passing, in my reading, is a book on identity.
Then those identities which we ignore, or deny, or those selves which we don't even know we have.The story is set in 1920s New York, with two light-skinned black women - Irene Redfield, and Clare Kendry.
The rest of the book follows Irene as she enters this world, and follows her own questioning her identity.
The writing of the book is understated, yet it conceals a great emotional depth, as Irene and Clare conceal their own emotions.
Another great novel by Nella Larsen, set in Harlem in the 1920s and written in 1929.
It is about two childhood friends, Irene Redfield and Clare Kendry, written in the third person from the point of view of Redfield.
Passing indicates, in this case a person of mixed heritage passing as someone who is white (in this novel Kendry).
Sometime after this chance encounter they meet again (reluctantly on Redfield’s part) and then there are suggestions that Kendry is having an affair with Brian, Redfield’s husband and there are risks that Kendry’s husband will discover her secret.
This is a short novel that packs a lot of punch. I expected the themes of race and racism, but was surprised by the intensity of its portrayal of the protagonist's feelings of ferocious jealousy. The ending was quite a shock, so I'm glad in this instance that I approached the book not knowing how it would conclude (and I won't spoil it here!)"Passing" was my pick for the Read Harder Challenge task to "read a classic by an author of color". I listened to the audiobook version narrated by Robin Miles, and I felt her narration was exemplary.
I've been fooled twice now into thinking Nella Larsen isn't a great writer.
She controls her story perfectly; she gives you exactly the information you need at exactly the right time.
There's a six-floor walkup in one scene of Passing; the characters complain about it, and one makes a racial comment about it.
It's there for a reason; Larsen is positioning you, making sure you know you're six floors up, because one of the characters will have to come back down.
It gets you where you need to go - Clare, who passes as white and has married a racist, is capable of anything.
Nella Larsen has a lot of cheese.
Clare Kendry is passing.
Clare has been successful at establishing her deceptive life, but she is not satisfied.
She wants to keep one foot in the black community, and the way she opts to do that is through her friend, Irene.
Irene is happy in her black life.
She does not want to re-establish her relationship (that is rooted in their childhood together) with Clare.
There is nothing in this for Irene but involvement with a person she does not wish to know.
She obviously knows the world of which she writes and understands the subtlety of racial identification in Harlem in the 1920s.
I kept seeing this classic of the Harlem Renaissance everywhere, and took it as a sign to read it. A story of passing for white, but between the lines there is so much more - nonheteronormative attraction, marriage, roles of women, sexuality, desire, parenthood... it's a lot deeper than it looks!
This was very good! It grabs your attention. It keeps you guessing from the first page to the last. It gives interesting perspectives on the concept of "passing" as a White. Great dialogs. No, more than great, exceptional! It moves quickly, and when it ends it leaves you thinking. This is a classic that is worth reading. It says a lot in a few words. It packs a punch. Excellent audiobook narration by Robin Miles.There is an exception to every rule. This was short and I liked it a lot.
This book said so much in so few words.
It obviously deals with race issues, but oh so much more-- class issues, identity crisis, marriage infidelity, possibly lesbianism between the two main characters--their relationship, especially in the beginning is subtle, yet intense.
It was over way too soon & left me wanting to read more of Larsen's writing.
Unfortunately, there's not much to read.
I love when I discover an author that makes me want to devour all his/her work, and research their personal life in the hopes of finding out what inspired them to write.
I'm curious as to why this talented author stopped writing or publishing.
I truly hope it was her own choice.
As a result, she chooses to stay within the African-American community, and she only "passes" when it's convenient for her, or at times when she is in a position to gain.
On the other hand, Clare, who was also born African-American, chooses to disregard her African-American roots and live her life solely as a white woman.
She embraces all that it has to offer...even her husband doesn't know she's black.As the story unfolds, both these women are made to choose what's most important to them, and, strangely enough, neither is happy with the path they have chosen.
A short novel about a concept so alien today to the white, non-American community that it's absolutely worth reading for its subject matter.
Also, I don't feel the attraction of this supposedly fascinating character, who, for some reason, makes me think of Maggie, Julia Roberts' character in Runaway Bride and this priceless dialogue:Maggie: Because you think I'm all like, "Hey, man, check me out."Peggy: No, I don't.
"I'm charming and mysterious in a way that even I don't understand, and something about me is crying out for protection from a big man like you." It's very hard to compete with.
I intend to read Larson's Quicksand in the near future.
Passing for straight.Passing for married.Mostly, passing for happy.And passing for white. Whatever white is.
4.5/5When James Baldwin said that: "The idea of racial progress in America is measured by how fast I become white", he hit upon the issue at the core of Passing; the narrative focuses on two women trying their damnedest to ignore the ways they are mistreated because they are black.
Among the other reasons this novel resounds so strongly with me are the times that I felt Larsen almost imperceptibly raise the pressure in each character's mind.
Over time Irene and Clare became more deliberate in the ways they ignored the cruelty in the world around them.
An absorbing read, with its fair share of pulse-quickening moments.
Prior to this, I wasn't aware that there was such a phenomenon as "passing", in which an individual tries to pass of as a member of another race (typically coloured or mixed to white).
Now that it's been brought to my attention through this novel, I'm surprised it's possibility hadn't occurred to me before, given the socio-economic conditions prevailing at that time.I liked the writing style but some of the dialogue seemed more reminiscent of early 18th century England than 1920's Harlem.
Or maybe I'm just ignorant.
As a person who is half-Mexican, I somewhat know what it is to "pass." My upbringing was structured to affect this social illusion.My mother, who speaks fluent Spanish, refused to teach me Spanish as a child.
And yet, at those moments I have a brief longing to be accepted and on the other side of the conversation I usually sense an understanding.Because Passing explores these elements in terms of blacks in America, there is heightened illustrative aspect to the book that goes far beyond my experiences.
