https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50937.First_Break_All_the_Rules
The best managers are those that build a work environment where the employees answer positively to these 12 Questions:1.
As long as the means are within the company's legal boundaries and industry standards, let the employee use his own style to deliver the result or outcome you want.- Motivate by focusing on strengths, not weaknesses.- Casting is important, if an employee is not performing at excellence, maybe she is not cast in the right role.- Every role is noble, respect it enough to hire for talent to match.- A manager must excel in the art of the interview.
"People don't leave jobs or companies - they leave managers."
she told me that her new principal (she's a 5th grade teacher) enrolled her in a number of training sessions.
How can a new manager accurately gauge the training needs of an employee she's never managed?
My best friend went on to explain that she'd been in change of data for the entire elementary school last year and that she had a reputation for her skills.
So, I can see how her principal, perhaps forced to decide sooner or later who would receive such training, enrolled my friend based on her reputation.
FBATR makes me wonder, though, does my friend need this training?
کتاب مزخرفی بود ترجمه ش از خود کتاب مزخرفتر بود نصفه نیمه رهاش کردم
A perfectly good tree died for this book.
Other than present the findings of the research studies by the Gallop organisation, I’m not sure what aim the authors had for “First break all the rules”.
I’m not sure where the authors have been for the last 30 years and I’d also question whether they have ever been managers themselves.
What Buckingham and Coffman suggest managers do in chapters, 3,4,5,6 & 7 which they call “breaking the rules” has been taught in all the enlightened management training organisations and by experienced management trainers for at least the last 30 years.
There is nothing new here, though if a manager wants a very good checklist of the things he or she should be doing, buy the book for chapter one.
This book had some sound advice as it focused on the four key principles all great managers know and practice: 1) select for talent, 2) define the right outcomes, 3) focus on strengths, and 4) encourage employees to find the right fit. It's worth a read, but I feel like I have to have a degree in psychology (or psychiatry for that matter) to be a great manager. Nonetheless, time will tell!
I couldn't shake off the sense of cliché all over the book.
I've just finished reading Marcus Buckingham's book First, Break All the Rules: What the World's Greatest Managers Do Differently recently, and enjoyed it immensely.
But despite their differences, these great managers do share one thing: Before they do anything else, they first break all the rules of conventional wisdom.
However, the author argues that we are better off focusing on our strength through extensive surveys and in-depth interviews with the best managers.
In chapter 2, the author listed twelve questions he calls "measure sticks of workplace strength", and they are: " Do I know what is expected of me at work?
Maybe I'm already a "great manager" or maybe they were just trying to make me think so, but it seems to me that all of the recommendations in this book are pretty obvious...all employees are different and require different inspiration, focus on your best performers, communicate often and clearly.Definitely not groundbreaking or even informative from my perspective.
W sumie książka ma jedną, ogromną i straszliwą wadę: tytuł.
Brzmi jak new-age self-help lotniskowa pozycja.Tymczasem to jedna z najlepszych książek o zarządzaniu jakie czytałem, oparta na rygorystycznych badaniach o ogromnej skali, z których wyciągnięto konkretne i wdrażalne wnioski.W środku jest tak dużo dobrego materiału, że słuchając bałem się, że przez roztargnienie czegoś zapomnę.
Książka stawia sporo niepoprawnych tematów.
Jest też także bardzo dobry sposób na określanie czy pracuje się w wartościowym miejscu zawodowo (Q12, odpowiednik Gallup StrenghtFindera ale do oceny firm a nie ludzi).
ale to dopiero początek - liczba narzędzi tu zawarta do wykorzystania przez zawodowych managerów jest ogromna.
Some notes:People don't change.
Value talent, not experience.Value outcome, not steps.Cast people for fit, not the rung on the ladder.
At work, do I have the opportunity to do what I do best every day?4.
In the past seven days, have I received recognition or praise for good work?5.
Does my supervisor, or someone at work, seem to care about me as a person?6.
Is there someone at work who encourages my development?7.
At work, do my opinions seem to count?8.
Are my co-workers committed to doing quality work?10.
Do I have a best friend at work?11.
At work, have I had opportunities to learn and grow?
This book greatly annoyed me. It poses as giving the secrets to managers to motivate employees into being the best. Very little gave me any confidence it could possibly work. We have to trust the authors the "great" managers really are since very little information is provided about them to independently judge.I'd like to see experimental data where the methods described indicate strong evidence they work. Otherwise, there could be any number of other factors influencing why employees improved. Then again, I don't have any evidence these tricks do not work. So I'll give it two stars.
Gallup interviewed 8000 people. However, only about a dozen people were actually cited in the text. There really wasn't much that this book did for me. There was no "A-ha" moment. The author didn't even explain what these rules are that we are supposed to be breaking. Just disappointing.
I'm not a manager, but this book felt especially relevant to me since my company just did an employee survey based on the 12 questions Gallup formulated through this study.
The authors really pushed "excellence at every level" and I couldn't agree more.
The authors also did a really nice job explaining an alternate view of having to terminate employees.
While it's never pleasant, great managers truly approach it in a different fashion, and that was utterly fascinating to me to see a new side of that.
A point that was continually stressed througout is that people don't leave companies, they leave managers.
As another research-based business book, this one presented a great point-of-view on managing people.
While it does seem that Buckingham departed from his research slightly from time to time, the message still rings true.
I would recommend that all managers consider the idea that people are all different, and therefore should be managed differently, not the same.
While I like the main message of this book, I will say that the delivery was somewhat lacking.
The content was good, but it just isn't well written.
All things considered I would give the content a solid 4.5 stars, but taking a holistic view, I can't go over three stars.
This book explodes the notion of being well rounded as a good thing and says that great managers value innate "talent" over curiosity, intelligence, or eagerness to learn. I worry that the focus on selecting and grooming talent may be interpreted by some as an excuse to avoid development or training, and to write off strugglers/stragglers as "non-talents." At the very least, Gallup has a unique approach; this is a good litmus test for how much you can buy into what later became their "StrengthsFinder" doctrine.
I really enjoyed it's scientific approach, and it's hands on explanations and tips. As a fairly junior manager and leader, the book has made me retrace my steps a bit, especially on what my priorities should be, and as part of that, how I evaluate myself. It's also lead me to put effort into reflecting how I'm coloured by what the author describes as 'conventional wisdom about management', which while not necessary is always wrong, is worth questioning. Such things are treating everyone equally, or spending more time with high-performers than with low-performers.
The findings in this book would surprise many of us, who do self-development or others-development everyday. It would give you an effective framework in recruiting the right ones, setting the right goals, focusing on the strengths, and assigning the right roles to the subordinates. That'll help to bring the best out of them. What would surprise you is that you'll find many myths that you used to think it is right, but it is not from the findings of Gallup.
I read this a few years back. Overall I did not find this book and its approaches to management all that impressive. I have also heard Buckingham speak at a conference. He strikes me as someone who has not managed a lot but has a lot advice on how to do it.
All about managing people.It would seem that the way to be a successful manager is to find successful people to manage :-)
Cathy Allen A few years back, in a fit of misguided patriotism, I took a J.O.B. in a government agency with a mission to help people who would otherwise struggle to get by.
If someone wants to change and grow and gain a new skill, there is probably a darn good book about whatever they want to learn.
They can't make people change or improve their skills.
As it was, I lasted only a few months before happily returning to consulting, where I still use the book to help clients who want to learn how to be better supervisors.
On reading it, I saw that a lot of the stuff is things one would think are common sense.
A lot of managers like to make like what they do is some mysterious, mystical thing or just something certain gifted people can do.
So much of the advice in the book may seem common sense if you have such talent (or if you have been exposed to so many bad bosses and managers you just know they should be doing the stuff in the book instead).
But in the end, the very simple gist of the book is this: hire the best people for their talent (not skills or knowledge.
I've approached this book from different points of view and, by extension, different needs:1.
as a program manager of a management learning program (2004 - 2007):  to find out if the book is suitable as a thought-provoking gift to a group of new managers who have  just completed their management development program.2.
as a management consultant (2007 - 2011): to learn the words and pictures used to describe talent, superstar performers, expectations and the  different behaviors.3.
The only reason I'd need to get a new copy of this book is because my current copy would be tattered from my constant referring to it.

This was the book that launched Gallup's HR consulting practice.
Taking their organizational core competencies of surveys and data analysis into the workplace yielded a magnificent business book that for once wasn't personality or anecdote driven.
Gallup surveyed millions of workers, defined success for a business unit based on quantifiable outcomes, and then conducted qualitative interviews to follow up on what the best managers were doing differently.
It fits with findings from positive psychology so it is likely to last and it will launch you into several great follow up books from the Gallup research team.
It's more of a 4.5 than 5. This book wasn't one of my favs per se, but I did learn a lot from it and there were many truths that I took for granted that it proved wrong in business management. Later sets up a game plan for being an effective manager, something that I'm sure has been used thousands of time since the books conception and maybe one day will be used by me.
An interesting book, confronting the old-school method of management for a model more productive. This book did not hold my attention, mainly because I wasn't as interested in some of the other topics I have read. This was on my professional to be read lists. It was helpful in many ways, grabbing various seeds of thought to add to my "productivity hopper."
Great book to teach about management and coaching. Also a great read for anyone looking to empower their own career. I feel you don't need to be in management or interested in being a manger to get value from this book.
Once a means of establishing a talented and engaged employee was identified, the book went a step further and studied their managers.
In selecting a person, the book recommends selecting for talent, which it defines as “a recurring pattern of thought, feeling, or behavior that can be productively applied”, rather than skill or knowledge, which can be transferred and learned.
Instead, great managers act as mirrors to their employees, helping them to see and use talents in their role.
They spend the most time with their best employees, knowing these individuals can be pushed to greatness and that “the less attention they pay to productive behaviors, the less of these behaviors they will get” (155).
