https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/525010.Madam_Crowl_s_Ghost_Other_Stories
This is a good posthumous anthology of ghost stories, chosen by no less an authority than M.R. James himself.
A few others are memorable as well, particularly the three short tales in "Ghosts of Chapelizod" and the sophisticated use of Irish folklore demonstrated in "The Child Who Went With the Fairies" and "The White Cat of Drumgunniol." Even in his most inferior stories--which are still very good--Le Fanu shows a talent for choosing the unsettling detail which can produce a genuine thrill.
Perhaps these aren't the best ghost stories I've ever read, but Le Fanu is a master of atmosphere, which helps to produce the sense of dread or doom I look for when I read these sorts of tales.
While these stories aren't a complete set of terrifying tales by Le Fanu, they've certainly been enough to whet my appetite for more.
And, for the haunted house story reader, there are a number of those here -- for example, my favorite of this type found in this book, "An Account of Some Strange Disturbances In Aungiers Street." I really liked the stories set in among the hills of Ireland, largely because Le Fanu steeps these tales in atmosphere from the outset.
A posthumous collection of lesser and early work by arguably the first great ghost story writer. Still, half the contents are worth the price of admission with the eponymous story, Squire Toby's Will, Dickon the Devil, The Child that went with the Fairies, The White Cat of Drumgunniol, Aungier Street, Sir Dominick's Bargain being all worth the time before the fireplace with the lights down.
These were Le Fanu's lesser works. But even amidst them one can find darkly gleaming jewels like "Madam Crowl's Ghost", and haunting tales that can generate shivers under appropriate atmospheric conditions. However, the languid style of the rest didn't enamour me that much. Hence, only three stars.
James was also an admirer and in 1923 edited an important collection of le Fanu’s ghost stories, Madam Crowl’s Ghost and other stories.
The stories in Madam Crowl’s Ghost and other stories aren’t really his best stories – none of them are quite in the same league as Strange Event in the Life of Schalken the Painter, or some of the stories in the collection In a Glass Darkly, such as Green Tea. They’re still superb examples of the Victorian ghost story, and if you have any love for ghost stories then you absolutely must read Sheridan le Fanu.

Today, of course, with the fantastical genre having seen many changes these stories seem a bit old-fashioned, but we cannot say that they don’t have a particular atmosphere of that era.This collection, collected and edited by M.R. James almost a century ago, contains some of his lesser-known and rarer ghost stories.Madam Crowl's GhostThe first story opens the collection with an old woman as she narrates us the events that brought her, when she was just a little girl then, in the home of the near-dying Madam Crowl, and faced-to-face with her spirit.With his usual Irish style Le Fanu brings in this story an interesting idea, but nevertheless fails to impress so much in the end as a whole.Squire Toby's WillThe second story focuses on the Marston family, and particularly on the younger son - Charles who, through some treacherous plans, became the heir of the house of Gylingden Hall and left his older brother out of their father’s will.
James' included notes are invaluable to anybody embarking on a Le Fanu reading list.
Though Le Fanu's penchant for publishing his stories, ideas and characters many times, often revised in small ways, completely rewritten, or subsumed into other works, tests even James' extensive study of his works.
My favourite story from this collection is 'An Account Of Some Strange Disturbances In Aungier Street'.
though even this does sport some of those extras I mentioned or as Le Fanu would have it some 'valuable collateral particulars'.Stories included are:Madam Crowl's GhostSquire Toby's WillDickon the DevilThe Child that Went with the FairiesThe White Cat of DrumgunnoilAn Account of Some Strange Disturbances in Aungier StreetGhost Stories of ChapelizodWicked Captain Walshawe of WaulingSir Dominick's BargainUltor de Lacy: A Legend of CappercullenThe Vision of Tom ChuffStories of Lough Guir
R. James (who wrote the introduction in my edition of the book) in that he argues that the later stories (the earlier ones in the book) are the most polished in the collection; just because by that stage Le Fanu had perfected his art.
There are some beautiful examples of writing and Le Fanu has a marvellous turn of phrase, particularly as he compares the oral art of story telling to that of the written word.
Oh, and a couple set in Yorkshire (I think) as well!I liked the first story and the title piece - Madam Crowl's Ghost.
Heck, you could really imagine her eating small children for breakfast (unlike a character in another book I'm trying to read at the moment).All the stories were great, although maybe the last one wasn't one of my favourites - it was a bit bitty and ho diddly hum....
the one with random bits about the wizard's castle that was submerged under the lake.
It was a bit random - him doing these horrid magic tricks and telling his wife if she screamed, they'd all be drowned.
Some uncollected, forgotten stories gathered together by M R James some time after Le Fanu's death. A mix of ghosts with unfinished business and Irish folk tales-such as the sad The Child that went with the Fairies, and the omen of death The White Cat of Drumgunniol . In A Glass Darkly is a better collection.
Entertaining, plus fascinating as a look into historical superstition.
This collection of ghostly and folkloric tales by Le Fanu is not a 'best-of' or even a selection of favourites by compiler M R James, it simply consists of stories that had remained uncollected at the time of the author's death.
They represent a few of his last stories, including 'Madam Crowl's Ghost', and early works which had only previously been published in fairly obscure Irish journals.
But as a back to basics, distinctly gothic, selection of weird tales 'Madam Crowl's Ghost and Others' thoroughly deserves that place on my shelf.
When Harriet returns to Oxford to help track down a poison pen in Gaudy Night, she uses research into Le Fanu's writings as a plausible cover for her return to college.
Her interest sparked mine.This collection of ghost stories, originally written in the mid- to late-1800s is a bit verbose and slightly dated and the work is a bit uneven.
But for those of us who aren't looking for truly horrific ghost stories, these are just right.
Some of the stories (for instance, "Dickon the Devil" and "The Vision of Tom Chuff") remind me of ghost stories told around the camp fire or at sleep-overs.
It was collected and introduced by M.R. James, who really likes it, obviously, but nothing in this book comes close to anything by James.
One odd thing about this book was that James says he put the stories in order from best to worst, but I thought they got better as they went along.
Which doesn't say much, considering how shitty the first story is.
Now that I think about it, it really does deserve one star, but I usually only give that to books I hate on principle as well as content, and I guess in principle, there's nothing wrong with writing ghost stories.
There are pure horror stories and then there are ghostly supernatural tales, of which Le Fanu was a specialist.
These are the tales which make me sing and whistle as I walk deserted streets alone at night, for I was once told that spirits will stay away if one keeps a steady tune.
These are the tales requiring a flashlight at night, because one is hiding beneath the covers in case a ghostly apparition makes an appearance.
The Child That Went With The Fairies and Dickon The Devil had me jumpy, and the rest of the stories thankfully adhere to Victorian decorum.
I read somewhere that the craft and power of telling ghost stories died out with the advent of electric light.
The theory was that creepy tales were the most thrilling when read in flickering candlelight (or gas lighting) when you could never be certain as to what was lurking in the shadows.
Perhaps this why the last stronghold of ghost stories today are around the campfire.
Anyway, these stories were written in the 1800s and in my opinion are as authentically eerie as you can get.
While I'm a fan of late 19th century ghost stories and gothic fiction in general and I quite liked Le Fanu's  In a Glass Darkly , this collection somehow left me cold. I guess it was because most of the stories feel rather quaint and folklike, almost as if they're taken right out of an almanac of folklore
A collection of 12 supernatural short stories first published as a collection in 1923, but originally published over the period 1851-1872. As such, they represent a great selection of Sheridan Le Fanu’s style over that period. Many of the stories are set around the area of Limerick in Ireland, and the use of folklore gives them a really effective atmosphere, uniquely different from the 19th century gothic supernatural stories of the time. Brilliant.
I'm looking into this book of short stories attributed to Sheridan Le Fanu and edited by M.R. James. The story "My Aunt Margaret's Adventure" was attributed to Le Fany in this book. The tale was originally published anonymously in "The Dublin University Magazine" with which Le Fanu was long associated.
I struggled to get through this, as I felt the writing was thick and sluggish, and it hasn't dated as well as the writing of some of Le Fanu's contemporaries. I loved the Irish dialogue, and regional accents, which were elegantly expressed.
Le Fanu <3I've read "Madam Crowl's Ghost" in another language, when I was about 6-7 years old. It was so scary, so powerful, I've remembered it all those years without even knowing the author's name. Now I found it again. Wow.
A selection of the Master's best supernatural tales. In Stephen King style but a century earlier, Madame Crowl seems like the sweet old lady next door until she starts hovering outside upstairs windows late at night.
There is something lyrical about the way this Irishman writes, which a always enjoy. The detail and the settings make the stories seem all the more timeless.
Very very dry. Some of the stories were okay but none really stood out for me. They were pretty well written though and I'm curious to check out some of his other stories.
A very good anthology of classic horror stories from the stables of Le Fanu. Some of the tales were outright spooky and thrilling to read.
This was a good introduction to the works of Le Fanu.
I liked it, but I didn't love it--if you're interested in the author, I'd recommend Carmilla.
Madame Crowl's Ghost ~ ★★★★Squire Toby's Will ~ ★★★★★Dickon the Devil ~ ★★★★The Child that went with the Fairies ~ ★★★The White Cat of Drumgunniol ~ ★★★★An Account of Some Strange Disturbances in Aungier Street ~ ★★★★Ghost Stories of Chapelizod ~ ★★★★Wicked Captain Walshawe, of Wauling ~ ★★★★Sir Dominick's Bargain ~ ★★★★Ultor de Lacy ~ ★★★The Vision of Tom Chuff ~ ★★★★Stories of Lough Guir ~ ★★★★
Read so far:Madam Crowl's Ghost--3Squire Toby's Will--Dickon the Devil--The Child That Went with the Fairies--The White Cat of Drumgunniol--An Account of Some Strange Disturbances in Aungier Street--Ghost Stories of Chapelizod--Wicked Captain Walshawe, of Wauling--Sir Dominick's Bargain (aka Sir Dominick Sarsfield)--Ultor de Lacy--The Vision of Tom Chuff--Stories of Lough Guir--
