https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111374.Sex_and_Temperament_in_Three_Primitive_Societies
O livro tem uma contribuição importantíssima quando surge nos anos 1940 para mostrar que as características que atribuímos a homens e mulheres é apenas mais uma forma de fazê-lo, no entanto, a autora se centra numa base psicologizante dos indivíduos.
Entre os Mundugmor, reina a violência e a agressividade como características de ambos os gênero (que a autora chama de sexo), já com os Tchambuli, há definições diferenciadas para homens e mulheres, os primeiros vivem da arte e são emocionalmente dependentes, já as mulheres, apesar da estrutura da sociedade dizer teoricamente que elas são dominadas pelos homens, são as que mandam politicamente.
Ele passa em torno de 4 anos em um 'não-lugar', nem pode mais viver totalmente sob o convívio das mulheres, nem dos homens até que entre na adultecência.
I learned that I live in bubble, and that exploring other worlds, cultures, beliefs, as well as adopting a multiple truths approach to life...should climb up to the top of my to do list.
People in Mead's time tended, for example, to criticize her for getting TOO much involved in the personal experiences of her 'subjects'--now she's considered too dry and impersonal.
When discussing, for example, the 'tamberan' cults, Mead goes into some detail to explain how similar beliefs are cherry-picked by people with different emphases and ideals to support their own priorities.It's evident that a lot more research took place among the Arapesh than among the other two tribes.
What's needed is to convince people who AREN'T naturally aligned with their societies' ideals to try to live up to those ideals.In terms of the questions examined in this book, what's at issue is the temperamental assumptions behind sex roles.
I feel like it's unfair to give such an important anthropological work a low rating, but in terms of my personal enjoyment of the book, it really was "just okay." Like most early anthropological texts, the writing is dry.
Margaret Mead positions herself distantly from her "subjects," and looks at the three New Guinean societies with an etic perspective.
I think it's worth looking at if you're a student interested in how the early study of anthropology impacted feminism or gender roles (i.e. the impact of studying another culture on one's own) -- but I would look for other sources if you're interested in the actual societies themselves.
Una excelente etnografía sobre la diferencia sexual, que muestra, además, la importancia de la diversidad y los problemas de la desigualdad.
The Arapesh believe that both women and men become pregnant when the woman is pregnant, and will perform the same child rearing duties as women.
The Mundugumor are cannabalistic and both men and women do not give a lot of physical affection to their children.
The Tchambuli men believe that art is important, and it is their role in society to pursue the arts while the women make money.
It is interesting to see how the roles of men and women can differ so much, even within the same country.
It also brings up the question, is the role of men and women ever definite?
What defines a woman?
attraverso lo studio delle abitudini e dei costumi di tre popolazioni della nuova guinea, margaret mead ci fa vedere l'influsso del sesso sul temperamento e ci mostra che le differenze tra uomini e donne sono spesso create dai condizionamenti sociali. studio degli anni 30, molto chiaro e affascinante- da perdercisi dentro.
Mead’s hypothesis, having studied three societies (two of which don’t have concepts of male and female temperaments but see both men and women as equally nurturing –in the case of the Arapesh- or equally aggressive and hostile – in the case of the Mundugumor) is that perceived sex differences are a result of social conditioning and not a result of biology.Considering the sudden increase in people reporting body dysphoria, it is interesting to see a study that examines social constructs of sexuality and also gives a fair amount of time to analysis of people who, due to their individual characters, cannot meet the expectations of their society.I am sure that there are criticisms of Mead’s work and method to be made.
In fact, having read this I am now interested to read other books on this subject to understand to what extent Mead’s hypothesis is borne out by other studies, and what criticisms have been levelled at her methodology.
Mead lived with the tribes and shares detailed observations of the cultures of each tribe, as well as describing how various personality types fit into each culture.There are more fine-grained descriptions in her book, but at a high level, she found that: 1) with the Arapesh, men and women were equally peaceful; 2) with the Mundugumor, mean and women were equally aggressive; and 3) with the Tchambuli, women were more aggressive than men.Mead's conclusion after observing these three tribes is that personality traits that are in some cultures considered sex-based, or assigned to a particular sex, are in fact interpreted differently in different cultures and not necessarily associated with one sex or another.
Very well written, but very dated compared to our current society. I can definitely see why it caused controversary at the time of its publishing. Excellent example of our studies of other peoples, and our biases inherent in those studies.
This book was written in 1935 and writing style/language being indicative of that time period was somewhat dry and formal.
This is understandable because of both the time frame and the fact that this book was written for educational purposes/scholarly audiences.
This made the book somewhat of a long read.
However, Margaret Mead did a fantastic job of addressing her initial concern, that of the differences in male and female behavior in the context of cultural norms.
She also did a fantastic job of concluding the book by applying this information to modern society and discussing the impact of gender roles as they affect modern society.
Il carattere antropologico del libro è già un punto a favore nel mio giudizio. Amo i saggi e le costruzioni narrative intorno ad esso, le esplorazioni più inconsuete ed approfondite. La fortuna di questo libro impegnativo è che riesce a sfatare la naturale convinzione che il sesso dia origine di per sé a differenti temperamenti. Il pensiero che possano trattarsi di condizioni socialmente realizzate anziché biologiche è difficile da comprendere, ma avventurandosi nella lettura attenta di diverse tribù africane si potrà capire come la donna non sia estranea a comportamenti "maschili" e viceversa. Interessante e sorprendente.
Bien que les théories de Margaret Mead aient été remises en cause de nombreuses fois, ses observations des tribus océaniennes nous montrent à quel point la société façonne l'être humain et que rien n'est "prédéfini". Agréable à lire, on s'imagine très bien se retrouver au milieu d'un village Arapesh ou à une fête Chambuli. Margaret Mead nous donne à travers ce livre une vision des relations homme-femme; non seulement dans les sociétés claniques, mais nous renvoie également au rapport entre les sexes dans notre société occidentale.
Culture provides us with roles connected with values, these roles are shaping our behaviour, but it also limits our potential where our personality is not in agreement with these roles... Society needs to provide many more sets of roles, not limited by sex, social gifts or status. Schools, families, working places should allow greater variety in values, expressing higher tolerance with diversity...Good summary and introduction in this book, feels fresh after 60 years.
Interesting study of sexual mores and beliefs in "primitive" societies. They seem a lot less primitive than some Americans I know, frankly. Only the chauvinsim of the age allowed the author to describe them that way. There's more to living than cars and flush toilets!
I hate to say this but it just didn't capture my attention for very long. I suppose the problem is that I went into this reading it as a lay person but the writing was a bit too dry for me to be swept up into it.
One of the best anthropological read thus far.
classic, well ahead of its time....
margaret mead's classic work in feminist anthropology. she scopes out various native tribes in new guinea, where gender dynamics are different, or somewhat reverse, of the western definitions.
I liked it not for the ethnography but for the time capsule of feminist thought.
Scheduled to reread, actually
The ethnography of each tribe could occasionally become tedious, but the big picture analysis and conclusions at the end made it worth the read.
Very interesting read.
Not bad for an Anthro text book
