https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/589064.Primitive_Mythology
A single chapter in this book on prehistoric mythology will contain lengthy references to the Vedas, Hawaiian mythologies, stories of the Blackfoot Indians, archaeological findings in Peru, and the love songs of the Troubadours.
Why didn't he save the material on the Vedas for Volume 2 on Oriental Mythology?
These books are very hard to read and I wish he'd had a co-author or a draconian editor who had forced him to stick to the schema he obviously laid out.
The book is worth its price simply for the brief Prologue alone, which is simply electrifying.
This was one of the best books on mythology I've ever had the pleasure of reading.
I've been a fan of mythology for as long as I can remember but this was the first time I was able to read a book by someone who shares my enthusiasm with the topic.
I've been seeing movies and literature in a new way.
I definitely recommend this book to anyone who loves reading.
It will open up new ways to look at contemporary literature and movies--making it even more enjoyable than it normally is.
These are the books which introduced me to Joseph Campbell - the single most serious influence in my intellectual life.These books are exhaustive, but maybe because of that reason, not as readable as his other books. In this first volume, Campbell takes us to the very origin of myth, before it became institutionalised as religion.
He was brilliant at discovering connections in seemingly unrelated myths across the globe, illuminating the ways in which beliefs moved from culture to culture over thousands of years.However: If you haven't read Campbell before I suggest you take The Hero with a Thousand Faces (Masks of God Lite) out for a spin first.
You'll be able to tell immediately if Campbell's dense & astoundingly long-winded writing style is something you can hang with, because hey, it's not for everyone.First off, be prepared to encounter verbosity so thick you may need a mental machete to hack your way through it.
If this doesn't daunt you than by all means, read The Masks of God. In this series, Campbell does not hold back.
Campbell examines the prevelence of some very specific motifs, across all varieties of unconnected cultures: Ghosts, "voodoo dolls", the power of hair/nail clippings of victims in magic, the use of totem figures in hunting societies, and birth/rebirth gods in planting cultures.
Certainly one of the underlying points, that Christ is "of a type" which is particularly suited to an agricultural lifestyle -- death/rebirth god, communion of grain and wine, close community values -- raises a strong suggestion why post-industrial suburban existance seems lacking in meaningful symbols, and many people are experiancing an "age of anxiety" -- its as misplaced as asking a greek vineyard worker to do a Buffalo Dance, wrong symbols for the wrong epoch.
I quattro (o cinque, essendo l’ultimo diviso in 2 parti) corposi volumi “Le maschere di dio”, nei quali Joseph Campbell investiga con molto acume l’origine delle mitologie, delle religioni e dell’arte dai popoli primitivi fino all’epoca moderna, spaziando da oriente a occidente per tutto il globo alla ricerca di una comune radice, residente, per tutti, nella mente umana creatrice e distruttrice di divinità come di idee spirituali e poetiche, sono un'opera che, per quanto datata (risale agli anni '60), è ancora estremamente suggestiva e affascinante. Si legge con la fluidità di un romanzo, risultando, in molte sue parti, avvincente.
Campbell is an incredible source of knowledge and for the first 350 pages he really shows it, it's almost awe inspiring the way he links and dances between different schools of thought and cultures and how they naturally link metaphysically and literally.This book isn't perfect though.
Specifically his use of psychoanalysis in the Freudian vain which is sex obsessed and boring and really brings no insight, but he's a product of his time, so this isn't a real criticism but something that bothered me personally.
Some sections are straight up boring and the last 120 pages had me struggling.But dang baby, those first 350 pages...amazing.
Re-reading. This is bk 1 of 4 vol work. I read the 1st time as a graduate student yrs ago and find myself drawn back to this 4 vol work every 10 yrs or so. Stunning, stoking, how one man could hold the sum total of world mythology and religious tradition in his head, chelate and analyze thru the lens of modern psychology and archeology, and tell us all abt it in a way that is accessible and makes sense.
In graduate school, when I asked my beloved mentor, Freudian/Lacanian David Wagenknecht about Carl Jung, his response was, "I dunno: a little too Joseph Campbell for me." There is no better or smarter human on earth than David and so I didn't read either Jung (who I worship) or Campbell (who I now really, really love) for many years.
I think the wait was just fine for me (sorry Dave) but I know I will be reading at least Campbell's Masks of God for the rest of my life (and perhaps also his Skeleton's Key to Finnegans Wake at least twice more).
I love these four books.
I like other cultures myths.
I like finding out what sustains other groups of people.
This is a book i could put down and pick back up again at any time and dip into any one of the chapters.
Specifically the different cultures puberty rites where interesting to me in this book.
There are several stories in this book that talk about boys in tribes and other cultures that transition to manhood in a matter of hours or days through cultural rituals at about the age of fourteen or fifteen, and here i am at 24 still figuring it out.
Well, it's again a repetitive review of Joseph Campbell's book- It's so good! I weirdly started from the last one of this series, and ended up reading the Primitive Mythology last. Detailed, funny, insightful, as always. Again Campbell deeply yet entertainingly pulls together all the threads. I found really interesting the history of the switch from feminine/matriarchal beliefs to patriarchal. It's worth to read for everybody. Also the myths of the serpent an the maiden in relation to the Christian Bible story of Adam and Eve is enticing. Lots of incredibly fascinating stories and findings.
What Joseph Campbell lacks in objectivity he makes up for in his enthusiastic endorsement of his own personal myth, his unified psychological theory of myths. He stretches his interpretations of the myths so far that they fall apart. I am left incredulous. I would like to find a more objective work on historical and comparative mythology. One with a more clear and concise writing style.I could only manage to make it half way through the first volume before I considered his work a waste of time.
I read every Joseph Campbell book I could get my hands on. He charismatically brings stuffy church teachings, zany mythology events or stories, historical events in cave man time, inner conflict and all the diverse religions in the world to one concept. Joseph explains the abstract so that the reader 'gets' the symbolism without having to interpret it; he shows one how to experience the real and points out when and why the masks go on. I just love his teachnigs~~~
nothing schematic in this series (perhaps unlike the more famous texts), which concerns more the working out of historical particulars--though one might discern readily enough the monomyth thesis working in the background. this volume concerns an antiquity that is barely evidenced, and tries to trace hunter-gather religion, the beliefs of late troglodytes, and other things found under upturned stones.
Like a lot of generalists, he probably overreaches, but still, there are riches here. I haven't anything like "finished" this book, or the others in the series, and don't expect to in my lifetime. But they will be an ongoing source of reference and inspiration.
The material is verbose, dry, and dated at times; however, the detail is profound . . . a wealth of information. Recommended for anyone interested in mythology.
Myth combines or takes up three related images of existence in its creation - those of the child (play, imagination, freedom), the poet (imagination, passion, the word) and the monstrous or daemonic (the divine, force, freedom).
It is a dangerous space, at the limits of life and death, and its opening and sustained play demand passionate suffering and sacrifice.
This is the realm not of the head, but of the heart.This mythical space is expressed not only through the verbal myth, the myth as tale, but as a way of life, of relating to the sacred.
The Masks of God: Primitive Mythology (1959) by Joseph Campbell is the first book of four in a massive attempt to connect the cultures and religions of the world.
Campbell begins this endeavor far back into history, well beyond the birth of language and later civilization by discussing the natural history of the gods and the psychology of myth.
Simultaneously, he discusses the creation of the Story that grew into Myth and finally into Religion (i.e., a priesthood) within these cultural hot spots which would sprout civilizations across the globe in Europe, the Middle East, India, and Asia.
Mitología Primitiva es el primero de cuatro volúmenes, que constituyen la magna obra Las Máscaras de Dios.
Dentro de la mitología comparada hay mucho libro churro con pretensiones de Rama Dorada, pero Joseph Campbell es, para mí, sino el mejor mitólogo, de los mejores.
Todo ello, para observar cómo la raza humana se ha desarrollado en una única sinfonía espiritual que la ha llevado a utilizar y desarrollar temas anteriores.
Que parece obvio cuando se reedita una obra de estas características, pero que muchas editoriales no hacen.Deseando leer Mitología Oriental...
Using archaeology, psychology, anthropology, and mythology, Joseph Campbell tracks the development of myths and religions as closely as realistically possible for pre-literate man.I was fascinated by the development of planting societies myths and their associated imagery.
It was grotesquely captivating to read about planting societies use of human sacrifices as a way to re-enact the growth, death, and rebirth cycle of the plant world.Hunter-gather civilizations tended to avoid human sacrifices and instead opted for shamanism.
I would have given this book 4 stars either way but I was happy to see his conclusions.I won't give 5 stars because Campbell's writing can be intellectually dense.
Campbell believes there's "one fund of mythological motifs" that might have a biological basis and can be seen in myths found around the world with "such themes as the fire-theft, deluge, land of the dead, virgin birth, and resurrected hero." In the book he seeks to make a "sketch of the natural history of the gods and heroes." In pre-literate cultures he often looks to ritual.
"Ritual is mythology made alive." He sees a different morphology in the hunter/gather cultures with their shamanistic rituals and what he sees as a more female-oriented early planter societies, then another major shift when we move to the city-state, sacred king and regicidal sacrifices that support the new world order by linking the hierarchy on earth to the heavenly order of planets and the stars.
A beautifully moving and poetic journey, to a time before time.My second Joseph Campbell, after The Hero with a Thousand faces.Here, we journey to the beginning of man and myth.
Prepare to be wowed by stories of gory sacrifice, myths of toothed vaginas, the beginning of art, and connections of myth to psychology.
Read this, and you'll have a more complete sense of your place, as a human, in society.It's so much fun, reading something like this, and getting a true sense that everything is connected.
Sure, sometimes maybe you disagree with Campbell's views, but to write a book like this--you have to be bold!
In this book, Campbell makes a compelling argument for diffusionist theory as it pertains to mythology.
As with other works focused on mythology and religion, Campbell's work places into perspective the human need to organize and rationalize the universe and our role in it.
This basic need is the driver for all religious/mythological movement and seeing the similarities in ideal is both refreshing (everyone has sought for their place) and frustrating (people continue to fixate on the how of worship rather than the why) at the same time.
Really interesting proposal by the author, but I don't think he accomplished.The author spends too much time describing rituals and making assumptions with (what seems) little information.
In the chapters about periods, he often goes back or forth in time to remember from where the myth comes or what it affected, but if you're not sharp about obscures period's name or forgotten civilizations (obviously my case) it's really confusing.I recommend reading the first and last part of the book, and the conclusion, I think it gives you enough information about what he wanted to transmit without the bother of reading the book.I'm still hopeful about the sequencial books, because the myths are more recent and the author had more material to work on.
So I stepped knee-deep in Campbell's world, and I came out soaked.I learned a lot, and this is only volume 1 of 4.
From his ideas on the origin of mythology in general, to his ideas on separate stories from around the world, I was never left without information to digest.The only complaint I have is that it was so scholarly.
I was bombarded with dates and anthropological ages left and right.
I can rectify that myself.Oh well, now to find something fun to read before I move on to volume 2.
2010.0924-2010.1222Primitive Mythology is Campbell's first volume of The masks of God. This insightful, enjoyable, and slightly bizarre text is an interesting intersection of several disciplines, anthropology, history, phycology, and myth.
The text is a bit dense in subject material and suffers (only slightly) from Campbell characteristic rambling.
Several over arching theses seamed to be articulated late and not fully formed.
At points I had to ask myself, what the point of given passages where.
With these negative aspects stated I have to admit that I loved this book.
Campbell is worth reading and this book has been on my reading queue for about 7 years now.

this is the first Campbell I'd read, and because much of it is based on anthropology that was current when he wrote and revised it (both decades ago), I have to say I took some of his conclusions with a little salt.
But the wealth of information here about ancient cultures from the paleolithic to the premodern is amazing.
Great store of folk tales, crazy stuff about early kingdoms where the monarchs were ritually sacrificed.
Very Freudian, a lot of it, and I'm not sure how well that stuff stores, either, but a worthwhile read for certain.
I have re-watched and re-watched, and will continue to re-watch the PBS interviews with Bill Moyers.
It's what drives me to keep trying to get through this book.
But, sadly, I have not succeeded this time around.
I enjoy rifling through and falling upon Campbell's glorious and very real descriptions of mythologies surrounding creation and deity worship.
But when it comes to reading the book straight through, uh uh, not this time.
Maybe next time.
I am sure I will continue to enjoy Joseph Campbell's work in this helter skelter method for the rest of my natural life.
WHEW! This book took forever to read! As fascinating (and repulsive) Campbell's observations on primitive mythology are, I could only read a few pages at a time before falling asleep or putting it aside for easier entertainment. I won't deny that parts of this book were simply above and beyond my intellect and archeological education, but a textbook (even an extremely well-written textbook) is still a textbook. I can't recommend this book to anyone but those pursuing a study of these themes as a career.
