https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/988123.Tootle
But Bill, head engineer of the School for Engines and "The Mayor Himself" taught you that it was foolish for an engine to get lost looking at hollyhock flowers when he could be the fastest flyer since "old 300".Yes, a children's book that touts the importance of the coal blackned lungs of the Industrial Revoultion in place of the Romantic reverance of nature.
Tootle, you're a flyer train- you know your place-now get back to work!
This is quite possibly the worst book written for children.
It's all about "staying on the tracks no matter what." A little engine finds that he likes playing in a meadow, with the birds and bugs and flowers, and the whole town conspires against him to keep him on the track.
There's one illustration where he's sobbing and the all white town is gleefully trying to get him out of the meadow.
Is he supposed to represent the devil- the black nuisance in the all white, orderly little 50's town?
Please burn every copy you see of this book.
My child was wild about this book at at two could pretty much recite it. It's cute and Tootle is adorable. The illustrations are charming. As for those who are so worried that it preaches conformity, please try growing up a bit. It preaches discipline, actually, which is quite different from conformity. My son today is an artist and writer. He has and has always had a great imagination.
Here is how I summarize the themes in this book: Your greatest desire should be to put yourself into the service of a large industrial system, and the best way to get that desire is to rigidly follow all the rules. Literally don't stop to smell the flowers, and don't think outside the box.
I used to read this all the time! Other than the fact trains can't run off the tracks to have a good time in the meadow, it's a fun read!Side note: I agree with another review that it does not preach conformity. I think it's a great little story that teaches us to "stay on the right track!"
Such a fun and friendly book about a fun and friendly train.
Some give this 1945 children’s book low ratings for teaching a message of “staying on the rails,” criticizing the implicit message that children should remain within the boundaries set for them instead of exploring all the world has to offer.
I give it a low rating for the opposite reason.
But despite the main character repeatedly breaking the central rule given to him (a rule designed not just for his own safety, but for the safety of those around him), there are ultimately no consequences for his blatant disobedience.
And he only stops being disobedient for selfish reasons.
If you want to teach your children to conform to the cowardly whims of group think, to embrace conformity, and to "stay on the tracks" outlined by authority, this is the book to give them. Free-thinkers, stay clear of this brightly-colored blot on children's literature.
On first glance Tootle seems like a cheery train story from the Golden Book glory days sweet enough to introduce to your kids today.
This is a story about knowing your place!
Forget Joy, you want to work hard you stay on those tracks...
I don’t know.
Let’s make hard workers who don’t ever dare question their place in the world.
Not sure I agree with the moral here...It does however have cute pictures of cheery little trains and your child will love those - that’s why it gets a 2 and not a 1.
Loved this book when I was a kid!
Bekah said, “I like how he was naughty but his teacher taught him how to be good.” She also compares Tootle to herself, because she sometimes goes off the tracks and has to be helped to get back on track.
The reason I go to second graders is because the book is a little long compared to other Children's books.
I would also like to say this book is good for reading to kids with ADHD, it explains that it's okay to go off the tracks every now and again as long the person tries to get back on track.
Tootle is a charming classic little picture book.
Tootle, an engine designed to be a flyer, wants to leave the tracks and make daisy chains and chase butterflies, which is just a lovely and wonderful image.
But he's not allowed because engines can never ever leave the tracks, so his instructors and the town people hide in the field and throw up red flags everywhere he goes till he get back on the tracks.
Also we discussed in class how Ferdinand is such an important children's lit character because he shows a different form of masculinity, and how unfortunate that little Tootle gets conditioned a way from enjoying his love of flowers and butterflies!
One must read this book with a dirty mind, if you do that, it is possibly the funniest book of double entendre ever written.
Most people take a look at it and immediately condemn it for its written message without being able to analyze the story.
They look at what is said: "the most important thing is staying on the rails no matter what." and think "oh my God how horrible."But it's much deeper than that.
He has fun and discovers the things he likes.
Even if you choose to have fun that others say will ruin your life/chances.
As a non-comformist, I was mortified the first time I read this book as an adult (10 years ago).
Red flags?
Stay on the rails?
Ironically, I now have two preschoolers who love this book.
I keep it around so we can eventually have a discussion about its messages.
How does one start a discussion with small children about McCarthyism vs.
Always remember to Stop for a Red Flag Waving.
But most of all, Stay on the Rails No Matter What."
I only just recently read this story for the first time, and I have been an adult for many years.
At first as I read this book, I was strongly reminded of Ferdinand the bull, so I liked it.
If Ferdinand's beloved cork tree had been surrounded by red capes, they might have been the same book.
The biggest difference is, Tootles wanted to run the express line and Ferdinand did not want to leave his meadow.
I would like to think that Tootles was occasionally able to still sneak off the trains when he wasn't running the express.
OMG I hate this fucking book.
I can't even believe I took the time to look it up (I was thinking about GOOD stories for impressionable children, I believe) but once I saw it was here I had put in my 2 cents.My first reaction when reading this to my infant son one night at bedtime was: What.
Fuck?
It's one of those subliminal messages ingrained early and deep and I'm sick I didn't catch it 'til I was done.
All parents make mistakes and I'm just glad he was only 2 months old so that he couldn't internalize that message.Ugh. Fail.
I saw this children's book at a library, and instantly remembered the art work!
I had my mom read this book to me over and over again in those preschool, can't read days.
My original copy had my crayon "add on art work".
My big brother loved this story and art, too.
We both loved trains, and this story was about Toodles the engine.I noticed that there were complaints about the idea that this little story teaches people to be conformists.
Sorry, Toodles!
Overall, this book seems harmless as a story of a way to be disciplined and stay on the rails, which can be good, but I think this book may take it over the line just a little from telling a child to not think outside the box and literally, as Tootle does, not stop and smell the roses.
This book can be completely harmless, and most children probably take it as Tootle learning a lesson about listening and staying on tracks, but when read to children on the older end of the reading level spectrum, they may take it a different and possibly conforming way.
This was personally 10 times better than The Little Engine That Could and deserves 6 stars since I personally found the animations to be much more appealing, however, that is the true original version.
I had so much fun with this book and taught me to persevere through difficult times.
I can't tell you how many times I read this story.
This is a MUST HAVE for any child, in addition to first introducing them to The Little Engine That Could and then if you dare, Thomas the Engine or whatever, but honestly, that is not nearly as cool...
This is one of those books that for reasons that I can't understand, my children love.
We have the original version, and I am very glad that the book is starting to fall apart because I now have a good reason not to read it.
I love my kids and normally I will read whatever they bring to me but I always cringe when they bring this one.This books seems to be about someone who wants something but is not willing to pay the price it takes to get what they want.
They have to be forced into it.
The first few pages of this book are just heartbreakingly cute. Baby trains going to school to be big trains! Tibor Gergely illustrations! But then Tootle takes a turn for the dark side. Basically, the moral is you always need to follow the rules, do not stop to smell the flowers, do not be a non-conformist. It's long and preachy and just kind of sad. My three year old loves this book, but my husband always adds an ending of "but whenever Tootle had a day off, he liked to visit his friend the horse and smell the flowers."
There is nothing like Little Golden Books that have withstood the test of time to read and reread to your children and grandchildren.
In this story a little engine is in engine school along with other little engines and the main thing he learns is to never leave the track.
But things draw him off so the conductor has to find a way to 'trick' him back and teach him to stay.
A charming storybook that I enjoyed as a little girl and my special needs grown son enjoyed as I sat and read it to him.
This is very wordy, a little too wordy for my preschooler, but she has nonetheless asked to read it repeatedly, and I have been forced to "condense" it in some parts to keep her (and, alas, myself) interested. She doesn't seem to get the concept of what is going on; she just enjoys the pictures of the train. It's not my favorite of the classic Golden Books. I'm not sure I find the message particularly positive. It's not really as if Tootle truly learns the importance of following reasonable rules in order to succeed; he just gets tricked into succeeding.
I realized awhile back that I had never read this story before. I always got it mixed up with "The Little Engine That Could", which we read repeatedly growing up and loved! Well, I found a copy of it recently, used, and read it, but did not enjoy it as I expected to. I actually found it just plain ridiculous and irritating! Especially since the phrase "staying on the rails no matter what" is repeated about a million times. I wanted to like it, I really did, but just couldn't!
I've vaguely remembered this book forever but only found out its title again today. The artwork is almost as beautiful as i remembered it. I misremembered its lesson as being that sometimes it's okay togo off the rails and enjoy your uniqueness. (Wishful thinking + 40 years = Well, it could have happened that way.)Instead the moral is to Stay on the Rails No Matter What. Which may be why parents ever since 1945 have bought it in the first place.
Cute book. I almost think all these little books should be counted as 24 pages because of the art work even on the Title Page. For older children when I have children read it I have them read the title page also and we discuss the story, as to how well they like it. Weather they like the art work, who did the art work and if they remember hearing of that illustrator before. It is fun.
We read this one in A Family Treasury of Little Golden Books: 46 Best-Loved Stories. It is wordy but with good morals.
Beautiful images, but the story broke my heart. Tootle is a little train that likes to frolic in the meadows and makes daisy chains. All of the townspeople like Tootle so decide that they must teach him to stay on the rails no matter what. :-(
Title: TootleSeries: Little Golden BookAuthor: Gertrude CranstonGenre: Children's Rating: 3 stars A great childhood story. Not one of my favourites, but still a neat little read and a good addition to the Little Golden Books collection.
It has that great vintage feeling and drawings. But the story line is all about conformity (staying on the rails). Emerson liked it but at the end of the story I asked him if he would like having to "stay on the rails"--he enthusiastically said "no."
