https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/819138.Irish_Red
Oh, I do like Mike. That little puppy got into so much trouble, but I wanted him just the same. The second book in this series was as delightful as the first. It held excitement and wonderful characters. Well told, this story kept me reading from the first page until the last. There were a few minor words that I didn't care for, but they were few.
I read this so, so long ago that I honestly don't remember whether I liked it or not. I don't even remember the plot--I just remember the dog's name was Mike this time, and Danny was his caretaker just like for his dad. I'd skim through it to jog my memory, but I read it at school and have never owned my own copy, so that's not really an option.
You don't have to like dogs to enjoy this book. By the time you finish though, you will be not only a dog lover, but a lover of this author.
This is one of the books I read before I started keeping my book list. Even though it was years ago, I remember the story and how much I loved it.The date is estimate.
"For all his champion Irish setter blood, Mike was a misfit. Danny Pickett and his father tried everything to train him, but it was the pup himself who finally proved that he was a champion."I have enjoyed reading this series. It is a feel good book.
Not as good as Big Red, but still an excellent book and a fast read. Another old friend.
Not my favorite Kjelgaard novel but a darn good dog book.
Catching up on a few classics I apparently missed before.
(Please read responsibly!) Ruined for future dog shows after a mortal encounter with Old Majesty—a marauding bear—Red is still the best at pointing game birds.
This book, however, follows the antics and ultimate coming of age of Mike, the rambunctious, bullheaded runt of Red and Sheilah’s litter.
When he reunites with Danny and Ross he shows his delight, but it takes a near disaster on Tower Head for the dog to bond with Danny.
Is Ross right to insist that there is hope for Red’s willful son—that he will finally come around and use his native sense?
A book for dog lovers and owners of all ages.
I give credit to the book for talking about not trapping when the number of animals drops as they are important to the forest.Irish setters are wonderful dogs, beautiful, loyal, sensitive and filled with boundless energy.
They love their dogs and Jim wants to become a Irish setter trainer.
And the Irish setter Mike is the challenge Jim must overcome to show that Irish setters are great bird dogs.The book is old and a bit dated.
Still, the book is a good book especially for those who do like to work with dogs or love the wilderness of the New York mountains.
A sweet tale about a "worthless" dog who just so happens to actually not be as worthless as at first made out.It's about the bond between man and animals and betraying that trust.
I think it's also about speciality and the fact that you might be specialized in one type of dog but not in another, which can then be related forward to other things in life such as just because you are old or 'experienced' doesn't mean you know better than someone else.
very interesting to see how a human perceives animals to think.

This was a fantastic sequel to Big Red!
I loved following Mike's journey to becoming a mature dog.
Mike's was a coming-of-age story, and he went from a mischievous, unruly renegade of a puppy, to a woods-wise, independent, and loyal dog.
Mike is a character that has to learn some hard lessons in order to figure out that cockiness isn't always an asset.
Great nature details pervade the book, as well as fascinating descriptions of canine behavior.
Great read!
For my feelings in further detail, see my review for Big Red.
A sequel to Big Red. Mike is the runt of the litter of Big Red and Sheila's pups, and will never amount to anything-so Danny Pickett and everyone else but his dad, Ross, think. But it will take a combination of events to tame the rebel Irish red's heart, and cause him to prove to them all that a champion is inside.
Jim Kjelgaard spins a wonderful story about a boy and his dog. When I was 8, I read this book and have read it over again several times. The bonding that takes place between Danny and Mike make this a good feel story. It also illustrates the dangers of the weather, the wild, and ultimately, how to survive.
This sequel to Big Red was much much more enjoyable to read. Again, this is probably because Kjelgaard focused more on the thoughts and adventures of the dog, Mike, than the humans. I like when he writes that way. The dog names are admittedly...odd. Mike? Eileen? Weird names for dogs... Overall, a great tale of a misfit dog coming out on top.
Big Red is the best of this series. I find the author astute in his understanding of dog behavior and their relationships with humans, but a bit too repetitive in his descriptions of the dogs, personification of the dogs.
This is one of my favorite dog books from childhood. Even though it's the sequel to "Big Red", I read this one first and I actually enjoy the story more. This book will make you fall in love with Irish Setters.
An unruly headstrong Irish Setter runt gets a new start and makes the most of it. In the end, the carefree Irish Setter beats the stiffly trained robotic English Setter. No matter the bread, whipping and overly training a dog into submission is no way to raise a true and stylish hunter.
Mike, what can you say about him? He may have been born a misfit, but in this sequel to Big Red, he proves he has the heart, courage, love & loyalty his father has. It is a heartwarming story of the underdog overcoming adversity to come out on top.
Jim Kjelgaard's Irish Setter books are the ultimate boy-and-his-dog adventure stories. Although it has been a very long time since I read them, I do remember that they completely enthralled me at the time, and captured my heart and imagination.
Excellent sequel to Big Red
Dogs
I read this last year after re-reading "Big Red." This is also a top flight book even though it is written for kids.
JAR5-Kje
these are the best books ive ever read. all i can think about is when me and my dad go trapping when im reading this
I love books about animals. And dogs are some of my favorites.
After reading Big Red for the upteen millionth time, I finally expanded to the other Red books and read them about 20 million times, too. My mom still wouldn't let me get an Irish setter, though.
A perfect choice for kids who love books like "Hatchet."Loved it.
my copy is from scholastic and states 10 printing 1968
