https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/302666.The_Hawkline_Monster
just don't fuck up a second time.i read this brautigan novel with trepidation.
are you distressed that i have already used variants of the word "fuck" twice in the first fifty or so words?then you will probably not like richard brautigan.
(i love the angry southerner's review of this - teehee)maureen assured me that this was a "good" brautigan book.
(princess neither does her own taxes nor leaves her own library-rental paper trail) and it was not at all bad.pretty enjoyable, in fact.
who can find the words?i am going to magnanimously let greg read this book before he returns it to the library.
We've kept the door locked ever since our father disappeared.""What does it sound like?" Cameron said."It sounds like the combination of water being poured into a glass," Miss Hawkline said.
Brautigan's work seems a precursor to Bizarro fiction only it's no where near as good as most of the Bizarro stuff I've read.
There are some funny bits and I never completely lost interest, hence my very weak three-star rating.But...all of my reading life, Brautigan has been painted as some sort of literary god.
In hardback, first editions, no less.You see, my father was a Brautigan fan.
اگه حالوهواتون یه طوریه که یه داستان خلخلی و جمعوجور میخواین اما نه جلف و زرد(حالا از جلدش که بگذریم :دی) هیولای هاوکلاین بیاندازه خوبه. بیاندازه. هم طنزه، هم داستان داره، هم از نظر ادبی در نوع خودش جالبه و بازیهای خاصی داره، هم ماجراهاش سرگرمکنندهن، بعضی دیالوگها و واکنشها اینقد عالیان که یه لحظه میخوای براتیگان کنارت باشه بزنی روی شونهش بگی ماشالا داداچ. :))) ریویوی بهداد و عماد هم اینقد خوب بودن که من فقط اومدم بزنم روی شونههاشون. :همر:
اگه حال‌وهواتون یه طوریه که یه داستان خل‌خلی و جمع‌وجور می‌خواین اما نه جلف و زرد(حالا از جلدش که بگذریم :دی) هیولای هاوکلاین بی‌اندازه خوبه. بی‌اندازه. هم طنزه، هم داستان داره، هم از نظر ادبی در نوع خودش جالبه و بازی‌های خاصی داره، هم ماجراهاش سرگرم‌کننده‌ن، بعضی دیالوگ‌ها و واکنش‌ها این‌قد عالی‌ان که یه لحظه می‌خوای براتیگان کنارت باشه بزنی روی شونه‌ش بگی ماشالا داداچ. :))) ریویوی بهداد و عماد هم این‌قد خوب بودن که من فقط اومدم بزنم روی شونه‌هاشون. :همر:
هیولای هاوکلاین یک روایت است که ماجراهای دو هفتتیرکش و قاتل حرفهای به نامهای "گریر" و "کامرون" را برای مخاطب بازگو میکند اما در عین حال هیولای هاوکلاین تنها یک رمان درباره زندگی دو قاتل نیست و در لایههای عمیقتر تغییر فرهنگ غرب را به سوی مدرنیته بررسی میکند.در همین راستا که دو کاراکتر داستانی از اورگان به شهری دورافتاده سفر میکنند و این سفر که برای انجام ماموریتی صورت پذیرفته هست کمکم به جستوجو در تاریخ غرب تغییر شکل میدهد و براتیگان با استفاده از سمبل ها و تمثیلهای مختلف بخشی از تاریخ ایالات متح
«هیولایِ هاوکلاین»، یک وسترن گوتیک است که دنیای وسترن را به سخره می گیرد و المان های وحشت و وسترن یک به یک نقض می شوند همان گونه که این موضوع در رمان "رویای بابل" صورت گرفت؛ یک کتاب ضد وسترنی تمام عیار و شاید درست تر یک کتاب نقض کننده وسترنی با تمام المانهای آن.هیولای هاوکلاین که تلفیقی از رمان وسترن و گوتیک است و بخشی از تمدن آمریکایی را به مخاطب نشان می‌دهد، روایت یک نویسنده است که در بستری از خشونت شکل می‌گیرد و او با زبان تمثیل زندگی دو قاتل را به یک داستان هیجان‌انگیز تبدیل می‌کند که با زبان طنز همراه شده است.
And so it is with a playful gothic tale The Hawkline Monster.“They did not look tough or mean.
The drop was as sudden as the motion of a knife.” And this is the seat of evil.There is an allusion to Thanatopsis, a mysterious and a little bit mystical poem by William Cullen Bryant in the book:“Where rolls the Oregon, and hears no sound, Save his own dashings – yet the dead are there: And millions in those solitudes, since first The flight of years began, have laid them down In their last sleep – the dead reign there alone.”Probably it was one of the stimuli to write this unique gothic fable, where everything, right from the start and straight to the end, defies every rule of every genre…
I grabbed this one because it said Gothic Western on the cover. It was a really odd one. The writing is simplistic but has a bit of a hypnotic quality. I'll read more Brautigan if I happen across them.
The Hawkline Monster by Richard BrautiganMy rating: 3 of 5 starsA Gothic Western 'This sure is a weird place,' Greer said. 'It ain't any weirder that Hawaii,' Cameron said. As it turned out, Cameron was wrong. Blurb: It is the beginning of the 20th century. A huge yellow house stands in a field of frost in the Dead Hills of East Oregon. In the basement of the house are The Chemicals.The Chemicals were Professor Hawkline's lifework - but the Professor has disappeared and his lifework must be c
The Hawkline Monster by Richard BrautiganMy rating: 3 of 5 starsA Gothic Western
In the basement of the house are The Chemicals.The Chemicals were Professor Hawkline's lifework - but the Professor has disappeared and his lifework must be completed by his two beautiful daughters...Who lay in bedrooms upstairs with two professional killers, Greer and Cameron.
Meanwhile, in the ice caves below the house, the Hawkline Monster laughs and roars.Thoughts: I must admit that I have been reading outside my comfort zone with this one.
My knowledge of the western genre consists of a few interesting movies (my favourite being perhaps McCabe & Mrs Miller) and the general idea of John Wayne and Clint Eastwood that has become synonymous with the genre.
Main Characters and About Them:Cameron counts.
Cameron fucks too though.
Cameron and Greer also both kill people.
Miss Hawkline fucks.
Miss Hawkline and Magic Child also both want to be rid of an evil (or at least highly inconsiderate) entity that dwells beneath their house.
Cameron and Greer also both want to kill this entity because they will get paid.
But sometimes both Cameron and Greer and both Miss Hawkline and Magic Child would rather fuck or eat than kill the entity.
Cameron counts everything; shots fired, hoof clops clopped, silverware.
وقتی شروع شد با خودم گفتم به نظر کار ضعیفتری میاد. ولی هرچی جلوتر رفت بیشتر جذبش شدم!به شدت خلاقانهس و فانتزی و جذاب، طوری که اصلن نمیتونی حدس بزنی چه اتفاقی داره میفته و گاهی چیزایی توش رخ میده که از شدت سادگی و احمقانگی قهقهه میزنی!عالی!
وقتی شروع شد با خودم گفتم به نظر کار ضعیف‌تری میاد. ولی هرچی جلوتر رفت بیشتر جذبش شدم!به شدت خلاقانه‌س و فانتزی و جذاب، طوری که اصلن نمی‌تونی حدس بزنی چه اتفاقی داره میفته و گاهی چیزایی توش رخ می‌ده که از شدت سادگی و احمقانگی قهقهه می‌زنی!عالی!
I feel like I've read this book before, though.
But the whole détournement of the Western and the of the myths of the American West, you know the cowboys and indians and shit like that I know I've read before.
I can imagine in the 60's-80's when this theme was worked on quite a bit was a exorcism of sorts for authors and readers who had grown up immersed in the myths of the American West, John Wayne and Gunsmoke.
I liked this book well enough but not enough to make me want to venture into the dangerous, childish nihilism that I imagine most of Brautigan's other books to be seeped in.
How many gothic westerns are there? I read this long ago and remember it fondly.
Video reviewA postmodern House on the Borderland. If you thought Cortazar's "House Taken Over" was already that, hey you're good, and also, that's intellectual postmodernism; this is the crazy hippy variety.Guns, laughs, random sex and an actual monster: what else you need?
Essentially functioning as one extended deadpan joke, "The Hawkline Monster" is a strange story told straightforwardly.
The wholly original voice Brautigan creates depends in large part upon the originality of his story, which, in large part, depends on its weirdness.
There's something inherently satisfying about the off-the-wall creations Brautigan comes up with here, but you'll also be reading for their comedic payoff.
And though the book can be read in one sitting, I found myself extending it for five days because I didn't want it to end.

کتابهای براتیگان همیشه و بی هیچ دلیل واضحی خوشخوانن و احتمالا این به نثر روون کتابهاش و طنز ظریفی که به کار میبره برمیگرده. شاید این کتاب بهترین اثر براتیگان نباشه و در مواردی خواننده از بیاتفاقی و خط داستانی مستقیم و بیفراز و نشسیب اون کسل میشد اما حرفی برای گفتن داشت و من بدجوری دلم میخواد هیولا، سایه و غار یخی رو به موضوعات روانکاوی ربط بدم.
کتاب‌های براتیگان همیشه و بی هیچ دلیل واضحی خوش‍خوانن و احتمالا این به نثر روون کتابهاش و طنز ظریفی که به کار می‌بره برمی‌گرده. شاید این کتاب بهترین اثر براتیگان نباشه و در مواردی خواننده از بی‌اتفاقی و خط داستانی مستقیم و بی‌فراز و نشسیب اون کسل می‌شد اما حرفی برای گفتن داشت و من بدجوری دلم می‌خواد هیولا، سایه و غار یخی رو به موضوعات روانکاوی ربط بدم.
Just like I always say, whiskey solves everything.
i can't even really begin to think about understanding why this book is so great. on the one hand, it's simplicity itself; on the other, it's a big shimmering cloud of mystery that floats through your eyes and into your brain and then turns to diamonds when you close the book. so, yeah, i liked it.
He visto que en algunos lugares se refieren a “El monstruo de Hawkline” como una novela, pero para mí se ajusta más a las características de un cuento, por su estilo directo y sin muchos adornos, por el número de sus personajes, por la sencillez de su argumento y por esa especie de poso de calidez mágica que dejan los buenos cuentos al terminarlos y que reconfortan como las hogueras alrededor de las cuales el hombre empezó a contarlos.
De hecho eso fue lo primero que sentí no bien había rebasado los primeros capítulos, su calidez, y la sensación de que Brautigan estaba contándonos y contándose una historia alrededor de un fuego al que quería convertir con sus palabras en hogar, en refugio, para todos.
A very light read, its only about 150 pages or so and Brautigan uses a very minimalist, trimmed down language in this dark story.
Not only does this style make it extremely easy to read, it aptly sets the mood for the story through the eyes of the stark, simple, no-nonsense gunslingers, Cameron and Greer.
Billed as a "Gothic Western", which is actually a very appropriate description, this is a turn-of-the-20th-Century story of two old west-type gunslingers approached by a mysterious Indian woman on behalf of the remote Miss Hawkline.
This can be said of a lot of works, sure, but in particular a book like this is going to disappoint or satisfy based on what you come into a book looking for.When I read, I want to be entertained, first and foremost.
He asks the reader to suspend belief and use imagination, and in turn, the reader is rewarded with a story that feels like anything can happen, and is exciting in that Willy Wonka "Where the hell is he taking us?" train ride sort of way (but way less creepy).So you see, if you want a trajectory that's clearly defined, if your need for order is greater than your appreciation for chaos, then this isn't the kind of thing you're going to dig on.It's also not necessarily a book that's filled with a ton of deeper meaning, though I don't know that a solely shallow read is entirely fair, either.
شخصیت های بدون ثبات ، دیالوگ های گاها بی معنی و ساده لوحانه ، هجو های زیاد و در حاشیه ، توصیفات غیر ضروری و در عین حال القای بهترین نما از دوران وسترن ، ویژگی هایی از ادبیات متن هستند که شیوه ی های معمول داستان نویسی را به چالش می کشند و باعث جذابیت بالای سبک خاص این کتاب شده اند .
این طلیعه قرن بیستم بود.»احتمالا برای تعبیر استعاره های کتاب و مفاهیم پشت هر قسمت آن باید به همان حال و هوای اوایل قرن بیستم مراجعه کرد .
Hawkline Monster - Purchased this book with tax payer dollars soon after becoming director, ("chief, cook and bottle washer") of a then 12,000 population "Cowboy" county library.
I enjoyed Brautigan's creativity.
Sometimes felt it justifiable to buy other books by him, for a limited audience of local readers.
Near Bend, one of the places I enjoyed visiting was a down sloping ice cave, in which the regrowing quilt of ice had covered the lower steps of a wooden stairway that had led to a former ice harvesting operation.
Scary place.
When seeing this title that cave comes to mind.
There are no longer Brautigan books in the library.
It happened that Sep was Western genre month so this being a 'gothic western' and liking the cover, I decided to give it a chance.
A very easy, flowing read and a quirky interesting story.
The gist being that two gunslingers are hired by a young woman to come to Oregon to kill a monster that resides in the ice caves below their house in Oregon.
I liked the two gunslingers, Cameron and Greer, both straight-forward, easy going hitmen, hitmen with standards and ethics.
I liked the Hawkline sisters.
At times it's almost childish, the story, but it held my interest and I enjoyed it thoroughly.
The Hawkline Monster Blues THUD. THUD.THUD.THUD. Thud Whack Ping. Thud Whack Ping.Thud Whack Ping.Thud Whack Ping.Thud Whack Ping. rest. Thud Whack Ping. rest. (view spoiler)[Verse 1 (hide spoiler)]La da da-da-da da.Thud Whack Ping. rest. Thud Whack Ping. La da-da-da Da. Thud Whack Ping. rest. Thud Whack Ping. Said, LA DA DA-DA-DA DA!Thud Whack Ping. rest.Thud Whack Ping. LA DA-DA-DA DA!Thud Whack Ping. rest. Thud Whack Ping. rest. LA DA DA-DA-DA DA DA...rest. LA-DA DA DA DA DA. Thud Whack Ping
The Hawkline Monster Blues
THUD. THUD.THUD.THUD. Thud Whack Ping. Thud Whack Ping.Thud Whack Ping.Thud Whack Ping.Thud Whack Ping. rest. Thud Whack Ping. rest. (view spoiler)[Verse 1 (hide spoiler)]La da da-da-da da.Thud Whack Ping. rest. Thud Whack Ping. La da-da-da Da. Thud Whack Ping. rest. Thud Whack Ping. Said, LA DA DA-DA-DA DA!Thud Whack Ping. rest.Thud Whack Ping. LA DA-DA-DA DA!Thud Whack Ping. rest. Thud Whack Ping. rest. LA DA DA-DA-DA DA DA...rest. LA-DA DA DA DA DA. Thud Whack Ping. rest. Thud Whack Ping. rest....
This little gem is is for all of you who love pure imagination accompanied by a wickedly dark sense of humor. Its a metaphorical masterpiece.
Great meditation on psychedelic fantastical realism. Couldn't put this one down.
My favorite Brautigan novel so far. The Hawkline sisters, the two western hit men, the shadowy presence, the giant/dwarf butler, and the elephant foot umbrella stand. It deserves to be a Cohen brother's movie.
نخستین برخورد من با جناب آقای ریچارد براتیگان شهیر، برخورد بسیار دلپذیری بود.تا جایی که اطلاع دارم این کتاب جزو بهترین کار هاش نیست، اما با این وجود فوق العاده بود.داستان بسیار هوشمندانه بود، قلم نوشته به حدود عالی ظریف و لطیف بود و نکاتی که میشد توی متن پیدا کرد، خواننده رو تخت تاثیر قرار می داد.
این عنصر شاعرانگی توی تمام بخش های کتاب وجود داره و کشش بینظیری به نیمه اول کتاب که تقریبا روایت و داستانی درش نیست میده.این کتاب، به سه کتاب به نام های هاوایی، دوشیزه هاوکلاین و هیولای هاوکلاین تقسیم شده، و همچنین به چندین و چندین و چند فصل.شاید مهم ترین ویژگی که من رو جذب این کتاب کرد، فصل بندی های بسیار خاصش بود.

برای داستانی شبیه داستان های موقع خواب بچه ها سر ساعت نه شب، داستان خوبی بود، بیشتر نه! اصلاً!! از براتیگان یه کتاب دیگه هم دارم که جزو 1001 کتاب هست، ولی خب، یا زودتر می خونمش بلکه نظرم نسبت بهش عوض شه، یا آخرین کتابی میشه که می خونم!!//
