https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/882258.Night_s_Master
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestMost of the highly anticipated YA fantasy novels coming out this year have been a bust for me, and I keep getting the occasional rude comment that says something like, "You're too picky/mean/etc." Well, to that, I say, "Maybe I actually know what good fantasy novels look like because I've actually read some marvels with achingly good prose that has so much pathos it just about makes you cry?" Because if that's what you're looking for, Tanit
One character connects them and that is a demon named Azhrarn who reminds me a lot of Jareth in Labyrinth in terms of his personality and abilities.
It's easy to see him as an evil villain in the beginning, but each chapter peels another layer from this character, and by the time you get to the end of the book, you see that he is much more complicated that you anticipated.I love Tanith Lee so much.
All of her stories are very dark - I love dark - but thought-provoking and interesting and original.
What in the actual fuck did I just read?Queer characters who are grooming pedophiles, women who get raped and become villains themselves only to be further punished by the narrative. I just... whatno
Tanith Lee’s Night’s Master, the first of her FLAT EARTH series, is a collection of connected stories set in Lee’s unique world.
With vivid imagery and elegant prose, they show demons meddling in human affairs, humbling men who exalt themselves, and using magic to harness the powers of music, love, and joy as well as grief, hate, and death.Night’s Master is dark, yet richly luxuriant and full of passion.
I hope this will not be as conspicuous in the second FLAT EARTH novel, Death’s Master.More reviews of Tanith Lee's books at Fantasy Literature.
4.0 stars. A beautifully written, original fantasy story that reads like mythology. The main character, Azhrarn, is the Prince of Demons. Azhrarn is extremely powerful and spends his time amusing himself, mostly by tormenting humans and creating mischief. As the story progresses through a series of interlinked tales, we see Azhrarn transform from malevolent trickster to Christ-like savior and then back again. A very good book and certainly an excellent choice if you are looking for sonething a little different. Recommended!!Nominee: World Fantasy Award for Best Novel.
One night, Azhrarn Prince of Demons, one of the Lords of Darkness, took on him, for amusement, the shape of a great black eagle.
East and west he flew, beating with his vast wings, north and south, to the four edges of the world, for in those days the earth was flat and floated on the ocean of chaos.
Another one of those I'm not even going to pretend to be objective about.
4.5 starMagnificently strange and otherworldly. Feels like a weird dream from which I don't want to wake.
More penetration!"Seriously, though, this book was kind of hard for me to rate.
Gods clothed in butterflies, beautiful demons, magic trees, flying ships made of dragon bone, other realms above the clouds, and the mouth of hate itself all populate Lee's strange, almost surreal world.
Many times during this book I cared less about the story and more about just wanting to walk around and experience this incredible place that her intense imagination dreamed up for us.Besides that, Lee's trademark touches are here (or at least what little I know about her).
Tanith Lee is a veritable master of the macabre. Her stories are stunningly lush, fever dreams of someone who loves the dark, but remembers that maybe others will not. This is a book of mythology whose focus is not that of the gods or mortal heroes, but of demons. Finally, when the protagonists do the terrible things our gods so often are said to have done, you understand why.CONTENT WARNING: (view spoiler)[ incest, rape (both statutory and graphic), death, torture, war (hide spoiler)]Things to
Likely gonna offend those with strong notions of Hell and God. Absolutely room to hate what demonkind does to mankind, and dislike reading about the trials of those featured in the stories.
(I counted 2.5 weird sex, 2 rapes, and 1 that was either a weird sex, a rape, or just something demons do, I'm not really sure.) I prefer to be warned of this content in stories, and I will say, as yucky or horrible as most of it was, it never once felt like it was being used to make me, the reader, feel a certain way, or without consequence/significance to the beings compromised.-No cohesive story.
Talk about demonic.I love her short stories, and I love mythology, even when it gets rill weird.
At first this book seemed very strange to me. At the end I was hooked ! What a great book, the author has a beautiful imagination and is great at telling stories, this isn't a lengthy very descriptive novel but it is fantastic the way the author writes is like a poem. Loved it will keep reading these strange books and will be reading the authors other works :)
I've re-read this book several times and I feel so few people know about it - so why not recommend it.
Warning: this will be a very subjective review, because it's one of my favorite books - if not THE favorite book.I happened to come across it only a year or two ago, as I heard of Tanith Lee and wanted to try her writing.
The prose is the first thing you will fall in love with - it's rich, fluent, so very vibrant that you will re-read sentences just for the pleasure of it.The plot - well, if you are searching for another Tolkien, you will be perhaps disappointed.
The language used was masterful, descriptions written in almost over-the-top, fanciful ways that never felt pretentious or overblown.
Since it is written in short tales, Night's Master was never overwhelming, or pushy in its way.
A beautiful love existed and that was enough.
Still, it was—despite its intricacies—a strikingly easy book to read.
Easy to lose yourself, in a way that makes you unsure when it is finished if you ever really knew yourself to begin with.
Upon finishing it, I realized it hands-down held the place of my favorite book of all time.
Night's Master's story is told in the form of three sets of interleaved short stories, each of those three mostly unconnected with each other aside from the setting and the titular character, Azhrarn.
Over and above that, Azhrarn punishes all equally: the virtuous and the wicked, those who fall under his spell and those who resist it.This seemingly bleak fantasia is counterbalanced by lush decadence.
It's so prettily written that it's easy to fall into this weird world full of dizzy feeling that follows its own alien rules, where beauty and horror lie side-by-side on earth, with Underearth's wondrous palaces, and the waters of Lethe, beneath it.
I really didn't like this much (1.5 stars rounded down), so I'm going to forgo my usual format and just say give a few sentences so I can move on.In general I don't much care for short stories, and this book is essentially a collection of loosely related short stories.
I don't have a problem with sex in books, but it's not something I actively seek out either.
I think that was maybe 2 or 3 chapters out of the whole book though so that leaves me very little enjoyment.I'm not sure if there are other books by Tanith Lee I'd enjoy but this book pretty much put me off the rest of her work completely.
Fantasy author Tanith Lee takes inspiration from The Arabian Nights and Tales of the Dying Earth to tell a series of interconnected tales of the demon Azhrarn and the mortals with whose lives he toys. Lee uses a storytelling-style similar to that used by Ursula K. Le Guin in A Wizard of Earthsea to give the collection a mythical flavor. Unfortunately none of the story content is more than mildly interesting and much of it, including some truly bizarre sexual content, will be seen by many modern readers as revolting.
Once in a very great while, we encounter a perfect book.
Tanith Lee's NIGHT'S MASTER is just such a work.
I won't say "I wish I could give it ten stars" because in truth, Lee's collection of interwoven short stories rises well above the conventional star system.
Flat Earth is a place where imagination is completely set free.
Engaging, passionate, sensual, and cruel; with surprising and fulfilling moments of true heroism.
Told with prose that reads like poetry.
I could keep raving about it, but really, YOU should be reading the story instead.
Get a copy of this book.
You won't regret it.
I don't often do re-reads but as this one was very short at less than 250 pages I thought I would check it out with adult eyes.The structure of this book, and the sequels, is just a series of short stories all set in the same world with constant gods and themes.
For that reason it reads a lot like The Arabian Nights: Tales of 1001 Nights, Volume 1.
But, I am still not a fan of this type of book where there it's just a series of stories with no overall plot.
Pretty disappointed in this one. Very depressing short stories all set in the same universe, basically a mythology without a purpose is how it appeared to me. Not going to continue the series, and I probably won’t pick up another Tanith Lee book.
I loved it. A beautiful narrative.
Readers insisting upon a strong central plot and defined set of characters will find little to enjoy here.
Lee draws from fairy tale and mythology for a drifting, dreamlike experience where each "book" (Light Underground, Tricksters, and The World's Lure) is independent aside from theme, and each of which is subdivided further, into "parts" and chapters.
64) This language occasionally works against itself: when speaking of physical love, it uses over-the-top metaphor, and reads like the very worst of gushy, flowery romance novels.
Here the scarred, crippled girl does not earn the love of the young king.
This is one of the best fantasy books ever, and a book I've reread countless times.
The amazing thing about Tanith Lee's language is how rich it is, and paradoxically, how spare.
The sexuality in this book is groundbreaking, especially in the way it's integrated within the story and the mythos.
This is a profoundly queer story in which sexuality and gender cannot be taken for granted (although gender really gets messed with more in the later Flat Earth books).
I'm going to write a humongous essay one day on why I worship Tanith Lee, but I'll just close this review off by saying...
MehSome of these tales remind me of Navajo stories of Coyote the Trickster. However, as I recall most or all of the Coyote tales taught some sort of lesson. Except for the final story about Hate the stories in this book seem to be just capricious and mean.Probably my least favorite Sword & Laser book so far.
4.5 stars.
This is a good book but is it unusual fantasy, not for everyone’s liking.
It is very poetic and is more like fairy tales in style than modern novel.
So, you are warned.The book consists of a score of stories, which are linked by a common world, the flat Earth, where people live, the underearth, where demons live, and the upperearth, where gods are.
Gods are almost absent from the novel, but demons are very much present and are constantly meddling in human affairs, seeding envy and discord.
When I read about her recent passing on Facebook, I decided it was time to finally see what she was all about.There were a number of things that made me select Night's Master as my first jump into Lee's writing: the book's World Fantasy Award nomination; the length (only about 250 pages?
I used to have the SFBC omnibus editions (which I got by accident--forgot to send the reply card back in time--and decided to keep) and read the first three books of the set.
I liked them a bit, but had a hard time getting into the mythical style of narration.
However, as I got older and fell in love with some of her later works, I started to feel I hadn't been fair to these books.
And having now re-read this first volume, I am so so so glad I decided to give it a second try, because my experience this time was one of sheer delight.
First in the Tales of the Flat Earth series, this book is often compared to the 1001 Arabian Nights.
While a collection of exotic stories, each linked to its predecessor, the stories are not nested and don't have a particularly Arabian flavor.
This is a minor quibble, however, as the stories are enchanting and lush."Lush" has always been the best word to describe Tanith Lee's melancholic and erotically-tinged fantasy.
The Flat Earth was the most compelling fantasy world I've encountered in some time, and I look forward to visiting it again in the next book.
This is a delightful little fantasy novel; the first in her Tales From the Flat Earth series, though it certainly works as a stand-alone novel.Night's Master reads very much like a collection of loosely linked Persian folk tales, all of which are linked to the often malicious (sometimes just callous) activities of the demon Azhram.
In most cases, the first chapters of each novella describe how Azhram drops some little pebble of malevolence into the world, and the remaining chapters follow how the ripples affect other people in the world.
Highly recommended.
I read this book as a teenager - my first Tanith Lee... I never looked back. I now have a shelf full of Lee.

It requires an overarching plot in order to transition from interlinked stories to a novel; there's just enough of one, but it's backloaded and doesn't do as much with the book's themes as I'd like.
Trauma is portrayed as a cycle of violence wherein victims become monsters and, therefore, perpetrators; Azhrarn's overarching story ties in to this, but fails to directly confront his role as instigator, undermining the book's cumulative effect.
I didn't connect with this as much as I have books with a similar structure (particularly Valente's Orphan's Tales series, which benefits from tonal and thematic variation), but it's an interesting effort.
