https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/836606.Fruits_Basket_Vol_2
🐭What another wonderful and comforting re-read of this volume of Fruits Basket!
In this volume we get to see Tohru's adorable comparison between onigiri and self love, a similie that is as adorable as it is true.
And in this world, everyone has got a pickled plum, of different shapes and sizes, colours and tastes stuck on their backs.
But because it's stuck on their backs, they may not be able to see the lovely pickled plum that's attached to them, so they'd think to themselves 'I'm nothing but plain ole rice'.
They've got their pickled plum safely stuck on their backs.
Still getting used to manga, but it's getting easier to read. Reading this series on recommendation of a really good friend. She loves the series, so I'm trying to stick with it! It's growing on me a little.
Still fun! I am excited to finally get past where the anime ended!
I do still have a crush on Hatori. *Sigh*Tohru is very sweet, but also, like...kinda dumb.
I love Fruits Basket! As I finsihed this book, it's pretty interesting about Hatori (has the spirit of the dragon). I would add this kind of quote to my profile from this volume 2:Hatori:"When snow melts, what do think it becomes?"Tohru: "Huh? Ah...Um, well...Hmm. It becomes spring! No matter how cold it is now, Spring will come again! Without fail. It's strange, isn't it? But it's true."ALSO:Hatori: Please let her... find someone who can make her happy. I pray. Even if I die surrounded by snow that never melts... I don't care. Please... Please...
Ah i so loved meeting Tohru's friends ,Uo and especially Hanajima with all her electromagnetic waves.I also so loved reading Hatori's backstory .It was so sad and touching .“To me...she was spring.
It was as if while imprisoned inside the dark cage of the inner family...I had completely frozen into snow...and then there she was--fresh, clear spring.
It was almost inevitable that..I would fall in love with her.
-Hatori”so after the snow melts , spring comesIt was so sweet watching Tohru getting along really well with the family “So let me get this straight.
Okay Tohru is so sweet. Maybe TOO sweet and upbeat. Does this girl ever get angry or frustrated?! I love her but she doesn't feel real! Momiji is adorable! I am glad we are getting to meet other members of the zodiac and getting a better glimpse of this curse. Why is the Sohma head is nasty?! I don't know if I really want to meet him. I hope he stays away for Tohru!
In questo volume incontriamo due nuovi membri della famiglia Soma e in particolare il triste passato di Hatori. Mi piace come vengono introdotti pian piano nuovi personaggi e nel mentre si approfondiscono quelli che già conosciamo. Sono contenta di aver iniziato questa serie che mi sta molto prendendo e sono curiosa di leggere il proseguo, conoscendo altri membri della famiglia, nuovi segni zodiacali e i difficili rapporti dei Soma, in particolare con il misterioso capo famiglia che voglio conoscere il prima possibile.
I dunno if I'll end up writing the same thing throughout this 20 volume series, but gosh it's cute!
Amé este segundo volumen. La historia de Hatori es muy triste y conmovedora, no pude evitar sentir afinidad por este personaje. Cada vez es más notorio como les afecta a los Soma la maldición que los aqueja. Ya quiero empezar el tercer tomo :D
I love that she went into the past of her characters and really worked hard on developing Tohru, Yuki, and Kyo as well as introducing Momiji and Hatori (and Haru but we don't learn much about him in this volume).
Really, Takaya-sensei is just an amazing person.As I've said before, she managed to develop Tohru.
I loves me my Germans~ *Squeezes Cloud* Anyway, we don't know much about him yet.
*Smiles faintly*Yeah, like I said, one of my favorite volumes of the entire manga.
I love the characters, the plot, the artwork.
She now lives in the Sohma house with three of the Sohma boys — good guy Yuki (rat), moody Kyo (cat), and pervy Shigure (dog).
Things like Tohru falling down because she was walking and thinking at the same time, and her getting excited at the most silliest things, and making really naive + idiotic remarks… It all should have been annoying but for some reason it wasn't — it was just strangely charming.-I loved Tohru's female friends.
Hana and Arisa/Uo were brilliant… They had good personalities that I felt rivaled Tohru's.
Two new characters were added: Momiji and Hatori.
The curse was developed a little bit further, but it's still a mystery overall.
It's so cute and funny most of the time like when Hana gets both Kyo and Yuki to go back to the house to spend New Years with Tohru, that was super sweet.
This installment presented the problem that Tohru's memories could be wiped by Hatori should he choose or Akito give the order.
Hatori also relives some painful memories, but has the epiphany that there's still hope for the members of the zodiac thanks to Tohru.
Update: Here's my full review!
http://www.bookishrealmreviews.com/20...This definitely was another cute installment to the Fruits Basket series.
I was especially touched by the last part where we get to see a more heartfelt side of one the characters.
It almost made me strongly dislike the curse.
I'm definitely interested in seeing where the rest of the story leads so I'll be picking up volume 3 pretty soon.
I also love how positive Tohru is.
This may only seem like a manga series, but it really made me evaluate how much I have in my life instead of wondering what I'm missing.
5/5EEEEE volume two is where the series gets good! We meet Momiji and Hatori which makes me so happy, Hatori's story makes me weep every damn time. Onto volume three!!
By volume two, she already seems to have settled on her formula for Fruits Basket:- two parts high school slice-of-life (We get the school festival out early, and often.)- two parts friendship - one part tragic backstory- one part split between fantasy and horror and romance& four parts heartwarming -- including, of course Tohru's Words of Wisdom(TM), which this volume play on the onigiri metaphor of the previous: If you think of someone's good qualities as the umeboshi in an onigiri, it's as it their qualities are stuck to their back!
Tohru - My beautiful onigiri child.3.
Volume 1 introduced the emotional and dark but funny members of the Somah Clan, as well as Tohru Honda, the naive and somehow always cheerful main character.
I must mention here, though the Somah Clan's family history is supposed to be a secret, I sense that Tohru Honda's friends seem to sense something is amiss.
No doubt, the fact Tohru Honda resides with them is a bit off...but her friends definitely detect there is more to her story than what she has been revealed to them.
A few quick notes after rereading this volume:- We meet Momiji in this book! He's just such a sweet and quirky character! It's VERY difficult to choose a favorite character, but I think Momiji would definitely be high up on a list, were I to make a list of characters from most favorite to least favorite.- Poor Yuki! (view spoiler)[ I forgot that they dressed him up in girl clothes for the festival. (hide spoiler)]- These character backgrounds are so detailed! I love rereading about Hatori's past
A few quick notes after rereading this volume:- We meet Momiji in this book!
He's just such a sweet and quirky character!
It's VERY difficult to choose a favorite character, but I think Momiji would definitely be high up on a list, were I to make a list of characters from most favorite to least favorite.- Poor Yuki!
(view spoiler)[ I forgot that they dressed him up in girl clothes for the festival.
(hide spoiler)]- These character backgrounds are so detailed!
I love rereading about Hatori's past, even if it is super sad.Well, 2 books down, 21 more to go!
I can't wait to see what happens in the final book!
I like it how the author writes about their daily life In the manga like for example they would write about their favorite video games problems or how they thought about certain parts and point things out throughout the story. The funny thing is that I actually know these video games.The most interesting thing I found was the fan art appreciation on one of the last pages of the book.
Okay so I enjoy the characters but is Yuki gay?Like I'm so confused, I can't tell if anyone's gay or not... but I feel like some of them may be. Also there are so many people popping up randomly, it's hard to follow along.I like detailed storylines and all, but jesus is this hard to follow.
I still love it so much!!!
Kyooooooo, I love him so much!!!
*Please see my review for volume 1*
Hatori is the responsible one of the older triad (of whom right now we only know Shigure but we will later meet Ayame).
That right there makes me a big fan of the author- her willingness to make every character full-bodied in their own right, even if it means taking a longer route to tell the story.(view spoiler)[ (Borrowing Wiki's description for now- may write my own later- just wanted enough that I'd remember what happened in each volume.) When Tohru's friends, Arisa Uotani and Saki Hanajima, learn of her living arrangements, they inspect them by way of a sleep-over before grudgingly approving.
Some things in the series still annoy me (like when Tohru Honda meets someone new they immediately become good friends and she "feels" like she can trust them. I mean... come on!). However, I'm going to keep reading it because I want to see what happens. I am so sad for Kana Sohma and Hatori.
One of two things happen when you reread old manga.
I missed this." Okay, there are a few variations, such as the "Lord, this is dated," but essential, it's either you're embarrassed to say you liked it or happy to rediscover a series you missed.In Fruits Basket's case, it's the "I missed this" response for me.
It doesn't feel dated.
There's nothing in here tht would really make a person go, "Ha ha, VHS..." or something similar.I've always loved Fruits Basket, and I'm glad to see that, like fine wine, it has aged well.
I'm loving the depth of this manga, and how things are similar and yet different to the anime.There are so many of my favorite scenes in this volume!
I love how Tohru keeps finding Kyo on rooftops, usually surrounded by cats.
haha!I love any scene with Tohru's friends, Hana and Uotani.
They are both such weird and wild people, and I adore their strange dialogue!Random Momiji kisses and hugs just make me happy.
I really want to see Momiji doing his New Year's dance!I did NOT like that Yuki was dressed up as a girl to increase sales at their fair.
That was weird and gross and creepy.
Don't even read this review. It took me so long to get volume two of Fruits Basket that I had no idea what was going on. I love the refresher at the beginning and that helped tremendously but, in reading, I couldn't keep the characters straight so I was a little confused. The first two thirds felt like fluff, the last third was intriguing. That is all.
havent read it yet i want to freakin read it thow on the internet for free!!!! why cant any one just see that? i came to this website to read books 4 free but i cant and it dosent even have a freakin help bar!!!!! what the heck?!?! this is a retarded webstie!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Just getting better and better! ^_^ And it's so fascinating to see the differences between the books and the TV show!
