https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/225754.Maud_Martha
A coming of age tale of Maud Martha Brown Phillips, Brooks short novel speaks of the African American experience in the 1940s.
Woodson's work appears to be a descendant of Maud Martha, a slim novel poetic in its voice.
Used to Brooks poetry that flows off the pages, she easily transferred this voice to novel form to describe Maud Martha's life.
As a result of Brooks' works, readers have insight into African American society during the 1940s and early 1950s.
A window into African American daily life during the 1940s, Maud Martha rates 4.5 beautiful stars.
I haven't read any of Gwendolyn Brooks poetry (yet), just this novel, the only one she wrote, but it reads like poetic prose. Beautifully written, flowing lyrical prose that make the pages fly by. It's a coming of age story, most assuredly inspired by Brooks life in Chicago's south side. 180 pages featuring short vignettes that paint a picture of what it was like growing up in the black neighborhoods of early 20th century Chicago. A 5 star read for me.
Annoyingly beautiful sister, to be exact: 'It’s funny how some people are just charming, just pretty, and others, born of the same parents, are just not.'Ethnic background: African American.Skin colour: 'The color of cocoa straight.' According to Maud Martha, much too dark.Dream: New York and to be cherished.Secret: A recipe for the best cocoa in the family.State Street, Chicago, 1917.
[Image source.]Let's face it, probably this fact file doesn't urge you to drop everything and run desperately to the nearest library to get a copy of 'Maud Martha' (1953) by Gwendolyn Brooks.
[Image source.]According to the author, 'Maud Martha was born in 1917.
The author takes a kind of revenge:“You'll never get a boy friend,” said Helen, fluffing on her Golden Peacock powder, “if you don't stop reading those books”If there's no love for reading girls (because we're dangerous), then the world is wrong, we know absolutely, cuddling our books for comfort.What she wanted was to donate to the world a good Maud Martha.
If chickens were ever to be safe, people would have to live with them, and know them, see them loving their children, finishing the evening meal, arranging jealousy.This passage relates back to Maud Martha's empathy with the mouse she caught much earlier in the book, and the elation and surprised pride she felt when she released the creature telling her to 'go home to your family'.
I really enjoyed Gwendolyn Brooks' poetry so I was interested to read her only novel. I really loved this book; it was a quick easy read, with short chapters that said so much. The book has vignettes of Maud Martha's life from childhood through adulthood. It touches on colourism in the African-American community, as well as love, motherhood and other topics.
Stunning things happen when a poet writes a novel.
They happen here in this raw and insightful examination of a woman's life in Chicago.
It doesn't matter so much when this story takes place because it is THAT timeless.
This is a fast read that I did not want to finish.
Here is an author that was crafting her writing in a fresh and new way back in the 1950's, and it reads fresh and new today.
What a pleasure to see things this way, to see how words can be strung together so that a couple of paragraphs is a full and satisfying chapter.
10 Stars!Gwendolyn Brooks manages, in about 150 pages, to create a beautiful portrait of a black woman's life, in Chicago, in the 1950s.
This novel is so graceful and light, yet deals with the ugliness of colorism among black people, racism, domestic woes, motherhood, and daughterhood.
Each chapter is a little window into a moment in Maud Martha's life; she is a character with a quiet strength, able to endlessly dream and enjoy all of the things that make life beautiful despite circumstances that spell tragedy for many of the people around her.
I haven't yet read anything else by Gwendolyn Brooks but I'm wild about this book.
This novella (?) Maud Martha describes growing up in the 50s.
This slim volume of nearly stand alone chapters presents the tip of an enormous implied iceberg.
The chapters, deceptively simple and light, almost breezy, are rich and intricate.
Maud Martha and her life come through clear and pure.
I am grateful and thrilled to be with Maud Martha for a day or two -- the time it takes to walk through the book with her -- and to keep her in mind for the rest of my life.
This is my favorite book. Maud Martha's character, the episodic writing style, the exquisite word choice...I read this one again and again.
This quiet story from Gwendolyn Brooks gives an excellent portrayal of a young black woman growing up on the south side of Chicago. Its discussion of the different treatment of light and dark skin blacks in the black community is really interesting and accurate. Maud Martha's story told in short vignettes allows her thoughts and concerns to come alive on the page. It was an enjoyable and quick read. I wonder why it has not received the attention it deserves from the African American literature cannon.
Passionate, Graceful, Beautiful & Inspiring! An Amazing Read! I Loved It!
8.5/10
I read this novel about four years ago in a volume which was a collection of Gwendolyn Brooks' poetry.
Maud Martha is one of the most beautiful novels I've ever read.
The language is poetic prose and positive with also a mix of the realistic.
But here Brooks' places the main character in occasional grating circumstances which would turn many bitter or warped, yet Maud Martha always keeps her head up and never stops seeing and seeking the sometimes hidden flower of the goodness in the life.
As far as the love of what is beautiful in life and what is good, I would say Maud Martha is me.
I learned about Maud Martha from Elaine Showalter's excellent overview of American women writers, A Jury of Her Peers.
Gwendolyn Brooks was primarily a poet and this was her only novel.The novel is short, composed of vignettes in Maud Martha's life from childhood through courting, marriage and motherhood.
The tone is lighthearted but Brooks spares no aspect of what life was really like for a young black woman in 1950s Chicago.The writing is indeed poetic; in fact consummately so.
She tells it to us, without censure or preaching, but man, do we get it: black, female, mother and wife.
Eloquent. Thoughtful. Honest.
Poetry is short, pithy sentences or phrases that say much in a short space.
This novel is poetry barely converted to prose, which is not surprising since Gwendolyn Brooks was a poet and this is her only novel.
Each short chapter is a snapshot in the life of Maud Martha beginning as a young child and progressing through her life as a young mother.
Even though the reader knows quite a bit about Maud Martha by the end, there are so many depths to plumb and so many images, both happy and sad, of this young woman.
Maud Martha is the only novel by the poet Gwendolyn Brooks, telling the story of the life of Maud Martha Brown, a Black girl, and the African-American experience in 1940s Chicago. It is very short - my edition has 180 pages - and is very reminiscent of Brooks' poetry skills as it is written in vignettes. While I was taken aback by the writing style at first, it quickly became very compelling. I found it amazing how much Brooks managed to express in so short a book with such a unique writing style
--If you're light and have long hair(There were passages about color and prejudice that reminded me of "Their Eyes Were Watching God")She watched the little dreams of smoke as they spiraled about his hand, and she thought about happenings.
If chickens were ever to be safe, people would have to live with them, and know them, see them loving their children, finish the evening meal, arranging jealousy.
Gwendolyn Brooks is best known for her poetry and since I am not interested in poetry, I had not heard of her before reading Maud Martha.
This book follows Maud Martha from a young girl to a young woman expecting her second child.
As a child, she sees beauty in dandelions.
As she ages, she marries a light black man and feels the strain of being a dark black woman both in her marriage and in society.
She can't afford luxuries in her small, dreary apartment, yet spring weather and the beauty of nature keeps her optimistic.The book is written in vignettes with a feel of prose that has been converted from poetry.
Gwendolyn Brooks has long been one of my favorite writers, in part because MAUD MARTHA was at one time my all time favorite book ever written.
It's a quiet book, but so astute, beautifully written, and deeply felt.
I have read this book over and over and I still come back to it.
I've recommended this book to other people, but no one has enjoyed it as much as me.
Some people haven't even finished it because they "couldn't see the point." I cringe each time I hear this criticism because this book touched me deeply.
I LOVE this book!
Maud Martha is a quiet triumph that follows out protagonist from girlhood into marriage.
Maud shares her world with a clarity that can only be called "learned" "lived" and "poetic." Maud has thoughts!
Maud's is not a life to be pitied but celebrated even when she shares her most private defeats.
This was a reread for me as I read Maud Martha over a decade ago, and it has stood the test of time with its commentary on race, color, gender, community and love.
I could not love and appreciate Gwendolyn Brooks anymore than I already do.
This book contains two of my most favorite sentences of all time. The first because it captures the beauty that Brooks gives to everyday things: "But dandelions were what she chiefly saw. Yellow jewels for everyday, studding the patched green dress of her back yard."And the second because it spoke directly to my soul: "Inevitably, though, the fat girl, who was forced to be nonchalant, who pretended she little cared whether she was late or not, who would not run! (Because she would wobble, would lose her dignity)."Still breaks my heart.
This was a pretty simple book, but it definitely made some large and complex points about race and feeling outcast, or even just ordinary.
Through her portrayal of scenes from the every day life of the titular character, Brooks muses on life, the relationship between blacks and whites, and how it can feel to just not be considered good enough, even by your own family.
There are some scenes which are sweet, some which are sad.
Each is laid out in the lovely language of poet Gwendolyn Brooks.
I don't do a lot of poetry, but based on what I've read in her novel, I think I would enjoy hers.
Beautifully executed. By far one of the most interesting works of fiction I've read.
It is amazing to have two authors, Dybek and Brooks, remind me in just the past couple of weeks what a very visceral, physical pleasure reading can be.WHAT she liked was candy buttons, and books, and painted music (deep blue, or delicate silver) and the west sky, so altering, viewed from the steps of the back porch; and dandelions.
If chickens were ever to be safe, people would have to live with them, and know them, see them loving their children, finishing the evening meal, arranging jealousy.When the animal was ready for the oven Maud Martha smacked her lips at the though of her meal.
Read for class while also reading Wright, Ellison and Baldwin; was nice to hear a black female perspective amongst all of those male writers! Overall this was an enjoyable, quick and interesting read - would definitely recommend.
It's a sweet story about Maud Martha, a young woman's quest and love for life. She encounters many of life's difficulties at a time when she is facing womanhood, not always knowing what she might encounter. The story captures the essence of Black life, whether she confronts teenaged love and marriage or the challenges of womanhood and adult survival.
You could read this book in a day, and you should.
Brooks published about 75 poems by the time she was 16, and it’s no surprise that she mastered voice, character, vernacular, and blues rhythms by the time she wrote Maud Martha.Maud Martha is novel in that it’s a set of 34 vignettes portraying the life of Maud Martha, as she grows up and becomes a woman, in 1940s Chicago.
Published in 1953, Maud Martha is the story of a girl, growing up in Chicago in the 1940s.
The story is so captivating, told with minimal drama and maximal beauty.
I feel as though I know Maud Martha.
She was the intelligent, generous girl who always reached out to others.
One example is the story of the overweight girl at school who refuses to run in order to preserve her poise; as well as when Maud caught a mouse and then sets it free in an exuberant act of generosity.
I truly enjoyed reading Maud Martha.
