https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12117791-the-ignatius-bible
Dear husband and I took our pastor's challenge to ‘read the Bible and the Catechism in a year’.
We began on the 4th of February last year and we followed this guide a handy little fold-out which you mark off as you go.
We would read a couple chapters from the Old Testament, something from the Wisdom literature, followed by the New Testament and several paragraphs from the Catechism each night.
In the beginning we doubled up in hopes of doing it in a 1/2 year.
Yay!We think we are gonna do a Bible study next.
Unlike some other Catholic Bibles I've read, this one doesn't have Prayer Of Manasseh.
Some notes throughout, standard middle-of-the-road Catholic opinions.Like with other Bible read-throughs, each time brings some new realizations (like the fact Adam & Eve didn't get the chance to taste the fruit (if there was any) of the Tree Of Life - which would've given them immortality).
And I increasingly feel critical towards Paul about some of his opinions (maybe later very early addings but still), and think there might've been some remaining Phariseeisms in there.
After studying all 73 books in 4 years of Biblical School, two primary conclusions:1.
There is no possible way dozens of human authors could weave together this love story in such intricate fashion, over the course of 1,500 years, without inspiration from God. The connections, with Jesus Christ as the climax, are endless.2.
This is a profoundly Catholic book.
To separate it from the Church founded by Jesus Christ Himself is to cut off its life.
And to accept this book but not the Church that produced it is also, quite ironically, to contradict the book itself.
May Christendom reunite.
Yes, I actually read the whole thing!
So when my original year was derailed, I put it aside until the timing was right, and then I just continued from where I left off.In the meantime, I participated in several fantastic Bible studies, so Scripture as a whole became much more accessible.
Now, I can finally say that I have actually turned and read every page of this Bible.
It was an amazing experience, and I am blessed to have had it.I think this is the best Catholic translation of the Bible available.
The cover illustrations and typeface are beautiful aids to study.
This was the edition of the Bible used by my theology professor in college. It seems to strike a good balance between being pretty accurate translation and still reasonably well-written, and it has good footnotes, especially for things like cross-references between books of the Bible and possible alternate connotations of words.
Why yes, yes I did read the ENTIRE Bible this year.
This is a travel size Bible, as you can see from the photos there is a zipper along the sides to protect the pages from getting bent, or torn.
I also like that the publisher added a Miraculous Medal for a zipper pull (Very Cute Idea)Whats in side?The text size isn't too small, please note that this is in comparison to other small travel Bibles.
Appendix 2 list the changes in the RSV the New testament for the Catholic Edition 3.
In 1965, the RSV-CE New Testament was published and in 1966, the full RSV-CE Bible.
For a full list of these changes check Appendix 1 in the back of the Bible.
Read through the Bible for the very first time, did a thoroughly scholarly approach insofar as I took notes on all the aspects that interested me beyond a strictly religious matter (results not to be regurgitated here).
Along the way I discovered some truly good reading hidden within this massive collection that most people probably would never even consider discovering (including the fact that considerable stretches read like a Jewish Game of Thrones) even if they actually read it, given their approach is to take all of it not for a reading experience but something that must be taken deadly solemnly, so that most of what it contains completely escapes them.
This is a book you cannot put down. The Bible is the world's most read book by far. The Revised Standard Version is one of the easier and better English translations. The Bible was written as separate works by numerous authors over a period of more than 1,500 years, but it miraculously acts as a single story. There simply is no greater literary work in human history. http://www.returnoftheway.com/
Read the Book of Genesis for a literature module
But, man of faith that I am, I am with all things myth and Bible a strict non-literalist.
Perhaps I expect too much from pious individuals who, probably unconsciously, hold onto that much of a literalist view of the text.The scholars also do not go far enough in explaining/dismissing so many parts that constitute arbitrary rules born of an earlier less enlightened time.
Again, perhaps I expect too much.I will likely read the Bible again, but I will stick with those parts that are mythical: the Genesis, the Exodus, and the Gospels.

It took me longer than a year to finish the bible. There were some books that I didn't understand, some that were difficult to finish, and some that I kept going back to over and over again. I learned that I loved Psalms and Sirach and that I should probably take a class to understand St. Paul's writings. My appreciation for the Old Testament is so great after this read. Was it St. Jerome who said "Ignorance of Scripture is Ignorance of God"?
In my opinion the original RSV is the best English translation of the bible available. This version has all the deuterocanonical books accepted by Catholics (but not all those accepted by the Orthodox Church.) Isaiah 7:14 is accurately translated according to the Septuagint: "Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel."
Generally regarded by scholars around the world to be one of the most accurate translatios of the Bible into English. Some editions (such as the NRSV) even include those books found in the Orthodox and Eastern Scripture Canons, making it ideal for students of theology and history. The language is highly static and therefore more difficult to read smoothly. The best choice for Seminary classes and more advanced Biblical scholarship.
Read the Revised Standard Version of the Bible (yes, the whole thing) when I was about thirteen. Had read parts of the New Testament previously and, like many of my generation, grew up hearing Bible stories everywhere. Remember being impressed by the huge flow of history found in the first half of the Old Testament. Didn't realize that Genesis to Esther was one continuous narrative.A very good read.
What can more can be said that hasn't already been said? It's the Bible! The greatest and the best-selling book of all-time? My spiritual guide book for all paths in life! Unlike the Protestant Bible, this one has some extra books! The Book of Tobit is totally awesome! It's too bad the protestants are missing out! But then again, we Catholics have a lot of stuff they don't have: the blessed Virgin Mary, the Saints, etc. etc. You almost feel sorry for them. Almost.
Started: 1/17/11 - Godspeed to me!Thoughts thus far: for being "flesh of my flesh" women are treated less like people and a step below cattle, virginity can be taken or left and being barren is ALWAYS the women's fault... aka it's always the soil, never the seed. I can see why God sent Jesus. And why Jesus' best friend was a woman. Onward!
This is the Holy Book, a must read for every breathing human. The incredible thing about it is that you can read the same paragraph over and over and you will gain a different or deeper insight every time. Beware this book could turn you around 180*
This is a decent translation that I would recommend to anyone to read for studying and personal devotion.
I just finished reading through the NT again so now I'm starting at the beginning, the very beginning; Genesis and am going to read through the OT again.
A good book with a good author, who is most definitely not anonymous. ;-)Apparently it's also a very good translation.
blood, sex, lust, avarice, prostitution, greed, masturbation, talking donkeys, walking on water, death, destruction, dismay, dismemberment, hatred, love, resurrection of the dead, life everlasting
I like this interpretation more than the New American Bible. It is a little more elegant in its wording as the NAB is simple and basic.
Well, what can I say? It's the Bible and this is absolutely the best version out there for Catholics by far! Read this one! Not the NAB! Endorsed by Mother Angelica, too!
The book of life.The Bible consists of two testaments , the old and the new. I found this version easy to read and understand.
This is supposed to be a Catholic version of the Bible, but I found several problems with this, such as mistranslating what the Bible actually says. The booklet  Which Bible Should You Read?  goes into more detail about the various (serious) problems this translation has. For example, it mistranslates Genesis 3:15 as "he shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel", when the pronoun should be "she/her". It also leaves out thirteen verses of Ecclesiasticus (Sirach) chapter 24. The explan
This is supposed to be a Catholic version of the Bible, but I found several problems with this, such as mistranslating what the Bible actually says.
For example, it mistranslates Genesis 3:15 as "he shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel", when the pronoun should be "she/her".
The explanatory notes for the first two chapters of Genesis make it sound like this passage is compatible with Darwinian evolution.
The notes for chapter 6 all but call Noah's flood a myth ("The writer may be using an old story or myth .
On the one hand, this version has major problems.
First of all, the original translation was made by heretics, who most likely don't agree with the Catholic Church on any issue.
Second, while trying to create a common translation is (I suppose) a worthy endeavor, the Church already has a common Bible, the Vulgate.However, to give this edition its due, there are several features which I do like over the Douay-Rheims Bible.
For example, it puts Esther 10:4 to 16:24 back in their original places in the Septuagint text.
Also, it uses Arabic numbers rather than Roman numerals for chapter numbers.
I used this copy to read the entire Old Testament in a little less than a year.....I don't recommend doing that, and I wouldn't do it again.This particular edition is not too useful...there are not many explanatory notes, and no subheadings throughout the book which makes it difficult to find a favorite passage unless one has memorized the verses.The good thing about this edition is that it's portable, and from what I'm told, the RSV is a translation that most scripture scholars prefer to cite from, if citing an English translation.
A narratively redundant, intellectually insulting, and suffocatingly narrow-minded work of fiction, I just don't buy it. It's not even well written as the authors chronically resort to weak analogy and condescending monologue. For an omnipresent, all powerful creator, this "God" character (and subsequently his (holy) ghost writers the apostles) has little talent to speak of save his exhausting prolificacy and penchant for preachiness. Honestly, a box of Corn Flakes has more meaningful dialogue and less shit to swallow than this lackluster paperwight called the Bible.
