https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96463.The_Chronicles_of_Pern
It was when I read this collection of stories right on the heels of re-reading Dragonsdawn that I started to understand how much Anne McCaffrey loves logistics.Seriously.
I re-read a whole lot of McCaffrey's books recently when my mom gave me a bunch of books she didn't want anymore, and this was the one aspect of them that I fell in love with on the re-read.
But now I live in the country in a place where we do a lot of stuff for ourselves (no stone-cutters, but, y'know, chainsaws and stuff) and I am finally understanding physical logistics.
I am not entirely sure how I got on this streak of nostalgic re-reads, but of course I had to re-read this after Dragonsdawn.As a kid, I loooooooved Torene/Mihall's story.
I used to check this out from the library and re-read it all the time.
Loved the Sean/Sorka glimpses!)I don't think I liked the second and third story much, judging by my lack of memory of them!
(They were fine on re-read, but still not remarkable to me.) The first and last are really interesting bookends.
I liked the glimpses of the rest of the universe.And this is just interesting in general.
I really enjoy the Dragonriders of Pern books. Some of the later books get into some homosexual references, which I don't enjoy reading about. It is a side element and not a main plot line. But because of this I would caution the young reader from getting into this series, until they can clearly think through this issue.
Unlike many other creators of alternate worlds, Anne McCaffery continues to mine fresh ore from the soil of her imagined reality. Her storytelling is good, too.
Set hundreds of years before the first novel, these five stories explain how the colonists came to abandon the Southern continent where they first settled, how the holds and wyers were established and named and how come no one from Earth never came to check on the Pern settlement.
The characters never really take off, the romance is cumbersome and has no conclusion but it is not the worst story I ever read.The Ford of Red Hanrahan, set some years after the last one, is not a bad yarn in it's own right.
Five short stories in the Pern science fiction / fantasy series and revolving around dragons and their riders fighting for the survival of their colony.Chronology"The Survey: P.E.R.N." (0.5)"The Dolphins' Bell" (1.1)"The Ford of Red Hanrahan (1.2)"The Second Weyr" (1.3)"Rescue Run" (1.4)The Stories"The Survey: P.E.R.N." is useful for explaining where the name for the planet came from and was very clever of McCaffrey.
An event that's discussed in here triggers the start of the fostering system and the basis for the Harper Hall.There are 500 dragonriders now with Sorka and Sean as the weyrleaders at Fort."The Second Weyr" occurs 28 years after their landing and sees the establishment of Benden Weyr and how dragonriders are sorted out.
The new fort ends up named Fort Ruatha.The Second Weyr: As with the previous story, the population has grown, and the weyr is overcrowded.
There is one steamy sex scene in this, which as is typical of the Pern stories, is kind of strange and rapey.Rescue Run: A spaceship exploring in the area gets a distress signal from Pern.
It's kind of funny at this point that the bad guy is so easily disposed of in every Pern story, but then it's a hallmark of the series now.The Second Weyr bored me.
Then the story moves into the landing party and how they begin to move onto their new planet.
You learn more about the dragonets and how they are used to create the Dragons that will protect them all from Thread.
Again, I would not recommend reading in the chronological order that I am reading these books in if you have never read the Pern series.
However, as a new reader of Pern, reading in the suggested order is highly recommended.This is such a fantastic world.
I would highly recommend this series to any dragon and fantasy lover.
Not that I didn't enjoy them, because I did, absolutely -- just they weren't the characters I loved the most.Update 9/14/2017: Reread start to finish for the first time in years, immediately following Dragonsdawn, and while the first story (about the survey of the planet) felt pretty forgettable and bland, I have to admit that I enjoyed all the rest of the stories in addition to my two favorites mentioned above.
Though, (view spoiler)[I do hate that we don't KNOW FOR SURE what happened to Kimmer and that it's left as speculation.
(hide spoiler)] I forgot that there was a Benden relative in that Rescue Run story.
This includes the following short stories: The Survey: P.E.R.N.
(superscript c, don't know how to type it...)The Dolphin's BellThe Ford of Red HanrahanThe Second WeyrRescue RunWhile this wasn't my favorite Pern book since I think McCaffrey needs a book length space to develop her characters, I did enjoy it.
My favorites were the ones that included Sean and Sorka, who were already well developed characters, so they were The Ford of Red Hanrahan and The Second Weyr.
The Dolphin's Bell was a bit tedious, except when the dolphins leaped into the story.
En fait cette nouvelle est vraiment au centre de plein de sujets importants pour le futur de Pern, notamment le système des placement d'enfants.L'histoire suis Red Hanrahan qui pars pour créer son propre fort, malgré tout les soucis sur la route.Et quand la chute arrive et qu'on comprends ce que c'était, c'est génial.Le Deuxième Weyr : Encore une nouvelle vraiment excellente, qui raconte cette fois ci pourquoi et comment est créer le second Weyr, parce que celui de Fort est bien trop plein et que ça provoque pas mal de problèmes notamment à cause de la surpopulation de reines.C'est mon histoire préférée des cinq, je me suis vraiment bien attaché aux personnages et j'ai adoré la fin.
A collection of short stories/novellas that expand on the early history of Pern. Some of the history is fun and a great display of McCaffrey's verdant imagination but a couple of the stories are overly long and not particularly interesting. This was a reread. I hadn't read it since first buying it years ago. It's not a bad book by any means but it will not retain a place in my permanent library.
She dreams of becoming new weyrwoman at one of the weyrs and waits in eager anticipation to see who will fly her queen in her first mating flight, for they will become the new leaders of the newly named Benden Weyr.Rescue Run - When Lieutenant Ross Benden's ship comes upon a distress signal around the Rukbat system, he cannot help but think of his uncle, who set off 50 years previously to colonize a planet there.
(2 stars) This is the story of the survey team that first evaluated the planet  now known as Pern for human colonization.
THE DOLPHIN'S BELL (1 star) This was over 40 pages of an incredibly slow moving and boring story.
THE FORD OF RED HANRAHAN (5 stars) This was a longer short story telling of a group of settlers headed by Red Hanrahan leaving Fort Hold to establish a Hold of their own.
This story tells how that came to be, how weyrleaders and weyrwomen are chosen, as well as the second weyr being established.5.
These five short stories that fill in the gaps of the early Pern years.
The first story is the original survey team who came to Pern and declared it a planet worthy of settlement.
Another story deals with the evacuation of Landing after the volcanic eruptions.
Then there are stories about how the new settlements and weyrs are chosen in the North.
The final story is about the rescue of a few settlers that didn't make it to the North but had been stuck in the south without dragon help during threadfall.
Such a good book and such an amazing series!
I loved reading the little episodes from all over Pern.
I was a little confused by the timing of the last one as it didn't really explain where it fell on the timeline, but it was still really interesting altogether!
I'm so excited to learn more about the dolphins as this was the first I had read about them!
I can't believe how much thought and effort McCaffrey put into this series.
What an incredible writer and person.
I'm so happy there are so many of these books.
They're always a pleasure to find.
So after the elegant wrap up to the series this book came out. Not a single story, but a series of short stories. All of the stories in this book take place prior to the original start of the series and involve things like why Dragon Riders have their names contracted, How Ruatha Hold got its name, as well as an actual rescue attempt by the civilized part of the galaxy. A nice read, fun and worth taking a look at.
2015 audiobook re-readI'd probably go with a 3.5 with this one. The entire anthology of novellas had lovely stories about the first settlers of Pern, but it was a bit jarring listening to some of the characters without the accents that they had in the previous book that was narrated by a male, this book being narrated by a woman.Still, Pern is a nice world to escape to.
Познавательно для изучения культуры Перна, но сомневаюсь, чтобы было интересно читать именно с этой книги. Хотя хронологически ее можно считать первой, чтобы разбираться в дальнейшей ситуации, происходящей много столетий позже.
Re-read September 2018Review to come :)
Bunch of fun stories about a wonderful world. It ties a lot of the full novels together and answers some of the unanswered questions. Great book for Pern fans.
Man, I love Pernese history. Especially from back in the day when Anne was still good at it.Update, 4/11/17: Two great stories, two mediocre ones. Also, Anne McCaffrey was *terrible* at continuity. But I love her anyway.
Tant qu'à faire, selon moi, c'est plutôt l'histoire de Nerilka qui aurait pu être mis de côté.Il s'agit en réalité d'un recueil de nouvelles qui se passent sur Pern :  Première reconnaissance : P.E.R.N. La Cloche des Dauphins Le Fort de Red Hanrahan Le Deuxième Weyr Mission sauvetageJ'ai eu un peu de peine avec l'aspect très décousu des nouvelles, (surtout que je ne savais pas qu'il s'agissait de nouvelles quand je me suis lancée dedans, le tout présenté plus ou moins comme des chapitres si l'on n'est pas au courant...) La plupart de ces nouvelles sont intéressantes, mais, selon moi, pas dans l'ordre présenté.
I loved the Sorka/Sean moments in Second Weyr they were sweet and just made me enjoy them more.Survey, I wouldn't have minded seeing Shava find the Ruby that Avril makes such a production over, and also some of the notes Avril kept referring back to.
It was interesting to read about the crossing and to see just how much has changed since those early days when Red and Mairi weren't sure about Sean's friendship with their daughter, and I also loved the reference to Sean's beloved Cricket being an ancestor for Red's King.Rescue Run was both fascinating and a little bit sad.
We knew they expanded, it's human nature, we breed and take places over and have to move on.The rescue of the survivors (okay) This was okay for a story, interesting, but not really needed.I would have preferred to find out about how the colonists faced the first fall of thread, that's the entire point of most of the series, their reaction to the first fall would have been great in a book titled the first fall.I would have loved to have read about the first time they grew a dragon and that first impression.
I’ve read and enjoyed other works by the Anne McCaffrey such as The Ship Who Sang and the Crystal Singer books so I thought I would enjoy The Chronicles of Pern: First Fall.Unfortunately, this group of short stories was not my cup of tea.
I enjoyed the first story having read some of her Dragonriders of Pern novels decades ago so I was familiar with the premise.
Possibly they were written for someone who had read all of the other books beforehand which I have not.
I believe this book will appeal to lovers of Pern and McCaffrey completists.

Overall, I liked the stories that focused on space rather than the dragonriders. The collection gives backstory and some additional information on the first and second generations on Pern. It is a real interesting book and you would really enjoy it if you like mystical and mysterious things. You wouldn't waste your money because as you get deeper in the book it will start to drag you along and you'll be so shocked on what happens next and this book would not let you down.
Read these books as a pre-teen (early teen?) and LOVED them. Just picked up this one again and read it in a day. This isn't the best of McCaffrey's books and certainly would not be the right one to start with as it is a series of short stories that fill in gaps that you frankly might not really care that much about unless you know more details of the larger story. It's great when something you loved in childhood holds up to your memories!
Love this series of books. It's one of my all time favourites. I decided to re-read the entire Dragonriders of Pern series and over the past couple of months, I have been working my way through them all. Anne McCaffrey has such a wonderful, boundless imagination and such a vivid and descriptive style, her stories transport the reader into the fantastic world that she created and sweeps you up on the breathtaking adventures. Spellbinding!
