https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3116205-the-prodigal-god
If I had more time I would try to draw out the distinctions between authentic Christianity and its impostors, but let me share a single quote to give you the flavor of this book:The gospel of Jesus is not religion or irreleigion, morality or immorality, moralism or relativism, conservatism or liberalism.
Nor is it something halfway along a spectrum between two poles - it is something else altogether.The gist of the book is that the elder son in the parable, the one who faithfully followed the father's directions was just as selfish, sinful and self-centered as the spendthrift younger son who demanded his inheritance early and squandered it in licentious living.
There is not only one lost son in this parable, but two.
Choosing a less offensive title, however, wouldn't have made this a better book.Keller dissects the parable of the prodigal son.
In fact, I found that a lot of what he said wasn't backed up convincingly with Scripture....He does talk about obedience but fails to mention that we are told in John 14 vs 15 "If you love Me, you will obey My commands." There is nothing in this verse or elsewhere about manipulating emotions or affections.Someone else commented in their review that Keller is trying to get us to worship God for Who He is.
Both cultures proclaim, "If those people would follow our example, the world would be a better place." Our problem is that, no matter what side of the cultural divide we land on, we still play the role of the two lost sons, alienating ourselves from the Father by a self-centered focus on either keeping all the rules or breaking them all.Within every person's heart is a hunger for home.
God used this book to penetrate my soul deeply resulting in personal confession and worship.Quotes:If, like the elder brother, you believe that God ought to bless you and help you because you have worked so hard to obey him and be a good person, then Jesus may be your helper, your example, even your inspiration, but he is not your Savior.
You are serving as your own Savior.It’s not the repentance that causes the father’s love, but rather the reverse.Repentance is not less than that, but it is much more, because the list approach isn’t sufficient to address the condition of the elder brother.To truly become Christians we must also repent of the reasons we ever did anything right.The key difference between a Pharisee and a believer in Jesus is inner-heart motivation.
Pharisees are being good but out of a fear-fueled need to control God."*"If, like the elder brother, you believe that God ought to bless you and help you because you have worked so hard to obey him and be a good person, then Jesus may be your helper, your example, even your inspiration, but he is not your Savior.
2011: I finally read my first Tim Keller book!
Excellent, very engaging.
His main point -- there are two brothers in the parable, not just one.
And thus, moralism is just as bad as the behaivour we normally call sin.
Which means that both the 'sinful' person and the 'moral' person are both far from the Father, because neither is relying on his grace to meet their true need.
I also loved the chapter on hope, where he presents the biblical theme of exile and homecoming.
This chapter was where I most agreed with the comparisons I've heard between Tim Keller and CS Lewis.
Nearly every Christian knows, in an obvious way, that he most repent of his rebellious sin and loose living.
But, repenting of good works?
After breaking the parable into two acts, Keller examines the root heart issues in each brother's story and how each desperately needs God's grace, grace which God dispenses prodigally on his children.This book is for church people, and I know many church people who need it.
From the super-rigid Reformed folks to the light-hearted Charismatics, all believers have much to gain from reading Keller's work.
Most of us just think it's about forgiving Rowdy Roddy (#2 Son), but Keller spends 150 pp.
Wrong." Nicely, I mean.For him, the parable is about equally bad bros -- both the prodigal who burns through Dad's money and then comes back as a penitent AND the elder, who resents the fact that his father welcomes Rowdy home.
Guess who comes out smelling like a Biblical rose?
They're equally sinful, in their way, and Keller equates religious zealots who judge others as being guilty of the elder son's sin.
Elder son sorts.
(Keller's work is not as dense or full of useful illustrations as Lewis'.) In this book, he discusses the parable usually referred to as the prodigal son, but focuses on the "prodigal" (reckless) love of the father in the story, which of course is really about God's reckless, pursuing love of us.
He talks a lot about the older brother and how we might be more like the older brother than the younger, but how God pursues him, too, in all his curmudgeonly religiosity.April 2018: What stood out to me the most in this reading of the book was Keller's discussion of spiritual homesickness--we are all longing for our heavenly home and will experience glimpses of it here.
A great introduction to Jesus and Christianity for moderns and postmoderns.
Keller takes us deep into the heart of one of finest stories ever told by Jesus.
The self-righteous will squirm as Keller points out that there are two prodigals, not one, in the story.
But both kinds of people—religious and rebels—will feel the attractive pull of Christ when they discover what kind of elder brother He is.Following Clowney, Keller has seen deeply into this parable.
His skill and scope in applying its truth to modern people is breathtaking.
His ability to relate Christ to so many things people today care about makes this book the best candidate to give to searching friends.
The message of the Bible is that the human race is a band of exiles trying to come home." (Keller, The Prodigal God, page 108-109)Part of what makes Keller so approachable --and so celebrated--is his use of cultural references, particularly those from literature and film, to expound Biblical truths without overshadowing them.
He is and has been recklessly extravagant (who would give their only Son to die for wicked sinners?) and spent all that He had.He then names the parable differently then you might expect.
He entitles it, "The Parable of the Two Lost Sons" and shows that both of these sons show two different types of people and the way they attempt to gain favor with God. They are both wrong but he shows with extraordinary tenderness and skill that the "elder brother" type is so much more dangerous due to it being so much more difficult to detect.I must admit, God convicted me throughout the book.
But I do wonder if seeking God for God's sake actually sets some people on the difficult path of trying really hard to do things just for God. This would probably loom less large for me as a criticism if it weren't for Keller's disappointing statements on pp.
In fact, many elder brothers, for all their religiosity, do not have much of a private prayer life at all unless things are not going well in their lives.
The book of Genesis tells us that when God made the world he looked upon the physical creation and called it "good." He loves and care for the material world.

This tiny book conveys deep truths in a way that would be easy for just about anyone to follow. It serves as a great reminder of the costly grace Jesus has offered us, and what that grace means as we pursue salvation.
The "Elder Brother" would be the one who refuses to forgive both the father & brother for what he thinks he should be the one getting rewarded.Our society is divided into two cultures, as Keller points out.
It is because of us who portrays so much like the "Elder Brother" that drives people away from God. Good read!Ratings: 5 out of 5 starsMy Blogspot Review
The Prodigal God: Recovering the Heart of the Christian Faith by Tim Keller is one of those “big things.”Keller tackles the Parable of the Prodigal Son. His approach confronts the typical interpretation that fixates on the sin of the younger brother in Christ’s parable – the prodigal son.
The younger son tries to find happiness and fulfillment through self-discovery.
At the end of the day, readers are challenged to repent of the sins of self-discovery and/or moral conformity.The Prodigal God is a reaffirmation of the biblical gospel set forth in categories that are understandable to believers and unbelievers alike.
I would compare this book to the equal of 'Mere Christianity' by C.S. Lewis.
This book is amazing and deals with the establishment of Christianity on the basis of its own merit.
I found my understanding and faith renewed as I went through it."The word prodigal does not mean “wayward”, but according to Merriam Webster’s collegiate dictionary: “recklessly spend thrift”.
The father patiently endures a tremendous loss of honor as well as the pain of rejected love.
But this father maintains his affection for his son and bears the agony.” - Tim Keller, The Prodigal God
Within our book group this threw up lots of topic for conversation.
We spoke about serving the Lord.
We spoke about religiosity.
What should a proper elder brother have done?
Wouldn’t he have searched long and hard to find his brother and try and bring him back to the family?
Within the group we all explored how we sometimes think, how we act and speak.
It really wakened us to our own elder brother characteristics.This was a really challenging and though provoking read, and I would recommend it for anyone, no matter where they are on their journey!
RESEÑA COMPLETA “La parábola del hijo pródigo” no es la historia que creías saber.
If you don't understand the gospel, this book is for you! I was humbled and repented for my elder-brotherliness! Humility and love echoes in this book. This is the gospel.
Espetacular!!! Penso que todos deveriam ler esse livro!!!
Amazing!! I read this book as part of a neighborhood book/bible study. When I first read the title The Prodigal God, I was confused... how can God be a prodigal; however after discovering the definition of Prodigal (spending freely and extravagantly)I was intrigued. This study was indeed about the parable of the prodigal son(s). It was portrayed in a way I hadn’t considered and made me evaluated myself and my heart towards others , especially others in the church, and God. Thought provoking and for me life changing.
A short, accessible book about the parable of the prodigal son. Keller has some really good insights, especially about the elder brother in the parable.
Unlike Nouwen's open theism (God is "powerless" to do certain things), however, Keller staunchly upholds the Sovereignty of God - and the depravity of man.God's Love for the Elder BrotherKeller brings us through the usual historical observations (what the Younger Son's request would have signified in the ancient Near East; the significance of the Father's response;)and reminds the reader that legalistic rule-keeping, condescension and forgetfulness of God's mercy is essentially an attempt at self-salvation.
You simply aren't sure God loves and delights in you." (page 63; emphasis mine.)The Feast of the Father is EternalThis is not a message just for new believers; but for hardened or cynical long-time Christians on their way to becoming "elder-brotherish", as Keller so tactfully puts it.
This book was very enjoyable!
In this book, Timothy Keller tells the parable of the lost son from the Bible.
He uses this story to explain Christianity to a full understanding.
It is The story, that when looked at closely, we can easily relate.
This is because The parable of the prodigal son is about every one of us.TK does a great job explains how both sons are actually lost.
Both are self righteous and are separated from God. They both want the fathers goods rather than the father himself.
By using this parable, TK explains to the reader true Christianity.Biblically accurate and true.
I most definitely recommend this book!
Keller uses this well worn parable to illustrate the salient truths of the Christian faith.
It is only the free grace of the father that can save both the younger son and the older one.This book was good for me.
You see, when we think that if we are just good enough, we won't depend upon grace and will then refuse to go into the feast.Noteworthy quotes: If the preaching of our ministers and the practice of our parishoners do not have the same effect on people that Jesus had, then we must not be declaring the same message that Jesus did (18-19) The father is saying, "I'm not going to wait until you've paid off your debt; I'm not going to wait until you've duly groveled.
بل تموت فحسب فليست التوبة هي التي تسبب حب الأب بل العكس هو الصحيح اذ ان حب الأب السخي يجعل تعبير الابن عن الندامة اسهل بكثير لن نجد الله ابداً إلا اذا طلبنا هو اولاً ولكن ينبغي لنا ان نتذكر انه يمكن ان يفعل ذلك بطرق مختلفة جداً فأحياناً ينقض علينا الله بصوره دراماتيكية كما فعل مع الابن الاصغر فنحس محبته احساساً حاداً واحياناً يجادلنا بهدوء وصبر علي الرغم من استمرارنا في الابتعاد عنه كما في حالة الابن الاكبر اذا بدأت تحس بضلالك ووجدت نفسك راغباً في النجاة منها ينبغي لك ان تدرك ان تلك الرغبة لا يعقل ان تكون قد تولدت لديك من تلقاء ذاتك فإن عملية كهذه تتطلب معونة واذا كانت جارية فيك فذلك مؤشر جيد علي ان المعين هو الي جانبك الآن الآن فلكي نصير مسيحين بالحقيقة يجب ايضاً ان نتوب عن الاسباب التي من اجلها فعلنا يوماً اي امر صالح
It is natural for younger brothers to think that elder brotherness and Christianity are exactly the same thing.
In this parable Jesus says to us, "Would you please be open to the possibility that the gospel, real Christianity, is something very different from religion?" That gives many people hope that there is a way to know God that doesn't lead to the pathologies of moralism and religiosity."If you are interested in this and and want to more, you should definitely check this book out.
