https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/318431.Long_Walk_to_Freedom
Mandela has always been a hero in my family and I grew up hearing about his life and his struggles to gain freedom for black South Africans.
This autobiography is very comprehensive in scope, covering Mandela’s childhood, his adulthood, his transformation into a freedom fighter, and his time spent in jail, and finally his inauguration as South Africa’s first black president.The history of his African National Congress party was intriguing,and even more gripping were the stories of Mandela's days as the "Black Pimpernel" travelling all around Africa and Europe.
In South Africa, to be poor and black was normal, to be poor and white was a tragedy.A few years and several hundred pages later, he has the corollary experience while taking a clandestine flight in Ethiopia.As I was boarding the plane I saw that the pilot was black.
But a moment later I caught myself: I had fallen into the apartheid mind-set, thinking Africans were inferior and that flying was a white man's job.If the leaders of the resistance movement can react like this – How could a black man fly a plane?
With the exclusion of the black African (please allow me at this time to offer apologies for anyone who takes offence to the word 'black', for I am simply using the term Mandela presented throughout, which differentiates between the white minority and the unrepresented majority) population, Mandela began to meet with other like-minded men and sought to join the political movement of the African National Congress (ANC), whose long-standing support of black equality fit nicely with the views he espoused.
Mandela used this passion to fuel his mantra as he sought to push back against the views of the South African Government.
A long way to freedom, courageously traveled by many men and women, to free themselves from the White oppressor, to regain human dignity, the pride of being Black.
People must learn to hate, and if they can learn to hate, they can also be taught to love, for love is born more naturally in the heart of man than its opposite.I am not really free if I deprive someone else of his freedom.
It's just about to get really good.This autobiography chronicles Mandela's life, first as the son of a tribal chief, then as an educated Black man under Apartheid--a dangerous thing to be--and then the journey, both outward and inward, from attorney to the leader of a revolution.
And he breaks up the horror with an occasional vignette of a surprisingly kindly jailor or other authority figure who does small, decent things when no one is looking.If you are interested in the history of South Africa and the defeat of Apartheid, this is a must-read.
If you ever, as I did, had a "Free Nelson Mandela" poster in your living room...read this, and celebrate.
He writes with detail and some pride in his work, but is also candid about his mistakes, his youthful misadventures, and his strained family life.The book starts with Mandela's youth, upbringing, and education.
For example, he talks about his embarrassment at using cutlery and wearing boots.The bulk of the middle section of the book is about his efforts for justice against the racist systems of South Africa.
Here, he continues the struggle by working with the other political prisoners, educating the guards, and trying to keep himself sane in the years between visits from his wife.
South Africa continues its long walk to freedom.
"لقد جرّدت نفسي طول حياتي للنضال من أجل الشعب الأفريقي، لقد كافحت ضد هيمنة البيض كما كافحت ضد هيمنة السود. لقد عشت تواقًا إلى مجتمع ديمقراطي حرّ، يعيش فيه الجميع في وئام ومساواة. إنّه هدف أرجو أن أعيش له وأن أحققه. وهو الهدف الذي سأموت من أجله إن لم يكن من ذلك بدّ."  يأتون من بعيد ليحتلّوا أرض غيرهم ويسرقوا ثرواتها، ويجرّمون شعبها ويستعبدونه، ويعاملونه بقسوة ووحشية وعنصرية. ومن يقوم من تلك الشعوب بالمطالبة بأدنى حقوقهم، يزجّونهم في السجون! لكن لا بُدّ للقيد أن ينكسر ولا بُد لليل الظلام والظلم و
وها هو نيسلون مانديلا ورفاقه يضربون أعظم الأمثلة في الوقوف في وجه التمييز العنصري ومحاربة كل أشكال الظلم والاستبداد.
وسيسجّل التاريخ أسماء كل الأحرار الذين وقفوا في وجه المستعمرين الغاصبين العنصريين بأحرف من ذهب، وسيذهب أولئك الغاصبين إلى مزبلة التاريخ.
"لقد شعرت في تلك اللحظة التي عبرت فيها بوابة السجن أنني في الواحدة والسبعين من عمري أبدأ حياتي من جديد، وكانت تلك نهاية عشرة آلاف يوم في السجن"-لحظة خروج مانديلا من السجن، بعد 27 عامًا قضاها وراء القضبانhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=png6c...تهرب مني كل الكلمات حين أريد التعبير عن سير الرجال العظام، ففيها من قوة الإيمان بالأهداف، وفيها من التأثير والمعاناة والطموح ما يفوق كل وصف.
(إنني في قرارة نفسي إنسان متفائل, وإن كنت لا أدري إن كان ذلك في طبيعتي أم في طبعي, ومن علامات التفاؤل أن يحافظ المرء على رأسه مرفوعا نحو السماء, وأن تكون خطاه متجهة إلى الأمام, لقد مرت بي لحظات عديدة اهتزت خلالها ثقتي بالإنسانية, ولكنني لم ولن أستسلم لليأس فذلك هو السبيل إلى الإخفاق والموت المحقق). اعتقد ان قناعات هذا الرجل و ايمانه بفكرته كان مصدر قوته الحقيقى و لا يسعنى الا ان اقول كم انت عظيم يا مانديلا و قد صار كتابك هذا صديقى للابد
The story of freedom fighter, head of state, and world leader, Nelson Mandela--a book that spans his childhood, years spent in prison, and subsequent election as president.
The book is long and quite detailed (at times wordy), with extra care paid to conversations and political names and roles, travels Mandela had with political heads of state, the making of the political group The ANC, the start of the movement to denounce apartheid, and a detailed family tree in the beginning.
First of all let me say that Nelson Mandela is an amazing man who has been through more trials than I could ever imagine, and he faced them with such class and strength.
I am glad I know more about his history and his life as a "freedom fighter," and this book gave me greater appreciation for black South Africans.
However, it was a long, long, long, long walk to freedom.
I guess I like books that are written in story form, which shows some lack of intelligence on my part, unfortunately.
برای من لحظه مشخصی برای کشف حقیقت نبوده و هیچ چیز بخصوصی ناگهان الهام بخش من نشده، بلکه فقط مجموعه ا
ورغم تعاطفي مع آراء الأفارقة والقوميين فقد كنت اعتقد أن النضال من اجل الحرية يتطلب من الإنسان القبول بآراء وسيطة وتقبل نظم قاومها حينما كان أحدث سنا." "ليس هناك أي تعارض لتأييدي الكفاح المسلح وتمسكي بالمفاوضات، فالكفاح المسلح هو الذي أتى بالحكومة إلى حافة المفاوضات."أي أن مانديلا يربط بين الاثنين، ولا يرى الكفاح المسلح غاية، بل وسيلة للوصول إلى المفاوضات، فالمفاوضات بالنسبة له هي الأساس.وعن رأيه في أساليب المقاومة داخل السجن: "وكنت أرى أن مجرد الاضراب عن الطعام داخل السجن أمر غير واقعين فلكي يكون فعالاً يجب أن يعلم به العالم الخارجي، وكانت الاتصالات شبه مستحيلة في تلك السنوات.
Long Walk to Freedom is the first book I've read by the leader of a country containing instructions on how to overthrow a country.Mandela is serious about this.
It's a clarification.This sets us up for the most dramatic scene in the book, and one of the most dramatic in history: the Rivonia Trial in 1964, in which Mandela and several others were sentenced to life in prison for sabotage.
I got to see him speak shortly afterwards in Boston on his freedom tour, but I didn't have a chance to tell him about my hair.This is all to say that reading this book was a powerful experience for me.
White South Africans are incredibly lucky that it was the ANC that came to be the party of power, and that the proposed way forward was one of peaceful reconciliation.* The ANC were not always supported by other black independence groups in South Africa.
Investigations found that the IFP had been given finances by the police, and other bodies that were against the breakdown of apartheid.POLITICS AND LAW IN SOUTH AFRICA* I always thought that the treatment of Africans, before the arrival of The Nationalist Party (the Afrikaans’ party) - in 1948 - was pretty decent.
I tried reading this book SO many times right after it was published - but found myself so upset and saddened, that I realised I was simply not emotionally ready to deal with the contents.
So - it sat on my shelf for nearly 10 years, before I felt ready and healed enough to pick the book up again.It was, for me, a riveting read.
I sobbed my way through a great many of the sections, I learned so much about the history of my country and the genesis of the African National Congress and its original noble and lofty ideals.
I felt very enriched after closing the last page of the book.
Nevertheless, I liked it on account of Mandela’s ideologies, experiences, and speeches he delivered before his people.I enjoyed reading Mandela’s autobiography because of his light English prose as the indication that he had studied well- typical of a smart student studying in English speaking countries.
I would say that Nelson Mandela, along with Malcolm X , has most moving speeches I have read so far.Mandela’s autobiography reminded me of Malcolm X, another Black -American revolutionary who had somewhat the same cause—racial equality.
As a student of his , discombobulated, mulling over his students’ philosophical explanation, upon reading Mandela’s autobiography, it dawned upon me that justice means equality.
In other words, I applied understanding The Republic by Aristotle to Mandela’s book.
It is not just about apartheid; it is not about fighting a harsh regime; it is not about man's inhumanity to man -- and all that "stuff" that so many readily dismiss, once the book is shelved again.It is about one man, walking, and holding his head up despite everything that was thrown upon his shoulders.
It's easy to maintain a posture for a day or a week or a month; but to hold on to it for a lifetime -- that is a strength that only a very few can maintain.To emerge out of the darkness of his prison, of his life, and still shine with hope for humanity -- and faith that goodness will prevail -- leaves me speechless.
All’inizio fatica a trovare una nuova sistemazione, ma poi riesce ad essere assunto come praticante in uno studio legale ed è proprio qui che capisce di voler aiutare e rappresentare tutti gli africani, non solo alcuni.
Conosce Evelyn, la sua prima moglie, dal cui matrimonio nascono un maschio ed una femmina, che, però muore dopo nove mesi.
Nelson apre uno studio legale con Oliver Tambo: è la prima volta che due neri aprono un esercizio tutto loro; sono tantissimi gli africani che vanno nel loro ufficio, perché certi di essere ascoltati e rappresentati.
What a good decision that was.Although I was familiar with Mandela's life and South Africa's struggle against the apartheid regime, this book provided me with much more profound understanding of the struggle and the historical events leading to the eventual overthrow of the racist regime.
Neglected and abandoned by the superpowers of the world, the people of South Africa never lost hope and Mandela is a fascinating and shining example of a man, stripped of everything, who, no matter what life threw in his way, maintained his dignity and his sight not only on the problems, but also on the solutions.
I bought this book in January and didn't get around to reading it until March.
It was informative and I enjoyed learning things from his perspective.
I quite enjoyed the part at the start of the book where he talks about his childhood and his family.
I recommend this book to anyone who is looking to expand their horizons and read a book about one of the most inspirational people ever.
.. وعندما تكون هذه السيرة لشخصية نضالية كنيلسون مانديلا فأعلم أنك ستخوض تجربة فكرية غزيرة و استثنائية لرجل تحوَّل وتطور من كونه ولداً أسوداً يعيش في كوخ في قرية نائية إلى أن أصبح أول رئيس أسود لجنوب أفريقيا منهياً بذلك حقبة التمييز العنصري هناك تنبيه:- الريفيو تخليص لما جاء في الكتاب ولذلك فهو ليس موَّجه لمحبي المراجعات القصيرةقام ملك التيمبو بتنصيب "غادلا هنري مفاكانيسوا" زعيماً على قبيلة مفيتزو وتسمى عشائر هذه القبيلة بالكوسا، وزعيم هذه القبيلة تزوج من أربعة نساء، كل امرأة تنحدر من إحدى العائلات الحاكمة الرئيسية:-الأسرى العظمى وينحدر منها ولى العهد، وأسرة اليمين، ثم أسرة اكزيبا (وتسمى أحياناً اليسار)، وأخيراً صغار العائلات وتسمى بالعائلات المساندة أو الداعمة ...
I am interested in how he became such a leader in the eyes of the people.
Mandela could, at times, invoke certain rules of law, and demand that the protesters were treated fairly under the laws.
In contrast, in South America, a protester could not more begin to speak against the government before being shot, imprisoned or tortured, with no chance of appealing to a higher power for protection.
Maybe that is why there were more rebels in countries trying to overturn the dictatorships than there were revolutionaries in the Western understanding of the term.At the end of the book, when the power was really going to shift and Mandela, in his 80s, was elected president, I actually became more agitated.
Anyway, obviously it was amazing since he knew EVERYTHING about the time and place (he was there afterall), but reading this book before then allowed me to be much more knowledgeable about the politics of the time and more importantly, the life of such an extraodinary man.
Though my anger did boil at times due to the injustice of what was happening, this book is 100% inspiration.
And to top it off, I met Mandela only a few days later at an event he hosted and it was one of very few times in my life that I was in complete awe!
There are also a lot of fascinating things about his story that i didn't know -he grew up literally barefoot in the bush, bailed on being a tribal councilor and ran away from home, and a lot of interesting ins and outs of how african consciousness developed in SA the 60s and 70s, plus tips on how to keep yourself motivated and entertained if you ever end up in jail.
Considering the current state of this country this could turn out to be very useful info if we all wind up in gitmo!
:) Overall I'd say enlightening, inspiring, interesting.
People must learn to hate, and if they can learn to hate, they can be taught to love, for love comes more naturally to the human heart than its opposite.” ~ Nelson MandelaIt has been such an amazing journey.
Nelson Mandela is indeed one of the greatest moral leaders and heroes of our time!
The way and walk to Freedom is long, but Mandela did not give up...
"A leader is like a shepherd, there are times when a leader must move out ahead of his flock, go off in a new direction, confident that he is leading his people in the right way."
I've known far too little about Nelson Mandela.
I knew who he was, of course, and some of the bare outlines of his life.
But I think I'd fallen into knowing little more than what Cornel West, after Mandela's death, called the "Santa-Clausification" of the South African leader.
Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Recently, I was teaching a class where the students read an essay about the reconciliation meetings that were done in South Africa. And my students did not know, or claimed not know, who Mandela was. Sad, but true. As time goes on, we forgot. We are a nation that has been, and in many ways still is, affected by 9-11, but the average college freshman who is currently 18 was 5 then. There are people whose understanding of apartheid, if they have one, is one of distance and this happened last gener
Recently, I was teaching a class where the students read an essay about the reconciliation meetings that were done in South Africa.
And my students did not know, or claimed not know, who Mandela was.
As time goes on, we forgot.
There are people whose understanding of apartheid, if they have one, is one of distance and this happened last generation.
It’s the nature of time, but we do fight against it.
This is why Mandela’s book should be read.
Because Mandela’s book is honesty.
He doesn’t really excuse, but explains the radical steps that he had to take.
Understanding his power, knowledge is power.
قصة تروي مسيرة نضال طويلة من الكوخ الى قصر الرءاسة ومن الجهل المفروض على السود في وطنهم الى المحاماة عرف خلالها مانديلا النضال بكل أشكاله السلمي والمسلحين والعصيان المدني والمظاهرات ودخول السجن للفت الأنظار الى قضيته .
كان صاحب فكرة النضال المسلح وكان اول من تدرب على استعمال السلاح في اثيوبيا .
This book explores his life, historical and political events during his lifetime, his thoughts and feelings as well as his contribution to the fight against apartheid and racism.
The last part of the book deals with his life after prison, politics and the dismantling of apartheid.
While reading this book, one needs to remember that this is Mandela's story, and hence, his viewpoints and his thoughts about life and politics are what have been explained in detail.
It helps to have a basic working knowledge of South African history and politics while reading this book.
My Lord, what a book!
This book depicts the harsh realities of living in the Apartheid South Africa!
Imagine living in a country where you are denied basic human rights, been told you are less because of your skin colour.
The scary thing is that South Africa was not the only country with this sort of system.
Nonetheless, Nelson Mandela's book is truly beautiful, honest, raw, emotional and makes you see that you should never stop fighting against what is wrong.
He is a true testament to courage, bravery and a man who sacrificed his freedom for the freedom of South Africa.
Amazing book!
