https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/187181.The_Chosen
The book jacket tells us that this was the first book (published 1967) that introduced Jewish culture to a wide American audience.The story centers around two boys growing up in the Jewish neighborhood of Williamsburg in Brooklyn in New York City of the 1940’s.
They are devout Orthodox Jews.Due to a baseball injury, he makes friends with another devout Jewish boy who is a Hasidic Jew, destined to inherit his father’s position as a rebbe (tzaddik).
This causes a rift between the boys because some members of the Hassidic community thought it was blasphemy to re-establish Israel prior to the coming of the Messiah.
This was required reading for my sophomore-year honors English class; upon reading chapter one, I prepared myself for great disappointment, firstly because the chapter was entirely about baseball (which although I’ve tried to enjoy I can’t seem to get in to, I’m sorry to say), and secondly because it was so descriptive.
It was hard to imagine me being interested in something so...flowery (in some time I’ll post a review on another required reading, the oh-so-detailed Great Expectations, which hasn’t improved for me even through chapter thirty-six).Coming into the later chapters of The Chosen, I began to enjoy it a lot more.
NEW YEAR RESOLUTION NUMBER 62: READ EVERYTHING WRITTEN BY CHAIM POTOK.I think I might actually end up fulfilling this resolution (unlike most of the others), because “the chosen” was a masterpiece.It's a poignant story about friendship, father-son relationship, about 2 Jew families on the other side of the Zionist movement and the reaction of American Jews to the horrors of holocaust.
He uses complementary and contrasting pairs of characters like Danny Saunder and Reuven Malter (and their fathers) to study the different ways of balancing Jewish observance with life in twentieth-century America.
Danny Saunders was raised in silence to save his soul.
So his father raised him in silence, never speaking to him until Danny learned to listen to that silence, to hear in the silence the cry of millions of his people as they were slaughtered, starved, beaten, and experimented upon by Hilter's army.
It did not make Danny a rabbi, but it saved his soul in the end.
And in that silence, we hear the suffering of the world, of each child that dies every five seconds of hunger.
"This is a man's worldBut it wouldn't be nothing, nothing, not one little thing, without a woman or a girlHe's lost in the wildernessHe's lost in bitterness, he's lost lost"(James Brown, of course)This must have been by far one of the most solemn books I've ever read.
It's a poignant story about two teenagers who grow up in Jewish Orthodox families in Brooklyn, during the period between the end of the second world war and the creation of Israel.
The book immerses the reader not only in a fundamentalist atmosphere, but also in a man's world, in which women are almost totally absent.
Vi è però molto di più : il rapporto di due figli coi rispettivi padri; il fronteggiarsi di due diverse concezioni e tradizioni pur all'interno della stessa religione ebraica...Le vicende si svolgono a New York, nel quartiere dove gli ebrei immigrati dall'Europa hanno ricostituito le loro comunità.Il periodo è compreso tra gli ultimi anni della Seconda Guerra Mondiale e i fatti successivi alla proclamazione dello Stato di Israele nel '48.
I'm 23 years old and I've been reading for most of the time I've been alive. In all those years of reading, I can recall openly sobbing on only two occasions. The first time was in Little Women, when Beth March died. And the second time was in The Chosen, when Reb Saunders said this: "In the silence between us, he began to hear the world crying."
i was litterally gnna shoot myself when reading this boook. i couldnt evn stand it so i decided to buy the audio version on itunes and that was even worse and cost me like 20 dolllaa. i wass like heyllll nawww im not reading dissss but den i did cuzz i kinda had too. its about a jewish nerd who gets hit in the eye when the rivalryy jewish team hits him. they dont like eachother or something i dont know. it was all downhill from there. ysaaaaa heardd???
At its core The Chosen is about the relationship between two Brooklyn boys Danny and Reuven, the world they grow up in, and their relationship with their fathers.
Danny visits Reuven in the hospital and while Reuven is initially hostile to Danny his father convinces him to give Danny and chance and they begin to become friends.The relationship between the two boys blossoms as they grow up.
It was a huge mess and naturally the boys are caught in the middle with Danny's father forbidding Danny from seeing or interacting with Reuven.
We see him grow both as a person coming into his own as a man and his relationship with Danny.
Ever since I saw the movie "A Stranger Among Us" about a New York cop (Melanie Griffith) who has to go undercover in Brooklyn's Hasidic Jewish community to solve a murder, I have been fascinated with the Hasidim.
In "The Chosen," Reuven, an observant Jewish boy becomes best friends with Danny, a Hasidic Jewish boy, during WW2.
Theirs is a beautiful odd friendship in their community and comes under considerable strain by the differing viewpoints of their fathers.
If your heart doesn't break with Reuven's father's the moment he learns that the number of dead Jewish people in Europe is 6 million, you should have your heart checked.
I thought after the baseball game, and then the hospital stay that the book would pick up, but then Danny was interested in psychology, mainly Freud.
So by now, as I am reading this book, I am irritated with it and an thinking of my women Jewish friends who I knew back then, who, when they would hear something that they didn’t like, said, “Oy vey.” I silently screamed, “Oy vey” over and over again.So while Danny wanted to become a psychologist, his father wanted him to become a rabbi.
Theirs is a Jonathan and David friendship, the two-bodies-with-one-soul type of friendship that happens rarely in a lifetime.As the oldest son of the tzaddik (righteous leader) of a strict, Hasidic Jewish sect, Danny is the chosen.
Thus his father, the brilliant but eccentric Reb Saunders, focuses his full attention upon the proper upbringing of his son.But what is a proper upbringing for a genius?
Not a smart son, Reuven, but a brilliant son, a Daniel, a boy with a mind like a jewel.
Reuven, when my Daniel was four years old, I saw him reading a story from a book.
And I was especially disheartened that Danny said he may raise his own son in silence, too, "if I can't find another way." I don't understand the reasoning behind being cruel to your child (because this was definitely emotional abandonment and neglect, if not outright abuse) in order to teach him compassion.
There are better ways to teach compassion, even to intellectual geniuses like Danny.For more book reviews, visit my blog, Build Enough Bookshelves.

The Chosen is about a friendship between a Modern Orthodox Jew, Reuven Malter, and a Hasidic Jew named Danny Saunders.
I only heard about Chaim Potok and this book recently, which surprised my wife; for her, The Chosen was a core high school text.There's a lot of attention to analysis of the Talmud, a dizzying body of arcane arguments about religious details.
Danny's father, in a story so crazy it must be true, hasn't spoken to him since he was an infant; they discuss Talmud together but otherwise don't communicate at all.
But I’m still INCREDIBLY confused as to Danny and his Father and what on earth was even going on with them and what the point of it all was.
After reading the ending, I have a vague-ish idea, but I’m still 89% confused.
I think that was sort of how the author meant it to be, and I’m sure it’s probably historically accurate, but it just wasn’t explained well.
So if anyone wants to help me clear up the whole silence thing then comment below because I’m a pile of confusion at the moment.
They've reminded me that there are definite friendships that I cherish highly, and that true friends are hard to come by.
I guess after reading this, it's made me sit back and just realize that I do cherish and love my friends and that without them, I wouldn't be able to get through this life.
I really like the parts of the book where it focuses on the relationship between the two boys and their respective fathers.
I highly recommend this book, especially if you want to reaffirm what true friendship means to you.

I was charmed by Reuven and Danny, and their ability to bridge differences to nurture their loyal friendship.
That and how the author creates a strong sense of time and the orthodox Jewish culture and lifestyle in the mid 1900's engaged me.Some parts of the book were harder for me to enjoy.
I slogged through many of religious details and history and the lectures and debates.I loved Reuven's relationship with his father.
Danny's with his was hard to fathom and heartbreaking.
The non-religious history, especially the country's response to Roosevelt's death, the discovery of the horror of the concentration camps, and the resulting Zionist movement moved me and kept my interest.
This book holds up so well to multiple re-readings.
This time, I'm unconvinced that raising a child in silence, as Danny's father does, will result in a compassionate child, but I am moved by Danny's struggle to be both himself and what his father and his father's followers need him to be.
Reuven, the narrator, serves both as a channel for what the reader (who can't be presumed to know anything about Orthodox Jews) needs to learn and as a support for the brilliant Danny, without being diminished by his best friend's brilliance.
It's a brilliant book, emotionally challenging, and one I will no doubt come back to again.
This should be required reading for college courses in Gay Studies/Gay Literature.
It is small wonder that Potok's inspiration for writing came from reading Brideshead Revisted.
Reuven's narration, particularly the ways he describes Danny, is a virtual textbook case of repressed desire.
This repression is consistent with one of the novel's themes: silence.
Having read this book, originally, many years ago, I did not pick up on Reuven's infatuation in the same way I've since come to recognize.
In that regard, rereading The Chosen as an adult is much like rereading The Picture of Dorian Gray as an adult--with more experience, each becomes a very different novel.
There are dozens of topics within his books to discuss, enjoy and ponder, but he manages to twist and turn his story, so at its end, you get the Rubik's cube sides all neatly back to the same color.Like My Name Is Asher Lev, which I loved, Potok writes about a Jewish boy torn between his own genius and his orthodox father's expectations.
They don't see the world around them.Ding, ding, ding!!!Like poor Reb Saunders had to discover by isolating his son from his best friend, and what David Saunders knew, but didn't have the courage to proclaim, good exists in all shapes and sizes and from all walks of life.
Today I discussed this all-male book with a small group of all-male max security prisoners.
One prisoner hoped that the Hasidic Danny and the Modern Orthodox Reuven would battle it out over Talmud.
Did this book do for Talmud study what the Leon Uris’s Exodus did for Zionism?
Re-reading the Chosen, I was struck by the emphasis placed on Zionism as Reuven’s father works feverishly—literally, every character is sick or sickly in this book—for a Jewish State back when that was something you could root for with little qualification.
(...as immature boys won't be able to understand/appreciate a close and beautiful bond between two heterosexual boys)I loved this book.
I read the Asher Lev books in high school and loved them, but this was great in a whole different way.
Explicit (although not too 'in your face') theme of seeing and not seeing, a view of Jewish life and culture in America during and post WWII, and beautiful/touching portrayal of many different types of relationships (with family, friends, and strangers).The book, in addition to being well written, gave a great history of the Jewish issues and polarization after WWII, with the fight to create a Jewish state.
Re-reading in July 2015:Review from first reading in May 2014:What an interesting education I received from this book!
I learned so much about the nuances of the Jewish faith and the challenges they faced during and after World War II.
I never knew of the Jewish resistance to the Israel state.
In addition to being extremely fascinating and highly educational, this book caused great reflection for my own life.
While we grow to love Ruven and Danny and their fathers and get lost in their stories, this book also allows the reader to consider carefully how these life lessons can be applied to our own lives.
A very well-written, highly didactic and compellingly self reflective text.
Think you got a great education? Follow these teenage boys as they learn about one another, their faith and their relationship with their fathers. The rigorous studying that they do is foreign to today's youth. A classic in so many ways.
La loro strada nel mondoHo trovato questo libro molto interessante perché, attraverso la storia di due ragazzi, racconta due modi antitetici di essere ebrei negli Stati Uniti.
Buona parte della comunità ebraica americana ritenne che la sopravvivenza degli ebrei nel mondo fosse legata alla nascita di uno stato in Medio Oriente, l’attuale Israele.
Le correnti più legate alla tradizione ashkenazita e certamente i chassidim erano invece fortemente contrari, ritenendo che se quella era stata la volontà di Dio, avrebbero dovuto continuare a essere ebrei della diaspora e che fondando uno stato la purezza della loro religione sarebbe dovuta scendere a compromessi.
Il romanzo racconta come i due ragazzi trovano la loro strada nel mondo.
Danny e Rewen, i due giovani protagonisti di questo romanzo, vivono entrambi a Brooklyn e sono entrambi ebrei, anche se appartengono a due diverse comunità.
Con questo romanzo Potok ci introduce in un mondo complesso.È un romanzo storico che parla degli ebrei americani, della controversa nascita dello Stato ebraico in Palestina ed anche della storia del popolo ebraico.
È un romanzo che racconta un’amicizia profonda, la formazione di due giovani, il rapporto tra padre e figlio, la tradizione, due differenti metodi educativi.
Vomit. I just wasn't really into it. I understood it and stuff, I just think there are better books.
During this time World War II comes to an end and the chilling sobering horrifying fact that six million European Jews perished in Hitler's wake came to be known.Reuven's father becomes politically active in the effort to form a Jewish State -- a place that Jews could call a homeland, where they could find sanctuary.
Both Danny and Reuven learned to listen, to understand, and to see more clearly through the charity of their elders.Forgiveness is the only way to heal the heart.
