https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2305740.Indian_Heroes_and_Great_Chieftains
Who better to chronicle the great deeds, sorrows, bravery and honor of some of America’s greatest chiefs than a Santee Sioux?
Eastman seeks to correct many misunderstandings about Native Americans and portrays leaders in the Sioux, Cheyenne and Nez Perce nations in a realistic light.Here are the stories of some of the famous chiefs, Sitting Bull, Crazy Horse and Red Cloud, as well as tales of those whose names may not be as familiar to us, such as Two Strike, Dull Knife, Hole-in-the-Day, Tamahay or Gall.
Anyone who loves the history of the American West will enjoy reading this interesting perspective, told with honor by a true American.
However, I know some rough pictures on European immigrants invasion to New World, how they seize it from Native Americans and robbed them their culture, language and religion.
I won't condemn the Americans because they have destroyed one nation to build a new.
I won't condemn the Americans that they have destroyed one culture to create a new one.
I won't condemn the Americans that they imposed their religion just because they believed that worshiping Nature is a fault.
Sitting BullIt was the White men found the yellow metal in our country and came in great numbers, driving away our game, that we took up against them for the last time.
An excellent readA short but concise synopsis on many great indian leaders, a super and enthralling read if you love western history.
The tale of the vanquished. As a historical work, it may be important .
A great introduction to past key members of the Sioux tribe as well as other tribes. Each chapter is a brief history of previous Native hero and Chieftan.
interesting information, personal details
Great little book giving a brief history of great chieftans that we all know about through the movies.
In this beautifully written book, he profiles fifteen Native leaders, many of whom he knew and interviewed personally: Red Cloud, Spotted Tail, Little Crow, Tamahay, Gall, Crazy Horse, Sitting Bull, Rain-in-the-Face, Two Strike, American Horse, Dull Knife, Roman Nose, Chief Joseph, Little Wolf, and Hole-in-the-Day. Among these men were assimilationists and traditionalists, men who died as heroes and men who were considered traitors to their people.
Hidden within his biographical sketches are poignant and penetrating insights about human nature, American Indian culture and values, and the often difficult relationship between Native America and the United States.
As a historical document, a work of Native literature, and a fascinating series of portraits from a vanished era, this is a moving and meaningful read.
My favorite passage from this book was a retelling of what a chief addressed to his people one last time:Yet hear me, friends!
we have now to deal with another people, small and feeble when our forefathers first met with them, but now great and overbearing.
These people have made many rules that the rich may break, but the poor may not!
They have a religion in which the poor worship, but the rich will not!
They even take tithes of the poor and weak to support the rich and those who rule.
Reading this book at this time makes me compare the Native Americans' position to Egyptians'. SCAF just seems quite similar to "Great Father at Washington". Dealing with them can't be in the old way. They proved to be untrustworthy with the Natives, and I dare say, are not trustworthy in Egypt.Though the circumstances and history are quite different, I think there's much to learn from Native American history. And what better source to learn from than Native American writers.
Finished this today and while I had heard a few of the names mentioned in the book such as Crazy Horse and Sitting Bull my understanding of them was deepened and a few other names were introduced to me as well. Rain in the Face, Roman Nose and Hole in the Day to name a few made the book a worth while read.
Good insight to many lesser known chiefsI found the brief histories of the lesser known chiefs very interesting and would recommend this as a good starting point for studies of the Indian leaders in the nineteenth century
This should be read before or as a companion to Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee.
