https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/234633.Stilwell_and_the_American_Experience_in_China_1911_45
Nothing wrong with that, of course; but it does conjure up a certain delicacy, a life lived in equal parts libraries and privilege.But on the back of this book, Stilwell and the American Experience in China, 1911-45, the author looks out at me from atop a burro, her means of transportation in the 1930s in China at the time of the Japanese invasion, looking very much like Christiane Amanpour without the makeup.
And now Stilwell - Vinegar Joe, Uncle Joe - to explain...well: 20th Century Chinese history; military bureaucracy; British imperialistic aims in WWII; why the Chinese hate the word ‘no’; why Mountbatten was a horse’s ass; why Chiang Kai-shek was a horse’s ass; why we picked the wrong horse; why you can’t be honest.
Somehow in my reading experience, I missed this Barbara Tuchman book and I thought I had read all of her works.
I am so glad I found it since it opens up some of the little known facts about China during WWII......a puzzle within a puzzle within a puzzle.
At almost 700 pages one might think it would be a dry read but it is fascinating and certainly explodes some of the myths about China's role in WWII.
I first read this book about 25 years ago.
Along with McCullough's Truman, this is one of the finest biographies I have ever read.
The Stilwell biography relentlessly pounds home the lesson that we as Americans can never expect members of alien cultures to have the same goals and motivations that we have.
Stilwell tried mightily to get Chiang to fight China's Japanese invaders, and utterly failed.
As a result, Chiang lost the respect of the Chinese people, and became highly vulnerable to being ousted by the Communists.
So the simple answer to the burning question of the 1950's (Who lost China?) is Chiang.
Stillwell was independent-minded and often clashed with both the Chinese government and those in Washington.It did not take Stillwell long to realize that the Kuomintang and Chiang Kai-shek were not acting in the best interests of the Chinese people.
They could hardly mention that they were spending more time fighting the Chinese communists, and that these same Chinese communists were far more successful in reforming and improving the life of the masses of the Chinese peasants.This is a long book, with the advantage that one gets a detailed look at foreign entanglements that are still valid to this day.
It is difficult to decide whether this title is best categorized as history, for it is about China, or biography, for it China as seen through the career of Joseph Stilwell.
Indeed, it is often through his eyes as Tuchman had access through his surviving family to Stilwell's correspondence, notes and voluminous journals.In any case, you will learn about the man, the nation and about the eastern theatre of the second world war from reading this book.
Tuchman, at her best, writes a narrative as interesting as a novel.
You'll learn despite yourself while enjoying the read.
The fact is that the huge amount of war material that was sent to China, in the belief that China would fight the Japs, was totally and completely wasted.
Half of the material provided was sold in the black market and the other half was stored in warehouses to be ready for the civil war that would follow the defeat of Japan by the U.S.General Stillwell was sent to China in 1942 to direct the use of the Chinese troops and the war material to fight the Japanese.
Chang finally had Stillwell fired because he annoyed him so much with repeated efforts to get China to fight.
While Eisenhower, Patton, Bradley, and MacArthur became household names, folks either have to go to a war museum or read this book to learn about General Joseph (Vinegar Joe) Stilwell.
Stilwell fought not only the Japanese, but all the maladies and dangers of jungle fighting.
He did so with secondary or even tertiary priority for both troops and supplies, with mounting frustration over the fact that the US would not provide arms to the communists, who would fight the Japanese, and instead gave them to the Nationalists, who stockpiled them for a post-war fight with the communists.
For a history book it is exceptionally easy to read.
Focused on an oft ignored subject with mostly unknown, extremely charismatic characters. Incredible in its breadth and depth. Novelistic in its attention to detail and the interiority of its main subject, whose journals allow the reader to actually come to know Stilwell in ways that most histories never even approach. Stands with "A Bright Shining Lie" as one of the great works of American history.
Yah, Stilwell was right up there with them as a 4-star general and commander of the China-Burma-India theater during World War II.
He wasn't a demigod like McArthur.
He was Eisenhower's and McArthur's equal as a theater commander (Eisenhower in Europe, McArther in the Pacific, Stilwell in China-Burma-India).
Wait until others defeat the Japanese for us.It was such a radically illogical outlook to war-fighting to the Americans that Stilwell had what was openly-acknowledged as an impossible job to train and command the Chinese forces.
He wasn't conniving and domineering like McArthur.
It covers the period from the fall of the last Emperor of China through World War II, on the cusp of the civil war between Chiang Kai-shek's nationalist Kuomintang and Mao's insurgents.It is a dense and thoroughly, almost incredibly so, researched work.
His knowledge and effectiveness culminated in assignments to Southeast Asia during World War II.Stilwell and Chiang Kai-shek could not be more unlike.
Incredibly, at one point, Roosevelt virtually ordered Chiang to accept Stilwell as the commander of Chinese forces, in the hopes of getting some assistance from the Chinese in the struggle with Japan.Tuchman is not only good a telling a great story.
If you're not drinking Narragansett, you're still reading Stilwell and the American Experience in China.
Otherwise, Stilwell and the American Experience in China is an interesting history of Sino-Western relations and how it was impacted by a lesser known theater of World War II.When I walk the dogs tonight our first stop will be the overnight drop box at the public library so they can't accuse me of hoarding books like Chiang Kai-shek did with Lend-Lease Act weapons and equipment.
I think the best things I got out of it was what it was like in China, and what happened there during and after World war Two. When I was reading the book, I realized that in my grade school and high school times, I was never really taught anything about what happened in China in those times.
In World War Two, Japan nearly overran China in it's entirety.
This book clearly covers that.
All in all, if you are interested in these subjects, this book is for you.
A fascinating book about an world war II general, "Vinegar Joe" Stilwell, about China and Chang Kai Shek, and about American policy in the Far East.
Stilwell spent the majority of his military career in China including leading the Burma campaign.
He and Chang Kai Shek were at constant loggerheads as to military strategy and tactics.
Chang was seeking to be as well equipped after the war in order to face the Cpolommunists after the war.
In many ways this is as much of a biography of General Stilwell as it is of China from the revolution to the end of WW II.
The good things about this book are the parts about Stilwell and his experience in the American military.
By thinking that many of the actors in her story have a 'race mind' that does not allow them to comprehend universal values like democracy, she is not able to understand half of the people she talks about in her book, denuding much of her history of its ability to comprehend its subjects.
On the positive end, Tuchman is great at understanding the American military, and this half of her drama is well told.
David Halberstam mentions this book in The Best and The Brightest as a detailed study of the background in China that drove American decision-making in the 1950s and 1960s.
Tuchman is an excellent writer (won the Pulitzer for this one), and the story follows the career of General Joseph "Vinegar Joe" Stilwell in China from 1911-1945.
Whether the ensuing forty years of America's China (and Asia) policy might have been different - and significantly more constructive - had Roosevelt listened to George Marshall and his protege Stilwell is unknowable, but the repeating patterns of history are troubling, to say the least.
The title in the 1970 Macmillan edition was "Sand Against the Wind: Stilwell & the American Experience in China 1911-45". Unfortunately, the new editions have eliminated the phrase "Sand Against the Wind."This phrase cogently summed up what Stilwell was desperately trying to achieve in China working with or without the co-operation of Chiang Kai-shek.It is rare to find female historians writing about what is essentially military history. The late Ms Tuchman has raised the bar for military historical writing by several notches.
Excellent account of the frustrations of Stilwell trying to ensure an active participation of the Chinese nationalists in the Second World War portion of the fight against the Japanese. Writing in the early 1970'es Barbara Tuchman - perhaps with a hidden agenda - demonstrates the how American forthrightness and can do attitude ultimately comes to naught when face with the vastly more expanded time-perspective and more shrewd and cynical perspectives of the Middle Kingdom.
Americans screwing up in Asia is a long tradition.
Read by Pam Ward. Unabridgedrosado mp3
He was considered the best corps commander in the services (over Eisenhower and others) but since he was the only one who spoke and read Chinese and knew China firsthand, he was sent to China to deal with Chiang Kai-shek.
Although Stilwell worked unceasingly to train China's soldiers, it was a failed mission because the canyon between the oriental and western mindset was unnavigable.
~ After the fall of Burma to the Japanese in 1942, Stilwell took his Chinese soldiers, Burmese nurses, American and English staff on foot over a 7,000 ft.
One side note: I found the role of American and English missionaries fascinating.
Without a strong revolutionary leader or support from the public, the new Chinese republic was anything but promising.Stilwell was the US General rated by Marshall (Chief of Staff at the beginning of the WWI) as his top field commander, who, were it not for his extensive knowledge of and experience in China, might have been one of the great (and well-known) US generals of WWII in Europe.
He needed the US, primarily for the supplies he could get through Lend Lease and the international support that allowed China to emerge from the war as a "great power", though he always refused to fight, even when Stilwell trained his armies and commanded himself.
(If you have relied on American media and movies to tell you what went on in that era, then you don't know anything about American history from that period.) As I continued reading the book, a page or two at a time, even though I was now a college graduate, I was only vaguely aware of the Chinese campaign area during the war.
Barbara Tuchman, one of our most respected historians, was an American war correspondent who followed Stilwell's camp as he built his Burma road, provided support for the Flying Tigers, and feuded with Chaing Kai Chek, who had left Stilwell stranded to fight the Japanese alone several times during the campaign.
2. Tuchman has an extraordinary way with words, but this tome is tedious more often than not.
2½. Tuchman has an extraordinary way with words, but this tome is tedious more often than not.
She succeeds at the former a lot more than the latter, in part because this book is just way too US-centric.Tuchman does a remarkable job of trying to understand Chinese culture, but at the end of the book one still feels like one is reading a history of China written by an American and primarily concerned with China as perceived by the US.Tucchman doesn't quite give us a biography of Stillwell - his early life is very briefly discussed and the majority of the book focuses on his experience in WWII - and she doesn't quite tell the story of the US experience in China - the earliest interventions are given as back story and US involvement in the end of the Chinese civil war is denouement - but there are still some very interesting things to learn in this book.
While the allies sided with the Nationalists, CKS was reluctant to allow Stillwell to use his “personal” army for fear of being left defenseless against the Communists, whom he viewed as a bigger threat to his hold on power than the Japanese.
And given Stillwell’s position as a foreign officer, his authority was in question, meaning the Chinese solider had to be persuaded, cajoled, threatened, and/or ass-kissed before they would be led by the offensive-natured Stillwell.
With that out of the way, this was an amazing journey and life story of a little known American hero.
He was a hero because he believed that anything can be done (there is nothing that was impossible) and the best thing to do is to "Get on with it".
Things were "very simple, {just} keep going".
Learned so much from this book about Chiang Kai-Shek, the China-Burma-India theater during WWII, a tad about the Communists and about Joseph Stilwell's life.
Cover Art: 4 out of 5: Big picture of a statue with a small inset of Stilwell.
But having said that the reader will also be rewarded with a far better understanding at the conclusion of how Mao was able to rise to power while the Nationalist Chinese were forced to flee to Taiwan and just how badly our nation screwed the pooch when we could have gained China as a friendly nation.
The extraordinary intelligence, personal bravery and leadership ability of this remarkable American Army General is one of the great and little-known secrets of WWII.
The reader of this book, will lay it down upon completion in awe of this remarkable leader who was often referred to as the General Platoon Leader!
Ostensibly about American Joseph Stilwell, a West Point graduate who spent years in China on-and-off between 1911 and 1945 as a visitor, as military attaché, and finally as theatre commander during World War II, it really is the underlying story of China’s evolution from the rule of dynasties to a struggle for the heart of a new nation-state.
The fall of the Manchu Dynasty, the rise of Sun Yat-sen as President, then his disciple Chiang Kai-shek and the Kuomintang party, and the groundwork for a Communist nation under Mao Tse-tung and Chou En-lai at the end of World War II are covered.
Barbara Tuchman chooses obscure historical people and subjects from well documented and written eras of time.
In this book, she focuses the first half of the twentieth century on China through the American Army man Joseph Stilwell.
He was perhaps one of the greatest American generals of World War II and yet I had learned nothing from documentaries and school about this man.
I can see why Tuchman won a Pulitzer Prize for this book.
She has thoroughly research the subjects surrounding Stilwell and the Chinese who he engaged.
She opened my eyes to Chinese history of the Revolution which overthrew the emperor to the end of WWII.
Tuchman illuminates the distinguished, dispiriting career of one of America's greatest WWII commanders, General Joseph Stilwell, with both fairness and compassion.
Duty defines the life of a man who slogged through China, fought through northern Burma to support China, and persisted through a tortuous relationship with the moribund government of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-Shek.
Stilwell may have retreated in life, but he never surrendered, and his legacy is one of immense trial and impossible circumstances.
Any leader would be lucky to have a Stilwell in her councils and should put the time into learning about the challenges of allies, the difficulties of command, and the possibilities of human will and organization.
