https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13595639-the-name-of-the-star
Hilarious, fun and mysterious read that I recommend everyone read!
More murders happen in the neighborhood of Rory's school, and one day she crosses paths with the killer.
Rory soon discovers that she possesses an ability to see ghosts and is eager to assist the ghost police of London in its search for the serial killer.Jack the Ripper's case is a truly fascinating and gruesome one.
Murders are happening all around the boarding school (one in its yard!), but the main character's supposedly caring parents don't bat an eye and do not bother to withdraw Rory from school.
Here you will find the following statement:“To my friends, Scott Westerfeld, Justine Larbalestier, Robin Wasserman, Holly Black, Cassie Clare, Sarah Rees Brennan, John Green, Libba Bray, Ally Carter… who read drafts, walked me through plot problems, and talked me off of ledges.”I don’t know about you but I find it appalling that Johnson and publisher G.P. Putnam’s Sons would stoop so low.
The Ripper theme wasn't as strong as I had hoped but there were a handful of chapters towards the end where I actually felt the book was getting better.
When I read that Johnson was publishing a paranormal YA book I knew I had to read it.Rory is a Southern girl going to school in London, I adore the way Rory sees the city and the brilliant deductions she makes about all things British.
She is having an okay time at school, making friends and learning to fit in then she starts seeing things, things that no one else sees.Not long after Rory sees a man that her roommate didn’t Rippermania seizes London.
Will the special team of Scotland Yard detectives be able to stop the Ripper before he strikes again?The Name of the Star is full of edge-of-your-seat thrills, laugh-out-loud moments and quotable phrases.
Audio book narrated by Nicola Barber(9h 50 min) Goodreads has a great synopsis so I will not rehash the details here. Quite simply, "The Name of the Star" is a contemporary YA mystery with a mixture of romance and the supernatural set in London with a Jack the Ripper copycat. But like other reviewers, I felt there were so many chapters that served as "fillers" Pages of Rory's crazy family from Louisiana and endless details on the life of a British boarding school. A decent book, but it left me feeling unsatisfied.
Amazing!! listened to the audiobook while driving back and forth on tour stops. I HATE driving long hours but I was honestly excited about getting back in the car so I could hit play and dive back into the world. plus, the woman who does the audio does TONS of accents and it was incredible! this story is creepy, unique, and has a touch of Gothic feel that I just adore. ordered book 2 the second I finished :)
This is actually the first book I’ve read that’s by Maureen Johnson, so I didn’t know what to expect.
A few weeks ago before reading the book, I (foolishly) thought that this was a historical paranormal.
At the start, I didn’t feel like I’m reading a paranormal story.
Maybe that’s because I personally think it’s quite a masculine name for a girl and the fact that I know three boys called Rory in my school doesn’t help.
I think it’s one of those books that don’t leave you hanging; the story has a beginning, middle and the end.
I thought the Jack The Ripper was stuff was interesting albeit a little on the fantastical side (the way London and the general media was reacting to these murders) but it didn't ruin the story for me.
I enjoyed the main character, I enjoyed reading about the London boarding school life (which was surprising, as I'm a little burnt out on boarding school stories) and I found some parts to shockingly creepy - this book has just the right amount of spook in it.
Some of the side characters felt a little flat to me, but I loved the Shades and I loved the antagonist.
I read it after seeing many dazzling reviews, so my expectations were quite high and though it wasn't perfect, I was very satisfied with it.Jack the Ripper!
She obviously did her research and added quite a bit of actual Ripper facts in the story which was very interesting.
Then she added some great plot elements to make it an original and refreshing story.The first part of the book we have Rory who has moved to London to attend a private school.
That is all I can say without giving away spoilers, but I think those who've read it will understand.
Αυτό το βιβλίο έχει μέσα μυστήριο: τον Τζακ τον Αντεροβγάλτη με τους ανατριχιαστικούς του φόνους. Είναι φαντασίας: παραφυσικές δραστηριότητες και πολλά φαντάσματα. Έχει ανάλαφρο χιούμορ: η ηρωίδα είναι γλυκιά, γκαφατζού και πολυλογού. Και όλα αυτά ταιριασμένα αρμονικά και στις σωστές δόσεις. Δηλαδή εντάξει… τι άλλο θα μπορούσα να ζητήσω;
Fand es richtig cool! Toller Schreibstil, gute Geschichte. Und wenn Jack the Ripper vorkommt hat man bei mir sowieso gewonnen.
DNF.
Not bothering with an actual review.
What a disappointing and dull book.
You would expect a book about Jack the ripper to be an enjoyable and entertaining read.
Though it was an absolute fail for a Jack the ripper story.
I can't stop remembering this particular scene...It’s when Rory and her love interest are kissing, and they pull apart and a string of their saliva hangs in-between them or something.
Who the fuck puts that kind of description in a kissing scene?
What a turn off.
Kind of reminds me of that.
Nonetheless some might enjoy this book though.
I don't quite know why, but I think it may have been that I wanted more creepy, serial killer craziness and not so much about supernatural powers.
The facts of the Jack the Ripper murders are so well-documented and easy to find I probably would've stopped reading the book had a fact been wrong.
The end really had all the action that I had been waiting patiently for, and made the book definitely worth my time.If you're creepy like me and love Jack the Ripper, this is a sure bet.
Such a marvelous concoction of suspense, humor, young adult emotions and situations, and yes, out and out terror in some parts of the book.
People I recommend this book to:*Ripperologists or Folks who are 'into' Jack the Ripper*Anglophiles*People who have an obsession with boarding school (like myself)*People who like Southerners and Southern philosophy on life*People who like sausage (you have to read to know where I am going with this)*People who like ghost stories*People who like 80s new wave like The Smiths and The Cure*People who like a good, well-written suspense novel*People who like fish out of water books, specifically Americans in BritainIf any of these things sound like you, read this book!
It's unfortunate to be on a YA Mystery binge and reach for a book marketed as YA Mystery, labeled as YA Mystery, dressed as YA Mystery...... and which decidedly isn't YA Mystery.But, hey, boarding school shenanigans!
But, I suppose it just wasn't quite as good as I had hoped it would be.First of all, I thought this book was going to be historical fiction, about Jack the Ripper.
And since I hadn't seen Maureen Johnson do historical fiction yet, I was like, "OOH GOODIES.
She knows next to nothing about England or the way the British school system works––so basically, she just tries to figure it out for about the first fourth of the book.
I enjoyed reading it; I liked the humor and the characters and the premise (although it was a little confusingly executed).
The Name of the Star is the second book I've read by Maureen Johnson.
I admit that I love reading her blog and her Twitter feed, but 13 Little Blue Envelopes fell a little flat for me so I always assumed I liked Maureen more than I actually liked her work.
First thing you need to know: this book is funny.
Yes, there's blood, mad murderers on the loose and many creepy encounters, but Maureen makes sure the reader has something to grin about every few pages.
The second thing you need to know: it's a clever book.
3.75/5 〜 ITA/ENG (NOW ADDED) “Ciò che temete è il nome della stella.” Classico libro Urban Fantasy ma con un finale molto promettente!Allora da quel che mi risulta è stato tradotto purtroppo solo il primo libro della serie, peccato.La trama è molto semplice da seguire, svolgimento abbastanza lentino nella prima parte, e parecchio avvincente invece nella seconda.Si parte con il classico trasferimento di città/scuola e la nostra protagonista, Rory, deve affrontare i classici problemi de teenager c

That last page!This better be part of a series, or I will have a mini fit.The Name of the Star was one heck of a book - creepy, funny, adventure-and-action filled, I really enjoyed it!
There's just something about Jack the Ripper that sends shivers down your spine.
I knew, reading this, that I was going to look into the original Ripper murders, and my goodness, some of those images have been forever burned into my brain.
The Name of the Star was clever, well written and had my attention the whole way through.
This is the story of Aurora, or Rory as she's known, who moves from Louisiana to London.
Her parents have moved to Bristol but Rory is enrolled in a boarding school, Wexford, in the East End of London.
Soon after she arrives there is a body found, and it seems that Jack the Ripper is back.Rory is drawn into the investigation because she has seen the murderer, and he knows that she has seen him.I loved this book.
Before I was even half way through I ordered the other books in the series and I'll be reading them very soon.One of my favourites of the year.
A great YA paranormal urban fantasy story and the good news is this is a series. This is my first read of this author and I was impressed with the gentle humour and genuine insight into the mind of late teens in general and Rory, the main character's, personality. The supporting characters are likeable too and the fact that the focus of this book was not teenaged angst and romance was a big plus. Call-me-Claudia, the hockey-loving house mistress was good fun too. I shall definitely be continuing this series. Recommended.
Oha, das Ende. Brauch ich wohl doch bald den nächsten Teil ;)
So, this book is… like Harry Potter, except Peeves is the villain and there's no magic.
- Sassy main character - Both have abilities that make them ~different~ Yer a ghost seer, Rory.
- I liked Jazza, but I didn't like how Jazza was pushed to the wayside when the ghost-seeing plot twist (?
Like I actually thought the identity of the Ripper was going to be a surprise.
I thought she was going to accidentally date the Ripper.
- It didn't even occur to Rory she was seeing ghosts??
- I did like the concept of ghosts in here, though.
I skimmed through the last 100 pages really fast so I don’t even know how this ends but I don’t care.I wasn’t expecting much but at least the first half was entertaining.
I don’t know what it is but they feel boring and flat, as if every character is always talking through a glass panel.
Jerome was kinda cute but he had no depth, he was just Rory’s love interest and nothing else.The full descriptions of Rory’s insane family were so unnecessary and embarrassing.This year 2018 I’ve been tackling my oldest TBR of YA from 2010/2013 and honestly it’s not worth it.
I’ve hated every single one *cries*
Φαντάσματα, χιούμορ, μια αξιολάτρευτη ηρωίδα και τον Τζακ τον Αντεροβγάλτη.
Όταν φτάνει όμως, γίνεται μια δολοφονία με τον ίδιο τρόπο που χτύπαγε και ο Τζακ ο Αντεροβγάλτης.
Οι δολοφονίες συνεχίζονται και η ζωή της Ρόρι στο σχολείο αναστατώνεται διαρκώς μιας και το σχολείο της βρίσκεται στο Ανατολικό Λονδίνο όπου δρα και ο νέος Τζακ.
Η μόνη που μπορεί να λύσει το μυστήριο είναι η Ρόρι μιας και είναι η μόνη που έχει δει τον δολοφόνο.
Μαζί με την παρέα της θα προσπαθήσει να λύσει αυτό το κουβάρι και θα βρεθεί αντιμέτωπη με τις ιδιαίτερες ικανότητες που μαθαίνει ότι έχει.
So when I saw that Maureen Johnson had chosen to set her story around Jack the Ripper, and in my home city of London, I instantly knew I had to read it.
Someone has killed a woman in exactly the same way that Jack the Ripper murdered his first victim.
It's not long before it's her turn to be a target of the new Ripper.It's clear that Johnson knows her stuff, right from the beginning.
Rory was independent, down-to-earth and generally really likeable.I mentioned plot developments.
I'm weird, I know.This being the first book by Maureen Johnson that I've read, I'm sufficiently impressed.
Therefore I am a judge a book by it's cover type of person.That being said, I chose to read this entirely because I loved Maureen Johnson's story in Let It Snow.
It did not disappoint.Johnson managed to include this really unique idea and plot point into a story that I already liked.
I would have loved to just read about a Jack the Ripper copycat, but the extra plots and storylines she included were amazing.Her character building is so well done, I can see how talented Maureen Johnson is just from this one book.
I was really enjoying the mystery and the story of this Jack the Ripper copy cat.The story opens with Rory Deveaux; just ordinary, very boring character, starting a new chapter in her life.
Rory and some newly found friends are interested in uncovering the mystery but that is pretty much where the excitement ends.I love books about serial killers, I love to read dark macabre mysteries and even a novel about Jack the Ripper sounds like a good read; turns out, I don’t like Paranormal YA.
But the main character, Rory Deveraux, made me think of Karen Marie Moning’s MacKayla Lane (the Fever series)—both are Southern girls with professional parents who go to school in the U.K. Both girls are capable of seeing things that ordinary people can’t—MacKayla sees the Fae, Rory sees dead people.
Later, Rory says, “She introduced herself to my parents with one of her mighty, bunny-crushing handshakes.
(I’d never seen Claudia crush a bunny, to be fair, but that’s the approximate level of pressure.)” Perhaps she’s a bit of a female Hagrid, despite the fact that this is not a school for wizards.The real details of homework, living in residence, cafeteria meals, etc.
This was one of those books that made me remember why I like to read YA fiction so much. The main character was funny and she didn't take herself too seriously, and acted in a way that seemed completely realistic for a young adult in that situation. The story moved along nicely and built up a good deal of suspense along the way, and the cast of supporting characters were nicely developed and had legitimate voices of their own. Overall, it was just very satisfying, and made me want to read the next book in the series right away.
