https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/98943.The_Pisan_Cantos
The 5-stars is for the meticulous and informed edition (including detailed notes and commentary). As to the content, I find poetry difficult and often tedious, and this text was particularly difficult. I can't say I understood much of it. Obviously, it requires far more time and effort than I have at present.
Perhaps the most insightful view of the malaise which overtook the world in the first half of the 20th century. Pound's attempt to liken Europe after WWI and during WWII as a hell like Dante's Inferno creates an intensity and a viewpoint which has not been matched in the last 60 years.
If the naval battle of Salamis seems a far-fetched connection to usury and Mussolini, perhaps less than relevant, we’ll, it’s no surprise.But the beauty of this book is in watching the grand battle between Pound's political and philosophical obsessions, the shades of the dead moving among his many memories, and finally, most importantly, the wondrous way the moment intrudes in his writing: "Where I lie let the thyme rise / and basilicum / let the herbs rise in April abundant" 82.
The first several books of the Pisan Cantos are of less interest to me because Pound still hasn't gotten out of his head.
'yet say this to the Possum: a bang, not a whimper, with a bang not with a whimper, To build the city of Dioce whose terraces are the colour of stars.'--------------------------------------------I have tried to write ParadiseDo not moveLet the wind speakthat is paradise.Let the Gods forgive what Ihave madeLet those I love try to forgivewhat I have made.::کوشیدم فردوس را رقم زنمهمان جا بایستبگذار باد سخن گویدکه فردوس است.بگذار خدایان ببخشایند کردارم را بگذار معشوقگانم کوشند که بخشند کردارم را ------------------------------------------------
I wanted to simultaneously rate this book 1 star and 5 stars.
Though the poem is, at its heart, a narrative about deep personal crisis, it requires too much from its reader.
whatever.) planes, the poem is incredibly oblique.
If you're willing to give up the time (or, in my case, are forced to for class credit), I think the poem can be incredibly rewarding.
Struggling with Pound's audience, his anti-semitism, his language of crisis, etc.
But, in the end, Pound's goals for poetry are quite different than my own.
I can appreciate this poem, but I will never like it.
Would like to give two extra stars, if possible, for reading Sam Schild's used copy, which is filled with good notes and has many of the ideograms filled out to resemble funny faces in hats.
Montage, Collage, ein halbes Dutzend Kultursprachen, freies Versmaß und ein verstörendes Sammelsurium an Allusionen und Intertextualität. Schwierig zu folgen, keine leichte Kost, aber ergreifend.
ATTN: Lieutenant Colonel John L. Steele7103rd Disciplinary Training CompanyUnited States Army, Metato, ItalyJune 15, 1945Re: Ezra Weston Loomis Pound After a thorough examination of Ezra Weston Loomis Pound’s mental state, it is my professional opinion that while the patient displays “no paranoia, delusions nor hallucinations” and there is “no evidence of psychosis, neurosis or psychopathy,” his “prolonged exposure in present environment may precipitate a mental breakdown, of which premonitory s
He also seems to recognize that he is suffering tremendous psychological stress when he writes “States of mind are inexplicable to us” (38) but then follows, in ancient Greek, with “dakruon” (tears, or weeping) repeated three times as if he is painfully aware how his present psychological state is affecting him emotionally.
Second, the patient is a highly empathetic individual as evidenced in these Cantos with astute observations of idiomatic speech, such as his mimicry of the black prisoners, one of which he transcribes as saying “Hey Snag, what’s in the bibl’ ?
Indimenticabile è la seconda parte del Canto LXXXI: Quello che veramente ami rimane, / il resto è scorie / Quello che veramente ami non ti sarà strappato / Quello che veramente ami è la tua vera eredità.Quello di Pound era uno spirito tormentato e i Cantos possono essere visti anche come il tentativo di ricomposizione di un'anima, lacerata, ferita e ridotta in frammenti che si sono sparsi ovunque.
I suoi carcerieri gli permisero di portare con sé un libro di Confucio e un dizionario cinese.Fu in quelle condizioni disumane, appeso in una gabbia all'aperto, con qualche coperta per proteggersi dal sole e dalle intemperie che Pound scrisse i "Canti pisani".
These notes were not flagged in the poem--so I missed them for the first 600 lines or so and had to be looking back and forth constantly to make sure I didn't miss one, instead of receiving an indication in the poem that here would be a good place to go to the notes, which would have interrupted my reading experience much less.
I found the poems completely unintelligible until I went back and read the introduction. Lots of the Cantos were about Ezra's experiences in prison and his life philosophy, which drew from all sorts of languages, religions and Eastern philosophy. His escape from death for treason was more interesting than some of the poems - which are all hard to read, and lots didn't make any sense since I know only English. Overall: 3/5 stars. Not sure why I loved his poetry so much in highschool.
Canti PisaniQuello che veramente ami rimane,il resto è scorieQuello che veramente ami non ti sarà st
Since I've been reading T.S. Eliot lately, Pound has been on my mind also. I read The Pisan Cantos (I think) a year ago, and three stars is still about right. Pound, unlike Eliot, uses his learning and personal experience in such a way that, if you don't know what he knows or know what's happened to him, you're pretty much lost. Being lost, of course, can be beautiful; it can also be a pain in the butt if you want to get somewhere. Pound, as the rating suggests, is both beautiful and a pain in the butt.
This was one of those school assignment books-only read it cause I had to and couldn't even make it past the first few pages. The class was English Literary History Emergence of Modernism. If my professor hadn't explained the back story of Ezra Pound-his imprisonment in the camp which lead to his going insane, his close relationships with other modernist writers (TS Eliot, Gertrude Stein) and his love of communism and buddism-I wouldn't have understood a single word of The Pisan Cantos. Oh wait, I still don't.
Composed while held in a cage by American GI’s for his support of Mussolini, this compilation represents some of the most incredible and incomprehensible Imagist poetry ever. Slipping effortlessly between English, Chinese, Greek, German, French, Spanish, and often Italian, Pound paints a surrealist, allusion-infested psychedelic view of the world. Hey Snag, wot are the books ov the bibl’?
Not a review, but just a note that the intro essay is indispensable, end notes are illuminating, and the cover photo is of the exposed outdoor cell where Pound was...impounded for a few weeks, during which tome he began these poems. Also, he writes about one of his fellow prisoners being hanged at one point, and it's the father of Emmett Till....
Stupefyingly infuriating, but brilliant, demented poetry that's so obscurely allusive it may as well be written in another language - oh! and most of it is. Cheers, Ezra - we'll all pop off and learn Chinese shall we?
I knew I'd never really liked Pound, but when i searched my thousands of books to find The Cantos, I found only a paltry dog-eared Selected Cantos, 119 pages. $1.95 when I bought it. think I'll spring for this new edition and start off with what's in the Selected.
Beautiful poetry of exile that teaches you how to read it as you go along.
special because he wrote them in outdoor prison container in Italy. They won the one (and only) Bollinger Prize. The notes, as an appendix, are very valuable. Tom
It helps to know French, Italian, and Chinese characters. Just go with it, for it will take you places. Sardonic and dryly pessimistic at times, with crescendos and overflowing lyricism at others.
EW.Miserable. I respect Pound's art, but he is one of the only modernists whose work I find impossible to connect with in some way, shape, or form.
Ω - I read the second edition published in 1948. The edition with notes & commentary would've been preferable.
Quattro canti, al quinto mi sono detto che (per me) poteva anche bastare così.
yesss
