https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23299513-the-shadow-queen
LOVED this book! Such a phenomenal retelling of Snow White!
This is a book about a girl who should be queen, rounding up her band of outsiders to reclaim her stolen kingdom with some magical help.
Maybe I’m mistaken, but it sounds like the plot of about 80% of YA fantasy novels.I read 5 chapters of The Shadow Queen before going to sleep the other night and I woke up the next day and couldn’t remember what book I was in.
It’s like the author set out with an agenda - the intention of delivering every trope that’s been a proved seller in the past.Generic heroine wants to reclaim kingdom...
check.Generic band of friends assisting her in reclaiming kingdom...
Irina’s smile disappeared. “I don’t require all of the princess, huntsman.”A chill raced over Kol’s skin. “I don’t understand. Our oath said—”She leaned forward, her eyes pinning Kol where he stood. “You agreed to do whatever I asked of you. And I am asking you to bring me the princess’s heart.” I feel like this book wants to be a mixture of Snow White and the Huntsman and the Grisha series and failed spectacularly at both, not least because it was so jaw-achingly dull. You've got your terrifyi
Our oath said—”She leaned forward, her eyes pinning Kol where he stood.
Commence eye-rolling.This book is generic and boring, there's no denying it.
She had a smudge of dirt on one pale cheek, and her long dark curls were tangled from her sprint through the village, but even so, she was beautiful in a way that made Kol want to keep looking.
She had a smudge of dirt on one pale cheek, and her long dark curls were tangled from her sprint through the village, but even so, she was beautiful in a way that made Kol want to keep looking.
I guess I could finish reading this one, it's not like it would be a pain in the ass to do so, but I choose not to. I choose not to because I just know it's not going to deserve more than two stars in the end, and I don't have time to waste, sadly. I wish I did, but time is precious when you're in college. This story is not serious enough for me. There's an illusion of seriousness, but I saw right through it.Also, what kind of person would name their pet bird SASHA?
And it wasn't until I started reading the book that I realized it had a few things in common with the story of Snow White - those things are poisoned apples, an evil queen, and a huntsman - otherwise, it's it own story.I really loved the characters - especially the main protagonist, Lorelai and her brother Leo. They're on the run from the evil queen who is a powerful magician.
Here's my quote for the cover: "With poison, fire, and deadly deeds, this tale is hard to put down and even harder to forget.
❝A warrior doesn’t focus on the odds stacked against her. She focuses on her heart, on her will to face the evil in her world and defeat it, and then she finds a way to do it.❞ Buddy read with my favorite, sreeja. Thanks for dealing with my paragraphs and ranting and all caps messages where I was reacting to whatever was happening including shocks and cringes. I've said this before and I'll say it again: I've never really liked retellings. Going into this book, I knew I wouldn't be the biggest
Lorelai is fierce, quick and beautiful to Kol, and he has dark magic that she wants to get drawn into even though he is a troubled king.
But maybe Irina planned this thing this whole time, and maybe she's planning to take something away from Lorelai again, maybe even the one thing she fears of losing.The Shadow Queen is one of the most boring retellings I have ever read.
He was the reason why I started accepting Lorelai for who she was, and I thank him because he was actually able to deal with her this whole time.
I always really love fairy tale retellings and the cover is beautiful, so color me intrigued.The book begins with a “once upon a time” backstory that very quickly explains how the evil Queen Irina came to rule Ravenspire by killing the king and how Princess Lorelai became a fugitive at large.
He plans to make a deal with Queen Irina asking her to use her magic to defeat the ogres.
She wants Kol to find Lorelai and bring her to the queen.There is a whole lot more to the plot, but that is pretty much the basis to the story.
Thank Gosh I read this!!! I LOVE the characters so much!!! The Plot might get 4 stars, but the main couple and their relatioship definitely get 5 stars from me!!! So this book got my 4.5 adorable stars!!!! \(^^D)/No review for awhile, guys. I want to read first! LOL! Whatever if you love fairy-tale retelling, just go and read it! Gosh I love Kol and Lorelai so much, Did I just say again that I love them?
I loved the concepts and the world, and it reminded me a lot of the show Once Upon a Time and Snow White and The Huntsman, but I felt really indifferent towards the main character, Lorelai.I simply did not particularly like or care for her.
I loved Kol as a character and I loved the dragon concepts that were in The Shadow Queen, but the romance in this book made me shudder.
The Shadow Queen didn't really leave a lasting impression on me and it definitely didn't land on list of top retellings.I'm a huge fan of everything Disney and retellings and I can see people liking this book, but this one just didn't work out for me.
Review tk.HarperCollins is trying to take over the world by publishing all the books with the title 'The (random word) Queen'
Reviewed by: Rabid ReadsDNF at 15%.After a prologue that with few exceptions felt like it could've been copied from the Snow and Regina plot thread from  Once Upon A Time  (the early version, before things got complicated with back stories), the first chapter began in what felt like the opening sequence of every bad horror movie ever.Then came a series of stock characters, and, really . . . making a race of dragons flat is an accomplishment that no author should ever attempt to replicate. Booooo
Reviewed by: Rabid ReadsDNF at 15%.After a prologue that with few exceptions felt like it could've been copied from the Snow and Regina plot thread from 
  Once Upon A Time
 (the early version, before things got complicated with back stories), the first chapter began in what felt like the opening sequence of every bad horror movie ever.Then came a series of stock characters, and, really . . . making a race of dragons flat is an accomplishment that no author should ever attempt to replicate. Booooooo.And so, disappointed and bored, I quit.
I thoroughly enjoyed this retelling of Snow White, enhanced with dragons (dragons are always an improvement.)
To do that, Kol needs magic—and the only way to get it is to make a deal with the queen of Ravenspire, promise to become her personal huntsman…and bring her Lorelai’s heart.But Lorelai is nothing like Kol expected—beautiful, fierce, and unstoppable—and despite dark magic, Lorelai is drawn in by the passionate and troubled king.
I breezed through it so quickly - the pages could not turn fast enough for me!Lorelai and her younger brother Leo have been hiding from Queen Irina, who killed their father nine years ago, and took the Ravenspire throne.
I love how she never gave up on Kol, despite Irina's control over him.The story is very engaging, and I read the book in no time!
“You don't go into battle because you're sure of victory. You go into battle because it's the right thing to do.”  going into this book was kind of like going into battle mostly because the start was so boring(it did redeem itself in the end but still)The Shadow Queen: 3 starsbuddy reading with my favourite: maggie believe me without you to rant to or laugh with, I would have left this book halfwaySadly, this is one of those books where things only start to get more interesting in the last few
going into this book was kind of like going into battle mostly because the start was so boring(it did redeem itself in the end but still)The Shadow Queen: 3 starsbuddy reading with my favourite: maggie believe me without you to rant to or laugh with, I would have left this book halfwaySadly, this is one of those books where things only start to get more interesting in the last few chapters.
I managed to like Lorelai a lot more when she started to accept Kol for who he was and was more accepting of him.The queen, Irina was definitely more interesting as a character than I had expected her to be.
I remember loving Defiance by C.J. Redwine, even though to this day I still haven't picked up its sequels. And The Shadow Queen's awesome synopsis and its availability on Edelweiss instantly made me want to devour each and every word of it. So I did. Sadly, this resulted in my second ever 1-star rating.  This novel, this author, this story -- they all tried. And they failed miserably because they tried too much. Starting with the world, there are so many elements stuffed together in the hope of
And The Shadow Queen's awesome synopsis and its availability on Edelweiss instantly made me want to devour each and every word of it.
However, don't mistake this for lack of action -- there were magic fights until the very end, but nothing bloody, nothing even remotely scary or adrenaline pumping to make me feel like things were about to get rough.
The Shadow Queen was an all you can eat buffet that served a Snow White retelling with tiring writing, flat characters and equally boring plot.
Who knows, maybe the author wants to retell other tales like in TLC.
I mean ... obviously I'm pretty biased here, but I love this story. :) It was so much fun to write!
As far as retellings of Snow White go, this is by far my least favorite.
Not only was the writing style bland, but get this, the world building, character development, AND the plot were 1) extremely under developed.
If so, The Shadow Queen was almost the EXACT same thing only it tried to combine itself with many similarities to the Grisha trilogy.
(Except Lorelai's brother but yeah.)  While retellings are supposed to be familiar/similar, they have to have their own originality to them that WORKS.
And while shape shifting dragons is an intriguing element, it wasn't executed well.
I loved CJ's Defiance series,so I couldn't wait to get my hands on the book.
I adored Lorelai and Kol. They're awesome separate, but amazing together and their predicament makes things interesting.
The cast of characters is relatively small and it was fantastic to have a fantasy story without eleventy billion names that all look the same.
Each character is important and I can't even talk about the awesomeness that is Lorelai's bird, Sasha, or brother, Leo. The plot was intriguing and the ending is perfect.
For the entire book I was in that crazy space of wanting to hurry and wanting to savor.
I can't wait to see if there's more.
A dark and twisted retelling of the classic Snow White. While there have been many retellings, I was super super pleased to see that CJ Redwine's rendition is probably the most unique I've ever read! I absolutely loved her idea of "The Huntsman", and the evil queen is truly twisted in this one. Fun, plot twists and turns, and unique voices for each POV make this one a pleasant fantasy read. Fans of her previous DEFIANCE series will love THE SHADOW QUEEN, especially with such a strong female lead like Lorelei.
Well, I originally really wanted to read this, but I've had to since cancel my preorder...
Plot ~ Concept: ★★★★☆ ~ Execution: ★☆☆☆☆Pacing: ★★☆☆☆Writing style: ★★☆☆☆Characters: ★★☆☆☆World: ★★☆☆☆Enjoyment: ★☆☆☆☆Cover: ★★☆☆☆Pros: ○ The book started out strong, and there were certain elements that presented an intriguing take on the original tale of Snow White.○ The Prologue was also intriguing.○ Leo was a typical goofy, annoying younger sibling and I adored his banter with Lorelei. (view spoiler)[Too bad he was killed within the first 100 pages (hide spoiler)]○The fact that dragons and o
Plot ~ Concept: ★★★★☆ ~ Execution: ★☆☆☆☆½Pacing: ★★☆☆☆Writing style: ★★☆☆☆Characters: ★★☆☆☆World: ★★☆☆☆½Enjoyment: ★☆☆☆☆½Cover: ★★☆☆☆Pros: ○ The book started out strong, and there were certain elements that presented an intriguing take on the original tale of Snow White.○ The Prologue was also intriguing.○ Leo was a typical goofy, annoying younger sibling and I adored his banter with Lorelei.
○ I wish that Irania’s motivations and obsession with a certain element were delved into further and were more deep-rooted.○ The author tried to make Irina, the antagonist, appear vulnerable and multi-dimensional, but all she came across as was underwhelming, and I failed to sympathise with her.
○ The fact that (view spoiler)[LEO —the only good thing about the book— WAS KILLED.
In the beginning of the book it tells how the evil Queen Irina kills Princess Lorelai's father and she is forced out of her kingdom Ravenspire with her brother Leo and a guard named Gabril.
Meanwhile, Lorelai, Gabril and Leo are like the Robin Hood's around the land, they steel from the queen and such and get food to the people that are starving.
Kol has to come over to Ravenspire to try to ask Queen Irina for help.
Lorelai also became friends with the dragons and helped them, she also kept fighting to save Kol. She ended up in a bond where they were inside each others heads too.
2.5 stars(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to HarperCollins and Edelweiss.)  “You need to trust that I know what I’m doing.” Her voice was firm. “If you can’t trust me in this, how can you trust me to face Irina or rule an entire kingdom?”  There wasn’t anything horribly wrong with this book, I just didn’t enjoy it.I felt quite sorry for both Kol and Lorelai in this story, both were put in difficult positions, and both had to try and make
There wasn’t anything horribly wrong with this book, I just didn’t enjoy it.I felt quite sorry for both Kol and Lorelai in this story, both were put in difficult positions, and both had to try and make hard decisions for the good of their people.The storyline in this was about Lorelai trying to find a way to defeat the evil queen and take her kingdom back, and about Kol trying to save his own people by asking the evil queen for help.
I just found the story to be really slow though, and for me it dragged and dragged.
Prince Kol can turn into an actual dragon (which was by far the coolest part).
Kol turns to the evil queen in Lorelai's kingdom for help and ends up becoming the huntsman.
The story we get just seemed like more of a jumbled checklist than any engaging plot arc.
The only character I could get a super strong sense of was Kol, so I kind of wish the story could've dropped the Snow White retelling and stayed in his kingdom.
BUT I still liked a lot of the scenes and had fun with the book!
Official comments: Magic, dragons, and royalty in hiding: THE SHADOW QUEEN hits all the right notes of an incredible epic fantasy.
With charming characters, smart prose, and seamless worldbuilding, C.J. Redwine's fantastic retelling of Snow White is sure to cast a spell of wonder.
Unofficial comments: The DEFIANCE Trilogy is one of my all time favorites, and THE SHADOW QUEEN is right up there with it.
The story is beautiful.
And the worldbuilding is spot on.
This book is so CJ that it seemed like my friend was telling me the story over a big plate of cookies and lemon bars.
Once I found out Scholastic would be publishing The Shadow Queen over here, I immediately requested a copy, and was so grateful to be approved - thanks, Scholastic!The Shadow Queen told the story of Lorelai, the crown princess to Ravenspire, who has been on the run from her evil stepmother, since her father was killed.
When Kol and Lorelai meet, there's a distinct connection, made worse when Irina realises this, and uses it to her advantage.
I honestly adored reading from Lorelai's point of view, and she grew in strength as every chapter progressed.
I've never read any of C.J.'s books before, but I think I definitely will now.
DNF at 50% DISCLAIMER: I normally don't do disclaimers but this time, I'd really like to warn those who liked the book to just stop reading further. I'm currently super pissed off and I'm not going to be polite about this.  “Hair like sunshine, eyes like the midday sky, and pale skin that glowed against her delicate bones—it seemed impossible that someone so dainty and pretty could have used her magic to force an old woman to choke on apples all day long.” Because, as everyone knows, beautiful p
Again, see the quotes down below and you can pretty much get a good idea of what you have to deal with.
The evil bitch queen simply doesn’t care if - see quote below - there’s anyone left to rule over and lets her people starve.
These two gems had me completely fooled for a good minute, during which I was trying to remember what kind of book I was reading.
You want to tell me that his father - supposedly a good king with a lot of years of experience - his advisors and his much more talented brother did not arrive to this conclusion, whereas our failure of a prince immediately grasps the situation.
Wow este libro men. Tiene sus cositas raras, el principio cuesta un poco, pero luego los idas y vueltas del argumento me volaron la cabeza. Irina es una villana nivel Levana.Si te gustan los retellings, no te lo podes perder.Reseña completa en Gracias a los Libros.
It seemed a classic case of telling not showing and I worried for my enjoyment during the rest of the book if this unemotional start was anything to judge this by.Thankfully this did pick up, although I was still not fully invested.
The plot was both an intriguing continuation of the Snow White fairy tale, used as its basis, as well as cleverly incorporating iconic imagery and scenes that heightened my enjoyment and had me puzzling to solve its many mysteries.
As the novel progressed the action was heightened and I was entirely glued to the last half of this book.
THE REVIEWWhy this book?This seemed like a book for meWhat I thoughtI enjoyed the author’s twist on the Snow White retelling. I also really liked the characters especially Kol I have a soft spot for dragon shape shifters. There's also not alot of characters so each one is important to the story. There's a bit of romance,plenty of action and some great banter. I loved the whole fairytale feel of this book with kings , queens, princesses, princes, dragons and Ogres etc. It made a great fantasy book.With plenty twists an turns I absolutely loved this and highly recommend it!
