https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18050143-zero-to-one
Having worked with Peter - and the PayPal mafia more generally - for almost 10 years now, I have a unique perspective on Zero to One. Indeed, a lot of the ideas contained within are familiar to me.
The launching point for the book is Peter's stock interview question - a question he asked me 8 years ago.'What is something you think is true, but that most people disagree with you on?'My answer at the time (2006) was: 'There is a bubble in housing.' Of course, that was cheating, since I knew this was a pet idea of Peter's.
It is indeed hard to imagine a new business to threaten the dominance of Google Search or Facebook's social network.
So it is not the case that "every moment in business" happens only once, unless in a very literal sense.Peter discusses "copying" with disdain, but not all "copying" is just copying, a lot of progress happens via semi-continuous improvements.
And these improvements occasionally lead to enabling zero-to-one (or dominating) developments.Peter asks "What company is nobody building?" Like the previous quote, this question has some charm, but I think it too is misleading.
Pros:* Great chapters on how to build a monopoly, approach markets, luck, hiring, culture, and sales.* lots of contrarian views that will force you to reconsider your own ideas* Interesting outlook on the future of technology and humanity* Clear writingCons:* The ideas of vertical vs horizontal progress is nonsense.
This voice of doubt can dissuade people from even starting to look for secrets in a world that seems too big a place for any individual to contribute something unique.The best entrepreneurs know this: every great business is built around a secret that’s hidden from the outside.
- Current tech companies focus on too much 1) incremental advances 2) have no idea where there business will go or what they will be doing 3) forego creating new markets and instead attempt to gain more ground in overcrowded markets 4) ignore sales completely- The opposite is important 1) risk boldness 2) have a framework of where you'd like to take your company 3) search for new markets 4) sales matter as does product design not more thoughCh. 3 All Happy Companies are Different- Ask yourself what valuable company is nobody building.- Create value and then capture that value- Choose to become a monopoly as competitive markets strip your profits away.
Usually economists talk about some extent of monopoly power (e.g. patents) encourages innovation, but Thiel was looking at it from another perspective: that of an entrepreneur choosing which type of business to start.
(Stuff on the size of the board, stock as incentives etc.) You are not only trying to create new things at the founding stage of a startup; if you are successful, you should have created a business that stays creative.Chapter 10: The company doesn't attract employees (or create a "culture") by providing benefits like free food, free laundry etc.
Interesante. Instructivo. Me ha gustado salir de mi zona de confort y embarcarme en esta aventura.
Starts well, becomes trite, ends delusional.
Since the book challenges many of the lessons of "libertarianism" (on the right) and "social justice/rights" advocates (on the left), I would like the book to address some of the great works in both of these genres -- James Scott's "Seeing Like a State" which argues against large-scale state planning; "The Tyranny of Experts" written by William Easterly, which has interesting ideas about when not to use expert advice; Nassim Nicholas Taleb's "Black Swan" which makes the best case for "optionality" and small-scale tinkering.
I'm sorry. I don't know why all the rave. This book is full of pontification and cliche. And sometimes shameless ones. Not to mention the every now and then judgmental categorical commentaries. I had to return the audio book half way thru. Total lack of nutrition.
In fact, I couldn't help but start out reading this book in that character's voice.Mr. Thiel starts right out by revealing his main interview question: "What important truth do very few people agree with you on?" Despite ending with a preposition, this is such a good interview question that I'm pretty sure I wouldn't be able to joke my way out of it.
I kind of dismissed Peter Thiel as an idiot after his very public support of President Trump, but that was a mistake.The premise of Zero to One is enlightening.
We always think of business in terms of cut-throat competition.
But Thiel makes a very convincing argument that most successful businesses avoid competition whenever possible.
Thiel has a voice that's a strange mix of robotically authoritative yet somehow poetic.
The way he weaves analogies and images together to make a point is incredibly artistic.I'll never be able to understand why he decided to support President Trump, but I'm convinced of one thing: Peter Thiel is a genius.
التقدم الافقي هو تقليد الدول المتقدمة وهذا ما يسمى بالعولمة اما التقدم الراسي هو التقدم التكنولوجي وهو يعتمد على الشركات الناشئة لانها قادرة على الابتكار و الاختراع.
الشركة الناجحة هي التي تستطيع احتكار السوق بمنتوج جديد و هذا يسمح لها بتحديد الاسعار التي تريد وجمع ارباح تمكنها من تطوير منتوجها باستمرار عكس الشركات التي تعتمد على التقليد لانها مضطرة دائما لخفض الاسعار من اجل الصمود في وجه المنافسة.
ثم تطرق الكاتب لمواصفات الشركة الاحتكارية تميز المنتوج توقيت المشروع الاحتكار فريق العمل المناسب التوزيع الاستمرارية السر.......
Some assorted thoughts:(1) In the very beginning of the book, Thiel shares his answer to the central question: "What important truth do few people agree with you on?" (and the corollary: What valuable company is no one building?).
This was one instance that recurred a few times throughout of Thiel seemingly viewing the world as more binary than it is, ignoring questions like "Could increased globalization lead to technical advancement?".(2) Thiel frequently references the characteristics of "great companies" and the importance of resilience and creating value in a crowded world (and more importantly, capturing that value).
I hate this book and I suspect that the feeling is mutual.Zero to One is a bunch of thoughts about entrepreneurs and startups by Peter Thiel, co-founder of Pay Pal. The book doesn't have a central thesis or framework like many other business advice books.
Thiel doesn't have the desire to research outside of his own world and so just makes proclamations that support his thesis at the moment.Another example of Thiel just saying something to make it true: "This is why physics PhDs are notoriously difficult to work with --because they know the most fundamental truths, they think they know all the truths." (pg 104).
The research shows that disruptive innovation typically comes from new start companies and they tend to dominate a new market niche until they grow dramatically or are acquired.
So I agree with Peter Thiel, that new start businesses need to consider an order of magnitude value step change over existing solutions, to succeed, which is the zero to one transformation.
I believe we need to start with a vision of what a successful business would look like, and we need to see that it will be significantly different (10x) from existing competitive solutions.
Peter Thiel's book is definitely worthwhile reading.He has some fantastic points about start-ups, working environments for new and small businesses and a strong level of conviction for his methodology and beliefs which is nice to read.That being said, he's self indulgent in parts of this book - perhaps his choice as a self-made billionaire (I don't know) - and more importantly he spends a lot of time focusing on all the great achievements of his inner circle. There is in fact life beyond silicon valley.Read it, but don't glorify it.
Lately Thiel has been in the news and one would expect, based on a cursory examination of his backstory and current infamy, a work of diabolical genius or at the very least one with a bit of an edge. That said, the most surprising part of the book is its extreme banality.
3.5 stars. An interesting read with some interesting and thought-provoking insights for tech startups and some not so that just come across as opinionated commentary.
From the ideal size of a startup's board of directors to the future of humanity, Thiel holds very little back and mostly manages to tie all this theory together into a practical, coherent worldview.The biggest theme in the book, as the title aptly suggests, is that ambitious people should strive to create new things in the world that have the potential to move humanity forward by an order of magnitude.
Examples of going from n-1 to n include the myriad of cleantech companies started in the past several years, as well as restaurants, consultancies, and law firms.Thiel uses recent history to persuasively argue that the world (and especially the USA) is stuck in a cycle of n-1 to n thinking which is based on its particular outlook on the future.
I think it's worth reading of you're interested in starting and funding businesses, especially since it's such a quick read. I found PT's thoughts on and defense of monopolies particularly interesting. But I was disappointed by the strength of his argumentation. I expected this book to read like the work of a sharp, keen thinker, but his reasoning throughout the book is actually very sloppy and relies very heavily on cherry picked examples.

Симпатична брошурка, но нищо повече.
If you are copying these guys, you aren’t learning from them.”Peter ― Thiel, Zero to One: Notes on Startups, or How to Build the Future It is always a useful experience to read the thoughts of a successful entrepreneur and mentor.
Europeans just react to events as they happen and hope things don't get worse.
All he can do is wait for it to happen, so he might as well eat, drink, and be merry in the meantime: hence Europe's famous vacation mania.""Sometimes you do have to fight.
His seven factors of startup success make sense in a necessary but not sufficient kind of way, and facetiousness aside, the book goes beyond just having a wildly successful guy tell us we only need to be right all the time, at all the right times.That said, there's a glibness in Thiel's delivery that detracted from the book's effectiveness for me.
Thiel also makes more casual bomb references than I'd prefer (one being designed by a Paypal developer desperate to wipe out competition from Elon Musk - but don't worry, cooler heads prevailed).
This book had nothing insightful or unique to offer. I found myself nodding in common sense to many of the points. It reads like college notes (what it is based on) but I would've asked for my 3 credits back. Skip it!
Clever question.This book is a collection of Silicon Valley business wisdom for the startup world, based on a course that he taught at Stanford in 2012.
Hey, it's Silicon Valley, what else can he say?* Seek to dominate a small market in the early phase of your startup's life.* If you mess up the foundation of your company -- key officers, core technology, company culture -- it will be hard to recover.
Reading Mr. Thiel's story of building PayPal won't make someone a next game changer, but his notes on startups and tech industry in general are good insights to a market generating great amount of wealth to its participants (just think about simple example of profit margin comparison between Google and U.S. airline companies: in 2012, Google made revenue of $50 billion (versus $160 billion for the airlines) of which 21% was a profit-more than hundred times the airline industry's profit margin.
Mr. Thiel explains how these companies failed to answer important questions regarding engineering, timing, distribution, people etc.
Компании, не занимающие монопольного положения на рынке, предпочитают другой сорт лжи, заявляя: «Мы стоим особняком от всех!» Предприниматели всегда склонны занижать уровень конкуренции — но для стартапа эта ошибка может стать фатальной.
Предположим, вы хотите открыть в Пало-Альто ресторан британской кухни.
— Мы захватим рынок целиком!» Но это будет правдой, лишь если речь идет о конкретной узкой нише британской кухни.
Будет лучше, если вы перестанете суетиться и поразмышляете над тем, найдутся ли в Пало-Альто клиенты, предпочитающие британскую кухню любой другой.
Выбирая ресторан, мы сначала решали принципиальный вопрос: хотим ли мы поесть индийских блюд или суши, а может, бургеров?
Что предпочесть — кухню северной или южной Индии?
I recently finished Antifragile by Nassim Taleb, which I also recommend, and this book is a little similar in a sense of being contrarian and distrusting status quo-driven establishments, such as the government, banking and educational systems.
But this book is also the opposite of Antifragile in a sense that it proposes that human development is driven by technological progress.
Instead, he proposes to start companies that will become technological monopolies in their spaces by providing products that are at least 10x better than anything else.An absolute must read for everyone.
Дуже хороша книжка. Цікавий погляд на речі. Треба думати глобально і задавати собі правильні запитання.
