https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16256.More_Tales_of_the_City
A surreal sequel to the first volume of the series, More Tales of the City heightens the stakes of the original: mystery, romance, and drama now feature even more prominently in the intertwining storylines of the residents of 28 Barbary Lane.
Maupin established his characters' personalities and their relationship to each other in Tales of the City, and he here has fun placing them in increasingly absurd and convoluted scenarios, be it a brush with a near fatal illness or the revelation of hidden parentage.
The sheer amount of chaos makes the second entry of the series read as at once more thrilling and more tedious than the first.
Armistead Maupin is one of the best summer read writers.
His Tales of the City trilogy is part sitcom, part kitsch, melodramatic and historic, irreverent and yet o-so dated, & damn if you cannot recognize his influence in groundbreaking TV, like "Sex and the City" and "Will & Grace".
Things are explained, expanded, & the 4 or so separate strands of character destinies intertwine and repel each other at intervals that make the reader anticipate each and every episode.
is made more clear, as is why Mrs. Anna Madrigal was my favorite character from the last installment in the first place.
The story and characters continue to be quirky and charming, but Maupin wears his love for melodrama on his...typewriter ribbon sometimes: amnesia as narrative device, a life-threatening illness, a nasty side plot about someone hired to assault a pregnant woman.
I was ready to finish this book.As far as the cast of characters go: Mary Ann’s new boyfriend was bland and the amnesia mystery never really gelled, it just got sillier only to find that the cause was (view spoiler)[an Episcopalian cannibal cult.
(hide spoiler)] The best stories involve Michael, who finds love, and Mona, who makes some important discoveries about her family tree (probably not that surprising discoveries if you read the first book.)
I didn’t realize how much I had missed Mrs. Madrigal, Mary Ann Singleton, Mona Ramsey, and Michael “Mouse” Tolliver until I began More Tales of the City, Armistead Maupin’s sequel to his spectacular Tales of the City.
(Other books had gotten in the way.)In the sequel, Mary Ann finally meets the man of her dreams — although he has nightmares of his own.
And through a serendipitous encounter in the Nevada desert, Mona finds out more about Mrs. Madrigal — and herself — than she ever wanted to know.
What comes across is the fact that these characters love each other and the reader loves them in turn, becoming a vicarious member of the Barbary Lane family.What really affected me when I first read these books, as a recently "out" Gay man, was the depiction and template they gave for Gay/Straight relationships.
After reading the "Tales" books, I could see that this was just Barbary Lane in action in the real world; a world where prejudice didn't exist and where two people of the same sex sharing a bed, was as natural and uncomplicated as seeing your Mum and Dad in bed together, when you were a kid and took them breakfast in bed on Mother's Day.That is what is so endearing about these books; the innocence!
I read about 250 pages this afternoon after a got off work, bringing me to the end of the book.
If you read from the Tales of the City series, his characters will become your friends.
And, like me, you'll be glad he's written several books featuring them.
I can't wait to read the next.With the first one, I felt intrigue took a back seat to plain old human interest.
Which I like.
While the mysterious element is heavy, the base of the book is still the characters, and that includes the city.Further Tales, here I come!

And I also understand that the series was first published in a newspaper, bit by bit, so the reader back then experienced the whole thing slowly and not in the face, like I did.Forgetting this, my listening was a sheer delight.What slightly bothered me, though, was the racist language some of the characters used.
I understand that this book was written a couple of decades ago, but still.
You know.Overall, I loooooved this book and now consider myself a fan of the series too.
Many of the characters are dear to my heart and I want to listen to a whole thing non-stop.Michael and Mona!Michael and Mona!And Anna.
Audible A soap opera with a high addiction potential. I've never thought that a novel about MANY different people who continuously bump into each other - it is a small world, my friends - could be so entertaining. But it looks like I can't have enough of Armistead Maupin's crazy creative fantasy. .
Si tratta di libri ambientati nella San Francisco dello stesso periodo, in cui l'azione ruota intorno agli abitanti del condominio al 28 di Barbary Lane, la cui proprietaria è l'eccentrica Mrs. Madrigal (coltivatrice di marijuana che tratta i suoi affittuari più come figli, e se pensate che questo sia eccentrico, aspettate di leggere il libro) e parzialmente anche dei proprietari/dipendenti della Halcyon Communications, un'agenzia pubblicitaria.
Il modo in cui le vite di tutti personaggi sono intrecciate, e spesso si intrecciano ancora di più quasi per caso in una metropoli come San Francisco, mi fa venire in mente i telefilm come Melrose Place anche se l'atmosfera qui è completamente diversa.http://robertabookshelf.blogspot.it/2...
When I was in college, I had a professor who assigned us "Moby Dick", but suggested we only read specific parts of the book by page number.
Those sections, he assured us, would give us the chance to focus on the characters and the narrative and skip some of the less essential parts.
I wish someone had given me a similar guide to "More Tales of the City", as there's entire parts of it -- including the bizarrely rushed ending -- that I wish I could have skipped.As in the first "Tales of the City", it's the character development, interaction, and dialogue that grab me.
I wound up, surprisingly given that I got off to a slow start with it, even more than the last one. I liked how Maupin ties together all the various plot lines and loose ends. This was also a lovely book to finish on Mother's Day as it talks a lot about the relationships between parents and children and what makes a family. Michael's coming out letter to his Mom and Dad was particularly touching.
When my friend gave me this book, we had no idea that it was actually the second one of a series. It took me some chapter to get to understand fully each character but I found every one of them so touching. Mouse was my favorite, so funny and honest and a truly good friend to Mary Ann.The plot was also very catchy and interesting, I really enjoyed this book. And the end... BREATH TAKING
More madcap adventures from the gang at 28 Barbary Lane. The first third of the book starts out a bit slowly but redeems itself after that. Many interesting revelations and plot twists and a few unanswered story lines.
Refreshingly free of any literary aspirations, these short stories are perfect for bedtime, perfect for a quick break during a hectic day, or perfect for an entire afternoon. As the 1970's Disco Decade closes and Maupin takes us into the 80s, days darken in Frisco. Still, memory lane beckons us on.
Slightly more macabre than the first one in places but still utterly fabulous. I *need* to read the rest of this wonderful series.
Der zweite Band der Stadtgeschichten setzt zeitlich nur wenige Wochen nach Band eins ein. Die Protagonisten bleiben die selben. Es kommen zwei, drei neue Figuren hinzu, aber zugleich verabschieden sich auch welche aus der Handlung.Maupin greift viele Handlungsfäden auf und spinnt sie weiter. Zugleich enthüllt er Geheimnisse und macht Andeutungen, die den Leser automatisch zwingen, gleich zum dritten Band zu greifen.
The characters are just the best and that's why I keep lovin' it. The beginning felt somewhat forced and not flowing at all. It took me a while to get into the story. There was alot of that "Previously on Tales of the City".The ending made up for all of it, it was excellent. I think I'm getting the knack for these, you need to have a certain kind of twisted sense of humour and a twinkle in your eye to appreciate these.I think I want another one!
This second book of the series is better than the first. More than once I had to say to myself, "I didn't see that coming." This is a delightful, wonderful and satisfying read, I highly recommend it.
Mrs. Madrigal, Mona, Brian, Michael and Mary Ann are like old friends. I love reading of their escapades.
Holy moly this book ended extremely strangely. This sequel very much reads like a series of short newspaper columns meant for high drama and less reliance on plot.
Und damit nicht genug, Monas Vermieterin Anna Madrigal ist auch noch der mit 16 entlaufene Sohn von Mama Mucca, der sich seit der Flucht aus seiner Ehe mit Monas Mutter Betty einer Geschlechtsumwandlung unterzogen hat.
Die Versatzstücke der Handlung um eine Kannibalensekte, die ihr Abendmahl gern ein wenig blutiger mag, ist ebenso grotesk zusammengebastelt wie Monas Verwandtschaftsverhältnisse, aber irgendwie funktioniert es, so lange man das Buch liest.Hinterher stellt sich aber doch ein fader Nachgeschmack bei dieser Special-Interest-Lindenstraße ein, die sich Dinge heraus nimmt, die sogar bei absolut vernagelten Mutter-Beimer-Fans kollektive Ängste vor einer Verdummungs-Attacke seitens der Macher der Serie ausgelöst hätte.Wäre es die Lindenstraße, wäre ich mit dieser Serie fertig, bei Gedrucktem fällt mir das Aufhören nicht so leicht, zumal ich ja noch drei Folgen im Haus/Auto habe.
Picking up not long after the end of the previous volume, the story swings into action with gentle reminders of what happened before while moving ahead swiftly into the comic doings of most everyone from before and introducing some new folks.The dark turn of events from before is dealt with in a completely believable manner (well, within the verbal efficiency of the author's style anyway) and the "secret" I had thought too subtle in #1 is fully explained here.
One of the things that makes this particular book interesting is that each chapter is relatively short, so it is quickly read and makes it easy for a reader to find a stopping point when they need to put it down for awhile.
Each chapter was featured as the daily story and because of this the book seems highly dramatic at time because it would be fairly obvious that each article had to keep the reader invested to return to it the next day to read.
As a reader you want to know what the secrets are because Maupin makes you invested in each o the characters.
Maupin must have wanted to write a mystery and decided to put it inside the context of the sequel to Tales of the City.
I think Anna Madrigal is inspiring because we are close in age.
My favorite paragraph is from Anna: "Oh, Mona,we're all damned fools!
Loosen up,dear!
Don't be so afraid to cry...or laugh, for that matter.
Laugh all you want and cry all you want and whistle at pretty men in the street and to hell with anybody who thinks you're a damn fool!" She lifted the wineglass in a toast to the younger woman.
"I love you, dear.
Didn't love it as much as the first one, but then again, the first one came to me under different circumstances.
It still remains a loved book in a loved series of books, however.The characters we know are all still there, some old ones leave, new ones are introduced and life goes on hysterically and unexpectedly and hilariously on 28 Barbary Lane.
The new twists and turns are wonderful and there's always the shock factor included.
This is the second book in a series of books and the lives of the characters go a long way farther.
Disliked first quarter, since it excluded me like many (gay or het) books; then Maupin inserted some moping out of the blue (p.
77 and 119 has Michael long for someone and state the truth that only those not caring about it are never alone) and I remembered that I had liked the end of the first book - he seems to do that in each one, throw in some extreme crime/thriller thing.
Wish I had less other books to read, incl.
five more by him, because now I'd like to read up on how Mary met Mouse.
This one is more of a mystery than the first, but that's not really why you're reading, is it? You keep reading to spend some more time with this campy soap opera. "Wait. Can you repeat that again? What's that about Mrs. Madrigal?" "What happened to Michael?!" Cruise ship. Bordello. Twist. ¡Escandalo! Basically, that's the loop going on in my head as I read these books. Love it!If you liked this, make sure to follow me on Goodreads for more reviews!
This was just as fun to read as the first book in the series, but I rated it even higher because it approached more serious issues of generational homophobia and self-doubt so dang well. Michael Tolliver's letter to his parents and Mary Ann's confession and guilt about her initial anger toward "wasted" homosexual men both had me in tears. And, of course, the sharp wit of all the characters had me cracking up every other page or so.Can't wait to read the next one!
The second set of adventures with the residents of Barbary Lane in San Francisco. This is the last 'fun' book before things start to become definitely more weirder and the eighties start to bring in the more tragic plot elements. Although I love the series, Maupin isn't particularly successful at explaining his own continuity - and by that I mean why certain things happen 'between' books, and you're left feeling that that strains credulity more than the bizarre plot twists.
