https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93244.Airships
Again, that’s back humor as in the short-short story, That’s True when the narrator tells us he will never forget the summer when a man named Lardner from his home state of Louisiana posing as a psychiatrist, complete with thick glasses, mustache and fake gnarled hand, especially fake gnarled hand since patients identify with a shrink who has a physical defect, traveled to New York, set up office in midtown Manhattan with five phony diplomas displayed on the wall and instantly cured the mental ills of his sorry-ass patients.
You wanted me to come in here and discover that you're a nihilist," Levaster said."Nihilists can come their hair." She bit her lip, pouting." from 'Return to Return'I don't know if I like Barry Hannah or not.
I liked the story "Constant Pain in Tuscaloosa" when one of the "niggers" disturbs the guy whose name I have already forgotten (several characters mock his name, though, or the way he holds the position of it.
Working a tedious, repetitious job, I was able to get through one story, snuff out my cigarette, then sit and mull it over for two or three hours without the interruption of additional stimuli or the nagging desire to keep on with a continuous narrative, as happens when I attempt to read plot-driven novels on my breaks.
Oh, and I should point out again that these are Southern stories set over a wide net of time periods, and that they are told mostly in first-person.
Barry Hannah blew me away.In this collection of 20 stories there are certainly pieces centered around mid-to-late century marginalized members of southern society; there's also a handful of fantastic works employing the American Civil War as the setting ("Behold the Husband in His Perfect Agony" might be the best five page story I’ve read in an age) – but there are enough stories between the covers that show Hannah’s amazing range.
“Testimony of Pilot” is the longest story of the collection and has the reader guessing the whole way through to the excellent ending.
Together they work in unison, like a symphony with dark overtones, occasional laughter and a lot of impossible dreams (airships of different constructions)For me the definition of a good story is one that not only captures an emotion in the limited space offered by the format, but one that has layers of meaning that can be revealed through multiple readings and beautiful / poetic turns of phrase that make you go off the page and continue the story in your own head.
The characters that inhabit these stories are soldiers, tennis pros, cannibals and high school band members.
Quite honestly, there are several stories here that I didn't like at all, but the good ones more than made up for them.
Once a blue-suited man on the ground was holding his hands out after his horse fell over.
My horse, Pardon Me, was rearing way high and I couldn't put the muzzle of my shotgun at him.
The man knelt down, closing his eyes as if to pray.
On his horse, he said:"Finish that poor Christian off, soldier."My horse settled down and I blew the man over.
The writing in Airships is unlike anything I've encountered. Hannah writes like he was raised on a steady diet of Faulkner, Raymond Carver, and (perhaps) strangely George Saunders. Moments of tenderness abutting hysterical filth.... The stories about Quadberry and French Edward are among the best short stories I've read.
Airships makes me want to be a better man.
The fix was in, the ball deflated, the gloves weighted (hey, I’m rapping!) The thing is, a lot of it works; a brace of stories that are sublime hold promise early out.
Unilaterally, the small clutch of Jeb Stuart stories are beautiful in their depiction of Southern heroics and mendacity—often at the same time—during the Civil War.It’s when Hannah tries on his sci-fi pants, for instance, that he loses me.
They read like bad Barthelme (which can be considered a double negative, depending on the time of day).
Maybe after I re-read the collected works of that notorious short story inkpot Chekov, for instance.

“What a bog and labyrinth the human essence is, in comparison.
Compared with horses, we are all a dizzy and smelly farce.”Barry Hannah explicitly makes mincemeat out of an American dream and his heroes have to live their lives as preposterous tragedies.“I don’t think Jesus wants you.
He’s too dead to want.
He was a hell of a sweet genius guy, but he’s dead.
The only thing left is humanism.
Are you humanistic?”The characters wallow in their ridiculous misery but they don’t fight against it… There is no other mode of existence.
Hands down Barry Hannah is the best short story writer dead or alive except for maybe Raymond Carver, though his stories aren't for those easily offended. Look if you love great literature pick up this book and damn it read the fucking thing, anything less would doing the written word a grave disservice!
(2.5) Entertaining, definitely, but not completely enjoyable. "Dragged Fighting From His Tomb" and "Return to Return" were the highlights for me, but perhaps I should stick to novels and non-fiction.
Oh, yes, religion is covered in spades, and Hannah parodies and explores the divide between Roman Catholicism and Protestantism in a most original and insightful manner.The last story was a favorite of mine, a longer one, is about a tilted old house, where an old bedraggled woman in Jackson, MS endures the insults of her downtrodden boarders, takes a tumble and reminisces about her life while lying in wait to die: “Mother Rooney surged up on her haunch bones.
The story has a tidy ending, when her cruel tenants, drunkenly dropping by for yet another mean trick, finally see the human being in the old woman: “’I know it’s horrible now.
It feels strange to give an explanation of why I love this book so much.
I gave one of the stories, "Testimony of Pilot" to a group of kids I was teaching last winter, and I am afraid to say not a one of them found it the least bit interesting.
But the reason I like Airships so much, I think, has something to do with the fact that these stories aren't at all what you're supposed to expect from "classic" short fiction.
And why I'll teach this book to any short fiction class I ever have, even if they hate it.
Carlos was a Presbyterian then, trying to be a preacher in Tucson, where Navajos started a fistfight during Carlos's sermons and the women simply fell dead asleep, this being their only period of rest in the week.
His wife ate near five pounds of food a day.
Food gave her an insufferable burst of energy, as if she'd swallowed a pound of drugs.
She got melancholy and cried huge tears because nothing "took." She had her heart attack trying again.
which you will either find hilarious or insufferable, depending.
i found it hilarious at first and then insufferable.
The first couple stories in this book had me thinking Barry Hannah was the offspring of Raymond Carver and Kurt Vonnegut.
He cast the same kinds of characters as Carver - working-class folk, some uneducated - but with a streak of humor and a sense of absurdity that Vonnegut employed.
I think Hannah considered his wacky loose flywheel approach to storytelling to be a little bit more amusing than it actually was.
Sometimes you need a beginning, middle, and end, however conventional that is.
It's called Testimony of a Pilot, and it works because it tells the story from beginning to end with character development and everything!
Some of the stories read like Stephen King's early stories—although with a more literary vocabulary.
I suppose the civil war stories, given the time when they were written, can be read as metaphors for the Vietnam War (and in "Midnight And I'm Not Famous Yet" the NVA general makes the comparison explicit).
I can imagine many readers unable to spot the parody without having someone pointing out who the target is (the targets were perhaps easier to spot in the early and mid-70s when these stories were written).
It's difficult to give one rating to a book of short stories, but I enjoyed some of these so much that they overpower the few that I couldn't get into.
Barry Hannah has lived down the street since I moved there at age 10, but after my mother stopped me from reading his books in middle school (smart woman), I didn't pick them up until recently.
I didn't like most of the Civil War-set stories with the exception of "Behold the Husband in his Perfect Agony."I would have liked to read this with a class or a book club because the stories are rich enough to feel layers that I couldn't open up on my own.
Barry Hannah's "AirShips" is a collection of short stories that are twisted, completely inventive, and written in Hannah's distinctly southern style.
Hannah has a talent for taking ordinary cliched plots, and making them his own in a way that I have seen few writers attempt, let alone succeed at.
The book is fearless in that it does not follow the conventions of traditional literature- by doing this- the book is able to establish a unique tone and style that is innovative and entertaining.
I found this collection of stories to be truly unique and one that I wouldn't mind revisiting in the near future.
I feel a little guilty about this review.
This book is considered (by its blurb) to be a contemporary classic.
Hannah can tell a story, and he apparently introduced postmodernism to Southern Literature, but I feel this work may not age well.
There is common use of the N-word but not in a way that one can conclude is being used in historical context (example: Flannery O'Connor).In sum, the book is worth reading--I don't think you can avoid it if you are interested in Southern Literature--but I found it to be a mixed bag.
The more I read short-shorts, the more I think it's a nearly impossible challenge to ask any story below a certain page/word count to feel complete enough to really draw a reader into the world it creates in any meaningful way.One of the things that struck me most about these stories was their effortless series of locations - a dock where the old men of the area hand out and spin tall tales for each others' benefits appears in at least two stories; a failed dinner party; a string of tennis courts; and the Civil War-era South of Jeb Stuart's cavalrymen earns several appearances.

This has 5 star stories in it: 'Dragged Fighting from His Tomb', 'Testimony of Pilot', and 'Midnight and I'm Not Famous Yet'.
Each of these stories are masterpieces.
I've got a pretty big soft spot for Barry Hannah: 'Long, Last, Happy' has all the best of this book and other stuff, too.
He's got equals, but I don't really care.
His stories cut and heal all at the same time.
The last story 'Mother Rooney...' fits into, I think, 'Geronimo Rex', his novel, but also stands out here for the empathy Hannah's got for the title character.

I'll admit that it's an unfair bias of mine to assume that literature should have any real "point", but despite the sheer oddity of most of the stories in this collection, the appeal of Barry Hannah's strange style is the most enjoyable when he is the most lucid.
As awkward to read as as they sometimes are, stories like "Love Too Long", "Testimony of Pilot", "Our Secret Home", "Eating Wife and Friends", "All the Old Harkening Faces at the Rail", and "Constant Pain in Tuscaloosa" are enjoyable.
I'll readily concede that I may be too much of dullard to really "get" Barry Hannah's style, but this isn't a collection I'd rush to recommend to my friends.
This is my first experience with Barry Hannah; I'm an obvious late comer.
This collection is one surprising sentence after another.
The characters here are other-worldly.
Hannah is the kind of writer that is maddening to read because I can't see where he's coming from.
Trying to track his narrative logic is impossible.
His prose is all over the place (in the best possible way) and it's as weird and disturbing as his murderous characters.
You come away from them feeling like you've just spent time in a novel.
Totally weird stuff.
Totally enjoyable.
There are plenty in Airships.I may be biased in my love for this book, since it is a book filled with Southern narrators and I am still preoccupied with all that because I am new to it.
Really, tho, these are psychotic narrators and the South is the perfect setting for insanity.
Insanity is my biggest fear and so I am living in the wrong place, but reading about it makes it all the more easier to accept.I almost never feel the need to own a book, but this is one I wish I had on my miserable little book shelf.
Masie Cochran (Associate Editor, Tin House Books): I’m reading Airships by Barry Hannah.
I read this collection in high school, again in college, and keep coming back to it every few years.
I love “Testimony of Pilot, “(take a second and read An Amazing Sentence Shape by Kate Brittain), “Green Gets It,” and “Our Second Home.” But this week, for whatever reason, I’ve read “Love too Long” twice.
It’s angry and sloppy and wild and raw and so, so good.
It’s about a lot of things, but mainly a man who loved a woman too much.
4.5/5 There is no one, as far as I know, who writes like Barry Hannah. Fevered, lewd, darkly funny, occasionally incomprehensible. Hannah is clearly taking cues from the Southern Gothic tradition and the Lish school of short-story writing, but Airships still manages to surprise and bewilder, with stories that consistently keep you on the back foot. Also, FYI, Hannah is the patron poet saint of what he would call the female "organ." His medium is not exactly the ode; something slightly more dirty, but no less appreciative.
