https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2402968.A_Short_Life_of_Abraham_Lincoln
Nicolay, private secretary to Abraham Lincoln, wrote A Short Life of Abraham Lincoln which was published in 1902, the year following his death.
As private secretary to the 16th President of the United States, Nicolay was in a position to relate actions and thoughts of Lincoln during the Civil War. This book is a condensed form of an original two volume publication.
The book is filled with letters and dispatches between President Lincoln, his cabinet members and the generals appointed to fight the battles and ultimately the war.
Intotdeauna ma surprinde cat de dificil este sa reusesti si ca nu doar se intampla ci e un cumul de multi factori la care trebuie contribuit.Abraham Lincoln s-a nascut sarac, a fost un autodidact si a devenit avocat si politician.
Se intrevede clar geniul lui Lincoln si faptul ca era deasupra vremurilor sale.Mi-a trezit curiozitatea ca pe viitor sa descopar mai multe despre el, dintr-o perspectiva mai personala si mai in ansamblu.Ce m-a impresionat: atitudinea toleranta si de infratire fara de inamici dupa ce a castigat razboiul, gandirea vizionara pentru egalitate in drepturi si libertate, speech-urile si scrisorile lui, inclusiv cele prin care isi schimba generalii si mai ales modestia.
Nicolay could be viewed as the proverbial “fly on the wall,” yet in fact, he was closer than that because Lincoln used him and Nicolay’s deputy, Jacob Hay——who co-wrote another biography of Lincoln with Nicolay——as sounding boards on many key decisions which Lincoln did not always share even with his cabinet members.
Furthermore, the president often revealed information and secrets to Hay and Nicolay that he discussed with no one else, and as a consequence, Nicolay’s account is one of the most important documents to emerge after the Civil War. Much that is known about the conduct of the war, as well Lincoln’s opinions, and of course his actions and decisions, can be traced to this work and it serves as a powerful source of information for anyone researching or writing about the war, yet it is surprisingly little heralded by those who write of the war.
Great to read reflections from the two young secretaries who attended Lincoln throughout his administration. Though the book occasionally wanders into the "subject-verb-date" scenario of historical writing, it remains powerful to consider insights from those who were on the scene and privy to the thoughts of key players during the nation's most tumultuous era.
Born into poverty, lost eight elections, twice failed in business and suffered a nervous breakdown. But he didn't quit, he became one of the greatest presidents in the history of USA. it's fascinating to read story of this wonderful man. The origin of the "american dream". A true history of america and perhaps AMERICA'S finest leader #AbrahamLincoln.
I liked it. It gave the story from one of Lincoln's closest aides during the presidency and with the perspective of those times.
e-book --- http://www.gutenberg.org/files/16332/...audio book --- http://librivox.org/a-short-life-of-a...
Great insight into Abraham Lincolns life. It took me a long time to finish but glad to have read it. :)
Quite a bit of Civil War history for a biography...
A single-volume abridgement of Nicolay & Hay's Abraham Lincoln: A History.
