https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111563.God_in_the_Dock
Yet, if you just read Mere Christianity and The Chronicles of Narnia, maybe also Screwtape Letter, sure, he may seem over-rated.God in the Dock is the longest Lewis book I've seen, maybe only his collected Letters are longer.
If you have read a lot of Lewis you will see ideas from his other works coming out here.
His most popular books, such as Mere Christianity, are targeted at people who do not read thick and heavy theology books.
My point is, Lewis is much more complex than a reading of a few of his books can show.He may not have quoted theologians, but he was familiar with academics.
Probably my favorite of all the essays is "Man or Rabbit?", which is a word-picture of conversion.
He's got something else to think about." "It may be better to live under robber barons than under omnipotent moral busybodies.""If it were my business to have a 'view' on this, I should say that I much approve of merry-making.
But what I approve of much more is everybody minding his own business.""Can it really be my duty to buy and receive masses of junk every winter just to help the shopkeepers?""Didn't they know that, Bomb or no Bomb, all men die (many in horrible ways)?
"God in the Dock" is a great collection of essays and letters from C.S. Lewis, compiled and edited by Walter Hooper.
For the American readers like myself, the book title (from an essay of the same name) is not referring to God being down at the boat dock, but rather in the dock, or witness stand, in a British court.
Lewis addresses a wide range of subjects like the presence of evil in the world, the possibility of miracles, dogma, crime and punishment, and various proposed changes in the church at that time in England.
Great. Also read in March of 1980.
Excellent. Favorite essays: Christian Apologetics, Man or Rabbit, The Trouble With “X,” Dangers of National Repentance, On the Reading of Old Books, Bulverism, and The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment.
It is a collection of essays, letters, and published interviews on a broad variety of subjects which the editor has gathered from many sources (newspapers, magazines, pamphlets, books by other authors, mostly British but sometimes American).Being a collection Lewis never envisioned would be collected, it is in some ways incohesive and in some ways repetitive.
The incohesion comes from the broad range of subject matter addressed, from the humanitarian theory of punishment to vivisection to the ordination of women to supernaturalism.
If I had to recommend to you an essay collection by C.
S. Lewis, then THIS WOULD IT BE!!!Walter Hooper has done a very great job in compiling this essay collection....I must confess that in the art of writing, the essay form versus the novel or even novellas has capture and gain my heart.It even was neglected by me, so as for example other peoples neglect short stories or non fiction literature....And so "God in the Dock" by C.
S. Lewis works, than this book would be a good beginning ...I recommend it to all of you whose spirits keep asking, and cannot find appropriate answers.And five stars of course, please don't miss this one, it will be without a doubt rewarding experience.I promise it!!!Dean:)
I really enjoyed this book. At one moment it would be delightful, then next abominable theology, and the next the best theology I've heard in a long time. Definitely one to cherry pick from and re read in the future
Owen Barfield said that what Lewis "thought about everything was secretly present in what he said about anything." He referred to it as a kind of "consistency" or "presence of mind".This is what I have found in his books - a consistently Christian worldview.
And what better place to find it than in a book with the topical diversity of "God in the Dock".From ethical questions (like pains and afterlife of animals) to theological topics (like religion and science) to cultural topics (like the celebration of Christmas), Lewis writes with his characteristic precision and color.
It's a valuable work for any Lewis enthusiast to explore, but it's worth remembering that Lewis, for all of his abilities and wisdom as a writer both of fiction and apologetics, was but a man, somewhat introverted and cloistered, and a product of his time as well.
It's also worth noting that, even within these pages, Lewis' views on some of these topics did change or soften over time.
It's a good book to explore, and to do so with an open mind, because when he is good, he is very, very good.
For the past several months, I’ve started each day by reading an essay from this collection, a tradition I’m somewhat sad to see end.
Particularly enjoyed “The Trouble with ‘X’”, “We Have No ‘Right to Happiness’”, “First and Second Things” and “The Sermon and the Lunch”.
A memorable excerpt from the latter:“If a man can’t be comfortable and unguarded, can’t take his ease and ‘be himself’ in his own house, where can he?
That is, I confess, the trouble.
It will never be lawful simply to ‘be ourselves’ until ourselves have become sons of God.”
This is one of those grandly frustrating books that is so quotable it is not. In seeking a reasonable division for a quote, one finds he has posted to Facebook the entire book. Some parts, like "Modern Translations of the Bible", I feel like I wrote. Others, like "Priestesses in the Church?" and "The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment" are prophetic. Not by design, but because we have grown so absurd, his reductios are now fulfilled predictions. Excepting Walter Hooper’s coattail-riding foreword, I found this collection of 60-year-old writings as fresh and applicable as today’s blog.
The following essays are especially rich:- “Christian apologetics” - great introduction on how to do apologetics - “On the transmission of Christianity” - why are young people so messed up?
Because old people are messed up.- “dangers of national repentance”- young people tend to “repent” for their past ancestors instead of repenting of their own sins.- “on reading old books” - reading old books helps us escape our cultural moment.
-“Priestesses in the church” - a call for complementarity in the church.-“god in the dock” - how to do apologetics with the masses-“Bulverism”- people aren’t wrong just because they are lower class, middle class, upper class, men, women or something else.
Great essay for the day of identity politics.
Classic Lewis goodness.
A rare communicator among great thinkers and writers, Lewis is able to put deep thoughts on the lower shelf, accessible to the man who has callouses on his hands and dirt under his fingernails.God in the Dock is a compendium of Lewis’ essays, articles, letters, and a few transcripts of his speeches compiled by editor Walter Hooper, who served briefly as Lewis’ secretary during the illness that took Lewis’ life.
Lewis contended that, though historically false, such stories conveyed subtle evidences of transcendence—in other words, evidence of God, the True Joy. But he also used the term to describe Christianity, and that’s what makes modern Bible-believers nervous.
They always think you are recommending Christianity not because it is true but because it is good.
101).”“The higher sort [of prayer]…offers no advice to God; it consists only of ‘communion’ or intercourse with Him; and those who take this line seem to suggest that the lower kind of prayer [asking for things to happen] really is an absurdity and that only children or savages use it (p.
107).”“The man who asks me, ‘Can’t I lead a good life without believing Christianity?’ is clearly not in the same position.
The man who asks this question has heard of Christianity and is by no means certain that it may not be true.
Of course, like any book of essays, I didn't love every single one, but overall this volume was fun to read.
Lewis's humor comes across in many of the essays and had me actually chuckling out loud.
There were some essays I skimmed, some essays I did not understand, but then there were essays that were so true and insightful (as Lewis tends to be), and I have underlined many portions of this book.
A good book to own and come back to again.
I wouldn't think this would be the type of book you would want to get from a library unless you wanted to just read a few specific essays.
Before I discovered Adrian Plass and Philip Yancey, CS Lewis was unquestionably my favourite Christian author.
For apologetics and clear explanations of doctrine, I don't think he has any equal.However this particular book isn't one of his best.
To be fair, it was never intended as a book.
The chapters are short, and I enjoy his intellectual but clear style of writing.There were some gems in the early sections, but I was less impressed with some of the later chapters which displayed distinct upper-middle-class 1940s bias.All in all, not a good introduction to CS Lewis, but a nice addition for a collector of his works.
It's always a pleasure to get a glimpse inside the brilliant mind of C.S. Lewis. This tiny book if filled with thought provoking short essays. Very enjoyable! A favorite quote that will stick with me, that I think is interesting to apply to today's society and standards is his view of inequality..."I cannot conceive how one could get through the boredom of a world in which you never met anyone more clever, or more beautiful, or stronger than yourself."
Nearly perfect collection of theological and ethical essays by C.S. Lewis -- I say nearly because his theological writings get a little repetitive; but the really great stuff at the end are his essays on things like sex and Christmas. No essays about Christmas sex, thank God. Lots of material in short doses. The essay on "Bulverism" pushed this into a five-star rating.
God in the Dock is the first C.S. Lewis book I completed. It was excellent. The essays are short so that I was able to read them as a morning devotional.I was able to get comfortable with Lewis' style and went on to read 2 or 3 other books by him.Very enjoyable, especially the chapter which was a Q & A event at an English factory.
Sometimes I forget how great CS Lewis is. Then, I go back and re-read this book and see that the man is a genius. People give him a lot of attention for Narnia, but I think his brilliance shines in his essays.
This is a collection of essays that is outstanding. I took a C.S. Lewis class at Ricks (one of the benefits of attending a church school) and the teacher pulled a lot of material out of this book. It is great.
Essential and at some points quite entertaining reading for Lewis readers.
Rich, deep, practical, provoking.One of those books that I ought to create an outline for for future reference.
But to the Christian, individuals are more important, for they live eternally; and races, civilizations and the like, are in comparison the creatures of a day.He also tackles the growing ignorance of and abandonment of Christianity among the then-current generation of students in a way that could very well be used for any complaint about modern student ignorance.
Of course, it becomes then important to define what it means by better off, and many of these essays tackle that as well.Mercy, detached from Justice, grows unmerciful.
While Lewis was humble as to his own abilities to engage in emotional appeals to “come to Jesus,” the fact that he participated openly and publicly in discussions with ordained ministers must have been viewed as somewhat cheeky and daring, and maybe even disrespectful, by some people who believe themselves above accountability to laypeople concerning the practices and behavior of ordained ministers.Even apart from the specific context of Lewis’ writings in various intramural debates among fellow Christian apologists, or in his pointed critiques of his contemporary political culture, these essays sparkle in large part because they are so eminently quotable [3].
As a matter of fact, Lewis explicitly takes up that fourth option in his essay "What Are We To Make of Jesus Christ?" And he dispatches of the "legend" option effectively.3.
His essay on "National Repentance" was provocative.
He adds some insightful qualifications about how this can turn into a smug, Pharisaical act (though he DOES NOT argue against the practice of national repentance per se).
6. He takes up the issue of 'all of those manuscripts and copies of the Bible, how do we know we have the real thing?' attributing it to an argument made by non-informed laity.
I remember seeing this book on a shelf growing up and thinking that CS Lewis must really be into sailing if he even saw God in a dock on a lake or something.
The title makes a lot more sense when you realize that the "dock" is courtroom stand and Lewis is talking about how God has moved from judge to defendant.
Lewis's ability to unthinkingly translate Aristotle into the argument of an ordinary personal letter is one of his great gifts.
Issues of wanting government to take care problems, but then cringing when it takes away our freedoms: issues of happiness and giving free reign to our sexual desires: celebrating Christ’s birth vs running around like mad to get ready for Christmas: how to deal with crime: problems on education systems: and a favorite, to read original works by old, dead authors because they’re good enough to stand up to time, better written, and possibly easier to understand than the new books writing about them.
