https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12016.Look_to_Windward
In a lot of ways it is a direct sequel to the first Culture book, 'Consider Phlebas', even taking its name from the same line of the infamous T.S Eliot poem 'The Wastelands'.
Reading the culture novels has established Banks as my new favorite author, as well as one of the most capable authors I've read.This book shows terrific maturity of Banks' as a compelling storyteller and epic world-builder.
'Consider Phlebas' was 90% world-building / 10% story, and it was extremely boring as a result.
Banks’ phenomenal  Culture series of space opera set in a post-scarcity universe where humans are the most powerful known species.
While Major Quilan is clearly up to no good with his super secret mission he is surprisingly sympathetic, and you can’t help but things turn out well for him personally.Pacing issues notwithstanding, Look To Windward is another good read from the Culture series, it does require some patience and commitment but if you have read a few Culture books beforehand you will come to trust Iain M.
Look no further if you're looking for a tale of fantastically huge sources and end results of regret, suicide, the negation of life-affirmation, exploding suns, and excellent tales of love between non-humanoid sentients and nearly god-like Minds.This is a Culture novel.
The rest of the novel might have benefited from some tightening, as a whole, but in general, I loved being on the planet that would celebrate survival and a symphony just as the light of a few novas finally reached their star system, commemorating the end of an enormously costly conflict between themselves and the Culture as it finally caught up to them at light-speed.But what of the plot?
heavy, heavy themes done with a light and benevolent touch.
the topics on display include suicide and suicide bombings, terrorism, genocide, imperialism/cultural colonialism, the nature of war, the afterlife...
VAGUE SPOILERS: the last four chapters are jaw-dropping in scope, moving from an elegiac double suicide (i teared up!) to a mind-boggling check-in with minor characters set millions of years in the future to a vicious and literally gut-wrenching display of retribution to a surprisingly wry ending (complete with a snappily ironic gotcha moment of role reversal).
awesome.good stuff on its own; amazing when considered as just one piece of the author's Culture novels.
You love this book.
Brad: I do.Brad: So why?Brad: Because of all the Culture books it is the least accessible.
Brad: I thought it was accessible.Brad: But you've read the preceding Culture books.
Brad: You have.
Brad: Okay, I have, but this book was written for people who've read the preceding books.
It is not a book one can come to without knowledge.
Criticize a book because it's not for everyone.Brad: Something like that.Brad: Cause it is for everyone if they do the work to get here.Brad: I'd rather just keep this book for mark and me.
Brad: Impossible.
My second Culture novel after The Player of Games, and I think I'm at a point where I'm going to be ravenously devouring them.
Like many others have mentioned, this is a novel about loss and mourning -- thinking back on the events of the book, not much actually happens, but Banks uses enough narrative shift and experiments with perspective that it always remains fascinating.
And as always, his aliens are a delight; the airsphere chapters and behemothaurs are some of the most interesting things I've ever read.
Say hello to Kabe (pronounced Ka - beh), a tripedal, three-and-a-half meter tall triangular bulk of politely plodding philosophical awesomeness, who can stand so perfectly still while lost in thought that silly humans often mistake him for some sort of humongous, statuesque work of art.
Kabe looked around, then quickly did a little hopping, shuffling dance, executing the steps with a delicacy belying his bulk and weight.
This is the first Culture novel that I gave five stars, since I was never bored.Look to Windward is a deeply philosophical book.
Read this now, or next time you’re in a deeply philosophical mood.
The first is a moving love story between completely non-human extraterrestrial creatures; I think it's the only successful example I've ever come across.
I was also impressed with the companion thread about the Mind, and its terrible feelings of guilt for the things it has done during the Idiran war 800 years earlier; without apparent effort, Banks succeeds in making the reader empathize strongly with a disembodied, superintelligent, artificial intelligence.
I think he said somewhere that he completely rewrote Use of Weapons after a first draft that he was very dissatisfied with, and the final result is indeed one of his best books.
Iain Banks died earlier this year, and what a huge loss to the science fiction community it was.
I figured I'd end the year by visiting his wonderful universe again for one last new adventure - something that will never happen again.If you're interested in his Culture series (you should be), don't start here, as it is actually a loosely connected sequel to Consider Phlebas, the very first Culture novel, and shock waves (literally) from that book are felt in this one.
You wrote perfect science fiction, and I figure your like will not be around again for quite some time.
Subliming concept.Let me elaborate on above points of the book1.Masaq orbital.Although throughout the culture series we have seen lot of orbitals, but they were lacking complete description in order to visualize them clearly.
The minds are also have various personality traits which act as their identifiers.The hub mind of Masaq orbital is unique in a sense because it was previously an a GSV i.e. General systems vehicle mind, which are a sort of warships in culture.
The hub mind then takes help of Kabe who is an homondan a tripedal species who is an ambassador in culture in order to convince Ziller.
It deals with huge, terrible themes (war, loss, revenge, suicide, suicide bombings) and philosophical questions (exile, redemption, forgiveness), in multiple storylines spread across hundreds of years.
The scope is HUGE.
Kabe is magnificient, Ziller is brilliant, Quilan is heartbreaking.
The philosphical debates between Kabe and Ziller, in particular, are an absolute joy to behold.
I'm gonna quote a short passage for my own amusement:Ziller was staring at him.
I've seen its flares!''Yes. Pretty, aren't they?':) And this isn't even one of their great debates, just a small thing that made me laugh.
That's not to say that there isn't a plot, but the things that're happening are happening as a direct result of a known and understood past: in Consider Phlebas, the conflict is new; in Use of Weapons, Zakalwe gets involved in a lot of unrelated (except by his presence) situations; in The Player of Games, the Culture is actively meddling.
But Look to Windward is the aftermath of Consider Phlebas and of the same kind of situation that is played out in Use of Weapons and Player of Games.The depictions of grief and guilt, loss and longing, are incredibly well done.
I have read so many of the Culture novels in such a short period of time that I find it difficult to know what to write this time.
My online book club is doing a series read, so every month, there is another one.
My relationship with the series tends to be up and down - some books I really enjoy, some I find frustratingly opaque.
This was not one of the opaque ones.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Nevar teikt, ka man šī sērija nepatiktu, vienkārši pēc katras grāmatas izlasīšanas nerodas vēlme tūlīt lasīt nākamo.
Viņa planēta nesen ir pārcietusi pilsoņu karu, un daudzi šajā ceļojumā saskata Čel vēlmi samierināties ar Kultūras pārstāvjiem.
Kultūra nez kādēļ nav ņēmusi vērā visas šīs nianses, un savā veidā mēģinot demokratizēt sabiedrību, ir izraisījusi visasiņaināko pilsoņu karu planētas vēsturē.
Taču viņš zina savas planētas reālijas un ne par ko negrib tikties ar majoru Kvilanu.
Viņa emocijas var saprast, bet kādēļ izvēlēties šādu veidu, lai pieliktu punktu savai dzīvei, var nojaust tikai pēc visas grāmatas izlasīšanas.
At first I thought that this title was a bit much given that Banks had already used Consider Phlebas, which seemed to me more appropriate to the novel it graces.
But it just occured to me: the people in this book are those who 'look to windward'; the entire book is an extended meditation on the message of Phlebas the Phonecian.
A meditation on death, and loss, despair, remorse, I suppose, but mostly on the different kinds of relationships one can have with death.
Two different kinds of death, and loss of the self while continuing to live is judged the greater evil.
(if you're not in the know, the Culture is a post-scarcity galactic civilization whose citizens are freed from such drudgeries as money and jobs - it's an idea that makes for great science fiction).
In typical Banks fashion, there are times when you're not sure what's going on (especially in the non-numbered chapters), but you have to trust that it all comes together in the end.
Speaking of the end, death is another major topic: would you really want to live forever, or is there something to be said for the sweet oblivion of nothingness?EDIT (June 7, 2015): See my reviews of all ten Culture books here: http://examinedworlds.blogspot.com/20...

„Look to Windward“ ist ein Roman, der innerhalb des Culture-Universums von Ian M.
Es ist auch ein Roman über die Culture selbst.Der Roman handelt neben der eigentlichen Hauptgeschichte auch vom Leben in einer Gesellschaft, die keinen Mangel kennt und deren Bewohner langlebig und durch das Anlegen von Backups praktisch unsterblich sind - oder sein könnten.
Banks lässt seine Charaktere eine Vielzahl von verschiedenen Orten und Landschaften besuchen, die fantastisch bis gelegentlich absurd sind.Was die Rassen, Geschlechter und andere Unterscheidungsmerkmale der Charaktere angeht, erfreut Ian M.
Für mich einer der besten, wenn nicht gar der beste Culture-Roman - 5/5!
-Una intencionalidad sociopolítica enorme bajo el barniz de género.-Género.
En el libro A barlovento (publicación original: Look to Windward, 2000), Worosei es un militar chelgriano que viajará hasta un orbital de La Cultura en una misión diplomática con el objetivo de que Zeller, un músico autoexiliado allí, regrese con él.
Pero detrás de la misión hay algo mucho más peligroso, un acto que mezcla la agresión, la venganza y la acción socioreligiosa.
Y es que las acciones de La Cultura, mucho tiempo atrás, provocaron infinidad de muertes entre los chelgrianos.
Sexto libro de la serie La Cultura.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
This entry into the series has many themes similar to Consider Phlebas (being the spiritual successor), while being a story that can be enjoyed on its own. Much of this story takes place upon one of the Culture's more unique orbitals, Masaq', which allows for a interesting look at how different members of the civilization view life and death.
So like 1) In what way is it the culture's responsibility?2) Why is the ending of the caste system presented as inevitably resulting in terrible violence worse than the caste system itself?I don't want to be too like "well this doesn't follow my communist morality so it's bad" but it does feel like a very strange moral tale to have the oppressed become atrociously violent suddenly for no good reason and for it to be the wrong thing to have helped them at all.
Banks continually amazes me with his ability to imagine and then bring to life such fantastic scenarios, to describe them so beautifully, and to render them so completely believable in the context of the current plot movement and the larger universe he creates.Look to Windward deals with the matter of the Sublimed, which is repeatedly hinted at by previous novels.
All of this forms the backdrop for a gradually revealed espionage plot that does an excellent job of creating dramatic tension.I would recommend that anyone wanting to start reading the Culture books start here.
After reading  The Algebraist , I was going to swear off Iain M. Banks for the rest of '08. But, Ginnie recommended it so highly that I felt it was worth bumping up the list.I can definitely see why she gives it such praise. It's a dense, nuanced story that explores the motivations for terrorism, throwing that into sharp contrast against what it means to love another, reciprocating entity. Even if that love becomes cancerously deep and pathological? Of course, the story is also a clear allegory
Just by chance they happen to encounter The Culture; and just by chance The Culture's intervention throws the Chelgrian social order wildly out of balance.
And in the aftermath of the precipitate Caste War, even The Culture comes forward with some apologetic hand-waving.If anything, Banks goes out of his way to "properly" paint The Culture as wanton aggressors.
Just a handful of militant zealots -- apparently with the backing of some more sophisticated parties.Where Banks takes this for an ending is shrewd and sly and a manifold of tragic.
They are very different novels and both brilliant, but Look to Windward is very touching for the reader on an individual level, given the attention Banks pays to characterization of the principals involved.
The mistake reminds me of why Horza decides to assist the Idirans in their war against the Culture as it plays out in Banks's 1987 novel Consider Phlebas.
The Culture realizing the cost of their intervention not only admit they were wrong to interfere in the first place but also take responsibility for their actions to the extent that they are able.
Storyline: 3/5Characters: 3/5Writing Style: 3/5World: 4/5At this point in the series even an average-quality Culture book garners a boost of goodwill and esteem for the Culture decalogy.
This was a better than average science fiction book as well as a better-than-average Culture book.
Banks returns, much to my satisfaction, more to science fiction and worldbuilding in this volume.
The books come off insufficiently deep considering their breadth then, as well as overly-familiar when supposedly alien, and then the characters generate only a mild connection given the wordcount Banks devotes to them.
Still, these are largely minor considerations relative to the many positives of this book and the series generally.
Having previously read and loved several M.Banks books including Consider Phlebas, I was concerned that Look to Windward might be something of a less fulfilling dour introspection.
How wrong can one person be?Look to Windward is another Banks triumph.
Hubs final scene with Quilan in particular shows Banks' talent off in superb style and is deeply emotive.This will be one to reread along with Consider Phlebas in the future and I have no doubt that like Phlebas the second reading will only uncover more perspective and depth of understanding of the text.I loved it.
Además sobrevuelan toda la novela ideas (la muerte, la venganza, la expiación, el perdón...) muy bien tratadas en las diferentes tramas que Banks plantea.No obstante son varios los hilos a engarzar y alguno queda un tanto cojo en una secuencia demasiado irregular.
En este sentido, narrativamente me ha parecido la novela más discursiva de la serie.
Si a esto le añades el cabreo que me ha despertado el epílogo, un texto en primera persona introducido para dar una sensación de cierre, absolutamente a la contra de las 400 páginas anteriores, se entiende mejor mi valoración en plan "está bien pero...".
In the ordinary scheme of things I'd probably give this a 4.
I knew I still had his great gift of 2 more Culture books to enjoy, this and Inversion.
So while thrilled to read another Banks books, it was with heavy heart knowing there would be no more.
This was beautiful book about death and memory and loss but also about life.
There's a great twist at the end.
As always there's Banks wonderful touch of humor and humanity.
One of my favorite scenes is some anonymous Culture members at a party riff on Ship's names.
It happens so rarely that I sat quietly for a while after finishing to bathe in the wonderful delight of a book that works so well.
I love this story and right now want to re-read every Culture novel again to find every last bit of genius missed during late night reading.Despite wonderful craft of this storytelling, the book didn't really grab me until about 1/2 way through, at which point I was surprised to find myself completely engrossed within the multiple storylines and reluctant to stop for the beauty sleep i so desperately need.
I highly recommend this book.
Full review on my podcast, SFBRP episode #263.Coming soon: Culture Read-Through Wrap-Up show.
