https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4191136-business-adventures
I read the ebook, and I understand a print version will be forthcoming in September.This book makes me feel as though I'm sitting at the knee of my grandfather, listening to wise recollections.A writer of articles in the 1950's and 1960, many for the New Yorker, the author intelligently and thoughtfully steps through 12 events, one per chapter.At first I thought perhaps I was particularly dense and wasn't getting the message.
I had such a great time reading this book. Like I have said before, I am not an educated man. I only have a GED. But that did not stop me from understanding and enjoying this book. I learned so much and the authors style kept my attention locked. i hope you enjoy.
Recommended by Bill Gates.3.5 stars. The author has a talent for making complex financial concepts accessible. The essays on the Edsel, Xerox, and the non-compete were especially good.
Dated, slow, and failed to carry a common theme are among the criticisms of this republished book, which has been touted by wunderkind, Bill Gates.
Sadly, the criticisms are all quite true.
Most of these "classic tales" date from the late 50s and 60s, ranging from the colossal failure of Ford's Edsel model, to the vagaries of the federal taxation system, to the syndicate of nations that avoided a collapse of the British pound, to a case of cornering the market (Piggly Wiggly), to a case of trade secrets vs.
free employment.
Xerox spent twice their revenue ($75m) on it until it worked, executives took payment in stock and put mortgages into it (and even got support from university of Rochester).But it also offers insight into other areas:Describes the impact of copying onto copyright and how some thought books may disappear; apparently some things never change…Furthermore, there are lessons to be learned about the executives attitude to not taking stock movements too seriously, and the challenge of keeping company culture during rapid growth (e.g. becoming more impersonal when lot of new employees join.Overall, one of the best ones in the book.6.
I really enjoyed this book! The author has a real gift for making the financial world extremely interesting. Not since Jeffry Archer and Kane and Abel have I read an account of financial dealings that was so exciting! I particularly enjoyed the struggle to save the sterling, the corner, the life of david lilienthal, and other pieces.Some pieces were kind of boring though. Sadly, the author does not have the gift of brevity, and tends to ramble on and on.Highly recommend for anyone interested in business!
A very dated book having an anthology of business stories. Some are interesting while others read like a scientific journal. Coincidentally, a few stories mirror real life business dilemmas!
The opening chapter on the mini-crash in '62 and the tech/messaging/quote issues they had reads almost like a tale from today minus their Fred Flintstone technology--ooh a computer that can read the NYC phone book in 7 minutes.
The mini-panic caused by a fraudulent vegetable oil trade that killed a couple firms and forced Wall Street to pool its $$ to bailout innocent acct holders reads like a premonition of our Age of Bailouts.
In all a breezy read once you skim the more dated chapters.
Great book. Since it was written in 1968, a lot has taken place. I wish each story could be updated. The author had a great idea in writing this book. He has written about 12 business adventures during the 60s. It would be great for someone to do a current day version of this book with more current business adventures. An updated version of this book should be included in all MBA programs. I really learned a lot about business from this book.
Yeah, more people have read this in the past two months than in the prior forty years. I'm glad as the New Yorker + Finance angle is a good one for me. While reading I found the stories interesting, but didn't once think of them afterwards. Guess that's why I'm not one of the two richest folks in America.
Best chapters:-Texas Gulf Sulphur chapter...
this was interesting, learned a lot about the SEC and was fun to read about how the Kidd Mine guys thought they were being clever enough to get away with what was obviously insider trading.
definitely the funniest chapter of the book.
The stuff about communication via winking is just gold.-"One free bite" ...
most entertaining chapter in the book.
Very interesting stuff about the development of trade secrets law in here.
Nevertheless, it's hard NOT to learn some valuable things about business from reading this book, although note that it is very American-centric.
در این کتاب داستان انسانهایی نوشته شده است که سخت میکوشند و انگیزه تلاش آنها عشق نیست. داستان تلاطمهای بازار بورس، خرسها و گاوها، فرارهای مالیاتی، شکست و موفقیت محصولات تجاری، تبانی شرکتها، کاهش ارزش پول و حتی همکاری بانکهای مرکزی هم جالب است و کشش دارد. میتوان گفت که لازم نیست موضوع همه قصهها تمایل رسیدن به معشوق باشد.البته روایتهای کتاب واقعی هستند و نویسنده خوب تعریف کردن را بلد است.
در این کتاب داستان انسان‌هایی نوشته شده است که سخت می‌کوشند و انگیزه تلاش آنها عشق نیست. داستان تلاطم‌های بازار بورس، خرس‌ها و گاوها، فرارهای مالیاتی، شکست و موفقیت محصولات تجاری، تبانی شرکت‌ها، کاهش ارزش پول و حتی همکاری بانک‌های مرکزی هم جالب است و کشش دارد. می‌توان گفت که لازم نیست موضوع همه قصه‌ها تمایل رسیدن به معشوق باشد.البته روایت‌های کتاب واقعی هستند و نویسنده خوب تعریف کردن را بلد است.
Read this book for the joy of exploring old school style of writing and to experience what good business journalism looks like. Examples are a bit dated, but the storytelling skills of the author make up for it. Author has a unique style of creating a Sherlock Holmes type suspense even while narrating business stories which most people find boring. The book was a bit difficult to read in the beginning, but the style grew on me.
John Brooks tells stories that any business can learn from. Written in detail and entertaining. There are 12 different stories that can be read separately as I knew most of the cases.
This little-remembered collection of New Yorker essays from the 1960s surged into popularity recently when both Bill Gates and Warren Buffet, who, depending on the week or month, are the two richest humans in history, declared it their favorite business book ever.
There are few obvious lessons to be gleaned from the book overall, and the author tries hard to convey a narrative instead of a moral; those are probably the reasons why it may be one of the best business books ever.John Brooks has an obvious affinity for intricate details and the importance of subtle differences.
Interesting to see the mention of this book as a "favorite" of Bill Gates, given to him by Warren Buffet with a strong recommendation.
Article in the Wall St. Journal mentioned it was out of print.
Within days, miraculously back in print, complete with kindle edition (which I purchased) and climbing the best seller lists.
The book's "business adventures" take place in the mid 60's and it was fun to journey back to those days when I could not have cared less about business and finance - provides an interesting perspective after 40 years in business and finance - especially with regard to well paid executives and engineers making an astounding $13k a year!
Few books have the effect of showing you the world in a whole new light.
This book has the answers.What I remember:There are 12 very powerful stories that teach a wealth of knowledge.
I remember the story of the Model E by Ford, which is funny because it was such a failure that we would think they would never bring it back up.
Comments:Even though the stories are very old, they are timeless.
The lessons I learned in this book really showed me a whole new way of looking at how business shapes our society.
The business 'adventures' in this book are all pretty dated - none written later than 1968 - some still a good read, others not. Not sure I understand why the Gates/Buffett quotes of support are so strong
I dont know If I'm in a position right now to 'quote' something, but have to say this is unbelievably good.
When it comes to talking about the financial capital of the world, or the Wall street, there's no one as good as Micheal Lewis.
Well, John Brooks 'might' be as good as Lewis.
Fantastic narratives, some of the stories grip you with suspense, oh yes, the post WW2 era was a roller coaster for the entire world.
Brooks transforms even the simplest of stories, like the one about Xerox Corp., into a perfect Business Lesson.
this book tells us about 12 different stories range from stock market, xerox success story to ford failure story. John Brooks is good at telling stories with detail and well-investigated fact. Recommend for people who want to know how the greatest stock market work, fail and spike,how Ford most proud car model could become their most costly failure..
Dated (written in late 1960s), but still generally applicable. Approachable and straightforward. Not a book for those without an interest/background in finance.
Causos de negócio muito bem contados.Fala de temas atuais até hoje como inovação, informação privilegiada e tributação.
Brooks talks about the Bretton Woods agreement that created the IMF and the World Bank; the Basel-based Bank for International Settlements, which became a sort of club for federal bank presidents; the 'swap network', which I think was made as a short-term fast-and-easy version of IMF loans; the emergence of the dollar as the world's reserve currency; the gold market in London (for when the dollar was pegged to gold); and how the foreign exchange market works.
I knew very little about this stuff before, and Brooks presents it in a fascinating way.After the failure of the gold standard at the beginning of the Great Depression, the big economies came together at Bretton Wood and decided that all of their currencies would be pegged to the dollar instead.
Some chapters are great; some worth skipping My summary goes here: http://ashishb.net/book-summary/book-...
Also that only the employees knew the real story and was able to buy up stock.
Insider trading at the level of thousands of shares is a red flag when purchased directly after a major company strategic event.FiveXerox unknowingly put themselves right in the behind enabling copy-write law infractions.
And that Wall Street is the devils lair.SevenThis appears to be a purposeful lack of communication about price fixing and violating anti trust laws at the executive level of GE.
Bulls will then corner the market by buying up all those floating shares and selling at whatever price they want.
I don't know how he makes this stuff exciting but he sure does!
may not be worth your time...Out of print for over 40 years and recently resurrected(#508 on Amazon eBooks and #76 in paperback-and still a few days out from release) this book is cited by Warren Buffet and Bill Gates as their favorite book on business.
Brooks wrote these essays nearly 50 years ago and you can't help but recall that Buffet and Gates are 83 and 58 respectively.
The frantic efforts to cleanly dissolve the Haupt brokerage firm eerily resonates the start of the Great Recession and the final chapter on international coordination to defend the sterling in the late 60s reminds you of the last few years as well.Still, I can't say this is worth the necessary investment in time.
Absolutely worth reading for anyone with an interest in how the "big leagues" of business, finance and industry work.
Its being out of date is in part of its appeal, though - hearing about the stock ticker when it actually was a "ticker" rattling out printed strips over primitive dedicated modem connections to the NYSE, or listening to the author marvel at a computer "able to read the entire contents of the Manhattan phone book every eight seconds" gives a wonderful sense of historical perspective.
It's not for everyone, and modern business reading audiences won't find it as insightful as others did five decades ago, but it's still a classic that belongs on every business bookshelf.
One blog entry by Bill Gates sort of resurrected this book.The book is dated, and that shows.
The history of IRS will tell you why your company gave you that ESOP.
The story of Texas Gulf Sulfur gives you good insights into insider trading and the moral and economic implications of it.
History of Xerox is truly inspiring.
"A second sort of life" was so slow and boring that I had to skip the chapter.
The book is lengthy, close to 380 pages and could have been easily brought down close to 250.
It's a great book, but not worth the hype.
I read this book since it comes with a reputation of being one of the favourite of Warren Buffet and Bill Gates.
However I must also say that the book has been written in an over detailed manner which makes the reading very insipid rather than interesting.
There are times that one finds the chapters meandering around myriad of unnecessary details and almost gasping with the thought that what's the point out here.
Nonetheless this is a very rich account of corporate diaries circa 1960s and indeed very insightful and a must read.
