https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/263599.The_Berenstain_Bears_Moving_Day
Great bears's book told in flashback to when the family moved into the treehouse.
Moving is necessary and it is one of the worst parts of adulthood.
It's horrible.
I will have to move out of the basement eventually into my own place.
It's exciting to think of and the move part is dreadful.The artwork in this book is some of the best of the series.
I love the winding and precarious paths they show the bears on.
Still, this is a great story and moving is good in that you can set up somewhere you want to be happy in.
The kids loved this book.
A wonderful series by the Berenstain couple, and their son now.
This series has been great for our girls.
This particular book is particularly relevant for our family this year as we have moved into the old farmhouse we spent the last two years fixing up.
The book, as it's title says, follows the bear family as they move from their old comfortable home into a new town with new folks and a new house.
We actually read this on the night we moved in to our house.
At any rate, cannot highly enough recommend this series to any of y’all with young children.
This is a genial story about the Bear family's move from a damp cave in the woods to the iconic treehouse at the end of the sunny dirt road that reads briskly and acknowledges the worries that cross any kids' mind when s/he moves to a new home.
The book appeared in 1981, about the same time that the Bears' "First Time Books" were hitting their creative peak.
Since the two books appeared close together, I see no reason for the discrepancy, and gosh, if I am going to be reading and discussing these books over and over again with my kid, I would appreciate a little consistency.
Not to mention the dreadful fashion choices, especially the mother bear's mob cap and dowdy blue polka-dot dress.
It's almost like the Berenstain Bears got their clothing by raiding the town dump with the rest of the bears.
Clearly they can afford better, since they seem to have enough funds to own and run their own jalopy.If they can't get served at the mall (because they are bears), then they might consider a raid on one of the nicer neighbourhoods on the edge on Bear Country to refresh their wardrobes.
I hear all the bears are doing it these days.
THE POINT: To teach kids that moving from one town to another is OK an that it happens all the time and that there's nothing to be afraid of etc.
(It's a little dated in that respect though inasmuch as I've never seen neighborhood families come out of the woodwork to greet someone that just moved in down the block.
Or maybe that just more "naïvely quaint" than it is "dated".) As far as children's stories go though, I'm sure this is one that gets the job done.THE UNFORTUNATE SUB-TEXT: They're moving because Papa Bear chopped down all the trees to make his crappy furniture and Mama Bear over-farmed the soil (probably with corn, I couldn't be sure).
Where the heck did that bird come from that Mama bear brought to the new house? Did they kill it and eat it? My dad killed out fish Napoleon the first night in our new house. He's dead now, and a douche ghost too.
About the Author Stan and Jan Berenstain were both born in 1923 in Philadelphia.
They didn't know each other as children, but met later at school, at the Philadelphia College of Art.
During World War II, Stan was a medical assistant in the Army, and Jan worked in an airplane factory.
It was about a family of bears, who later became known as the "Berenstain Bears".
Over 50 children's books later, Stan and Jan still plan all of their books together -- both write the stories, and both write the pictures.
This was my favorite book I picked this week for a couple of reasons.
First of all, I loved The Berenstain Bears when I was little so I loved reading their books again.
Secondly, I loved the message in the book.
The book described the family moving, and how sad brother bear was.
I could relate to this because I had to move from Missouri to Colorado and I was very sad.
So in other words, I was able to make connections with this book.
Lastly, I loved the vocabulary in the book, it had a lot of imagery.
For example, "dripped and trickled." Great book!
Moving day tells the story that many of your students will be able to relate to and that is when a family is uprooted and moves to a new community.
In the end of the book it is realized that everything works out and the family is quite comfortable in their new treehouse.In a classroom this book could be read if a new student moves to your town and is placed in your classroom.
If you are worried about the reading making the new student uncomfortable you could read the book before they arrive.
I think there's a very good reason that this book series has spanned decades and maintained popularity.
It gives children the chance to think on their own and make their own choices for behaviors that carry over into their adult lives.
Many of these issues will be ones that will persist through their lives, just on different levels of course.Growing up we did a lot of moving from apartment to apartment, and in college I was used to moving every year.
I liked seeing some situations relate to what you can expect every time.
These books are great.
My mother read this book to my brother and I as we were about to move from Nebraska to Illinois.
These books can be very helpful for children to relate to all the different situations that are going on in their lives.
Another good thing is that there are so many of these books, that if you have a child that really likes them they can continue to read them for a long time.
These books were some of my favorite growing up, and I remember wanting to read as many as I could get my hands on.
These are wonderful books that can help kids get through tough situations in their lives.

Moving day can be an exciting and scary day for a young cub and a young child. This would be a wonderful book to share with a child before they move themselves. It does well explaining how things will be the same in one way, their items will all be going with them. And how it will be different in others, they won't be right next to the same friends and neighbors. After reading about this moving adventure the Berenstain Bear's have it might encourage children to become excited about their own new journey.
This is a really cute and popular children's book. It is about the Bear family moving from the mountains to the valley and Brother Bear is worried at first because the cave is all he has ever known. Will he like the new place? I could use this book if a student of mine is about to move away and is a little nervous about it. I could also use this book in Science to talk about different regions and landforms.
I really like these stories from when Brother Bear was just Small Bear (was his name change confusing to him?) Here we see their first home, and what life was like when the family was just the three of them. I love the mountains and how freely Brother Bear was allowed to play before he grew up enough to become all responsible and go to school. This is a great book about moving and one that was fun to read.
This book can help students that are moving away and going to attend another school. Most of my placement classrooms has a students that is moving away or no longer going to attend the school. This is a great way to give understanding to other classmates and help ease the anxiety for the student that is moving away. This can be read during a morning meeting and followed by an activity, having students write a farewell card for the classmate that is leaving.
This is a classic Berenstain Bears book. I thorougly enjoyed it. No moral, just life. I WAS a little surprised at the open mention of chopping down all the trees--but then again, this IS a classic (aka old book) and wasn't written during a time of environmental awareness as much. I'm going to hope that their stop polluting book makes up for it. :)
A very cute and simple story that deals with moving. I read this when I was just a cub myself, back when any Berenstain Bears book was my favorite book- it's fun now to revisit these as a children's librarian :) It must be the first adventure because it is the story of the family moving into their magnificent pink treehouse!
This book's lack of dialog is a departure from the rest of the series and threatens to alienate longtime readers who may be afraid they've stumbled upon the equivalent of a cold French art film on paper. But Stan Berenstain's love for his characters shines through in the narration despite the sparseness. The emotional apex of the series.
Brother Bear is very used to the cave that his family live in so he is a bit worried when Mama and Papa Bear decide that it is time to leave the mountains and move into the big valley. Brother is sad to say goodbye to his old friends but he can look forward to a big new treehouse and lots of cubs to play with.
Read on a marathon BB book day in Austin. Logan chose to read a whole group of them, including this one.This is an early story in the Bears' family history, when they first moved to Bear Country and Brother was an only child.They gave up their cave and moved to a tree house. Will Brother like his new surroundings? The cave is all he's ever known. . .
This is more of a project book. Goal: In 30 pages or less, tell kids that moving to a new house, town, or neighborhood is going to be alright. The End. I suppose if you just need a jump start for a moving discussion this could get you there, but there's not much of the character or humor that we usually associate with Berenstain Bears here and not much fun either.
Their stuff is all packed!Here comes the truck!Let's move with the BearsAnd wish them good luck.Before Sister was born, the Bears lived in a cave and they moved to the treehouse they live in now. It talks about how you may leave things behind but you'll make new friends and memories at your new house.
Most ezzel jól belerondítottam az idei olvasási képbe, meg abba is, hogy nem fogok leporellókat olvasni, de ez olyan aranyosnak tűnt… És az is. Persze álomvilág, hogy egy költözés ilyen egyszerű lenne, de amúgy értelmes, aranyos, és szép képek vannak benne. Kiskoromban ezután biztos egyfolytában ilyen tree-house-okat rajzoltam, terveztem volna. :)
Wow. I don't remember this book being quite so boring when I was a kid. Some seriously text-heavy pages in this one, and Mini-Me lost interest before the end. I'm sure we might both appreciate it differently if we were indeed moving.
It was a really good book. It had really good illustrations, great characters and a good storyline. I read this book in a long time. I really enjoyed reading Berenstain Bears books. I'd recommend this book to Berenstain Bears fans.
I liked this book cause when we move you should be happy cause God is right there with you! And God knows where ever you move and how it will turn out. Trust God and he will tell you in your prays where you should go I life!
The narrative skills that kids gain as they follow this adorable family of bears through their adventures. Each books covers a different adventure and is easily relative to kids' lives. They are a little long for the extremely young children, but 4 and 5 should be appropriate.
Cute book about moving I've read this book before when I was a kid, but with a potential move ahead for my husband and myself, I decided to read it again. Cute- if only moving was that easy!
Loved it! Another favourite - I was fond of so many of these. Read them slightly out of order too, as well as being a huge fan of the TV series, so the books pre-move and pre-Sister Bear were always a bit strange.
