https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1201301.To_the_Devil_a_Daughter_Molly_Fountain_1_
From the period that Wheatley wrote this, the content was probably quite acceptable; unfortunately, in this time, I found it very difficult to follow along with the events that were just thrown out as "fact" without any real backing to them.There were some very interesting and tense moments (and a great scene at the end!); however, the story just was very difficult for me to get emotionally involved in, and I failed to make an attachment to any of the major characters.
I DID enjoy Molly, but she ended up "disappearing" from the novel for a rather extended period of time, only to come back again at the end.I gave TO THE DEVIL A DAUGHTER three stars, taking into account the time it was originally written in.*I won a copy of TO THE DEVIL A DAUGHTER from GoodReads First Reads Giveaway.*
Disappointing, as I remembered reading Wheatley when I was a kid & finding it scary fun.
But it's awful writing, with lapses into reactionary ranting and dialogue which is truly risible.
The idea that a writer can simply put down as literally Satanic everything he finds dangerous or distasteful is worth thinking about, though.
Wheatley is rightly afraid of totalitarianism, but foolishly sees no evil - in fact, sees the ultimate good - in the English class system.
Nobody could take his ravings seriously because his reactionary ideology dates him so terribly, and his writing isn't good enough to earn him the pardon which Yeats promised Paul Claudel.
The "Black Magic" novels do expect the reader to accept for the purposes of enjoying the stories, that there exist some sort of parallel Satanic underground.
Where both elements meet and where I think Dennis Wheatley disappoints, in this as in the other Black Magic novels, is in his conclusions, his inevitable very happy endings.
Time and again, and "To the Devil a Daughter" is no exception, I find Dennis Wheatley ending his novels with a kind of maybe divinely orchestrated "Big Bang".
A horror classic from the days when only the upper classes were depicted to engage in activity of merit and excitement. This can only be read as a period piece and since I collect classic supernatural horror, it was on my reading list. Not recommended as a gripping read, but rather an historical legacy.
To the Devil A Daughter (1953) in which a Mad-Scientist Communistic Satanist attempts to animate deadly homunculi with captured souls in order to destroy democracy.
This was plain awful, even by Wheatley standards. Not even the anachronistic sexism, racism and commie-baiting was remotely interesting this time. It was just bad and took me ages to finish. This must be one of the few instances where the later film adaptation was actually way better.
The central mystery of the story -- what is going on with the odd young English woman in a villa in Nice, France -- is largely telegraphed by the book's title, though we are nearly a third of the way through the story before things take a turn from the mundane to the fantastic, and all the vague talk of occultism and conspiracy comes to the fore.
Plus, it would have been more entertaining if he followed the Ann Radcliffe school of suspense and kept the mystery going longer.
We also learn that girls' schools can be places of sin where sexual experimentation among the girls can provide an ingress for the devil's possessory powers.
So in a mere couple of pages we learn that non-exclusive, non-hetero, non-binary, non-missionary sex is the devil's work and disfavored political theory is the equivalent of sin.
If one if going to incorporate their own biases into their writings, at least do it subtly and not through the characters lecturing the reader.
To the Devil - a Daughter, written in 1953, is everything you could ask for in a Dennis Wheatley novel.
It has wicked devil-worshippers, outrageous conspiracies, and some amusingly lurid descriptions of satanic rituals.
A businessman makes a deal with a satanic clergymen, and has his daughter Christina baptised into Satan’s church.
The fact that Wheatley took this stuff seriously just makes it even more enjoyable.
The movie doesn’t follow the plot of the book very closely at all, but it’s also great fun in its own way.
Sort of like saying "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone" was "Hedwig the Owl #1".
And Christina acts SLIGHTLY naughty when the sun goes down, so of course she's possessed by the devil.
If that's being possessed by Satan, then I'm in big trouble.
And when a character in this book says, "I'd better tell you my story from the beginning" you know you'd better buckle up, because they aren't going to leave out any detail.
And where did Christina's father get the ape he used to guard his house?
Rent-a-ape?
Typical Dennis Wheatley satanism story, lots of details of satanic rituals, heroic good guys, evil satanists.
My problem with Wheatley's writing is that it always feels slightly padded out, there's an awful lot of dialogue with characters describing what they're going to do & what they've done & what's going on, lots of telling, not showing.
There are some good set-pieces such as what the villain has hidden in a crypt & an exciting climax too, but it'll be a little while before I pick up another book by this author.Incidentally, my wife was reading another famous Dennis Wheatley satanism book, The Devil Rides Out, having loved the movie version, & found the same problems with narrative pace, lots of explaining, not a whole lot of action, she's now more or less given up with it.
Not that we any of these characters having to work hard for a living, their jobs being rather easy for the amount of money they appear to have.Actually, this scene rather shows how much in common the Count and John have, since they are both idle, selfish rich people who feel the world owes them a living, and it is a bit rich to criticise the Satanists for their sexual freedom when John Fountain is himself a bit of a ladies’ man.The nature of Satanism portrayed here is also subject to a lot of Wheatley’s political biases.

I read this in my teens, when I read everything in the local library that was SF or fantasy. (not enough.)Garbage.
Read as a teenager. Off it's head, completely mad and authored by someone with dodgy Right wing autocratic and aristocratic sympathies. What a ripping yarn though!
With insights into the rituals and schemes of the Occult, Wheatley crafts a tale of diabolical tension that is both a gripping thriller and disturbing horror story.
The final scenes in the Canon's crypt and the Cave of Bats are superbly realised, evoking strong images of the dark forces and those that dabble in them.'To the Devil a Daughter' is a classic and a masterpiece of the horror and thriller genres and, particularly when you consider how shocking its subject matter and imagery would have been at the time of publication, proves why Wheatley's occult works have become the most famous of his legacy.
Three stars as the plot was quite enjoyable...however I do find Wheatley's novels partly occult fiction and part right wing narrative...Wheatley manages to get in a discourse on the evils of socialism in pretty quickly in this book.And such characterisation....the characters are somewhat like wodehouse creations without the charm..however the tale of possession and satanic ritual has some charm it's just this has dated badly...what wheatley would have thought of the current crop of UK politicians we can but guess...but I'm thinking he wouldn't have been a fan of Corbyn...
I loved The Devil Rides Out, and I bet Dennis Wheatley has written many other top class books, sadly for me To the Devil, a Daughter had nothing to keep the pace of the story moving. It seemed as though I was reading a James Bond book which had been written by Ian Fleming but with out an inch of action, murder, twists and so on.All was there but for me it seemed flat, boring and dull.No book is read more than halfway; and is still getting no where, so I bailed out halfway.
I was 14 when I read this book and rated it as 'A Very Good Read'. A real scary under the bedclothes type of book but I'm not sure what I would think of it now.
I wanted to give this 3.5 stars, because it ain't really worth 4.
But it deserves better than 3, so I chose to round up.
Honestly, you can't go past Dennis Wheatley for guilty pleasure.
He's the granddaddy of page turners, the master of foot-to-the-floor action.
Excuse the risible dialogue, because some of the prose is actually quite good.
Three cheers for Johnny, an insufferable Mummy's boy who proves himself a solid bit of good old-fashioned English manhood by the end of the book.
This book has more faults than the shaky earthquake zone I live on top of, but I loved it.
I first heard of English writer Dennis Wheatley when I saw him listed in a book I'd read by horror James Herbert.
In fact, as I checked out the book further, I wasn't surprised to discover that it was turned into a Hammer movie starring Richard Widmark, Christopher Lee and Natasha Kinski.
The story line is quite different from that of the book and it appears that Wheatley was so upset by the production that he refused to let Hammer make any more movies out of his books.
Being an English major, I've read numerous things like this through the years, but of late, I've grown more accustomed to today's authors that write fast paced stories with our ADHD society in mind.
The story was interesting enough that I kept going back to it, but not fast paced or gripping enough that I could read more than a chapter or two at a time.
I'd like to read a couple more things by Wheatley at some point in time, but when I do, I'll know what I'm getting into.
A good solid page turner, a quick pace suspense and interest. Well worth it
Very good if seemingly old fashioned now
But every evening, as darkness fell, Christina changed amazingly.
Dark, demonic power rose inside her and threatened all around her.
I do think that I remember reading somewhere that this particular novel was made into a Hammer Films movie sometime in the 1970s along with another one or two of Dennis Wheatley's novels.Anyway, I think that I will give this book a B+!
I did enjoy the premise of the novel and found that there were parts that moved along quite quickly.
There were a lot of interesting asides in the book, in particular the repetition that just because someone was a relatively successful writer of fiction did not mean that they earned very much money, (when compared with say barristers!).
But it was full of interesting twists and turns and I was pleased to see that despite being 50s pulp it was the heroine who saved the day and destroyed the occultists and not the men (especially as she had been forgotten about for the past 100 pages!) It was also a little disappointing that there were not more conversations with the girl who was possessed.
It wasn't the most eloquently written book but I did like it a lot and would definitely recommend it.
Then the serious occult elements come into play.
All the tropes are found throughout - the damsel in peril, the handsome young man that wants to protect her, the evil Satanist and his henchmen, and the knowledgeable expert in the occult underground.
All this is played out in an upper middle class backdrop that shouts volumes as to Wheatley's background and outlook on the post war world.Most of the language (Mumsie?) and scenarios are pretty dated now, but they have a charm of a time frozen in aspic and, even though Wheatley's prose is hardly ascetic, he does know how to write a thriller than rattles along to escapist oblivion.
This book is a little dated but I grew up watching old horror movies with my dad so it didn't bug me much and the occult side of things was interesting, it kind of reminded me of a tamer version of the omen.
There is a lot of characters talking and thinking about things instead of showing them though and the book was rather slow paced.
Overall it was quite a good read and I would recommend it for people who like a bit of old fashioned horror, but nice horror where there is no swearing and its not too scary/violent, and where characters say funny old fashioned things like 'stop telling taradiddles!'.
This was much harder going than was The Devil Rides Out. Or maybe it was too much of the same thing, one book after the other.
It took me a month to work my way through it and much of it felt like a slog.
Too much running backwards and forwards between locations - I felt like I was reading a novelization of a computer role playing game.The sense of 'The Famous Five for adults' was pervasive again - everyone is so nice to the nice people and utterly beastly to the beasts.
And the little people?
I have just one word for this: pulp. It wasn't very well-edited, and it certainly wasn't well-written. This is definitely an example of lowest-common-denominator 1950s grocery store paperback trash. Still, it was a quick read, and I don't think it hurt me too much. It was at least somewhat amusing, and I did kinda like the neon-pentacle scene. I never would have read it, and I certainly wouldn't have finished it, had it not been for the fact it was lent to me. I'm just glad that it's done.
