https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/341735.Replay
To see a world in a grain of sandAnd a heaven in a wild flower,Hold infinity in the palm of your hand,And eternity in an hour.Every night and every mornSome to misery are born,Every morn and every nightSome are born to sweet delight.Some are born to sweet delight,Some are born to endless night.God appears, and God is light,To those poor souls who dwell in night;But does a human form displayTo those who dwell in realms of day.All poetic excerpts in this review are from Auguries of Innocence by W
If this phenomenon happened to me today I would be waking up in 1989I’d be 22 years old, almost finished with college and already I’m starting to think about things I would do different.
(Just in case, covering my own future bets, I looked up the Derby winner in 1989...Sunday Silence.) Now I stated earlier, rather cavalierly, that Winston remembers his entire life for the next twenty-five years, but of course memory is faulty, and he continues to be amazed at the number of details he has forgotten about his personal life and how fuzzy he is about world events.
This book crushed me. It sparked such a deep feeling of loss and regret in me. Made me examine my own life, my own decisions, missteps and regrets and wasted time and opportunities. Life is short, and this book will remind you of that. It will remind you of lost loves and what could have been. It will remind you that life should be lived to the fullest, that you shouldn't ever waste a single day. It will teach you about true loneliness. And finally, it will teach you about acceptance. I loved it.
The main character, 43-year-old Jeff Winston has a heart attack and dies, only to wake up in his college dorm room 25 years earlier with his current memories intact.
He "replays" his life several times throughout the book trying to correct the mistakes of his "previous" lives.
After the second "replay", I got tired of reading about Winston's miserable life and sexual escapades and wished he would just die and stay that way.
There is a message in the story -- life is short, so live it to the fullest.
The preachy tone of the story and the characters' constant self-indulgence left a bad taste in my mouth.
I never had a problem with similar character flaws in other stories where someone is gifted youth.
But, Oscar Wilde,  The Picture of Dorian Gray, and Nathaniel Hawthorne,  Dr. Heidegger's Experiment never expected me to admire those characters.I'm going with it's all a dream within a dream.
And, I appreciate the point made by Welwyn Wilton in a comment on her review.One of the things I believe is that a novel is written by both the author and the reader, who brings to the novel whatever views or worries or perceptions s/he/they has.
5.0 stars. I did not go into this book with high expectations, despite the numerous awards this book was nominated for and won. Well I just finished it and I ABSOLUTELY LOVED IT!!! Calling it the best "time travel" novel ever does not adequately explain the emotional depth of the novel. This was an incredibly well-written, extremely well plotted novel that is at times both gut-wrenching and uplifting. HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!! Nominee: Arthur C. Clarke Award for Best Science Fiction NovelNominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction NovelWinner: World Fantasy Award for Best Novel
There was a period of time where I made myself think through what I wanted, realistically, and how to achieve them, ultimately.
I couldn't remember what I'd worked out before, my "realistic" goals.
He works his way through money, sex, children, nihilism, and it turns out that he keeps dying at the same time but wakes up older and older, skipping at first days then years ahead.
He didn't suddenly figure stuff out or have circumstances that ridiculously fell into place for good or ill, no more than you can kinda reasonably expect if you had future knowledge.
I'm not sure how to review this book but I know it will stay with me for a long time...
I'm a total sucker for time-travel novels, and Replay is a dam clever one filled with unexpected twists and traumatic experiences.After a fatal heart attack at age 43, Jeff Winston wakes up baffled to learn he is not dead, but a young college student again back in 1963, (no spoiler here) and as he begins to relive his life over and over and over again, he becomes a bit more prepared and curious each time.
Life Is So Short!
I would like to be surprised in every book I read, excited by a beautiful turn of phrase, startled by a concept, taken to a new place in my own mind.
Eventually, and this may be a spoiler, though I do think it is predictable (but if you haven't read the book maybe you shouldn't read from here: he finds a woman who is a replayer too.
End of spoiler.So, to me it is a total mystery why this book won the world fantasy award.
With a setup that recalls Groundhog Day and Back to the Future II (a middle-aged man, Jeff, relives his life from age 18 to his "death" at 43 over and over, able to change things each time but never escaping the loop; going back in time gives him a chance to make a fortune betting on horse races), Replay promises to be a fun sci-fi wish fulfillment story, but winds up something else entirely, a wistful meditation on the relentless passage of time and the regrets we all carry about the choices we didn't make and the risks we didn't take.Don't go into this looking for a hard SF exploration of how or why Jeff is time traveling, because that isn't this book.
The main character, a middle aged man with a regular job and stuck in a lackluster marriage, gets to go back to his younger body while retaining all the knowledge and wisdom he accumulated during the years.
Aside from the "replay" aspect, the novel is strong in terms of plot, character development and writing.
Comparing it to another similar book I've read recently,  The Fifteen Lives of Harry August , I definitely like  Replay  better, both in terms of style and the approach to time travel.
It's a shame that REPLAY by Ken Grimwood is not more well known. The writing and story are stellar, and this book is still one of my all time favorites.
The key to the novel is to be found in the quote Grimwood atributes to Plato (and Goodreads to Socrates) : 'The unexamined life is not worth living' So: it doesn't really matter if we get several chances to get the answer right like Jeff, or one like everybody else on this planet.
Another point I loved about the book and its message is that having a companion along the way is every bit as important as wisdom or fortune.After chasing money, fame, sex, drugs, family life, debauchery, political involvement, scientific enquiries, solitary meditation, stoic resignation, Jeff will hopefully end this quest with some answers.
Opportunities missed, meetings passed mean that necessarily there is a newness to the life he leads even in amidst the same-old-same-old.After a while, there is the added frisson of a romance that spans the lives as Jeff encounters another person undergoing the same horror/excitement, (and it is sometimes a joy and sometimes deathly; the groundhog day stuggle writ large) and then the two of them together encounter a third who, instead of seeking ways in which he can improve the lot of the world, uses his re-life for murder and mayhem.I rally loved the book and the tension and sadness inherent in the plot.
While Murry in Ground Hog Day relives the same day, Jeff is reliving 25 years.I won't go into what happens in his lives as that is the point and I think most will enjoy reading this book.
The writer's politics will show up and the book's conclusion is a bit...subjective.
The book doesn't get preachy it simply tells a story where the writer's idea/view point are assumed to be fact.
So whether you will be convinced of anything or not the book tells a good story and I think you'll enjoy it.
Rather than jumping in a machine and galivanting into the future to romp with the Eloi, Grimwood has his hero Jeff die one chill October evening in 1988.
With this premise Grimwood has tapped into one of the most fundamental wishes of humankind: the desire to do things differently now that you know how it will play out.
Jeff isn't perfect, which makes him more fun.
From a fantastic premise through a great follow-through, Ken Grimwood has crafted a story that will stand the test of time, even if it's on repeat.
Replay one of most interesting and compelling science fiction novels I've ever read. It's cleverness is only exceeded by the book's probing insights into love, values and the human spirit. Replay is a page turner, so be prepared to miss meals and train stops.
Right from the back of the book: “As exciting as ‘Back to the Future’, As romantic as ‘Peggy Sue Got Married’, a phenomenal time-tripping adventure.” Well, in the spirit of a little ‘time-tripping’ let me bring these comparisons slightly up to date; Replay certainly has a quaint combination of elements from the aforementioned films, but it most resembles ‘Groundhog Day’. Any fan of the three previously mentioned films would find it difficult to be disappointed by Replay. Beginning with the first
Jeff suddenly comes to, and after a short time of trying to piece together what the hell has just happened, he’s rather shocked to discover he’s now back in 1963, at Emory University, eighteen years old and still possessing all the knowledge of his previous life and world events.
These questions are enough to make him start doubting himself, but the most devastating event occurs when he goes to meet Linda, his former wife, at the same time and place he did in his original life, but this doesn’t work out so well, he’s too full of himself and his intimate knowledge of her (as a total stranger) freaks her out and chases her off.
5+ life affirming StarsReplay is winner of World Fantasy Award for Best Novel (1988)I absolutely loved this mesmerising book with it's unexpected twists, beautiful romance, intelligent plot and incandescent characters.
Jeff has the advantage he needs to enjoy this new life and the freedom to explores his potential to the fullest and make his dreams and fantasies come true with the exuberance of youth and the knowledge of an adult.
This time travel aspect is a double edged sword and, along the way, Jeff learns a valuable lesson about life, love, human nature and what or who gives his life meaning.
maybe that's why this book didn't become an "international sensation" like the DaVinci Code.One thing about "Replay" which is either positive or negative, depending on who you are, is that it is closely tied to American sports, popular culture, and political events from 1963 to 1988.
(No offense to Dustin, but how many great actors can we name from 100+ years ago?) I'm hoping that readers from other places and other time periods will be able to enjoy the thought-provoking themes of the book while using context clues to fill in their mental question marks on names/places/events.
It is a fantasy about Jeff Winston, a middle-age man with a marriage that has turned sour.
The story is sort of reminiscent of Groundhog Day, but instead of reliving a single day over and over, Jeff relives many years of his life, again and again.With each replay of Jeff's life, he takes a different approach, and learns important lessons.
Should he try to prevent catastrophes?
Should he try to prevent the assassination of President Kennedy?
Should he try to meet with his "future wife" under a different set of circumstances?
No scientific explanations are given, even though Jeff wants to consult with scientists for answers.
Jeff Winston, age 43, dies in 1988 at the start of this book.
Ahead lies the chance to relive his life, change the things that went wrong, all with the future knowledge of what he has lived throughout the years.
What’s the point in replaying if he can’t make anything count or change?
As the book goes on, you get a frightening feeling of oppression by reading Jeff’s lives.
The book doesn't try to explain why Jeff is replaying or if there is or isn't an almighty force who is doing this to him.
Jeff wonders why it’s happening at first, but there’s not much point in worrying when he can’t do anything.

There are no words in the barrel of my always-expanding vernacular that I could dispatch to properly articulate exactly how much I loved this novel. I am FLOORED! The sadly now deceased Ken Grimwood had a knack for boundless imagination.  Replay  may have just become my favorite book of all time, so I'll try and specify why in an extensive lovefest that'll soon follow. But for now...I have to finalize a review for one recently read novel I've neglected—Luke, I haven't forgotten you.
Replay: Imagine reliving your prime years over and overOriginally posted at Fantasy LiteratureReplay is a story that every reader can empathize with.
The pacing of the story is well-handled, as Jeff goes through numerous iterations of his prime years, each time with his previous memories intact, always taking a different approach and focus to his life.
Initially he pursues the most sexually-appealing women his wealth can attract, but later he begins a new family, courts his first wife again, approaches his college sweetheart, and finally he meets a woman named Patricia who is also going through the same replay cycle.
What happens when they run out of time?It’s a fascinating story with a great premise: what would you do if you could live your life again?
The replays themselves are left mysterious and unexplained, and the rules are inconsistent: in his first replay, Jeff attempts to stop JFK’s assassination and fails (more on that below), thus realizing he can’t affect history (even as he makes millions from bets and investments); yet later, when he goes public about the replays in order to find answers, the consequences are horrific and history is altered in nightmarish ways.
Ok, so I'm a time travel novel addict.
This is my tenth in a little over two years and I'm still on the lookout for more!
Still, it's pacy, there are plenty twists and, like all books of this genre, it does make you think about how you're spending your time!
I'm not over keen on the ending though - I thing the author could have taken a chance on something a little less 'safe'.
Ovo je jedna divna knjiga koju preporučam svima :)
At one point, pretty early on in the novel, Jeff literally calls a woman "a machine made for fucking."NO.You just don't say that, ever, with the possible exception of writing (bad) erotic fiction.Oh, and then he gives that character a huge bag of money because he's breaking up with her, and she pity fucks him, because "for $250,000 you deserve it." What??But this isn't just poor writing.
Indeed, it should be a laudable thing when I inform you that, aside from Jeff, almost every other character of note in this book is a woman.
Probably I'm not the only one who wonders, what would I do if I got the chance to re-live my life.
Would I try to fix the mistakes I believe I did?
Would I try to explore a totally different path?
(I'm actually glad that I read King's 22-11-63 BEFORE this one, otherwise I probably wouldn't have enjoyed it that much, seeing how it's main idea plays a certain role here as well)
