https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6497871-stella-dallas
4.5 StarsI never saw the old movie 'Stella Dallas' but while I was reading the book, I thought, "Betty Davis would've nailed this!" I was a little disappointed on looking it up to see that Barbara Stanwyck played Stella, but in all fairness she was probably ok (I need to watch it and see).Anyway!
So when Laurel has the one-time chance for popularity, Stella very nearly ruins Laurel's chances...I'm not saying any more, but you really must read it and see for yourself what she does, you can't help but love Stella even with all her foibles.
Despite being written by a woman and focused on female characters, Stella Dallas is likely considered a pre- (or perhaps proto-) feminist novel.
Laurel is as much of an enigma to the reader as to her fellow characters, presented simply as a 'diamond in the rough' waiting quietly to be polished by Helen's financial (and by extension, moral) superiority.
Stella and Laurel are like best friends, partners in their troubles, though they seem to have little in common besides manicures, poverty and Stephen Dallas, Laurel's father and Stella's ex-to-be.
Perhaps my impression of this book is coloured by my own alliance with my mother, but Laurel's insistence on standing by Stella brought me to tears.
I had no idea what I would find that day, but it turned out it would be the splashy, neon, Baby Sitter's Club-looking edition of the 1923 book Stella Dallas.
Unfortunately it seems Stella wasn't that interested in being a mother, and wants to pursue the fun about town she had before she married Stephen.The couple realizes their incompatibility, and while Stella remains hopeful of the future, Stephen pulls the escape hatch.
Unfortunately, Laurel has an oddly dressed, brassy, lower class ball and chain holding her to the ground, and its name is Stella.This book, much like Mildred Pierce, involves a mother's obsession with doing right by her daughter.
She still wants better, but this time around, she wants better for her daughter.The heart of the story is Stella’s heart, which is clearly evident in the 1937 film adaptation starting Barbara Stanwyck.
In the novel, the central theme gets lost in the shuffle.Many chapters of the novel are consumed with Mrs. Morrison, a woman who is obviously not the title character.
Mrs. Morrison is important, and she is featured in the movie, but not nearly as much as she is written about in the original.
All I will say is that the ending of the film differs drastically from the ending of Prouty’s original, and this change is infinitely better.
I really enjoyed the movie, and searched out the book to see what additional insight it might add to the story.
But this is one of the few instances that I'd say the movie stands strong alone - it doesn't need the book to add anything (and that's largely due to the strong performance of Barbara Stanwyk).
The book is just as strong without the movie, but there's no significant additional storyline.
As a huge fan of books turned to movies - since I was born too late to read them first - I'm glad I searched it out.
I'd only ever heard of STELLA DALLAS the Barbara Stanwyck movie, but the book had a good beginning, so I picked it up. Quite the page-turner, I thought. Prouty does a great job making all the characters sympathetic.In a nutshell, this is the story of a failed, mismatched marriage, sacrificial love, and the complicated connections between women. Out of print, I suspect, so check your local library.
The Femmes Fatales series on Feminist Press delivers yet again. If you love dysfunctional mother/daughter melodramatic potboilers, this one is for you. It would make a great companion piece to Mildred Pierce.
This was one of the few books my mother owned when I was growing up.The story of sacrificing her happiness for the sake of daughter, the working-class heroine Stella, and the wealthy widow who becomes the surrogate mother of Stella's daughter.
gorgeous, corny tearjerker about noble mother (Stella) who sacrifices herself for her daughter's happiness.
One of the saddest and most beautiful stories I've ever read, Stella Dallas is the story of a mother's unselfish love and wish for the very best for her daughter.
Living in a snobbish community, pretty, ambitious, young Stella never had any idea but that she deserved the best that life had to give.
She had access to it when she married Stephen Dallas, a young man from a good family name.
But her love for"Lollie" grew, and Stella sacrificed everything so that Lollie could have the life Stella knew she deserved.
A lovely, layered story. The Barbara Stanwyck movie pays great homage to the book, which tells the story in a slightly different way. Though they differ in approach, the book and movie complement the basic story.
A woman from the wrong side of the tracks marries a man from the right side.
In some ways she learns what he teaches, but when it comes to flirting with the men she doesn't see anything wrong.
After the birth of their daughter, Stephen has had enough of Stella's ways so he moves out but doesn't divorce her.
When she does see how things are, she divorces Stephen knowing that he will marry a woman he has known from before he met Stella, a woman who will be an asset to Laurel.

Nao gostei muito.
Tem um sujeito, stephen, que pertence a uma familia rica e tradicional, apaixonado pela linda e doce helen.
O pai dele se mata, perdem a fortuna, e ele, envergonhado com a sua situacao, desiste de casar com a sua amada helen, e desposa a stella do titulo, que se torna dallas.
Ela eh vulgar e pouco instruida, e depois do nascmento da filha, laurel, vive separada do marido, apesar de continuarem oficialmente casados.
Stephen recupera seu dinheiro e tem condicoes de bancar uma vida confortavel a esposa e filha.
Quem escreveu o livro certamente acredita que quem nasceu na plebe nao chega a dama,.
I pulle this off a shelf in a summer cottage- didn't have high hopes for it, but I ended up liking it. It's an unashamed tearjerker and the plot of the self-sacrificing mother has been run into the ground since, but this is a good piece of work. The characters are believable enough and the writing style is very good. This is a book for a late afternoon when you want to relax and have a little cry- the ending still packs an emotional punch.
Cult classic from 1923, this book has been re-incarnated into many visual forms, beginning with a silent film in 25, numerous plays, radio soap-opera, notorious King Vidor 37 version with Barbara Stanwyck and the loosely translated Stella with Bette Midler in 91. A teary lesson in motherhood that also sparks an interesting look at the construction of class through fashion in the 20s and 30s, I highly reccommend!
Heavy on the melodrama; I can see Shelley Winters as Stella. Her "sacrifice" is really the end result of her machinations pre-marriage and ongoing through her relationship with her daughter. Stella's end may be a tearjerker to some and a "feminist" clarion call to others. Neither of those "lenses" really are appropriate. The literary equivalent of a "c" movie... 3 stars.
so classic i loved it!
For fans of melodrama with a feminist twist.
