https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/134018.The_Complete_Poetry_and_Selected_Prose
The book includes letters (many written in rhyming-verse), elegies, Essays of various things, prose of various things, and naturally sermons which are his strongest works (most of them from late in his life including his magnum opus Death's Duell[sic].
I can't say much more right now but if I can think of more I will add it, but I will say that if you consider yourself a serious reader of English literature don't skip out on John Donne!
Read for class.
Here's where I started, as a Freshman at Amherst College, an enthusiasm for verse I did not entirely comprehend; a classmate of mine, Schuyler Pardee, and I went to our wonderful professor, G Armour Craig, with a proposal: Could we perhaps translate Donne for modern students?
When I got to U MN grad school, I took Leonard Unger's 17C English Poets seminar, wherein we read Donne and his heirs.
In grad school, another of Leonard Unger's students was advanced, because he flattered a different, declining professor, quoted him verbatim to his face on his Ph.D. orals.
I've read some of his meditations and sonnets and sermons but remember mostly just the famous stuff; Meditation XVII, "The Canonization" and "Hymn to God, My God, in my Sickness" to name a few.
I particularly like the Holy Sonnets.
I'm a big fan of 17th century poetry in general but of all poetry, ever, Donne has written some of the best.
His poems are inventive with their imagery and intensely personal, though they remain true to metrical forms.
Personally I think free verse has made everyone think they can be a poet by simply emoting in incomplete sentences.
John Donne's poetry is fantastcally beautiful. I could live for days in the worlds his words create in my mind. The depths of emotion Donne has made me feel, and the questions about myself, religion, love, and loss he has forced me to ask, are the most basic, yet also the most profound. Donne is much more than his quotable texts--look beyond the island and you will find the man.
My favorite poet. His words are a sweet breath released after a turbulent day. He's witty and wise and romantic and perfect.
A poet for all time in the English-Refined Celtic tradition. Never disappoints.
When I was thirteen, I wanted two things for Christmas: John Donne's poetry and a bottle of Chantilly cologne; my eldest brother, Dick, gave me both. The Chantilly is long gone, but the book has been by my side and within reach all my life wherever I have lived and traveled. I know it's heretical, but I love Donne's poetry more than Shakespeare's Sonnets. There are many editions of Donne, but I love this 1952 Modern Library for its preservation of Donne's 17th century spelling and for Michael Coffin's introduction. I didn't put a "finished" date because I've never stopped.
(And reading his prose, which often speaks on topics concerning women, somehow doesn't clarify but only complicates the issue.) I have to admit grinning though at his epigram, "A Self Accuser:" Your mistress, that you follow whores, still taxeth you/'Tis strange that she should thus confess it, though 't be true.The best of the poetry are definitely amazing "five star" reads, but I wasn't enchanted by all of his poetry.
So unless a reader has a scholarly interest in 17th century Christian theology, I'd find it hard to believe they would find reading these prose works interesting in the same way as, for instance, Montaigne's Essays written in the century before Donne which range wider in their topics and are still relevant and accessible to the modern reader.
John Donne writes erotic poetry. I have an extreme love of old-timey sexual references so I love John Donne. His conceits are really well constructed, interesting and so fun. This is a great book for lovers to share, as long as both lovers are comfortable enough with themselves that getting turned on by a compass won't bother them.
I got superduper into this poet when I was twenty. I love that some of his poems are so explicitly sexual, and others so religious. He also seems so sure about faith and redemption at one moment, and totally full of doubt the next. In this collection, you'll find a portrait of an incredibly thoughtful, passionate, and frequently conflicted man.
Mine is the 1952 edition, therefore does not include the introduction by Denis Donoghue. The creator, for all intents and purposes, of Metaphysical Poetry. A lot of eccentric and strangely musical poetry. The "complete poetry" here is the complete English language poetry. None of the Latin poems are included.
I love to read "The Good-Morrow" to Anna:I wonder by my troth, what thou, and IDid, till we lov'd? were we not wean'd till then?But suck'd on countrey pleasures, childishly?Or snorted we in the seaven sleepers den?T'was so; But this, all pleasures fancies bee.If ever any beauty I did see,Which I desir'd, and got, t'was but a dreame of thee.
I like Donne well enough. He's more in my style in his rakish youth, and his later conversion to a religious lifestyle and zealotry doesn't impress me as much as some, but his genius cannot be denied even in his later years.
This is my third attempt to plow through this book, and this time I'm throwing in the towel for good. I just don't get Donne. Maybe I need one of those critical editions where some smart person with an English degree explains everything as I go.
I am reading this book as an anthology, and pick it up when I feel like reading some of Donne's work. I've read a lot of his writing, but not nearly all of it. He's the only author I think who approaches Shakespeare & I find myself re-reading many of my favorite poems he's written.
One of my favorite poets..."death, thou shalt die!"
One of my top ten books of all time. Magnificent.
A Ptolemaic world-view is inscribed in the poem, as Donne writes about “trepidation of the spheres” and the “dull sublunary lovers’ love”, which is (unlike the love of God) unstable.
Love between man and God seems to be also a theme for sonnet 14.
The desire to be enslaved and overwhelmed by God is expressed as the desire for freedom:	Take me to you, imprison me, for I,	Except you enthrall me, never shall be free,	Nor ever chaste, except you ravish me.
Death is defeated in sonnet 10: “Death, thou shalt die”.
Death is seen as a short sleep that separates us from eternal life.
I'd like to think that it was worth my time just to find some poems I liked.What kept me from NOT reading all of his poetry and prose (and thereby violating my categorical imperative) is that I'm just not interested in what he has to say, because I'm not religious and found most of his concerns irrelevant.I believe that reading is a process of self-discovery.
And if a book is not engaging your mind, maybe you're wasting your time.
Maybe I'll find it much more engaging, inspiring, and enriching when I read it when I'm older.But for now, I'm glad to have found some sonnets I like, and with them fermenting in my mind, I'm putting the rest of it down to continue my adventure.
If poetry then was the pop music of today, no doubt Donne would be a celebrity truly worthy of decades of posthumous 'greatest hits' compilations.
Moreso with the latter works.2.
The religious works...
he struck me as one of those fatalities of his era where Christianity, post-Renaissance ideas and an incorigsble love for archaic Roman Empire wordsmiths got caught in some real in flagrante delicto if you catch my drift.
It's silly but if you want to know the mindset of a religious man of his era then you could probably do much worse.3.
Want to hear Donne talk sbout his gout with a companion in a letter?
This ended up on my to-read list one way or another, so I thought I'd give it a shot.
But without a serious investment in learning the culture and literary background of the time, and teaching myself how to read the unfamiliar style, I felt that I wasn't doing myself much of a favor slogging through it, and at my age I recognize that I would rather invest in other pursuits.
I didn't read the entire book; I was mostly just interested in the poetry.There's no denying that this man knew how to construct a poem, but I got a little tired of the subject matter after a bit. It seems like half of them are about "the inconstancy of woman" or how he believes that monogamy is immoral, and the other half are about religion. Not much my cup of tea.
I'm marking this as read, but it's actually an ongoing project. Some utterly wonderful (and wonderfully rude) stuff in here and other bits that are rather monotonous and samey. I think that variation in quality is quite reasonable for a compilation of many things written over many years, however. Definitely worth having on your shelf.
A hard but rewarding slog, I focused mostly songs and sonnets for my creative writing class. It's interesting the disparate interpretations we came out with, The Flea seemed blatantly obvious to me but others interpreted in a different way. Go and catch a falling star was my hands down favourite, and Holy sonnet 14 was an eye opener...
I confess: I read part of this book in 2008 and put it down because it seemed so difficult. The task of reading archaic English was daunting. Then, because I must finish what I began, I revisited it two years later and found it very good. What happened in the interim? I read a lot - A LOT - more and grew to appreciate Donne's obvious talent.
Donne's writing is dense and transcendent at the same time. You have to be in the right frame of mind to benefit from reading him. But, assuming you are (in the right frame of mind), then his work will stun and astonish.
I love Donne's poetry - I find it witty and so passionate and timeless - although I could not get into the prose or the longer satirical poetry. I found the wordiness as well as the language got in the way for me and I couldn't follow the train of thought.
I have always been in love with his poetry. It is deep and it is real. I have continued to read and re-read it throughout my life. Will post a more thorough review after I have made it through this book.
John Donne requires care and thought; not a poet to approach after a glass of red. Nevertheless anyone who could write 'Off with that girdle, like heaven’s Zone glistering,But a far fairer world encompassing.' has a place in my heart
