https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/722655.Shambleau
Science fiction, fantasy and horror wisely mixed.
Moore was a talented writer as she shows to us in this anthology.
A little complaint: in the first two stories, The Black God Kiss and Shambleau, they have some scenes and descriptions a bit repetitive (for me at last),but I must say that Shambleau was the first story published by this talented author.Catherine L.
Moore opened the way for other women writers in science fiction and fantasy genres.
But I thought that while the language used to describe it was excellent I just got a little tired of the journey that Jirel was on.
All of this said I did find it a little slow and I was more interested in finishing the novel for the sake of getting to the end.Much the same can be said for the Northwest Smith stories (Shambleau, Black Thirst, Scarlet Dream).
I enjoy vintage SF more than Fantasy and again, whilst I enjoyed the premise of all three tales, I felt they dwelt far too long on descriptions, excellently written again.
This was amazing!
For those of you who don't like "purple prose", you might ought to just jog on, but for fans of H.
P. Lovecraft, Lord Dunsany, and the like, you need some C.
L. Moore in your life.
This was her very first story.
Unbelievably good.She sets up a sort of noir/hard-boiled dynamic with Northwest Smith and his Venusian buddy Yarol, but their criminal(?) deeds are not the focus of the story, or even spelled out for us.
It's all about this "Shambleau" that Smith tries to save from an angry mob.
She's a femme fatale unlike any you've read before.
I really enjoyed 80% of this short story, but the epilogue (of sorts) was very dry and boring. Northwest Smith is an interesting character, and I enjoyed the writing, so I think I’ll check out more of C.L. Moore’s work in the future.
Classic Weird Tales. Weird tales are generally not my thing but these range from good to excellent (Black God's Kiss, Shambleau)Well worth reading.
1930s tentacle hentai. Pretty silly story, but those tentacles were actually creepy as fuck.
The two stories couldn't be more different.This is a sci-fi re-telling of Medusa in which men are really afraid of this creature's ambiguous and "obscene" sexuality.
We know nothing of the Medusa character, called Shambleau, the name of its race.
I wouldn't call Shambleau a character, really.The worst is a very boring, condescending ending in which the two male characters explain what the whole story means because aparently the reader is really dumb and couldn't get the very obvious Medusa thing on their own.
(That is not to mention the story has a prelude that basically said the same thing the two characters repeat in the end...)
My copy is the Shere Books 1976 edition of the original UK 1961, published by World Distributiors.
The story was originally an anthology written by C.
L. Moore in 1953, and perfectly shows the writing style of the 1950's fantasy/horror genre - nothing explicit, nothing particularly gory or bloodsoaked, but a cracking good collection of short horror-cum-space opera stories, possibly the best shrot stories she ever wrote.
If you can find the book, grab it - I had to go to a book-finder to get this copy, I had the original new edition in the Seventies, several house-moves later it was gone, and I always felt the loss!
C.L. Moore's cosmic horror story is an interesting take on the genera that Lovecraft started.
It is a very short read and I found a like to the audio version on io9.com.
The idea is kind of simple and Moore manages to create and eerie feeling in her text.
But the read is a nice little horror story and it had a good ending.
The problem with old stories like this one is that similar things have since been done.
At its time it might have been very original but today it is an ordinary cosmic horror story, a fine one, but nothing special.
I was in high school when I read this and C.L. Moore was the first female Fantasy/Sci Fi writer for me. Since she wrote these stories in 1933, she may have been first period. These are great short stories. Her world building skills and scenarios are just as fresh today as they were when I read them. My favorite story here is The Black God's Kiss. Truly surrealistic horror in a very quiet way.
OH MY GOD! Wow! this is an incredible story! The writing is fantastic, beautiful and horrifyingly gripping! I love every single word in this story. Every word had a purpose. Only the needed was told. The details were phenomenal. I felt like I was right there in the grasp of the Shambleau! Amazing, Amazing, Amazing! Really wish I could rate it more than a 5 star.
I started off reading a best of collection and could not finish it, really the only story that I enjoyed was Shambleau. Shambleau is interesting and unique with a marriage of legendary folklore in with a twist of science fiction. It's always interesting reading works based on Mars and Venus before the public knew much about the likelihood of those planets being easily colonized.
Lo leí por la referencia a Shambleau en "Central Station". Es un cuento corto. Chistoso como se hacían referencias a extraterrestres de Marte, Venus, etc en la ciencia ficción de esa época (1953), pero muy visionario en el sentido de la información como alimento.
Shambleau! Shambleau! Shambleau! Yes, you've stood the test of time. Was it the setting? Was it the characters? Was it the sexiness? Yeah, it was all three. But especially the sexiness considering you were written in the 1930s.
Historia muy cortita y recomendable. No os esperéis nada innovador, pero para ser lo primero que escribió la autora y el año en que se hizo, está genial. Es como leer un capítulo de Firefly y eso siempre es bueno.
Very refreshing view on space vampires. Well written and suspenseful. I'd recommend this to any vampire lover out there, I had so much fun reading this. C.L Moore has a really lovely writing style that keeps you engaged and rooting for the main character.
Three imaginative short stories with unique species. I read the 1953 edition.
I love short stories!
cosmic horror in the tradition of h p lovecraft. moore's vivid descriptions of psychological terror prove that she was truly a master of english language.
