https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23807.The_Silence_of_the_Lambs
It rubs the lotion on its skin. It does this whenever it is told.This line will be forever etched in my memory! So creepy. And yet so memorable. The Silence of the Lambs is one of my favorite movies, by the way. It is a movie that I find deeply fascinating (I promise I'm not a serial killer). It never fails to give me chills. It's scary because it's realistic. Some the events of the film actually happened in real life. The novel is no less brilliant than the movie. Thomas Harris spent years res
The Silence of the Lambs is one of my favorite movies, by the way.
The book was inspired by the real-life relationship between criminology professor and profiler Robert Keppel and serial killer Ted Bundy.
The Buffalo Bill character was actually a composite of three real-life killers: Ed Gein, Ted Bundy and Gary Heidnick.
(The movie wasn't as good as the book.
"I’ve never said this before - I think he has a form of love for her.
I think he loves her in a way.
He thinks ‘Oh, she’s got courage.
The movie is awesome.
The book is awesome.
The characters are awesome.
But most movie freaks and geeks will agree with me that the story is probably one of the best adaptations from book to screen ever.Then you look at the cast - Jody Foster managed to play a vulnerable yet strong female (IMPORTANT) lead.
In comes Anthony Hopkins, whose portrayal of the psychopathic genius is so convincing, it catapults him to one of the biggest super villains of all time, yet he is so charming that the audience can't help but like him.And, of course, Buffalo Bill is played by Ted Levine, who is utterly convincing, even if you've seen him as the cop in MONK.With a strong cast and story, this movie became an unlikely contender at the Academy Awards.
Another one of those terrific situations where I saw the movie first (and loved it) and then eventually decided to read the book...
Now assuming that most people not suffering from the after-effects of severe head trauma know the basic plot concerning FBI trainee “Hello...Clariiiiiice” Starling, while trying to kibosh a Psychotic Vera Wang wannabe named Buffalo Bill, starts an unconventional relationship with extreme culinary expert Dr. Hannibalicious Lecter, I thought I would give you my take on the whole movie wins/book wins debate.
However, I am not talking about what was in both the movie and the book as I think it is a push, to a slight edge to Mr. Hopkins.
Except for the fact that Harris makes Clarice rather stupid** and that the dialogue in the book is a bit too clever and masculine for its own good***, it's a solid and exciting will-they-find-him-in-time-to-save-the-girl story -- a page-turner if ever there was one.
As satisfying as the movie, and that's saying a fair bit.......................* Yes, that's what he says in the book.
'Chianti' does sound better than 'Amarone' in this line, doesn't it?** In the book, Dr Lecter tells Clarice in one of their first interviews that Billy has kidnapped large-chested Catherine Martin because 'he wants a vest with tits on it'.
I mean, Moore was great but I don't like a break in continuity, nor do I like how they changed the ending of Hannibal where (view spoiler)[ Clarice eats the brains, sans fava beans or a nice Chianti, sighhhhhhhh...
(hide spoiler)].I was about 12 when I read these books and what really resonated with me, more than the tête-à-têtes, was the sheer intelligence of both Starling and Lecter.
Both equally formidable characters (view spoiler)[ Damn you, Hannibal movie adaptation for not allowing that 'ship to happen like it does in the book *shakes angry fist at sky* (hide spoiler)], Clarice and Hannibal are some of the most interesting characters that I've ever read about.
The Silence of the lambs (Hannibal Lecter #2), Thomas Harris (1940)The Silence of the Lambs is a novel by Thomas Harris. First published in 1988, it is the sequel to Harris' 1981 novel Red Dragon. Both novels feature the cannibalistic serial killer Dr. Hannibal Lecter, this time pitted against FBI Special Agent Clarice Starling. Its film adaptation directed by Jonathan Demme was released in 1991 to box office success and critical acclaim. Clarice Starling, a young FBI trainee, is asked to carry
Both novels feature the cannibalistic serial killer Dr. Hannibal Lecter, this time pitted against FBI Special Agent Clarice Starling.
Starling is to present a questionnaire to the brilliant forensic psychiatrist and cannibalistic serial killer, Hannibal Lecter.
کرافورد به استارلینگ مأموریت می‌دهد، که با هانیبال لکتر (آنتونی هاپکینز)، که یک روانشناس و قاتل زنجیره‌ ای است، گفتگو نماید، چرا که اعتقاد دارد که «لکتر» ممکن است بتواند به آنها در پیدا کردن «بیل بوفالو» (قاتلی زنجیره‌ ای که پوست قربانیانش را از تنشان جدا می‌کند) یاری نماید.
این راهنمایی، استارلینگ را به یک زیرزمین سوق می‌دهد، که در آنجا جسد یکی از بیماران سابق لکتر را پیدا می‌کند.
“I ate his liver with some fava beans and a nice chianti." (Or, "a big amarone" as in the novel.)Thomas Harris's story of "The Silence of the Lambs" has always been a fascinating one for me, and I believe wholeheartedly that this is one of the most unique, most fascinating and most enthralling crime novels ever written (and rarely has any mystery/thriller been adapted to film so successfully). The 1991 film is one of my favorite films of all time, even though much of the praise must belong to
(Or, "a big amarone" as in the novel.)Thomas Harris's story of "The Silence of the Lambs" has always been a fascinating one for me, and I believe wholeheartedly that this is one of the most unique, most fascinating and most enthralling crime novels ever written (and rarely has any mystery/thriller been adapted to film so successfully).
Stories surrounding Hannibal Lecter have been covered through five films (Manhunter, The Silence of the Lambs, Red Dragon, Hannibal and Hannibal Rising) and a very successful three-season TV series, and everyone has formed a different mindset about Hannibal.
One of my favorite books and film too! This is the second novel in the "Hannibal Lecter" book series. GAME CHANGER Back then, in 1991, I didn't know that Silence of the Lambs had been first a book, and even less that it was actually the second book in the literary series, but......I knew that the film adaptation became, in an instant, one of my all-time favorite films. A game changer indeed that swept away with the 5 most respected awards by the Academy (best film, best script, best director, b
A game changer indeed that swept away with the 5 most respected awards by the Academy (best film, best script, best director, best actor and best actress) that you can't diminish since this particular combination of these 5 Oscars, had been only accomplished three times in the history of the Oscars, It Happened One Night (1934) and One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1975), along with the said film.A curious thing is that while Dr. Hannibal Lecter became the lead character of the book series generating adaptations of each book along with a TV series inspired in the said character......for me, my attachment to Silence of the Lambs was the young FBI trainee Clarice Starling, since she was a formidable character facing overwhelming challenges: dealing with disturbing interviews with the insidious Dr. Hannibal Lecter, an unwilling pawn of FBI Special Agent Jack Crawford, and having to face the insanely dangerous "Buffalo Bill".Clarice Starling is a beacon of light in the middle of a hopeless world of darkness.
Not many books to movie adaptations do justice, but this is definitely how you go about it.Love the slow build up of characters and although saw movie first.
I am just going slow as I marvel at a well-written book.When a book asks you to take your time, you are absolutely thrilled.
I'd call this required reading for anyone who enjoys, or wishes to write, popular fiction.
I'm incredibly hesitant to call anything contemporary a "modern day masterpiece", but there are a handful of exceptions, and this offering from Thomas Harris is undoubtedly one of them.
'The Silence Of The Lambs' is one of the novels I teach in my ‘Writing Popular Fiction’ course at the University of Toronto, and for good reason: Well written, great plotting/pacing, fantastic complex characters, in-depth research, and excellent dialogue.
There is so much to experience, digest, and unpack in this novel that it is worth reading more than once.
As a desperate last measure, FBI agent-in-training Clarice Starling is sent to speak with the one man who could lead them to Buffalo Bill in time to save the girl: the imprisoned serial killer Dr. Hannibal “The Cannibal” Lecter… I don’t know why I waited so long to read anything by Thomas Harris as I’ve seen the movie adaptation of this book at least twice now and loved it each time.
Clarice is also a compelling and unique protagonist and I loved the silly side character of Dr Frederick Chilton too - his shallow and prideful personality made him an amusing foil for the likes of Starling and Lecter to rile against.
I need to get round reading this, whats put me off is that the movie has been played on the TV so many times now Clarice and Lecter are quite vivid in my mind. I am sure the book has lot more to offer as Harris is one of my high ranking thriller writers.Some trivia on the movie...Like "Casablanca", this movie contains a famous misquoted line: most people quote Lecter's famous "Good evening, Clarice" as "Hello, Clarice." This is not a misquote from the first movie but an actual quote from the se
In Hannibal, when Dr. Lecter and Clarice (now played by Julianne Moore) speak on the phone for the first time, he does in fact say "Hello Clarice".
This is the origin for the correctly quoted movie line.Buffalo Bill is the combination of three real life serial killers: Ed Gein, who skinned his victims; Ted Bundy, who used the cast on his hand as bait to make women get into his van; and Gary Heidnick, who kept women he kidnapped in a pit in his basement.
Retro review time!Loved the movie, so I read the book.
Never read Hannibal Rising, and it still holds zero draw for me.What I remember the most about Silence of the Lambs is Clarice catching some spunk to the eye.
A surprise money shot from a psycho.
Nerve-shattering fun.Thomas Harris is so good he takes seven years to write a book.
This has no bearing on this book, but I like purposeless trivia, so there you have it.In summation: I figured I'd go back and review all these titles I read before I joined Goodreads (or before Goodreads even existed) because I wanna.
I'd read this book back in High School and I like it but it didn't have real impact.
Upon my second reading of this book I loved it.
Maybe I'll get more Jack Crawford in the next book Hannibal.
I'd say the main reason reason I liked this book more than Red Dragon was simple Dr. Hannibal Lecter.
In Red Dragon he was a scene stealing B-Character but in this book he gets bumped up to second lead.
I'd say read it and then watch the movie or vice/versa.Popsugar 2018: A book made into a movie you've already seen.
What more is there to say about this wonderful book that spawned an amazing movie?Hannibal Lecter is the absolute monster: ruthless, above morals, and charming at the same time. The way he acts, the way he talks, he truly is a predator. He traps you in his web and there's nothing you can do about it. He's not beautiful, mind you. No body perfection, no sparkling in the sun, yet he's irresistible.
Will's face looks like a damned Picasso drew him, thanks to Lecter.
But he's willing to put a brave face on — if it will help him escape.MY THOUGHTS: This was a re-read for me.
I have lost count of how many times I have read and enjoyed this book.
Every so often I take it off the shelf, put it on my bedside table and dip into it, savouring each bite.The movie is good, damned good, but the book is better.If you haven’t read this yet, I recommend you start with Red Dragon.
If you have, pick it up for a re-read.Enjoy.
I'm assuming this book was once shocking and groundbreaking.
And okay, yes, eww with the eating people and the skinning.
Shut the fuck up, Thomas Harris.
There are few things more obnoxious than a male author with a hard-on for his female protagonist.
Worth reading for Hannibal the Cannibal, because I dig that abnormal psychology stuff, but did I mention the objectification?
The sexism?
How every male she meets falls for the heroin?
Yeah, as it turns out, the unnamed and hovering Harris narrator is by far the most hateful and creepy personality around, and that's including the aforementioned cannibal.
Typhoid and swans - it all comes from the same place."- Hannibal LecterThere always lies a certain degree of tragedy in reading the source material after having seen (multiple times) its expertly executed film adaptation.
Besides the revelation of the plot, the resulting contamination makes it mighty difficult to come up with one's own, unique interpretations of the characters.
The dialogues between him and Starling are for that reason alone utterly fantastic.
If this was my first encounter with Harris' world and characters, it most definitely would have been awarded a four or even five star rating.
After reading The Silence of the Lambs it’s easy to see why it became so imbedded into popular culture.There must be very few people around that haven’t heard of Hannibal Lecter.From Clarice Starling’s fragile inexperience to Hannibal Lacter’s suave superior demonic intellect and fragile, but driven, Jack Crawford.
Lecter uses this opportunity to escape, mutilating a few people in the process.Clarice and Jack have to make do with the little they got from Lecter before his escape.They have four days to find Buffalo Bill or it will be too late for the senator’s daughter.This is high tension reading, though not for the squeamish.5/5 Highly recommended.
I re-watched the movie early this month and decided to take a look at the book that spawned what is possible the most perfect crime movie of all time.
The book did not disappoint.
If anything, it’s even better than the movie.
There is very little difference beteen the two plot-wise, though there are simplifications.
The book’s prose is as haunting and eerie as the movie.
This is one of those books that I can’t imagine people giving less than five stars, it’s just pure quality through and through.
Amazing movie, amazing book.— Johann Thorssonfrom The Best Books We Read In April 2017: http://bookriot.com/2017/05/01/riot-r...
The film adaptation starring Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins is one of my favourite films of all time, and so I was already familiar with the storyline, but that didn't stop me becoming absolutely hooked with this novel.Harris's prose is incredibly readable, even more so I would say in this particular book - unlike Red Dragon, I didn't have any issues getting used to the writing style and the characters with this one.
Click the above image to check out the lamb-related commercial that's ignited a worldwide firestorm of controversy. Poles, Danes and vegans are just three of the most outraged groups. Don't miss YOUR chance to post a few angry tweets and maybe sign an online petition complaining about those insensitive, inappropriate, politically incorrect Australians!
I can smell your cunt! Imagine if you are a woman and you are alone walking in a dark hallway of a solitary confinement in a hospital for criminally insane. You are about to meet a serial killer who eats his victims' brain, sweetbreads, liver, etc. Then after meeting that killer, you hear that same man again saying I sliced my wrist so I can bleed, watch me die! and you feel splatters of liquid on your face that you thought to be blood, only to realize that it is semen.I saw the book's movie ad
That 1991 multi-Oscar winning movie starring Anthony Hopkins as Dr. Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lectern and Jodie Foster as FBI Agent Trainee Clarice Starling.
I savor and marvel at each word in the scene that I really like while recalling the movie.
Sometimes, after reading the book, I buy a copy of the movie and hear those dialogs again.
He married a fellow student so I think and pray that his male characters, Dr. Lectern or the serial killer on the loose, Buffalo Bill (who skins his prey, mostly fat smooth-skinned women, that explains the name) are not based on himself.I wonder how Harris could have thought of those conversations between a Virginia psychology graduate with honors, Starling and well-known psychiatrist Dr. Lectern.
Like the Coen Brothers were for NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN, the folks behind the film adaptation of THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS were smart enough to recognize genius when they encountered it.
And like NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN, THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS is a movie that lives up to its amazing source material.
If you're wondering about my first, it's JAWS, a movie that far exceeds the novel from which it was adapted.
Because I need to go read HARRY POTTER to my youngest, I'll keep this succinct: Harris's book is one of the best horror/suspense novels ever written.
It’s kind of oddly and darkly funny.I had forgotten a lot of the movie, so I don’t know if it’s really fair to say I liked the book better than the movie, but I did.
I think a lot of it stems from the fact that Harris didn’t really like Will Graham.
And while it’s never stated, you feel like Clarice might be attracted to Hannibal as much as he is to her, despite the fact that he scares the snot out of her.
It’s been set-up in ‘Silence of the Lambs.’This creepy romance made me ponder why I would ever be attracted to an evil character like Lecter.
Maybe it's because I'm more into the story and read them in the order of sequence and not popularity, I'm not sure, but this time around I found it even more fascinating than the first meet.Clarice is a likeable character.
He's an intriguing character from his haunting moments with his ailing wife, his detached involvement with Hannibal, to his almost paternal bond of Clarice.As a serial killer, Jame Gumb is twisted.
Monstrous in mind and disgusting with actions, he absorbs just enough page time to be interesting but not enough to make it too much about him, to take the focus off the more fascinating areas of this book.
Fantastic book!!!
A great book and a great film. In this instance, I'd actually recommend watching the film first, as Anthony Hopkins' portrayal of Dr Lecter is so good that you'll want to think of his performance as you read the book; I certainly did, anyway.
Excelente estructura atrapante para mostrar esta historia de crimen psicológico
Well, maybe another day, when I am not so chicken about watching movies in this genre.Coming back to the book - it was perfection in complete!
Why you may ask and the answer simply was because of the hype, both around the book and the movie.
In short, I was her these past few days as I was reading this book.Dr. Hannibal Lecter - Am sure much has been said, written and discussed about this man and his role in this book and all others in the series.
I loved how the author developed this character throughout the book.
