https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84552.Priestess_of_Avalon
Begun by Marion Zimmer Bradley and finished by Diana L.
Paxon, "Priestess of Avalon" is the story of Helena, the mother of Constantine the Great.It is historical fantasy.
The book swirls with goddesses, priestesses, druids, and faeries.Though part of a series, it isn't necessary to have read the others.
Each one pretty much stands alone.
An understanding of the workings of Romano-Celtic Britain will help, but it's not essential.
The ladies were/are excellent researchers and their historical components are bang on.Someone, I suspect Diana, slid the solution to an archaeological mystery gently into the book.
This is the level of research I meant.Highly recommended.
I liked it well enough and it was well written but for me, it lacked some of the magic that made The Mists of Avalon such a fantastic book.
Here we follow the live story of Eilan, the daughter of one of the tribe's king's daughter, who is send to Avalon but later will become the mother of Constantine, the first Roman Emperor to convert to Christianity.
Maybe I didn't like this book as much as Mists, because so little of the adventure actually takes place in Avalon.
Desta vez levou-nos ao tempo de Constâncio e Constantino.
Avalon é um lugar real na minha imaginação.
Helena é uma das últimas sacerdotisas de Avelon, que preserva as tradições pagãs e tanta unir-se aos cristãos.O seu filho, o imperador Constantino foi o responsável pela lei que permitiu a liberdade religiosa.
E Constantino deixa-se influenciar pela sua mulher, e mata seu filho Crispo.
O verdadeiro herdeiro de Avalon.
Não compreendi se Constâncio amava de facto Helena, ou só a adorava como sacerdotisa.
Pois não deixou que ela estivesse ao seu lado quando reinou o império.
I don't know if MZB's philosophy was voiced this strongly in the other books, or if I am only picking up on it because of where I am in my life.Either way, I re-discovered something else that I love about the "Avalon" books, which is the way they help me reconnect to my pathway.
going all the way back to a Pre-Avalon book written by MZB in the 80's called "The Fall of Atlantis".This is the same kind of self-referential schtick that I admired so much in Steven King (i.e references to other books embedded in the stories.
After having read Mists and then the Lady of Avalon, I went next to the Firebrand which I didn't particularly find myself liking though it did strengthen my beliefs in the Goddess.
Many dislike this book because it isn't as great as Mists of Avalon, but in many ways, you get to see, what is meant at the end of that novel, my favorite part, of how the Goddess still found followers through those who believed in the Virgin Mary, buying realizing as Helena does that deep down the Goddess is in everything.
I'd read this novel again.
The second prequel of The Mists Of Avalon I've read in the serie so far.
Though it can be clearly seen on the writing style that this book was finished by Diana L.
Paxson - her writing style is surely poorer and more simple than Marion's - I still enjoyed Helena's story very much and it was very touching too.
I think that all Avalon-lovers should read this one, giving a chance to Diana L.
Paxson even if her writing style cannot be compared to the great style of Marion Zimmer Bradley.
This was a really cool book!I was expecting it to be just a lot of fiction but actually it wasn’t.
But the majority of the book were things that actually happened in the Roman Empire circa 300 AC.
But this book delves into this period in history and actually shows what happened and why.
And there’s a lot of interesting things I’ve never heard before.
Besides all of the interesting history aspect, there’s obviously the Avalon fiction part which is fun in itself.So yeah, I learned a lot from reading it and it was very interesting.
I liked the book when there was dialog and things happened emotionally.
Sometimes big parts was just "then we moved there" and "then he died there" I took history at university, but not even I am THAT interested in when what happened.
Since they both can write, and are very good storytellers, I think it as waste of talent.
I understand the need of beeing correct, but it is possible to leave things out.
Every person in history is not aware of everything that is happening around them politically all the time.
So I think it is ok to leave things out.
I love all the Avalon books. "Priestess of Avalon" is another great part of this series, although "Mists of Avalon" remains my favorite. If you like the works of Bradley, you'll like this one in the series.
Another great read The story of Helena and Constantius was great and I was so glad that they did not die after their first communion like most of the stories in this series and was glad that MZB carried on their life story and the child of prophecy was indeed born.
I fell in love with Helena's grandson Crispus (Constantine's illegitimate son by Minervina)and was outraged that Constantine had ordered his death because of Fausta's lies.I didn't like the interference that Dierna played with the lives of Teleri and Carausius.
Marion Zimmer Bradley's Avalon series ranks among one of my all time favorites, and "Priestess of Avalon" stands out as my favorite.
Drawing on the real life historical figure of Helena, mother of the Roman Emperor Constantine, Bradley intricately weaves Helena's origin story into that of Britain and the Isle of Avalon.
Helena is a character you will root for from the very beginning, as she makes her way from the Isle of Avalon to Britain to Rome to Jerusalem.
Helena here is a woman for the ages.
Truly interesting exploration of the Roman world at the time of Constantine. The main character, a priestess of Avalon, moves into the world of men to be the wife to one emperor and mother of another.At times the text felt somewhat unwieldy; the pace slowed in the second half of the book and at times I wondered what the point of it all was. However, it was a great look through one person's eyes at the world at that time, and piqued my interest in the Late Roman Empire.
I liked Mists of Avalon when I read it back in the day, but couldn't get even halfway through this. It's like someone's half-assed diary when they are living through momentous things but are too tired to describe them in any manner of compelling detail. It's just so bland and depthless that I can't care about any of it.
This was a very moving book. I found myself empathizing with the life of Eilan/Helena, sharing in her joys as well as grieving for her losses. Very well done. One of the best books I have read in long time.
Fluff read that kept my interest throughout. Interesting religious undertones...honor to the Goddess combined with the roots of Christianity.
The book is a worthy part in the larger series on the disappearance of the Great Mother.Marion Bradley Zimmer is admittedly not the greatest stylist and uses many repetitive phrases.
(We follow Helena from ten-year-old girl in Avalon all the way to her journey to Palestine when she’s at least eighty.) This makes it hard to connect with the characters emotionally.What keeps the book compelling are the (at times painfully) realistic characters and the intellectually stimulating subject of the transition from paganism to Christianity in Europe.Definitely not the best book in the series, but if you liked the other ones, it's still recommended.
However, the recent scandals which have come to light aboutMarion Zimmer Bradley a use have changed how I see this series as a whole.This book, particularly, is one of the poorer sequels - it follows Helena, mother of the Emperor Constantine, who grew up on the isle of Avalon, but was later banished when she switched places with a fellow priestess during the Beltain rights.
Which was an action that changed a previous prophecy stating that a child would be born to save the old ways for another thousand years.Thanks a lot, Helena.I never connected with Helena as a character, and it both confused and angered me as to why she and her Roman never actually married.
This is book 4 on the series.
Beginning with the Mists of Avalon, this book let us see the real struggles of a Priestess of Avalon in historical time.
This Priestess comes from her Mother's giving her life in child birth.
As she goes, like her Mother, she has a hard life ahead of her.
We are given some insight into the spiritual life & training a woman would receive to become a Priestess.
For it was her sister who died giving birth to her.
Our Priestess has a vison of a man glowing with the Sun. When she meets him, her life takes a different turn.
I really loved this book, as I have loved the entire Avalon series.
As with The Forest House and Lady of Avalon, I do not enjoy the politics/historical fiction in the books, I tend to zone out a little when I'm reading it.
I'm not sure if I will continue reading the rest of the Avalon series though since this is the last book that Bradley wrote before she died and her relative continued writing the series.
I suppose if I find myself missing Avalon, I know how to return :)
I love Avalon and Marion and Diana.
Diana is a meticulous researcher and sometimes i got confused by all the Roman cities and places and there were no maps included and i would have liked that.
But I did like the story itself.
The priestess understands the new religion and that there are multiple faces of divinity but it masks one force underlying.
That as humans we need to have many ways to understand source energy and different religions give us different ways to translate that energy so that it makes sense to us.
Thank you Diana.
Possibly my favorite in the series other than "Mists". I love the character Viviane and this book includes her origin story. I also adore the way these stories all intertwine. It's truly magnificent.
O orgulho, a ambição desmedida, a religião, poder, a cegueira com ouvidos, a derrubar sonhos e pureza.Contemporâneo, se bem interpretado.
surprisingly good ending
Wonderful writing about women in the Arthurian legend. I love these tales.
Anything by Marion Zimmer Bradley is a treat and an adventure. The Priestess of Avalon was beautifully written and its presentation of the challenges faced by women was ageless.
A fantastic book about a journey of a fantastic woman. What a woman, what a journey, what a life.
Story of Helena, mother of Constantine, with a fictional backstory as a Priestess of Avalon. Liked the last few chapters about her later life and trip to Jerusalem the best
I wasn't that enamoured with this book as previous in the series by Marion Zimmer Bradley. I loved the start of the novel in Avalon but after that it started to lose its interest for me.
I finished listening to this book, but it was a little drier than I like in a fantasy book. I will finish this series though.
*My review of this fascinating story is coming soon*
