https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/200081.Wisconsin_Death_Trip
After reading Miss Peregrine’s Home for Peculiar Children, a story inspired by photographs, I realized I had never added this strange and wonderful book to my list.
Essentially nothing more than a series of photos and newspaper accounts from the late 19th century, the book depicts a troubled slice of history as it recounts daily life in Black River Falls, Wisconsin and its surrounding areas.
Perhaps the most poignant is the photograph of a living baby posed with the photos of two dead siblings - a grieving mother's only way to get a family portrait.
A woman ran up and dragged the time traveller away from the moribund : “Keep clear, keep clear – he has the typhoid for sure!” The time traveller turned to her and in terrified tones demanded of her “What God Forsaken place is this?”“Why sir,” she said, “this is Black Ferry, Wisconsin, 1896.”*********This book is :an affront to good tastea stone thrown into a ponda diatribean indictment of human beings in generala patchwork quilt of blood and deathan exercise in a particularly unpleasant form of voyeurisman original and extraordinary history essay a ripe example of the hipster’s fascination for the outre for its own sake a vision of Hell*******What you get is :a) snippets from a couple of local newspapers from this small area of Wisconsin between 1885 and 1900.
There is no better evidence than this book that the concept of a "simpler, happier time" is a straight-up teleological mendacity concocted by some archetypal mom to make us all feel guilty for ipods and Lady Gaga. It's the late 19th century in Black River Falls, Wisconsin, and everyone is offing themselves in the most esoteric ways possible, shit is constantly on fire, and roving bands of tramps are basically running everything.
I picked up this book after reading that it served as the inspiration for "A Reliable Wife," but it was just a bit too strange for me. As a history buff, I appreciated the photographic portraits and newspaper stories demonstrating the dark side of rural, turn-of-the-century Wisconsin. But it felt as if the author was trying too hard to present the book as an experimental, sociological art project, which sometimes worked well, but sometimes bordered on the ridiculous.
Lesy is a killer literary journalist and experimental artist, but Death Trip shouldn't be taken at face-value as local history.Van Schaick (a small-town photographer who flourished around the turn of the century but who died as recently as 1942) wasn't out to document angst or mass hysteria.
Honestly, that sounds like a pretty good description of America in 2014, or human beings at any stage: why Black River Falls, Wisconsin, in the 1890s?Actually, the majority of Van Schaick's overall body of photos is a really interesting documentation of the destruction of the North Woods and of the Winnebago Indians.
What became a mundane part of their everyday lives as reported in the newspapers, now, to us looking back, seems to be a macabre era of history.The newspaper articles which run from one-liners to several paragraphs report on suicides, diphtheria deaths, baby deaths, insane declarations, window smashers, arsonists, found dead bodies, deaths, funerals, charges of obscene letters sent through the mail and much more plus repeated instances of the same over and over with each one different and many the same.
I almost felt as if I were watching a silent movie at times.The combination of the text and the photos together presents an unusual artistic viewing of social history in a manner not likely to be seen again.
Not like any other book....
Snippets of newspaper articles touching on deadly epidemics, bank failures, suicides, arson and doctors' notes from the Mendota State "Insane Asylum".Here is one such snippet: (Mary Sweeney appears often - in different towns - throughout the state, breaking windows.) Governor Schofield willl take steps to provide, if necessary, for the care of Mary Sweeny who has cause so much trouble....
by smashing plate glass windows.
Mary says she doesn't know why she breaks windows and only does it when the craze seizes her.
She uses cocaine liberally on such occasions, saying it quiets her nerves."
I recently read and loved "A Reliable Wife." The author, Robert Goolrick, claimed this book was his inspiration.
Wierd, wierd, wierd Disease.
Mental illness.
Corruption.
Deceit.
Murder.
Crime.
Psychosis.
Love affairs.
Suicide.
Death.
Lots of death.
This is a bizarre book, a collection of newspaper articles and historical photographs from Black River Falls, Wisconsin from the 1890's to 1910's.
This book paints a bleak picture of harsh working conditions, unsavory social connections, and a genuine hardship amongst the community.
A reviewer from Library Journal summed it up succinctly, "[the:] whole package seems to confirm that the good old days were actually awful."
Wisconsin Death Trip doesn't entirely deserve its cult reputation. The tedious Freudian opening and closing essays and the super groovy 1970s art collages get in the way of the reader's enjoyment of its morbid and interesting little nuggets of American history.
great book for overly moody man-children who think a passing interest in "death" makes them deep.
She had long planned death in this manner.""Henry Johnson, an old bachelor of Grand Dyke, cut off the heads of all of his hens recently, made a bonfire of his best clothes, and killed himself with arsenic." "The 80 year old mother of an imprisoned man threw herself in front of a train and was cut into 3 pieces.
He attempted to take his life a few days ago by cutting his head from his body with a sharp instrument, but was prevented from doing so."And this:"Elsie Whitsan, 4 years old, child of Henry Whitsan, died at Neenah of grief...
I read it when it first came out in the 1970's and have never forgotten the structure and premise: glass negatives were found all dating from the late 1800's in Wisconsin.
Side-by-side to these pictures were excerpts from Wisconsin papers; that society's definition of obituaries.
(I made that up, but I do remember there was a description of suicide-by-well-jumping in the book.) The essay at the beginning describes how the Wisconsin farmers could not understand the worldwide depression.
The pictures, the author's essay, and the news clippings came together to make a book worth reading, thinking about, and remembering for forty years.
This was a very interesting account of the effects of an economic depression on the rural inhabitants of western Wisconsin, specifically the town of Black River Falls, with photographs that really bring to life the people who lived and died during the 1890s.
Lesy's impetous behind the approach to history seen in the book seem to be very representative of the new philosphies such as postmodernism that began to effect the academic world by the '70s.
I especially felt the mixture of actual documents and photographs brought a unique view of history, brought even closer to home as I read the book in the town of Winona, Minnesota just across the river from the area of Wisconsin the book details.
This is the American history, reality I knew I'd never find in doctoral propaganda. Brutal, disgusting, insane human. It is what it isn't.
Photographs become something like an immortal object, undead, and we wake the dead thing each time we look at them making us witnesses to that eternity.Michael Lesy's Wisconsin Death Trip sets out to capture a time and a place, Black River Falls, Wisconsin, shortly before and after the turn of the 20th century.
Faced with economic depression, a brutal climate and a diphtheria epidemic that decimated its infant population, a good number of the citizens of Black River Falls, most who were recent German and Scandinavian immigrants, went berserk and many found themselves incarcerated in the nearby Mendota Asylum for the Insane.Women killed themselves over grief at the death of their children.
Goolrick has written that A Reliable Wife was inspired, in part, by Wisconsin Death Trip, a nonfiction book published by Michael Lesy in 1973.
Wisconsin Death Trip uses news clippings (like the ones above and below), local gossip, snatches from period literature, records from the Mendota "insane asylum" and images from glass-plate negatives taken by Charles Van Schaik in the small town of Black River Falls, WI, to illuminate the harshness of Midwestern life in the late 1800s/early 1900s.
And that once we were much more comfortable with mortality, perhaps because death came so often and remorselessly.The book inspired me to return to some of my genealogical research and those ancestors who lost multiple children in the early 1900s.
This book is an art masterpiece as much as a fine read.In no way a documentary (or even a serious attempt at historical narrative, despite the claims of the introduction), the book connects historical photographs with news, psychiatric reports, and fiction written in and about Wisconsin life at the time of the photographs were taken.
This is a book to revisit endlessly because it builds with experience and there is always something new to observe and learn.For example, I will never leave a jar of  Paris Green about when employing a housemaid.
Experience ("read" isn't enough) it all in one sitting.
It's probably the most disturbing book I own.
It's a history lesson but it applies today: we're all finding out (again) what happens when you're surrounded by financial crisis, bank fraud, unemployment, business failures, recession/depression, pandemic illness, tax protesting, suicides, foreclosures, violent crime, mass murder, insanity, pseudo-science, etc.After several dozen re-reads, I still can't state the main points of the analysis at the end.
("The 'good old days' weren't" is flippant, accurate, and insufficient.) He makes many interesting observations (comparing county/state numbers, reporting "suicide due to business failure" will cause more people to view it as an option, etc.) but he never really ties it all up.(Note: there are no page numbers and no index.)
I came to this book after reading this quotation from Geoff Rymann's Was: "By now anyone would have a right to wonder what actually happened eighty years ago: the men burning houses barns and horses so that for ten years and more the countryside was an inferno of revenge, broken by a fifth season of arson.
The old men who went mad with jealousy.
The old women who jumped down wells "Most of the reviewers on this site have quoted striking excerpts from the Badger State Banner.
But the excerpts in this book are almost without exception as amazing as they are foreign to our modern ears.
There is no appropriate category for this book.
"I liked it" is wrong, because there is nothing likable about this horrific peek into late nineteenth century Western Wisconsin.
I knew of it because my book club had read the novel "A Reliable Wife".
The author referenced W.
as source material.
For anyone inclined to idealize frontier society, this would be an eye-opener.
Living in poverty and isolation, with epidemic disease, seems guaranteed to create mental illness.
Among the source material are admission summaries and death notices from a mental hospital.
I recommend reading it on a sunny day.
Being interested in both history and genealogy, and being from Wisconsin, I had to look at this one. The portraits are interesting, too bad they are not all printed as taken, I could do without the artistic changes (if there were 3000 portraits to choose from why use the same portrait several times in the same book?). The articles are a good collection portraying the dark side of turn of the century life and lack of medical knowledge. Glad I found this one for 99 cents.
I love this book so much. It's a beautiful and haunting montage of images, newspaper accounts, and history, a palimpsest that evokes mood of time and place, the anxieties of a culture, particularly about women, in rural Wisconsin. A true paradigm shift that gives weight to a people's fears and emotional state as it related to history. This book was what inspired me to write historical fiction.
My favorite part about this book was the photos. I didn't really bother to read it except a few paragraphs here and there and the introduction. The photos really convey what the author is trying to get across.
She ran away from home 2 years ago, and since then … has been in more than 100 different jails, serving short sentences for indulging in her wild sport.Maria Sweeny [alias Mary Ricks], the window smasher … reached Eau Claire from St. Paul [and] sat up all night in the waiting room of one of the depots.
The mother conducts a home for aged Germans at Wauwatosa, and was away at the time.The police at Kenosha are of the opinion that a young girl took her own life by throwing herself into the lake near that city.
So pretentious it hurts.
Wisconsin Death Trip es una recopilación de fotografías tomadas por Charles Van Schaick en el condado de Jackson, Wisconsin, y al mismo tiempo, una colección de noticias publicadas en los periódicos “wisconsinos” en los últimos quince años del siglo XIX.
En realidad, no presté mucha atención a los textos porque las enumeraciones reiterativas no suelen quedarse mucho tiempo conmigo.Si alguien se lo pregunta, sí, hay fotos post-mortem, pero son minoría y del montón.
Son más interesantes los retratos, en grupo o individuales, y me ha llamado mucho la atención la seriedad (o tristeza) de todas las caras.
Me he aburrido con los textos y he mirado las fotografías con ojos curiosos pero nada más.
This book is a compendium of several years' worth of morbid tidbits: murders, suicides, poisonings, diseases, arsonists, insanity, accompanied by some photographs of the era.
This read more like an art book than anything informational - at the start of each year, there is a mashing up of various documents almost like a found poem.
I read the first few years until all the morbidity began to run together.
While the tidbits were interesting, especially in the way they are written as though being completely normal events, eventually I couldn't imagine reading through several more years of them.
The author, a trained historian, sought to take a different tact in exploring history by examining Jackson County, Wisconsin, roughly during the time frame of 1890 and 1910, through the collection of a photographer who lived there at that time, as well as selected clippings from local newspapers, not to mention admission notes from the local sanitarium.
If there was anything positive going on in this county at the time, the author has purposely chosen to omit it from his open ended study.
The book purposely leaves everything open for interpretation.
Has some eerie parallels with events from recent years, such as the woman who drowned all her children because she believed the Devil was after them.
It's shocking to read about diphtheria and other contagious diseases wiping out entire families.
"Gov. Schofield will take steps to provide, if necessary, for the care of Mary Sweeny who has caused so much trouble .
by smashing plate glass windows.
This woman.
. Mary says she doesn't know why she breaks windows and only does it when the craze seizes her.
She uses cocaine liberally on such occasions, saying it quiets her nerves.
The book contains an archive of photos taken in a Wisconsin town during the turn of the century - black and white family portraits along with other strange pictures of dead babies and children and dwarfs.
In between the photos are accounts taken from the local newspaper of people's mental and physical demise.
It seemed that people seemed to unexpectedly fall into insanity and were consequently thrown into the local insane asylum.
Lesy doesn't add any commentary, except in his introduction and conclusion, which makes the stories and pictures seem all the more haunted and weird.
This book is creepy.
