https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/764791.A_Kierkegaard_Anthology
The Kierkegaard Anthology was assigned for Howard Burkle's course The Philosophy of Existentialism at Grinnell College.
Only some was assigned, but I read it all, the partial reading of texts always bothering me more than the time required to finish them.Although I had a strong prejudice against Christian theology except as historical documents, Kierkegaard had to be taken seriously.
His theology was not based on an ignorant, childlike acceptance of some assemblage of biblical texts, but quite self-awarely flew in the face of mere facts and common sense.
This was intriguing, representing a current of Christian thinking which just might be relevant, a current I later found in Rudolf Bultmann.
Excellent selections from a (the?) great 19th century mind. Who else can do these two things at once?: 1) Peel back your skin for your persistent hypocrisy. 2) Comfort you in your plight down this weary path. SK is like the best of friends -- loving you tight but telling you the tough truth.
I read hundreds of pages in Prof. Sontag's Existentialism class my sophomore year. I once went to the professor's office hours and asked "What the HELL is going on with all of this?" to which he replied "Ho ho ho ho ho [sounding like the two old guys from The Muppet Show] that's exactly where I WANT you to be!"
This is a very difficult read.
This Danish philosopher established his own response to Hegel, drawing from a spiritual predisposition that the true self determines reality.
As you read him, you become drawn into a vortex of existentialism.
The subjective becomes the truth.
There exists no objectivity.
Those who hold that there exist objective truths are foolishly following tradition.
Very few have ever discovered this perspective.
Even fewer have asserted it.
True faith, true belief in God, requires acknowledging the true self and abandoning that self to God. This is the antithesis of the world’s reality.
This book is a good desk reference for the works of Soren Kierkegaard. It contains a lot of his principle works, however, they have unfortunately been edited significantly in order to fit in an anthology format. Read this perhaps to get an idea of Kierkegaard's thought, but read the original works if you want a true sample of his writing talent.
This anthology covers almost all of  Kierkegaard's key writings, both philosophical and religious, with the probable exception of   The Concept of Dread . Excerpts are made carefully so that, put together, they enable a rich picture of Kierkegaard's thought. The introductory passages by the editor are also usually helpful.A significant aspect of Kierkegaard's writings is that he uses lots of pseudonyms. To understand this, the first step is to know about his purpose. According to Kierkegaard him
However, Kierkegaard gives this distinction a new twist, for he does not conceive God and man as static within their respective orders, but as capable to transposing between the two.Let us begin with a characterization of the temporal and the eternal.
In this sense, there is history only because things are historical, there is time only because things are temporal - that is, prone to change and self-alienation.By contrast, the eternal is absolutely contemporaneous, which is another way to express its atemporality.
I'm sure I would have liked it more but I'm a little slow and about half of it went over my head. It did bring some issues into focus for me though and I'm sure if I read it again I would understand even more of it. The problem was it's a very deep book and I'm a very shallow person.
Si les Stades constituent une continuité éclairante à Ou bien...ou bien et que le fait de trouver ces deux livres sous un même couvert constitue la réalisation d’un fantasme formidable pour tout amateur de Kierkegaard, le fait qu’on y ait mis aussi La reprise et La maladie à la mort constitue un supplément, certes apprécié, mais inexplicable.
Écrite volontairement pour être pénible au lecteur, cette longue dernière section y parvient largement, mais c’est souvent dans la souffrance que l’on apprend le plus.Enfin, La maladie à la mort est une des réflexions les plus profondes et brillantes que j’ai eu l’occasion de lire sur l’existence et l’existence religieuse chrétienne en particulier.
This is a collection of the works of Kierkegaard organized chronologically.
It is meant to show his development as an author and as a writer in general.
I don't know if they included all of the works, but some of them are abridged and have to have footnotes explaining some parts.
The book starts each work off with a short biographical bit telling us where Kierkegaard was at this point in his life.
So initially it shows the journals from 1834-1842, then comes Either/Or, Fear and Trembling and so on.
This guy's life is actually rather sad.

I read Kierkegaard alongside Abelard. Abelard is in scholasticism's origins and Kierkegaard basically undermines Hegelian thought (which seems to have deep scholastic origins). He was so heady and yet vulnerable in his writings. I think he is essentially both an academia nut and a mystic. His words against a soft Christendom are prophetic and thus hard to hear for someone in the system, but he speaks truth. There are many critiques one can make about him, but one can never question his veracity and commitment to spiritual growth.
I've had this book for a long time, initially got pretty close to the end. Am using it now to get started on a long term S.K journey, for the fullness of time is at hand, have always put him at the top of not only philosophers but all of writers, and till now have only read 3 unedited things of his, Fear & Trembling, The Present Age, and that thing on the genius and the saint. Alea acta est time it is therefore as a reader.
I read sections of this a long time ago for a college class; I really liked SK then and wanted to reacquaint myself with his writings. Thus far, reading it straight through instead of in sections, I'm getting a lot out of it.
As an introduction to Kierkegaard this is by far the best produced.
One of my favorite philosophers in my teens - I think because he was so inquisitive.
SK is the man!
I have been reading this slowly over the past two years.
Surprisingly misogynistic, this was my introduction to Kierkegaard. Not appreciated.
Great survey of the master philosopher's best works.
Wow....Kierkegaard and Bretall (editor) both receive 5 stars
enchanting
The first existentialist and devout Christian. Fascinating guy.
