https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/764263.A_Mind_to_Murder
here's a little story for you...
because this was a man who helped build the careers of many politicians, his birthday party was a rather public affair and was heavily attended by the local glitterati, including our illustrious mayor.
reporters began interviewing local politicians and power-brokers, and most of the interviewed denied being in attendance.
But by this time tomorrow...no one will have been there at all."the true story above is also a completely spoiler-free clue to solving the mystery of A Mind to Murder - delivered to you free of charge!PD James' early novels featuring detective and poet Adam Dalgliesh are straightforward, old-fashioned murder mysteries.
Most of the novel takes place in the Steen Psychiatric Clinic, which deals mainly with affluent and often artistic patients.
This was a time, of course, when such legal drugs were still seem as harmless and experimental.Miss Enid Bolam was the senior administrator of the clinic and is found murdered, leading to Dalgleish being called in to the investigate.
Rather like the first book in the series, “Cover Her Face,” the victim is not greatly liked.
I suspect that reading the first two books in the series so closely together did emphasise similarities, but I am looking forward to reading the next in this classic series.
I am a huge PD James fan and enjoyed revisiting this book. It must have been 15 years since I originally read it. I had suggested her books to my husband when he was looking for an audiobook and so I can now reread PD James in audio form. While in some ways this book could be said to be dated, in other ways it is strangely up-to-date. James always comes across as the most level-headed person. She brings this sense of strength to her mysteries. There is nothing cozy here.
Only three weeks earlier I had read Sylvia Plath's The Bell Jar, making it a bit of a shock (pun intended) to open A Mind to Murder and find it set in a London psychiatric clinic.
In between the electric shock and LSD treatments as well as psychiatric "talk therapy" sessions, the administrator of the clinic is murdered in the basement amid a confusion of scattered patient files.This reader's personal tastes were confirmed: P D James is hands down a superior mystery writer to Agatha Christie.
From the Book Jacket - When the administrative head of the Steen Psychiatric Clinic is found dead with a chisel in her heart, Superintendent Adam Dalgliesh of Scotland Yard is called in to investigate.
I love Dalgliesh and his quiet, deliberate manner.
I also really appreciate how James gives us background detail on the characters, revealing a little at a time, much as we’d learn about someone in real life.
James crafts a plot that seems straightforward, but which includes numerous red herrings to keep the reader off balance.
She certainly had me guessing, and even when Dalgliesh was closing in on the suspect, the author had another surprise in store.
Read by Penelope Dellaporta in a terribly refined voice with a few character accentsI noted with great delight that the action of this book takes place mostly in the Steen clinic, which caters to rich, upper-class patients with socially unacceptable problems such as failing marriages and Undiscussable Things (I suspect one of the Things is homosexuality, which was still a criminal offense in England back in 1963).
In the last book, Cover Her Face, James also had a murder victim whom nobody particularly liked, and I do hope she doesn’t overuse this method of ensuring lots of potential suspects.
The plot centres around a murder at a psychiatric clinic in London.
First published in 1963, this is the second of the series featuring detective Adam Dalgleish and we learn a little more about what makes him tick in this book, including his fear of failure despite never having allowing a murderer to slip through his grasp.
I thought the first 70 pages dragged a little as Dalgleish interviews each of the suspects in turn but the pace picked up and the writing at the denouement was very good indeed.
This is what raised it from a 3 to a 4 star review.
A Mind To Murder by P.D. James is the second book in the Inspector Dalgleish mystery series. In this mystery, Dalgleish and his assistant, Sgt Martin, investigate the murder of the Administrative Officer at a London psychiatrist facility. To all intents it appears that the murder is an inside job. As with the other PD James books I've read, I'm impressed with how intelligently James writes. The story is a methodical police investigation, but I enjoy how she lays out a story, the methodical inv
A Mind To Murder by P.D. James is the second book in the Inspector Dalgleish mystery series.
In this mystery, Dalgleish and his assistant, Sgt Martin, investigate the murder of the Administrative Officer at a London psychiatrist facility.
To all intents it appears that the murder is an inside job.
As with the other PD James books I've read, I'm impressed with how intelligently James writes.
Dalgleish is a thoughtful investigator, Martin, with is more down-to-earth way of looking at things, a perfect assistant.
I look forward to reading the next book in this series.
3.5 É um policial que se inscreve na categoria "whodunnit ?", muito ao estilo inglês e na linha de Agatha Christie - todos têm algo a esconder, todos são suspeitos. É um desafio à capacidade de análise e dedutível do leitor. Também gosto do inspetor, da forma como a personagem está construída. Neste 2° volume da série avança-se um pouco mais na sua história. Em comparação com os policiais modernos, sentimos falta de ação...
A Mind to Murder by P.D. James is the second in the series featuring policeman Adam Dagliesh. It takes place at a London Clinic where the office manager is murdered. Dagliesh and his sidekick Martin investigate and find that more than murder is occurring at the clinic. Another engaging British mystery that is less blood and gore and more thoughtful investigation.
The 2nd Adam Dalgliesh of the series and we got a bit further into his character in this outing.
This was more towards the end of the book though and whilst the book was well executed, I got a bit muddled with the introduction of all the medical staff early in the novel.This definitely affected my enjoyment verbal, but the last third of the book was up to the writer’s high standards.We have a closed group of suspects all working for the Steen Clinic, a psychiatric specialist clinic where the Administrative Officer is brutally murdered one Friday afternoon.
We have a group of highly intelligent suspects in the main, but will they be clever enough to confuse Dalgliesh?
(Not that these had anything to do with the plot; I just had to keep reminding myself that the book is more than 50 years old.)No one liked Enid Bolam much, with the possible exception of a woman whom she had helped to get a job at the clinic; of course, I suspected this woman right away.
Unfortunately, "whodunnit" didn't seem like much of a surprise to me, but in true James fashion, there are twists and turns throughout the book to keep things reasonably interesting.And, of course, Adam Dalgliesh is one of my favorite detectives in fiction.
Una vez terminado todo el interrogatorio el detective irá buscando más pistas en los posibles sospechosos ya que hay varios que pudieron haber cometido el crimen.En definitiva la historia tiene lo suyo, mucho misterio, muchas vueltas y personajes muy interesantes, a los amantes de este genero les va a gustar por más que tenga algunos peros.
Se deja leer sin problemas, entretiene y atrapa.Un crimen, una clínica psiquiátrica y varios sospechosos, misterio asegurado que te hace ir paso a paso descubriendo el mundo interno de un particular lugar y de quienes están en él.
It gives me a new found admiration for P.D. James, that she can still hold her own in this genre, after so many decades of writing and against so many new authors.
This is an Adam Dalgleish police procedural mystery,(Hope I spelled that right), and I love the fact that it's all based on one murder and the investigation surrounding it, as against the new crime thrillers there are so many of these days, where it is necessary to have bodies piled up to the roof (literally in some books).
Enjoyed it, a must for all crime/mystery lovers.
I've noticed in these two that while Dalgliesh gets onto a certain clue that sends him right to the murderer, there really isn't much here about investigative technique or something that he does especially to solve the crime.
Dalgliesh draws this case and he sets out to investigate.
Consider that electro-shock therapy was used here as well as the administration of lysergic acid (yup, good old LSD) to get people to "loosen up" and shed their inhibitions so that the doctors could get to the roots of their problems.
Hmmm.Not a bad read, and I would recommend it to people who read British mysteries or who have decided they want to read this series.#2 Adam Dalgliesh series
I don't know for sure if the info I give here will spoil the mystery for anyone, but just in case, I clicked the box; I'd hate to ruin this great story for anyone.Liked this much better than the first one!
I love it when an author fools me so completely!
And best of all, our Inspector was fooled too!!!
I really like that James has written Inspector Dalgliesh to be such a real person, i.e., fallible and yet humble enough to be chagrinned (or slightly irritated with himself) that he'd so completely overlooked something so obvious.
After enjoying P.D. James' later novels in the Adam Dalgliesh series, I decided to work my way through the entire series.
In this novel, the murder happens immediately, and then Dalgliesh shows up and starts interviewing the suspects.
I only really started to enjoy the novel after the first of second CD when the interviewing section was over.
I've come to enjoy P.D. James's detective fiction because of the amazing job she does in characterization.
I agree with other reviewers that Dalgliesh isn't so interesting at this point, but having read some of the later novels I know the best is yet to come.
I tried to read this one night in a single sitting and only succumbed when I woke up with the book in my hand, still propped open by my thumb.
But for an early hour demanded by work, I would have put on a pot of coffee and finished the job with relish.I like Dalgliesh, and though I have only read the first two volumes in James's series of his exploits, I have already witnessed interesting layers in his personality.
I won't speak for the mystery in this one, as that part of the genre doesn't hold my interest nearly as much as James's treatments of character, tone and reflection do.
I actually listened to the CD version, but it wasn't listed.
As always, it took awhile to get into the book since the first part of any of Ms. James' books sets the stage for what happens.
It takes a little while to remember the characters just like when one meets a group of people.
But like all of Ms. James' mysteries that I've read, the story gathers momentum like a stone rolling downhill and becomes thoroughly involving.
Also like all of her mysteries, there is irony and the effect of the story is not sacrificed to provide a happy ending.
Another great one - it's amazing how well she conveys the perspective and mental state of each character without disrupting the pleasures of the traditional whodunnit structure.
En mycket tidig Adam Dalgliesh-deckare inte alls i nivå med "Fyren" och "I mördarens rum". Han är redan nu en framgångsrik poet, här med en fru som nyligen dött i barnsäng. För torftig miljöskildring. Boken översattes förståeligt nog inte till svenska förrän år 1989.
The second in the series and Dalgleish is just a little more human. Not exactly a police procedural but lots of interviews and a look from many points of view. Intriguing, particularly trying to guess motivations of staff of a psychiatric clinic. I do see why Dalgleish has become so well known over the years. On to #3.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
Audio book. Good cozy mystery.
This treatment involves giving a dose to the patient and staying with her or him the whole time the drug is in effect.) There is some animosity among the doctors based on their beliefs in what works.When the administrative head of the clinic is found dead in the basement, killed by a blow to the head and a stab to the heart, Superintendent Adam Dalgliesh is faced with a range of suspects.
There are the doctors, who resented the intrusion of this administrator who appeared to have no interest in or understanding of psychiatry.
I'm reading the Inspector Dalgliesh books out of order, just as I come across them.
It was written in 1963 and concerns the murder of the Administrative Officer (that's like the manager) of a private psychiatric clinic in London.
Just enough to show that the staff shrinks have differing views and sometimes complain about each other to the Administrative Officer (a rigidly correct woman who is disliked in varying degrees by most of the employees), the Medical Director, or members of the Board of Trustees.
There's a last second twist, though, that surprises even Inspector Dalgliesh.
Nutariau vieną iš jų pasiimti paskaityti, tuo labiau, kad autorė įvardijama viena iš geriausių detektyvo žanro autorių.
Autorė savo rašymo stiliumi šiek tiek priminė detektyvinių romanų klasiką.
Romano veiksmas vyksta uždaroje ligoninės erdvėje (praktiškai visą romaną), kuriame įtariamieji yra ligoninės personalas ir pacientai.
Viskas, kaip klasikiniame detektyve: viskas vyksta pamažu, tačiau tiesiai į tikslą.
Pati knygos idėja gal ir nieko, tačiau trūko azarto, nebuvo suteikta pagrindo spėjimams - o kas gi tas paslaptingas žudikas?
Nežinau, ar skaitysiu toliau šios autorės kitas knygas ir jose ieškosiu to tikro detektyvo, tačiau kuriam laikui šią knygų seriją paliksiu ramybėje.
D. James mystery.
This one takes place mostly in a National Health mental health clinic and contains a wonderful variety of characters - a handsome young porter who is an artist in his real life, a detail-oriented office manager who is not sympathetic to the patients who come to be seen, several psychiatrists who tend to dismiss each other's areas of expertise, and several nurses, secretaries, art therapy practitioners, and so on.
Most the the story is revealed as he questions everyone in the clinic with enough detail outside the clinic to make the plot interesting.
I love James' ability to make characters alive and plot details clear concisely.

There are few crime and mystery authors whose books I reread (for reasons obvious), and PD James and Agatha Christie have a prominent place among them.
This was a reread for me, but seemed like a new story, as I read it a long time ago and had totally forgotten the circumstances leading to the murder.
I quite enjoy PD James' style.
I like reading about Dalgleish and team.
The suspects are naturally her co-workers as it was almost closing hours and all the patients present at that time had no access to her.
I thoroughly enjoyed the book.
