https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/370966.Three_Plays
It isnt easy to write a play about Nothing, but Coward does precisely that w this souffle that rises to a tasty top.Amateurs may find it a lark to produce, but, Coward warned,it's probably his most difficult to perform --it has no plot and little action.
Hay Fever (1925) is a vehicle for comic acting as Bohemian crackpotters - retired actress Mum, romantic novelist Dado and their two impudent teens - are blithering hosts to unsuspecting weekenders.
Blissful nonsense inspired by socials at the NY home of actress Laurette Taylor and youthful weekend houseparties at the country estate of Mrs Astley Cooper.What dates in the theatre?
reread: 4 starsI usually don't read plays but I just adore Noël Coward's witty and clever writing. I'm glad I finally reread this.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1st read: 5 stars
This volume included a humorous intro by Edward Albee."Blithe Spirit." I hadn't read any Coward before, and had a notion his work would be laugh-out-loud funny, like Wodehouse's, but I found this play, although extremely literate and witty, wasn't as risible as that.
It was funny, but it all lead up to a reaction – such as the guests plotting a kind of revenge on the family that used them as theatrical foils – that never came.
I suppose in 1925 the personas of the family were novel enough to carry the play.
So...I bought this only for Private Lives, because I knew I'd be going to a well-reviewed DC production, and, if possible, I like to read a play before I see it - an acquired preference from classical theater and opera.
Well, it's a taste - for dry, bantering, cleverly corrosive wit - I acquired long ago, before Coward, and so I found Private Lives HOWLINGLY funny on the page and on the stage.
(Mad "coincidence": I was laid up sick as a dog in the same Shanghai hotel in which, also sick as a dog, Coward wrote Private Lives in 1930.
Another collection so each play will be reviewed seperately.Blithe Spirit (*****): Very funny play showing off Cowards wit on every page with a great story and intriguing characters.
However it still had some funny moments and would be interesting to see onstage.Private Lives (*****): This is Cowards most well known play and it's easy to see why, the characters of Amanda and Eliot are great together and with their new partners, Victor and Sybil respectively and the humour is well written.
As Coward writes in Private Lives..."Let's be superficial and pity the poor philosophers." Amen.
My son Henry introduced me to Coward by recruiting me to play two female characters in Blithe Spirit while he was practicing his lines as Charles, and it was the most fun I ever had helping out with homework.
If I'd had the big bucks, I'd have jetted us off to New York to watch Rupert Everett play Charles on Broadway.
Of the other two plays, Hay Fever is maybe a little too messy, but Private Lives is, for all its cynicsm, a compelling story of enduring love.
I'm a big fan of Noel Coward and this is a perfect read. Three excellent pieces.
This was a marvelous little confection.
I fell in love with Coward several years ago when I was introduced to "Private Lives," via the 1931 film, and it's a passion that has yet to fade.
Coward writes delightful comedies full of wit and cosmopolitan dilettantes behaving badly, much in the spirit of Oscar Wilde but without the attempts to moralize that dogged so much of his work.
Coward has no social commentary to make, other than to set a spotlight on the Typhoid Mary's of the world.
The three plays in this collection shared similar themes, with the plots of each centering around the flimsy romances and general carelessness of the rich. Unlike many books intended to be humorous, these plays managed to deliver genuinely funny material. This is the result of terse, witty dialogue, which Coward does not interrupt with unnecessary description or stage direction. Of the three, I would most recommend Hay Fever, although Private Lives and Blithe Spirit are also both worth reading.
Witty, surprising, and thoroughly entertaining trio of plays from a master of marital comedy. If couples didn't talk like that, they should. Well recommended.
Only read PRIVATE LIVES from this.
His ability to write smart, extremely verbal and witty characters is almost as fun to read as it is to witness in performance.“Blithe Spirit” is one of Coward’s more famous pieces, and the premise is clever and intriguing.
I could not help but observe as I read it, and saw it in performance in an excellent production at the Stratford Festival, that the arguments between the character of Ruth and her husband are some of the best moments in the piece.
But if you pay attention she is not written that way, and some of the text’s best moments belong to her.Noel Coward is a throwback to a time we imagine was more witty and urbane.
These plays are still enjoyable with lines like “Time is the reef upon which all our frail mystic ships are wrecked,” and “it’s discouraging to think how many people are shocked by honesty and how few by deceit” and “I love to see things as they are first, and then pretend they’re what they’re not.” What fun, Darling.
Hay Fever:As with the other plays in this collection, it's fun to read if you like very light comedy, but for my taste it's too much lacking in any kind of critical import.
Most of it I find annoying rather than funny.Private Lives:Another Noel Coward light comedy full of flippant, blaisé, young characters engaged in a rondeau of sexual attraction, witty repartees and a coquettish disdain for social conventions.
One of the play's characters, Elyot, at one time seems to express Coward's credo:"You mustn't be serious, my dear one; it's just what they want.
Unfortunately Coward's characters lack the bite for a real fight.
Blithe Spirit- 5 starsHay Fever- 4 starsPrivate Lives- 3 starsBlithe Spirit, I really loved.
It was a play involving ghosts and seances and the supernatural.
So it worked with the play, but when just reading the play rather than seeing it, it got hard to follow sometimes.Private Lives was good, but a strong way to end for me, as I really liked the ones that came before it.
And the ending of the play was surprising, but made no sense to me.
i've been a fan of noel coward since seeing a production of relative values many years ago at the alabama shakespeare festival (we saw a shakespearean production, too, of course, but coward looms much larger in memory).
i assigned blithe spirit as a summer reading option for my ap students this year, and i really hope some will read it, although all three selections are clever, witty, and hilarious.
more so if i could take them to a live production.
i remember laughing out loud almost continuously in values.
1) Blithe Spirit - 1941 - 4 starAwesome story that felt very comfortable to read.
The storyline and characters were very entertaining and clearly brought to life.
I look forward to seeing the movie :)2) Hay Fever - 1925 - 3 starQuirky, fast-paced and unexpected.
I don't think I fully "got it", but I really enjoyed the chaotic family dynamic.
Although I'd hate to be a part of their game, it was fun to read.3) Private Lives - 1930 - 4 starAnother quirky and entertaining tale, exploring the twisted relationship of a couple.
And when needed in my own relationship, I can now use Shollocks!
“Private Lives” is a close second to "The Importance of Being Earnest" for the funniest play ever written. “Hay Fever” and “Blithe Spirit” aren’t far behind. Noel Coward was a British national treasure, the true heir of Oscar Wilde, a gay icon, and one of most prolific and multi-talented figures of 20th century popular culture. Playwright, songwriter, singer, actor, he towered in his heyday of the 1920s, ‘30s, and ‘40s like a glamorous, epicene Colossus. These three plays are his greatest legacy. Read them immediately, and, joy being such a rare commodity, never miss a chance to see them performed.
I really like comedies, but I was expecting something more along the lines of The Importance of Being Earnest, and that wasn't really the feel I got from Coward--maybe it was just my reading, but I didn't see these plays as particularly witty.
The one I did enjoy though was Hay Fever, but I didn't think much of Private Lives or Blithe Spirit (and of course, Blithe Spirit is Coward's most well known play, so presumably it is generally considered one of his best).
But for me, only Hay Fever had that mix of witty drollery and comic shuffling and reversal that makes for a truly successful comic play.
While I don't think I can argue against Coward's clever dialogue and sharp wit, my ultimate enjoyment of these plays was diminished by what felt like an authorial mean-spiritedness or disgust with human nature. Was Coward a misanthrope? I don't know enough of his biography to discern the spirit in which his Blithe was intended. Maybe I just don't get him, or should have seen these performed rather than reading them...but as this collection was offered up as an alternative to (the superlative) Wodehouse, I'd choose stories of Jeeves and Wooster anyday.
Within the performing arts, drama calls for the greatest suspension of disbelief, and given that audiences are willing to make the effort, it is interesting that the most successful plays seem to be those that require the least of it. Take a bunch of witty characters, stick them in a situation and allow them to indulge in repartee - a winning formula, and one that Coward employs to good effect in the three plays here, all of which have their moments and would make for pleasurable viewing in the theater.
I have seen Blithe Spirit several times and it is a wonderful play, very funny and extremely clever. I have also used this play for a Play Reading as part of a drama group, it was a delight to take part in it with a group of my friends. The book also includes Hay Fever and Private Lives. Both plays are very silly and many times I was chuckling to myself! I certainly recommend these to anyone looking to read plays that will bring a smile to their face!
I knew little to nothing of Noel Coward's writing before this. He is highly sophisticated. More so, I think, than I feel I can relate to. Each play is witty in its own right, but I didn't always follow the trains of thought of many characters.I'm still interested enough that I would like to see a live production of each of these plays.
My first Noel Coward, and - well, such fun! Am going to see a production of Blithe Spirit, so after reading it I'm very much looking forward to the stage version. Loved the wit and snappy dialogue, and the impossible supernatural situations. I'll read the other two plays when I've put a bit of space between readings.
I read "Private Lives" and was decidedly unimpressed. I pretty much actively loathed all the characters, finding them all selfish and annoying.Then I saw the play and my opinion did a 180. Done right, this is one of the funniest and most delightful farces I've ever seen. Sometimes you really can't just rely on the book.
Why does some mathematical algorithm think that I would like this book? The internet hasn't been very good at recommending books for me that I actually like.Noel Coward is supposed to be some master of screwball comedy. Mostly he just had crazy people yelling at each other. Blithe Spirit was mildly entertaining, but I didn't like the other two plays.
Ground Zero for witty plays that were written in the Twenties or early 30's. Very classic in its style, and biting dialogue. Coward overreached in many cases, yet one realizes that there is only one Noel Coward, and that, is not a bad place to be at all.
The lightness of Coward's satire and frivolity is so breathtaking (a tradition Neil Simon would continue), you forget his characters are monsters of addiction and betrayal. He has a master's touch (also a great lyricist!).
The book that got me into my love of reading play scripts. All three of these plays are superbly sublime, each with their own array of infamour 'Coward' humour, with my particular favourite being Private Lives.
First learned about the playwright on Economist. Also learned that he wrote Private Lives at the Peace Hotel in Shanghai. More spirited (and less refined or elegant) than Wilde's plays. Sometimes it reads like a romantic movie script. Might check out the movie version sometime.
