https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8808.The_Adventures_of_Jimmy_Skunk
As a young child, I would lose myself for hours in the simple world of the wood and pond inhabited by Little Joe Otter, Buster Bear, Grandfather Frog, and terrorized by Farmer Brown's Boy. I can remember the very shelf, even the exact spot in the little library in Felton, CA where these books were kept.
I do not recall if Old Man Coyote plays a role in Danny Field Mouse's story or the other way around, but this concept was presented several times.
Great readGreat read with my 4 year old son. My son is now obsessed with skunks. And keeps reminding me that they eat beetles and eggs
I liked the way morals were told in an entertaining way.
I bet my daughter didn't feel she was being moralized at because she wanted to hear the whole book.
I've tried others that had a distinct 'moral' or 'value' and she hates it.(Books that go ...
blah.Burgess books are interesting entertaining and a good read.
A book is meant to entertain and if it did that, that works for me.The books themselves:Adventures of Jimmy Skunk: Jimmy is the butt of a bad joke gone wrong by Peter Rabbit.
See how he deals with Peter.
Enjoyable for an adult to read to a child.
Nog een verhaaltje voor het slapengaan van Burgess. Jimmy Skunk, het stinkdier, beleeft vele avonturen met zijn vrienden en medebewoners van het bos, de wei en de boomgaard.Het leuke is dat verschillende dieren telkens terugkomen in de verhalen, zoals Peter Rabbit, Buster Bear, Billy Possum, Sammy Jay... En ook de boerderij van boer Brown en zijn bewoners speelt een rol in het leven van de dieren.Ik hou wel van deze verhaaltjes.
We are continuing to love these books. I think the appeal lies in a few things for the kids. They are funny, the illustrations are well-done, and the author does a great job of drawing us into the story and creating believable adventures for the animals that live in the Green Meadow, the Green Wood, and Smiling Pool.I love the language, and how the stories tell moral lessons without getting preachy. It is woven into the story and, I think, situations that my kids can relate to. Highly recommend for the elementary years.
Loved reading allowed this book to my sons who are 3 and 5. Perfect for littles who love animals and parents who want good, quality literature to read to said littles! We are looking forward to reading lots more of these books!
They might have been ones I read before - but I didn't care a whit - they were great friends to me.I know that Rose Kennedy was famously dismissive of future President John Kennedy's love for the Burgess books as a child and referred to them in the most condescending of terms.
Harrison Cady's drawings in the original reinforcing this humanizing by placing the animals in country-style overalls that give the characters a sort of folksy-ness that Burgess aspired to."The Adventures of Jimmy Skunk" is one of my most favorite of the Green Forest series of books by Burgess.
I think I developed a love and appreciation of nature and animals from Burgess.
What's interesting about Burgess is that no one is purely good or bad - all the animals have shades of dark and light.
In this book, Peter Rabbit, who you think would be a good guy, pulls a trick on Jimmy Skunk, and then gets a comeuppance for it.
Jimmy Skunk and Unc Billy Possum would be portrayed as bad characters - creatures of the night, eaters of eggs - but they also have good characteristics.
I think it's high time these books make a come back!
The Thornton Burgess series in general is quite an endearing series of children's books, which do a fine job of being readable by young readers and having interesting plots and introducing young people to a variety of animals in a semi-anthropomorphized way.
This particular entry, "The Adventures of Jimmy Skunk" is excellent, and it's a delightful read for a youngster, or for an older person who is willing to be a child again for the hour or so that it would take to read it.
Certainly, I have no objection to other characters appearing in the story, but it did seem that Burgess got a bit distracted from his main character occasionally.
I really have no idea why, but Thornton Burgess books are just adored in my household. My 4 year old (who is easily distracted during read-alouds) is riveted by this author. We chose Jimmy Skunk after finishing up Blacky the Crow because it was $1.00 on Amazon (shipped Prime) and all the rest were $2-$3. The chapters are short and you learn a lot about the habits of the actual animals in the process of reading the narrative.
This one focused much more on Peter Rabbit for the first plot, and more on Ol' Billy Possum for the second plot than it did on Jimmy Skunk. I would have liked to learn more about skunks, but maybe there just isn't much to learn: everyone knows they're mainly nocturnal, and they spray a horrible smell when threatened. But the charm of the characters was still there, and the good lessons for children (don't play practical jokes, karma, and don't lose your temper) were present as well.
We read an absolute boat-load of Thornton Burgess's stories when our two children were little ... they absolutely loved these adventures. One of their favorites was this one about Jimmy Skunk. Thornton Burgess's tales are so sweetly written with enough misadventure to satisfy young appetites !!
Awesome book I loved it It was the best book I ever read!!!!!!!!!Loved it..........just the best book ever, Jimmy skunk obviously was my favourite character,and I have a suggestion you should make a book called the adventures of Peter rabbit.
Was overjoyed to find the books of Burgess at Librivox.com. My favourite book as a child was The Adventures of Little Joe Otter, so it this was purely a nostalgic read/listen. This book was fun and full of hokey morals and great characters and silly situations. Great stuff.
Love how the author puts in character lessons throughout the story of the animals. And how Farmer Brown's boy doesn't have a name, but he knows the animal's names. Hah!
Awesome childrens story,narrator does well!
A charming story or collection of stories - not really sure what to call it. My youngest (9yo at the time) absolutely loved it.
Great series by Burgess
x3
BR3-Bur
The Adventures of Jimmy Skunk is one of the classics. I just re-read it to see if it's appropriate for my 3.5 yr old. Enjoyed it just as much as the first 26 times I read it.
A great book to read aloud to kids! I like all the books in this series, but, this is my favourite.
