https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/400393.Red_Star_Over_China
He takes carefully guided tours around the held territories, takes trips to the front, and conducts lengthy interviews with such eminent and heroic personages as Zhu De, Peng Duhai (later purged, then rehabilitated), Zhou Enlai, and the Great Helmsman himself.Mao's autobiographical narrative dominates several chapters of the book, and contains many details which are under factual dispute today.
I also thought a new historical analysis could be done on how the book itself was a massive propaganda coup in the West for Mao, and he later admitted as such.A book of historical value, but not what it for what it was originally famous.3.5 stars.
I felt compelled to read this book since I moved to China, but struggled through it for the past 6 months. I wanted to be "informed" about Mao Zedong and communism, and now I am. But it wasn't life-changing to read. As has been proven, communism looks good in theory, but doesn't work like it's designed to when practiced.
There's no question that Snow's account is fantastic, and he has a journalist's knack for setting the scene, telling the story, and sketching the characters.The only question is what is and is not valid.Snow's most exciting bit of journalism, the telling of the tale of the Battle of Luding Bridge, was reported secondhand to him, and almost certainly an exaggeration of actual events.
And it becomes suspicious when the Kuomintang are so uniformly evil, and the communist partisans so uniformly virtuous.
But I'd like to read something a bit less hagiographic.
It's the closest thing to a first-hand biography of Mao that we have, providing valuable insight into the people and the early history of today's Communist Party of China.
It's an excellent resource as recounts much of the national mythology of the Communist Party in a clear, concise manner.
Snow tells the story of the Long March and the crossing of the Luding Bridge, pieces of which are enshrined in the Military Museum of the China People's Revolution in Beijing.Anyone who seriously wants to make a study of today's China owes it to themselves to read this book.
This, however, is a first-rate journalistic account of what Red China looked like in 1936 and of the formation of the CCP according to the people who founded it.
Yes, it's difficult to know if what Snow reports on is "real" or a show put on by the Communists (something Snow himself acknowledges), but it does not detract from an excellent travelogue written by a person (who, incidentally, was the first Western journalist to visit Red China and meet with Mao) who is clearly excited about witnessing revolutionary change and the possibilities it may bring.
Thanks, Snow, for legitimizing the tyrant, soon-to-be emperor Mao, who was, without a doubt, one of history's most evil people. He fed you lies and you swallowed them all, then disseminated them to the world, with little to no critical thinking on your part. This garbage book should have been taken off the market long ago.
The book describes how the Chinese Communist Party could establish a strong base in northern Shaanxi province amidst Japanese invasion of Manchuria and Kuomintang (KMT) Encirclement Campaigns.
The Red area (indicating areas controlled by the CCP, including northern Shaanxi and a part of Gansu) was described as a 'truly' society than any other areas in China.
Mao Zedong insisted on a United Front policy, which gained him popular support from Chinese people.In China's Great Hall of the People nowadays, it can be noted that a Red Star is shining above in the center of the ceiling.
However, Snow’s own insights into China’s issues made the level of the book unfamiliar; his comments about the Red Army’s land policies and the analysis of Chiang’s regime and swept out the foreign "experts on China’s issues" a few light years away.
Yet, after all, it was not Snow's own energy.
The people themselves- given by history- is the culmination of a glorious romance in the process of human liberation.
Ps. There are too many lovely clips in this book...
Peng always eats watermelon.
Mao strips his pants in the face of Snow and Lin Biao.
It’s high time for me to recollect something I acquired during my enjoyment of this book Red Star Over China.
At last, I want to quote one of the reviews from a famous community ‘Douban’, “if I lived at time, and read this book, I would pack all my stuff and join the army directly.” Yes, this is a great book, describing a miracle through history made by those intellectual elites of china, and what’s more, possessing the most charming spell from the outstanding journalist Edgar Snow.
It took a long time to get through this. It is a view of Mao Dze Dong through an uncritical lens. It is dated.Since it was written contemporaneously with the history covered there is value there, but I personally don't have the prerequisite reading done to have gotten the most out of this one.
Before I did not read it，I am not interested in it，but when I open this book, I was attracted by it deeply. I love this book very much. This is a book worthy of reading.
I read this for a course in Modern Chinese history. Snow lionized Mao. The bigger they are the harder they fall.
Consider two of the most popular English-language biographers of the Great Helmsman.Journalist Edgar Snow wrote “Red Star Over China” in 1937, when the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) was hardly known in the West.
It’s a winsome combination of brawn and brains.By 2005, when Jung Chang and Jon Halliday published “Mao: The Unknown Story”, the CCP had moved away from Maoist policies, but stuck to the line that he was 70 percent good and 30 percent bad.
The title of “The Unknown Story” is a giveaway; the authors’ driving motivation was the conviction that Mao was still not widely understood.The authors judged correctly: a lack of information and the extremes of his life left ample room for different versions of Mao’s story.
Edgar Snow’s Red Star Over China recorded the maturing Communist Party during the 1930’s.
He went to the Shaanxi Soviet base with lots of questions about China’s revolution and CCP (China Communist Party).
This trip provides him true and objective resources and helped him came away with the first authorized account of Mao Zedong’s life.The interviews with Mao, communist leaders, anonymous Red farmers, workers, soldiers, and scholars demonstrate a flourishing and vigorous communist base and the spirit, enthusiasm, and passion of Chinese.
The Shaanxi Soviet Base under Snow’s pen was in fact the most democratic and incorruptible place in China.
The premise of the book is unassuming enough: Snow, an American journalist with a command of Chinese, ventures into Communist occupied territory during the bizarre diplomatic kaleidoscope that was 1930's China.
Yet the characters that Snow introduces to us along the way are what make this work a delight.
The Chinese revolutionaries overcome their challenges with as much fortitutde and success as the fictitious (propagandized) characterized portrayed in "Atlas Shrugged." Yet these were real, breathing humans who were united by a common purpose.
Snow juxtaposes the personal side of a very dehumanizing struggle with the political and international realities that faced this strange conglomeration of Chinese society.
Edgar Snow was taken under chairman Mao's wing and as a result became the unofficial spokesman to the Western world for the Chinese Red Army.
The book is not very critical of the Chairman nor of Zhou Enlai.
Snow had an unwavering optimism just as Reed did in Russia during the 10 days that shook the world.This book is a better read than Snow's slender volume on the cultural revolution (which was all in all highly in favor of it).Spence's biography of Mao covers more of a time range and is more balanced and certainly less hagiographic.
For those who are open minded and objective, this book will challenge the traditional Western views of the Chinese Communist revolution.
This book being written by a seemingly honest and objective American journalist, will give an alternative first hand account of Mao and many of the other Chinese leaders and the revolution itself.
This is not a book for everybody, hence a 3 star rating.
It isn't an overly exciting book of first hand accounts of strategic battles or key events.
History buffs will enjoy this book, as much as I did from a cultural perspective.
Be advised that several of Mao's answers were scripted, and Snow himself acknowledges this in the text.
However, Snow spent enough time with these people to ensure that this account couldn't possibly be a total lie.
They say that 'between two conflicting accounts of a story the truth is somewhere in the middle." We often hear about how Mao was a monster and how he had all his flaws and sins, but this book helps tell us the other side of the story.
To that end, anyone interested in Revolutionary China should read this rather entertaining book.
Though its perspective could be much more critical, Snow’s account of his visit to Red Shaanxi in 1937, just after the Long March, still makes for engaging reading and provides an invaluable and detailed account of the Red leadership and army at one fascinating moment.
The long biographical sections on key leaders—Mao, Zhou, Zhu De, among others—are mostly records of those men’s own accounts, but are still better than most of Snow’s own reporting.
Not quite John Reed Lite, but Snow does get a fascinating end of the story, and makes you want to believe in the voting, the theater troupes, the colorful personalities, and all the rest.
This book is a fascinating picture of a world unfathomable to the modern citizen. Written before the beginning of the second world war and during the guerilla movements of the Communists in Nationalist China, the novel brings to life a man who in western culture is little more than a symbol. Written in 1937 the book is a collection of conversations between the communist leader and the first white man to ever hold a interview with him. As eye opening as it is enjoyable, this book is a must read for anyone trying to comprehend chinese revolutionary motives.
A wonderfully detailed account of that of the Chinese Revolution. It encompasses the Guomindang's "extermination campaigns" against the Communists, the Long March, the Communists' efforts to build an Anti-Japanese United Front, and the New Democratic Revolution, as well as some cursory information from before and after these periods. This is a must-read for anyone interested in Mao Zedong and the Chinese revolution.
This is a really fascinating first-hand account of what Edgar Snow was shown of the Chinese Communist Party's activities in the 1930's. He's a bit too ready to believe what he's told, I think, but you will find here a first-hand Westerner's view into what was going on with the CCP, something that is difficult to find.
While Edgar Snow was no doubt a decent writer, Red Star Over China is far from a "first-rate" piece of journalism as possible. The mere fact that Edgar Snow sent in his transcripts and interviews to be reviewed and edited by the Party before publishing should really serve as a red flag about the reliability of such report.
Excellent account of young U.S. journalist's time spent with the Red Armay shortly after the Long March. New insight into Mao's character at that time. Fantastic biography/notes. Drawback--far too many names and places thrown at reader. Originally published 1938--I read a 1968 edition.
This was really superb. Easy to read. Gave a clear picture of the lives of individuals within the context of what happened in China. I've made a note that it would be the best book to re-read if I wanted a re-cap at a later stage.
I suppose this is an important primary source, but without a deeper understanding of Chinese history at the time, I got a bit lost in all the troop movements and battles. Still provided some interesting insights into the beginnings of China's communist revolution.
One of my first books on China. Was part of a reading assignment for a class on Chinese history while at USM. This book just fueled my 9th grade desire to visit China which Ellis and I finally visited in April, 2009.
I know recent "revisionist" works (which I do intend to read) challenge its enthusiastic (although not completely uncritical) view, but still... what a work of magnificence. I can't wait to get started on the sequel, The Long Revolution...
Even though he was to become an unquestioning booster of Mao's regime, Snow's first journalistic tome on China is well worth reading. A thrill a minute, gripping and bizarre, with some amazing characters.
Just started this. Reading alongside the new bio on Mao. Read an interview with the founder of Grove Press in a recent issue of Book Forum, and he claimed this to be one of his top 3 favorite books to read. Got me interested....
