https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17156.The_Warrior_Queens
"A singular exception [...] a woman is often acknowledged the absolute sovereign of a great kingdom, in which she would be deemed incapable of exercising the smallest employment, civil or military" Gibbon, Decline and Fall of the Roman EmpireMy first Antonia Fraser history book - An experience filled with pleasant surprise regarding the level of research that went into it.
(view spoiler)[My prior knowledge of Fraser was limited to her writing popular history books (hide spoiler)]Centered around Boudica (view spoiler)[Supposedly Boudicea is the spelling that the British are most used to - thanks to Queen Victoria - I have only seen Boudicca.
Though Fraser does spend time talking about how the different spellings arose, as well as what they meant for the development of The Warrior Queen.
Surprisingly in depth considering that this is a book that examines many subjects, Fraser examines both the history in facts and the way in which warrior queens have been presented as social entities. Very thoroughly researched and referenced - although it must be noted that some information is not up to date, which is not surprising given the release date of the latest edition.
I finished this book and exhaled loudly while screaming FINALLY!
But, good God, this book is dry.
Maybe I am just not bright enough to appreciate it.But I'm giving it three stars for a few reasons: 1) I now know about Caterina Sforza taunting soldiers who were about to kill her children by lifting her skirt to show her pregnancy and saying, "You fools!
Enough said; 3) A few choice anecdotes about the remaining queens that I couldn't help but read aloud to anyone within earshot.
I still can't believe I am done reading this book.
Then it tries to tell the stories of these Warrior Queens with a chapter apiece, but the author insists on comparing everybody to Boadicea (both the legend and the historical figure).
Why wasn't that included in Boadicea's chapter?The author also gets bits of history wrong - Isabella's family tree as she explains the succession.
The lack of detail is understandable in the earliest stories where there is little written history and/or it is unreliable, but I expected the stories to include more detail as the book progressed and that simply didn't happen.Don't completely give up on Fraser - her biography on Marie Antoinette is excellent, and she probably should adapted that format for this book - sort histories of Warrior Queens and their achievements.
WARRIOR QUEENS is okay, but Lady Antonia obviously likes the modern queens more than the ancient ones.
She spends as much time on parades and pageantry in the 19th century, where "symbolic" warrior queens just bless the troops and appear in very becoming but only sort-of military poses, as she does on actual fighting women in the ancient world, like Boudica of England.
It's also noticeable that with Boudica Lady Antonia plays down the bloody war and butchery and plays up the Roman era that came later.
In using rebelling against the norm while perpetuating the stereotype of the weak and virtuous female these monarchs and rulers managed to keep their positions and become celebrated icons (to this day); while those who refused to play by the rules were slandered, publicly and physically humiliated and some of them were forced to take their lives (such as Boudicca, Cleopatra, etc) or die in battle (the Rani of Jhani).
It's an engrossing account that doesn't end with a simple everything is okay now but makes the points that many of these attitudes on women have changed very little and women leaders today still have to use certain stereotypes to be accepted.
It was an okay book but I have to say the author's continous usage of "syndrome" did make one think that there was something wrong with the women!
Also a little too much of "warrior" women in the European world and not so much with other countries.
I guess in the 80s her research was limited but even so there must have been other women known then like Nurjahan during the Mughual period of India and I can't believe there was only one queen to cite in Africa!
Nor was I that compelled for Indira Ghandi, I think I'll leave my own personal politics out of this, as it is a book review and not a political debate.

Link to my review of this book:http://flhwnotesandreviews.com/2015/0...
However, I found the structure of this book somewhat convoluted and confusing, and it didn't really give the insight I was expecting on key female historical figures.Fraser has based the book around the history of Iceni Queen Boadicea/Boudica - a fascinating story, however almost half of the book is about her - which is surprising as so little is known of the 1st century AD queen.
This means that the prose tends to digress from the subject at hand and is therefore difficult to keep track of.Also, when Fraser then writes of other historic 'warrior queens', she continually relates back to Boadicea - which provides some interesting viewpoints not ordinarily explored (especially for Elizabeth I, my personal favourite historical figure here).
Couldn't resist this one, what with all the gender & power issues swirling around Hillary Clinton's bid for President.
But in the end I felt that Fraser attempted to cover too much ground between the covers of this book.
Also, as a non-Brit, I was not previously familiar with the story of Boadiccea and it was difficult to piece it all together from the author's non-linear storytelling.
Nevertheless, it was an informative read, and it has profoundly influenced my perspective as an observer of (and a voter for!) women in positions of leadership.
I really enjoyed this book.
I think I was thrown off in the beginning because she kept saying that this book was a study of Warrior Queens.
The first 3 chapters read like a text book to me.
But once the book started flowing, and each chapter was a different Warrior Queen, I really enjoyed it.
It also gave me lots of women to try to find books on and maybe learn even more about these remarkable Warrior Queens.
If she wasn't a Warrior Queen I don't know the meaning of the words.
This was an interesting book but not enough detail for me. I wanted more information on each woman, but at least it gives an overview of several women from history.
2.5 stars, rounded up because at least it included some non-European queens for a changeThis book was so dry, it was impossible to read more than a chapter at a time and even then it would take me days to summon up enough courage to tackle the next one. The information it imparts is useful and I learnt a lot I didn't already know - including about some women, the Rani of Jhansi for instance, I hadn't heard of before - but I wish it had been presented in a more accessible and easily-digestable way.
Certainly one could argue that the many female leaders of the 20th century (most notably, Margaret Thatcher) inspired Fraser to consider writing such a book; but I thought she devoted an even amount of space to the women across the centuries.That said, I can't say this one ranks up there with Faith and Treason.
The more strongly feminist threads, then, did not appeal to me, but the book does point out interesting historical themes that did strike me as worthwhile (even if they are called "syndromes," which, like another reviewer, I find rather annoying).
I find it difficult to describe my feelings on this book.
I feel like it made me think a lot, yet not in a coherent fashion.
I have enjoyed so many other books by this author, and was disappointed to find myself struggling through.
I learned bits and pieces about historical women I have never heard of, but not really enough about any of them to remember.
A quote from the end: "it can be argued that women need heroines even more than need need heroes because their expectations of independence, fortitude, and valour have generally speaking been so much lower."
I really enjoyed reading this. It examined how the tropes and misogynistic criticisms that were applied to women in power in the past, even the very distant past, are still applied to women in power today. I'd always wanted to know more about Boudica and Fraser used her as a model to compare the other Warrior Queens to, mostly to compare how they were perceived and described, and the situations in which they came to power. She also made sure to note how Boudica herself was perceived, or forgotten, during each of the Warrior Queen's reigns.
This is a good general history of women warrior queens. My only complaint is really Fraser should have clarified her archetypes in the beginning so when she referenced them within the text, it would have been clear.
Simply could not get into this book. I loved Fraser's biography of Marie Antoinette, and the subject matter for Warrior Queens is an instant hook for me. But, as my mother said when she tried to read it, this book reads like a textbook. Such a shame.
Very pro female. I enjoyed it very much. It is a nonfiction work describing nearly a dozen warring female leaders globally and throughout history. I checked it out of the ship's library and read it while touring Alaska.
Women warriors from Boadicea to Margaret Thatcher. Entertainingly written hiistory of various female rulers in various countries. Boadicea is used to draw feminist themes regarding the difficulty of acting militarily in a feminine way. Well worth the read.I do like Lady Toni.
One of my favorite books ever. Fraser is an engaging writer even on dry subjects. In this book, she has some of the most interesting people in history to work with. Read it!
A look at some brave women in history.
Initially a bought this book thinking it was a biography of some important queens in history, in reality this is an essay of the image of warrior queens with Boadicea as the linking figure.The autor starts explaining what is a warrior queen and which elements she will study for each of the women mentioned.
The women study here are, Boudica, Zenobia, Matilda of Tuscany, Tamara of Georgia, Isabella the Catholic, Catalina Sforza, Queen Nzinga of Angola, rani of Jhanzi, Louise of Prussia, Margaret Tatcher.The only problem with the book is that the authors assumes that the reader kmows english history and geography, and develops the queens that are related with the UK more that the ones not related.Overall is a good book to understand the develope of the figure of warrior queens, a bit slow to read but with a los of interesting information.
Along the way, Ms. Fraser also points out the attitudes of those closest to the action: the men who either admire or denigrate their female enemies, the other women who accuse them of indifference to the plight of ordinary females and the struggle of these women to walk the tightrope between mortal danger and immortal glory while fending off the attacks of those who simply can't bear female leaders.How much have people changed in modern times?
To be fair, the title should be more along the lines of "A history of Boudica and the legend of Boadicea (and some subsequent Warrior Queens and how they relate to her)".
Her other profiles were interesting but brief, and all analyzed in comparison to Boudica/Boadicea.The scholarly language was a little thick to wade through at times, and the constant repetition of the primacy of the one queen got tiresome.Given all of that, it is a good solid history that mostly manages to do its best to get the facts from primary sources and noting when those sources may themselves have been prejudiced.
I'm a little disappointed in this one since I generally enjoy Antonia Fraser's work.As other reviews note, this book is very fractured and poorly organized.
I won't judge an author for writing to a specific audience, and it seems that this book was prompted by the rise of Margaret Thatcher and the novelty of having another woman in power.Mostly I just got annoyed by the frequent non sequitors and tangents.
The writing style is quite dry despite much of (at least the early chapters) being primarily legend rather than fact, and the poor organization of the information left me spinning.I'll keep this and give it another try, but judging by other similar reviews, this is harly her best work.
This includes the popular British Boudica, Queen Elizabeth I, Catherine the Great (Russia), and lesser known ones (at least, outside their own cultural lineage) such as Mathilda of Tuscany, Rani of Jhansi (India), etc.More interestingly, the author presents viewpoints of how these women were perceived by their contemporaries and historians, especially males, and contrasts this with historical fact, and sometimes, legends.
Most of the women explored are European or from nations which the British had direct dealings with, such as Africa and India.
This was a very dense book which would be good for the scholar and not so much for general audience.
Her overall theme is based on an ancient British queen named Boudica, which is unexpected when one reads the title of the book.
In general it seems as though there is not a lot of historical fact for many of the characters and therefore, she (the warrior queen) is talked about from others' perspectives and how she may be like (or different from) Boudica.
In general though, I learned about some interesting women which I had not previously known but would've liked it in a more "general audience" book.
This book is a wonderful reminder that women in history were far from tame--or meek.
It's been some years since I read Warrior Queens, however, its message certainly left an impression on me.
There are fantastical stories of brave women in antiquity who left their mark on the world; from an African Queen standing tall against the might of Rome to an Indian Noblewoman starting a rebellion against the British Empire, each is a story of unique power and self-determination.
If you're looking for a Herstory book, this is one for the list.
