https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3832.Cover_Her_Face
I switched from modern cozies and crime fiction to a supposed blast from the past.
I remembered a few PD James novels I read in college as part of my mystery fiction independent studies and decided to start the series.
I enjoyed the characters and premise for a traditional whodunit!I also like the wrap up of all the main characters in the end, as well as that at least one of them is seen again in future novels (no spoilers here!).If you're a traditional mystery buff, or have an avid whodunit interest, you may be able to figure the culprit on your own, but rest assured, it's not as simple as X did it the candlestick in the library!Remember the movie Clue!!!
After my brain injury, PD James became a marker for me in my reading progress.
Pre-injury I read every one of her books and enjoyed them tremendously for their good writing and good stories.
After my injury though, with my reading ability fried, I couldn't read any of her books.
Too many characters to follow, plots that meandered beyond my ability to follow, writing at a grade level higher than what I'd sunk down to...
Also, the story is reminiscent of a couple of Agatha Christie mysteries (which I continued to reread after my brain injury), making the plot familiar in several ways.
Nažalost, kod nas je bila popularnija serija snimljena po romanima o inspektori Daglišu nego sami roman P.D. Džejms... :) Ko je još nije čitao neka požuri, mnogo je propustio :)
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Triteness and Boringness: "Cover Her Face” by P.
D. JamesSometimes people just like to talk about the books they're reading.
Unless you think reading should just be restricted to the real intelligentsia, among whom some people obviously count themselves.
So, unless those people have evidence that re-reading causes cancer or blows up the WC, why not back off and let the rest of us do what we like.
"Oh, I'm re-reading ‘Cover Her Face’.” Yes, there are people who like to brag about re-reading the Shakespeare plays, but most of us are just trying to be accurate.
I have not read the first Adam Dalgleish novel for some time, so it was a pleasure to return to P D James and her very first book.
As well as the housework and cooking, Mr Maxie is bedridden, so Mrs Maxie employs Sally Jupp, an unmarried mother as a house-parlourmaid.
I found the way Sally Jupp was presented as both a sympathetic victim, and yet essentially a young woman that nobody seemed to like, cleverly done and there were plenty of twists and turns.
This reads very much as a stand alone novel, although, as we know, Dalgleish was to become a much loved and long running character.
It's been a long time since I read a book by this author, but I think I remember having liked them.
Whatever the reason, I was really unimpressed by this book.
Most of the suspects were introduced in tedious detail in the first chapter, but the murder did not occur until about the 25% point of the book.
He was barely in the book other than to conduct long interviews with the suspects and then, in the ultimate cliché, gather them all together in one room to declare the crime solved.
I didn't really dislike this book, I've just moved on.
DudAll that case build-up for naught 😐
All the clichés are there: the stately home, the nerve-ridden war hero, the lower classes kowtowing to the upper, the vicar a sort of go-between in terms of social status.
It seems almost impossible that English society was that hidebound just fiftysomething years ago.The story wasn’t bad, apart from the tendency the characters had to explain their actions very carefully in chronological order, helpful if you’re the sort of mystery fan who loves the timetable aspect of investigation but not very realistic.
although, of course, if I remember anything of the Dalgleish stories I read, she tended to adopt the closed-community scenario where people were sort of stranded in time.
I was working in London the summer of the year this book was first published but only now have I got round to reading it for the Kindle English Mystery Group.
D. James shared with her friend Ruth Rendell the honour of making the detective story into a serious literary genre, Cover Her Face seems now to belong to the world of Agatha Christie than to ours, where crime fiction is the form of the novel that best engages serious moral and spiritual issues.
Of course it was James and Rendell who accomplished it.
I need to read Innocent Blood again to experience the difference.
Meh. P.D. James is a competent writer and puts together a reasonable mystery, but there's nothing exciting about it -- I felt like I'd read it before, honestly. The Kindle version has very bad formatting, too ("that" turns into "mat", for example); no one bothered to proofread it. None of the characters are particularly interesting to me -- again, I seemed to have read all about them before, in other crime novels.I think I had the same reaction to another P.D. James book, so maybe I just don't care for James' work.
However, Ms. James does conveniently write, 'his thoughts were,' or 'she thought,' etc.., but if you read quite speedily and are accustomed to quotation marks indicating spoken dialogue, well then, get with the program!
(I love this about murders set in English country homes - they always have these hangers-on about who just mess up things in a lively and entertaining manner.)Of course Mr. Adam Dalgliesh - or Detective Chief Inspector - is called in to solve the case, and he does, quite handily.
It all makes for a lively and fascinating read.(I especially love the fascination of locked and unlocked doors when it comes to English country homes.
This was James’ first crime novel, debuting DCI Adam Dalgliesh who gets far less character padding or attention than the victim, suspect pool, or even his accompanying sergeant.
I enjoy James’ character building enormously, it’s really her forte, and especially the way she often leaves Dalgliesh to the role of observer, concentrating on the crime rather than the draw of a serialised detective.
The Maxies have taken in Sally Jupp, single mother, and recent resident of a refuge for women in similar ‘trouble’, to be their maid.
Sally proves to be ambitious, secretive and a trouble maker.
I'm beginning to think by some coincidence the very first PD James I read also happened to be the only interesting book she's ever written. Honestly, I would really like to like her, but I can't.  Cover Her Face  is her first novel and I wonder how she ever became successful this way. It suffers from all the flaws I've found pervasive in her other novels – boring descriptions, unlikeable characters, and zero suspense. The mystery plot has a lot of painstakingly crafted red herrings and clues, bu
I'm beginning to think by some coincidence the very first PD James I read also happened to be the only interesting book she's ever written.
Cover Her Face
It suffers from all the flaws I've found pervasive in her other novels – boring descriptions, unlikeable characters, and zero suspense.
The only indication James ever gives that Dalgliesh is not a robot is that every now and then she'll have him think about his dead wife.
The cover blurbs set him up as a rival to Ngaio Marsh's Alleyn, but um...
Afraid I'm done with PD James.
I see Dalgliesh is James' recurring detective character, but we don't get a strong personality here. The rest of the cast, on the other hand, is a bit more complex and developed than is standard for this sort of mystery. As usual I disliked them all, and the one that I found most interesting was on page the least. At least the romance was kept to a minimum.
I like keeping a crime novel handy sometimes when I’m reading a nonfiction book.
I tend to find fiction a bit more relaxing, and would prefer not to read a book like The Omnivore’s Dilemma (the other book I’m reading) before bed.
This was James’ debut novel, and it reads quite assuredly for being such.
I don’t mean that the identity of the killer was unsurprising; I mean that, in general, the book stuck well within the confines of its genre.
One thing I found notable – and quite liked – was the beginning of the novel.
I’m sure I’ll read more P.D. James – but I’m in no hurry.
The oldies are the best.
And then, of course, a body was discovered and the mystery was on.This is all to say that prose and characterization are the best of this.
By that I don't mean that there wasn't enough mystery - I had as many ideas who was the perpetrator as there were characters from which to choose.
It is that James' prose and characterization is better than one might expect for a detective novel.
I do hope, however, that in subsequent installments, I come to know Inspector Dalgliesh and Sergeant Martin better, as, strangely enough, these characterization is the least fleshed out.My disappointment actually comes from too much interaction between the suspects and not spending enough time with the investigators.
Some little pieces of data are given in each installment about Dagliesh that help you to know the character better, but does not affect the reading of the book at hand.
The current Mr. Maxie is on his death bed – and has been on the deline for several years – being taken care of by his wife, Mrs. Maxie, and the housekeeper, Martha, a long-time retainer.
Mrs. Maxie feels the strain of both keeping up the manor and taking care of Mr. Maxie and so hires on a young girl, Sally Jupp, from the local home for unwed mothers to help out.
I've previously read a couple of other PD James' Inspector Dalgleish mysteries before and enjoyed very much.
This is the first Dalgleish mystery and I must say I enjoyed as much as the others I've read.
Dalgleish is almost a peripheral character in the story, James rather focusses on the other characters/ suspects and their activities, motivations as she develops the story.
The story follows Dalgleish as he performs his policework, interrogating the family members, travelling around the area to discuss Sally's character and past with family members and other relations.
Adam Dalgliesh is my favorite P.D. James character, and though I have read many of the novels and seen most of the BBC productions featuring him, I had never actually read this 1962 book, the first in the series.
It was very interesting to see the character introduced, and gratifying to find this an engrossing read, full of the sensitivity to motivations and subtexts -- as well as the overarching class consciousness -- expected from a fine British novelist.
Dalgliesh's personal history is barely touched upon in a single paragraph, which I also found interesting.
Was able to finish this book but couldn't really care how it ended up - not one redeeming character and very little development of the Detective.
I'm assuming this is because this is a series so why make me like the Detective and want me to read more about him and his cases.
To be fair I should read at least one more in the series to see if it gets better (based on other reviews it sounds like it gets better).
However, reading another in this series is far down on my list.
Of the two, I think James is the better murder mystery writer - based on the proof of this one book.
Her writing is more realistic and true to life.
Her characters are more nuanced and three dimensional than Christie's.Agatha Christie's books are all focussed on the crime with normal life happening somewhere on the periphery.
James' book is about - and centered on - normal life.
The normalcy is upended by a crime and the book deals with how each character adjusts to that disruption.
D. James' writing.
I will definitely be reading more of her murder mysteries in the future.
El principio fue un poco lento y después se puso algo más interesante. Aunque está bien escrito no me parece el mejor de la autora quizás por ser el primero. Se parece mucho a otros policiales ingleses, con los nobles en la casa de campo, los parientes, el pueblito cercano, etc. Ninguna sorpresa (hay un solo giro interesante en toda la trama).El final es decepcionante y hasta me resultó algo aburrido.
In typical fashion he interviews all the suspects, looks beyond the obvious solutions, and in a confrontation gets the killer to admit to the crime.
Few other writers today capture the feeling of Christies mysteries, and P.D. James does a great job of that.
But I found the pace slow as she spends a long time building up the backgroud before we get to the crime.
Inspector Dalgliesh was an excellent sleuth, as the hints to his background were enought to be intriguing but not enough to answer all the readers questions.
On this narration, the reader did a good job, but not an excellent one.
This is another of P.D. James' very early Dalgliesh novels.
Much like UNNATURAL CAUSES, it displays a certain dated view of society no longer seen in the 21st century.
Whereas it is displayed in UNNATURAL CAUSES in the author's attitude toward disability, in COVER HER FACE it emerges in the portrayal of an unwed mother as a sly, deceitful, and wicked person who happens to be physically beautiful, but is targeted by virtually everyone around her a sinner and a wretch from whom gratitude is expected.

Began 24 April 2008. Lots of background info. Slow start.First mystery I've read by P.D. James. Not bad--certainly got better as it went along; she lays a lot of foundation and then builds on it. However, at the end of the book she leaves you with the promise of more interesting things to come for her hero, Adam Dalgleish, in future books.
I got used to it but it sounded like it had been recorded in 1962 when written rather than 2008!None of the people I suspected might be the killer of maid Sally Juup turned out to be the one.
The murder occurs about a 1/4 of the way into the book, after we've seen a bit of Sally Juup and know she is probably a bit of a schemer but as the story goes on we find out how very much a schemer she was.
Sally is the one murdered - just after she's announced that the young man of the house -- Dr. Stephen Maxie -- has asked her to marry him.
P.D. James first novel and is the first one I have read.
A cracking good mystery with a few clues and a myriad of red herrings.
Sally Jupp was a very sneaky and unlikeable woman who liked to play games with peoples minds.
Bolted doors, drugged drinks, ladders and a list of suspects that all hated her.
The family she was the maid, foster parents and a jealous woman as well as Martha the cook.
The Maxie dysfunctional family and hanger ons created a great background with Inspector Adam Dalgliesh there to bring all the clues together.
Really looking forward to reading more P.D. James.
I recently read a Dagliesh mystery and decided to go back and read the first book by P.D. James that featured this character. Cover Her Face introduces this enigmatic character who has become famous in England and across the pond. This mystery takes place at a quintessential British manor and multiple suspects abound in the death of a servant who has created an atmosphere of fear and hate among the residents of the manor. Through skillful interviews, Dagliesh gets to the crux of the matter despite many possible suspects.
