https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/352087.Attack_upon_Christendom
Though not making individual judgments (except in the case of the bishop) the author condemns the general attitude of a supposedly Christian nation full of "knavish tradesman" with "odious" lifestyles who in death become mirror images of Christ and his disciples.
Later, K expands the idea, stating that "when all are Christians, Christianity eo ipso does not exist" which, balanced against his assertion that Christianity is available to "every one...if he wills it", demonstrates the point of his writing: society at large had/has an idea of a corporate church and God, but no desire to have a personal relationship with Christ or live a life dedicated to sacrifice on his behalf.
262."In that way Christianity came into the world, being served by witnesses who were willing absolutely to suffer everything for their faith, and actually had to suffer, to sacrifice life and blood for the truth." p 271
You’ll question your own take on the New Testament, wondering if you actually read the same one as Kierkegaard.If you’re a non-Christian reader: you’ll be astounded at how complicated the church actually is.
It is incredibly refreshing to read someone who is not at all interested in defending the faith (he actually can’t defend it because he is far too busy attacking the manifestation of it) - if you’re reading his work, he assumes you’ve already established your own position.
You see an intense transformation from the man who wrote "The Seducer's Diary" to "Attack Upon Christendom."I have to admit, I am not familiar with Kierkegaard's inspirations.
I would argue, however, that Kierkegaard has had a heavy impact on modern-day "radicals" like John Piper, Francis Chan, and David Platt, whether directly or indirectly.
We do know that Kierkegaard was an important influence on German theologian and martyr Dietrich Bonhoeffer, as he is often directly quoted in Bonhoeffer's works.
His transformation into true radicalism was fully realized by the time he wrote these essays, and his passion remains largely unrivaled to this day.
This is not a delineation between the "nominal Christians" and the "real Christians" as the Christian community likes to say indignantly, but rather a sucker punch to all who claim the name Christian, even the most earnest, who do so without a sense of suffering and fear.This is a collection of essays - a collection of collections of essays actually (sub-books) - which make up the great work of Attack on Christendom.
Kierkegaard doesn't whitewash the situation with empty adages like "everyone's a sinner", but demands sincerity, and subsequently, fear and trembling.This book will appeal to those who have sensed a great inauthenticity among Christianity, however, I find myself reluctance to recommend it to Christians.
One can trace the Barthian grace-nature split, and Christ and world opposition in Kierkegaard who insist in no uncertain terms that Christianity is about suffering and hating oneself and the world and for suffering for the next world and for the truth which must necessarily be in complete opposition to this world which is drenched in sin and wickedness and corruption and can't stand the truth and would not fail to persecute it.I guess I gave it four stars for it's sheer bracing fury and literary prowess as he tears right through the humbug of establishment Christianity and natural alliance between Christianity and the world.
Not for everyone, but for the right person, kind of a blast.
This collects a bunch of screeds Kierkegaard wrote excoriating the church of his day for being fat, self-satisfied, complacent, and entirely indistinguishable from being a good Danish bourgeois.
Kierkegaard wants instead the wild Christianity of saints, the kind of Christianity that would involve icky things like crucifixion, goofy things like resurrection, and annoying things like self-examination.
He wants you to take personal responsibility for being such a self-centred jerk all the time.
He can write like crazy, and it's good stuff, surprisingly relevant -- but will mostly be of interest to scholars and people having the kind of arguments Kierkegaard was having.
"People who themselves have their heart in the throat, upon the lips, in the trousers, in short, everywhere except in the right place, quite naturally blame for heartlessness precisely that man who has his heart in the right place. That is to say, after they have vainly looked for his heart in every place they know of, they are convinced that he has no heart; for he has it in the right place, and it does not occur to them to look there."My own words shall follow, once the maelstrom has subsided.
Well, I didn't totally finish it. It's very well-written, and Kierkegaard's satire is at its sharpest. But it is just really, really repetitive. In context, at the time, as an ongoing argument, it makes sense. But I can't say I read it all--it didn't take long to get the point. Some very good points are made, though, even for modern Christians.
This is the compilation of letters and articles Kierkegaard wrote to those in the Danish State Church, specifically naming Mynster and Martensen among others. His desire is a return to New Testament Christianity and an honest confession of corruption from the Danish church. Definitely a book worth reading at this time in American history.
Recommended by Frank Cooper. Excellent book.
None
Viewed by many as an attack but upon reading should be used as a helpful tool in bettering your christian ideals/lifestyle
Meh. Kind of petty.
