https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/746936.Margin_of_Safety
Top 5 Quotes / Thoughts:1. Page 5: “You don’t understand. these are not eating sardines, they are trading sardines” [Difference between investment (buying stream of cashflows) and speculation (return solely dependent on re-sale).]2. Page 81: “Buffet’s first and second rules of investing: 1) don’t lose money; and 2) never forget the first rule” [Don’t expose yourself to appreciable loss of principal. Make sure that your downside is bounded (Taleb).] a. Compound interest is the 8th wonder of the w
Page 81: “Buffet’s first and second rules of investing: 1) don’t lose money; and 2) never forget the first rule” [Don’t expose yourself to appreciable loss of principal.
Page 84: “The future is uncertain… Investors must be willing to forego some near-term return, if necessary, as an insurance premium against unexpected and unpredictable adversity”a.
Page 218: “there is only one valid rule for selling: all investments are for sale at the right price” (similar to Outsiders)4.
Page 110: “Low risk-high-return opportunities exist…” (Three causes: 1) asymmetry of information; 2) difficult to analyse; 3) vendor or purchaser acting for reasons unrelated to value)5.
Anyone interested in taking a hands-on approach to their portfolios would benefit from Klarman's guidance in Margin of Safety.
He discusses past market environments that provided great opportunity for value investors to show that they do occur and this strategy does work.
My one criticism is against Klarman's sharp criticism of index funds, as I believe they are a reasonable cost-effective choice for many hands-off investors.
However, the pros in this book far outweigh the cons, making Margin of Safety a good read for current and aspiring investors.
I read this book after reading "Fooled by Randomness", and that had left me wondering whether trading/investing is really purely random or can there really be method to the madness.
The book is a fascinating read, especially for someone with a non-finance background but fresh out of a B-School, where basic theoretical knowledge is covered but not how to actually go about investing in the real world whilst being risk-averse.
I hope to read Benjamin Graham's - The Intelligent Investor too, from which the book draws heavily the Value Investing methodology.
The two are a must read for people who want to build a career in investing.
Although I wouldn't spend $1000 for this book, he surprised me by summing up in a few simple sentences...- how the mortgage tranched CDOs are flawed,- how the rating agencies are claiming it was unforseeable, and- how it could all blow up by a credit crunch.But the most amazing part was that he did this in 1991 (when the book was published) and that is way before the mortgage CDOs were in full swing.I just wish I had read the book earlier.Brady Bunte
I had high hopes for this book since the ratings were amazing. However, I gave this book 2 stars because many of the ideas and concepts that were mentioned were already known to me. I also found this book more difficult to read than other investment books, perhaps due to the writing style.
First, a strong case for fundamental value investing as the only sound framework for making investment decisions; second is a scathing critique of "institutional investing," culminating with Klarman's ridicule of the "relative performance derby"; the last section of the book is Klarman's suggested process for determining value, and the construction and maintenance of portfolios.My favorite portion of this book is the critique of the "relative performance derby," and it's something I've gone back and re-read several times.
For example, I do think a long consistent track record of paying meaningful dividends is worth considering along with more direct value factors like P/E and P/B and I prefer the Graham/Lynch approach of diversifying into 20-30 stocks (versus focusing on 10 mega-picks) which I consider prudent and worth the slight reduction in potential return.
However, I was extremely impressed with the thoughtful and consistent approach presented throughout and found myself nodding at much of what Klarman had to say.
All in all, MoS is a must read for all Graham and Buffet disciples.
My only real complaint is that the book follows Graham's Intelligent Investor a little too closely.
Great outline about how to think about investing, and less about specific strategies to invest. Provides great lenses to look at investing followed by illlustrative anecdotes. Some of the actual advice is a bit dated (but to be expected given the age of the book). This book is a must read if you are interested in learning about how value investors (of which Seth Klarman is a legend) think.
Like Graham, Klarman's greatest claim to fame was this book he published: Margin of Safety- Risk Averse Strategies for the Thoughtful Investor bleck!
Klarman thinks its necessary to "continually compare their current holdings in order to ensure they own only the most undervalued opportunities available." Buffet says "When we own portions of outstanding businesses with outstanding managements, our favorite holding period is forever." I think Buffet is a less likely to sell just because he sees something better out there, while Klarman might try a little too hard to demand the best bargain as did Graham.
A lot of wisdom from personal S.Klarman experience, illustrated with real examples. However I find this book more suitable for novice investors who seek basic knowledge on value investing principles
Geeking it out in the rain. Re-reading a book I bought randomly at The Strand and read in 1996 when I first started in the business. I guess there was only one printing in 1991, and now it's impossible to find and goes for over $1000 for a decent copy on Amazon or Ebay. Hmmm.... Is actually a great primer on how to think like a smart professional investor. Concepts aren't hard, but I don't imagine it would be all that interesting for the individual investor.
Excellent. It was a far superior read the the intelligent investor as it 1) included all of the same ideas + some additional ones 2) wasn't sooo old, so the language was much clearer and easier to follow; 3) wasn't riddled with examples from the 60's(i.e. wasn't written from the perspective of being a "current" guide to the markets; 4) was significantly shorter/more concise.
Woke up regarding the meaning of Value. Very impactful book. Most important finding is that the value is outside S&P500, and probably at the top of the bottom-performers of the day, week, month.
If I'd paid the going rate for a used, poor condition copy of over $1000, I would be disappointed. The book has some good information, albeit much of it out of date. I disagreed with a lot of his notions around speculation and think Buffet communicates these sentiments much more reasonably and convincingly.
I have missed some good opportunities to make great fortune due to adherence to value investing and not following the herd and chasing the hot stocks, should I abandon value investing then?No.True, conservatism may cause investors to refrain from making some investments that in hindsight would have been successful, but it will also prevent some sizable losses that would ensue from adopting less conservative business valuations.the same view can be found in The Interpretation of Financial Statements“The investor who buys securities only when the market price looks cheap on the basis of the company's statements, and sells them when they look high on this same basis, probably will not make spectacular profits.
Aside from reviewing basic principles, and hearing the opinion of another experienced investor on this manner, there were two factors I that I appreciated in Klarman's book: emphasis on net working and liquid capital, and his lack of disdain towards taking advantage of arbitrage opportunities.Buffet often speaks of only investing for the very long term in companies that have a very strong long-term track record.
Such opportunities may not be feasible long-term investments, but can produce very favorable short-term returns, and are definitely worth investigating.All in all, I think this is an amazing book that's backed by a lot of experience.
This book is a comprehensive guide to value investing - an investing approach defined by Ben Graham and followed by most successful investors and hedge fund managers.
It covers many topics from the mechanics of financial industry and markets, value investing process and tools, to advice for choosing brokers or money managers.
There are a lot of recurring topics that are described in other value investing books, however because it is so exhaustive anyone can find some new insightful information.
Most importantly, Seth puts investing ideas very well into words, sometimes resulting in profoundly simple explanations.All in all, it is a great read and a must-read for all value investors.
This book is divided into 3 parts comprising 1.
How market works, 2.
Searching for investments.
First part is an eye opener for any wanna be investor to learn how wall street works and why prices deviate from their intrinsic value.
Second part focuses on basics of investing, delving into highly important valuation techniques.
This is crux of the book and is worth reading many times.
Third part focuses on how to search for investments, its good but is less relevant for Indian markets (bankruptcy etc).
It's an awesome book and overall gives a solid foundation for any would be value investor.
Priceless book (even if Amazon disagrees). The book is broken up into principles of investing we all know, yet rarely follow when methods are actually put to practice. How is Klarman different from all the other finance writers? Instead of beating the proverbial dead horse of investing dogmas , this book explains how we all come up short because of Wall Street's house edge and our bias towards the latest investing fad. Given this context, the age old investing lessons we all choose to ignore for quick and easy "profits" (hopefully) are part of a playbook that should be sacrosanct.
Good introduction to value investing. The author dwells too much on what's wrong with other valuation methods without talking about how should an investor go about executing value investing. Pros of value investing are too less compared to cons of investing time analysing the underlying businesses. Book is not really targeted towards an audience and seems to wander between individual investor and institutional one. Recommended read but the content delivery is lacking coherence..
It's hard to convey how important this book is to someone who is not on the buy-side of the investment management industry. He logically articulates all the structural, behavioral, and logical errors that institutional investors commonly commit. In terms of his value investment philosophy, it is no wonder his returns have been so strong. He is simply willing to go places where other investors do not, which tilts the odds of performance in his favor.
Seth Klarman's Margin of Safety is a terrific primer on the difference between investment and speculation. Originally published in 1991 but now long out of print and famously hard to find, Margin of Safety highlights many of the key tenets of value investing, most of which remain completely philosophically relevant even two decades later.
I loved Margin of Safety! Seth Klarman does a great job of explaining different ways to be a value investor all the way from how to research to trading. He uses examples that he found through his work at Baupost to illustrate his points and shows many special situations that can be taken advantage of. A must read for any investor.
Very comprehensive overview of value-investing from an institutional/professional standpoint which had good, informative case studies of risk-arbitrage deals.Not from the corner of value investing but it was a very enjoyable read - although slightly underwhelming considering how much this book has been overhyped ;)
This book is outdated but the wisdom is timeless. Value investing takes discipline, patience, and a will to go against the grain. But, over time, it is the best investing strategy. You will never look at Wall Street and the "herd" the same. ** the book is out of print but I highly recommend hunting down a copy from a library.
Very good book, totally worth a read if you can grab a copy.I think S. Klarman writes extremely well and makes you grasp things easily.Particularly appreciated the discussion of the flaws of EBITDA: Klarman discusses why it leads to "chronic overvaluation of businesses" (his words) & uses clear exemples.
You probably won't find a hard copy as it is out of print and selling 2000 USD per copy. Seth Klarman is well known for keeping substantial amount of cash (>50%) in his portfolio when the he cannot find attractive opportunity. Nonetheless, excellent book which discuss the essence of Value investment: Margin of safety.
great contrarian way to think about investing from one of the great value investors. some of the commentary is a bit dated and I disagree w him on his assessment of index investing but good for the professional as well as amateur investor
Finally read what many consider one of the two seminal books (the other being the Intelligent Investor) for value investors. Nothing overly new/groundbreaking here, but overall a very well written book, with some great real world (albeit dated at this point) examples.
Great, structured approach to value investing. Just a notch behind Graham in terms of how his views were comprehensively expressed and lays out a solid foundation for further investigation into the realm of investing
