https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17564519-walk-on-earth-a-stranger
Trust someone, Mama said. Her dying words, burned into my heart. But she was wrong. When there’s gold to be had, you can’t trust anyone. Not a single soul. 3 1/2 stars. Walk on Earth a Stranger is a very promising start to this historical/paranormal series set during the California Gold Rush of 1849.Westerns - a genre that has been fairly empty for many years (outside of Western Romance) - are making a comeback. I have read three this year and enjoyed them all - Under a Painted Sky, Vengeance R
Walk on Earth a Stranger is a very promising start to this historical/paranormal series set during the California Gold Rush of 1849.Westerns - a genre that has been fairly empty for many years (outside of Western Romance) - are making a comeback.
I have read three this year and enjoyed them all - Under a Painted Sky, Vengeance Road and, of course, Walk on Earth a Stranger.
2016 also promises more Western excitement with Revenge and the Wild.I'm trying to make it VERY clear what this book is, because I was under the impression that it was another high fantasy, similar to the author's The Girl of Fire and Thorns trilogy.
DNF at 50%. Where is the plot? Is there a plot?What a disappointment. This book suffers from something that has plagued every single Rae Carson book I've ever read, however good they ended up being: it's slow as molasses. It started off so well, with a strong character and a rare setting in young adult literature. I have a strange life; I know it well. We have a big homestead and not enough working hands, so I’m the girl who hunts and farms and pans for gold because her daddy never had sons. I’m
We have a big homestead and not enough working hands, so I’m the girl who hunts and farms and pans for gold because her daddy never had sons.
The town girls poke fun at me, calling me “Plain Lee” on account of my strong hands and my strong jaw.
But there’s plenty I love about my life that makes it all just fine: the sunrise on the snowy mountain slopes, a mama and daddy who know my worth, that sweet tingle when a gold nugget sits in the palm of my hand.
This book was pretty much the same thing, it was fun at first, but it got really boring.This is essentially the plot:Girl has magical gold-finding powers.
Reviewed by: Rabid Reads4.5 starsThis book . . . GAH.I was already a HUGE fan of Rae Carson from reading her  Fire and Thorns  books, so I was dying in the interim between series, scavenging for any bit of information I could find about what she was working on next.And the more I learned, the more excited I became: a girl on the run with the ability to sense gold like a dowsing rod . . . during the California Gold Rush . . .Pretty cool, right? I'm not a huge fan of American history, but even I t
A family would start the journey with a wagon jam-packed with various "necessities" they refused to leave behind, and the longer they traveled, the more stuff they tossed out, b/c they learned: if it isn't food or water, it's not important.REAL people were dying from real diseases.
In this phenomenal first installment of Rae Carson's new GOLD SEER TRILOGY, you will meet a fascinating cast of characters whose journey from the Southern United States all the way to California will spring to life as you feverishly inhale chapter after chapter, willfully ignoring silly things like food and shelter b/c you physical CANNOT put it down.
4.5*I really enjoyed this!!! Video review possibly to come
3.5 stars Enjoyed a great deal of this, though I wish the characters and writing were a bit more complex. But I do so love that the author uses the word "boughten" at one point, because it makes me think fondly of Little House. <3Review to come.
Women back then weren’t taken seriously when it came to business, either, so she had to disguise herself and take on a new identity in order to be able to do the things she was good at.But even though her hands are calloused with the hard work she’s given throughout the years, she is still a vulnerable and relatable heroine and my heart ached and felt for her for the loneliness, danger, and restlessness she felt as she traveled and look for Jefferson, her best friend, who went on to California ahead of her.
This was mostly a story of a girl who heads west disguised as a boy and meets an assortment of typical mid-1800s characters along the way.
I thought it had a solid mix of characters and felt like a decently realistic portrayal of that time period (for all I know).The romance was super slow-burn almost to the point where it's barely there, but I suppose it just built a solid foundation for the next book.
So I like where this is heading overall and will totally check out the next book!
I was fated to like it basically.Of course it uses the ancient trope of girl disguising as a boy, which I used to accept without a blink as a kid.
Although I do have a small complaint that the book is mostly about the JOURNEY to California, and there is like zlich actual gold digging.
Basically I loved this book, but it could've been more.
(Kidding...it's actually nice they're taking their time.) And I loved reminsicing about my Oregon Trail obsession.
I rooted for Lee SO MUCH and just love how into the story I got.
I LOVE THIS BOOK.(There is no Clementine in the book...just...that song?
The novel is historical fiction with a little bit of paranormal thrown in; don’t go into it expecting a fantasy novel.The story starts when Leah Westfall decides to run away from home to California because she believes that her new guardian is responsible for her parents’ death.
The issues she encounters are realistic and depict an accurate and vivid picture of what it was like to journey through America at the time, however, it became repetitive and predictable early on and I started loosing interest around the 40% mark.
I don't know if it will still be there as you all know how they sell out really quickly on Bookoutlet!3.5 STARSI really loved the character Lee. She's so strong and goes through some terrible things that I just can't imagine.
But let me tell you right now, my favorite character in the book is Peony!
See image below :)Yes, Peony is Lee's Palomino and I love her and nothing better happen to her!!
Oh and I love the fact the author mentioned Lee traveling through my city of Chattanooga and some of the towns close by and I think the cover of the book is absolutely beautiful!
Evidently, I enjoy historical fiction with hard working young girls without families making it in the world all by themselves (see my highly rated "Hattie Big Sky" and "The Hired Girl.")What I don't like in books like this, I guess, are dull and dour narrators with no sense of humor and lacking in optimism, long, boring treks and the stories unnecessarily stretched out into series.Gold Rush was an interesting era to write about, but this story needed to be more compact and more exciting to get me through hundreds of pages of people going from one place to another while dying of measles, childbirth, etc.
*4.5 stars*
I have a huge weakness for fantasy western settings and themes exploring wild frontiers, so a story set in Gold Rush-era America about a young woman trying to make her way to California sounded exactly like something I would enjoy.Ahem.
I was also very impressed with Carson’s writing, so much so that I want to rush to add her other books to my TBR, post-haste.Still, I’m not sure that I would enjoy anything as much as I did Walk on Earth a Stranger.
After surprise attack that shuttered Leah’s family, Leah has no other choice but dress as a boy and set up on dangerous journey to California - a place where she can put her secret gift of sensing gold to use during American Gold Rush era and start a new life for herself. And so it began, the adventurous tale that I grew to love so dearly. "Trust someone, Mama said. Her dying words, burned into my heart. But she was wrong. When there’s gold to be had, you can’t trust anyone. Not a single soul."
After surprise attack that shuttered Leah’s family, Leah has no other choice but dress as a boy and set up on dangerous journey to California - a place where she can put her secret gift of sensing gold to use during American Gold Rush era and start a new life for herself.
Author presented awesome variety of realistic side characters which made my reading experience special and memorable above any other YA historical novels I have read before.
But I have a feeling that it will play much bigger role in next instalment!Plot-wise, author had it thought out to tiny details.
An Electronic Advanced Reader Copy was provided by the publisher via Edelweiss for review.I didn't know what this book would entail but I had no idea it would be about women and their roles back in the days where everything was unequal.
I loved reading how much Lee changes and how strong she is to be able to do the things that she does.This is all about the journey and even though it has some magical elements, it wasn't the focus.
I've never read about a journey to the western side of America before but Rae Carson has a way with words that gets me interested and enthralled at the same time.
WHAT IS THIS I MUST HAVE IT.
4.5 stars Another excellent book from Rae Carson! It starts a little slow but it soon picks up and become quite engrossing as you go along! Love the mix of fantasy and western themes. I also loved all of the various topics she touched on in this novel: feminism, racism, LGBQT characters, everything was just so well done and I look forward to the sequel!
Walk on Earth a Stranger is a teen hero story version of The Oregon Trail.I like the Gold Rush Era, it's a fascinating time in US history.
But if I wanted to learn about what it might be like to travel west in the mid 1800s, I would have picked up a history book, maybe an old diary.
But no, Lee takes advantage of her ability only maybe once or twice in the whole book.
I never understood why Lee let the people close to her suffer poverty when she could easily help them out.Basically, Walk on Earth a Stranger was too slow, too boring.
(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to HarperCollins and Edelweiss.) “The gold sense sparks in the back of my throat, sharp and hard. It creeps down my throat and into my chest, where it diffuses into a steady buzz, like dancing locusts.” This was a YA fantasy story, about a girl who could detect gold.I felt quite sorry for Leah, the things she went through with her parents and her uncle was awful, and what she was then forced to do was also
(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis.
“The gold sense sparks in the back of my throat, sharp and hard.
It creeps down my throat and into my chest, where it diffuses into a steady buzz, like dancing locusts.”
The pace was also a little on the slow side for me, and I did lose interest a bit.There was a little hint at romance in this, but not a lot really.The ending to this was okay, but there was plenty of room left open for another book or more.6 out of 10
Not even gonna lie, i bought this just to make my bookshelf prettier.This cover is gorgeous!
THAT COVER GUYS, THE COVER.
I love this book so much. It is currently 2:18 AM in my neck of the woods so I will have a review up tomorrow. But for right now all you need to know is this book is amazing and YOU NEED TO READ IT. **Minor Spoilers Ahead** "The presence of gold fades with distance, but never leaves me. Maybe, in California, it will infuse me constantly, like the warmth of my own private sun." This is the first book I've read by Rae Carson and it certainly will not be the last. I loved her writing and the charac
The only way she can truly be free is if she heads west to find her best friend Jefferson and escape into California where her Uncle Hiram has no power over her.
Rae Carson made me feel like I was there on the trail with Leah.
It’s never been my favorite history to learn about but I’ve always loved learning about this era with the California Gold Rush and the move west.
“Seems like I’ve been waiting for you to come around my whole life, Lee. But a man can’t wait forever and stay a man.” 
I just want to say a few things about the relationship between Leah and Jefferson.
On a more positive note, though, I really liked how this book portrayed many things concerning that time period: There was expressed diversity in terms of sexuaility and race.
This story realistically portrayed the hate and disrimination against Native Americans befitting that time.And sexism - just as Carson't previous series, this book was quietly feminist and had many ampowering messages and quotes without it being too much.
*******************************Pre-review:I'm kind of weary starting this book because the premise of this story doesn't sound as interesting to me, but I loved Fire and Thornes trilogy by Rae Carson - book two and three were among my all time favourites, and her stories always seem quitly feminist and diverse.
Review also on This is the stage for Rae Carson's Walk on Earth A Stranger. Leah "Lee" Westfall is a very special girl, she can witch up gold. She can sense the presence of gold and the bigger the piece, the stronger the sensation she feels. Needless to say that a girl with her abilities is a prime asset in their gold rush town, but I imagine it will be useless in our time and age. Lee and her family kept this special ability a secret. Instead of striking out and making it big panning or mining
Leah "Lee" Westfall is a very special girl, she can witch up gold.
Needless to say that a girl with her abilities is a prime asset in their gold rush town, but I imagine it will be useless in our time and age.
With nothing else left, Lee ventures out to California, where wealth awaits a girl with her gold-divining abilities.Lee travels from Georgia to California, that's 2,454.8 miles of lawless and hostile lands.
Lee is a good character, too good if you ask me.
I think if you were anticipating this book based on that alone, it is possible you would be disappointed.
I know I was; however I love historical fiction in general and the Gold Rush is a favourite period of mine, so really it was difficult to stay disappointed for long!Really looking forward to reading the next in series where hopefully the fantasy element will make a more significant appearance.
don't think that's much of a spoiler since it's in the blurb for this book, let alone the next.Recommended.
On the way, she joins a family - the Joyners - and a friend who also ran away - Jefferson - and it's not long before Lee feels like she has a place in the group that she's traveling with.
But Lee has more secrets than one - she can sense gold, but she's also masquerading as a boy.Rae Carson has certainly created a unique and rich story, scene, and cast of characters.
He keeps Lee's secret about being a girl from everyone, but he doesn't know about her gold sense.Overall, I thought the story was interesting, maybe not engaging though (see below).
Loved it! I found it a tad slow in the beginning of the middle but it could have easily been a five star review. I am starting book two now and just ordered book three. Loving this series! I haven't read many gold rush theme books but when I can find some in the fiction category I eat them up.
***This review has also been posted on The Social Potato Walk on Earth a Stranger may just be the best YA Western I’ve read so far. It’s all I ever asked for bundled into an exciting adventure that had flipping pages as fast as I could. Fair warning though, this book won’t be everyone’s cup of tea.For as long as I can remember, reading books that feature journeys has been *my* thing. I mean lots of things are my thing, but I always find myself craving a good old adventure. Across a country, to
I love living vicariously through characters journeying to some place and reading about the hardships they have to overcome.
Some people will want more.I don’t have much to go on but I have noticed that all the YA Westerns I’ve read so far, parents seem to die and I am not sure how I feel about this trope.
If you read my review for Vengeance Road, you’ll know that the cowboy slang had actually bothered me in the beginning, but here I was finishing off certain sentences the way they would have been if this book were written in the same style as Vengeance Road.
"Now that I’m a girl, I’m treated like I’m nobody again, to be owned or herded or strung along, so helpless and awful that I must be redeemed or married off because it’s convenient for someone."  I've been looking forward to Walk on Earth a Stranger for so long. And I am happy to say it did not disappoint! Walk on Earth a Stranger is about a girl named Leah Westfall who can sense gold. After her parents are murdered, Leah disguises herself as a boy and decides to head west to find gold and star
"Now that I’m a girl, I’m treated like I’m nobody again, to be owned or herded or strung along, so helpless and awful that I must be redeemed or married off because it’s convenient for someone."
I've been looking forward to Walk on Earth a Stranger for so long.
Walk on Earth a Stranger is about a girl named Leah Westfall who can sense gold.
After her parents are murdered, Leah disguises herself as a boy and decides to head west to find gold and start a new life.
What I liked most about this book though was Leah.
Leah is definitely one of the most determined characters I've ever read about.
“Why do you spend so much time out there?”“I don’t know.” I settle my head down onto the saddlebag. “Maybe because it’s the only time I don’t have to lie to anyone.” This book follows Lee's journey to California during the gold rush. It's full of escapades like cows falling into rivers, frightening tales of Indians, children going missing, and Lee meeting and befriending new people.Lee was an awesome, tough, well-rounded heroine. She flees her home and has to disguise herself as a boy so she ca
“Why do you spend so much time out there?”“I don’t know.” I settle my head down onto the saddlebag.
This book follows Lee's journey to California during the gold rush.
Although Lee has a magical power to sense gold, don't expect an action-packed story full of suspense and chase scenes.The pacing was much slower than most YA novels, but surprisingly, I really liked the quiet plot that built a solid foundation for the characters and setting.
This isn't an action-packed fantasy, but a story of so many people following the wagon train on a long, exhausting journey in search of gold.The writing was absolutely gorgeous.
