https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6781956-savor-the-moment
Let's face it, Addie's intervention didn't work and there is no stopping me now from finishing this crappy series.
I can have hope and not be a raging bad-series-finishing-aholic!Ooo, this place looks fun!
Let's go!Plus, this book wasn't quite as bad as the first two.
They did, and that was that.There was about as much heat between these two as there is between two lizards.you know, cuz they're cold blooded?Huh?Anyway, there is something else going on in this series that I NEED to ask any of my east coast friends about:Do y'all actually use the phrase, "Oh boy" when you are excited about something?
Besides, the two couples from book 1 and 2 were so lovely that I couldn’t stop smiling and I was very happy to see them together again.The most disappointing part about this book was ‘Laurel’, and this fact came as a shock to me.
Something about her rubbed me the wrong way most of the time and I have to say that I didn’t enjoy her character throughout the entire story.Delaney was an ok hero but there was nothing particularly remarkable about him.
To tell you the truth, reading this one felt more like a chore than a pleasure to get through.By the way, I’ll definitely read the last book in this Bride Quartet series.
Unfortunately, that got in the way of the romance and I didn't connect with Del and Laurel's love story.
Okay, that is known to happen in Romancelandia, but that behavior is usually associated with a character who's also irrational - and that wasn't Laurel's case.So, all in all, this was a slightly better than average read to me, mostly because I enjoyed watching the friends' dynamics.
Del and Laurel's romance was kind of meh.
I was happy with their HEA, but I wouldn't be devastated if they had decided to stay just friends.Now I have a long wait until Happy Ever After, the last book in the series.
I really hope it's worth the wait and the series ends with a bang.
It was an okay story overall, and I liked the characters, although I did get tired of Laurel at times.
Mostly, though, I got stuck on the "snappy dialog" that made everyone sound like characters out of a TV sit com or Rom Com movie.
Some of the dialog was funny and clever, but it all sounded completely scripted, like the actors on a Disney channel tween show.
So no matter how cute the story was, I was always completely distracted by dialog and the fact that no one talks that way in real life.
(I know we don't talk in complete sentences all the time, but take a look at the book.
Doesn’t that speak volumes of my love for the series?Laurel is an amazing pastry chef.
She’s super entertaining, but I just don’t connect quite as much with her as I do with the other three women that form the Quartet.
Same goes for Del. He’s a slick lawyer with a propensity for micromanaging the lives of those he loves, which drives Laurel insane.
But again, I just don’t connect as much to him as I do to the other three men who fall in love with various members of the Quartet.
When the weakest volume of a series is still 4 stars, you know it’s a favorite.
And this time, though it still revolved around the friendship between Mac, Emma, Laurel and Parker, the story was mostly about the romance between life-long friends.
For them both, but mostly inside their little “tribe”.So the same fears and worries as with Emma and Jack were there, but much more augmented, because of that long(er) friendship.But it was beautifully done, if you ask me, much better than in Bed of Roses, especially since the hero (Del) had no obvious and well-known commitment issues Jack had.
Re read 12/25/16
This book was neat I can't wait to listen to the last book
Del and Laurel verbally spar with each other and the dialogue snaps as you'll laugh at their witty comebacks at one another.While Mac and Carter continue to be my favorite couple of this series, this comes a very close second.Laurel is one tough cookie, to use a baking analogy, and she has loved Del all her life, finally she decides to do something about it.
In comic retaliation, Del steals her shoes(you'll have to read it to understand all of this).The love story is wonderful, but what makes this series so enjoyable is the four friends and the relationship they all have and the friendships between the men in their lives as they get to know one another.
3 1/2 stars*sigh*. I really wanted to love this one, but I didn't. I did like Del and Lauren, but I didn't like the 'conflict'. It was weak, since she'd known him her whole life. It felt like the author had to come up with something to make them 'have it out' before they got an HEA. I am so looking forward to Parker and Mal's book. We get to visit them a bit and this one, and I kept wishing for this to be their book. Ah well, we can't love em all.
Laurel's cakes may have been beautiful, but they just didn't sound delicious.
Oh, I'm sure the wedding cakes were delicious, but Nora Roberts' talent is not in describing food.
Just the word makes me happy.
Wedding cake!
Happy day cake!
Cakes are celebratory but Laurel seemed like a cranky bitch.
So Mackenzie's story was awesome, Emma's romantic dilemma seemed weak, and Laurel's relationship with Del seems sex-based primarily, since they have known each other for years.I do think the stranger-romance, rather than the childhood-friend romance, is sexier, since their exploration of personality and dynamics causes more ups and downs in the relationship.
She was snapping at Del throughout the whole book and it turned me off from her.2.
There was too much time where Laurel was telling her emotions to the girls and not to Del.3.
Speaking of exercising, I was sick of that and drinking tea.
I wondered whether they were heavy set children and that is why they feel the need to exercise all day.
Del needed a nicer woman.
If my childhood crush stated he wanted to start dating me, I would be all over him.7.
Not enough of Parker and Mal (hey, at least they entertained me and they had more of a connection than Del and Laurel).
#1 New York Times bestselling author Nora Roberts cordially invites you to meet childhood friends Parker, Emma, Laurel, and Mac — the founders of Vows, one of Connecticut’s premier wedding planning companies.This book revolves around the talented baker Laurel.
This series is fun, a good book to read without putting too much thought into it.
It's cute and cheesy, which everyone needs once in a while.
It reminds me of every little girl's fairy tale with the great company that the women own and rich good-looking men after these women.
And, not to mention how quickly they get engaged!
I didn't know what to expect from Laurel, because in the previous books she'd always seemed like the kind of character I neither like nor dislike.
She came across as vaguely annoyed and somewhat ill-tempered all the time, but not necessarily in a bad way, if that makes sense.
Plus, there was little to no conflict here and what was there made sense.
Laurel had a dumb meltdown moment towards the end, but then I'd come to expect that with these books.
Big improvement compared to the last one. No fake, forced conflict or breakup. Del and Lauren are just too good together. Can't wait for Parker's book.
Laurel and Del have been virtually life-long friends, and have even "married each other a couple of times" by the time they'd grown up.
that "love" wasn't the kind typically assigned to a "lover." However, he too has shocked himself a couple of times by how attracted he's begun to find Laurel, and he's a bit afraid of how that sexual attraction might mess up their life-long friendship, which means a lot to him.
Their road to figuring out their relationship/love for each other brings the series to a nice conclusion for Laurel/Del, and includes enough set up for Parker and Mal's forthcoming book.
Mais um bom livro da série embora, lendo tudo seguido, note-se um certo padrão no enredo e até no comportamento das personagens mas pronto Nora tem aquela fórmula e é por isso que vende!!
---(...)O Sabor do Momento - foi melhor que o segundo, embora tenha sido aqui que tenha começado a fica um pouco cansada da série, especialmente na parte das descrições dos casamentos que eram sempre iguais!
Gostei da dinâmica do Del ver e sentir a Laurel como uma irmã e ser muito protector dela das outras sociais da Votos mas à medida que a vai conhecendo melhor acaba por apaixonar-se por ela.
I was kind of bored with both Del and Laurel.
If Laurel loved Del her whole life I didn't see much of it.
I really got tired of all the exercise and scenes with the brides that really didn't have anything to do with the Del and Laurel.
I guess I wanted to see them together more and it just didn't happen.I kind of trudged through this one and was glad it was finally over.
Yes, Laurel loved Del forever but it didn't feel real to me.
It all fell flat for me.I definitely liked Jack and Emma's story better.
I hope I enjoy Malcolm and Parker's story.
This ended up being my highest rated book out of the Bride Quartet series.
Laurel is the baker for the wedding planning business.
Laurel is stubborn about things, but I liked her a lot.
I didn't care about Mac working out to look nice in her wedding dress.
The wedding scenes at this point are here to stay along with the acronyms galore.
I honestly just rolled my eyes at how all of the heroes in this series who have full time jobs by the way, happen to always be around to help out the women.
Laurel era mi favorita de las cuatro desde el primer libro, y Del fue y sigue siendo un cuqui. Así que 2+2= novela romántica, divertida y tierna *brindo con champán por la Roberts*
Sometimes we read a book that is not only good, it also turns out to be perfect for the current mood were in.That's what happened with this one. A perfect read for a relaxed Saturday afternoon.I guess by now, there isn't much more I can say about Nora Roberts' writing:The author definitely knows how to spin a tale. If you've already read some of the author's books, you know what I'm talking about. If not....well, your loss...So in this story _once again _ we have some smooth, flowing writing, a
Especially Carter who is such a sweetie.The second one not so much, mainly because of the last part who derailed a little on the drama department...but I'm happy to report _from the romance front_ that this one was another winner!In terms of conflict, _at a soap opera level_, don't expect it to happen here (Thank God!).Nora Roberts knows how to play the dynamics between friends, family and lovers, in such a way, that most of the times, I can't help feeling that I know these people.This is Laurel's, _ the pastries' chef book and Del, Parker's brother.There isn't much to say about this story, besides it being a sweet romance.Myself I loved it, because the romance was the focus of it.
Superb book. Had anxiously been awaiting Del and Laurel's story and it wasn't a disappointment. Now on to Mal and "Legs."
3.5 STARS I've been looking forward to reading Laurel's story. She's my favorite Vows lady to date and there appeared to be so much lingering underneath. I adore the relationships/friendships with all the ladies and the guys. Sadly, the romantic aspect between Laurel and Dell was a little flat. I wanted more of a buildup and ending was completely rushed and off kilter with the rest of the story. Perhaps my aspirations were too high? Overall, it was a light, fun read that made my vacation more pleasant. Can't wait to read the finale.
This was very good. While each of the friends and their loves each have an episode of "misunderstanding" (don't you hate when that is used in the plot), the tight relationship amongst the four childhood friends, the snappy dialogue and their successful business is very fun to read. Onto Parker's book, which I have been anticipating very much. 4.5
I'm actually hoping Nora Roberts decides to do at least one book about them all having kids that like the girls all grow up together.
The night before since they all plan to go together Del spends the night at Parker and Laurel's.
The other thing didn't really bug me I just kept waiting for it to happen but it never did.
Del tells Jack that he has had feelings for Laurel but always believed her to be hands off so that's what he's done.
I kept waiting for him to tell Laurel that but he never does.
In true Nora Roberts Style she gives us a lovely heart warming story of two people who have been friends all their lives, and fall deeply in love.This story is about Laurel and Del finding their way from friends to lovers to a happy ever after.This is not a story for people who like a good angst romance because this is a real love story.
Laurel is a bit self conscious of herself when compared to Del, he came from money and loving parents, where she came from a broken home without her family supporting her.
She put herself through college to live her dream of being a professional baker and loves what she does at Vows.Favourite Quote: Del’s note to Laurel “You might think this is over, but you’d be wrong.
Something about this didn't click with me.
I think it's because I don't have a real handle on Laurel: she feels patched together from pieces of the other three women, and so she never becomes a person in her own right.
It seems like she's just going through the motions - acting and reacting either the way you'd expect, or the way needed to drive the plot forward - and so I never lost sight of the fact (like I did in book 1!) that I was reading something.
There are already two happy couples, and they're always being called out, and they all live in the same place and are together all the time...

La expectativa me jodió la emoción de la lectura. Pensaba que me iba a fangirlear todo el libro y el romance de Laurel y Del fue bastante adulto y sensato. Aunque eso no quiere decir que dejara de ser sexy, divertido y romántico. Creo que son mi pareja favorita porque los adoro demasiado a los dos y cuando descubrí que iban a terminar juntos en el libro anterior me emocioné demasiado con la idea. Son una linda mezcla estos dos... y basta, Nora Roberts! Dejá de torturarme con estos finales tan lindos!
This was the best yet in this quartet. I especially enjoyed the hero's realizations on how his feelings were changing. I think anyone who wants to read the fourth book in the series would benefit from reading this one beforehand, I can see the first hints of the next book beginning in the early chapters of this book. I love the series because it celebrates the friendships of the women as much as the romances they have.
