https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/348564.Flat_Stanley
Flat Stanley, Jeff Brown Flat Stanley is an American children's book series written by Jeff Brown (January 1, 1926 – December 3, 2003). تاریخ نخستین خوانش: هفدهم اکتبر سال 1993 میلادیعنوان: استنلی، پسرک کاغذی؛ نویسنده: جف براون؛ مترجم: حسین فتاحی؛ تصویرگر: تومی اونگرر؛ تهران، سروش، 1371، در 50 ص، مصور، موضوع: داستانهای تخیلیا. شربیانی
I think it is cool that Stanley is only 1 inch thick. It must be fun to slide under a door or be flown as a kite. He had to bring a sandwich with him when he was mailed. The envelope had to be very big. It cost Mr. Lambchop a whole sheet of stamps to mail Stanley. I hope he doesn't get into any. trouble being flat.You should read it to find out. I recommend this book and I look forward to reading more Stanley books. Ahku
Stanley woke up flat as a pancake. He loved slipping under doors and going from room to room. He was caught up in an unexpected adventure by sneak thieves. It is a great story with really great illustrations. I will be reading more Stanley books with my grandchildren. He is a hit!
Nash’s updated illustrations on nearly every page bring out the imaginative qualities and opportunities the original premise of these stories has to offer young readers.This first book of the Flat Stanley series describes how Stanley became flattened by a fallen bulletin board in the night and his experiences in the community being flat which include a mixture of praise for catching the “sneak thieves” stealing valuable artwork from the museum as well as ridicule for being different.
But Arthur catches Stanley crying one night after Stanley is called hurtful names because of his flatness, and the brothers share a caring moment that illuminates an important relationship in the book.
I didn't enjoy this book as much as the Mexican Adventure I just read, but I was curious to find out more about how Stanley became flat! The plot was not so great but there were important messages along the book, for instance not jumping to conclusions (based on first looks or what some situation looks like), not judging people for their "shapes, religion, or the color of their skin", the importance of family and working as a team.
For Stanley, being dressed as a girl is more horrifying than being flat, getting stuffed in an envelope and mailed across the country, or standing still on pegs for hours while staking out villains. Both my daughter and my son deserve better than some dumb flat kid who disparages girl-stuff. Maybe this was updated in later versions?
When my husband and I left our dear "grand girl" Marlee at a very young age, as her "step" grandmother I was pleasantly surprised to learn (for she came from a very large and very loving extended family), that she chose me to send "Flat Stanley", 750 miles away.
It was a wonderful adventure for me because it was a gift from a dear, darling girl named Marlee.
As I prepare to leave this house that without my husband is no longer a home, I came across a copy of Flat Stanley's adventures while he visited us.
My 5 yr old loved this book. A great story about a boy who gets flat after something falls on him and the advantages to being flat has. (Such as sneaking under doors) A colorful story with bright illustrations, it's probably somewhere around a level 2 reading book. A little too long and involved for my twin 3 yr olds, it's better suited for older children, but still interesting enough for a family read, especially if you keep your kids engaged by asking them questions about the book. Overall a nice story.
Kind of a cute book, def.
written in the 1960's (when I was a child.) But the story is rather shallow.
(See how I didn't say 'flat'?) More of a series of little vignettes in which Stanley gets flat, then can slide under doors, becomes a kite, and later is 'blown back up' with a bicycle pump.
I think I expected more.I'd taken this book from the library to read to my five-year old grandson, but I'm afraid he'd miss the point, too.
And I think the point was this: sheer cleverness...Though the mother does make one very good statement about it being wrong to dislike people for their shapes, religion or color of their skin.
It should be noted that my review is for the original Flat Stanley with illustrations by Tomi Ungerer, not the revised (and much inferior) editions by Scott Nash.
What I remember best was the imaginative idea of sending Stanley through the mail, and having him return from many far away places.
This book not only was a stepping stone in reading, but also sparked my own imagination, like a good book should.
Truly one of my all time favorites, it is a shame that today's children will not see the original form of this book, but the dismal modern editions instead.
Dad: So Eleanor, what did you think about the book?Eleanor: I thought the book was awesome.
Dad: what do you think about the voice reviews?E: I would give the book 5 stars.
Dad: but what do you think about the voice reviews?E: I think the voice reviews are amazing.
D: This book was on the shelf at piano.
So we just read it while we were waiting for Gwen.
We've been reading it for the past three or four weeks.
So, what did you think about the book tell me your favorite parts.
Dad: Anything else?
I have a few concerns over the physics of this book, a boy gets flattened by what looks like a cork board, he lives... that part makes sense to me, my concern is how he is used as a kite, where has all his weight gone? Also any clothes he puts on suddenly become flat? hmmmmm might explain why my clothes are always too tight.My daughter said she liked this, but there wasn't any laughter and usually we end up discussing every page, not this time though, I think it didn't capture her imagination enough. So 3 stars only.
Just read this with Lucas and he loved it. I know I read it as a child but could hardly remember it, it’s a bit of fun for young children and quite nonsenses which I like!
I shall overlook the lack of the ensuing lawsuit against the makers of the bulletin board, whose poorly fitted screws and bolts led to my horrific accident, as I understand that it would have taken up most of the book.
I feel that the book misses the importance of my heroic and courageous actions when faced with the jewellery heist.
This was overlooked in the book and I believe this is rather unjust.
In addition, I feel that society has not yet fully appreciated my ability to fly.I hope that Jeff Brown never writes me a biography again.
This children's book - first published in 1964 - is definitely not timeless. The writing style and dialogue seem pretty outdated throughout the whole story, which gives it an unbelievable (not fantastical) and boring quality. However, the scene in which Flat Stanley's parents mail him for a California visit has sparked the Flat Stanley Project in which people of all ages can make their own Stanleys and mail them around the world - great for classrooms and library programming. I'm interested in checking out the rest of the series and seeing how it has been updated from its stodgy origins.
I just happened to see this because of Goodreads; I’d never heard of it before. I’m glad that the library gave me the edition they did.This is a hoot. This is quirky, offbeat, clever, creative, and seemingly unique. I just loved it. And it’s another great museum story and sibling story too.The illustrations fit the story wonderfully.This has a much longer (text) story than the average picture book.
that was just flat out terrible (pun absolutely intended).
Honestly though, this book is so weak and falls flat all around (okay, I’m done now...).
But nonetheless, I’ll probably buy more copies because I know some students will love this book.
However, I’m my opinion, this is a grade 2/3 reading level and parents wanting their children to be challenged in their reading skills would be wise to look else where.
I was once a teachers assistant for a grade 5/6 class and they read this book for a novel study.
When I was in grade six we did a novel study on The Underground Railroad.
This book can be funny if you point out the ridiculousness of the situations to the child you are reading this too.
His parents are a little bit upset, but, breakfast is already ready and they decide to go ahead and eat breakfast before bringing him to the doctor.
I mean, that's a bit ridiculous.
Later in the book, his mother drops her ring down a storm drain and then lowers him through the grating to fetch her ring.
I mean, sure, storm drains are totally safe for children to play in so long as they are flat children..
Grade level, interest level, lexile (1 pt)This book good probably be read by students from 2nd-5th grade.
3. Appropriate classroom use (subject area) (1 pt)Flat Stanley could be used as an example of creative writing for students.
Small group use (literature circles) (1 pt)This book would be good for helping students practice reading out loud.
Maybe one center could be reading the book together, the next could be drawing themselves if they were flat, and then write their own story (example: Flat Alexis).6.
I also found that there are videos of people reading the different Flat Stanley books out loud.
Flat Stanley is a classic, yet quirky children's book and one of my personal childhood favourites.Stanley is a normal boy until one morning he wakes to find his notice board has fallen on him and he is now as flat as a pancake.
Favourite moments include Stanley's brother trying to make himself flat too with a pile of books and eventually pumping Stanley back to normal with a bicycle pump.This book is great for 5-9 year olds.
For younger classes, you could ask them to create a 'flat' picture of themselves and post to a relative to go on their own adventure.
It is an easy and fun read for early readers. It’s a sweet story of Stanley who becomes flat (when a bulletin board falls on him). He then has all kinds of adventures being flat until his younger brother fixes him back to being normal. Young children will enjoy this book; the bonus it has few pictorial representation!
Stanley este un băiețel... plat. Oricât de neobișnuită ar părea ideea, sunt sigură că mulți copii o să considere povestea amuzantă. De fapt poveștile, fiindcă sunt două. Cea de-a doua ne învață, pe un ton politicos și echilibrat, care pot fi consecințele atunci când un duh ne îndeplinește dorințele. Lectura e veselă și prietenoasă, iar ilustrațiile minunate!
I read the newer edition this time. It skips the scene mentioned in another review, of going down the drain. All I remember from the old days about the book is that it's popular in classrooms, as children can mail their own Stanleys to pen pals, etc. This read did not impress me.
I think this book would be a good one for readers who have just started to read fluently as the language isn't too difficult and the chapters almost split themselves into small short stories although it is one continuous story.
This story really opens itself up to creative writing in English, where they could write their own chapter in the story for Stanley's next adventure as well as writing letters to Stanley's friend in America.
Overall, a lovely book for those just starting to read fluently due to its simple language and chapters of short stories but I would be wary in using this book more deeply than this.
2.5
So, I thought this was a S-T-R-A-N-G-E book, but my son absolutely loved it and wants to read the rest of the series. I liked Stanley's relationship with his brother - too cute! Full review to come.
Recommend all series.
From starting with book 11 in one class, it was nice to go back and see how it started in another class.
Revisiting some childhood favorites for my Children's Lit class. I loved this one!
In the night stanley was in bed there was a bulletin board in top of him because it fell on him.the next day her mom,s ring fell to the grating and stanley got it.they went to the park and was a kite.In the news that the robers robed a painting from the museuM so stanley in the night was one of the painting then the robres came then stanley scaered the robers and ran away then guy gave him a metal thing.Hes brother got bicicle pump and put in stanley mouth and his brother was pumping and he wasent flat any more.
