https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/855903.The_Bird_in_the_Tree
And, from David's side, how can an aged grandmother possibly understand what David and Nadine are experiencing?But Lucilla has her own story to tell, and she does it with tact and understanding, and although shocking, it is pertinent to David and Nadine's life choices.Elizabeth Goudge has been criticized by some for her 'sentimental' writing, but in reading other's reviews, I am pleased to see that I am not the only reader who finds comfort, encouragement and cheer, in her novels.
Pagan that I am, I still have a weakness for the British Christian apologists I read as an adolescent.
C.S. Lewis?
Check.
Such a beautiful mind, such clarity!Elizabeth Goudge?
Linnets and Valerians?
Sigh .
the best.
Re-reading her Damerosehay trilogy, I found myself falling for her again.
Her children, like E.
Nesbit's, are so individual, so real, so un-sugar coated.
Her descriptions of landscape, of weather and wildlife are so perfectly realized you can practically smell the rain coming.
But it is her values - children, family, community, self-sacrifice - that I most admire.
She is a gem of a writer.
As a teenager I read the sequel to this book, Pilgrim's Inn and didn't like it.
The Bird in the Tree has the back story.This book came highly recommended by a reader I highly respect.
(Each chapter is about 20 pages, which is not condusive to "I'll read a quick chapter and then..." Something a busy mother of young children needs.) Nevertheless, I pushed on.
About page 90 the story suddenly took hold and I found myself picking the book up to read a paragraph or page whenever time permitted.
Push past the first 100 pages and you'll be glad you did!
Not her finest outing, but I enjoyed it and I cared enough about the all of the Eliots that I'm adding the second book in the series, Pilgrim's Inn to my priority reading list.This was my third Elizabeth Goudge this year.
I suppose Gouge thought things were getting dull; they were sort of somnolent, unless you like those delicate family dramas, but I was rather enjoying it and the insertion seemed intrusive.Then the multiple POVs got a bit too tangled up, and everyone was agonizing and moralizing a bit too much and there was this unnecessary storm....Oh well.
One thing that I'll add (view spoiler)[ I never felt that Nadine and David were right for each other.
One reviewer of this novel characterized it as a crushing sermon on the importance of duty over one's personal happiness and at times I did find the book a little preachy.
I can certainly see their point of view but I think the character's arguments for this "duty bound" view on life was somewhat persuasive.
Is it right to sacrifice all you have held dear so far in life for a love that is all consuming (in the moment) but may dwindle over time?
Yes, there is an element of duty in that sacrifice but won't your new love at some point become a duty too?
The more I read Elizabeth Goudge the more I trust her. No matter the current trouble, she will make it right in the end, somehow. I think that might be the highest praise one could give an author.
Relationships. Self-sacrifice. Loved this one!
My first introduction to Elizabeth Goudge.
If I had the option, I would have given this book 4.5 stars.
From the description it sounds like a romance novel which I do not ever read.
Although there is a romance element, that is not what the story is ultimately about.
It is an ethical/moral dilemma.
This is the kind of book that makes one want to live more...better...fuller.
Beautifully written.
I enjoyed Goudge's British Christian apologetic views.
A search for truth, goodness and beauty even in the ugliness and storms of life.
This is a book I know I will go back to over and over again.
I loved this book, in fact it is to date my favorite of Elizabeth Goudge stories. Lucilla is the wise matriarch of the family and her relationship to her children and grandchildren is well told. I came away with the sense of family as prime importance to the point of sacrificing some of one's own desires for the greater good of family and community. The home she made in Damerosehay is a sheltering and nurturing place for all who come to stay. I look forward to the other books in the Eliot series!
This is a book not to be hurried but read leisurely just to savour the beautiful writing. The beautiful pictures that Elizabeth Goudge paints are just delightful.
It is more truthful to act what we should feel if the community is to be well served rather than behave as we actually do feel in our selfish private feelings.'The story does not merely focus on David and Lucilla, but also on Damerosehay and its history, and the other family members, and local residents.
I read the bulk of this book during Hurricane Florence, and it was a perfect read during the storm. The examination of character and place leaves me contemplating my motivations and concept of home. It makes me hope to love my loved ones better and wish I had Margaret’s knack for gardening. Now, to Pilgrim’s Inn!
I liked the writing style (very descriptive!) and the characters, and will probably read the subsequent books in the trilogy.
Goudge's writing is actually BEAUTIFUL, and I keep thinking about the landscapes and characters she created.
She clearly has a real admiration and respect for the earth's beauty and bounty, and painted wondrous pictures of Damerosehay's gardens and all the fowl and foliage therin.
Is that too much to ask?As for the characters, I can picture most of them clearly in my head.
I will have to ask my grandma if she has those books too.
I grabbed this off the shelf because I was weary and heartsick and needed an uplifting story that would pull me out of my dreary world.
Well, it delivered: it pulled me into a different world altogether, a world where Duty trumps True Love, where above all one must protect the ancestral home, a world of firm morality that Jane Austen would find bracing, where even the free spirits disdain sex outside of marriage.
It was first published in 1940, and set just prior, among a genteel and well-to-do (but not rich) professional English family.
I'm rating this so highly because I loved the setting of the house Damerosehay in coastal Hampshire.
With its walled flower and vegetable gardens, as well as the "wild garden" Lucilla Eliot has created a secure haven for her children and grandchildren.
The history of the house and its previous residents is interesting as well.
As well, although this is a pleasant read, it is a very moralising one as Lucilla tries to instill a sense of duty in her grandson David and daughter-in-law Nadine.
Personally, I didn't see things as Lucilla did, but nor as David and Nadine did.
First in the 'Elliots of Damerosehay' series about an extended family who revolve around the elderly matriarch Lucilla.
Yet it's a moving story with great characterisation.
Amongst the family interactions and struggles, the book is about the nature of truth.
It’s about being true to oneself and one’s family, of making difficult decisions, of faithfulness and tradition.
It’s about generational differences in the way people see the world, and also about eternal truths which can transcend simple facts.This isn’t a book for those who want a quick read, nor for those who like fast plots and rapid action.
Sometimes moving, often thought-provoking, and with an encouraging ending.
4.5 Stars This checked so, so many of my boxes.
Beautiful seaside location in a beautiful mansion, lush passages on nature and the feelings of the characters, subtle romance, rewarding family relationships, the glorifying of every day life and mundane household tasks, and a period setting.
I loved so many of Goudge's descriptions and this to me had just the right ratio of description to action.
This was only the first in a trilogy so I'm very much so looking forward to seeing many ends being tied up with characters I grew to love very quickly.
Beautiful descriptive tale of the Eliot family. It was one of those books that draw you into the characters lives and you are sadden when it concludes. Luckily for me there are two more books in the series awaiting me by my bedside. The story takes place in England before the second war. The Eliot family suffered great lost in the first but loss has brought the family closer together. Now a budding relationship in the family threatens to unravel the life that the family has built at Damerosehay. A delightful mystery is hidden within the family's tale.
Absolutely beautiful!This was my first book by Elizabeth Goudge and I loved it.
Ms. Goudge's writing is lovely; so beautiful, I told my mother, that I hardly cared whether there was a plot at all (though there certainly was a plot, and a good one).What I like best about this book - lovely writing aside - is that it DIDN'T really have a happy ending for all the characters.
Two characters chose to do the RIGHT thing and were UNhappy.
A pleasant change from the typical "do the right thing and live happily ever after" book.
Deep and a bit shocking at the same time. Ms. Goudge likes to quote poetry in her works, and I especially like these lines (p. 115):I shall wake presently, he thought, at daylight.It is the season of larks. They will be flingingthe bright seed of song in the furrows of grey light, till the East is gold with the smooth sheaves of singing.The character does not remember whether these lines were written by Humbert Wolfe, but goes to read his The Uncelestial City.
This was well worth the read for the lovely descriptive language alone. The place plays such a central role in the story and sounds absolutely delightful. The setting of the story just before WWII, and with a clash of ideals between the young adults of that time and the Victorian ideals of the grandparents' generation was rich and interesting. I'm a bit ambivalent about some of the moralizing in the story, but I'm definitely interested reading the subsequent books about the Eliot family.
The introductory book of the Eliot family trilogy. We meet the matriarch who is concerned for her family, especially her grandson David. We see her gentle, yet firm, interference in the relationship between David and his sister-in-law Nadine. (40's style relationship). This book shows the conflict of morality with desire. What a relief to read after the lack of morality in today's books.
Elizabeth Goudge never disappoints! Favorite quote from Lucilla,"All bereavement, whether fate inflicts it on you or whether the relinquishment is your own, changes you . . . Something lost in the present means something new flowing in from the future; often a new or stronger faith. In your loss and gain you are bound to change and to look at things a little differently."
This book is one of the most beautiful pieces of literature that I have read in awhile. It is richly lyrical and poignantly human. Every detail was so exquisitely important to the novel. I am touched, deeply moved, and somewhat changed from reading this. I look forward to reading the other books in the trilogy.
This book just dragged for me. The basic story was great, but the detail of writing took for ever to get through. I love a book that keeps calling me throughout the day to come and read more, this didn't do that for me. It was just filled to the brim with too much detail.
I loved this book! It felt like a classic book from the past, but dealt with very current issues. I fell in love with characters and their wonder of nature. It has everything I want in a novel and I'm praying I can find the next book in the series-I think it's out of print!
Such comforting joyful books. I love how she takes everyone's troubles and sorrows and shows how hard work and sacrifice and great love can fix them all. I also love the life-like qualities she gives to buildings and how they can affect people.
I love this trilogy, I can appreciate the critics of the books,but I just find them really pleasant and comforting,
Beautifully descriptive...........makes me want to visit the Hampshire coast. A bit dated but still a wonderful morality play at its core.
[This is Book #1.] The Eliots of Damerosehay series was my very first experience with E. Goudge novels. What a delightful series full of real people and grand vocabulary.
