https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1216094.Conan_the_Avenger
This is a single story, set after Conan is king of Aquilonia.
Lots of opportunities for him to hook up with old comrades & prove that he's not just a legend, but still has what it takes.I didn't care for the cover art, especially his face, although the scene is actually a good one.
The writing isn't as impressive as some of the other books, but all told it was a pretty good Conan story, especially for those who have read his other adventures, since they're oft referenced.
It's a very fun read.
This was the first book I ever really read.
I was 17 and all the reading I did before was skimming through school stuff that left be very bored and sleeping.Then one day Johnny Treadway loans me this book ...
oh my GOD!!!!!It was like a light shined on me..
it was perfect for the 17 year old I was at the time.When I grow up I wanna be this guy!!!This started it all.
The path to my reading and frankly my intellectualism.
have them read this book.Cool beans,,,,Greg
Малко (всъщност, доста...) попретупано в края, но... на баце Конан не мога да дам по-малко :)
Not one of the better contributions to the early Conan, but it wasn't terrible. It's been years since I read Conan the Conqueror and it was fun to revisit the character, even if this wasn't that great of a contribution.
There is gratuitous use of Deus Ex Machina, which can be forgiven in a short story, but in a novel length work becomes extremely conspicuous, particularly when it happens in every chapter.I think that Conan stories are solely the domain of the short story, and attempts to spin them out to novel length struggle.
Similarly, no matter how nefarious the enemy nor how strong or powerful they seem, you know they are no match for Conan's mighty thews and his primal instincts.
It gets boring after awhile to see yet another 'big, strong, scary, tough bastard' get his ass handed to him by the barbarian without breaking a sweat.
In a novel where it happens chapter after chapter it gets boring quick.
Most of the 'add-ins' in this series by Lin Carter and L. Sprague de Camp at least try to match Howard's style. This, to me does not, nor does the next, Conan of Aquilonia. Of course, it's really a tale by Björn Nyberg, so I suppose that explains it. I rather wish it hadn't been included in this series, but published as a stand-alone.
Hard to beat the original Conan. The character never dies... he just wanders off into unknown lands. Conan is forever.
Bjorn Nyberg was such a huge Conan fan that he decided to write his own Conan story despite not being a native English speaker.
Conan sits as king of Aquilonia when his queen is kidnapped right in front of him.
It's like a highly condensed Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, covering the post-Conan period right up to the start of the present age.
Entertaining in itself, it shows how much effort REH put into his work, writing an entire world history in which to place his characters.
For fan-fiction this is pretty good, for an actual published novel it's significantly short on quality.
The basic idea for the plot is a good one, but it's basically executed as just a rehash of various Conan adventures.
It does get a little better as it nears the end, as there are two cool monster battles that are pretty good.
If this were all edited out, I actually thought this final episode was pretty cool.
It would be cool to see a good writer tackle the ideas presented here because I think there actually is the makings of a decent story here it's just executed in a very mediocre predictable way.
This was my first foray into the Conan universe.
From the get go, the introduction states that Conan The Avenger isn't written by Howard but instead by Bjorn Nyberg (with the help of Sprague de Camp).
Anywho, the point is that it isn't original Howard and you can clearly tell that it's written by a huge fan.
However, in this case, the fan fiction totally works.
Conan The Avenger tells the tale of Conan going to rescue his queen from an evil Khitan (Chinese) necromancer.
Even if you don't know anything about the Conan universe.
Поредната история за Конан, но за съжаление далеч от най-добрите. По-скоро е сборник с разкази за отделни приключения на Варварина, разказани малко като приказка. Не е нещо, което бих запомнил, въпреки че Конан ми е любимец.
Not bad, but reads more like a clip show of previous Conan stories.
I like that it was a complete tale, but it really felt like a long series of short tales that was linked by a common thread, a thread with a very quick and over climax.
This he learns after consulting with the Kothian sorcerer Pelias, whom he rescued in the story, The Scarlet Citadel, from Conan the Usurper (Book 9).
Afterwards, he travels to Vendhya and rescues their ruler, Yasmina, from assassination, a woman he first saved in People of the Black Circle from Conan the Adventurer (Book 5).
Despite (or maybe because of) being monogamous for a year, and in the middle of a quest to find his wife, Conan has no qualms about indulging Yasmina- what happens in Vendhya, stays in Vendhya.
One of the many post-Robert E. Howard Conan tales. Conan, older, still kicks aice.
Conan the Avenger should be read and enjoyed for what it is: fan fiction which was good enough to get published.
It is a fun read in this sense, with Conan, now king of Aquilonia, leaving (temporarily) his throne for a rescue mission which will led him to the other side of the continent.
Two major faults though: the use of a magical ring by Conan, totally out of character and style, and Conan praying to Crom for -unrequired- help from above at the very end.
Björn Nyberg should really be attributed as the principle author, not Robert E.
Howard (Conan's creator), as it's Mr Nyberg who writes the actual story.
I felt that too many scenes where Conan faced great danger were resolved to quickly or/and easily.
Little suspense was in evidence like one would expect in a Howard-composed Conan tale.But, as L.
Sprague de Camp notes in the introduction, Björn Nyberg's first language is not English, so with this in mind I admire his efforts in filling in another gap in the Conan chronology.
Another of the heavily edited collections of Robert E. Howards stories. I am a purist when it comes to a writers works. I know some of these stories are no longer PC but they should be read as Howard wrote them and understood that he wrote in another period. Don't read this book unless you just can't find any others of Howard's unedited books to read. Message me if you need a list of what is good from this awesome fantasy and action writer.
Conan the Avenger (book 10) was an excellent read. After Queen Zenobia of Aquilonia gets kidnapped, King Conan does everything in his power to retrieve his bride and wage war on her captors. The book was very suspenseful and kept you wrapped up in the story. Looking forward to reading the next two Conan books, just to finish off the original series... and because I enjoy them.
Back on the warpathPicturing an older, but still relentless Conan, the authors write a celebratory tale that will take the hero (now ruler of Aquilonia) through an adventure populated by the consequences of his past experiences. Young or old, fighting against man, mage or demon, “the Cimmerian” proves to be the indisputable iconic hero of the Heroic Fantasy genre. Engrossing.
There are many reasons to dislike this book - but the deux ex machina ending with Conan praying to his god, Crom, at the end (and Crom actually helping) is the foremost reason. The geography is screwed up, but the initial plot is kind of fun.
It's amazing to me that people have no concept about these great books that preceded the movies. This book starts with Conan has a fully formed character and tells the story of his negotiations with a week king.
This is your good old sword and sorcery story. Conan the Barbarian goes in search of his wife who has been taken by evil, mysterious creature. I've always loved the Conan stories even though you knew what was going to happen. this a nice afternoon read.
Contains "The Return of Conan" by Bjorn Nyberg and L. Sprague De Camp and part two of REH's "The Hyperborian Age", presumably included so they could put his name on the cover. Cover art by Frank Frazetta.
All the original Conan's are great reads. Always different plots.
Howard had virtually nothing to do with this. The fiction is all pastiche. There is a reprint of part 2 of Howard's essay on the "Hyborian Age."
My favourite Conan story, filled with terrific set pieces as Conan journeys for a showdown with a powerful Eastern sorceror, Yai Chieng
conan and his mighty thews! hoo-rah! where have you gone mister conan, a nation turns its lonely eyes toward you...woo woo woo.
Big fun.
the Conan books were the first and the best big barbarian type books
