https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10975.The_Sound_and_the_Fury
A review paying homage to BENJY COMPSON'S uniquely disorienting narration: BENJY...narrator... lacks sense of time...merger of past and present merge...all the same...disorientation...1928...Easter... Mississippi...Compsons...aristocrat family...hard times... Benjy... mentally handicapped...33rd birthday...Luster...guardian... quarter lost... minstrel show...golf course... golf balls... memory cues... flashbacks... clothes... nail... sister... Caddy... CAAAAAADDDYY!.. 1902... flashback... argume
A review paying homage to BENJY COMPSON'S uniquely disorienting narration:
BENJY...narrator...
Mississippi...Compsons...aristocrat family...hard times...
mentally handicapped...33rd birthday...Luster...guardian...
quarter lost...
minstrel show...golf course...
memory cues...
[stop reading...
soiled clothing...
Benjy crying...
Benjy crying...
red tie and Miss Quentin...
Maury to Benjy...
lie [whew, okay go on]...Dalton Ames...
note to Shreve...
fight with Herbert...
jealous, lonely, sad, rage...
Dilsey comforts...
Mrs. Compson bitches...
Miss Quentin...
Miss Quentin...
Miss Quentin...
old man don’t play...
BENJY = Awesome QUENTIN = Weak JASON = Major Assholio CADDY = Tragic Hero MISS QUENTIN = Rebellious/Low Self Esteem MRS.
COMPSON = Somebody please shoot the BITCH MR.
But gradually, before frustration has a chance to set in, the fog begins to burn off and the glare becomes less direct.
By the time the omniscient narrator closes things out in part four, the scales have been fully removed and you are left with a crystal limpidness in which you can smell the sweet southern honeysuckle and feel the rotting wood of the old barn.It’s interesting to confront another modernist’s take on the human experience of time while concurrently reading In Search of Lost Time.
Because the first section takes place on the day between the third and fourth sections, I skimmed through some of it again before reading the final part.
You won't care about Benjy's plight, or Quentin's, or Jason's, or the whole family's, this Southern strain of blood that ends in a lost oblivion of death, bitterness, and idiocy.
Not even the idiot, who does not know the context and yet feels the agony, much as we the reader feel our way through the chaotic text of this story with an underlying sense of grief and despair, one that cannot be contained in a single quote, paragraph, page, or section.
We know it does, much as anything with a beginning and an end will eventually be lost in the mists of time, and the world will roll on in ignorant bliss of its history.
Reading some books is like clambering through a barbed wire fence at the bottom of a swamp with your oxygen tank about to run out and this is one of those.
When you’re done with it you look round expecting someone to notice and rush up with the medal and citation you completely deserve for services to literature.
You finished it!
But no one does and if you try to explain to your family “Hey wow I finished The Sound and the Fury, man was that difficult, wow, my brain is like permanently rearranged, that Faulkner, what a writer” they just smile placatingly and open another tin of gunk for the cat.
Three of the sections are narrated by the three Compson brothers, Benjy, Quentin and Jason.I think the usual no-spoilers rules doesn't work well with this book: it's so difficult to put the pieces together than I think most readers (like me) need all the help they can get.
If you're a hardcore non-spoiler person, skip the next several paragraphs of this review, until you get down to the Macbeth quote.Benjy, the 33 year old brother who was born severely mentally handicapped, narrates the first section, though in actuality he can't speak.
"Schall und Wahn"is not easy reading. The plot is shattered by flashbacks, cuts, and inner monologues. In each part the narrative perspective changes. In spite of this experimental and innovative narrative, the author succeeds again and again in capturing the reader with the tragic force of history and language and to keep the tension alive. Faulkner portrays his protagonists realistically, without spoiling their character weaknesses.Resume: A dense language, a great atmosphere ... A unique novel ... This world-wide work of art, at the height of Faulkner's creativity, leads to a linguistic treasure. It must be read absolutely.
671. The Sound And The Fury, William FaulknerThe Sound and the Fury is a novel written by the American author William Faulkner. It employs a number of narrative styles, including stream of consciousness. Published in 1929, The Sound and the Fury was Faulkner's fourth novel, and was not immediately successful. In 1931, however, when Faulkner's sixth novel, Sanctuary, was published—a sensationalist story, which Faulkner later claimed was written only for money—The Sound and the Fury also became co
اما: خشم و هیاهو، عنوان کتاب کلیدی واقعی دارد، و با همان ابیات: شکسپیر، در نمایشنامه ی مکبث، که می‌گوید: «زندگی قصه‌ ای است که توسط ابلهی روایت می‌شود، سرشار از خشم و هیاهو ولی پوچ» کاملاً هماهنگی دارد؛ و همچنین با بخش نخستین داستان، که شامل روایت: بنجی ست شباهت دارد.
بخش کونتین نیز پژواکی از عنوان رمان است.
On every page I felt Faulkner was straining at the bit to prove to me he’s a genius.
Except Look Homeward Angel is probably the most overwritten novel in the history of literature.
Faulkner has genius and is in control of it.
Also, you’ve probably got to be prepared to read it twice.
It’s probably every English teacher’s dream book – a book that requires notes formulated by someone with a higher intelligence than your own.
Should a novel require notes?
I’d like to read another Faulkner – but one where he isn’t trying quite so hard to prove he’s a genius.
The first thing that comes to mind in regard to The Sound and the Fury is Eliots a heap of broken images. Deciphering TSTF is like reassembling a shattered mirror; difficult, and likely to end in pain.On the other hand, its hard to deny that its a great book, if only from the standpoint of workmanship. The skill it took to create this piece, composed of so many seperate perspectives, confined to such a narrow and specific moments of time, makes me think of interlocking puzzles carved from a sing
The first thing that comes to mind in regard to ¨The Sound and the Fury¨ is Eliot´s ¨a heap of broken images.¨ Deciphering TSTF is like reassembling a shattered mirror; difficult, and likely to end in pain.On the other hand, it´s hard to deny that it´s a great book, if only from the standpoint of workmanship.
Whether you like it or not, you have to admire the workmanship.That being said, I believe that this book is so highly regarded for exactly the qualities that make it inaccessible to the majority of readers.

Beginning the labyrinth with Benjy's POV is like the set of rules proposed by the mad Faulkner.
DALLOWAY: whereas that one treats one day as an emblem for the titular character, the different characters representing a whole, the Compsons, are made from the same source and yet time is mostly inconsequential as there are enormous spans of time in which the protagonists lingers, and deep gaps where the audience is left to wonder.
The whole experience is one of near madness as the SOUND is described at full length by several sources of consciousness while the FURY is all the reader's own in piecing together all the strands.
Give Faulkner half your month!

La vida es una sombra que camina, un pobre actor que en escena se arrebata y contonea y nunca más se le oye.
Pero leer 'El ruido y la furia' es sin duda un acto de audacia.
Es el ruido de la mente, del pensamiento que no puede ser dominado, el que determina el recuerdo final, siempre fragmentado, roto en un estruendo de sensaciones.
No es posible hallar un hilo narrativo continuado en el lenguaje de Faulkner: se trata de una excepción, un privilegio fugaz que revela que el camino de su prosa poética es siempre fructífero.
Another reviewer said reading the Sound and the Fury was like trying to assemble a jigsaw puzzle with 50% of the pieces missing.
I've come to understand what people mean when they say "Faulkner is not just chronicling the fall of the south.” I think the more important themes here have less to do with the post-reconstruction era/turn of the century south, and more to do with a broader examination of time and history as it relates to the human/family experience.
This is a book that unfolds like nothing I’ve ever read.
Okay, here I go with another one of my dissenting viewpoints. This was my first attempt at reading Faulkner, and I assure you it will be my last. I don't know how this pile of crap ever got published, let alone became a classic! It's absolutely unreadable! Pure upchuck in print. (As always, just my opinion, so don't be offended if you like the book.)
The Twilight-Colored Smell of Honeysuckle One raised or with extended family in the rural South may get chills as I do reveling in Faulkner's enduring phrase, "the twilight-colored smell of honeysuckle." This might stir hazy, almost-haunting memories from childhood of crepuscular visits on the veranda with relatives long since passed, of lilting voices and smiling faces somewhat obscured by time, among them a great-grandparent with a foreign accent who migrated from Europe and would break into
One raised or with extended family in the rural South may get chills as I do reveling in Faulkner's enduring phrase, "the twilight-colored smell of honeysuckle." This might stir hazy, almost-haunting memories from childhood of crepuscular visits on the veranda with relatives long since passed, of lilting voices and smiling faces somewhat obscured by time, among them a great-grandparent with a foreign accent who migrated from Europe and would break into the foreign language, for me his name was Giovanni and he had landed at Ellis Island in 1910, as an eleven-year-old child from Bologna, Italy and by the time I recall visiting him in the early 1970s, he was a jovial, bald man with a thick accent and thicker glasses.Traveling forward fifteen years to my college days, I saw The Sound and the Fury as I was perusing a national bookstore chain and bought it because I felt like any educated native Mississippian must read that mythical author from the northern part of the state to be whole.

Às vezes, penso que talvez a vida que me resta não seja suficiente para ler todos os livros que tenho, e terei ainda, por aqui.
Não fala; os únicos sons que emite são os do medo: gritos gritos gritos...Gosta do fogo que é como o cabelo de Caddy.
"Ela cheirava como as árvores." Pobre Benjy!- Quentin.
It has to be the most painful and pointless book I have read since The Sun Also Rises.
(I know I am treading on precious ground here.) I have read reviews and SparkNotes on the book, so I understand the premise and format.
How do I learn about the fall of an important Southern family if it is just the fragmented sentences of various people who haven't even been introduced?When I read reviews on books like this I can only come to two conclusions; 1) I am an idiot or 2) It is a case of the Emperor's New Clothes.
(hide spoiler)]But if you're not wrong, if you understood and unraveled what this reviewer attempted to say and perhaps even though not for certain did say then you are well ready, perhaps more ready than I am or have ever been or will ever be to engage the author's prose and understand his narrative and immerse into the shades and memories and sins and emphatic utterances of that mythical county buried not only in the deep south but deep also in the psyche of Mr. Faulkner ...
فاکنر رو باید دوست داشت باید تحملش کرد باید باهاش صبوری کرد.
باید سر فرصت و با حوصله رفت سراغشبه محض این که کتاب رو دست بگیرین می فهمین که دارین کار بزرگی انجام میدین با همه ی دشواری هاش ، با همه ی سخت فهمی هاششاید در طول خوندن، دوستش نداشته باشین شاید حتی ازش متنفر بشین ولی بدون شک در انتها به عشقش دچار خواهید شدنکته !!!: حتمن قبل از شروع کتاب یه مختصر مطالعه ای راجع به شخصیت ها و کلیت داستان داشته باشین تا هم کمتر اذیت شین هم بیشتر از کتابتون لذت ببریننکته دوم!!!:احساس نیاز به دوباره خوانی کتاب بعد از اتمام خوندنش کاملا طبیعیه.
نگران نباشین
تمام شد و از یک رنج بی پایان خلاص شدم... پیچیدگی های شخصیتی و زمانی و مشابهت های اسمی و افکار پریشان و جمله های بی پایان... هیچی نمیشه گفت..
Keeping these questions aside, this harrowing story is about the fall of Compson’s family infused with the mixture of poisonous rivalry, infatuated promiscuity, family-or-society-imposed chivalry, materialistic cynicism and developmental disability in forms of the Compson’s children, as nonchalantly mixed and manned by their black servants.(view spoiler)[The self-torrent Quentin, one of the brothers, has to go through, on hearing about the unexpected and unaccepted pregnancy of his dear sister Caddy who he is supposed to protect/ keep safe from becoming impure.
This is how the last two pages of second chapter were!)Quentin claiming to his father that he is into an incestuous relationship with Caddy, to protect her from other men is quite unthinkable.
This book really made me work for it -- I had to read it three times to figure out what the heck it was all about.
Yeah, I understand the whole stream-of-consciousness stuff, I do -- but I read this going: "What the f@k?" I was so freaked about taking the test on this book, that I went and got the Cliff notes on it.
And if a book is so d*mned inaccessible as this one, that a college graduate, writer and dedicated reader can't get it without three readings -- then to hell with it.
Yeah, fine, Ms. Adler, you were right. This is a great book. To-morrow, and to-morrow, and to-morrow,Creeps in this petty pace from day to dayTo the last syllable of recorded time,And all our yesterdays have lighted foolsThe way to dusty death. Out, out, brief candle!Life's but a walking shadow, a poor playerThat struts and frets his hour upon the stageAnd then is heard no more: it is a taleTold by an idiot, full of sound and fury,Signifying nothing. This is a weird weird book. And maybe not in
There’s the probably-my-favorite Quentin section, which is compelling because besides Benjy, Quentin and Caddy are the only white characters in this whole book I don’t want dead.
There’s the Jason section, which I fucking hate because it’s boring and all about the two worst characters in this book and that one underdeveloped character I should like, with occasional Dilsey cameos and a couple of entertaining instances of Miss Caroline Getting Dragged [iconic].
And then, for added bonus, the summary of all the people in this book section that ruins my until-then-valid interpretation of Caddy’s character and is really only worth reading for the one PAGE on Luster and Dilsey.
Yine de bana sorarsanız, Joyce, Woolf, Proust gibi bilinçakışcılarla haşır neşir olanları bile hayrete düşürecek bir tatta.
Faulkner dört bölümde, dört ayrı dilden, ailenin başına gelen tragedyayı anlatıyor.
İlk bölüm Benjy'nin ağzından anlatılıyor.
Onun zihninden geçenleri uzun bir bölümde okuyoruz -ki bence en çarpıcı bölüm buydu- Benim en zorlandığım bölüm de buydu.
İkinci bölümde anlatım Quentin'e yani ailenin erkek çocuğuna geçiyor.
Sonraki bölüm Jason'ın yani ailenin küçük oğlunun kadrajından anlatılıyor, son bölümdeyse Dilsey -ailenin hizmetlisi- alıyor sazı eline.
Kitap bittiğinde uzun bir maratondan yeni çıkmış gibi yorgun bitap düşüyorsunuz ama Campsonlarla tanışmış, daha önemlisi Faulkner'ın biçimsel labirentinden sağ salim çıkmış olmanın mutluluğu hepsine değiyor.
A segunda parte é narrada por Quentin Compson: O primogênito da família, que vendeu um pedaço de terra de Benjy pra custear seus estudos em Harvard.
A situação se agravou quando Quentin soube que seu pai vendera o último pedaço de terra pra pagar o casamento de Caddy e pagar seu primeiro ano de estudo em Harvard.A terceira parte é narrada por Jason .Nessa parte a linguagem e muito mais compreensível.
Instead of references to Classic and Renaissance culture, he explores the darker side of our psyche, people tormented by inner demons and petty concerns.It may be the most confusing section in the story, but after I finished the whole novel I think I understand why Faulkner has chosen Benjy as the first narrator.
He makes me want to check out the poetic works of Faulkner with passages like this, another reference to time and its destructive nature: I give you the mausoleum of all hope and desire.
DNFI don't currently have the patience to give this book the attention it requires. The stream of consciousness used in the first part of the book was a challenge to get through, though it wasn't entirely unenjoyable. I thought it would be easier after finishing that first part, but the writing style of the second part continues to be a challenge. I can't handle it right now. I'm going through grad school and get enough challenging reading there thank you very much. One day when I have more brain capacity freed up I'll come back to this.
Birde, Faulkner romana bir ek bölüm koymayı uygun görmüş, ki iyi ki de görmüş; çünkü bu bölüm o zamana değin okuduğunuz her şeyin öncesini ve sonrasını tutkal gibi birbirine yapıştıran ve anlamla bütünü darbeleri ile tamamlayan kısım olmuş.İlk bölüm, Benjy'in ağzından anlatılan kısım, kitabın en zor bölümü.
Yazar bu bölümü yazarken, kitabın ilk baskısında yayınevinden, zaman sıçramalarını daha anlaşılır kılmak adına, farklı zamanları farklı renklerde basmayı teklif etmiş ama bu masraflı bir işlem olacağından teklifi kabul edilmemiş, Faulkner'da paragrafların arasına italik paragraflar girmeyi uygun görmüş.
