https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72854.Into_the_Wilderness
‘Outlander’ is one of my all-time favourite novels, and like so many of her fans I find myself needing a reading supplement to tide me over between Gabaldon’s four year long writing lapses.‘Into the Wilderness’ is perfect for those ‘Outlander’ fans who really got into the series when Jamie and Claire went to live in the American wilderness.
This is about Nathaniel and Elizabeth – everything else is backdrop and obstacles to their happiness.DIANA GABALDON / SARA DONATIDonati’s series has a few major differences with ‘Outlander’; the main one being an absence of fantasy, because there is no ‘time travel’ plot.It’s tough to fairly compare ‘Outlander’ and ‘Into the Wilderness’.
Reto #24 PopSugar 2017: Un libro que suceda en la naturaleza salvaje Antes de comenzar mi reseña quiero contarles que el personaje principal de esta novela no es ni más ni menos que el hijo de los protagonistas de El último de los mohicanos (no del libro, sino de la película que protagonizara Daniel Day-Lewis, ya que la historia de James Fenimore Cooper tiene un final algo diferente). Comencé el libro sin saber ese dato, pero era inevitable que la ambientación y la caracterización de los person
Antes de comenzar mi reseña quiero contarles que el personaje principal de esta novela no es ni más ni menos que el hijo de los protagonistas de El último de los mohicanos (no del libro, sino de la película que protagonizara Daniel Day-Lewis, ya que la historia de James Fenimore Cooper tiene un final algo diferente).
Comencé el libro sin saber ese dato, pero era inevitable que la ambientación y la caracterización de los personajes no me recordaran a esa maravillosa película, hasta que Elsa me abrió los ojos (gracias!) y, a partir de ahí, si ya me gustaba, definitivamente me enamoró.Como reseña, la verdad, no sé muy bien qué decir que pueda traspasar lo maravilloso que es este libro.
The prose was more readable than most books I've read marketed as romance, even if hardly stellar, but what killed this novel for me is how it takes the "historical" out of historical fiction.
This is set in the New York frontier in 1793, dealing with the twenty-nine-year-old Elizabeth Middleton.
New York is my own state, and the idea of a novel set there during that period intrigued me.
(Poor Jane Bingley, forced to appear in such a tawdry bodice-ripper.) This novel reads like really, really bad fan fiction, one that impoverishes rather than enriches the originals.
INTO THE WILDERNESS by Sara Donati has been an absolute pleasure to read and a experience I won't soon forget.
They seem to always know what I need when I need it-and the absolute joy, heartache, sorrow, love and hate emotions I've just gone through while reading this exceptional book is enough to last me a life time.
They know me well and knew I'd fall in love with both Nathaniel and Elizabeth.
I wish there had been an epilogue, I fee like there is so much more to see and read and I'm struggling with how long I have to wait until I find out what Nathaniel and Elizabeth get up to next.
I read this as an unabridged audiobook and it seemed like tape one consisted of author thank you's and an unending listing of family trees involved in her story and I assumed I'd be in way over my head with this one.
When Elizabeth discovers her father's plan she's already fallen deeply in love with Nathaniel and decides to concoct a little deception of her own which will enable Nathaniel to have the land he so longs to make his own.
It's long but interesting and the characters leap off the page but somewhere midpoint this book just didn't resonate with me the way I expected it to.It was readable but not exceptionally gripping.
Maravillosa, me ha encantado, no tiene desperdicio, muy recomendable.♥♥♥
I enjoyed this book a lot. I made the mistake of listening to someone say it was in the same vein as Outlander, which kind of ruined it for me at first. But then when I just sat back and enjoyed the book for itself, I really enjoyed it a lot. PS How many times can I use "enjoyed" in this review - apparently 3.
No review, I'm too busy getting stuck into book #2 of the series. 4★
For any Diana Gabaldon fans, rejoice, my friends, rejoice!I know you've waited a long time for more Claire and Jamie, with *years* between sequals.
You can bridge that horrible gap with my new find, Sara Donati.OK, I admit, I've only read the first book.
I zipped through this book in four days, ignoring laundry, dishes and my spouse (I did feed the kids) because the story was so darn engrossing.
Nevertheless, there are sequals!
And a quick view of the reviews seems they're not bad.So, while you're waiting for the next installment of Sasenatch and the Bonny Lad from Scotland, go get this book.
With my new found love for historical fiction (thanks to Outlander) and with my love for Last of Mohicans movie, it was just question of time when I would read this book. And I am glad that I chose it for my summer read. I got somehow lighter read than I expected but I enjoyed it nonetheless and I definitely plan to read next instalment!
A big ( about 700 pages) historical fiction saga which combines the Mohawk Indian tribe from James Fenimore Cooper's Last of the Mohicans and late 18th century English settlers in the wilderness of New York.
Also takes on a decidedly Diana Gabaldon ( Outlander series) flare with the addition of the romance between Elizabeth, the old maid schoolmarm and daughter of Judge Middleton the areas biggest landowner, and Nathaniel Bonner, the ruggedly handsome ( of course) frontiersman who though white was raised by the Mohawk.
4 stars - Very enjoyable Buddy read KUYH !!
I ain't the least bit disappointed."INTO THE WILDERNESS consumed me for more days than I've committed to any book in a long long time.
It was part wanting to savour it, part the epic length, part not wanting to fuck up a buddy read (oops, I did it again anyway) and finally just part of the due this book deserves to be given."Pretty women ain't so very rare.
There were certain people I disliked from the start and never grew to love, some who surprised me along the way, and others I can't wait to see more of in the coming books.
I have read all of the books in this series.
I have also read all of the outlander series.
Now for me the outlander series began to fall flat especially in the last few books.
By the time you read all these books you will feel like you are reading your own family history, these characters, Elizabeth, nathaniel, Hannah, Lilly, Daniel, curiosity will move into your heart and will never leave.
I have read and re read this series about five times, it never bores me, I always laugh,cry, smile along with the characters.
Please read.
My favourite books ever.
Nada más llegar a su nuevo hogar, Elizabeth descubre las grandes deudas de su padre, y su empeño por conservar las tierras que tanto tiempo le costó reunir, éste no quiere deshacerse de ellas, y Elizabeth es su única esperanza, pues está dispuesto a desposarla con el rico doctor Richard Todd, dándola como dote la montaña del Lobo Escondido.Ahora es cuando entra en acción el protagonista, Nathaniel Bonner.
Con la llegada de Elizabeth las cosas se complicarían si su padre se sale con la suya y la desposa con Richard Todd, pues éste no dudaría en expulsar a su familia de la montaña, y sus secretos se verían descubiertos.Como en todo buen culebrón, desde el principio sabemos que habrá salseo, sobre todo cuando al inicio del libro se conocen los protagonistas.
I am not into Frontier romances and was reading this for my Romance Across the Ages Challenge, but I am very glad I did read it.The author does a fabulous job of recreating that time and place in America's history, and while the lack of education, the racism and the ruggedness of the characters often got to me, it somehow fitted in so well with the theme, I soon let it go.
(I did find the character of Julian, the heroine's brother, very disturbing and sad.
The Native Americans came across as real individuals.
A very impressive, well-researched book that had me breathless until the end.
Sadly, this book didn't really capture my interest, especially since I had hear such good things about it.
I just couldn't believe that a woman of Elizabeth's education would fall in love with someone who routinely used the word "aint."As he has often been compared to Jamie from "Outlander", it is important to remember that Jamie was an educated aristocrat, the nephew of the laird of Clan MacKenzie, and a laird in his own right through his mother's land holdings.
In fact, I would have easily bought into the idea of Elizabeth falling in love with a Jamie type character, but Nathaniel...
The two lead characters, Elizabeth and Nathaniel are ones to measure up to.
The description was superb, even though this is not country I can identify with, I think I conjured a good version in my imagination, in people, clothing, wilderness, animals, smells and culture.We talk about strong heroines in books but Elizabeth Middleton is one of the most notable strong women I have ever had the pleasure to meet in a book.
The culture was hugely interesting to me; the Mohawk people and life made for fascinating reading, especially Elizabeth's navigation of that world.
I have really enjoyed the first book in the series entitled Into the Wilderness.
The basic storyline has been well-researched and there is great depth in the character development.
It is refreshing to have the main character depicted for her intelligence, her analytical skills, and her strong resourcefulness.
This is not your typical historical fiction with bodice ripping and muscular physiques on every page.
Elizabeth is even deemed a spinster, being a woman in her late twenties, not a robust 18 year old.
The backdrop of major historical events adds to the challenges faced by the characters in that time period.
Cooper's writing may not be stellar, but the original plot was wonderful, tragic ending and all; and when I realised that Donati had written an alternate version of said plot, I wasn't exactly happy because I learnt she opted for the film's version of Hawkeye and Cora's stories instead of the book plotline.
This novel by Donati turned out to be along the plot of the film rather than follow the Leatherstocking Tales, in that it picks up the alternate plotline of Hawkeye and Cora ending up together just like in the film, and inserts as a new element their having a son to become a protagonist here.
Una gran novela, poco puedo aportar a las buena reseñas que otras lectoras han escrito. Gracias a Elsa por la recomendación. Estas semanas de lectura han sido maravillosas, con una pareja protagonista que engancha como pocas ^^. Seguiré leyendo la saga, quedan muchos temas pendientes.Leedlo. Merece la pena. De nada ;)
I'm so surprised that the majority of the reviews for Into the Wilderness are most concerned about explaining why it has nothing to do with the Outlander series or why, on the contrary, its author, Sara Donati, is Ms. Gabaldon's perfect little disciple, just because she's friends with her and writes HR.Guys, get over Outlander!
Not even Ms. Gabaldon wrote the same book twice, why would another person - another author - with her own writing style and brain, and voice and ideas, want to replicate that?
Elizabeth Middleton has a mind of her own.
In the twilight of the 1700's that is not a good thing.
In matters of politic and romance, Elizabeth and her outspoken beliefs stand alone....almost.
It has been quite a while since I have found a story that so captivated me from the get-go.
Not since The Outlander series have I been so taken.
And I found it interesting that Ms. Donati has given a nod to Ms. Gabaldon(obviously with her permission), interweaving Ian Murray and Claire and Jamie Frasier briefly in the story.
This is a series that I look forward to continuing very soon.
The writing literally varied per page--one paragraph would be great and the next paragraph would take you mentally out of the book.
You'd be reading Elizabeth's POV for pages and then suddenly it would be Nathaniel's, no break or warning.
It was awkward to say the least.Again regarding the writing, the characters just weren't believable and some of the situations they were presented with were downright silly.
Going into the book I thought that it could be fun, especially as I knew Diana Gabaldon had had some influence on Donati's writing (as Donati herself acknowledges in her Notes).
I enjoyed this as a summer read.
It definitely wasn't as deep as many other historical fictions novels I've read.
It felt much more like historical romance.
The funny thing is, the romance wasn't my favorite part of the book.
I actually liked the setting and the Native American characters the best.
I listened to a lot of this and think the narrator did a nice job especially with the Scottish and Native accents and words.
I didn't go into this with huge expectations, so just found it a light and interesting read.
I could see checking out the next in the series to see what happens.
The author could have built tension and developed her characters through dialogue or more thoughtful plotting.
Instead she writes things like "And she walked off toward the river with her husband close behind, to tell him what he needed to know." The reader isn't privy to their conversation because we already know what happened to Elizabeth, but wouldn't it be more interesting if we found out at the same time Nathaniel did?
Nope, we simply jump forward in time and the important conversation is ignored.For me, there were a lot of moments like that, where I was mentally editing and asking myself "now, why did the author do that?" Poison for this reader because I was not entertained enough to ignore the mechanics and focus on the story.
I am a huge fan of the Outlander series and pretty much anything Diana Gabaldon decides to write so I read Into the Wilderness because of her praise and her fans' praise for this novel.
I don't know if my attitude was wrong coming into this novel, I was expecting maybe too much but Elizabeth Middleton's character was too routine.
I suppose if I grow tired of waiting for Gabaldon's next novel, and run out of other books to read I will give the sequel to Into the Wilderness a go.
She is a 29 year old "spinster" determined to create a school for all the children of the village-slave owner's children, Mohawk, slaves, an idea that quickly creates conflict.She soon meets Nathaniel Bonner, a white Scotsman living among the Mohawks with his young daughter, Hannah, and his and Elizabeth's developing relationship keeps the story moving.With so many characters and sub-plot lines, there were many places the story was slow for me, but overall there was enough action and suspense to keep me reading to the mostly satisfying end
I loved this story set in the 1790's, mostly in upper New York State.
I was immediately drawn into their lives, the characters and plot were very well done.
There is a large cast of characters but fortunately there is a list at the beginning of my book which I had to refer to from time to time.
I enjoyed the survival bits in the wilderness and some parts were also suspenseful.
My only one minor complaint is that one love scene had a little too much information for me.
I will definitely be reading the next book in the series.
Good book with strong likable characters. I was really pulled into the plot and Donati is great with descriptive narrative as well. I could picture the people andthe settings. However, I don't usually read books of this length and I was ready for the book to end about halfway through. Having said that, I am now having trouble choosing my next book because I was so caught up in this story.
"One of those rare stories that let you breathe the air of another time, and leave your footprints on the snow of a wild, strange place." -Diana Gabaldon"Into the Wilderness", is an epic story set in the late 1700s, about a young English woman named Elizabeth who decides to travel to the vast wilderness of New York in search of adventure and change.
With similarities to stories such as, "Gone with the Wind" and "Outlander", you are definitely transported to another time; which I really loved!
I thought it was a bit rushed and too romance-y in parts, but this is a six book series so I'm looking forward to continuing on!
