https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79331.The_Courage_of_Sarah_Noble
This book, with all its troubling details, is perhaps most troubling in its overall voice and perspective: instead of helping other white readers to examine Sarah's fears and to think about what her arrival might also mean for the people who already live there, Sarah is presented as being courageous for having faced her fears and survived her hardships, and the contact she grows to have with "the Indians" is all rather condescending and one-sided.Response 2 (after reading the Oyate evaluation): Reading Doris Seale's evaluation of this book was an excellent exercise in "insider/outsider" understanding for me.
I know this book has been criticized for portraying Native Americans in a negative light and propagating false information about them, but, considering that it is based on a true story and from the point of view of an 8-year-old pioneer girl in the 1700s, it is probably an accurate portrayal of what people would think or say about Native Americans at the time.
People were still calling Native Americans "Indians," and I'm not going claim to know how much of history had been revised then, but I know much more has come to light since then.
It's not that bad: A defense of Sarah Noble Read in the most flattering light, Sarah Noble is a story of relationships conquering racism.
For example, Sarah Noble is terrified of the Indians until she spends some time with them.Some readers complain about the passage in which Sarah wonders whether she is allowed to pray for Indians.
Authenticity is a bigger issue, though.The authenticity problemHow accurate is this book, and how much should Alice Dalgliesh be held accountable?
"Not that bad" is hardly a good reason to pick up a book.
The simple yet lovely writing structure and the beautiful black and brown illustrations by Leonard Weisgard places this book in my list of favorite childhood reads that spawned a lifelong love of historical fiction and non-fiction.Sarah Noble was an 8 year old girl who traveled with her father to the Connecticut wilderness in 1707.
I think even controversial literature can provide learning lessons and open a dialog towards greater understanding.Personally, I was captivated by this simple little story, and am happy to give it the 5 stars I feel it deserves.*** 2012 personal reading challenge for the month of January: 
I love this book
This review also appears on my blog, Read-at-Home Mom.The Courage of Sarah Noble is a short chapter book set in 1707, which is suitable for second and third graders.
Instead of finding a way to be offended, as is the popular thing to do these days, I'd rather look at the book as a product of its time and use it in the way I believe it was intended - to introduce concepts of tolerance and kindness to young kids for whom this age-old subject matter is brand-new territory.
I'm seriously rethinking my goal of reading all Newbery medal and honor books.
Some of the early ones are very silly and not worth the time spent in reading them.This was a Newbery honor book from 1955 regarding a young nine year old girl who travels in the wilderness with her father to stake claim to land cleared by American Indians.
Sarah befriends the Indians and stays with them when her father returns home to fetch the rest of the family to live in the house newly built with the help of the Indians.Perhaps at the time it was written it was refreshing to see American Indians portrayed positively.
https://www.newstimes.com/news/articl...
Moving to a new home, surrounded by rumors of evil natives (indians), circled by strangers with a a foreign tongue, after a long journey on foot, Sarah Noble remembers the parting words her mother gave her to keep her strong.
Through all the scary trials- and there are quite a many for a young child- Sara Noble takes you with her as she learns to brave through things while still being afraid, finding the best type of courage of all.
As for the structure of the book, the words are larger, the pages are numbered, and the pictures are cute and expressive, while simple.
I'd forgotten that it is based on a true story, making it all the more important.
I love Sarah's character development as she continuously faces challenges that most eight year olds would not have to face.
Living in the woods with her father to cook with him, far away from her home and family, she learns to fend for herself.
When her father needs to retrieve the rest of the family, he leaves her alone with an indian family.
This challenge forces her to pull out all of her courage.
This is a beautiful story that I definitely recommend.
Cute story for young readers and audiences of all ages. My children from 3years to 15 years enjoyed the reading of it. Liked how it showed time period concerns.
Really nice story. I will be sharing it with my 9 year old daughter. I was surprised at how contemporary the thought processes were, given the year it was published (1954). It has very good themes about inclusion, racism, and the courage it takes to embrace others different from you when your culture is against it--but simplistic enough that it is eminently readable.
This is a favorite book to share with my little girls. Our family lives in a poverty-stricken country in East Africa where our kids are regularly expected to be brave and mingle with people who have very different living conditions, customs, and ways of interacting and playing. I love Sarah Noble's inner struggle through this short story and also her child-like trust in the native American people who care for her.
I rate this book at 3.5 stars. Some of it's content is problematic but the book was set in the early 17oos when some people held these views. Setting that aside, the story was still enjoyable and I liked how Sarah's character developed through this book.
My boys and I read this in one short sitting and all enjoyed it
A story of Christian people, not like a children's book would be written today at all, with the main theme of having courage even when you are scared.
It's been ages since my last read of this and for some reason I thought a danger was coming but, nope, no scares, just day-to-day wilderness, frontier life; family separates, reunites, the end.
Modern day children would probably find this boring if read by themselves.
Audio or someone with a good storyteller's voice (my children enjoyed mine:-) could read aloud to bring more life to it for them.

We read this book last summer. We now have a saying...."Keep up your courage, keep up your courage" from this book. Definitely going to read again so my six (and eight) year old will remember it even more. 3/31/15Ellie read this book to herself and rated it 5 stars as part of the Pizza Hut Book It program...krb 10/6/16
This was another fantastic read-aloud. Set in early 1700s America, the simple story inspired courage and bravery in the face of the unknown. Emma was absolutely captivated and we read the entire second half in one sitting.
Another one I listened to. Found in our library and thought I'd give it a try. I appreciated the historical value, but found it to be an anticlimactic story -- especially in today's age. Enjoyed it, but wouldn't recommend it :-/
This book is a treasure. Even though it was published in the mid-1950s, it does not feel dated, and the illustrations still seem to jump off of the pages. I enjoyed reading it as an adult, and girls in grades 1-4 would probably enjoy it as much as I did.
good historical fiction
Good historical fiction for the elementary school set. Dalgleish handled the prejudices of the time well.
What a lovely story! Perfect for all ages, especially the 6-10 range. Vivien read this as part of her history curriculum and after she referenced it a few times I knew she wanted to discuss it.
Assigned for American literature per several suggestions of various texts. Too simple, even for a five year old, and I did not like how it portrayed the Native Americans.
It is a historical fiction book based on a true story about a girl who goes out to find a home for her family with her dad.
Even though she had a fun time with the Indians, she is glad her family is all back together again.I would recommend this book to any second or third-grade girl that is just starting to read chapter books.
Little girls could relate to Sarah because I am sure there is a time where they had to do something they were scared to do.
I also like that it was based on a true story.
Read this book four times, once as a kid.
As a Christian adult, I picked up on some things kids probably wouldn't.
But again that's probably liberal theology from those times by Alice Dalgliesh.
So it is probably Dalgliesh's conjecture that makes him not even try to learn his name, although that certainly could have been his mindset, perhaps it was not.
A second example is when Dalgliesh acts as though both Sarah's religion and Tall John's are equally valid, and though I don't know much at all about Native American religion, I do understand animism, and even prayer would not be seen the same way.
This is a delightful book that teaches courage, compassion, friendship and tolerance during the settlement era of the 18th century.
Sarah although initially frightened soon learns that she has nothing to fear from the Indian children who live nearby.
These new friends provide companionship and eventually a home for Sarah when her father travels home to bring back the rest of the family.
She soon learns that the Indian home life is full of love and not so different from her own.
I highly recommend this book as a resource while teaching young children U.S. History as a discussion piece for compassion and tolerance.
Russell (age 7.5) has been asking a lot of questions about history and when things were invented etc.
It was written in the 1950s and has a lot of dated language and ideas about Native Americans which were good things to talk about with my child.
It also has some fairly outdated, sexist ideas as well.
I think it is good to expose kids to all types of ideas and stories though.
There was an overall message of befriending everyone and doing hard things which makes it a good story.
My son liked the book and asked lots of questions about the time period which definitely made it worthwhile.
I thought it intriguing that an eight year old girl would travel into an area so remote and probably considered dangerous, SO SHE COULD COOK!
That just proves what I have often said--liking to cook can get you into trouble.
But on the other hand, this little girl is remembered and has achieved some fame for her bravery.
Also, I was surprised when I read other reviews of this book and learned that Native Americans objected to the way they were depicted in this book.
Maybe I should read it again.
