https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5261.A_Backward_Glance
But it was in Paris that I found the necessary formula.”She talks about writing her books, both fiction and non-fiction, but she doesn’t discuss them in depth as that is not the object of her exercise.Of her fictional characters she says:“From the first I know exactly what is going to happen to every one of them; their fate is settled beyond rescue, and I have but to watch and record.”Travels, homes and gardens“Perhaps, after all, it is not a bad thing to begin one's travels at four.” Ms Wharton travelled a great deal, and also lived abroad from time to time.
Edith Wharton was one of the best writers of the 20th century. The excellence of her entire body of work ranks her right up there with the best of her era. In this volume she takes a look back at her own life; the novels, her marriage, her friends, and her life as an American living in Paris. Her good friend, Henry James, wrote the introduction, and it's a must read for anyone who is a fan of Wharton's novels.
Her account of Henry James' decline and death during the war, in a nightmare of empathetic anguish, is hard reading: I have never seen any one else who, without a private personal stake in that awful struggle, suffered from it as he did.
I should have liked to have him standing beside me the day the victorious armies rode by; but when I think of the years intervening between his death and that brief burst of radiance I have not the heart to wish that he had seen it.
While Edith Wharton's book is not 'tell it all,' it still does not disappoint.
This might be of some value for the budding writers.Since I have not read any of her fiction so far, in her non-fiction she comes across as someone who is elitist and moves only in select circles.
Two chapters are exclusively written about her time spent in London and Paris.
She prefers Paris of the times far more than London.
Edith Wharton, being such an elitist, might prefer the word 'exquisite' for her language than the ordinary-sounding word 'fresh.'
When she observes that after "The House of Mirth" was published (1905) "my husband and I decided to exchange our little house in NY for a flat in Paris," we know that the hovel accommodated 3-4 servants and could be divided into 6 apartments.Edie needs a villa in Paris to replace "the emptiness of life in a hotel." Meanwhile, off to the French and Italian Rivieras.
Wharton gives a sympathique study of the very rich/very gay Sturgis (she's blinkered) who was deeply wounded that James didnt like his fascinating novel, "Belchamber."She also includes a Fun Fact : in France, at a dinner party, the "host and hostess sit opposite one another in the middle of the table." Or did pre-war.
Edie was a lady.
Wharton's writing is every bit as clear and lucid as in her novels, and I really liked the look at her own life and background.
I especially liked her understated wit and her early amazement at becoming a well-known writer, which makes her seem very human and approachable; here's a favorite passage: "I had written short stories that were thought worthy of preservation!
Any one walking along the streets might go into any bookshop, and say: 'Please give me Edith Wharton's book'; and the clerk, without bursting into incredulous laughter, would produce it, and be paid for it, and the purchaser would walk home with it and read it, and talk of it, and pass it on to other people to read!"
Edith Wharton is one of my favorite authors, and I've been waiting to read this autobiography since I saw all of the great reviews when it first came out. It certainly did not disappoint-- chock full of insights about the books and Wharton's life without being too confessional.
The word “thwarted” comes to mind.
Let me open it at random:“Having married early, and been soon left a widower, he had lived for many years in Paris; but his children were growing up, the time had come for his sons to enter Harvard, and the year of my marriage he returned to New York, where he had built himself a charming house.
In case you’re dying to know, she’s writing about a person named Egerton Winthrop.Part IINow I realize why the word "thwarted" came to mind: it's in her name:Edi thWhart on
Too often these memories just amount to a list of people she knew or various anecdotes that were probably funny at the time but left me a little cold.
But as always, her prose is fantastic and as a result it's still pretty pleasant to read.It's hard to not compare A Backward Glance to Speak, Memory.
Nabokov and Wharton were both insufferably aristocratic and they were both fantastic prose stylists.
Her aristocratic snobbishness is pretty amusing at times, though (at one point she relates that Melville wasn't welcome in high society because of his "deplorable bohemianism").
Found this book by accident at a used book store. It reads slowly, but she's fun to listen to, a Victorian diction, true 'old-school' manner. It was like visiting with an old aunt. As a feminist, it reminded me that it was not so long ago that women were not encouraged to have a career of any sort, and that many of us were functionally illiterate, even the wealthy.
This autobiography is little more than a romp down memory lane, from her giddy, embarrassingly girlish descriptions of her Victorian clothing and even bonnets, as a child and outings with her beloved father.Just when people like Henry James are introduced and she starts traveling and hanging out with literati in Newport, we think, "Oh!
All we get are little, nitpicking details about James' eccentricities, written with condescending affection, and supposedly humorous, yet omniscient anecdotes about her "knowledge" of the "hill folk" of the Berkshires, once she gets her summer mansion, "The Mount", in Lenox, Massachusetts.
Why 5 stars, why the heart?
Why, if only for the first few pages, I would give this book 10 stars!
Wharton's star shines brightest when she explains what to expect from this memoir, and why: every other sentence and paragraph stands out as a quotable quote.
While she does tend to ramble on about Henry James, this is excusable, as she also highlights her great friendships with other notable intellectuals and raconteurs of her day.
It's interesting to note how most of her closest friendships were with older or much younger men.
If you had to choose one hundred people from your life to include in a memoir, whom would you choose? What would you write about each person? Such is the essence of A Backward Glance. Key details of Wharton's own life are often glossed over or excluded.
I thoroughly enjoyed this and now want to visit The Mount even more than before. Even if I didn't enjoy this as a whole, the chapter on Henry James alone would've been worth the read.
And her outlook on life was inspiring:In spite of illness, in spite even of the archenemy sorrow, one can remain alive long past the usual date of disintegration if one is unafraid of change, insatiable in intellectual curiosity, interested in big things, and happy in small ways.I also cannot express how much I enjoyed the stories Wharton told about her beloved friend, the Master, Henry James.
One thing I've noticed in reading both Wharton's novels and this book is that it is helpful - for me, necessary - to have a dictionary and computer nearby so I can look up the many words I don't know and the many references to people and places unfamiliar to me.
What this book offers is a look at moments in Wharton's life which she felt were most important to set down as the most influential.
So it was good, but as this is the first thing I've read of Wharton - I admit, an odd choice - I found myself not overwhelmingly drawn in by the subject matter.Add to that my general ignorance of the literary time period in which, and of which, she wrote and the whole thing was kind of disposable to me.
People come and go - a lengthy list of names I'm sure making up the who's who of the time - but almost all of them are unknown to me (though H.G. Wells makes a brief -as in one sentence - appearance).There were exceptions to what saw as disposable.
Valutazione 3,5Una biografia di taglio mondano, poco privata e molto pubblica in cui, in un tourbillon di aneddoti divertenti, di viaggi, incontri con eminenti personalità del mondo artistico, accademico, politico, letterario la Wharton ci porta in giro per mezza Europa, a contatto con quel mondo intellettuale a lei congeniale che la formò e la educò come scrittrice, fino al duro impatto con la Prima Guerra Mondiale che, per certi versi, segna la fine di tale società.
Wharton loved to share all the details of her exciting, elitist’s lifestyle but when it came to her losses, Wharton completely ignores them.
According to her publisher in 1934, regarding her autobiography, “it was so unrevealing that its publishers, to Wharton's fury, tried to adjust their contract to permit severe cutting of what they called long "dull" parts.” www.http:www.penguinclassics.co.uk/nf...Most likely in order to keep her reputation, Wharton decided not to include both her 1913 divorce with her husband Teddy, who took a mistress, embezzled money, and suffered from mental illness.
And her brief, passionate love affair (at age 46) with journalist Morton Fullerton.
Edith Wharton has written many novels, some of which (House of Mirth; Ethan Fromme; The Age of Innocence) have been made into movies.
Although I felt put off once or twice at a touch of snobbishness due to her upbringing, I fell in love with her written words.
I most especially enjoyed her stories about her friend Henry James.
It is here that Edith Wharton is at her most poignant.
I recommend this book to anyone who has read her novels or the novels of Henry James, or who is interested in pre-WW1 life.
wanted to love this, i really did. but i also wanted to know something more personal about edith wharton, and although i heard a lot about her friends and europe and new york, i didn't feel like it went as deep as i wanted it to. for instance, what was her marriage really like? her husband seems to be a minor figure in her life based on this account--can that really be true? so although i enjoyed the tone and the writing itself, it was very unsatisfying.
Bit of a dull read - lots of lists of books read and people seen, and being broadly unfamiliar with both reading through them was a bit of a slog. May recommend reading a biography of Wharton rather than this autobiography.
emojiiiiii!!!!! 🐙🐙🐙🐙🐙🐙🐙🐙🐙
An extraordinary woman who became a leading writer of the day--even more extraordinary because she became a writer in an age when women in her day in upper crust NYC were expected only to attend society events.
Edith Wharton's Backward glance explains her love of books and writing at an early age.
During WWI she traveled to the western front in Belgium and France bringing relief supplies to hospitals and refugees.
Her books ends: Life is the saddest thing there is, next to death; yet there are always new countries to see, new books to read (and, I hope to write), a thousand little daily wonders to marvel at and rejoice in....
I quite liked this book and had some serious disagreements with the intro by Louis Auchincloss - it comes off as far more dated than Edith's writing does.
He also wonders that she didn't talk about her husband but focused instead on her relationship with Sturgis - it's like come on Auchincloss, really?
Her real emotional life was in her friendship with other writers, most of them men - so go sit down somewhere and feel sorry for her husband there, not it the intro to her autobiography.
Edith Wharton......one of the greatest novelists in her time wrote in such a way that her words are still relevant today.
To read her life story in her own words was a real treasure.
Her life was one of privilege and she did shy away from that, but her honesty is what struck me.
Her words of her own life mirror the structures of her characters she wrote about.
She wrote at the end “I am born happy every morning”.
Whether that was reality for her or just a state of mind, to be able to put it in words; what joy!
On my last vacation, I visited Edith Wharton's beloved home, the Mount, in the Berkshires of western Massachusetts, even though I had never read anything by her. I have now corrected that oversight by reading her memoir, A Backward Glance. At first, I was put off by her recounts of endless dinners and gatherings, thinking that she was a bit of a name-dropper. Then, I realized that she was born in the late 1800s, before telephones, television, and cell-phones were invented. Of course, that's how people entertained themselves! Then her writing made perfect sense.
More interesting than I might have expected, but only just. Her society friends didn't talk about her writing, as it was looked down upon as a career. Friends with Henry James and Teddy Roosevelt, she found herself marooned in Paris in 1914, and spent the next four years working with refugees, and the last twenty years of her life in France. New York figured much more prominently in her work than it did in her life.
This is a well-written autobiography, but I it can be hard to follow as Edith Wharton drops names and places and adds foreign phrases that need to be deciphered. Her life appears to have been a whirlwind of parties and socials and things out of place in today's world. I feel I can better understand her novels, having spent some time with her life.
Such beautiful writing... Wharton chooses, as she has the right, to be selective about her sharing. One comes away, not with a complete timeline of places and people, but with a sense of knowing the kind of person Edith Wharton was, how she thought and felt. Of course, she crafts this picture for the reader through her exquisite prose.
