https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7247854-the-disappearing-spoon
You can finish it in a few days in bite-sized chunks, it doesn’t overpower you academically, you learn a little, and the subject is something entirely new to you, which allows you to ‘escape’ mentally just as you are physically from that 50-hour, weekly cubicle career and hateful commuter traffic.The book catalogues the 200 year history of the piecemeal development of the periodic table in chemistry.
You learn as much about the brilliant, boisterous, bi-polar, bastardly, and braggadocio scientists as you learn about each element on the periodic table.
In carborane's case you get H+ and an elaborate cagelike structure formed by everything else (CB11C111-) With most acids it's the negative portion that's corrosive and caustic and eats through the skin.
Its boron atoms share electrons so generously that it practically becomes helium, and it won't go around ripping electrons from other atoms, the usual cause of acidic carnage.Well, this could be part of the rules of Quidditch for all the sense it makes to poor general reader me, so I think The Disappearing Spoon is really for science geeks who think stuff about German chemists being hornswoggled out of a Nobel Prize for Alchemy by some Californian sharpies in 1951 or a neat account of the crucial properties of the biomolecule which are called handedness is the very thing for those moments on the beach when there isn't any eye candy around.
It is much more of a rambling collection of stories and facts and quirky science knowledge.That said, I couldn't get back to reading this fast enough.
Growing up, I never loved science.
So, in summary, this book is written for all levels of science (or not) nerds.
It is full of incredible tales and the fun secrets and stories of the people involved in the development of the periodic table (and science as we know it).I will absolutely be rereading this book - most definitely when the boys are learning the periodic table in school.
The Disappearing Spoon is, quite literally, one of the most fascinating, informative, FUNNY, books about the Periodic Table that I've ever read.
Okay, it is the only book about the Periodic Table that I've ever read - but it is amazing.
For those who love science or for those who simply would like to better under the elements that make the cosmos what it is, then this is a must read for you!!
As for the "disappearing spoon" trick - well, you'll just have to read the book to find out the secret to this parlor trick for yourself!
It’s a wonderful way to learn and/or deepen knowledge of chemistry.
Much appreciated by me was that the information imparted was over my head only a very few times, and that’s saying a lot, because I’ve never taken a chemistry class.This book covers the elements of the periodic table via its history and by telling stories about the various elements: their history of discovery, how they’ve been used at various times, various people who found ways to make use of them.
So many subjects are covered including astronomy, war, South Pole exploration, health and illness and poisoning, history, other sciences, the personalities of those who have contributed to the findings in the field, and so much more.
This book was funny, interesting, even gripping at times, and always engaging.
I guess it would take more than a fun book to turn me into a chemistry person.
This meant I could feel virtuous for once while I ignored my various responsibilities in favor of more reading.So not only did I get to enjoy a good book, I feel vindicated in my ongoing belief that a a sufficiently good writer can make any topic interesting, even to a reluctant reader.
This does for the periodic table what I am always trying to do for math....link the science to the historical events, the people, and the economics that push scientific discoveries.
I was fascinated by the many details about the hunt for elements, the private lives of the Curies, the radioactive boy scout, the dangers of storing rare elements in the Congo, and that the same man who invented nitrogen rich fertilizers, is also the inventor of zyklon B.
It also made me want to read more about The Manhattan Project, so I guess its time to put the Rhodes book on my wishlist.
This book took me 76 days, or almost three months, to read. In this case, I needed all seventy-six individual days to work my brain through passages like this one: For instance, thirteen aluminium atoms grouped together in the right way do a killer bromine: the two entities are indistinguishable in chemical reactions. This happens despite the cluster being thirteen times larger than a single bromine atom and despite aluminium being nothing like the lacrimatory poison-gas staple ... The clusters
In this case, I needed all seventy-six individual days to work my brain through passages like this one:
For instance, thirteen aluminium atoms grouped together in the right way do a killer bromine: the two entities are indistinguishable in chemical reactions.
This happens despite the cluster being thirteen times larger than a single bromine atom and despite aluminium being nothing like the lacrimatory poison-gas staple ...
The clusters work like this.
What an appropriate way to explain jellium, a state I've always been interested in!", then you are less of an idiot than me and will probably enjoy this book very much.
I should have liked this book more and I can't really explain why I didn't.
It was like pulling teeth, only a bit less painful, even without the option of novocaine.I think part of it was that the book wasn't well organized.
The author seemed to jump around the periodic table at his whim without keeping a consistent framework (perhaps that was the point, it was a bit unclear to me).
Anyway, the writing is OKish enough and it is certainly very well researched, so I can understand why many people have liked it.
I'm going to have to stop saying that I don't like non fiction.
This is the 3rd "science ish" book I have enjoyed recently.
This was an interesting look at history as told thru the periodic table.
I can't really speak to the accuracy of the science but I really enjoyed reading all the tales.
I recognized a lot of the science names but learned some knew things about them.
The parts I found the most interesting were how great an effect WWII had on science and scientists and the parts about mental health and brain health.
"Never underestimate spite as a motivator for genius."I can't really speak to the scientific accuracy of this book, but I really enjoyed listening to the stories that come from the periodic table.
Coincidentally, I am also reading Rites of Spring: The Great War and the Birth of the Modern Age, a book with a lot of parallels to The Disappearing Spoon.
Sean Runnette has a unique voice that I enjoyed in zombie stories but still translated well to science!I will leave you with a song I could not get out of my head during my listen to the second half of the book.
Dissolving two noble medals before the nazis arriveDescription: Incredible stories of science, history, finance, mythology, the arts, medicine, and more, as told by the Periodic Table.
And why is gallium (Ga, 31) the go-to element for laboratory pranksters?*The Periodic Table is a crowning scientific achievement, but it's also a treasure trove of adventure, betrayal, and obsession.
These fascinating tales follow every element on the table as they play out their parts in human history, and in the lives of the (frequently) mad scientists who discovered them.
THE DISAPPEARING SPOON masterfully fuses science with the classic lore of invention, investigation, and discovery--from the Big Bang through the end of time.
This book constipated my reading for almost a month.
So then, why the hell did I find this book so hard?It's precisely because the book is a collection of anecdotes that it was so hard to read.
Actually, that's a lousy metaphor: quicksilver is a glistening hypnotic liquid because its atoms stick together.
These atomic anecdotes didn't: nothing stuck in my head, nothing stuck to each other.
I want to know the anecdotes.
I want them to stick.
I am going to have to work at it, however, beyond simply reading the book, if that is to happen.
That said and I have read a number of chemistry books both for fun and for academic reasons (yes okay I am chemist) but I did like how the author approached the subject of each chapter.
I will admit that it did sort of follow a formula in that he would explain the focus of the chapter (which element or family of elements) a long with hints of entertaining stories and anecdotes.
He would then go back to these stories and explain them further - with the idea that he would reinforce the message of each chapter.
The degree of anthropomorphizing of atoms in the introductory chapters has left me completely puzzled about the actual science involved.
How does that even work?However, the chapter on chemical warfare has been (disturbing but) interesting.
Most of the chapter discusses chemical warfare in Europe around the World Wars.
Therefore, most of the chapter is about named individuals -- chemists and soldiers and heads of state.
Gruesome stories circulated about 'the Hun' during the war, too, but I didn't see those stories getting a whole lot of coverage in this science book and for good reason -- so why are the stories about Congolese atrocities getting uncritically repeated here?
In a breezy style, Kean intersperses chemistry and physics with a potpourri of stories revolving around the elements.
He blends complex science and human interest in his examples of how the elements have been used and influenced history.
Kean transitions quickly from deep discussions of atomic structure or quantum mechanics to oddities such as the nutcase who turned blue eating silver because he thought there would be no antibiotics after Y2K.
He also fills his book with obscure facts such as how many ounces of the element astatine there are on the earth.
It’s also the perfect book for readers with short attention spans.
It is packed with interesting anecdotes about scientists who explored the outer fringes of the periodic table.
I even learned a little bit of chemistry.
The book is organized in an intelligent manner--each chapter is devoted to some theme, with a small group of elements that fit into that theme in some way.
Sometimes the author strays from the exploration of elements, but he always seems to relate to the chapter's theme.
The only thing that puts me off a bit, is the author's style.
It is a rather folksy style, where the words "um", "well", and "friggin" can be found in the middle of a sentence.
This book was lots of fun, and it certainly taught me more than I ever learned in high school chemistry class. Quite honestly, if someone had asked me for a definition of "chemistry" before, I don't think I would have known what to say. At the same time, The Disappearing Spoon wasn't like a lecture in the least bit, and instead folded tons of scientific information into stories about the scientists and their accomplishments. I'd recommend it to anyone who's curious about a subject they may have only encountered at the 101 level.
This book was an interesting compendium of stories linking up the various elements of the Periodic Table.
Not only did I learn about the various scientists who discovered this or that element, but I learned a good deal about many of the elements themselves.
And I didn't even realize that elements can change (or decay) into other elements.
Now I know how it can happen (though not every element does this.) Lots of cool facts and odd stories about odd scientists are embedded in this book.
Recommended for anyone interested in science, especially those without a Ph.D. It's rocks for jocks.
Many tales from the trenches of chemistry and physics - including who was sleeping with who, who was screwing who over, and who totally slept through the most controversial parts of a new theory criticizing the one they came up with.An entertaining read about why the periodic table is so curiously important.
è scritto così chiaro e scorrevole che ho capito perfino io e nei quaranta minuti successivi alla fine della lettura mi sono sentita marie curie.
Read this book. Read it twice.
Poi capitano questi libri che sono meglio di qualsiasi fiction, perché la tecnica asettica che ti insegnano non dà merito a tutto quello che succede intorno alla ricerca scientifica, fatta dagli umani con tutti i loro pregi, ma anche tanti, tanti difetti: cocciutaggine, pregiudizi, invidie, ...Qui si parla degli elementi della tavola periodica, di come questa sia stata strutturata nel tempo scoprendo via via gli elementi presenti in natura, a quelli che lo sono solo per qualche secondo, fino a quelli sintetici, visti in laboratorio o ipotizzati al numero atomico 138.
Da ricordare il tributo a Primo Levi con "Il sistema periodico".Lettura che completa le cognizioni scolastiche perché, come dice l'autore, "La Scienza è la Storia della Scienza".
(I also blame Dr. Who for this, but that's a longer story.) But it was a long road, and not surprisingly along the way I lost my enthusiasm for reading books about science topics in my spare time.
Like taking my work home with me.I thought a book filled with strange anecdotes related to the Periodic Table sounded like a terrific idea for folks that would be interested in such things.
I figured I didn't need to read a book about the table because I already knew how it worked.
While I enjoyed it (and learned a lot of history of science trivia I'd been unaware of, what with my head stuck in the 18th century) and had a few "a-ha" moments as some organic chemistry concepts FINALLY made sense to me (14 years after my last ochem class), I have two big problems with the book.
Instead, in endnotes, there are more folksy stories (that require flipping to the back of the book to read, and which were usually only tangential and not particularly interesting footnotes to the main story, meaning the flow was disrupted for no good reason).
I'm going to start out saying that Lisa wrote a great review of this book.
It makes chemistry and physics comprehensible and fun.
I listened to it in audio and thought the narrator did a fantastic job with it.
However, I think I ended up missing a lot by listening rather than reading.
The book is so packed full of fun facts and numbers and, of course, references to the periodic table.
Plus, my attention would wander and I would completely lose track of what was being discussed.I think I'm going to get a copy of this when it comes out in paperback.
The Disappearing Spoon is not quite as entertaining to me as Sam Kean’s book on neuroscience, but it’s still reasonably fun and definitely an easy read.
He writes with humour and enthusiasm, pulling out interesting characters and discoveries from the history of the Periodic Table and its elements.I’m just not as into chemistry/physics as I am biology.
Even organic chemistry.
So I found that this dragged a bit — for me.
It’d probably be unfair to assume it’d drag for you as well, if you’re actually a fan of chemistry.Originally reviewed on my blog.
A book filled with many interesting trivia. One of which is the alpha variability. So the story went that the alpha value must be an exact x or heavier elements won't be able to bond and create our wonderful universe. Now, there's a suggestion that that value was different in the past. That brings a sobering thought. If there's only a tiny window of opportunity for life to emerge (since in the future the alpha value would have changed again and not be hospitable to life creation), we may really indeed be the only intelligent life in the whole universe.
A fun read.For a further review: http://susannag.booklikes.com/post/43... .
The subtitle of this book is: and Other True Tales of Madness, Love and the History of the World from the Periodic Table of the Elements.
It feels like this knowledge is so essential to human life, that these things he is talking about are, literally, at the root of what we're all made of and Kean is just able to share that information in an interesting and not-your-stuffy-old-professor style.Yes, there is a lot of science in there, but don't be scared though.
