https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1988609.The_Saint_In_New_York
In a few weeks time my family & I will be on holiday in New York, so what better way to get in the mood than by reading one of my favourite novels featuring the famous Simon Templar.This may be the fourth (or fifth ?) time I've read this book & it's as enjoyable as ever. Charteris wrote this way back in the 1930s, but it's as fresh & exhilarating as anything written today. The Saint takes on numerous gangsters in New York City & dispatches them with a smooth mixture of gunplay &a
In a few weeks time my family & I will be on holiday in New York, so what better way to get in the mood than by reading one of my favourite novels featuring the famous Simon Templar.This may be the fourth (or fifth ?) time I've read this book & it's as enjoyable as ever.
If you're a fan of The Saint then this is a must read, & any new readers who enjoy the book will delight at the final uplifting message that has appeared in the stories of Leslie Charteris for many years....WATCH FOR THE SIGN OF THE SAINT.
Απλοικό γράψιμο ή κακή μετάφραση. Σε κάθε περίπτωση διαβάζεται πολύ ευχάριστα, η ιστορία είναι αφελής, ο ήρωας, ο Άγιος, είναι το ανίκητο παλικάρι που καταφέρνει τα πάντα, υπάρχει ο από μηχανής Θεός της ερωτευμένης γυναίκας που θα τον σώσει την κατάλληλη στιγμή, υπάρχει ο μεγάλος κακός που είναι προφανής εξ αρχἤς ή σχεδόν εξ αρχής. Παρόλα αυτά, έχει μια αθωότητα, την αθωότητα της εποχής που γράφτηκε, όταν η Αμερική και όλος ο κόσμος ήταν πολύ πιο απλός, χωρίς κινητά τηλέφωνα, χωρίς ίντερνετ. Εδώ μιλάνε μόνο τα πιστόλια! Και ο άκρατος ηρωισμός.
My first "The Saint" book. I loved watching series "The Saint" staring Roger Moore in my childhood. It aired on PTV.
This is Charteris' masterpiece. The Saint emerges in full while retaining the devil-may-care reckless charm that is his signature as surely as his stick figure drawing.
Originally published on my blog here in July 2000.This novel, the first Saint story to be conceived as a novel rather than expanded to that length from work which had already appeared in magazines, established Leslie Charteris as an international bestseller.
This is a new Saint, rather more in the line of an American thriller character than he was originally, though still maintaining a trademark line of banter perplexing to his opponents.The three days covered in the novel's plot do require a particularly tough Simon Templar, as he takes on New York's organised crime single handed.
The Saint was the most popular character in British thrillers before James Bond.
Unlike Bond, The Saint (Simon Templar)has no "license to kill," but he does so while following his own "code." Charteris, who began writing about him in the 1920's, does not equivocate about Templar being a criminal.
And there was the loaded automatic in his pocket, and the ivory-hilted throwing-knife strapped to his hand in cast the gods should overdo their generosity..."I was not a fan of The Saint, and this is the first of Charteris' books that I have read.
The process seems to be Charteris' thing as Templar searches for The Big Fellow.
Simon Templar, the Saint, Invades the Big AppleThis novel of the Saint is a period piece, harkening back to the days of the corrupt Tammany Hall where judges and politicians were bribed and paved the way of gangsters.
Enter the cool and calm Simon Templar in a case of murder, battle, and sudden death and he is the newest celebrity to down and out.The price for this job is impressive.
What could be simpler?I was warned this novel would be a turning point in the Saint's life.
Watch out, world, Simon Templar is on the loose and enjoying life to it's fullest, thank you very much!
ANd it is a nice take upon the sole adventurer who is up against the whole of New Yorks gangsterdom.The Saint gets asked to help out in order to break the back of organised crime in a pre-WOII New York.
In the end the Saint meets the Big Boss and leaves the big Apple having singlehandedly decimated a crime-organisation.This is a somewhat dated but fun adventure of a darker Saint than before and after.
This is perhaps as close at the EON folks got to Charteris' hero while creating their moviehero 007.A fun book that I have read often and undoubtely will do so again.
The first SAINT book I read and a huge improvement over those written earlier.
Charteris was not a BLACK MASK writer, but mastered that very readable style early.
By the time he wrote THE SAINT IN NEW YORK, he still had his pulpy style but had reduced the number of fabulous reminders to a bearable level, and his plotting had improved.
I won’t kid anyone and claim this is actually a good book, but there is a LOT of fun to be had in the reading.
It also makes interesting study for writers and would-be writers as to what Charteris did to make the book so readable.
From 1933, a harder edged Saint than the later books, Simon Templar is in New York earning $1,000,000 by tracking down and killing underworld figures that killed his employer's son a few years before.Along the way, he rescues a six year old girl kidnapped because her millionaire father had refused to pay protection, prevents her from being killed, and tracks down the "big Guy" behind it all.
This is the book that put Leslie Charteris on the map and made best-sellers of all the previous Saint books in retrospect.Set shortly after the repeal of Prohibition, this tale of revenge is one of the grimmest, and the certainly the most violent, of all the Saint stories, so that when it was filmed, it was considerably toned down (and all hint of corruption in the New York judiciary removed, of course).Nevertheless, most Saint fans, including myself, seem to regard it as one of the best.
The characters are drawn with great verve, especially Inspector John Fernack, the various members of the gangland hierarchy, and the mysterious Fay Edwards, who falls in love with Simon at the same time as she is helping him to kill just about everyone she knows.Above all, Charteris shows himself once again a first-rate story-teller.
You know she's going to corrupt him, and although it takes her about six chapters to do it, you relish every word, every web of deceit she spins.
You do want to know how he's going to pull it off, but you'd rather that Leslie Charteris cut to the end of the chase.
Of the crime novelists of that era, I'd still give the nod to Earl Derr Biggers, who is way underrated, and Charlie Chan.
Interestingly enough, Derr Biggers was a Caucasian writing about a Chinese protagonist, and Charteris was half-Chinese writing about a Caucasian protagonist.
A really well written and fast paced Saint book. Everything happened in three days. I also like that in this Saint series, at the end of each book is a section called "About the Author". It gave a very good history of Leslie Charteris and how the Saint series came about and how it progressed into different medias and ultimately became an industry of its own.
The Saint is a pretty durable character, in every sense of the phrase. This book feels like a slice of history where organized crime in New York City controls the city and most of the government. Oh, wait... Maybe not so 'historical' after all.
Surprisingly violent for a book of this era. Nonetheless I enjoy the Saint character and would read another book in this series.
I read quite a few of the Saint books when I was a teenager.
I found this one in a used bookstore a while back and decided to read it.
Certainly, my tastes have changed since my teenage years and I don't plan to read any more of this series.
These books were written in the thirties and I remember many of the very old fashion things that were still around when I read them originally but have long since gone away.
Thinking about but not necessarily wanting to go back to the old days.
The series began in tne 1930’s, encompasses dozens of books and is represented at pretty much any reputable used book store.The Saint is the nom de guerre is Simon Templar, a lone wolf adventurer who works whicher side of the law seems best at any particular moment, depending upon whatever aims he is pursuing.
Pick up a book, forget politics and work and chores for a while, and let the Saint show you how the Ungodly should be confronted.
The novella-length stories in Enter the Saint are better than this novel, which tends to ramble a bit in places. Or maybe stream of consciousness was popular in all genres of this time?
The plot has Simon Templar befriending a wealthy American, William Valcross, whose son was murdered.
He cleans up the graft by eliminating men from the Mafioso’s hierarchy, meticulously working his way to the top to find out the identity of the “The Big Fellow” who is controlling the metropolitan.
“The Saint was a law of his own in those days, and that little drawing stood for battle and sudden death and all manner of mayhem.
And since we’re out on this picnic, I’d like things to be the same—even if it’s only for a little while.”If I had one complaint, it would be that Charteris seemed to pad the story a bit much with repetitive situations and passages.
Thoroughly Entertaining Saint Story.
The Saint books always offer breezy wit and charm - this is no exception.
There is also a certain element of grit here too though: a police detective offers a justification for brutality in a corrupt system.
When first published it must have had an element of reportage of real world events about it as well as the wish fulfillment that one man might, with a little luck, clear up the whole mess.
Little wonder it was a great hit with the public both sides of the Atlantic.This is good quality, easy to read, superior entertainment.
I think this is the best of the Saint books. The Saint is a modern day Robin Hood type character who steals from crooks, rights wrongs and saves endangered maidens (mostly for himself). They are humorous and exciting at the same time. The best Saint books were all written prior to WWII. I read a lot of them in my teenage years before I discovered James Bond. None of the films or TV programmes ever did the books justice.The author, Leslie Charteris was half English and half Chinese and his early life was almost as adventurous as his hero’s.
This was my second outing with The Saint, and I'm very fast getting another series to read. This is great writing, and despite the fact it is set and written in the 1930s, wouldn't look too far out of place today. I got thoroughly swept up in the plot, and didn't even have the chance of guessing ahead - for all the good it would have done. Throw yourself into a Leslie Charteris book - you won't be disappointed.
I recently ordered this book after seeing it read by the character Shosanna Dreyfus in Quentin Tarantino's Inglorious Basterds. The copy I have has a different cover than the one shown in the movie. The book was originally published in 1935, my copy is a 1944 edition. The back cover of my copy states: "Because the New Avon Books are easy to open, light to hold, thrilling to read, and compact to carry or store in clothing or bags, they are ideal as gifts to the Armed Forces".
Not so good as other books that include three novellas or several short stories... this is a very straightforward adventure: the Saint wants to get some gangsters, and he's caught, he escapes, he gets his man, he goes on to the next... each and every time!
This was my very first Saint book. Very good story and character in that old school way from the 1930's. I find The Saint to be almost a English super hero out to rid the world of crime and evil his way. I think I will read the very first Saint book and learn the history of Simon Templar.
read 06.17.84read 10.18.84
Forgot how much I enjoy the story lines of the Saint! So glad I picked it up again by chance
This series was my grampa's favorite. Found a few copies in basement at his cottage. I've loved this series ever since.
read SOMETIME in 2000
Worth more than a look. No swearing, no 'scenes', historical relevance about the problems of graft and corruption...and how to clean it up.
