https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18130.A_Wind_in_the_Door
Madeleine L'Engle is probably one of the reasons why I think magic and faith and science are ultimately compatible.
If 'A Wrinkle in Time' is hot cocoa, then this book was Ghiredelli's Peppermint Hot Cocoa with marshmallows and $100.
It joins the same crew; Meg, Charles Wallace, and Calvin, and throws in some new adventurers including dragons.
Now, any book that starts off with dragons, is probably going to be a winner in my book.
But this time, they are not rescuing their father, or the universe itself (although that could be suggested in a round-about way), but they are trying to save cute Charles Wallace, my fav.
Can I just say, Progo, I love you and Meg, way to make nothing into something.
This is the second book about Meg, Charles Wallace, their family and Calvin, their friend.
So, too, are the smallest parts of us (like, for example, mitochondria) still a part of us and we are their galaxy.But again, all is not well in this book.
Here, in the form of a quite weird angel (cherubim) and a teacher.Thus, Meg and Calvin have to travel and pass certain tests and even travel into within Meg's little brother.Like I said, the idea (though not new) is done quite well.
for me, one of those things is the scene in this book with progo, and the discussion he has with meg about the importance of naming.
like many of l'engle's books, the theological element is present without being completely clear - this was, in a sense, i think her attempt to answer the question of life after death, and also (as all her books question) how bad and good can exist together in a universe created by a loving god.
jenkins scene is pretty memorable as well, plus the idea of the little farandola in the mitochondria - her images are so clear and creative, such a wonderful blend of fact and fiction.
But there are many more scenes of purported seriousness which aren't handled well at all.
Is there seriously a point where, to illustrate the value of love as a weapon against the bad guys, Calvin suddenly remembers some experiment he did on plants as a nine-year-old where he spoke lovingly to one plant and it grew better than the rest?
Its predecessor was a lovely book and its successors are a bit better, but I found this book to be unbelievably disappointing.
I feel like this book is too often asked to be another Wrinkle in Time, when in fact its sparse cast of characters and relatively uneventful narrative seem like L'Engle's deliberate effort to make it the opposite.
A Wind the Door, however, is about recognizing the cosmos already inside the entity of the human being, and how our choices and sense of identity have an immeasurable effect on the song itself.
L'Engle makes the point that biologically, we are a galaxy unto ourselves, and she brings this point home by literally reducing her main cast of characters to a molecular level.
"Why do people always mistrust people who are different?" I think I may have enjoyed this more than Wrinkle. More science-based And of course, a dragon can never go wrong with a dragon tale Also it didn't have that strange, abrupt dad ending like Wrinkle.
While this one centers on the idea of good prevailing same as the first book did, I suppose it takes into account that the reader has grown a little since the release of the first book, and therefore comes across much darker than A wrinkle in time did (it's something we have observed with the story of Harry Potter as well).The thing I love best about the books of this series is how they treat children as..
DNF 105 pages inI remember reading this as a child and not liking it but couldn't remember why. I understand now, this book is boring AF.Follow me on ♥ Facebook ♥ Blog ♥ Instagram ♥ Twitter ♥
I think where L'Engle loses me is that she feels like she needs to explain everything - why not just leave it at - Charles is sick and we are going inside of him to fix what's wrong - see, I just said the same thing she did only she took half the book to say it.
If you attempt to explain everything than there's no imagination left to it.I am not saying there is no imagination to this book - there is - it's just not nearly on the level of her first.And, I'm not sure what L'Engle was trying to do with pushing the idea of conformity.
I disliked this book so much it almost made me unlike a wrinkle in time.
1-no segue the first wasnt mentioned at all, not that they had already had an adventure, how she met calvin nothing!!2-monotonous the author really wanted her point to get across and though this book is for children I dont think it was necessary to restate the same concepts 8 and 10 times at least!!3-plot simply weak.
where the first book was imaginative and interesting the first one limited and contrived.
Yawn. This book gave me anxiety attacks by imprisioning me in the same scene for 30+ chapters. Goes absolutely nowhere. I can't believe it's even related to A Wrinkle in Time. No wonder I'd never read it in school.
Sure, he has his own reason for being there but, ostensibly, he should know that it's after the Murry children's bedtime, so why is he coming over to their house when Meg and Charles Wallace are expected to be asleep?The next real issue is Blajeny.
Well, Jenkins joins their little team and we spend most of the rest of the book bouncing back and forth between him and Meg both going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on about how they can't do whatever it is they need to do.
I like this second best in this series, but the problem is why does Charles Wallace have to adapt to his school rather than the asshole who picked on him having to STOP PICKING ON A TINY 6 YEAR OLD BOY BECAUSE HE'S SMART?
What is wrong with society that being smart is bad, but bullying is considered normal and something you just have to deal with.Bull!
It shouldn't just be something to deal with.
We should let people know that bullying is terrible and they need to stop doing it.Other than that, this book is very good and when you talk to a plant, it actually does grow bigger and healthier.
Well... if there's one thing I can say about Madeline L'Engle's books is that they're... not normal. Definitely and completely weird. But still really cool.At some points, I thought it was way too weird... but I couldn't put it down!!! PROGO!!!!!!!!! *cries* Whyyyy!!!! And also, Louise the Larger is so cool. Go snakes! (Can't believe I just said that.)AND I CANNOT FIND MY COPY OF THE FIRST BOOK. SOMEONE PLEASE HELP ME, I'M LOSING MY MIND.(A couple of hours later: Found it. Duh, I put it in my series section...)
I finished this book with 30 seconds to spare before the end of tbr takedown. 3.5 stars. I really liked this one more than book 1. I think this one was just more exciting and I cared about the characters a bit more. My only issue honestly is that this can't be a children's book. I BARELY understood what I read, so how can a child understand? Still unsure about continuing on the series. But it was better.
preachy.Still, it had wonderful, lovable, quirky characters, gorgeously surreal settings, and a pure grey chill at its core that made the stakes feel constantly high.Hoping for more of the good, I decided to continue the series.I wish I hadn't.The preachiness is out in full force: A Wind in the Door is less an actual story with characters, setting and/or plot, and more a droning parable, a barely-coated allegory that feels more like listening to a sermon than anything else.
Meg's impatience and doubt has grown from annoying but understandable character trait-in-development to unbearable whine, and the balancing forces of Calvin and Charles Wallace were almost completely absent.
Not so with the Wrinkle in Time series (though at least that first book has had some adaptation attempts, and another on the way next year).
I like that.It was true of A Wrinkle in Time, and it's even more true of A Wind in the Door, whose climactic confrontation takes place at a microcosmic level, and the "action" is happening, in a way, just in the minds of the characters themselves.
Whatever the case, this is a tradition of fantasy novels that I love when it's done well; and I believe it is in this book.There are problems with A Wind in the Door, the strangest of which is trying to figure out when this story is supposed to take place.
Meg traveled all over the cosmos with her whiz-kid little brother Charles Wallace Murry, thanks to magical beings and the fifth dimension, for God’s sake — but she draws the line at dragons?
Yes, big man on campus Calvin O’Keefe joins Meg, as in A Wrinkle in Time — but so does former principal of Meg’s high school, the ineffectual, inflexible Mr. Jenkins.
The ensuing quest proves as annoying as Meg’s unrealistic resistance to the magic that surrounds Charles Wallace — despite including a feathered cherubim straight out of the Book of Ezekiel, a sentient snake, and an assortment of other supernatural creatures.
L'Engle project - February book.Meg & Calvin confront the opposite of something, which is nothing, with the help of Charles Wallace's imagined dragon, which is actually a cherubim, and the elementary school principal. Like Alice, tumbling down the rabbit hole, space and time, large and small, have little meaning when cosmic evil can act at a cellular level.This book is weird as hell, extraordinarily original, and deeply touching. Read on, bright and dangerous object.
I had very low expectations because A Wrinkle in Time is one of my favorite books and I couldn't imagine how the next in the series could possible live up to the first, but this was great! Thought-provoking with so many profound, highlightable lines. I know now that this will be one of my favorite book series!
I adore and loved A Wrinkle in Time when I read it, and I was expecting something as wonderful and beautiful as that.Although this book is good, and is thoughtful, it lacked more of the relationships that I loved in the first book in the Time Series.
There was also hardly any Charles Wallace, which left me a sense of a missing piece after I finished the book.Another thing that I found annoying was how long the paragraphs were, and how sometimes I just felt like skimming the whole page for anything that seemed interesting, because the rest of it was just reiteration of things previously stated.
I read this in two days.
The read brought me back to such childlike wonder and delight.
I remember why I used to live by the philosophy, "Why read a book if it's realistic.
If I want realistic I'll stay in this boring world." I found the book a thrill ride and full of excitement and felt childlike awe throughout.I'll be reading it again, and plan to read the other three in the series, as well as her other books.
Highly recommended for fantasy lovers and those who love a break from the boring parameters of realism and the laws of reality.

Life's too short to read bad books!http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...When I was a kid, Madeleine L’Engle’s A Wrinkle in Time blew my mind.
For there is an epic battle between the forces of good and evil and little Charles Wallace is a key player.A Wind in the Door is a children’s story, but it’s full of the same kind of mind-expanding science fiction ideas and mature philosophical themes that I experienced when I first read A Wrinkle in Time.
(L’Engle was a Christian.) The struggle going on in the cells of Charles Wallace’s body is a metaphor for the greater struggle between good and evil.
This was not my type of story. That doesn't mean others won't like it. I can say I'm done with this series.
I'm so glad I'm rereading this series. So good. Also, when I get my little furry friend in the (hopefully near) future, I will be naming them Proginoskes.
I tried really, really hard to like this book but I just...didn't?
First of all, even though it takes place just a year after A Wrinkle in Time, it didn't acknowledge the first book at all.
In fact, it contradicted it!
It was like the same characters but an utterly separate story.
That was just bizarre.
Secondly, there was no plot...
The whole thing was just complicated, philosophical bits of dialogue after the next.
The first half wasn't so bad, I rather enjoyed it.
But literally the ENTIRE second half was one loooong, weird conversation.
An interesting conversation, but still.
And when Meg's mother diagnoses Charles with a rare new disease called mitochondritis, everything is going to be turned inside out...literally.Once again Meg will have to step into the realm of the utterly fantastic, because help soon arrives for her brother's sickness.
I adored this book; in some ways I loved it more than "A Wrinkle in Time." The characters get more fleshed out, the relationships between Meg and the others are brilliant, and the metaphysical concepts introduced about life, mind, and spirit are beautiful and wonderful, especially kything.
A book I read again and again to get new things out of it each time.
Upon re-reading this book I find it pretty amazing that traveling through space and time can put the crew onto another planet in another galaxy; can put them onto a planet that is completely hypothetical and based on nice visual thoughts and compounded into another space; can put them INSIDE of Charles Wallace's mitochondrion, Yadah (yeah, it's named), where the farondolae (little ultra-microscopic organisms inside the mitochondria) are getting out of control and destroying their 'world'.
To the farondolae, Charles Wallace is their universe, and his heart beats every 10 years in their time.
