https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/103431.Civilization_and_Capitalism_15th_18th_Century_Vol_1
The book is crammed with place names and technical vocabulary from weaving, joining, planing, sailing, ploughing, leaching, waxing, glazing, coining, minting, metallurgy, etc.
I read this paragraph while observing the following facts this week: that a society that can spend $250 million making the special effects for a movie can't pay its teachers, train its students properly, or fix its bridges...; that a society that can underwrite (with tax-payer subsidies/backstops/etc.) $145 billion of end-of-year bonuses to otherwise teetering banks, can't find $6 billion to bail out its largest economy (California) -- that such a society is, in Braudelian terms, showing signs of senility and decay...
Asserting a distinction between the Material Economy and the Market Economy, Braudel attempts to delineate the former as constituted in the daily rituals and practices of humans in their disparate environments.
The study displayed isn't an evolution but rather a series of processes, inspirations and missteps.
But eachproverbial page isn't tured until "it is time." Overcrowding and offshore resources kept pressure on the metaphorical envelope.
China appears to have held all the cards at one time.
Braudel appears a bit cheeky with his notes on revolutions: in this case, artillery, moveable type and oceanic navigation.
This is probably one of the most fun books of economic history I've ever read.
A newer word which I enjoy hearing is 'world-building', or the process by which a writer establishes the setting and background of their stories.
Braudel delves into the history and development of food and drink, diseases, of houses, of all the details of life in Europe (well, mostly Europe) in the era from 1500-1800, and that long transformation of the global economy.I suspect that a major audience for this book is not only the economic or social historian, but also the historical novelist who craves the most accurate detail.
This is how the structures and flows and mapping of another world, another time are analysed.
You'll find yourself immersed in the structures of the world and how the pieces fit together and how the rhythms of change work.Braudel and his followers re-cast how history was written--- they made it an imperial science, annexing sociology and geography and economics and medicine and geology and agronomy all into service of analysing the long-term rhythms and structures that go on beneath events.
And watch a master build up a world and a time from all the half-seen pieces.
Fernand Braudel is one of the few authors out there who writes books that people call terribly boring and hugely interesting for exactly the same reason: his approach to history is a amass a huge pile of details and then let them breathe.
I'd imagine that for the vast majority of readers out there, there are going to be a couple chapters in here that you think are awesome, and a couple where you wonder why he feels the need to be so all-inclusive about details that don't immediately seem to be all that pertinent.I remember reading once that the best way to read a Braudel book is to pick it up at random, and read little pieces here and there.
The chapter on daily bread is compelling and worth the cover price of the book. An amazing recreation of the early modern period.The series continues with The Structures of Everyday Life and The Perspective of the World.
A few quotations and examples will give the idea.Perhaps only a blockhead reviewer would write "Life was uncertain in the past" and point to the evidence given here, but Braudel does make clear how widespread were starvation and disease:• "France… is reckoned to have experienced 10 general famines during the tenth century: 26 in the eleventh; 2 in the twelfth; 4 in the fourteenth; 7 in the fifteenth; 13 in the sixteenth; 11 in the seventeenth and 16 in the eighteenth." There were also, he adds, "hundreds and hundreds of local famines," such as eight in the southwest of France between 1628 and 1713.
Braudel's work is considered to be one of the seminal works in documenting the evolution of everyday life (throughout many centuries) and how it played into the bringing about the modern world.
Yes there has been more research since Braudel lived and was the primary leader of what is called the Annales School (style of historiography developed by French historians in the 20th century to stress long-term social history) and not all by French historians.
That's says something about Braudel and the ground that he broke.Perhaps I liked it because I have come to appreciate how the simplest things can have such a dramatic effect on our everyday existence.
Those who think about the apocalypse, and wonder if it will happen to us, should read this book and be reminded that great tragedies are the norm, rather than the exception for most of human history.I'm going to start a review of this book even though I'm not done with it, because I think I may not finish it.
It has illustrations, which are nice.For a writer, this is a good sort of book to read if one is writing about anything pre-industrial.
Because you read books that are informative but BORING.
What is up with the French since the end of World War II?
Books like this I judge by how many times I have stopped reading and thought about what was on the page I had just digested.
It happened frequently during this book.
Well written, and a deceptively easy read.What were some of the things this book left me pondering?Cities; why they exist; what they represent; how they are organized.China; the transfer of technology; social structure and the use of manpowerEnergy; how it transforms and what reliance on oil could mean.
ولكن الفخ على طريقة هيلر في كاتش-22 (إقرؤوا الرواية، رائعة وممتعة) هو: لتعرف ما يفترض أن تثق فيه وما لا يفترض، يجب أن تدخل الكتاب وأنت تعرف الكثير مسبقا حتى تستطيع التفريق والانتقاء!ولذا يحدث أمر غريب: كل كتاب قرأته تعاد قراءته في كل مرة تقرأ كتابا مرادفا له!
بل أنني أحيانا أميل لرأي متطرف يقول أنك لن تعرف القصة أبدا، ولكن هذا له نقاش فلسفي آخر.
عموما هذه الملحمة التاريخانية تحتاج حديثا أعمق وأكثر تمحيصا لما قام به بروديل في دراسة مظاهر الجغرافيا والاقتصاد والحياة اليومية التي أخرجت التاريخ من سياقاته السياسية إلى مفهوم أعمق وأوسع.
Braudel is still all over the place, but since he is really only setting the stage, it isn’t as important to try and pick up his overall theory.
Volume two is where he really lays out his argument for the separation of capitalism and the market and why certain places in Europe became economic power houses and others didn’t.**As in volume two, Braudel is at his best when he’s discussing Europe, and is out of his depth when he deals with the rest of the world.
https://m7raby.wordpress.com/2018/11/... فرناند بروديل هو أحد أشهر المؤرخين الفرنسيين خلال القرن العشرين بل وأحد أكبر المؤرخين الذين عرفهم العالم حتى اليوم. وهو أحد مؤسسي المدرسة الفرنسية الجديدة لكتابة التاريخ المعروفة باسم «مدرسة الحوليات» التي رأت النور في ثلاثينات القرن الماضي «العشرين». يقتصر كتاب الحضارة المادية والاقتصاد والرأسمالية من تأليف فرنان بردول على دراسة الحضارة من القرن الخامس عشر حتى القرن الثامن عشر، بـأجزائه الثلاثة. يعتبر كتاب موسوعي ومن أهم الكتب التي ظهرت في فرنسا في القرن
ومقولة أساسية أخرى أكّد عليها بروديل هي تأكيده على أن دور العوامل الاقتصادية والاجتماعية في صياغة تاريخ مجتمعاتها وفي صياغة «قواعد الحضارات».يتجزأ الكتاب إلى ثلاثة مجلدات، الأول بعنوان الحياة اليومية وبنياتها (الممكن والمستحيل) ثم يتحدث المجلد الثاني عن التبادل التجاري وعملياته ويأتي المجلد الثالث والأخير بعنوان العالم والزمان.
إن الحد الذي يمتد في كل عصر من العصور حتى في عصرنا الحالي نفسه بين الممكن والمستحيل بين ما يمكن بلوغه وبين ما استحال على البشر بلوغه لأن طعامهم لم يكن كافيا ولأن عددهم كان اما أقل أو أكثر مما ينبغي بالقياس إلى مواردهم ولأن عملهم لم يكن منتجا بدرجة كافية ولأن ترويض الطبيعة لم يكن قد بدأ إلا لتوه والملاحظ أن هذه الحدود لم تتغير مطلقا في الفترة بين القرن الخامس عشر والقرن الثامن عشر وأن البشر لم يفيدوا كل الإفادة من إمكاناتهم التي أتيحت لهم بل ساروا بخطى بطيئة وبليدة.
Not a bad book.
Too detailed for me though overall and I must admit that I had to skip it in places.
The book is about the way in which Europe predominantly segued into the 19th century and it covers the 15th – 18th centuries and all the fascinating things that happened.
It juxtaposes developments in Europe against what happened in the Islamic world, china and India most of the time.
It covered: populations around the world, development of food, the spread of technology and revolutions, money and the last section talks about towns and cities around the world.
This, the first volume of Braudel's magnum opus, is a wide-ranging world tour of everyday life and it's varied conditions in the pre-industrial world.
So much ink has been spilled on the Annales School of history that I feel that I have little to add on that, but Braudel is a pleasure to read, and doing so makes me wish that I had a better memory to keep track the endlessly fascinating facts and anecdotes that inhabit every page.
One should also note that reading such a long work is not the chore it might seem to be, as the books are lavishly illustrated and packed full of period paintings, maps and charts.
Incredibly broad and dense look at elements of daily life around the world, including housing, food, money, clothes, transportation, and more. Exhaustively researched, and very insightful. His points tend to get away from him though. It's less of a problem in the middle, but in the chapters on population and later on cities, he gets lost in his own argument and then just hares off on random points before dropping the entire line of inquiry. Also, weighted very heavily towards European history. But a fantastic overview with ambitious breadth.
Abandoned. A fascinating, if dense book, but I was concerned that I was filling my head with dated and wrong ideas and nothing to counter them. Unfortunately writing grand unifying accounts of history is out of vogue unless you're Jared Diamond... and probably for a reason.
This book, the first of three volumes, reset my level of expectations for history books when the English translation came out in 1979.
He doesn't get 5 stars because of the torturous prose (it must be nasty to read in French), but this is a simply brilliant book.
Longer review to come after I finish parts II and III. So far, though, I feel comfortable saying that this is one of the most eye-opening and awe-inspiring works of history I've ever read, one of the few that really impresses me with the sheer size of the past, while maintaining readable and pleasant prose throughout. Braudel is a master of giving details on details which slowly cohere into some kind of pattern, and then pulling back to give a smart, crisp conclusion which makes that pattern come completely into focus.
I’m very excited to read this book
Foundational text of the Annales school of historiography. Indispensable.
Essential: This is a book to read over and over. It is a reference text,showing the amazing connections and mutual learning processesgoing on in our world.
He even adds a comparative aspect as he includes civilizations outside of Europe such as China, the New World, and Islam.The book was fascinating, much more so than one would expect from a history book literally on the mundane.
But Braudel (and/or the English translator Sian Reynolds) writes prose engaging enough and convincing enough to draw the reader in to see just why the change in food types from 15th to 18 century France matters in the scheme of modernity.
The book does lag a bit sometimes, often in sections were Braudel unleashes a flurry of statistics about seemingly every city in France or other European country.
I bought it used in "Very Good" condition, and somewhere in the middle of the process of being shipped to me, it divided neatly into two big "blocks." This made reading the early chapters miserable: pages coming off in my hands, etc.
It is frustrating, however.Kings and battles are a distant afterthought--it was actually very jarring, in the end of the book, to read about St. Petersburg with only scant reference to Peter the Great, with focus much more on the kind of slab foundations you had to use to build a city on the swamps, and where such foundations had to come from, and what sorts of trade networks enabled this.
The Structure of Everyday life is the first installment of a trilogy that Braudel has penned on the rise of a Western capitalist regime of accumulation.
In this first volume, the focus is on the undercurrents of economic activity: populations, diseases, food, and activities like local production and bartering that make the structure of everyday life.
What is relevant are the material forces of history unfolding over long period of times that are measured in centuries, in other words acting in the "longue durée".
The insights accumulated from such an approach are incisive: the weight of numbers, the forces of disease, the power of geography all make their mark.
Epic in both vision and execution, Braudel's "Stuctures of Civiliisation" turns your accustomed way of thinking about history up side down.
In writing his history of the world from the 14th to 18th centuries, Braudel eschews the personalities and events that fill the pages of most history.
I don't think you can deny that the man is a little euro and franco centric (not that I have a problem with that, I don't.) Over all, this is a path breaking work, and should be on the book shelve for all fans of world history.
In the thirty three years since Mum made me promise to read the entire three-volume set if she bought it I have conjured a thousand reasons to wait.
In The Structures of Everyday Life, Braudel presents a densely quantified history of human experience around the world in the three hundred years before the Industrial Revolution.
For me, the filth of city life (by modern standards) and the cyclical catastrophes from plague and famine throughout the 15th to 18th centuries are reminders that, (1) humans can habituate to almost any circumstance, and (2) social, political, and material progress may not have reached their apex in the 21st century but nostalgia for the past is a profoundly misguided emotion...
For whatever reason, I tend to identify with the Sancho Panzas of the world, and in college I avoided all history (except for ancient) as essentially presenting a litany of kings (or emperors, or Popes, or Imams, or whatever ...
In Braudel at last, and rather late in life, I found the approach to history I did not know I had been looking for (though my love of immersive historical fiction should have given me a clue).Braudel is not for everybody in his exhaustive detail, and in his deliberate focus on the "humdrum," but he is definitely for me.
For reasons largely personal (perhaps due to my heritage), I prefer The Mediterranean and the Mediterranean World in the Age of Philip II.
This three-volume set should be required reading for anyone with a serious interest in the pre-industrial past.
I was interested while reading to gauge Braudel's economic theories--he more or less equates capitalism with big business and admits that market trade at least at the smaller level of everyday life was largely beneficial to the people.
It makes an interesting read in terms of the shifting definitions of capitalism current in the literature and reminds us that when different authors talk about capitalism that they are using the same term to refer to numerous different things.
