https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1123552.Trouble_Shooter
A good solid Western, with Hopalong as the scrubbed good guy from the TV series rather than the red-headed, foul-mouthed cowhand of the original books. And now that I know that, I'll try to find one of the original Hop-Along's (so named because he had a pronounced limp in those tales.)
I read Troubleshooter and The Riders of High Rock, both Hopalong Cassidy novels, a couple days apart, so I'll just review them together.
He wrote a slew of short stories and 28 novels about Hopalong, and Hollywood made 66 movies featuring the character.
L’Amour wrote four Hopalong books under the pen name Tex Burns, but denied that he had done so until his death.
Evidently he wrote them for the money (the publisher wanted to cash in on the fame of the character), and he bitterly regretted it and didn’t view the books as being truly his.
The fourth and final Hopalong Cassidy novel by Louis L’Amour is another good outing in the form of a traditional western.
As I’ve mentioned in previous reviews of this 4-book series, Louis L’Amour famously refused to admit ever authoring these four books.
Nevertheless, L’Amour honored his contract and produced these four novels.
I would love to have read some L’Amour-authored Hoppy novels in that rougher vein, but absent those, these novels are still pretty good westerns, written by a master from the days of pulp magazines.
I enjoyed its well written and good storyline 👍
#4 in the Hopalong Cassidy series by author Louis L'Amour, writing as Tex Burns.
Answering an urgent appeal for help from fellow cowpuncher Pete Melford, he rides in only to discover that his old friends has been murdered and the ranch Pete left to his niece, Cindy Blair, had vanished without a trace.
Colonel Justin Tradway, criminal kingpin of the town of Kachina, is the owner of the sprawling Box T ranch.
Hopalong signs on at the Box T to help get Tradway's wild cattle out of the brush.
This is the last Hopalong Cassidy novel by Louis L'Amour (aka Tex Burns).
It seems Mr. Melford had a ranch that was bequeathed to his daughter...
a ranch that has somehow disappeared.The main reason Mr. L'Amour hated (or maybe was just very disappointed and displeased) with the Hopalong Cassidy novels were that the publisher demanded changes that Louis disagreed with.
Another of my favorite western author's Zane Grey had similar experiences with Ripley Hitchcock.
Both of these authors were just starting out and they were having their ideas questioned by publishers.
Pleasant, clean and enjoyable tale of Hopalong Cassidy. Narrated Robert Petkoff. Text 1952 audio 2012.
I really enjoyed listening to this audio book on my commute to and from work. Louis L'Amour does an outstanding job with the Hopalong Cassidy character and this is one of those feel good westerns that got Hopalong Cassidy into TV. Amazing that Louis L'Amour denied being the author since he wrote it under the name of Tex Burns, but it is solid L'Amour.
Pete Medford, a friend of Hopalong Cassidy, is murdered and all documentation of Pete leaving his ranch to his niece disappears as well as the location of the lands. Hopalong confronts one of his most dangerous opponents,
All I can say is that I wish there were more. I'd like to hear about some of the other Bar 20 folk.
Always fun to read a good Louis L’Amour.
Hopalong Cassidy! White horse! What more can you say? Sneaky bad guy continues his wicked ways until....Great vivid descriptions of The West.
This is my First Louis LaMaour Book I Readed the Last 2. I Got the Big for Reading Western s Now. I I Like to Read More Western Writers.Does Anyone Recommend Any Writers? Thanks
But, they aren't much better than the usual--and who the hell is named Hopalong anyway?My dad loves all his books and I read over a hundred while staving off the night terrors when growing up.It is a strange fact about the old west, Indians, and the genocidal take over of the land now called the United States that fiction writing about them is often taken for truth (see Ward Churchill's Fantasies of the Master Race).
L'amour was a seller of fantasy, of lies, and of ideals that white men like to think they possess.
Ah, another great Bill "Hopalong" Cassidy story by Louis L'Amour.
I actually found this book better than the previous 3, in that there were a couple situations that were crazy tense, and my heart was beating fast while reading them.When I look back on this and previous Hopalong books, it's clear that Louis really wanted to get his name known as a great author, even if he was writing under the name of "Tex Burns".
That's probably my biggest complaint not only with this book, but all of the books Louis wrote over the years.Other than that, great read.
This is the first western I've ever read. All I knew about westerns was Louis L'Amour, and how ironic that at random I picked up one his four Hopalong Cassidy books. This gave me the opportunity to get introduced to two American legends simultaneously. Obviously he's a legendary author, but westerns aren't for me. I found the book really lacking in suspense. And I really would have enjoyed more vivid descriptions of the scenery and feeling more like I was there in the heat and the dust.
This was an excellent book.
It was fun, after having listened to a lot of L'Amour books recently, to listen to this book.
Not only was it possible to see the progression in his style, but it was fun to read what appears to have been early L'Amour.
I had heard the name "Hopalong Cassidy" for years, but never known the source.
In many ways, I enjoyed this book more than later novels.
I also appreciated the references to Kachina and Sipapu, Hopi words that have been used to identify two arches in Natural Bridges National Monument.
This may be one of my favorite L'Amour westerns.
Trouble Shooter is truly a great read. The 2nd and 3rd books in Louis L'Amour's Hopalong Cassidy series really left me disappointed. However, the bookends of this series are great reads. If you're not looking to read the entire series, go ahead and just add The Rustlers of West Fork and Trouble Shooter to your reading list.Also of note, Audible and other L'Amour references has the order of this series different than as seen on Goodreads.I read according to the other sources:1. The Rustlers of West Fork2. The Trail to Seven Pines3. The Riders of High Rock4. Trouble Shooter
I tried. I did! But I can't handle Louis L'Amour's writing style for another chapter. He uses a type of third person omniscient viewpoint that extends into the thoughts of anyone around, and can hop along into another character's head at any time. It comes off as an author's notes on a scene, not as a finished product.
I only gave it a 3 star rating because of the fact of what it is. Not because its a western, I love westerns but its meant to be a fast read. Classic L'Amour style, story formula not to bad. I would recommend it to other western fans or L'Amour lovers.
A nice story about the fictional Hopalong Cassidy written by the late Louis L'Amour. I found this to be a nice return to the western stories often told over the years. Just an enjoyable reading adventure.
This is the fifth and last book Louis L'Amour wrote as Tex Burns and is the last Hopalong Cassidy novel he wrote. It was one of the better ones (4 of 5 stars), but I'm really looking forward to reading L'Amour as L'Amour. His first one is "Hondo".
I actually thought this was the best of the three Hopalong Cassidy novels by L'Amour that I've read so far. It was fast paced and fairly short. I wouldn't rank it with L'Amour's original stuff but it was pretty good.
One of L'Amour's earliest stories - and one of the Hopalong Cassidy books. This isn't one of the master story-teller's polished yarns (of later years), but it reads well. L'Amour fans will enjoy it.
W L'Am
No surprises here. A western with gunfights, chases, cattle round ups, and plenty of dialogue peppered with "I reckon". This was a nice, short diversion.
I quite enjoyed this Western mystery. L'Amour's characters are always great, and this book was no exception.
L'amour is really very good at telling a western. Easy and fun!
L'Amour....another western.
