https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61663.Pale_Blue_Dot
The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark, Billions & Billions: Thoughts on Life and Death at the Brink of the Millennium, and finally, Pale Blue Dot: A Vision of the Human Future in Space.Pale Blue Dot was the first I read, and it was mindblowing for me at the time.
Upon discovering him, I realised that there is more to life than bad movies, football, and wasteful video games.I still remember reading him, or watching Cosmos, or watching a lecture of his on Youtube, and listening attentively; I would then go to my parents and sit there for an hour or more, lecturing them about what I just heard or read.
من تلك البقعة البعيدة الممتازة قد لا تبدو لكوكب الأرض أي أهمية خاصة ولكن بالنسبة لنا يختلف الأمر. انظر مرة أخرى إلى هذه النقطة. إنه هناك: الوطن. ها نحن. عليها يوجد كل من تحبه، كل من تعرفه، كل من سمعت عنه، كل إنسان كان موجودا في أي وقت. إن جميع أفراحنا ومعاناتنا، وآلاف الأديان والأيديولوچيات والمذاهب الاقتصادية الواثقة، كل قناص أو مغير، كل بطل أو جبان، كل مبدع أو مدمر للحضارة، كل ملك أو فلاح، كل شاب وفتاة متحابين، كل أم وكل أب، كل طفل واعد، كل سياسي فاسد، كل "نجم لامع" من نجوم الفن، كل "قائد أع
-----------------انظر لهذه الصورة جيداوطننا الذي لا نعرف سواهنحن هذه النقطة المشار إليها بالسهمها نحن ذا عبر الفضاءكل هذا التاريخالمزيف منه والواقعيحدث عند تلك النقطةنحن..هناهي صورة التقطها المسبار الفضائي فوياجر لكوكبنا البائس عام 1990‏وهي من أوحت لسيجن بهذا العنوان ‏وربما لا يوجد توضيح لحماقة تصورات الإنسان أفضل من هذه ‏الصورة المأخوذة عن بعد لعالمنا الصغير.
I recently came across several references to this book while reading the superb God Delusion. I was intrigued, and since it had been quite a while since I read Cosmos, I decided to give Carl Sagan another go.Besides his beautiful evocative descriptions of moons and worlds in our own Solar system, Sagan gave us a surplus of inspirational and cautionary passages in this work which--even as an adult--make you want to grow up to be an astronaut.
Sagan would have us do our best, despite our reluctance, to think of the earth, not as the stage of our petty dramas, but as it appears from the outside: a speck in space.This leads Sagan to his next general point: we are all in this together.
If the universe is indifferent to human life, it is surely indifferent to this year’s election results, to religious struggles, to racist conceits.
Sagan is very optimistic about the human future in space.
What will make the difference in the long run, says Sagan, is not technology per se, but technology combined with good judgment.
Cosmos dealt with astronomy and gave you a basic understanding of the entire "cosmos" in a way that you would understand.
In Pale Blue Dot, Sagan is speaking to those who love the Earth, love its relationship to the Cosmos, how it is all interconnected together and how the "pale blue dot" has to survive in order for the rest of the cosmos to survive.
This book is truly Carl Sagan at his very best and, if you are Sagan fan, I dare you to read it without hearing the words, "Billllions and Billlions of years ago...." in a way only he could do.
Inspirational.As Oscar Wilde once said: "we are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars".Carl Sagan is one of those thought leaders who direct our sights and aspirations to the best of what humankind can potentially achieve, and inspires us to find the courage to ask the deeper questions, and to nurture our willingness to embrace "what is true rather than what feels good".
I was impressed by how much I enjoyed this one.
I've not read any Sagan before, so I didn't know what to expect, but he's one of those brilliant scientists who understands how to clearly explain things to laypeople.
Appropriately balanced, however, Sagan's conclusions bring an optimism not often found in the writings of modern scientists focused on a global perspective.

Not only are they greenhouses gases, but they are also devastatingly effective in destroying the protective ozone layer.You look more closely at the center of the South American continent, which (as you know by now) is a vast rain forest.
The same thing is happening, you note, at the mouths of rivers all over the planet.But no topsoil means no agriculture.
The dominant organisms, whoever they are (who have gone to so much trouble to rework the surface) are simultaneously destroying their ozone layer and their forests, eroding their topsoil, and performing massive, uncontrolled experiments on the planet's climate.
Take Carl’s revered “Pale Blue Dot” speech, and multiply it by, say, the power of ten. That’s Pale Blue Dot. And the fact that it’s only by the power of ten... well, that’s how great that speech is.
Pale Blue Dot refers to the Earth as photographed from the Voyager craft at a point beyond the orbit of Neptune.
Of course at that distance, the Earth is barely discernible - a very small, unremarkable, pale blue dot among a myriad of billions of other unremarkable points of light.
Yet all our history, civilization, and culture that we have ever known has occurred on that dot.Even though our ingrained geo-centric and ethno-centric biases cause us to become deflated and even depressed at the realization of the truth of our insignificance in the vast universe, this book is actually meant to inspire hope in all of us.
Of course, the style of writing matters, and this book is so well-written that will make your mind digesting its contents, gladly and with ease, most of the time anyway.Are you interested in understanding the location of Earth, in the sea of space and on the timeline of creation?
Do you want to know the possibilities of new realms, new lives, at different corners of the solar system?
Do you want to know how far we humans have gone, and how further we can even go?
THIS BOOK IS FOR YOU."There is a new world next door.
The title of the book, Pale Blue Dot, was taken from the instantly infamous Pale Blue Dot photograph taken by Voyager 1 in 1990. The back story to that image is worth describing before actually talking about the book itself.Here is the image,Can you see Earth? Can you see our tiny little Earth? Look harder. There, ‘suspended in a sunbeam,’ is a tiny pale blue dot.This is what Sagan had to say: From this distant vantage point, the Earth might not seem of any particular interest. But for us, it’s
The title of the book, Pale Blue Dot, was taken from the instantly infamous Pale Blue Dot photograph taken by Voyager 1 in 1990.
The back story to that image is worth describing before actually talking about the book itself.Here is the image,Can you see Earth?
Can you see our tiny little Earth?
There, ‘suspended in a sunbeam,’ is a tiny pale blue dot.This is what Sagan had to say:
From this distant vantage point, the Earth might not seem of any particular interest.
Consider again that dot.
That’s home.
That’s us.
That’s us.
A great book.
It's worth every page.
Pale Blue Dot was Carl's last book, written while he was battling cancer and published after his death.
Sagan was responsible for having NASA rotate a Voyager spacecraft (as it was leaving the solar system) and photograph the planets, including of course the Earth, which was appeared as a pale blue dot.
Pale Blue Dot is not Sagan's best book and if you haven't read Sagan I'd suggest you start with "Shadows of Forgotten Ancestors" or "Demon Haunted World," both of which are marvels.
The book was repetitive, full of purple prose, and overly sentimental about "science" in a way that reminded me of my parochial school days.
I had expected a good book explaining stuff about astronomy, science, whathaveyou, but it was mostly emotional pandering to atheists who think they're morally/intellectually superior to non-atheists.
There was a whole lot of nothing for a couple hundred pages that can be summarised with: "The world and universe is super great and I don't understand why religion is a thing." Which, like, congrats, I s'pose.
You could've just said it once instead of wanking over it for a million pages.
আকাশের তারা দেখা আমার খুব পরিয় একটা কাজ। আমার দেহের পরমাণুগুলো কোন তারায় তৈরি হয়েছে এটা চিনতা করতেই দারুণ লাগে। মহাকাশ নিয়ে ডকুমেনটারী, বই পেলেও ছাড়িনা। আর বইটা যদি কারল সযাগানের লেখা হয় তখন সেটা অনয লেভেলে চলে যায়। কারল সযাগান মনে করতেন মানবজাতিকে টিকে থাকতে হলে তারায় তারায় ছড়িয়ে যাওয়া ছাড়া কোনো উপায় নেই, মূলত সেটা নিয়েই এই বই। কারল সযাগান এমন একজন লেখক যার ননফিকশন বই যেকোন সেরা শবাসরুদধকর ফিকশনের মত টেনে ধরে রাখতে পারে, তবে ফিকশনের মত দরুত পড়ে ফেলা যায় না, একটা একটা লাইন অনেকষণ ধরে উপভোগ
আকাশের তারা দেখা আমার খুব প্রিয় একটা কাজ। আমার দেহের পরমাণুগুলো কোন তারায় তৈরি হয়েছে এটা চিন্তা করতেই দারুণ লাগে। মহাকাশ নিয়ে ডকুমেন্টারী, বই পেলেও ছাড়িনা। আর বইটা যদি কার্ল স্যাগানের লেখা হয় তখন সেটা অন্য লেভেলে চলে যায়। কার্ল স্যাগান মনে করতেন মানবজাতিকে টিকে থাকতে হলে তারায় তারায় ছড়িয়ে যাওয়া ছাড়া কোনো উপায় নেই, মূলত সেটা নিয়েই এই বই। কার্ল স্যাগান এমন একজন লেখক যার ননফিকশন বই যেকোন সেরা শ্বাসরুদ্ধকর ফিকশনের মত টেনে ধরে রাখতে পারে, তবে ফিকশনের মত দ্রুত পড়ে ফেলা যায় না, একটা একটা লাইন অনেক্ষণ ধরে উপভোগ করতে হয়।ভবিষ্যতের মানুষ কেমন হবে?
পৃথিবীতে এখনো মানুষ না খেয়ে মরে, সেই অবস্থায় মহাকাশ গবেষণায়, মঙ্গল গ্রহে মানুষ পাঠায় কোটি কোটি ডলার খরচ করা কি যৌক্তিক?
Very well-written book about the history of space travelling/exploration and its possible future.When I started reading it, I felt like I was reading poetry.
I am not a huge fan of the topic, but after reading this, I can't deny that is utterly interesting.The book is clearly out of date, but I like the undertone that it has.
It's also interesting how he questions the reasons for extraterrestrial exploration, are those reasons good enough that matter risking people's lives/institution's prestige/state money?
he offers really good reasons in favor of it, but I feel it's a question that is still up in the air.
رؤية عن الأرض و "أقرب" ما يحيط بها أي المجموعة الشمسية على الأخص..شرح،ألمّ بكل ما توصل إليه العلم بخصوص جاراتنا الكواكب وأقمارها،حتى تاريخ كتابة الكتاب.في حديث الكاتب عن مستقبلنا في الفضاء،كمكانٍ للسكنى،أو للسيطرة..آثر الحديث عن أخلاقياتنا على الأرض،، وكيف أنها أضرت بنا"كنوع" وأضرت بالأنواع الأخرى..
كل هذا الدعم لتدمير البشرية، وإبخاس الدولة فيما هو -قد- ينفع البشرية يوماً !~~~كمعلومة قصيرة//أغلب اختراعتنا اليوم،صُنعت من أجل أبحاث الفضاء أو الأبحاث العسكرية -كما يعلم الكثير منا- حتى أن اكتشاف اثر الكلوروفلوركربون على طبقة الأوزون،جاء عن طريق دراسات مناخ الكواكب الأخرى !!~~~على سبيل التهكم// هنالك معاهدة وُقعت في واشنطن،لا اذكر السنة، تمنع على أي دولة من دول الكرة الأرضية،أن تستعمر الفضاء باسمها..
Сейгън е посветил цяла глава на космическото насилие, което съпътства Слънчевата система от създаването й (пореден добър довод срещу креационизма) и на който неминуемо Земята ще се окаже жертва рано или късно.
Няма връщане назад към природата, няма отказ от технологиите – рано или късно голям астериод ще нацели планетата ни: само и единствено технологичното развитие и разселване по другите небесни тела може да осигури оцеляването на вида ни.
А това върви ръка за ръка с осъзнаване на човечеството, повишаване на образоваността му, на рационалността му, на умението да се мисли критично и основателно.Издателство "Изток-Запад"﻿http://knigolandia.info/book-review/b...
But it also made me realise the grandeur of the human race: how much we have accomplished, how much we still don't know, how far we're willing to go to find answers to scientific problems.
However, the positive to this lack of information is that it elucidated the fact that science is always growing; new phenomena are constantly being discovered so that books written almost 20 years ago are immediately out of date.
The aggregate of our joy and suffering, thousands of confident religions, ideologies, and economic doctrines, every hunter and forager, every hero and coward, every creator and destroyer of civilization, every king and peasant, every young couple in love, every mother and father, hopeful child, inventor and explorer, every teacher of morals, every corrupt politician, every "superstar," every "supreme leader," every saint and sinner in the history of our species lived there-on a mote of dust suspended in a sunbeam.The Earth is a very small stage in a vast cosmic arena.
I really do.There are no shortage of brilliant scientists out there, imaginative and innovative people who are dedicated to the advancement of science and the betterment of the human race.The difference between Sagan and the rest of them is that he was able to make it beautiful.
When he talked, you could feel his excitement, his joy at knowing that there was a wonderful universe out there, waiting for us to discover it.
resistance to science these days, a fear of the universe, and people are starting to backslide to irrationality.If there's someone out there like that, we need that person desperately right now.
While not an autobiography in the traditional sense, Pale Blue Dot is an account of Sagan's scientific life, boiled down to the essentials that gave his life purpose and the message that he wanted to send forth into humanity's future.As for content, Pale Blue Dot presents a relatively concise point in time.
But more importantly to Sagan, this information is what humanity knew when we collectively achieved the technological enlightenment needed to affect our own extinction.Sagan, the eternal scientist, also presents his hope for our future in true scientific fashion.
Pale Blue Dot: literally one of the best books I have read.
Having watched and thoroughly enjoyed the Cosmos series by Carl Sagan, I couldn’t wait to read his books (although, I did wait.
He talks about our ‘wandering’ ancestors, the times of Copernicus and Galileo when the geocentric theory was popular, the various advances humankind has made in technology and space science, and what the future is expected to hold for us.
Are we, as humans, capable of preserving this pale blue dot we call our home?
I greatly recommend the Pale Blue Dot: A Vision of the Human Future in Space.
বইটা পড়তে অনেকটা সময় লাগলো নানা বযসততায়। তবে তাড়িয়ে তাড়িয়ে পড়েছি, তাড়া দিইনি নিজেকে। সেগানের লেখা আমার আর দশটা জনপরিয় বিজঞান লেখকদের চেয়ে ভালো লাগে। তার কাবযিকতা অসাধারণ। এক তারা কমেছে বইটা শেষে একটু ঝুলে গেছে বলে।এই বইয়ের পরথমদিকের অধযায়গুলো চমৎকার। ইতমধযে আপনি যদি জযোতিরবিজঞান সমপরকে ভালো ধারণা না রাখেন এবং এই মহাবিশবে আপনার ছোট গণডিতে নিজেকে একটাকিছু মনে হয় তবে এই অধযায়গুলো আপনাকে আঘাতও করতে পারে। এবং, সেগান, ঠোঁটকাটা সেগান কোনোকিছুই ছাড়েনি, ছোটমানুষের ছোট ঈশবরকেও না।"In some respects, scienc
বইটা পড়তে অনেকটা সময় লাগলো নানা ব্যস্ততায়। তবে তাড়িয়ে তাড়িয়ে পড়েছি, তাড়া দিইনি নিজেকে। সেগানের লেখা আমার আর দশটা জনপ্রিয় বিজ্ঞান লেখকদের চেয়ে ভালো লাগে। তার কাব্যিকতা অসাধারণ। এক তারা কমেছে বইটা শেষে একটু ঝুলে গেছে বলে।এই বইয়ের প্রথমদিকের অধ্যায়গুলো চমৎকার। ইতমধ্যে আপনি যদি জ্যোতির্বিজ্ঞান সম্পর্কে ভালো ধারণা না রাখেন এবং এই মহাবিশ্বে আপনার ছোট গণ্ডিতে নিজেকে একটাকিছু মনে হয় তবে এই অধ্যায়গুলো আপনাকে আঘাতও করতে পারে। এবং, সেগান, ঠোঁটকাটা সেগান কোনোকিছুই ছাড়েনি, ছোটমানুষের ছোট ঈশ্বরকেও না।"In some respects, science has far surpassed religion in delivering awe.
How is it that hardly any major religion has looked at science and concluded, “This is better than we thought!
In this world, as of now we are the only living, thinking beings and we should really be happy with all that we have and all that surrounds us!Pale Blue Dot refers to the Earth in the great vastness of the Universe.
Think of how fucked up we will be, if we destroy this planet.You know when ever I feel sad or depressed, I always listen to him, watch those videos that are available on YouTube and for some reason after listening to him I feel good, there is certain hope that he instill in me and then I just feel wonderful.I love him and I'll always remember him, for he made a huge impact in my life.
- من الممتع والمفيد جداً قراءة الكتب مرة أخرى، كنت قد قرأت منذ عامين تقريباً كتاب" كوكب الأرض : نقطة زرقاء باهتة "لـ كارل ساجان، وعدت لقراءته مرة أخرى للمتعة أولاً، وثانياً لثبات وتذكر إدراك الحقيقة الكونية ... في المرة الأولى التي قرأته فيها حلمت بساجان وكان أفضل شىء حدث لي على الإطلاق في هذا العام، كان حلماً لكنني مؤمن تماماً بحقيقته ! فقد ذهبت برفقة العظيم كارل ساجان إلى رحلة لسطح القمر ومن ثم بناءً على طلبي ذهبنا إلى المشترى المُبهج المتألق وأقماره ، لم نستقل سفينة فضائية أو شىء من هذا القبي
فقد ذهبت برفقة العظيم كارل ساجان إلى رحلة لسطح القمر ومن ثم بناءً على طلبي ذهبنا إلى المشترى المُبهج المتألق وأقماره ، لم نستقل سفينة فضائية أو شىء من هذا القبيل، فقط كنت أمسك بيد ساجان ونطير!، لو لم يكن هناك سوى هذا الحدث في هذا العام لكفى، فقد كان حلماً جميلاً ...-	كارل ساجان هو فلكي أمريكي من أبرز المساهمين في تبسيط علوم الفلك والفيزياء الفلكيه وغيرها من العلوم الطبيعية.
The ideas are really captivating, it makes you wanna pack your bag and bought your space flight ticket and wander in the cosmic darkness.
It is really hard to put it down, I hope that my daughter will grow up fast, so she could read this book.The early chapter discussed about cosmic vastness and how insignificant our planet when we compare with the infinite darkness.
Sagan elaborate on how science take over religion on humans view of the space.
Sagan made it clear that space flight in the future is not a luxury but rather our mean of survival.
For Sagan, we have only two options in future, space flight or extinction.
"Despite all our limitations and fallibilities, we humans are capable of greatness."Carl Sagan Changed my life the way i used to think a few years ago.
"We who cannot even put our planetary home in order, riven with rivalries and hatred, are we to venture out into space?" At Some passages, i felt it's more than a book of knowledge.
It's a book of spirituality where realising our profound duties and connectedness helped me become a better being.
Came to know about Carl Sagan is the sweetest thing that had ever happened in my life till now.
Our remote descendants, safely arrayed on many worlds throughout the Solar System and beyond, will be unified by their common heritage, by their regard for their home planet, and by the knowledge that, whatever other life may be, the only humans in all the Universe come from Earth.” —Carl Sagan, Pale Blue Dot: A Vision of the Human Future in SpaceA very enjoyable and exciting read.
Actually, this is one of those books that I think everyone should read at least once.
