https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/522534.Geisha_a_Life
The book, Memoirs of a Geisha by Arthur Golden was based around interviews with Mineko Iwasaki.
The book details her life as a geisha from childhood up until her retirement a few years ago, in her 40s.
In the West, at least, 'geisha' has always been thought of as a euphemism for a high-priced whore, but as the book shows, the women earn far more as geishas than they could ever hope to do on their backs.
The world of a geisha is one where women run things and make lots of money whilst all the time looking like the epitome of sweet, submissive feminity.
No fetishization, no male gaze, no bullshit.Iwasaki was a geisha (she refers to herself as a geiko, a more specific term used in the area of Kyoto where she lived and trained) starting in the 1960's, and was easily the most successful of her time - a feat which she accomplished by taking every single appointment available, not taking a single day off for five years, and sleeping three hours every night.
From then on, Iwasaki worked full-time training to be a geiko before making her debut at age fifteen.
This is Iwasaki's response to Memoirs of a Geisha which I both read and enjoyed.
For example, she tries to kill herself as a young girl, and the description plus the emotional turmoil she was feeling took up all of three sentences.
Iwasaki tried to make this part memoir and part history, and she ended up with poor excuses for either.There was also something a little off with the description.
Here's a passage: "The shamisen is a three-stringed instrument that is played like a viola." I play shamisen.
I have no idea where this description came from.But what really, really bugged me about this book is the author's ridiculous arrogance.
This woman wrote her book in a response to Memoirs of a Geisha because she felt that the book gave the wrong impression. Unfortunately for readers, this book is story after story about how great and important the author was / is. It doesn't represent life as a geisha, it represents life seeking fame.
A very enchanting story. Not finished yet but I will finish reading it later.
Golden created composite characters and different settings and scenarios so that the novel could read like fiction, thus honoring the protection-of-privacy deal he'd had with the real-life geisha.
Besides talking about her long-term relationship with a married man and some meetings with royalty, she doesn't really go into a lot about the entertaining.After reading Arthur Golden's well-written, Memoirs of a Geisha, and feeling some sympathy for the orphan girl forced into that life, reading this true story was a bit difficult, since the real geisha insists that it was her choice, at five years old, to leave her parents, that she could visit them at any time, and that she had the upper hand at her geisha house.
The author of that, Arthur Golden, interviewed Mineko Iwasaki and twisted her tales into falsities, making it seem that geisha were high class prostitutes.
In fact, Iwasaki was extremely upset when she realized Golden had twisted her facts on the life of being a geisha, and decided to write her factual and realistic account.
Her memoir reads as a beautiful balance between her personal recollections and facts on geisha (or the term used specifically in Kyoto, geiko) life in the 60s-70s.
I highly recommend this memoir for anyone interested in personal stories, the lives of geisha or how Japanese society functioned in the 1950s through 1970s.
"I believed that self-discipline was the key to beauty."Mineko Iwasaki successfully sued Arthur Golden for modelling his novel Memoirs of a Geisha on her life.
This memoir gets three stars solely due to how fascinating it is to see what it takes to become the most successful Geiko* of a generation.**Geisha of Gion is far from a perfect read.
4) Mineko Iwasaki is easy to dislike.
5) Iwasaki always happens to be the best at everything and will tell you so herself.
To what end?Mineko Iwasaki is a formidable woman and her achievements are extraordinary.
I love the detail she gives on traditions of a geiko as well as the intricacies associated with each year and season and the symbolism and immense cost of each important occasion and dress of a geisha's career.
This book is drastically different from memoirs of a Geisha and makes you wonder how both of these stories are about the same thing.
This is definitely not a re-read of Memoirs of a Geisha and stands on its own If you are interested in learning more about geisha, and as known in Kyoto as geiko, I highly recommend giving this book a read.
I would love to have read more about how Mineko challenged the system (like she claims she did, but never says exactly how) instead of about how amazing she was and that everybody loved her and that these the way Arthur Golden portrayed geisha in Memoirs of a Geisha is WRONG.
One of my favourite books ever! Mineko's story is so fascinating, filled with tragedy, love and intrigue. Also great introduction to Japanese culture.
I'd vaguely remembered hearing/reading something (maybe on NPR or 50bookchallenge posts) about Mineko Iwasaki, the prime source & inspiration for Arthur Golden's Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel, being disappointed with the portrayal of the geisha life in that novel, and therefore, she had written her own memoirs.
It was interesting to read these two books back to back - seeing what small incidences in Iwasaki's life Golden chose to modify into major plot elements, and vice versa.
For example, Golden chose to move his story back one generation (Iwasaki was born in 1949), probably in order to add WWII as a dramatic plot point.
The attribution of a certain ritual of the oiran (courtesans) to the geishas was probably what made Iwasaki upset.
I liked the insight to traditional Japanese culture, something I've been interested in since my youth.
The misconceptions about geiko are long lived and sad.
It's also sad that their very own culture feeds the misconceptions with similarities between the geiko and oiran "ceremonies".
I think the geiko (geisha) life is very interesting and beautiful.
Mineko's story showed me that even back in the "good old days" there were still people who did not take their jobs seriously.
That they didn't value their heritage and the traditions of their jobs and cultures.
Mineko herself as a child is what we in the West would call a precocious little brat, but is more of a misinterpretation of the class system.Two things that were negatives for me though were the fact that either Iwasaki or Brown had never seen a Shamisen and/or a Viola.
The text states that a Shamisen is played like a Viola....
that I would like to see.The second thing was Mineko's assertion that she doesn't pass wind, or fart as we call it in these parts.
The autobiography of Mineko Iwasaki, the most famous geisha in Japan until her sudden retirement at the height of her career.
She simultaneously loves and criticizes the hierarchical social structure, restrictiveness, skill, artistry, and effort that contribute to a geisha's craft, particularly as interacts with gender and as it has failed to change with the times; her experience and opinions are fervent and complex.
But it's a compelling effort, and especially valuable in a world where Memoirs of a Geisha is such a problematic and popular text.
I have read a few books on Geisha's and always found them interesting so when I saw this recommended on a forum I ordered it.
What really came across was Mineko's self discipline and work ethic and on reflection of her career how important it was to dispel the myth of a what a Geisha actually does.
I enjoyed this book and read it in two large chunks and the photographs included really added to the images formed.
A book I would certainly recommend to anyone who has ever looked at the stunning pictures of these women and just wondered.
Ever since I read "Memoirs of a Geisha" I've wanted to read this one, as Arthur Golden mentions this book as being one of his inspirations. On my way to Italy I found it at the airport, and immediately bought it. It did not disappoint. Where MoaG takes place around World War 2, this one describes the life of a Geisha in the 60s and 70s. You get to read about how Mineko meets Prince Charles, Queen Elizabeth and several other celebrities that we 'know'. Fascinating book.
This was a pretty good book, but it was a little dry, probably due to the translation. Main point: Geisha are NOT prostitutes.
She acts like shes better than everyone around her and bosses people around from a young age.
She spends the entire book slamming the entire geisha system and is terribly offended that everyone doesn't change and do her things her way instead.
If you're reading this because this is the woman that memiors of a geisha is based off of I wouldn't bother, Very little of her life was directly used in the book and most that was has been changed around so you may not catch it anyway.
Mineko is nothing like Sayuri in any way.
For people who don't know about Japanese culture maybe geisha for them has 'negative' image.
Geisha don't sell their body.
They sell arts!And this book tells the very detail about Geisha and their life.Geisha really are the real artist!
They learn various traditional Japanese culture since they were very young.And being Geiko (Geisha) is not an easy thing.
They have to take so many lessons, performing those arts (dancing, singing, playing traditional music instruments, etc) while wearing heavy kimono.
This book is a MUST READ book for people who love Japanese culture.And I'm so proud of Japan because of those beautiful cultures!本当に素晴らしい本なんです！(((o(*ﾟ▽ﾟ*)o)))

Novela escrita como "respuesta" a Memorias de una geisha pues la protagonista no quedó contenta por como se reflejó el mundo de las geishas. Esta sin duda, es diferente, menos glamourosa y comercial pero seguramente mucho más fiel a la realidad. Lo que más me ha gustado ha sido todo lo que se explica sobre la cultura japonesa.
I enjoyed this peek into a fascinating culture. I read the fictional Memoirs of a Geisha by Golden first (which is based on Iwasaki's life) so was looking for some additional background reading when I found this autobiography. Definitely seemed much more like real life than the novel!
In the end, it all comes down to economics; she tells the reader just how extremely lucrative it was to be a geiko at the time she was practically Kyoto's poster-child.I did recognise the photographs of Mineko, and thought "I've seen those pictures somewhere before." It's kind of a "poor little rich girl" or teen rock-star story; yes, those kimonos (which weighed nearly half what she did!) and accesories are wildly expensive, but anyone who can buy not one but two "immense" apartments in exclusive areas of Kyoto before the age of 30 is not doing very badly.
Fiction is meant to entertain-- and that was a choice the author made, still based somewhat fact, as it is a true use of mizuage, even if it is not that of Geisha.
It's not fact.I personally think this is a good that people should read after reading Memoirs, but that they should also retain their love for the fiction book because it was written to entertain.
Mineko's book was written to inform, and the two can coexist.
I think if you have read Memiors of a Geisha this is a must read.
Mineko does a good job of telling about the life of a geiko (geisha) from her personal perspecive.
I appreciated getting the first hand account of it.My only complaint would be the way she laud out the time line.
I would have been able to follow along easier if it was told from a time line perspective rather than event perspective so to speak.
Overall, I really enjoyed this book and highly recommend it for anyone who is interested in geisha life or has read Memiors of a Geisha.
I love reading memoirs - I think they're one of the best parts of reading: learning from people you've never met, experiencing a part of the world you never would otherwise, wonder.
It was really a very fascinating account of a significant part of Japanese culture that developed and preserved itself for such a long time.I came to really like Iwasaki - she seemed honest about the blessings and shortcomings of life in Gion Kobu.
She loves the dance and the culture, but in the end, the rules surrounding behaviour and choice for geisha are too limiting, not to mention the institution's lack of forward thinking and willingness to change.
In this book you'll learn about some japanese costums, what the world of the geisha (or geiko, as in this book) is like and how it is organized.
Mineko Iwasaki might come off to some people as being on a high horse or arrogant or anything like that, but in truth she is a proud woman who doesn't hide the pride over her accomplishements.
If you like reading about women being in charge and about japanese culture and don't mind that it's a woman who's proud of herself telling the story, then this book is for you.
I enjoyed this book of Geiko life immensely.
The entire time I read this, I thought fondly of Liza Dalby's "Geisha", written about the same period.
While reading this book, I felt like I was walking beside her as she went to dance class and Ozashikis at night.
Her hard work throughout her life inspired my respect for her and the Geisha tradition even more than ever before.
I recommend this book for anyone interested in Japan, Geiko or Maiko.
This book was entertaining all the way through and I would gladly read it once more just for fun.
You should read this book if - You've read Memoirs of a Geisha, but now want something more. You're considering reading Memoirs of a Geisha, but didn't realise this was the true story. You wouldn't consider reading Memoirs of a Geisha, because of the twisted western stereotyping.
