https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/576060.Witchcraft_Today
The most ridiculous nonsense I've ever read.
Many people seem to believe that they "owe" Gardner something because he played a big role in making witchcraft in general "acceptable" (and even fancy) again - the problem with that is that the man has as much to do with witchcraft as a potato with a shovel.
His "interpretation" of history, what constitutes a religion, witchcraft (WITCHCRAFT IS NOT A RELIGION BUT A PRACTICE IN VARIOUS RELIGIONS!!!) or an unbroken line of practicing it is ridiculous, delusional...or...perhaps just willfully ignorant, I have no idea.
keep your eyes open when reading, many of it just makes no sense or is later contradicted by other claims.
I know that Gardner was an anthropologist who studied the "witch cult" as he calls it and then became involved on a more personal level.
Because of this, I'm reading with a grain of salt...(?) Basically, I've done some studying myself on the "origins" of witchcraft as it is today, and what most scientific authors say on the issue is that Gardner invented it based on his personal, non-objective interpretations of what he learned from his mysterios "sources" and historical texts.
It is nice to get the viewpoint of the person who heavily contributed to if not personally authored Paganism/Wicca as we know it.
It was trash.
Gardner, who is often called "The Grandfather of Wicca" explains the historical meaning of superstitions and myths surrounding witchcraft.
I was especially surprised when reading this to realize that Gardner himself was never the High Priest of a Wiccan coven.
I believe that since he's so famed for bringing knowledge of the occult and Wicca into the mainstream, I assumed he was a High Priest at some point in his life, but now I can't find any sources to back that up.
I also like his take on "magic" as what we now know as "science." Makes perfect sense!
This book is a simplified antrhopological study of the history of wicca and how it exists today.
However, the author becomes a member of some of the occult groups that he studies, and by becoming an initiate he compromises himself as an observer.
The reader is left with only a cursory understanding of wicca as a movement in society and an even less satisfying peek at the practice.
However, this book does contain a detailed bibliography on all topics of the occult and could thus be a valuable resource.
A well known 'classic' of the occult.
Perhaps this was the case though, since there weren't many books about witchcraft available in the United States at that time.However, the fascination with this book within the Pagan & Wiccan communities today is astounding considering that Gerald Gardner provides no basis for any of his 'factual' claims.
Basically, this book seemed more like a breakdown of what Gardner thought about topics and less about what is factually known today about those topics.An updated book with footnotes of where his thoughts could be either proven or disproven, complete with index, bibliography, and recommendations for further reading on topics that are glossed over would be a nice idea for the next reprint that is sure to happen.Reviewed by SidheSidhe
The origins of modern witchcraft.
Obviously, it makes an interesting reading.And drawing from the book, you can see how much research was put into modern media (obviously, of course, but for me it always a revelation to find possible sources where one gets inspiration from).
Learning more about witchcraft of the old and of today is learning about ourselves.It is, however, important to note that much of what Gardner says might not be completely correct.
He stresses the importance of covens and complete couples, while many witches practice alone.
He makes a clear stress on witchcraft being a religion, while it is not necessarily so.Concepts change over time and it's normal.
Gardiner was many things - rubber plantation manager, colonial customs officer, amateur anthropologist and much else.
One approach is to take Witchcraft Today as the fascinating reminiscences and speculations of a very interesting man, an example of a now vanished species.
He undoubtedly spent much time sympathetically engaging with the Dyaks and other indigenous peoples, though his book doesn't suggest that he ever transcended his own Western frame of reference (particularly telling is his speculation that African Witchdoctors might have acquired their frame of reference through contact with European refugees from with trials).
Perhaps best seen through two distinct perspectives - that of foundation myth for one stream of Wicca and (important this) through remembering that Gardiner constantly reminds us that witches are dreadful leg pullers.
Very clear about who are witches, from where derives the cult and the craft by the opinion of Gardner and so on.Honestly I expected many informations going deeply inside the cult of witches and the witchcraft.
Information and knowledge that I did not find in this book that gives you few, basically things that most books give.Maybe in past years this book was a very simple milestone of witchcraft, but today is quite overcome.
The "Today" of the title is just not our today, but the today of Gardner ages.Despite this it remains a must-to-read book for everyone is interested in occultism and witchcraft.
I couldn't finish this book.
Much of the information given in the first 100 pages is outdated, full of questionable connections or plainly wrong.
"Historical research" is rarely well documented and the book is more of a ramble about different ethnical cults than an actual source of information on witchcraft practices during Gardners' time.
As a follower of the fairy faith, I finally had to quit this book after the chapter about the little folk - he equates the fairies with the picts and tries to humanize them, thus making a weird attempt to rationalize magical beliefs while writing a book on the subject and depriving paganism of one of its integral parts.
While I do understand and acknowledge the importance of this book in the history of Wicca this was not a super pleasant read for me. It's pretty much common knowledge nowadays that Gardner's sources about the history of witchcraft are not that valid but even putting that aside I just felt like reading this didn't really bring anything to me. The fact my craft is very different and very far from Gardnerian Wicca probably did influence my vision of this book, though.
Today was 1954. This is more what-Gardner-thought-cool, than an account based on any evidence. It could also be argued that this is where Wicca started.
Gardner was the founder of Wicca or modern Wicca, so from that stand point the book has some value.If one wants a more thorough view of Wicca and the Witchcraft "Revival" one would do well to read books by Raymond Buckland, Doreen Valiente and others.Gerald Gardner writes his book to inform us that witches, though belonging to a dying cult, are still around.
The God and Goddess wanted only the best and though they were not all powerful they could use our help so they could in turn help us.Witches have been toruted relentlesy by the Catholic Church so that now their meeting are held quietly in someones home.
Witchcraft "Today" this book is NOT (even from the standpoint of the time it was written) It is an Anthropological "study" on the history of the craft which was pretty much all over the place.
Gardner just tended to ramble (as admittedly I am doing now) and within a single chapter would whisk the reader away through the Templars then half a page later to ancient Egypt and 3 pages further into Celtic Britania by way of pagan Rome/Greece with no real rhyme, reason, and most importantly rhythm.
In all honesty, there is a huge amount of speculation from Gardner as to the origins of English witchcraft, but he provides no sources and in some cases, provides no specifics.
He claims that Voodoo and Wicca have similar practices and must therefor have a common origin, but he doesn't name which practices he's talking about.
He also claims that the West African origins of voodoo were descended from Egyptian practices, but he provides no source for this, either.
I think this book is only good if you are interested in the origins of Wicca and believe this book to be it rather than an actual explanation of it.
Very important to seekers and practitioners of Traditional Wicca, though the initiates know more than what Gardner talks about here.Each time I read it, I come away with something new, whether that's an epiphany, idea for my practice or some symbolic association that I managed to overlook previously.
Yes, Gardner was a product of his times, and he was an upper class white man with all the social connotations inherent to that position.I think anyone who claims Wicca as their religion should read this book, because it will further their understanding of why witches perform certain rites and just where their inspirational roots lie.
This is the first mark on Wicca's History.
Gardner, the founder and - in my opinion - creator of Wicca wrote this book in the 50s.
Personally I think it's a good book for anyone starting to study Wicca.
It is a bit confusing to read since most of the times it seems he's talking to himself in a monologue but still it's a book that can teach you a lot about Gardner, his thoughts and ideas, where he got most of this knowledge and, finally, an introduction to what Wicca is and how, according to Gardner, it began.
it's a weird little book. part informational, part i know but can't tell you references to oath bound information, part request for more information. he seems to base his history on Murray, and she has since been debunked. i felt it important to read Gardner's books since so much of modern neo-paganism is at least a little influenced by him. and even if he didn't create the tradition himself he's certainly responsible for the spread of the religion across the world.
Whether or not Gardner faithfully preserved an ancient religions practice, and whether or not his conjuectures about its long history are correct, the impact of this book on modern Wicca is evident. What surprised me was how easily the practices he describes align with Spiritism, and how Gardner used to be a practicing Kardecist. I didnt know the two movements were related.
Whether or not Gardner faithfully preserved an ancient religion´s practice, and whether or not his conjuectures about its long history are correct, the impact of this book on modern Wicca is evident. What surprised me was how easily the practices he describes align with Spiritism, and how Gardner used to be a practicing Kardecist. I didn´t know the two movements were related.
I know this is the foundation of modern paganism, but now it just looks like a poorly researched, poorly written and repetitive monologue. It's a shame that it is not a stronger base for the religion.
This was a really good book one of the best and first books to come to print and explain witchcraft in its true form.If your interested in witchcraft or the history of witchcraft you must read anything by Gerald B. Gardner, so you can get a better understanding from a witches point a view.
I was excited to read this, as I gathered it was supposedly the "definitive" book on Wicca and Witchcraft... so far it is a slipshod mess in which he loses himself, continually digresses and doesn't tell me any spells. And that is just the first 40 pages!
Essential for its historical significance and to fully understand exactly what Wiccans believe in. Interesting and is a quick read, but the scholarship is abysmal.
It is a good starting point for people interested in paganism, wicca, witchcraft
Witchcraft has been around for ages. The author explores its venue in the modern world and give some examples.
133.43 G2269 2004
I can appreciate this book as a heritage type of volume but honestly, it was slow, long-winded, off-track and lacking any sort of references to anything.
Also because I was curious. Interesting, although the writing style is rather dry in places. And I couldn't help thinking it was one of Katherine Kurtz's sources for Lammas Night.
i wish to recieve any contact add ,tel from u , im intrested few books from ur shelves ,if u are selling them please .my email . celebratnewidea@yahoo.com.au
