https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/391281.Deviant
Harold Schechter is an author with Tourette's Syndrome - consider some of his book titles:Deranged!Depraved!Fiend!Bestial! Now imagine inviting Mr Schechter to dinner...."Ketchup!""Salt!""Mayonnaise!""Pickle!""Hideous!""Fiend!""Vile!"
This is the kind of book that raises the hair on the back of your neck. A very chilling and gruesome retelling of Ed Gein's life. Starting back when he was child all the way to his death. It was horrifying and difficult to put down at the same time. Very engrossing and disturbing because of the effect on the town and society at that time. He, being the first of many killers, has a shock value of no other. A recommended read for anyone who enjoys this genre.
Sealing up the rooms she lived in as a make-shift shrine, Gein lived in absolute squalor in the few rooms left to him, reading lurid true crime magazines (which will be blamed for the crimes by some *eyeroll*) and accounts of Nazi atrocities (some of which will inspire his grisly collection of memorabilia).Described as a voyeuristic, schizophrenic, fetishist necrophile and transvestite Gein fixated on women who resemble his mother, although as women who could never be as good as Augusta was, murdering and dismembering them in the most awful manner (the accounts of how the last victim was found seriously gave me the heebie-jeebies) though he was also a keen grave-robber, digging up yet more women, and taking body parts home with him.
I think I dated this guy.
This was one of the most disturbing books that I've read in a while!Deviant is a character-study of Edward Gein, the notorious killer, serial-ghoul, whose crime will always be memorable, mostly for the inspiration that it contributed to the making of Psycho, Texas Chainsaw Massacre, and Silence of the Lambs.
Regardless of how it made me feel while reading it, I gotta say that I never found myself bored due to the manner of how it was written, which is like a novel, and the book ended-up being very interesting.
After reading Deviant, I might take a break from true-crime books - Yes, it's that disturbing!
'Deviant: The Shocking True Story of Ed Gein' is one of those books almost all of you, my primarily gentle and, sad to say, mostly duplicitous readers, will deny having the stomach to read at all.
Many of you already insist that books in the true-crime genre are beneath you, especially ones like this one, which describe the factual events of crimes so gruesome and insane most people will have nightmares after *not* reading, for sure, guaranteed.
The adult crimes which were caused by mental illness enhanced by childhood abuse or poverty is common, gentle reader.
Unbelievable! I'll never complain about my neighbors again!
Excellent study of the Midwestern serial killer -- the basis of the fictional characters Buffalo Bill, Norman Bates and Leatherface. Also played by Steve Railsback in a biopic, which should tell you a great deal. Proves that in America, anyone can become a big star if he has a low IQ and very weak personal boundaries.
I've always heard about Ed Gein and what he had done but never knew the details. This book not only gives details but also has little tidbits about other monsters I'd never heard about. When all is said and done Ed Gein was a sicko genius.
Deviant: The shocking True Story of Ed Gein, the Original "Psycho" is written more like a novel than an act of reportage.
Yet somehow Schechter's Deviant filled me with pity and sorrow rather than horror and revulsion.
Of all the serial killers I have read about, Ed Gein seems the most deserving of pity, and Schechter's Deviant deepened my feelings.
Listening to Deviant (as I listened rather than read this book), I couldn't help wondering at how many points Gein's crimes could have been avoided by even a modicum of intervention.
This is one of the best true crime books I have ever read.
I have to admit, part of the reason why I finally picked this book up from my bookshelf is because I went to see the new Texas Chainsaw Massacre movie (Which I liked).
Here is some new information about him and his crimes that I did not know about until I read this book:1.
He lived and committed his crimes in Wisconsin and not Texas.5.
I highly recommend this book to any true crime reader and or people who want to read on Ed Geins.
This book was originally recommended to me by a psychiatrist I worked with when I worked in mental health.
It's the story about the original psychotic killer, Ed Gein, the basis for "Psycho" and "Silence of the Lambs"'s Buffalo Bill.
I've actually read the same author's book on the serial killer H.H. Holmes so I expected it to be pretty good.I wasn't disappointed.
(Kraft-Ebing considered masturbation a sign of sexual deviance, for example.)Beyond that, though, I'd say this is probably the book to read if you're interested in learned about the fascinating story of Ed Gein.
Like Dahmer, a little pitiful man named Ed Gein, raised by a dominant mother and abusive father, drifted into insanity after the death of his mother and proceeds to murder two women, rob the graves of several others and uses their body for multiple goulish ends.
Easy read, well written, but overly simple; this book does not delve significantly in depth into the mind of Gein but just explains the facts that overwhelmed Plainfield, WI in 1957.
I read it in two sittings and feel confident I know enough of what happened.
Pretty good book, but not really worthy of my library for the long term, as Capote's "In Cold Blood" which was outstanding.
This book has so much significance for me.
It happened only 60 miles from my home where I grew up, he was sent to Waupun Correctional facility where I lived after he was determined insane, and my Father worked at that facility.
I visited that place many times with my father but don't remember seeing Ed Gein but I probably was shown him.
This is a well written book detailing the happenings that was immortalized in the movie Psycho which was written by another individual from the area.
My understanding is that Silence of the Lambs was also taken from this incident.
I love anything to do with gory serial killers, and this is about a true life one, which inspired the Pyscho, Texas Chain Saw Masacre and Silence of the Lambs.....need I say more? Sadly I thoroughly enjoyed this book, it is very shocking and saddening for the victims and families involved, but I was engrossed and read in virtually one sitting which is very unlike me. Not for the faint hearted but would definetly recommend.
Maybe this book could be appeal to a certain audience, but this is written like a dime store novel instead of an informative exploration into the mind of what is possibly the most notorious killer that this nation has ever seen. Deviant is written like a tabloid article, when the subject should be thrilling enough to stand on its own feet.
This book goes over the crimes and adjudication of Ed Gein.One of the things that makes this case particularly interesting is that it was successfully adjudicated as an individual that was judged to be incompetent to stand trial.
10 years later he was found competent and stood trial, but still it was interesting.I would recommend this case study to individuals that are interested in how sexuality might influence deviant behaviors.
More specifically I would recommend this book to individuals who are interested in if sexual repression is a contributing factor to psychosis.
After previously having found a book about the famous cultist, Charles Manson, I wondered if maybe there was any piece of information about the killer that has always intrigued me the most: Ed Gein.
Schechter explains what was that that took hold of Gein's mind and pushed him to perform the aberrations he did.
In the end not only does the author illustrate who was Ed Gein and what he did, but he also shows what was going on his mind.
So yes, this is a very intriguing book and I'd highly recommend it to anyone who likes criminology and exploring the dark depths of the human mind.
Definitely a good read for the unitiated. Schecter comes off a little boring describing Wisconsin and dropping the word "oddball" one too many times, but the people in that area at the time did the same.He's great at describing the atrocities committed, but can keep it all within the context of Gein being a terribly mentally ill man.Would recommend it to all!
What a strange little man. This was a fascinating and tough read. Even though there wasn't that much killing, it was all the other weird and unusual obsessions that really got under my skin. Plus, how is it possible that someone who was only proven to have killed 2 people, inspire some of the scariest and most iconic movie killers of all time!?! Incredible.
Deviant is a gripping story of true crime, an investigation into the history and mind of Ed Gein, one of America’s most notorious serial killers and the inspiration for Psycho, Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Silence of the Lambs, and of course Slayer’s “Dead Skin Mask.” This book is deeply disturbing and quite fascinating. It’s worth a read, but only if you’ve got a strong stomach.
If you have a sick fascination with serial killers, as do I, this book will be intriguing, addicting, and incredibly creepy. Gein is said to have been an inspiration behind the Texas Chainsaw Massacre, a favorite of many horror movie fans, including this one, which made the book all the more addicting.
Writing a review for this will be a true challenge. But none the less, one to follow.
Yup, I thought so.So Ed Gein was not actually a serial killer, he murdered 2 middle aged women, but that doesn’t change that he was bat shit crazy.He grew up with an alcoholic and abusive father and bounded to his domineering mother since he was born, which drove him into ghoulish and bizzare acts of crimes and eventually came to light and stunned the world in 1975.
A quick and well-written true crime book for Halloween time. Schechter really is good at giving you a sense of place and time, of the community in rural Wisconsin, before, during, and after Ed Gein’s horrific crimes. There were several moments when the writing stood out as especially good. Shockingly good, in the way that I had to stop and appreciate the descriptions and imagery. I’d heard good things about Schechter from the Last Podcast on the Left guys, and he didn’t disappoint.
WOW! I don’t know what to say. I’m truly at a loss for words. Very thought provoking. Intense. Sad. Disturbing. Has a lot of information I didn’t know and tells the history of the town quite well.
I don’t know how I could possibly give this book a rating, so I didn’t. It was interesting, but really disturbing.
As I listened to this audiobook, I found myself wondering if anyone would guess that I - in my Honda CR-V and my Canada Goose coat and J.Crew blazer, the nice girl in the Legal Department who puts mums out in the fall and a nice wreath on the door at Christmas - am listening to a book about furniture upholstered in human skin and belts made of nipples?
Harold Schechter delivers as always with another biography of one of the most famous psychopaths that ever lived: Ed Gein.
It's been a while since I read one of Schechter's books, and he's just as good as I remember.This was the story of Ed Gein, and it inspired Hitchcock's Psycho (actually, it inspired Robert Bloch's Psycho, which Hitchcock made into a movie).
Although Ed Gein was no chainsaw-wielding maniac, he first cured and then wore the skins of the deceased.
Most of the bodies were apparently from grave robbing, but at least two of them died at his hands...because they reminded him of mom.Now, as horrific as that sounds (and is!), Schechter gives enough of Gein's background for me to actually feel sorry for the guy.
