https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40751090-the-cat-who-sniffed-glue
Book Review  3 of 5 stars to The Cat Who Sniffed Glue, the 8th entry in the "Cat Who" cozy mystery series written in 1988 by Lilian Jackson Braun. Moose County is certainly a memorable town. It's full of insanely eccentric characters who bring a bunch of laughs, whether it's over their appearance, action or words. And while Pickax, the town where Qwill, Koko and YumYum live has been the focus for the last couple of books, we're introduced to Chipmunk, the next town over, in this installment. A
And while Pickax, the town where Qwill, Koko and YumYum live has been the focus for the last couple of books, we're introduced to Chipmunk, the next town over, in this installment.
And Chipmunk must be the bad side of town, as they have all the hoodlums who cause crime.
How could a town called Chipmunk be so bad?
but on a lighter note, this one made me think of The Cat Who Played Post Office, simply due to the postage stamp adhesive and now the glue Koko and YumYum become obsessed with...
Koko and Yum Yum are Qwill's two Siamese cats, both of whom came to him during the course of solving a mystery.
He has also developed a bad habit of tilting a painting of a ship which hangs over the sofa.One night a couple of the actors fail to show up for rehearsal and then the community finds out that Harley Fitch and his wife were shot in their home.
But if you like a mystery with well developed characters and a little quirkiness, and especially if you like cats then I think you will really enjoy this book and the others in this series.
Since I only read 1 other in this series and it was a long time ago and don't remember much, I may try another but not for some time AND I will look for one that is the highest rated to see if I can even be interested in that one.
The silver lining is I needed a male Q for a challenge and luckily this was a short book/audio.In this book, Jim Qwilleran and his 2 cats (Coco & Yum Yum) are getting there house remodeled while 2 women are fighting over Jim (if you want to call it that, it was lame either way) and Jim goes back to writing a column for the new newspaper, when the towns banker and his wife (or was it the son & daughter-in-law of the town banker) were killed.
(That publication went belly up in the last book after the owner/editor was murdered.) A contest to name the new paper came up with “The Moose County Something.” Qwill decides to abandon his ill-conceived plan to write a novel and will be a contributing feature writer.
This will give him the opportunity to interview some of Moose County's more colorful characters and gets him back into the career that he has missed since moving from Down Below.On the romantic front, Qwill has already screwed up his relationship with Polly by getting a little too friendly with Francesca Brodie.
the cats getting dosed by a (view spoiler)[skunk (hide spoiler)] is another.my edition got denser content per page and starts chapters on even pages, resulting to only 200 pages (making this the shortest book in the series so far, i think.
i'll know more tomorrow once i see my book checklist).
i hope my copy of the next installment reverts to the original format.i should be catching some z's now 'cause i gotta be up early tomorrow to finish my electrical project at home but i had to finish this book and write this review.
Often when I choose a book on tape to listen to, I select a book that I wouldn't normally actually read.
This book is one of those.
." books before and decided to try one out.
It started off pretty slow, but by the end I was really enjoying it.
The characters were interesting and even though I'm not a cat lover, I enjoyed the descriptions of the cats and their antics.
It was a fun book to try and while I probably wouldn't actually read one of these books, I will definitely try another one one tape.
I seem to be finding these books less interesting... the people from Moose County are always excessive excentric and weird, and they always keep getting killed (I don't know how there's still people there!).And the cats re funny, but the mysteries are just suddenly solved 2 pages from the ending, like it was obvious and Koko and Yum Yum had been mewoing that since the start...Maybe it's my mood, how knows?...
Een nieuw avontuur in deze bekende en steengoede reeks.
Een paar nieuwe karakters maar ook vele oude bekenden, waar wel een paar onverwachte en nieuwe aspecten van naar buiten komen.
Een gezapig boek over een gezapig levende man en zijn twee katten.
Een snuifje paranormaal gedrag zonder het echt te erkennen of op de voorgrond te zetten.
De lezer mag er het zijne van denken - voor of tegen, het heeft geen invloed op de kern van het verhaal.
Doet een beetje aan Mrs. Marple dorpje denken waar achter de schermen zich veel meer afspeelt dan wat je in zo'n rustig plaatsje zou verwachten.
Opnieuw een voltreffer.
What an absolute delight to spend reading time with favorite characters Jim Qwilleran with Siamese cats Koko and Yum Yum. Regardless of what Jim Qwilleran is describing - daily habits with Koko and Yum Yum and his dining adventures with various female friends and acquaintances, he can make the ordinary become extraordinary.
As Jim is back on the trail for a good story to meet new deadlines, this one definitely becomes one of my favorites of the series.One hurries to enjoy the adventures and how murder and mayhem play a part but the story is always over too soon.
This is a very interesting read that I thoroughly enjoyed. Koko was into the glue! The hypothesis that he was interested in it because of bookworms, however, never really resolved. I would have liked to see him discovering a bookworm infestation and giving our bibliophile, Ed, a job!
Jim Qwilleran and his cats Koko and Yum Yum are three of my all time favorite book characters.
He has also developed a bad habit of tilting a painting of a ship which hangs over the sofa.One night a couple of the actors fail to show up for rehearsal and then the community finds out that Harley Fitch and his wife were shot in their home.
But if you like a mystery with well developed characters and a little quirkiness, and especially if you like cats than I think you will really enjoy this book and the others in this series.
#8 in The Cat Who ...
series.The Cat Who ...
Series - Pickax City, in Moose County (``400 miles north of everywhere'') is first disrupted by vandalism, then by murder.
When Harley Fitch, vice-president of the Pickax Bank, and his wife, Belle, are found shot to death, police chief Brodie, a bagpipe-playing Scotsman, thinks that vandals, from neighboring, low-class Chipmunk are responsible.
Involved though he is in starting up a newspaper, juggling several platonic romances, redecorating his house and spoiling his Siamese cats, Koko and Yum Yum, he finds time to snoop around.
James Qwilleran is getting his garage apartment re-modeled by Francesca who seems to be making a play for him while Polly Duncan is acting cool towards him.
There are frequent night time crimes happening in Pickax and everyone, including the sheriff, suspects the son-Chad-of a well known family.
Then the young son of a wealthy family and his unusual bride who is pregnant are murdered leaving the community in deep shock.
When Chad and three of his buddies are killed in an auto accident everyone thinks justice has been served except Qwilleran.
Cet ouvrage est le 8ème de la série, Qwill a déjà hérité mais il n’habite pas encore dans la grange, il commence le théâtre mais tout s’arrête lorsque deux membres de la troupe sont assassinés.Koko sniffe la colle des livres et Yom Yom est très perturbée.
Qwill a du mal à interpréter les signes que lui envoient ses chats mais il finira forcément par découvrir la vérité.Encore un épisode très sympathique de cette sage des « Le chat qui… ».
C’est toujours un plaisir de retrouver les différents protagonistes et de les voir évoluer au cours du temps, notamment les relations de Qwill avec les femmes et Pollie en particulier.En bref : à lire si vous aimez cette série !
This is one of those wierd non-mysteries I mentioned if you read my review of the first "Cat Who" book (which was much better). This is more like reading an account of people's day to day lives with the idea that a murder happened sort of in the back ground. You don't really get an investigation, no clues are uncovered, it just sort of "ends" after it just sort of "starts".Sort of odd.
I LOVED this series! I’ve read them all and rate them all a 5. If you like quirky mysteries this is one you should cover. Jim Qwilleran is my kind of detective ... add in a couple of clever cats & what you have is involved, funny and interesting.
Set in May/June/July. Lives in the studio. Has joined the theater club. Not a good relationship with Polly. Lots of other ladies. Weird play format for the book. Didn't like that. Construction on the mansion.
I thought I was spacing these out pretty well, but maybe I am re-listening to them too close together. This was OK, but it annoyed me more than it should have. I'm so torn....continue or take a break??
Not my thing. VERY BORING. Did not finish.
The Cat Who Sniffed Glue (Cat Who...) by Lilian Jackson Braun (1989)
Fun as always and a neat surprise at the end.
My mom lent me this....I'm more of a dog person, but its cute anyhow.
Koko has started really really liking glue (gets high sometimes).On the day of dress rehearsal, well-known members of society are found dead, and youths from Chipmunk are suspected.
The play is cancelled.Qwilleran tries to follow Koko's clues about who killed the Fitch couple.
Qwilleran's relationship with Polly Duncan cools while she suspects him of starting something with Francesca (Fran probably wouldn't mind).
Jim, Koko, and Ed, the bookstore owner, go to the Fitch mansion to take care of the books.
Harley and Jill; David and Fran - that's how it was in high school.
If an envelope is left out Koko will like the glue completely off the flap.
What is it that Koko is trying to say?Quill is getting used to his slower style of life in Pickax, but when a rich banker's son and daughter-in-law are found dead in their home, and it looks like it may be a robbery gone wrong, things really pick up.
Some dark secrets come to life about this model family and their not so model lives.To add to the mix is woman troubles, Yum Yum's misbehaviour and Koko's clues that seem to be indecipherable to Quill.
I am definitely becoming more and more fond of "The Cat Who..." series as I get further into it.
This is the 8th installment, and in it, the son and daughter-in-law of a local rich banker were found murdered in their home.
"Who dun it," I'm not saying, but I was definitely intrigued by the plot twist at the end of this novel.
In any case, once again, I found this to be a well written mystery novel with an entertaining plot and characters, and I suspect that this will become one of those series I will reread for a sense of comfort and nostalgia.
A fairly typical 'Cat Who' romp through Moose County. I read the whole series years ago and picked this one up for a fun re-read. Nice to revisit the colorful characters and places. Koko and YumYum have a bit of a misadventure near the end that brought out the fanatic side of Qwill. While formulaic the series are enjoyable and the reader becomes invested in the world of Jim Qwillerian and his amazing cats.
I AM NEVER LISTENING TO AN AUDIO BOOK AGAIN!Okay, maybe I will, but I loathed this experience. Accidentally hitting back and forward buttons, losing my spot, the app not telling me roughly where I am in the novel...just annoying.I can read these damned things in 2 hours! Why would I LISTEN to it for 10?
The idea to have someone else that suspicion is thrown upon was a good idea, I just wished it was elaborated on a little more than the overly dramatic quick ending to that idea. After reading it, I wished it had never even been put in the book. Good ideas, but no expansion on them irritate me. Still, I enjoy these books, and like the main character, Qwill and his cats, Koko and Yum Yum.
I love this series. Witty, fun, mysterious and crazy. All that being said, I did not care for the way this one was done. I get the reasoning behind doing it like a theatre script, but frankly, it was weird. Still, another good mystery solved by the two best felines a guy could ever have!
I found this book to be really dull. I am not sure if it was the writing or the narrating. Everything seems very old timey which is one thing that may have done it. I may try one more before making a final decision on this series as a whole.
