https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65349.Selected_Poems
I would love to say that I chose this book because I saw it in some library and thanks to my keen eye and awesome brain, I decided to read it because I had this weird hunch that it was going to be amazing.
I love when writers can take any ordinary situation and describe it like it's the most miraculous thing in the world and with every beautiful word that their language has to offer.If I have to choose between heartbreaking, bittersweet, intense poetry and this...
It's a beautiful thing to read and that's it.Enjoy.
I’ve ordered a copy of a group of the Cantos, rather than trying to read the whole of it (which is absurd), and “selected poems” of Auden and Paterson (William Carlos Williams) – thinking these would be more manageable… and give me a more plausible point of entry.This is the volume that arrived first, and so I’ll start with this.This is a collection made by Edward Mendelson, who was Auden’s Literary Executor.
(Mendelson thus suggests reading this edition first, and then the later revised versions second.)There is also a short introduction on Auden’s poetry and its relation to Modernism that is… simply put, brilliant.
I bought this book just for the inscription:For Heather...Because poetry can heal the soul.With love,Jason(Dec. 2001)I've spent many an hour wondering about Jason and Heather, whether poetry did in fact heal her soul, and why a gift given with love ended up on the discount clearance rack at Hastings. I'm not so hot on Auden's brand of rhyming poetry. It just doesn't speak to me. Neruda, Whitman, Wordsworth -- these are the poets of my soul.
I am perhaps a bit too incorrigibly romantic-modernist in my taste to follow him everywhere - a poem like 'On the Circuit,' for example is hardly my cup of tea.
*'Don Juan, so terrified of death he hears Each moment recommending it,And knows no argument to counter theirs;Trapped in their vile affections, he must findAngels to keep him chaste; a helpless, blindUnhappy spook, he haunts the urinals,Existing solely by their miracles.*I'm not in love with all of Auden's op-ed poems, but The Shield of Achilles is truly remarkable; has it ever been set to music?
A brilliant poet who nevertheless is accessible and understandable.
And to have written one poem in your life as good as "In Memory of W.B. Yeats" would be enough to ensure access to heaven.
It ends with this wonderful appeal to all poets: Follow, poet, follow right To the bottom of the night, With your unconstraining voice Still persuade us to rejoice; With the farming of a verse Make a vineyard of the curse, Sing of human unsuccess In a rapture of distress; In the deserts of the heart Let the healing fountain start, In the prison of his days Teach the free man how to praise.
Lovely stuff.
One of my favorites is a poem he wrote for Sigmund Freud after his death - it's long, so here's a bit of it:"In Memory of Sigmund FreudWhen there are so many we shall have to mourn,when grief has been made so public, and exposedto the critique of a whole epochthe frailty of our conscience and anguish,of whom shall we speak?
For every day they dieamong us, those who were doing us some good,who knew it was never enough buthoped to improve a little by living....but he would have us remember most of allto be enthusiastic over the night,not only for the sense of wonderit alone has to offer, but alsobecause it needs our love.
I have a much older edition of Auden's Selected Poems, when his Funeral Blues poem was still part of Two Songs for Hedli Anderson. I love Auden. More and more over the years actually. He's not as quotable as Frost. Or as monumental as Yeats and TS Elliot. He's more like a longtime friend who's not always steady on his feet, occassionally overreaching, a bit heartbroken, a bit bitter, a bit sweet, a whole lot of queen (LOL). If I could meet any poet from the past, I'd choose Auden.

There are moments here where your hear soars.The life of man is never quite completed; The daring and the chatter will go on: But, as an artist feels his power gone, These walk the earth and know themselves defeated.
Loss is their shadow-wife, Anxiety Receives them like a grand hotel; but where They may regret they must; their life, to hear The call of the forbidden cities, see The stranger watch them with a happy stare, And Freedom hostile in each home and tree.
The best of one of the best. Long, thoughtful. It's been a while since I've had to read such heady poems. Auden likes to write poems for people too, which is quite nice. I felt like I had to turn on a different part of my brain to read his work. It was a healthy exercise.
i really loved it....he has some poems that move you to tears...my favourite is Funeral Blues
“You’ll like it.”I may have been remiss with working my way through the Oxford over the years – but I’ve read its Auden again and again and never looked back, especially not when I got my hands on his “Selected Poems”.While friends may come and go, Auden has become something like the constant, eternal friend we all dream of having, someone whom we cannot wait to visit (and always can, at a whim) and sit with for a while, who never tires of our company and whom we, in turn, never tire of.
No sé cómo reseñar un libro de poesía.
No tengo la menor idea.
No sé cuándo un poeta es bueno, cuándo la calidad es superior, no sé nada, sólo puedo juzgarles por lo que me han transmitido.
Para mí una persona que es capaz de escribir poesía es un Dios, me parece algo maravilloso, digno de otro mundo y disfruto más que nada leyéndola.En Auden he encontrado a un autor diferente a los que he leído por el momento.
He llenado el libro de notitas, líneas subrayadas y poemas enteros que pienso volver a releer una y mil veces.
I really enjoyed finally sitting down with Auden -- though I definitely need to read him and Joseph Brodsky side-by-side, and I'd like to read more about his queerness and how it might have influenced his work. I feel like I've barely scratched the surface. But I'm keen for more!
reading auden takes such emotional energy for me. he has such a terrific talent, and a completely unique cadence among the modern poets. what hurts is the knowledge that -- too soon -- he left his art. after publishing "September 1, 1939" which drove thousand of spaniards to a grisly grave, auden wrote that his greatest wish was to never again write a single word of consequence. unfortunately for us all, he succeeded. September 1, 1939 I sit in one of the divesOn Fifty-second StreetUncertain and
after publishing "September 1, 1939" which drove thousand of spaniards to a grisly grave, auden wrote that his greatest wish was to never again write a single word of consequence.
We once had a company-wide email survey which asked 'What is your favorite genre of book?' The categories were 1) Mystery, 2) Romance, 3) Science Fiction, 4) Non-fiction, 5) Poetry, 6) Horror, 7) Realistic Fiction, and 8) Fantasy.
I thought about why people don't read poetry.
I think it's because poetry's pure form isn't the physical book.
Poetry started as live readings, live tellings, live story-telling.
Poetry can be read at short bursts from a book but there's nothing like hearing a poet do a well done reading.
I've probably read all the poems in this books five or six times.
Enjoying poetry requires a pure capacity to enjoy words without context.
Most people don't like words that much.
I will never stop reading Auden for the first time, I can't help but feel.
Sure, sure, i'd heard "funeral blues", and i had some vague understanding of him as leaning towards the left in the thirties.
Not much.In his introduction, Mendelson says that Auden was the first poet at home in the twentieth century, and I didn't really understand what this meant until i got to the famous poem "September 1, 1939".
But that's okay - because there are those poems that articulate our lives, and that more than pays the bill.[By the way, this volume does not include "Funeral Blues", which seems to me to be a horrific omission and really diminishes the collection as a whole.:]
Since my choices are mainly modern, I’ve opted for alphabetical order.W H Auden tops the list with his Selected Poems.
The choice of Auden in particular is because of the breadth of subject-matter - lines of love, of landscape, of family (“the cocky little ogre” is a friend’s baby) but above all his concern for the world around him.
On a desert island, I would need those reminders of the city, of the pressures on ordinary people of the day and the international conflict of his own times.In six lines, he writes an ‘Epitaph on a Tyrant’, finishing with “when he cried the little children died in the streets”.
I thought I'd like Auden because some of his quotes are fandabbydosey, but it seems like his best aphorisms were saved for interviews or something because I find it hard to see what merits him as an author widely studied (which is an assumption; my copy's full of ingenuous handwriting relating someone's teacher's wild misinterpretations (we all know that "blue curtain" analogy)).
Enjoy these 100 verse equivalents to Hank Marvin's debut album.
I don't think this is exactly the edition I read, although mine (the Everyman Pocket Poet edition, which wasn’t listed on Goodreads) is also edited by Edward Mendelson.
If I had to choose one line of Auden’s to express his poetry, it would be this one:"With the farming of a verse/ Make a vineyard of the curse."
A broad canvas of poems spanning the author's entire life.
Some of the earliest poems are enigmatic to the point of frustration, some of the later poems are silly and grin-inducing, there are wonderful images and lines and pieces scattered throughout, but the main reason to read this book--and the only reason I've given it 5 stars--is "Caliban's Address to the Audience" in THE SEA AND THE MIRROR.
In that stunning prose poem, Shakespeare, speaking through Caliban, addresses the would-be writers amongst the spectators about the joys, the dangers, and the despair of living on the threshold between reality and imagination.
If you fancy yourself a writer, this is worth reading again and again.
A comprehensive collection & a great introduction to the poetry of W.H. Auden.
Auden takes the traditional forms of poetry & makes them his own which makes his work really accessible, especially because he tends to take a realistic look at life's great events while still maintaining some Romance & drama.
Auden is witty, sensitive & honest & I would recommend this book, even if you're not usually a poetry reader, whether you want something to dip in & out of or whether you intend to read it all at once.
The selection of poems provided some interesting insight into Auden's writing style- I found Epilogue, In Memory of W.B Yeats, Aubade and Address to the Beasts to be my favourites among his poems, although the lack of such poems as September 1, 1939 was slightly disappointing.
It didn't stop this from being an excellent collection, and the introduction does justice in telling us of Auden and the undeniable impact he had on Literature.
Of course, Auden's a classic, and while not all his poems may be to your taste, you should definitely give them a chance- I didn't connect with all the poems, but you might appreciate the politically charged undertones.
So much to say about Auden.It's a pleasure to read a poet who's range of style and subject nearly the entire galaxy of poetry, from little haikus and ironic stand-alone couplets, to lengthy meditations on religion and literature and history, to wonderful little pastoral poems.
His breathed new life into old forms at a time when modernist poets were abandoning older teachings.
They sound great when read aloud or to oneself.Don't forget to get this in addition to his W H Auden Collected Poems, for that edition lacks many great poems that Auden removed from his own canon, because of his conversion to Anglican Christianity.
I'm re-reading Auden's poems out of this volume.
And the moved hands/A little way from the birds, the shy, the delightful?" Auden's verse is magnificent; he writes his villanelles and sonnets without a trace of the "unctious urbanity" that those forms are seen, by many readers today, to represent.
He knows what he's doing, yet doesn't wantonly careen into that indecipherable "academic" enclave of poetry that finds such disdain for simple language and traditional forms.
Auden wants to make things palpable, wants to leave you shaken yet better off in terms of how you think and feel about things.
Read "But I Can't" and tell me you aren't, too.
Many of the pieces in this collection were something of a surprise - almost always a pleasant surprise, it's worth clarifying. Auden used traditional forms far more often than I had anticipated, as well as rhyme. My favorite in the collection was probably the villanelle "Miranda". Of course, the primary piece to stand out, even if you're only flipping through the volume, is the gigantic prose poem "Caliban to the Audience," but it was, to me, the biggest (perhaps only) disappointment of the collection. In the end, however, I strongly recommend this to anyone who enjoys clever and elegant poetry.
I'm sitting on the campgrounds right now, waiting for Sarah to come back with lunch.
More and more I feel as if I am using Goodreads as my own personal sort of journal, a "what was I doing when I read this book" type of site.
Very rarely do I find myself enjoying a whole poem on its own, however.
Usually I find myself selecting one or two lines from a poem that really speak to me and fixating on them (there are a few exceptions).
Definitely a poet to revisit in the future and see how I feel about him then.
I frequently find Auden's poetry awe-inspiring. The poems here are an amazing collection in depth and breadth. I'm sure I will come back to this collection again and gain. I gave the volume 4/5 because I would have enjoyed more indexing, better layout and more treatment. A great bargain at the price, but if I'd realized how much I appreciate Auden's work, I'd have gone looking for more refined (and expensive) publications of his work. I'll likely use this as a working copy for notes, dog ears, and reference.
Auden is my constant companion. For me, his poetry reads at once romantic and mellow, level-headed. I appreciate the formal rhyme and meter. Here's a nice example (from "The Fall of Rome")..."Altogether elsewhere, vastHerds of reindeer move acrossMiles and miles of golden moss,Silently and very fast."The rhythm feels good, comforting, creates movement, and makes the poems easier to commit to memory (and keep me company). Personal favorites include "Out on the lawn I lie in bed," "The More Loving One," and "From the very first coming down."
