https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16176.The_Red_Queen
Things I learned from this book: (human) women like tall men, (human) men like beautiful women, (barn swallow) women like men with long, symmetrical tails, gentlemen prefer blondes, sperm are small because they made a dastardly deal with nature, gender exists (and there are two of them) essentially as an accidental by-product of a primordial genetic arms race, why (we think) that we (or anything else) has sex (as opposed to splitting in half or excanging packets of DNA), why roosters have wattles and how nucleic cells probably developed.None of these things help me get laid...so far.
In fact, it's akin to dry Kool-Aid.If you are satisfied with the hetero-normative, monogamous, anglo, male-dominated definitions of sex and partnership (and if you are going to read this book as popular literature rather than as complete and well-founded scientific conjecture) go right ahead.
It's a fun book.But if you are someone who is easily irritated by flawed logic and narrow surveys used to prop up wobbly theorizing, skip it.The good news is: Ridley doesn't care.
So go ahead and say that you don't like his book.
For example, describing "highly sexed emperors" he states that the ancient civilizations we know of were all ruled exclusively by ruthless men with hundreds of wives and thousands of children (mostly sons).
His knowledge of the ancient civilizations seems to be based on a cartoon about an evil pharaoh and his poor slaves.Finally, what annoyed me most is the plasticity of Ridley's "evolutionary" arguments.
If there is a trait which he states is characteristic of modern men, he simply says that it was obviously advantageous for males in the past.
Wouldn't men benefit from better language skills (something he claims women are better at)?
Μέσω της γενετικής ποικιλίας που γέννα η σεξουαλικη ανθρώπινη αναπαραγωγή, το είδος μας αντιπαρατιθεται σαν σε σκακιστική αναμέτρηση με τις ασθένειες, πότε νικώντας και πότε χάνοντας αλλά πάντα σε συνεχή σύγκρουση και πορεία μπροστά, που όμως ΟΜΟΙΑΖΕΙ ΣΑΝ ΝΑ ΒΡΊΣΚΕΣΑΙ ΣΥΝΕΧΕΙΑ ΣΤΟ ΊΔΙΟ ΣΗΜΕΙΟ ΑΦΟΥ Η ΜΑΧΗ ΣΥΝΕΧΙΖΕΤΑΙ ΑΕΝΑΩΣ...Στην συνέχεια με την ακατάπαυστη ανάμειξη των γονιδίων από γενιά σε γενιά ο άνθρωπος επιλέγει να κρατήσει ότι πιο ικανό στην αναπαραγωγική εξέλιξη, τόσο από την γυναίκα όσο και από τον άνδρα.
Well, I had hoped to write this review closer to having read the book, but I'll write this anyway, just without some of the examples I was hoping to remember.Roughly the first 1/2 to 2/3 of the books covers the different explanations for why sex arose and the mating habits of various non-human species.
All the stories of different species behavior is entertaining in and of itself.In the last part of the book, humans are closely examined.
If you remember that, and don't get your undies in a bunch, the discussion of how human nature is/was shaped by evolution is illuminating.So I recommend this to everyone, especially those interested in how the brain works, how people work, and/or how science works.
Plus I thought, hey that's kinda out of my comfort zone, I'd like to push myself to read something new and possibly difficult to understand.I couldn't make it past the first chapter, so I read the end in hopes to find what his conclusion is and its we are all apes in the end.
I find it hard to swallow that we are only biological animals who are driven only by the need to find a way to better our species by sex with those chosen for their perfection.
He does grant that we are creative, but still underneath it all we are just creative apes.
I enjoyed this book and recommend it highly. Some may see it as a cynical view of human nature, however I found it to be an engaging and convincing one.  My favorite quote from this book sums up the totality of the text for me: "...the choosiness in human beings in picking their mates has driven the human mind into a frenzied expansion for no reason except that wit, virtuosity,inventiveness, and individuality turn people on. It is a somewhat less uplifting perspective on the purpose of humanity than a religious one, but it is also liberating. Be different."
This is really well written, but I just can't really wrap my head around the themes of sexuality in this book, especially as it concerns the idea of gender. Also I don't really trust men of science who can write things like "boys are better in math than girls" or "girls are better at linguistic tasks" as if they are universal truths instead of biased theories.
How much more generous it would be if, instead of writing parables about childhood wounds, psychologists were to accept that some differences between the sexes just are, that they are in the nature of the beasts, because each sex has an evolved tendency to develop that way in response to experience. The Red Queen: Sex and the Evolution of Human Nature is a very accessible book. It is easy to read, follow and understand. After reading this book, you will never look the same at a cheating spouse,
How much more generous it would be if, instead of writing parables about childhood wounds, psychologists were to accept that some differences between the sexes just are, that they are in the nature of the beasts, because each sex has an evolved tendency to develop that way in response to experience.
The Red Queen: Sex and the Evolution of Human Nature is a very accessible book. It is easy to read, follow and understand. After reading this book, you will never look the same at a cheating spouse, a woman who had plastic surgery or a rich man.
I found the red queen idea to be a an illuminating metaphor and I enjoyed Ridley's take on sexual selection, even if as a work specifically on evolutionary biology it didn't rise to the level of Richard Dawkins' The Extended Phenotype, which I consider to be one of the best books existing on the subject, but since I read it right next to books that seemed to recapitulate most of its insights in fewer pages I'm not sure I would recommend it above either.
This was an interesting exploration of the reasons for sexual reproduction in many organisms, as well as then discussing the science with relation to human sexuality and sociology.
Ridley makes good thorough use of a broad range of research findings in the area, discussing these with (mainly) even-handedness and a breadth of illustrative examples.
It's an educational and readable book, full of useful facts and insights - I would recommend it to anyone interested in the subject.Unfortunately for me, I found some of it hard going because much of the science was stuff I already knew about from my college and university education, and previous books I've read on the subject.
کتاب رو ک خوندم افسرده شدم، آدم ناامید میشه ک برای پیدا کردن جنس مخالف این قدر باید تویه ی فضای رقاب
کتاب رو ک خوندم افسرده شدم، آدم ناامید میشه ک برای پیدا کردن جنس مخالف این قدر باید تویه ی فضای رقاب
As I was reading the first chapter, I kept thinking I was embarking on something written by a geek giggling at the word "sex"; I don't think I was entirely wrong, but if there was any giggling from the author at the mention of sex, it was for truly fascinating reasons.I disliked the first chapter: anything titled "Human Nature" in this day and age seems preposterous.
The book explores evolution via sexual selection, never missing illustrative examples along the way, and does a fair job at presenting the different views that have historically shaped how science understands sex and its consequences.Ridley used to be science editor at The Economist, which leads me to believe adds to the conciseness and clarity in his writing.
He didn't even bring up equity.Third, his chapter on sex differences (he used gender and sex interchangeably which I also didn't agree with) was a bit finite - he probably should have included the concept of degrees of difference rather than straight up black and white differences.
Or maybe talk about "in the most extreme cases, the differences may appear as follows" kind of thing.Fourth, Ridley would get on a roll and introduce some cool ideas and then end the chapter.
Even with my complaints, though, this was definitely an interesting read and I feel enlightened (and slightly emasculated due to the polarity of the sex/gender chapter).
Matt Ridley was educated at Oxford and is a journalistic scientist, which means he is able to translate the more complicated scientific breakthroughs and understandings to the wider public in a clear and succinct manner.Almost anything he has written, including his Guardian articles, are worthy of a reader's time.
However, just as one set of questions is answered you will only go on to formulate even more interrogatives but at least this time round they will be more meaninful inquisitions.This should be mandatory reading at schools for more mature students.
My God, I loved this book. Extremely accessible, yet very substantial. I don't think I can ever think about sex or human nature the same way. I feel that this is one of those seminal books that a person can't go back from.And it certainly does make it strange to go to a party and watch all the humans hooking up.

we have only to read the thousands of horrifying recent articles about new strains of antibiotic-resistant bacteria cropping up everywhere to understand intimately that this red queen hypothesis makes sense and what it means for us.from establishing the red queen as the basis for sexual reproduction, ridley goes on to attempt to explain the existence of a universal human nature through the lens of the effects of sexual selection on evolution.
“Sex, according to the Red Queen theory, has nothing to do with adapting to the inanimate world—becoming bigger or better camouflaged or more tolerant of cold or better at flying—but is all about combatting the enemy that fights back.”Genes are programmed (by who?) to replicate and mutate, so Ridley calls them “selfish.” And he talks about gene crossovers and then genes that are able to shield themselves from crossover, but more and more I’m thinking that this just proves even more that the genes aren’t what is thinking or strategizing.
CELLS THAT ARE REALLY JUST MOLECULES THAT DISCOVERED HOW TO COOPERATE THEN DISCOVERED HOW TO CREATE SOMETHING AS COMPLICATED AS PLANTS, ANIMALS AND HUMANS !?!
I learned a lot from this book.The thesis is that much of human intelligence is a result of a sex-se
Since this is a science book it is troubling that this doesn't follow the scientific method. Frequently topics are not developed logically leading to confusing and odd sentences. Some interesting propositions -- read for a lark.
This was like being in a work release program with an educated half-wit.Very questionable reasoning throughout.
Nothing sexier than reading about about the genetic reasoning behind objectifying the opposite sex, that's what I always say.
I didn't give five stars because I found this book something of a slog in the beginning.To make his case, it's necessary for Ridley to give an account of what has been found true of animal behavior before moving on to relate it to the most familiar animal, man.
The most demanding thing for animals that have separate sexes, is for each sex to keep up with what the other wants - sexual selection.We can't reproduce by ourselves, so we must be able to come together with at least one member of the opposite sex to provide a future for our genes.
One of the things that put me off of the book (before I actually read it) was the title The Red Queen.
I just wasn't particularly motivated to commit a decent chunk of my "one wild life" to a long form exploration of that particular subject.When I actually read the book, I was pleasantly surprised that it wasn't about menstruation at all.
The title is actually a clever reference to Lewis Carroll's Red Queen from Through the Looking-Glass, a character who has to keep running to stay in the same place.
The Red Queen offers an extraordinarily generative approach for interpreting the human condition and how it has evolved.I highly recommend actually reading this book.
This is a lucid, immensely readable book about the evolutinary foundation of human nature.
However, it as soon as it moves into the deeper waters of human nature it becomes vastly more interesting.Humang beings are just another animal species.
Language learning and a fear of snakes, for example, are hard-wired in our brains.
Human beings are very keen on wit and humour (come think of it, so am I) and this has been sexually selected for.
Anyone interested in human nature and why we are as we are should read this book.
This works well as an introduction to both human nature and evolution.
A fascinating book on my favorite topic.
The author refreshingly acknowledges that half of the theories he espouses in the book are likely to be wrong; for instance, I am highly skeptical of Ridley's theory that human large-brainedness arose from runaway sexual selection favoring cute, disproportionately large heads.
Nonetheless, I have no good reason to doubt this, and, as Ridley notes, all arguments of runaway sexual selection involve somewhat circular reasoning.
I was fond of Ridley's literary allusions to illustrate the primalness of our evolutionarily-shaped motivations.
Finally, this book is highly motivational with regards to my life's goal of acquiring a large harem.
SOOO glad to be done with this book!
I don't understand how it has such a high rating.
My uncle sent it to my daughter, so I wanted to read it first.
I'd let her read it, but I don't know why she would want to.
He states a theory, and then loves to say, but, wait, in the black tailed, orange-rimmed sage grouse, the opposite happens.
It's annoying how he picks out a totally obscure animal/insect/bacteria to prove the theory has flaws.
I'm going to need to read some 4 & 5 star reviews to see what the point of this book is.
This was an absolutely fantastic book.
I love this author!
The questions posed in the work are terribly to the point.
Why do we have two sexes?
Why not perform Asexual reproduction as many plant species do?
What are the genetic, and social functions of sex from an evolutionary standpoint?
I remember wondering about this very thing when studying botany in college.
How did we evolve to be a diplontic species?
(I want to be a dikaryotic fungus by the way...
Basically if you love biology and genetics this book is going to be a rollarcoaster of fun.
This is Evo Psych masquerading as hard science. It is sometimes dense and technical, sometimes defensive and condescending. There is some well-researched science, some reasonable observations, and some logical conclusions, but they are so inextricably tangled with sweeping generalizations, correlations misinterpreted as causations, and ambiguous data presented as certainty as to render the whole mess too annoying to read. I gave up with about 70 pages to go. Life is too short, and surely there is some more recent and more thoughtful writing on this topic by now.
