https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/951749.The_Dying_Earth
At the time I was studying John Marston, and I was having a good deal of trouble enjoying his tragedies (Antonio and Mellida, Antonio's Revenge) because the speeches were so pompous, so ridiculously passionate, the plots so elaborate and absurd.
He was using grand speeches in the mouths of children to show us the littleness of man, a poor paltry creature of monumental passions trapped in a flickering world.So I read The Dying Earth again, as if it were a Punch and Judy show mounted with magnificent sets.
Imagine the characters as puppets or children or mice if you have to, but read this book all the way through until you get to the end.
Yet, like the indian summer returning in one glorious fire for one last time before the coming of winter, the plant and animal life burst into incredible shapes and lush, exotic colours, wild magic replaces the rigid laws of physics (although Vance proposes mathemathics as the original source of spells) and wild carnivals roam the streets of the last cities of Man.In a development similar to Fritz Leiber and to other writers of the period, the genesis of the book and the setting came through short stories offered to fanzines and literary magazines.
You can plainly see that my reading of The Dying Earth is tardy, given that Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson cited Vance's work as influences on the development of the Dungeons and Dragons game.And how.More than an influencer, The Dying Earth is a wholesale supplier of D&D wares.
By the end, they were outstanding.The second-to-last story in the book, "Ulan Dhor," follows the journey of the titular novice sorcerer in his quest for the lost city Ampridatvir, once ruled by Rogol Domedonfors, a wizard of great power.
Imaginative and uniquely original, Vance sets the table for decades of speculative writers since.The heart of this work is Vance’s characterization.
Introducing characters like Liane the Wayfarer and Chun the Unavoidable, Vance crafts a kaleidoscope of personalities that revolve in a dynamic tension that brims with vitality and weird life.Finally, this is a demonstration of Vance himself.
This is something like watching a foreign film and being fascinated by the action but being unable to completely follow the dialogue.
Vance’s genius is Fellini like in its originality and distinct character.
There is some strange depressing morbid fascination in imagining the world - our Earth - an uncountable number of millennia in the future as an unrecognizably changed tired, dying ancient world orbiting the tired, dying ancient red Sun. It's the world in its last breaths, with the knowledge that eventually the life will stop with the Sun.  "Soon, when the sun goes out, men will stare into the eternal night, and all will die, and Earth will bear its history, its ruins, the mountains worn to knoll
Jack Vance's The Dying Earth is made of six short stories, somewhat interconnected, all set on future ancient Earth under the light of the dying Sun. It's a sad world, with the inhabitants reduced to a tiny fraction of the former populations, with science lost and replaced by magic (albeit somehow, in the far past, rooted in the ancient lore of mathematics), with hints of the former civilizations (none of them ours) hidden in the ancient ruins, with people squabbling over spells and knowledge and survival.
Going from their gritty, mirthless rehashes of standard fantasy badassery to Vance's wild, ironic, flowery style was jarring--going directly from Anderson's grim, tragic Broken Sword to this was tonal whiplash.At first I didn't know what to make of it: the lurid, purple prose, the silly characters, the story which jumped from idea to idea with abandon.
From the endless series of strange wizards vying for power to the nonsensical dungeons where one might face a giant demon head, a talking crayfish, an Aztec vampire, and an evil chest one after the next, I was immediately stricken with an uncomfortable nostalgia.Yet Gygax--like Wolfe and Martin--was unable to reproduce any of the wit or joy of Vance's creation, though whether they didn't recognize it or were merely incapable of recreating it I cannot say.
I can't help but think it'd make, with a bit of good retooling, a fairly interesting SyFy production.Nothing big budget, though.Some of the ideas are pretty standard science rah-rah, getting your life back on track rah-rah, and being your best before it all ends, which is a pretty cool message after coming out of WWII and wanting to dive into a bit of imaginative science fantasy, but let's face it, we've all seen movies as good along these lines, or it's equivalents, all throughout the decades since.I'm not saying this is a bad collection of short stories all placed in a similar setting and the same time, because it isn't bad at all.
To read The Dying Earth by Jack Vance is like to find oneself inside the fabulous canvas painted by some artist exiled to the end of the fatigued time… Or in the garden of paranoia…Deep in thought, Mazirian the Magician walked his garden.
Certain plants swam with changing iridescences; others held up blooms pulsing like sea-anemones, purple, green, lilac, pink, yellow.
Here blooms like bubbles tugged gently upward from glazed green leaves, there a shrub bore a thousand pipe-shaped blossoms, each whistling softly to make music of the ancient Earth, of the ruby-red sunlight, water seeping through black soil, the languid winds.
“Earth,” mused Pandelume. “A dim place, ancient beyond knowledge. Once it was a tall world of cloudy mountains and bright rivers, and the sun was a white blazing ball. Ages of rain and wind have beaten and rounded the granite, and the sun is feeble and red. The continents have sunk and risen. A million cities have lifted towers, have fallen to dust. In place of the old peoples a few thousand strange souls live. There is evil on Earth, evil distilled by time…Earth is dying and in its twilight…”
This was AMAZING. I fell in love with Jack Vance reading this novel and I can not for the life of me understand why I never read any Jack Vance before. I blame myself and the entire world for this oversight and I intend to correct the problem immediately. What an amazing combination of condensed writing and huge amounts of story. I can't believe this is only 156 pages long and yet Vance left no stone unturned as far as telling a complete story. I am off to read more Vance.
I've known for quite a while that George RR Martin thinks highly of Jack Vance and The Dying Earth and last year I had the opportunity to read his anthology, Songs of the Dying Earth, where a number of authors wrote short stories set in The Dying Earth.
Instead of one long narrative it's just a collection of short stories that are loosely connected by the land of the dying earth and the stories are titled by the character the story follows.
I haven’t read any of those writers other than Wells, but they sound like pretty good company.Since all art takes its inspiration from earlier works, it’s not a knock on Jack Vance that he shows his influences quite clearly.
If you’ve encountered anything like it, it’s most likely that those writers took their cue from Vance.The book is very short (around 175 pages), and is actually a collection of six slightly overlapping but self-contained stories set in an incredibly distant future earth where the sun has cooled to a red color, the moon is gone, and humanity has declined to a pale shadow of former greatness, and struggles to survive amongst the ruins of the past.
6.0 stars. One of my "All Time Favorite" novels. Jack Vance is one of the "undisputed" masters of the golden age of science ficiton and this may be his greatest work (though I have not yet read them all). The world Vance creates in this collection of linked stories is as good as it gets and the characters who inhabit it are all fun and original. I was absolutely blown away by it. HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!! Nominee: Hugo (Retro) Award for Best Science Fiction Novel.
So this consists of 6 Sci-Fi short stories, and they are interconnected in some way.
After reading this, all I can conclude is that I'm not fond of anthologies.
Some stories are good, but some are also bad, and that makes the over-all rating low.
Both were very interesting and I read them very quickly.
The whole anthology didn't consist of the typical Sci-Fi war, political drama, technological advancement and some other usual stuff.
When I was looking for a good Sci-Fi book, this book caught my interest.
It in no way satisfied my wanting to read a good Sci-fi novel though.
(I would probably liken this reading experience (espicially so with Vance's use of "high language") with the one I had reading Eddison's The Worm Ouroboros.) The Dying Earth is one of those books.
But there's a lot to like about the story as well, and the problems could of been rooted in a distracted reading on my part.
I would certainly be willing to give it another go, and I left the book as a whole wanting to read more of Vance.
Meh, what on earth?I went into the book expecting to like it, and it is nice and short, but after a good start it just went downhill for me.
The first couple of stories about a wizard and two identical girls created by magic are great, but the subsequent stories just bored me.
Something materialize / dematerialize / turns into a frog.I do not doubt that Jack Vance is a great writer and his prose is beautiful but this book is not my bag.
I remember reading the first Lyonesse book and liking it so I think I will reread that instead of trying any more Dying Earth books.
Unbelievable. I read Jack Vance's '"The Star King" and thought I had hit gold. Now I read this and find it even better. This novel is so much fun, I can't stand it. Terrific writing and as imaginative as I think it is possible to get. My only complaint is that it was so short that I was left wanting much more. Completely amazing.
Apparently Vance is a master fantasist, on par with Tolkien, and his Dying Earth series inspired all of those authors, and many more, in the latter half of the twentieth century.
In this respect, The Dying Earth required more effort from me than, shall we say, more straightforward of fantasy.So I will reserve myself from making a recommendation for or against Jack Vance.
Or maybe, like me, you will read The Dying Earth, recognize a master at work, but sadly be deprived of joining the club.
"What is your wish?" The voice, mellow and of an illimitable melancholy, came from beyond the wall."Pandelume, today I have learned that killing is evil, and further that my eyes trick me, and that beauty is where I see only harsh light and evil forms."For a period Pandelume maintained a silence; then the muffled voice came, replying to the implicit plea for knowledge."That is, for the most part, true.
"The sky of Earth is a steady blue, and a red sun moves over the horizons.
And, it is an important classic, first published in 1950; Jack Vance's codification of magic items & spells proved influential in RPG-game design.Dying Earth Series: Tales of the Dying Earth: The Dying Earth/The Eyes of the Overworld/Cugel's Saga/Rhialto the Marvellous is an omnibus edition of the four novels written by Jack Vance (1916-2013) between 1950 and 1986; the first is simply The Dying Earth, which is itself a collection of six short stories.
Below are excerpts and comments of Beauty's themes in The Dying Earth (per story):1) Turjan of Mirr: The books opens with a sorcerer trying to create living things.
С пълпи сюжетите си се нарежда в сърцето ми до съвремениците си ван Воггт и Мерит.„Залезът на земята” е първа книга от четирите в поредицата и единствената, която е видяла издаване у нас.Шест бегло свързани истории за една дива и уморена земя, под едно угасващо слънце, чиито останали малко жители са деградирали до задоволяване на първични животински импулси, а науката отдавна се смята за магия, която също постепенно изпада в забрава.
Lo ideal hubieran sido 3.5 estrellas, pero al final le pongo 4 porque me ha dejado buen regustillo.Antes de leerlo deberíais saber que no es una novela como tal, sino seis historias o cuentos en los que se entrelazan los personajes y lugares en los que sucede la acción.Lo mejor de todo sin duda es la forma en que escribe Vance, hace tiempo que no le leía y la verdad es que su prosa me ha encantando.
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.The Dying Earth is the first of Jack Vance’s Tales of the Dying Earth and contains six somewhat overlapping stories all set in the future when the sun is red and dim, much technology has been lost, and most of humanity has died out.
By the way, I want to say that I’m extremely pleased with Brilliance Audio for publishing these stories!Jack Vance is my favorite fantasy author.
This collection of short stories set in Vance's Dying Earth is old school fantasy and may suffer from the phenomenon of seeming to be derivative by virtue of being the thing that everyone else has been imitating.
It's reminiscent of Moorcock and Gene Wolfe, but distinctively Vance.This is a world where magicians know one of a hundred known spells, the rest all lost to the ages.
As I said, this book suffers from the fact that most people have probably read so many imitations that The Dying Earth deserves acclaim for its place as a core work in the fantasy genre, but it doesn't have much that most fans haven't seen before.
Under the deep red sun of a far, far future wizards and sorcerers, sorceresses and creatures, blends of animal and plants, creatures un-thought of wander across an Earth in ruins where pockets of people still live, awaiting the end when the sun goes out.
I found it mildly interesting over all but to be honest by the end I really didn't care much anymore.
I think (personally) that Vance has done much better work and don't plan to revisit the Museum of the Dying Earth.
Not a bad read, but not great, see what you think.
The six stories that comprise The Dying Earth (titled in later editions as Mazirian the Magician) are some of Jack Vance's earliest work, published in 1950 but written during WWII while Vance served in the merchant marines.
Reading the stories in order, Vance's writing skills visibly evolve and mature.
The first three stories - the weakest in the collection - involve many of the same characters and in the third story we are introduced to the setting of Earth near the end of its days, thousands of years after the collapse of civilization.
The last three stories, all set on Earth, are much more mature in content and form than the first three stories.
I've read a short story in this series & it was OK. I think it was in one of the early "Flashing Swords" anthologies. I don't care for the style of writing. The world is certainly imaginative, but too chaotic & there is no real characterization. Also there are too many weird names to keep track of in the bits & pieces I listen to. Nope, just not going to work for a whole book. Moving on.
This special signed edition is limited to 250 numbered copies and 26 lettered copies. This is copy 219. Also signed by Tom Kidd.A very late signature, by an unsteady hand, one of the last he ever made probably.
And yes, I understand that it was written in the 1950s when women were viewed exactly as this author staged them, but there's a line between simple disregard and misogyny, and Vance crossed it in the very first story where a wizard of great power created a pair of stunning bookend beauties in his lab.
The first story ended in deus ex machina that crushed Satan's Mistress, pulled the wool from Beauty's eyes, and fixed her prince's face, so that both women, the flawed one and the perfect, could achieve the pinnacle of female happiness and harmony: they could settle down to serve their men.
