https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156171.Mandie_and_the_Secret_Tunnel
From an adventure book for grade and middle school girls?
An orphan heroine, strong friendships, secret tunnels, missing wills, ghosts, wealthy relatives, fabulous dresses, a Cherokee spy network, long-lost relatives…this book contains it all!
I'm not sure what to call it, but "Mandie and the Secret Tunnel" represents the beginning for me.
It was boring at first, but by the time I was ten or eleven, I had read every single book in the series and positively adored Mandie.
yet I will honestly say, the Mandie series, represented by this book, was a life changing step for me.
Bleh. bleh. bleh. No, no, no. This book is DISGUSTING. I was so into this series when I was like seven....I wish I could go back in time and tell my seven year old self, "Do not read such disgusting crap, my little self," and convince little Mimi never to read these books again.I would not recommend this book to anyone. Never. Ever.BLEH
I remember the serious anticipation i had as i waited each week for my book to arrive at the library.
This is a great book for anyone young.
It builds moral fiber.
However, even if one is not of the christian faith the morals are all for the greater good of society and the religious factor, though integral, could be over looked depending on the person.
It is not a pushy religious book.
My mom loved when i read these books.
I LOVED these books, and still do.
My kids will be reading them, i hope my grandchildren will be too.
Even in the depths of my darkest days (aka the days when I would pick these books out of the library devour them the way I devour good quality books these days) I despised Mandie's whiny ass.
Also Joe is a creep (<- literally tells Mandie in book 1 that he's going to marry her one day) What a douche.
Tommy and Joe are just ummm dumb) This book is a Christian children's series targeted at young girls, and so we don't have a book without Mandie's internal prayers and realizations about hOW GOD IS GREAT and there's nothing wrong with being religious,, but it's kind of annoying.
{There also is the “Young Mandie Mystery” series, (Book #1 review Here and Book #2 review Here!) but they do not connect together well}Spiritual Content- Psalm 23:1 at the beginning & quoted later; Talks about God; ‘H’s are capital when referring to God; Prayers; Mentions of Scriptures; Mandie doesn’t think God loves her because He took her father; a preacher talks about hell at a funeral; Uncle Ned referrers to Heaven as the “happy hunting ground”.
*See my thought on this series versus the younger series, Here!Link to review:http://booksforchristiangirls.blogspo...*BFCG may (Read the review to see) recommend this book by this author.
I admit it: I am reviewing these books years after reading them.
My battered and faded copies of these books testify to how many times I read them growing up and plots and entire passages are seared in my memory forever.
Snowball always ran away, Mandie always got in trouble, Uncle Ned always rescued her, and Joe and Tommy bristled at each other.
Ah me, to be young and silly again...If I had written goodreads reviews at the age of eleven, all Mandie books would've received automatic five-star ratings and gushing descriptions.
And I'm guessing Mandie never grows up, either.

this was my favorite series growing up! Every young girl should read them - they taught me a lot about life, love and God, all while being thoroughly entertaining! Actually, they are good for boys too - my brother loved them! lolI won't bother marking every book in the series but i have read most of them and highly reccommend them for young girls!
Another wonderful children's series I read as a girl. I checked out the entire series one summer and binge read them. There were good morals and lessons in each book, managing to continue to capture my attention so much that I remember it even years and years later. :)
Re-read this in a day; this used to be my very favorite book when I was younger, but I think I like it even more now that I am reading it from an older perspective. The relationships (primarily between the kids) are so innocent and just plain good old-fashioned. I highly recommend this book if you are looking for a quick read, a mystery, and just a hint of romance.
Yes, said farmed-out kids were treated as basically slave labour by many of the people who took them in; they were made aware every minute that they were there on sufferance and had to "pull their weight".
The Christian element isn't as cardboard in this book as I have often found, and the book is better written (waaay better) than most of the "Christian fiction" I have come across.
The "mystery" element isn't terribly prominent, though.That said, the "found relations" thing was a bit odd.
The boy-and-girl stuff was a bit odd from today's perspective, but in the countryside in those days people did "get hitched" younger than now.
I think if I'm remembering correctly, things kind of ease up as the series progresses, with each book about one solid story with a handful of minor plotlines twisting around it, which solves the pacing issue I see with this book.
So consider this a fast indoctrination into the world of Mandie, hang on for a fast adventure, and by the end you'll have a solid feel for characters and story that will take you forward into all the other Mandie adventures.It makes me sad that the author is gone now, and so there will be no more Mandie books, because I so wanted to see her as an adult.
I loved the series then, and I still find it enjoyable now.
I happened to spot the books on the shelf at the library and decided to read the series again.The book begins with the death of Mandie's father and tells of how she deals with her grief in the face of the hardships set before her.
I'm sure my mother was thankful for the library and my all-but-unlimited access to free books!Now, I appreciate that this is a series of books that is enjoyable to read as well as having a Christian message.
This book, at the time, was the best book that a ten year old could get her hands on...or so I thought.
I remember going into the library in search of a book...and stumbling across this one.
After that I read all forty-one of Lois Gladys Leppard's Mandie Series and had two years of entertainment.
I remember how much I wanted Mandie and Joe to get together *sigh* but alas!
Oh well, I look back on this book (and all of the books) with happy memories.
I am definitely recommending this book (and all the books) to my lil sisters.
Yeah, yeah, they're "girl books"... but it's not like I read the whole series (only the first 23 books to be exact) but what else is there to do after you've read all the Bobbsey Twins and Hardy Boys?
This book is pretty much why I fell in love with this series.
Her daddy has died, and she thinks that God has stopped loving her.
Ultimately Mandie's world becomes hole again, when she finds out that John Shaw is indeed alive, and that the woman she'd called her 'mother' for the past twelve years was not actually her mother, but the beautiful Miss Elizabeth Taft is her mother and had been forced to give her up, believing that her daughter had died in birth.
Now, Mandie has a loving family.
When her father dies Mandie is left with her unfeeling mother and cruel sister.
Mandie's two friends are Joe, an old schoolmate and great comfort, and Uncle Ned - her father's faithful Cherokee friend.
Will she be able to run to safety with Uncle Ned?
Does God still love her?This book teaches important life lessons.
Why does God take our loved ones?
Will God love us after this?
The whole focus isn't so much on God, but He is certainly very important.
Mandie and the Secret Tunnel will entertain you as well as show that God really cares.
The first in a series that I probably would have really enjoyed around ages 8-11.
With the living situation being settled by the end, I might be more interested in the other mysteries that Mandie sets out to solve.
I did enjoy being able to guess what was going on before it was revealed, while still having one thing baffle me even though the clues were there and I thought it was just bad editing.
Fast read--once I settled down to the book it only took the length of a youth dance.

I can't really rate these books, because I grew up reading them so they hold a certain fondness. They are fairly good mysteries for young reader's, but since I'm hardly a young reader anymore, there were plenty of things that annoyed me (nothing that the average ten-year-old would notice of course).For one thing, it seems like the only reason Mandie and Elizabeth like Uncle John is that he looks just like Jim. It makes me feel very, very sorry for Uncle John.
I adored this series as a child. I think it's part of the reason I dreamed of visiting Europe from such a young age. However, on re-reading these for nostalgia's sake as an adult, I'm recoiling in horror. They're badly written, repetitive and chock-full of in-your-face Christianese. No wonder, coming from a strictly conservative Christian publisher. I'm glad for the hours I spent enjoying these as a child, but saddened that trite Christian books were the only ones I was allowed to read.
This was one of my all-time favorite series as a young girl! I fell in love with reading when I began the Mandie series- words can not express the amount of joy and adventure that Lois Gladys Leppard brought to my life through these books!
A great start to an apparently long series.
BEST SERIES FOR LITTLE GIRLS IN THE WHOLE WIDE WORLD!!!
This book may have a sad beginning, but the wait is worth it. All the fun adventures, excapes and hikes are so exciting and will keep you at the edge of you seat!!
My 4 star rating is based on when I read this book years ago. I really enjoyed reading the Mandie Series and was very sad to learn that the author passed away before completing Mandie's story :(
I remember reading these books when I was younger, and I'm re-reading them for nostalgia's sake. I loved them then, and it's a nice trip down memory lane for me.
Gosh I used to love this book.
I'm not saying I don't love it now, it's just a different kind.
It's the nostalgic kind that warms your heart a little.
Because this book had a distinct impact on a younger me, and I will forever love it for that.
I've outgrown it, so I will leave it to that younger me, who can love and cherish it always.Mandie's still one of the pluckiest heroines in fiction, to me anyway.
yeah, this was really nostalgic and short and made me really happy, so it gets 4 stars from me.
3.5 starsSo I read this series when I was younger and I really enjoyed it.
Reading it now, I can definitely tell these books are for a younger generation.
I don't like the writing as much because it is so juvenile.
But these books are part of my childhood.
I just feel bad for reading them now because each one is like a half, a third, a fourth, or a fifth of a regular book.
Shouldn't really count for the reading challenge because I read the first book in under two hours.
I will just go over my goal by a lot.
I loved the Mandie books as a pre-teen. I devoured all my library had, then saved all my money to buy them at Books-a-Million. My first "novel" was basically fan fiction of this series. I wanted to write like Leppard and I wanted to be Mandie. I actually considered going by Mandy because of these books - even though literally no one ever called me Mandy. I will always look back on this series with great fondness.
