https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2302536.Raven_Quest
Raven Quest is a thrilling story by Sharon Stewart.
From beginning to end I was gripped in the struggle for survival with the hero Tok. Sharon knows how to right a story, and I learned some amazing facts about ravens and crows along the way.
There were some parts in the story that really touched my heart, and other parts when I was eager to know what happened next.
An amazing story that I recommend to all who love animal adventures,~Sparrow
Apart from a few chapters in the middle where nothing really happens, this is a great book. Very short chapters, so if you only read one or maybe two a day this book will take a while.Everything is written from Tok's (the raven) perspective. But while this allowed me to see the world through Tok's eyes, it didn't actually make me feel like Tok. But maybe that was the author's intention, and I enjoyed it anyway so it doesn't really matter.Bottomline: Overall highly recommended, and I'll probably give the sequel, Wolf Rider, a chance too.
I got so bored... i dont think i finished reading this book. XD
No wonder this book got the Silver Birch award!
What an amazing piece of literature for children.
I read it for my own enjoyment but then insisted on having the child read it as well.
I will most definitely be reading the second book.
This book is about a raven's "coming of age" journey intertwined with trying to fix his reputation.
Stewart does an amazing job of bringin Tok and his friends to life, and I was sad when I finished reading this book, because I had no more to read!
An excellent read, great characters, fascinating story. Highly recommended!
This book is an inspiring tale of friendships forged amongst different species. If you like animal tales with adventure and characters who come alive you'll love this book.
This book really left me in suspense and I was always at the edge of my seat reading it. The storyline is amazing.
I love books like this had me completely wanting to know more
When this book was recommended to me, I knew I had to read it.One of the things that I love most about this story was how ravens were written in general - they actually acted like real birds!
When Tok gets falsely accused by the raven who hates him, I was like "Geez!
I'm telling you, there's lotsa characters to despise in this lovely little story, but thankfully Tok knows how to be awesome.
:)This is a great story for all ages, but I can see kids appreciating it the most.
Brilliant.
Truly brilliant.
"Raven Quest" is one of the best animal books I've ever read--very likely one of the best books I've read.
And while the animals talk and have systems that the actual animals don't have, they still feel like normal animals...
and maybe they're like this without our knowing.
Who knows.
I think my only real problem with the book was the crows' ease with Tok, whereas normal crows would mob any trespassing raven or other chick- and egg-eater they could, but that rivalry still existed in the story, so I excused her.Meanwhile, the plot is original, the writing is great, and the characters are strong.
Tok, a yearling raven, is banished from his community, his honor stripped, his patrimony denied--all based on false accusations.
But in order to reclaim his honor and his rightful place in his community, he sets out on a seemingly impossible quest to reunite all ravenkind with the legendary Gray Lords.
What a heart-stopping adventure, full of danger, tragedy, unlikely friendships!
because Ms. Stewart has so thoroughly researched the social and natural ecology of raven clans and wolf clans, the reader comes away with a deeper knowledge of these magnificent creatures.
Young Adult Fiction is a happenin' place!
I hate it when reading a book with speaking animal characters it contains their animal noises along with their dialogue. Because I guess just having them talk isn't enough, we needed to constantly be reminded that these are indeed birds and not just people flying around having conversations about ravens being more awesome than crows.
A fantastic story about survival between two species. Ravens and wolfe's working together in order to survive. The Raven Tok is an outcast and must find a way to save himself because he has been falsy accused of murder. All the books i read have a five star rating because there all fantabulously awesome and magnificant!!!
When I picked up this book it was simply because the cover was interesting at the time. The story inside, however, captivated me I loved it. And despite reading it so many years ago there are some vivid details that I remember from this book. Somehow it has stayed with me all this time. A good read for a young reader with a strong appetite for adventure.
I would have given this book a 5-star, had it been more interesting in the beginning. Great, but you need to bear through the beginning before you get to the action part. Also a little sad in the middle.
Amazinggg book. I love this book. Tells you hardships a raven goes through in which you can relate to as well. It's so well written the climax and plot and everything is really really good. I suggest people read this (:
I read this in about fourth grade and I remember enjoying every bit of it. It was one of my first "mature" reads and I couldn't put it down. I don't remember much since it's been nearly five years, but I'm definitely thinking about reading it again.
Raven Quest was well-written, easy to yet yet filled with vivid vocabulary, and the characters were incredibly interesting. Following one raven exiled from his community, this book is an unforgettable story definitely worth reading.
This is definitely one of my favourite books! I've read it about 5 times; I love it so much! I love the plot and the characters. Wonderful book by a wonderful author, and the sequel is just as fantastic!
I loved this book!!
like warriors, it gives the vision of the ravens as the superior animal type on an epic quest.
Raven Quest is a exiting book with hardships and AWESOME parts! Hope you like it if you read it!
If I could I would rate it 2.999. It's a good story, but I the life was strangled out of it during editing.
WOOOt .. i have a question though does this book remind anyone else of a movie plot they might have seen ?????
It is quite exciting in the beginning and the end but the middle losses the action of the first few chapters but quickly rebuilds tension. The story can fill any ones need for action and drama.
Best book ever
I thought it was okay, I didn't really enjoy it, but the way the author wrote made it addicting and you just had to finish it.
I read this for like the 4th time last year. Might soon be due for a re-read :) I love this book and it's so well written.
the plot was pretty intriguing it was just really boring in some places...however, the ending was good plus i loved the little quotes at the beginning of each chapter! so much like inkheart!
