https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/196150.Japanese_Tales_of_Mystery_Imagination
Edogowa Rampo--just say his pen name quickly three times to discover how much he loved Edgar Allen Poe--is considered the first and foremost writer of Japanese mystery fiction.
Indeed, I think Rampo's stories may be equal to Borges--which is a high compliment indeed--but I cannot be sure, for this translation often lacks the verbal elegance that would best communicate the formal beauty of these tales and give them the extra polish a first class work requires.All the nine tales here are very good, and "The Caterpillar," "The Hell of Mirrors," The Red Chamber" and "The Traveler with the Pasted Rag Picture" are excellent, but I must single out "The Human Chair" for special mention.
I’m glad I finally read this collection, since, as with Edgar Allen Poe for American literature readers, only moreso, these tales are universally familiar to Japanese readers. The tales themselves? Fine, but none of the stories were special or memorable. All were well-written and reminiscent of Algernon Blackwell in style.
It's essentially the same perfect murder in a lot of the stories.
The getting away with it the appeal rather than the murder (wouldn't anything else work just as well?).
To relate to the chair man (how could I not, as much as I read?) and then "Hey, did I make you think?" non-sucker punch line.
To feel the writer's eyes behind the page would be living as the human chair.
Trapped in a purgatory of wicked impulses." It would have been better to feel those desires, rather than be the recipient of them that way of did I make you think?
Una maravilla, me quedé con ganas de más!!
Lectura con el grupo 221 b Baker streetEsperaba mucho y me supo a poco.-RTC-
Luckily this book was recommended for this month's book club read and very perfectly the author's name is a pseudonym, a play on Edgar Allan Poe. Say it out loud: Edogawa Rampo.
Out of the three suggested for book club, The Human Chair was the most interesting to me, but the others were also good.A note on the translation, from the introduction:Edogawa Rampo, while fully capable of reading and understanding English, lacks the ability to write or speak it.
I don't think it would be inappropriate at all to read a few of these along side of Poe's short stories in schools.
These different strange and surreal stories reminded me a lot of stories like Dark Water and The Ring - very different and very well-written.
Estos son los nueve relatos incluidos en ‘Relatos japoneses de misterio e imaginación’ (traducción de la versión inglesa, Japanese Tales of Mystery and Imagination, 1956), del escritor japonés Edogawa Rampo, seudónimo de Hirai Taro:La butaca humana.
(***) Una pareja charla al borde de un precipicio, donde saldrán a relucir oscuros secretos.El infierno de los espejos.
(***) Siete sepultureros se reúnen para contar historias.Los dos inválidos.
Durante la travesía uno de ellos enseña la pintura que lleva, para posteriormente contarle la historia de la misma.En definitiva, el libro me ha gustado, hay misterio e imaginación, como reza el título, aunque esperaba más de ambos.
Edogawa Rampo is the pen name of Taro Hirai, who is widely regarded as the father of Japanese mystery.
It seems he was greatly inspired by Edgar Allan Poe, hence the name "Edogawa Rampo".
In this collection of short stories, he takes us into the world of the strange and the macabre.Some of the stories are more riveting than others, but the straightforward storytelling makes them all engaging throughout.
His stories maintain more a sense of mystery and the bizarre, compared to Poe's which instill more a sense of dread and terror.
The best story to me would be 'The Human Chair'.Final rating: 3.8*
Ansiogeno e raccapricciante.La Rupe ⭐️⭐️⭐️ Dialogo tra amanti dal risvolto tragico.L'inferno Degli Specchi ⭐️⭐️ Lo scrittore analizza, con pochi passaggi, quanto sia facile scivolare dall'ossessione alla follia.I gemelli ⭐️⭐️⭐️ Reso sotto forma di un'accorata confessione di un condannato a morte, ancora una volta, il tema centrale è il delitto.La camera Rossa ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ 1\2 Protagonista di questo racconto un uomo davvero subdolo e perverso che dell'omicidio ha fatto una vera e propria vocazione, pur restando impunito sia per le istituzioni sia a livello di coscienziosità.
And this isn't the Rampo book I have already ordered through my local bookshop (and has yet to arrive).
I liked this line: "having now reached the age of twenty, he began to show a keen interest in the opposite sex," Isn't Japan great?The Twins: I don't think Rampo should use abandoned wells in more than one story.The Red Chamber: Like a bad "Roald Dahl's Tales of the Unexpected" (of which there were quite a few).Two Crippled Men: Yeah, good story.The Pasted Rag Picture: Genuine surprise with this one.
Pero en todos los relatos se pueden encontrar ciertos rasgos de estilo y de temática que nos recuerdan a su querido Edgar Alan Poe.Después de haber leído otra antología de cuentos de un autor japonés estaba esperando que siguiese ese esquema, muy del gusto oriental, de dejar los relatos en suspenso y cortarlos antes del esperado final.
Los relatos terminan y en algunos de ellos ese final es el que da todo el sentido al relato.
Curioso el gusto del autor por los espejos y los juegos de apariencias.Muy recomendable para los amantes de Poe.
What is the technical term for this?) of 'Edgar Allan Poe', Rampo doesn't feel like a rip off of the American author, but an extremely inventive creator of morbid and macabre stories, most of which will sit with you for far longer than you want.The Chair is a particularly unsettling account of voyeurism and home invasion, which will worry anyone who's had a pushy admirer.
If you do like Japanese comics, chances are you've already encountered these tales, as Rampo is rampantly plagerised and paid homage too in various formats.
Експериментите му бавно но сигурно го тласкат към загуба на разум.Близнаците – Отново мрачен криминален сюжет, разкриващ тъмнината на човешките страхове и угризения.Една изповед разкрива ужасно престъпление и още по-ужасни терзания, които превръщат престъпника в окаяна жертва.Червената стая – В търсене на перфектната заблуда за перфектното престъпление, Рампо рисува странни, но убедителни картини.
ชอบความวิปริต หมกมุนกับสิงประหลาดและอาชญากรรมของผูเขียน
ชอบความวิปริต หมกมุ่นกับสิ่งประหลาดและอาชญากรรมของผู้เขียน
Short stories set in Japan, the same type of thing as Edgar Allen Poe's. These dark and twisted tales aren't as well known as they should be. Great stuff.
The Japanese writer Hirai Taro (1894-1965) took the nom de plume Edogawa Rampo as a sign of his reverence for the work of Edgar Allan Poe, and is regarded as the first and greatest Japanese writer of mystery stories.
Because of this aspect, and because of a certain ruthlessness of view, I was often reminded of the work (for grownups!) of Roald Dahl; Saki came to mind once or twice too.I wouldn't describe Japanese Tales of Mystery & Imagination as a collection of glittering prizes, but it's a very readable introduction to a writer of some historical significance.
The first story, The Human Chair, was one of the best, but then, at the end of the story, just thrown on in the last couple of paragraphs, you find out it wasn't real, "but don't you think I'm a good writer?" What the fuck?
He did the exact same thing later in another story, The Red Chamber, which was really great, and, like The Human Chair, had a really great ending (and one of the only endings in the book that I hadn't guessed), and then, exactly the same thing.
"Haha, got you, that wasn't real, but don't you think I'm a good writer?" Again, what the fuck?!
Edogawa Rampo (say the name out loud) is one of the great literary figures in 1920's Japan. His short stories are a combination of erotica mixed with horror. Within Japan he is probably one of the most well-known writers - and rightfully so, because's he fanastic. If you like gothic drug induced sexy stories - then this is for you. A must for those Opium nightmare nights!
You will never look at an armchair the same way again.
I was expecting a more suspense and mysterious stories, but it was just okay. Fairly thrilled, fairly presented. I fancy the idea especially The Human Chair (I probably would think about the cabinet-maker every time I see a leather-covered armchair anywhere now, that was seriously spooky!), The Psychological Test and The Twins.Not that much atmospheric, but the crime plotting stuff was quite fascinating. Worth a read, somehow.
ชือหนังสือวา "สยองขวัญ" อาจไมตรงเสียทีเดียว แตนาจะเปน "ระทึกขวัญ" มากกวา เปนรวมเรืองสันทีอานเพลิน มีหักมุมหลายตอนเลยครับ
ชื่อหนังสือว่า "สยองขวัญ" อาจไม่ตรงเสียทีเดียว แต่น่าจะเป็น "ระทึกขวัญ" มากกว่า เป็นรวมเรื่องสั้นที่อ่านเพลิน มีหักมุมหลายตอนเลยครับ
A modo de introducción en la narrativa japonesa de misterio, este libro sirve de mucho. Son relatos cortos, precisos y cumple con el enunciado de su título: misterio y mucha imaginación. Ahora, no esperen encontrar relatos para morir de susto estilo Ringu. Si lo leen con esa intención les digo desde ya que van por mal camino.
Grandes cuentos de suspenso que te muestran lo retorcido de la mente humana, gustos macabros que te aterraran y te pondrán la piel de gallina. Estas historias van desde el arte sombrío hasta el romance trágico paranormal. Obsesiones y asesinos inteligentes navegan en estas paginas provocando risas macabras y sangre de victimas inocentes. También los giros paranormales en estas historias dan un toque formidable que todo lector amante del terror aplaudirán.
Author: Edogawa RampoEdogaw Aram PoGet it? Clever!
This is the second Ranpo I’ve read following The Early Cases of Akechi Kogoro, but whereas that collection is more of a conventional detective story, this one feels more versatile and accentuates Ranpo’s storytelling strengths better.
The recurring theme of the nine stories in this book are the narrative style, in which a character recounts a strange story to another character (or to the readers), before a morbid twist is revealed in the end of these stories.
(hide spoiler)]The Psychological TestA fascinating story that breaks down the flaws in the use of ‘lie detection test’ to discover a murderer.
Most are from the perspective of the perpetrator and some are thrillers that leave you wondering on what you just read.The Human Chair 4/5A very interesting way to creep you out.
It leaves you wondering on what was true and what was false.The Psychological Test 5/5This is something completely original in regards to mystery.
Ranpo goes so far as to show how the perpetrator manages to evade these tests.
Edogawa Ranpo definitely deserves to stand on the same pedestal as other famous crime/mystery/thriller authors and if that's your genre, then his name should be on your bookshelves.
Rampo's much-heralded masterpiece of short fiction (I first read it at Harlan Ellison's urging in a collection of writers' favorite scary stories), "The Human Chair," lushly combines both an inspired flight of imagistic weirdness with an iron-clad narrative construction.
I always feel anxiety reading a Japanese or Chinese narrative in English, worried about how different a transmissive medium the character is from our own phonetic writing system.
It took them five years of Rampo reading him the texts aloud and then re-checking the English sentences through his own knowledge of our Anglo-Saxon and Norman mishmash for the two to produce these few translations.
it's a great introduction to a writer few have heard of, but should read.
Rampo had a gift for story telling and picking a genre for this is difficult.
It's a collection of weird, yet wonderful stories that are well written and influenced by Poe. It's a great introduction to a writer that sadly fell through the cracks.
When you talk about the art of story telling, and weird fiction Rampo's name is never mentioned.
As we look back at classic weird fiction and horror, do yourself a favor and pick this one up.
Rampo knew how to craft a great story.
Favorite stories; The Human Chair, The Caterpillar, The Hell of Mirrors. Loved The Caterpillar, a war veteran is so disfigured and maimed that he resembles a caterpillar. I read that it was banned in nationalistic war mongering Japan, wonder why. It was also recently made into a movie.
