https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7993.Mariel_of_Redwall
I have read this book before, but it still enchants me.
This was the first Redwall book that I ever picked up.
I had heard that it was about mice, and I didn't want to read it.
Then one day, I was soooooo bored that I picked it up and was enthralled, but was reprimanded for reading this one first, and so I took Redwall out from the library.
It got better and better.
I love these books.
:)This is about Mariel and how she hunts down Gabool the Wild, in return for his imprisoning her and her father.
rip brian jacques.
So tough to choose a favorite from the Brian Jacques vault.
I think Mariel is my favorite, because she's tough as nails and basically embodies all of the qualities I admire in a heroine despite the fact that she's a mouse.
It's been at least a decade since I read this book, but I suppose my purview in writing this review is really to pay homage to Mr. Brian Jacques for providing me with some of the most valuable literary experiences I had as a child.
=====================Somewhat original review=====================This was frightfully enjoyable, old beans and beanesses. As of such, according to the logical nature of the good ol' world, I enjoyed it. Actually, I enjoyed it a great deal.The humor, battles, characters, and adventures were all vigorously delightful. Nevertheless, my favourite part is almost definitely the different dialects of the assorted animals. British English is so much more enjoyable than American English.
I'm giving all these books a 4, because they basically GOT me hooked on fantasy I think. I read all of these in elementary school, and still have fond memories floating around. The rad legendary weapons, (with the channels etched in for blood flow, which i found super hardcore). The foods, the booze, honey mead and apple wine or whatever. Come to think of it, these books might also be a little responsible for my alcoholism, too.
I had reached for the Redwall series as a break from a lot of dark fiction I had been reading recently. I found the experience was like climbing into my old playroom. At first it's warm and homey and all of my friends are there. But then I realize that I've basically played out all my old games and things are more complicated than "hare, good; sea rat, bad". So I will rate it as my childhood self might have and move on to other things.
I absolutely loved Grub. He was a hilarious little scamp! He made the entire book for me. Mariel was also quite a pleasing character with plenty of growth and sass.
Are there any good books about Mariels?
I once found an e-book online (didn't read it.
I'm worried about e-books soiling my name?)I wished I'd read this as a kid (it came out in 1990 or 1991?
Disney is a bad influence.)What is up with all of the eating?
Don't read these books if you are on a diet.
I think Jacques just wanted to have a female heroine to name after me and he stuck this little mouse in the place of a biter fighter (me!).I've read a couple of others in the series.
It was like Hemingway and the wine flowing like wine on every page.
So we make wine flow like Jesus.
I was in sixth grade at the time and I believe that while I was waiting in line, I took a spare piece of paper and created a mouse in a boat (awful quality, but 3D nonetheless).
When I got up to the front of the line, he took one look at me and said that my name must be Erin Magonagle.
I don't know for the life of me who Erin Magonagle really is, but I took it as a compliment and he signed the book I gave him my mouse-boat.
She was the unconventional Redwaller, the one that didn't quite fit in.
I've discovered that I tend to go to Brian Jacques books after I read something that I find really dumb (*cough* Divergent series *cough*).
Brian Jacques was just an incredibly masterful story teller and his characters are always interesting and you can't help but care about them.
He has a variety of interesting characters in a variety of ages, species and genders and a pleasant combination of old and new.
This was another fun swashbuckling tale and once again I can't praise this audiobook series enough for Brian Jacques' narration and a full cast.
This book was alright.I liked it more near the end.So like the last book.If it wasn't for thatI would've gave it two.You can't put two and a half on Goodreads,so I gave it three stars.
i loved this whole series! more magical than babysitters club, but also realistic descriptions and amazing adventure set.
I have heard that this series is "A Song of Ice and Fire with animals" and, with the incessant deaths, including some beloved characters, and lines like "Behind him in the swift-running weed-streaked waters of the ford, the bodies of the three who had made it to the water bounced and bobbed in a grotesque parody of life, though it was only the ripping jaws of the pike shoal which moved them." I can understand the comparison, but this is most definitely a children's series--it's very direct.
For example, every so often, I deeply mistrusted a character or situation, only to find that everything really was ok.
Mariel is a mousemaid with fierce determination to find her father and avenge their capture and torture at the hands of the evil rat ruler, Gabool the Wild, after she is thrown to sea and left for dead.
Together they set out on a perilous journey to Terramort Isle to face Gabool.
The peaceful creatures left behind at Redwall face their own adventures fighting off evil attackers.
As with all of Jacques books, Mariel is a story full of camaraderie, adventure, wonderful new characters and settings, and good triumphing over evil.
Another dark tale from the Redwall series, this one a little more solid with more of a structure throughout than some of the earlier books.
LOVED LOVED LOVED IT!!! The Redwall books are fantastic, and I'm so glad I got them on Audible back in 2016. Over the last couple days, I've been re-listening to all the Redwall series books I have and enjoying them all over again. The fun adventures in Redwall Abbey and abroad, along with relate-able and fun protagonists and villains, are perfect for all ages- I'll never get tired of these, and should I ever have children, these books will be among the first they read!
The author has definite poetic talent, but not all his poetry is truly necessary.--Character development: Some characters do grow up and mature by the novel's end.--Readers' challenge: to follow multiple plot lines between chapters and even in the same chapter: not just two or three but often more.This requires and promotes mental dexterity.--Curious alliances among species for Quest survival.--Interesting details about Abbey life, based on true (human) ecclesiastical communities.--REDWALL is a series that is sure to please--a real page-turner!
and heavy.Mariel of Redwall was actually the first Redwall book I ever read: a kind librarian at the public library allowed me to dip into the Adult section (I guess the size of these was too intimidating for the Childrens' section?), and this was an enormous hardback with an exciting cover, and the pages were dusty and stained and dog-eared and well-loved.
But no -- it was like reuniting with old friends again; just a few pages and there I was again, tiny and anxious for school to end and knowing that a summer bright and brimming with adventure was just around the corner.
The narrative bubbles over with power and charisma and unexpected shots of ringing humor, all of which only serve to underscore a story that carries enough plot lines for half a dozen exceptional novels, at least.Mariel of Redwall will pull you into its grasp and make you care about these characters, and care about them a lot, at that.
It fits alongside the other Redwall stories perfectly, giving emotionally important nods to the past while including fresh characters and significant acknowledgements of future events in the Redwall chronology, as well.
Simply put, Mariel of Redwall is a literary gem, and I am so glad to have read it.
You badass, you excellent hero you.
And she didn't fall in love with Dandin.
They were friends, really good friends, best friends who were so close and didn't fall in love.
It was such a delight for my non-romantic can-we-just-get-the-inevitable-kissing-bits-over-with self to have a girl hero being tough and awesome and having all these cool adventures.
Leading the adventures, because this was her revenge quest, okay.Also, this was (I believe) the book where Jaques lovingly paints a scene in which "blood swirled in the water from Lord Rawnblade's Bloodwrath." It's lines like that which let you know this book is for children.
I would say really good.
The author Brian Jacques is a real good storyteller.
The story is about a mouse name Mariel who is thrown out to the sea by an evil sea rat king named Gabool the wild.When Mariel is washed up on a beach, and has no memory of herself or her past.
Therefore she calls herself storm and carries around a knotted rope witch she calls Gullwacker when she finds herself in Redwall her memory comes back to her, and she made an oath that she will have revenge on Gabool for killing her father.You will have to read this book for yourself if you want to find out what happens Wot Wot!
This was given to me for my birthday when I was... 8? and it took me a while to get around to picking it up. But once I did I was genuinely sucked into the world of Redwall and spent a good part of the next four years reading Jacques's series (in a very higgledy-piggledy fashion because I was too impatient to wait for other library users and read them in order).This installment features a cool butt-kicking heroine (packaged in the form of a tiny mouse) and an old-fashioned pseudo-medieval epic adventure plot. A satisfying and entertaining read for children.
Read this one with the boys at night.
They seem to enjoy these.
I know I loved Mossflower when I was about ten years old, but as I am older now the racial profiling and the myth of redemptive violence sure stick out like sore thumbs (once they were pointed out.) The writing is overly wordy, enough so that I edit as I go in what I read out loud.
There have been several that read aloud better than this one and the boys like to hear them, so on we go with Loamhedge and hope that it's a good one.
I really enjoyed this 4th book in the Redwall series...the only complaint that I do have is that I felt like the story focused on Mariel quite a bit & less on her father, Joseph & wish that the story had focused on him as well.
It just felt like I got a little glimpse of Joseph as a character at the beginning of the book & at the very end of the story, but felt like right smack dab in the middle, it was like he completely disappeared.
Somewhat perfunctory girl-hero Jacques epic. I think this one was about the Joseph Bell mythos hinted at in the prior books. Also pirates. Started the trend of all subsequent Redwall books by taking place chronologically in between Mossflower and Redwall (or was there one about Martin's pre-Mossflower past? I can't recall anymore, but he had to wander out of somewhere.)
The Redwall series are cute little books....the mice go on campaigns...eat...defend their walls, eat...sail on ships...eat..so if you are looking for excitement and conquest...not the series for you. BUT if you enjoy..dialects resembling old English and small expeditions..like hiking up a hill and fighting searats with small spears and rock...then these are cute!!!
Another great book in the the Redwall series this book is more of mystery than the others. When the mousemaid Mariel finds her way to Redwall it seems that Martin the Warrior's spirit has been awoken once more
See my comment on "The Long Patrol" (One in the Redwall series). It'll give you an idea what I think about the series :)I loved this one, too - if you have time to kill, and want to enjoy a kid's novel - here you go. you'll thank me :)
I will here admit to being a fan girl. Brian Jacques Redwall books actually float my boat big time. It's just the rightness of them. The man was brilliant.
It was very good with an interesting story line, and it stayed with the background of Redwall.
Another great Redwall tale, this one just as good as the first! I would recommend these books to anyone who loves a good adventure with memorable characters.
