https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/824501.A_Theology_of_Liberation
This obviously makes perfect sense for the context this was written from, and doesn't erase the critical reality that Gutiérrez is a Peruvian man himself, but there was still something that felt fresh about reading such a class-focused take on liberation theology for me.
Although I can absolutely see how necessary it was for him to thoroughly explicate on the context he is writing from and I did learn a lot from the first half of the book that almost entirely focuses on doing that, it wasn't enjoyable for me to read through.
6 stars!
6 stars!
10 stars!Finally, FINALLY, a worldview that matches my own.
It was indescribably sweet to read a book that blends my views on faith and on society so wonderfully.
It took me some time to read this one.
I paused frequently just to think and reflect on what the author was saying.
I felt like I was savoring the powerful statements sprinkling every page, rolling them around in my mind like some delectable treat.
I can't even imagine how amazing it would be to see this book from an LDS perspective.
Maybe that'll be my job.
Or maybe I'm supposed to be Catholic?
It was written in the 70s and embedded in latin american politics and religion, but has huge relevance today with the increasing poverty of the poorest in the world, the complete dominance of capitalism, and the necessary Christian response to such oppression and political injustice.
It has had a huge effect on Christian theology since it was written, and much more has been written since, but the praxis is sadly still lacking in the Church world over (even if more individuals are nowadays more likely to hold such a theology).
I started reading this with basically no knowledge of catholic theology and emerged with a glimmer of understanding and respect for Gutierrez' arguments so I'll count reading this book as time well spent despite the fact that I just could not follow some of Gutierrez' lines of thought. (His lack of clarity? My unfamiliarity? Probably both)
Interesting to pair his thought with Freire's theories of liberation for education.
I agree with the theology here, but there seems no need for this quantity of jargony, abstract sociological blather.
Full of impenetrable sentences which, after re-reading, said something obvious and would have been much more forceful if more plain and terse.
I found myself looking up Bible passages in the index and reading just the exegetical parts, which were pretty good.
I might continue doing that a little longer since I just can't stand this prose.
Maybe it's an effect of translation from Spanish, or maybe that I take liberation theology for granted as it's been around for a long time.
My interest in Liberation Theology peaked when I returned to the Catholic church after my mom passed away. I had no idea that this side of catholicism existed when I was young living in the United States. I read this book while I was traveling throughout Latin America. It's academic but a good history lesson.
A book that looks to pave a radical path for the Church to follow very much connected to the Latin American experience but still relevant today. The book provides a strong argument for why Christians should give preference to the poor and work towards establishing justice and the Kingdom of God on earth. Gutiérrez provides a truly unique outlook, combining traditional theology with left wing and Marxist ideas. In this way this book is revolutionary not only because of its proposals for change but also in its ideological impact on politico-religious thought.
I believe that "A Theology of Liberation" by Gustavo Gutierrez is a prophetic call to change for Christians in the 21st century.
Gutierrez writes that the love of God can liberate the world from those systems so that a "qualitatively different" society can be constructed based not on the importance of the privileged, but on the precepts of the Kingdom of God. Many will say that this is not proper theology.
I believe that this is a misguided understanding of the entire school of liberation theology.
And what we ought to do in this world has been taught to us in the proclamation of the Kingdom of God made by Jesus Christ.
I think that Liberation Theology is the ultimate expression of where the church needs to go.
It seems that with the current pope that Liberation Theology is being placed in a better light than it has been in the past twenty years.
This is a book that demands to be read with a group, whether that be in a classroom or with folks who are willing to launch into an analysis and discussion of the ideas contained in the book.I strongly recommend reading this book in conjunction with Pedagogy of the Oppressed by PPaulo Freire.
Both of these books are difficult reading, but they are vital reading.
While Marx called religion the opiate of the people, the opposite can also be said--it can be the benzedrine of the people. This decidedly leftist take on Christianity shows how faith and activism can take hold of marginalized people and help them find their voice. It is historically important work for anyone interested in the effects of Vatican II, Central America or Christian Movements of the 20th Century.
Por fin he leído este libro y como me he encantado! Hace tiempo que mis ideas estaban yendo en la dirección de la teología de la liberación sin saberlo. Ahora que he cumplido el libro la primera vez tengo tanta gratitud por el trabajo y desempeño de Gustavo Gutierrez y todas las personas que han contribuido a la creación de la teología de la liberación, que es una gran bendición para la Iglesia y el mundo.
This is a classic!!! I agree with it and I think our new Pope is also a proponent of this Theology!!! If he would just open up the discussion of Women's Ordination!!! I am hopeful that women deacons may be in our near future!!!
I really enjoyed this. The prose becomes a bit... 1960s-ish throughout the book. But altogether it provides a well thought out argument for a revolutionary and militant Catholic theology.
But, what I am 100% in agreement with is the underlying thesis, introduced early on, that Christian belief should lead to action -- praxis -- that is faithful to that belief.
From page 81: "From the viewpoint of faith, the motive which in the last instance moves Christians to participate in the liberation of oppressed peoples and exploited social classes is the conviction of the radical incompatibility of evangelical demands with an unjust and alienating society." I'm not sure what, exactly, is disagreeable about that statement regardless of what your theological hairsplitting tells you to believe.
Since its publication I think the theology has been built upon in positive ways.
Gutierrez's piercing insight regarding the church and injustice is helpful in thinking through the relationship between theology, church, and Christian life.
People I know who have had the opportunity to study with Gutierrez in his native language find the English rendering of his work lacking compared to his eloquence.
The book is well written and carefully lays out each point.
That being said this is a terrible representation of Christian.
It is works like this that make Protestants often call Catholics an apostate church.
It is not merely (though a large part of it is abuse of the doctrine of justification.) I read many portions of the book to my roommate and he asked where my heresy stamped is.
He reverses the order of faith and charity.
He calls for charity towards those impoverished.
I hope this is not an accurate portrayal of what Catholics actually believe.
Challenging on every level--intellectually, spiritually, politically, and practically. I especially love that, after 300 pages of deep analysis, Gutiérrez ends by saying, "To paraphrase a well-known text of Pascal, we can say that all the political theologies, the theologies of hope, of revolution, and of liberation, are not worth one act of genuine solidarity with exploited social classes."
Well, it took 3 months to read it. There were so many pages that after reading two or three times I thought: 'Maybe I should just memorize this.'This is going on my small pile of books for me to read again in 2019, right next to Christina Cleveland's 'Disunity in Christ'.I will say this: No wonder this is a classic. My only regret is waiting until I was 54 to read it.
A classic to build the paradigm give an easy to resd approach to let me understand what is liberation theology. Believe there is more elaboration on some views by author in this 15th anniversary edition
Get ready to plunge into the Latin American religious world if you're not familiar with it. This book is an eye opener and makes a great point and case for all people who appreciates a Christianity that stands up for and gives itself to the poor and needy.
A book of profound hope.
A useful primer on Liberation theology, the material is dense, and can be overly repetitive at some points, but the primary tenets of Liberation Theology are explained as well as some of their basic hermeneutical presuppositions.
The cultural relativism inherent in liberation theology undercuts any objective hermeneutic for liberation theology's exegesis since it is culturally and politically determined from its starting point by assuming that the Exodus is prescriptive of political liberation rather than descriptive of Christ rescuing Israel from their bondage to sin.
I have a degree in Christian The*logy and found it difficult to follow.
People who are poor and do not have a lot of time to read in general will struggle immensely with this book.
The other critique is the author's belief that the response to capitalism is a Latin American version of socialism, period.
He is fairly uncritically Marxist, and I view this as historically bereft of reason due to the absolute anti-Christian and broadly genocidal history of Socialist countries.
The author would do well to learn about other forms of potential governance before throwing in his lot w/ the Socialists.
A very difficult read.
As well, I needed a lot more context for what he was talking about.
I needed more stories and concrete examples.
I found it very difficult to enjoy.
The section on God as Creator-Redeemer was excellent.
I needed his overall line of thinking to be contrasted to what is wasn't and why it's different.
This is full of really good sections, but I'm lost when it comes to what exactly I am supposed to do having read the book.
I need something tangible.
This book, although magnificent, is hard work to read for a Protestant/Pentecostal man from the 1st world.
His context is so different from anything I am used to, even as a sympathizer with liberation theology.
In some ways, A Theology of Liberation is the theological equivalent to the historical fiction of War and Peace--not in length, but in scope.
Both take long periods of concentration and focus to work one's way through, but there are nuggets every so often that make the whole book worth it.Not a book to read if you are looking for quick-fixes, or can't stomach critique of the way things are.
This is the handbook of liberation theology, containing the early history of the movement and the clearest statement of what it really is from the beginning. I first read the book in a political science class examining Gutierrez as a political revolutionary, and recently read it as a work of revolutionary theology. After the second reading, I wonder if Gutierrez would recognize the movement he helped give birth to.
After reading both Boff and Boff Introducing Liberation Theology and this book I am still confused about what exactly a "preferential option for the poor" is. Does it just mean that given the choice between helping rich people and helping poor people you choose poor people? I am also confused about what we in the first world can do to further the goal of liberation. Maybe I needed this to be a "mediated read".
A brilliant treatment and an attempt at reorienting theology to be a discipline that speaks and acts with the oppressed in history for the sake of liberation. God is fundamentally for the oppressed and will liberate history through the oppressed. This reading flips on its head classic Western conceptions of power and authority in a helpful and challenging way.
What is the role of Christianity in the world?Behind this seemingly simple question is a rich topic of prayerful inquiry that Gustavo Gutierrez explores fastiduously. Although overly academic at times, many passages of this book are richly challenging to people of faith. A must-read for anyone trying to understand Christianity's role in social justice.
