https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/443103.Moominland_Midwinter
This book has the best footnotes.A displaced hedgehog is a hedgehog that has been removed from its home against its will and not even had time to pack its toothbrush.And a bit later on, when we are so sad because squirrel is dead, the most comforting footnote I've ever read:In case the reader feels like having a cry, please take a quick look at p. 126.
For instance, some brains are wont to tell their soul/body vessels that in the face of such muckity-mucked-up global complexity to seek solace or refuge or even wisdom in the simple is irresponsible; that complexity must be confronted with complexity; that it is our duty as primates on the intellectual pinnacle to figure out every last detail of our infinitely long queue of problems, and to come up with solutions, before we can enjoy the simplicity of our gods-given natures; that we need to read complicated adult books rather than so-called children’s books as a means of understanding our conditions.
Just as I don’t know how we survive, I don’t know why we continue to operate under the directive of seriously flawed adult logic and over-educated instruction manuals when the clear-eyed (& anarchic) wisdom of childhood (& even old age) is intuitively the better course.
'"When one's dead, then one's dead," said Too-Ticky kindly.
"This squirrel will become earth all in his time.
And still later on there'll grow trees from him, with new squirrels skipping about in them.
Do you think that's so sad?" "Perhaps not," said Moomintroll.'Granted, I've only just finished reading it, but this might just be my favourite book.
Towards the end, when Moomintroll's long and lonely ordeal is finally over, someone suggests that he should put a glass over a budding crocus to protect it overnight.
No, he says: "Let it fight it out.
All things are so very uncertain, and that's exactly what makes me feel reassured.Had the urge to reread this because it kept popping up to my bookstagram feed, so thanks, guys. It was even better than I remembered, and a perfect December read.
Cynical comfort reading. Jansson's stories won't warm the depths of mid-winter, but may encourage you to accept that the frozen snowy dark is temporary and not entirely meritless if one remains open to its potential. People also. Most of them are irritating in some way or another, but it'll be okay. They're probably also well-meaning in some way.
Luin kirjan uudelleen joulun aikaan. Ihana ja lumoava Taikatalvi <3.
I swear this book changed me in a fundamental way.
It's solemn, and cold, and lonely.
Sometimes it made me sad, just because of its solemnity.
It's very different to anything else I've ever read, perhaps because it's Finnish.
Like new-fallen snow is it beautiful.
Before this book I had only a very vague awareness that there were places in the world where the sun did not rise in winter.
By this for your small children and show them a new way of seeing the world.
Also steal it from them when they're done, and read it yourself.
There's a fab essay by Maria Popova on this book on Brain Pickings today, encompassing "the paradox of active surrender." Highly recommended.***Found my childhood copy of this while cleaning out an old box last night, and to my delight I enjoyed it just as much as a grown up. My favourite of all the moomin books, because of the haunting quietness. On my must-read list for all children.
Book #5 in #CramaThon2015.I didn't DNF this the first time I tried reading it because I didn't like it, but more because I wasn't in the mood for it at the time. Glad I picked it up again during CramaThon, because I really enjoyed it!(Finish a book you DNF'ed.)
I want some warm syrup now..
Alltså wow. Hur fantastiskt var inte detta? Förstår verkligen inte hur jag har klarat mig i 21 år utan att ha läst Mumin. Men nu är min första muminbok avklarad och jag längtar sannerligen efter att få läsa fler. Boken är skriven med ett så vackert språk och karaktärerna är helt underbara. Tove Jansson beskriver naturen på ett så poetiskt men ändå äkta sätt att jag tror att det är jag, och inte Mumintrollet, som upplever vintern för första gången. Den här boken fick mig att må så bra. Åh.
I love all the Moomin books, but this one especially. It's a small existentialist masterpiece. Who but Tove Jansson can blend menace and whimsy in such a winning way? I'm plotting an omnibus review of the whole series when I've finished rereading them all (two more books to go after this one).
,
Tästä tuli oma lemppari muumikirjojen joukossa. Esi-isä <3
Nicht, dass mir etwas wirklich schlimmes passiert wäre, aber ich war die ganze Zeit genervt und gestresst und etwas unglücklich.
Trost suchte ich bei den Mumins und wurde mit "Winter im Mumintal" direkt etwas aufgemuntert.
Wie Mumin den Winter, den er normalerweise ja sonst verschläft, erlebt fand ich wunderbar, gerade, dass er so grantig war und nichts mit dem Schnee anzufangen wusste.
Ganz im Gegensatz zu Klein Mü, die unbedingt aus dem buschigen Schwanz eines toten Eichhörnchens einen Muff nähen will, damit sie nicht mehr so friert.
Ach, ich liebe die Mumins einfach.
Outside, the cold went up against the night and the moonlight shone through all the green and red windowpanes.Tell me about snow, said Moomintroll and sat down in his father's sun-bleached garden chair.
You think it's cold, but if you build a house from it it's warm.
Nothing is certain.In which Moomintroll wakes up to what looks like a dead, cold winter world, and gradually discovers so much about it.
One of the best things written about winter and growing up, and, knowing that Too-Ticky is based on Jansson's girlfriend, quite a sweet understated love story as well.
This was a book that was gifted to me for my birthday after I said I hadn't read any of the Moomin series, I got a fantastic looking hardcover edition and thoroughly enjoyed reading it on the train. A quick read, I felt that even though I hadn't read any of the other books in the series, I was still able to follow the characters. Also added a touch of frost to a very very warm day. Great read.
Absolūta sajūsma!!Tāds mīlīgs dzīves gudrību krājums. Melanholiķa bībelīte.
Suosikkini Muumi-kirjoista <3
And then when everything’s quiet and white and the nights are long and most people are asleep — then they appear." — Too-Ticky, Moominland MidwinterIn Moominworld, misfits come out during the bleakest, coldest time of year while others hibernate.
Moomintroll loosens up as the story progresses, admitting grudgingly that there are times where it's best “if things aren’t so easy.” Moomintroll's misery stands in stark contrast to his relatively chipper mood and risk-taking ways in the other books in the series.Overall, Jansson brings a much darker tone to Moominland Midwinter.
4 StarsThis has never been my favorite episode with the show, but it's nevertheless such a cute story and Mummitrollet is home.
a charming tale of winter.From Brainpickings: Tove Jansson (1914–2001) is among the most imaginative, important, and influential children's book creators of all time, an artist and writer of unparalleled creative vision and great sensitivity to life's ineffable nuances.
A recipient of the prestigious Hans Christian Andersen Award, she had the courage to turn down Walt Disney and build her own creative empire.
From her beloved Moomins characters to her spectacular vintage illustrations for Alice in Wonderland and The Hobbit, her stories exude the metaphorical magic of Milne's Winnie-the-Pooh tales, the fanciful whimsy of Baum's Oz world, the contemplative introspection of Saint-Exupéry's The Little Prince, and the enchanting symbolism of Carroll's Wonderland.
Magical, haunting, witty, writing of such subtle depth and beauty - how glorious is this book!
The characters almost spring forth from the pages into one's heart, and the illustrations are perfect.
If you have read this as a child, images from this story will stay with you for a lifetime.
If you are an adult newly come to this treasure, you will still be able to appreciate its genius.Looking back over the decades since I first came to own my precious boxed set, I think Tove's writing prepared me for my lifelong love of science fiction - because in a way the Moomins and their friends are aliens living in a very different world, and one enters it with surprise, wonder, and a growing sense of love even for the little creeps.
my absolute favorite of the Moomin books.
This time I read it entirely in the summer house, which has emerged triumphant in winter in much the same way Too Ticky takes over the Bathing Hut in the book.
"here come the dumbthe lonely and the rumthe wild and the quietbang goes the drum"Too Ticky is the character I would most like to be...
I suppose Little My is my favorite, but I would rather actually model myself on Too Ticky.
And I want a red winter hat that I can turn inside out when it's spring and it will become sky blue.
More strange and existential than the others, this might be my favorite.
The meditations on winter and the nature of the creatures that choose to dwell in the cold and dark were gorgeous.
And though much of this was lost on my children, the 7YO seemed to appreciate the melancholy and loneliness of Moomintroll being the only one of his family awake, while the 3YO liked the little moments with Little My or the skiing hemulen.Re-read-aloud 2015: The kids and I loved this again.
So odd and dreamy, and her descriptions of the ice and snow and the spring coming slowly are so gorgeous.
Moomin wakes up from his hibernation, but it is still winter! He discovers a whole "new" world. This one is really fun and the some of the illustrations are very cool.
A good wintry tale, another fun Moomin story. :) Little My is the best. XD
Vissa avsnitt går att läsa som små texter, som den om ekorren med den vackra svansen som möter sin död i den vackra kylan, eller den då Mumintrollet försummar sin enda chans att lära sig åka skidor, och endast kommer kunna göra det utan att ramla och skämmas i sina drömmar.
En fantastisk bok om att vara i ett skifte, ensam, och lära sig ta sig igenom det själv, men ändå kunna knyta vänskapsband och lita på människor omkring sig.
Tämä kirja se vain paranee jokaisella lukemiskerralla.
Huomaamattani käytin kolminkertaisen ajan unisadun lukemiseen ja kirjaa hurahti kerralla eteenpäin kymmeniä sivuja.
Muumipeikko herää kesken talviunen, ensimmäisenä muumina koko hänen perheessään.
Lopulta löytyy kuin löytyykin seuraa, niin Pikku Myystä, Tuu-Tikista kuin urheilevasta Hemulistakin.
Talvi voittaa Muumipeikon viimein puolelleen ja kirjan lopussa Muumipeikko viettää ihanaa kevätpäivää haikaillen talvipakkasten, jäisen meren ja yksinäisyyden perään.Tämän lukukerran jälkeen jäin pohtimaan, mitä filminauhaa Muumimamma poltti kuistilla?
Tämän se tekee, hyvä kirja, saa uppoutumaan niin syvälle, että sitä takertuu ihan pieniin yksityiskohtiin.
Ne alkavat elää omaa elämäänsä päässäsi ja pian huomaat taas lukevasi kirjaa uudelleen, jospa jossain olisi kysymykseen vastaus.
Koko muumilaakso on muuttunut oudoksi ja sitä kansoittaa otukset, jotka eivät näyttäydy kesällä.
Lisäksi talvella tuntuu vallitsevan eri säännöt, kuin kesällä.
Kaunishäntäinen orava tulee herättäneeksi myös Pikku Myyn repimällä hänen makuupussistaan villaa pesäänsä varten.
Toisin kuin Muumipeikko, Myy taas ottaa talvesta ilon irti syöksyen rohkeasti jäälle ja rinteisiin- puhumattakaan torvea toitottavasta Hemulista, jonka slalomvillapaita on niin räikeä, että sen katseleminen koskee silmiin.Kirjassa on monta kohtaa, jotka ovat jääneet elämään sitaatteina.
Talven ankaruutta on käsitelty upeasti ja Muumipeikon hätäännys, pitkästyminen, ikävöinti, ruikutus ja nolous tuodaan myös esille: kaikki talvessa ei ole taianomaista ja säkenöivää.
Taikatalvi jäi kuitenkin lukukokemuksena jotenkin rikkonaiseksi, hieman hajanaiseksi.
Ehkä se jäi Muumilaakson marraskuun varjoon.
