https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9888775-catching-jordan
What did I think of Catching Jordan?
It has romance, humor, love, loss, friendship, family - it has something for absolutely everyone.
I connected with Jordan immediately - she made me laugh and cry.
The chemistry in Catching Jordan is phenomenal.
Not just the love chemistry either.
This is the first book I've read that has made me laugh to the point of tears (I'm so glad I wasn't in public) and now that it's over, my heart is so filled that I desperately want to hug this book, marry it, and have it's babies!Catching Jordan is not simply a love story.
Last page impression: Fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun... (feel free to keep going..)OK, i got tired of repeting it (as writing on ipad is so not fun) and I guess that you got my point by now: This book was so damn fun to read!Actual Review:Ha-haa, what a fun way to spend the evening.This book was amazingly cute, and the characters too adorable for words. F
In fact it’s what caught my attention back in April when I saw it for the first time.Also there’s something about that line between the boy and the girl – maybe it’s not supposed to have a meaning, but the book is all about crossing the line – with the guy Jordan liked, with her friends, with her family, her choices and options, and so on.Jordan:
As I found out, Jordan is the girl, and it’s funny because before reading the book I was so sure that Jordan was the guy in the story, LOL.Anyways, I really liked her.
I liked the storyline of the book, the uniqueness of Jordan's character (liked her honesty but she lacked a bit of maturity), the football references (even though I'm not a football fan), Jordan's relationships with the guys on her team (I loved that her best friends were guys who loved her and looked out for her), her best friend Sam Henry (even though he was a wussy tramp at times), development of friendships with girls, her supportive brother, and resolution in relationship with her dad.
Bottomline, I really didn't connect with the characters and the more I think about it, I didn't care much for them or the story development.
I'm a night reader. After I'm done for the day, I take a shower, lay in bed, and read for about an hour. But not with this book. I stayed up. I didn't write the next day. I read.The story, the characters, it hooked me. And I developed a crush on Sam Henry.Dear Miranda,You could write a book solely about Sam Henry and I would read it. Just sayin'.From,Katie
Catching Jordan does not do justice to the YA genre, lurve triangles, college football or girls who aspire to play traditional "boy" sports.
For a better, I mean completely different league better, book about a girl who plays football, pick up Dairy Queen and forget this one.
In Dairy Queen, protagonist DJ Schwenk struggles with the reality of a girl playing a tough, physical boy sport.
it is difficult for me to believe that a girl would be recruited by (and play at) a Division I-A school.
(I'm sick. I'm lazy. Go away.)So this is She's The Man...... meets High School Musical...(scratch that for BOY)... meets The Vampire Diaries...... and most of the time I was just like...... but sometimes IT WAS like this.Overall: forgettable.Surprisingly, the sports/college talk part of this book is what I liked the most.
I really didn’t feel more than a minimal like for this book, which is pretty disappointing considering how much I was looking forward to it.In this story, we meet Jordon Woods who plays football for Hundred Oaks High.
but there's other ways to achieve that, and hitting/punching is not one of them.Overall, the concept was great and I liked the whole theme of girl football player trying to beat the odds in addition to the teenage concepts as they relate to friendship, loyalty and first love… All very promising, but when the final play was delivered I sort of let my poms poms fall to the floor feeling disappointed in the story.
(forgive me for my bad poetry skills)And this book was so baddddit hurt my brainI wish I could write
I consider myself a sport enthusiastic, the kind who watches it, never plays it so I got into this book with the same excitement I'd read the Dairy Queen series.
I'm no Sherlock but I think the resolution was very clear since the very beginning so it did bothered me how much time it took Jordan to realize not what she had to do but when to do it.
I didn't like how she treated those girls in the beginning the same way I didn't like how the book portrayed cheerleaders, as stupid, shallow or mean.
What can I say, I can relate to this book.... Yes people, there are girls out there that play football. And yes, they're good. I was starting right tackle and middle linebacker for my team leading in tackles and sacks. I guess what bothers me about some of the reviews is they're bashing the book for being unrealistic. Can a girl play football? Yes. Is it likely a girl could quarter back for a D-1 school? Probably not, but last time I checked this was called FICTION!!!!fic·tion (fik-shuhn)noun 1.
Yes people, there are girls out there that play football.
Isn't reading improbable or unlikely situations what makes reading fun?Standing at almost 5'll myself, growing up an undoubtable tom-boy, loving sports, and having more guy friends than girl friends makes me feel a kinship to Jordan.
Jordan gets a lot of attention from playing football and has a bond with the guys that the other girls don't.
It's not Jordan's fault that she relates more to the guys than girls.
You learn that she likes "guy stuff", despises being a "girly-girl" and gets along better with the opposite sex.
Honestly, for a much cuter, much funnier, much more poignant, non-shallow version of this story, try Dairy Queen. Plus, there are cows!
Such a great comfort book for rainy days (like today here).I looked at Catching Jordan with my "snarky eyes" - if there is such a thing - for a good part of it, to be honest.
Ok, she is probably the most oblivious girl ever to walk the planet in a few millennia in matters of the heart but, aside from that, her voice is real, funny, honest and even though I am not sure I can relate to a teen quarterback, she's one of those characters that are instantly likable, if only for the fact that she's not afraid to stand up for what she believes in.
She is one badass girl who plays rugby better then any guy in her team, she is the only female member of her team and she is one of the guys.As a result, her best friends are all guys, they appreciate her, and watch her back in a way.Even though at first it sounds pretty unbelievable that a girl could be so much better then guys at sports, especially if you consider the fact that the female body is naturally builted weaker then male, there are things explained in this book.Jordan comes from family of sport champions.
My friend had told me: Don't read this. I hated it - it was so bad.Well, jokes on her, because I read it anyways and actually quite enjoyed it.It was definitely not what I had expected from the blurb, and yes, it did kind of read like a Wattpad story (which it was, so) but it was an enjoyable read nonetheless. In the long run, it did have a good message, and I loved how the main character was so self-empowering and independent.-Don't know why, but I felt like rereading this.
But, I think girls should also be feminine, should be respected and treated like ladies.
I wish I could have liked Jordan more, which is one of the reasons I kept reading.
What I also thought was sad was that no one actually respected Jordan.
Which was part of my problem; they treated her like a guy not a girl.
I liked that Jordan had a goal and was doing all she could to achieve it.
Is it to be a strong girl you have to give up all feminine qualities and act like a guy?
It was a bit soap opera like, cliche, and our leads seemed ridiculous with some of their actions to the point I couldn't stop rolling my eyes.
CharactersJordan a tomboy football player who thinks anyone who portrays a remotely feminine quality is a slut or not worth her time.
Jordan just was judgemental to the core and honestly, I'm not sure she was overly talented at football.
Sexism due to fact Jordan is a female football player and a super special snowflake.
Everyone bar Jordan is a slut in this book.
4.5 StarsJordan Woods is a senior in high school, captain and quarter-back of the foot-ball team, she's also a girl.
Her father is an NFL star player (although, he doesn't approve of Jordan playing), her brother plays in college, and all her friends are the players on her team.
Jordan also knows exactly how the guys on her team treat girls, hooking-up and using them for sex, with no regard for their feelings.
He's also a quarter-back and now on Jordan's team.
Add to that Jordan suddenly finds out why Henry's last girl-friend broke up with him, and now she's really confused.
I was afraid the account of an almost 18 year old girl discovering love for the first time would come across as unconvincing or implausible, but I could completely relate to Jordan and her problems and feelings.
I was completely caught off guard by the genius development and change in the romance about midway through.
I'll definitely be reading all other titles by Kenneally, if for nothing else but to catch a glimpse of Jordan (view spoiler)[and Henry (hide spoiler)] again.For more reviews, visit my blog:["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
“It’s not that guys aren’t interested in me, because they are, it’s that most of the guys I know are either:1. Shorter than me;2. Pansies;3. On my team;4. All of the above.”   So you read the synopsis? Figure it's a straight forward YA Jordan and Ty hook up and HEA? Catching Jordan caught me off guard by how much I liked it, and with its twists and turns!First of all let me say as an Aussie I HAVE NO IDEA about NFL! Only what I see on movies and books and sometimes ESPN, but I still liked this
One of the MAIN reason Jordan isn't happy is she's starting to feel all "girly" like have "feelings" and stuff.She doesn't even know how to kiss let alone being a virgin.
Ty- I really started to like Ty when he first came, I even felt sorry for him and then became all boyfriendy and it pissed me off - but yeah that's what was supposed to happen so well done there Miranda!I could easily see this as a TV show lolThe one major problem I had with this book was (view spoiler)[ Jordan is nearly 18 yrs old, she kisses Ty on a sat night then freaks out, and come monday she loses her Virginity to him?
Since Jesse's Girl is due for publication, I thought this would be the prefect time to re-read the entire Hundred Oaks series, and my Book Depository voucher sold me on purchasing physical copies.
She still has insecurities and things that she feels like she must time from other people, such as her love for writing and poetry.
Sam and Jordan were beautiful from page 1, and even without knowing what happens, you could see the romantic and emotional connection between them from the very beginning.As with basically all YA contemporaries, romance plays a large role in this book.
I simply adored this book; it left me with a huge goofy smile on my face, tears in my eyes from laughing so much and just tore my heart into tiny shreds.Jordan is the star quarterback for the Hundred Oaks Red Raiders, her dream is to play for Alabama; the best football team in the country.
I would love to have friends like these guys!I still can’t believe that this is Miranda Kenneally’s debut novel, she has written such a wonderful story full of fun, charming characters and special friendships.
I liked the ending and the whole story, which I will not disclose because spoilers.
Henry is fabulous and I love his relationship with Jordan.Tyler is pretty cool.
I have nothing against him, but (view spoiler)[I am glad Jordan woke up and decided he wasn't the man for her.
(hide spoiler)]Jordan's dad: He was kind of a jerk, but I respect his reasons.The rest of her family was awesome!I would rec this book, but only if you're in a light mood because otherwise, I get the feeling this book would get on your nerves :PAnd those are my two cents!
Let us start with the positives, shall we?Jordan is one of the most kick ass quarterbacks in Tennessee.
Seriously, it got to the point where I pictured pelvic thrusts and "SCHWING!" every time the guys mentioned a girl.)Also, I love that her dad was an NFL player.
And they totally mention the University of Michigan (GO BLUE!)But our straight-up jock, never-been-kissed and doesn't-have-the-slightest-idea-how main character abandons all hesitation when new, hot, one-dimensional Ty Green shows up on the field as her back-up quarterback.
I just feel like Jordan was not a very solid character.
After 280 pages, I like to feel like I KNOW a character.
I really like the characters in this book.
I always admire sporty female characters who can play with guys.
Her best friends are guys: Henry, JJ, and Carter..
these guys have the sense of humor, and they're very protective of Jordan.
But her ultimate best friend is Sam Henry.
As much as possible she doesn't want to date any of her teammates because she might lose her concentration.This story is so cute and it definitely put a smile on my face.
(view spoiler)[I always knew Sam Henry was for her and I got it right.
:-)I loved Miranda Kenneally's characters.
I am from the South where football is king, and I watch at least two games a weekend (LSU and Saints, Woot!), but even so, I did have concerns going into reading this book.
If the author would find that perfect balance of letting us into Jordan's world as a girl quarterback, yet still be a fun "girl book," for lack of a better description.
As you can probably tell from the fact that I stayed up reading all night, Ms. Kenneally rocked that balance.
I can't wait to see what Miranda Kenneally does next.
It reminded me just how much I loved Catching Jordan and made me want to go back and re-read it.
I don't know if it's the sweet taste of summer, refreshingly different way of approaching a YA romance, or the insanely cool characters and the fantastic relationship between them, but I absolutely couldn't get enough of this book.
As much as I loved the great plot line and sweet romance, what I liked the most about this book was the in-depth characters and the way they interacted with each other.
I want more books like Catching Jordan, and can't wait for Miranda Kenneally's next novel -Stealing Parker -to be out!
It was interesting reading a book about a girl who's strong, tenacious, and who is also QB of her football team, but sometimes it really threw me because her "voice" reads just like a guy.
And I also feel like Jordan's character fell apart once she got in a relationship.
Besides that, while I feel like Catching Jordan had a great start, towards the middle and end I didn't feel like the book was going anywhere.
I'll admit that it may not be the most creative writing style, but it was simplistic and compelling hard to put this book down.
2,5okudum ama nasıl okudum, ne sebeple okudum, hadi okumaya başladım ama neden bitirme zahmetine girdim
Buy this book on: |  Amazon  |  Barnes and Noble  |  Audible  |  BookDepository (FREE WORLDWIDESHIPPING)  |3.5 out of 5 stars (Please read my rating system further below). I'm reading the series from start to finish now!! Wow!!! Go me!!! This book was all time goals. Sports and romance are definitely my cup of tea! Another super fast read from Miranda Kineally that had me swooning. My rating system: (I do use half stars.)5 - I do not use the 5 star. Not because a book might not be worthy, but be
Buy this book on: | 
|3.5 out of 5 stars (Please read my rating system further below).
I'm reading the series from start to finish now!!
This book was all time goals.
Another super fast read from Miranda Kineally that had me swooning.
My rating system: (I do use half stars.)5 - I do not use the 5 star.
(A 4 star rating is the highest rating I've ever given a book.)3 - I enjoyed the book, but there we're flaws that made me enjoy it less.2 - I finished the book, but there were too many flaws for me to enjoy it.1 - I could not finish the book, and I probably did not finish it....
Fun Football Story!Young Adult Sports Romance is my kind of genre, and I loved this book.Jordan Woods is a high school senior who's captain and quarterback of the football team.
She's crushed that her father ignores her football career (thinking she has no business playing this "man's" game), and her rocky college recruiting process seems realistic to me.Jordan, or "Woods" as her teammates call her, is just like one of the guys.
It's a purely platonic relationship, or so Jordan thinks.The funniest part of the story is when Jordan and Henry have to take care of an electronic baby for a week as a Home Ec assignment."Okay," Mrs. Bonner says.
