https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48987.By_Grand_Central_Station_I_Sat_Down_and_Wept
and i would smoke a joint and lie on my tummy and record my huge earthshattering thoughts.when i was nineteen, i had a journal.
this seemed too self-indulgent - too emotionally bloated.too much "why use one word when you can use ten and still say nothing??" going on.Not God, but bats and a spider who is weaving my guilt, keep the rendezvous with me, and shame copulates with every September housefly.
although there still isn't any shame copulating with any houseflies here at my place.come to my blog!
Aun sin tener la cultura necesaria para exprimir todo el sentido a las múltiples referencias, relaciones y citas que incluye, la obra puede disfrutarse como lo que es, una dramática y lírica plegaria por un amor complicado.
Y pese a tanto sufrimiento, Smart expone claramente su preferencia por esta destructora cara del amor si la alternativa es la mera indiferencia.
Pues no querría yo sentir una pasión tan desgarradora, ni que la sintieran por mí, no querría ser yo, no soy, esta yonqui del sentimiento que rehúsa cualquier método de desintoxicación y capaz de decir: 
This book is written in poetic prose and is condidered by some critics to be a masterprice in the genre.
I read as much as I could about the relationship of Elizabeth Smart and George Barker beforehand, and it enhanced my understanding and appreciation of the book.In the 1930's, Elizabeth Smart was browsing a London bookstore on Charring Cross Road, when she came across a book of poetry written by British poet George Barker, and instantly fell in love with the man, never having met him, and declaring him the love of her life.
Anyway, Karen bought this for me, and Elizabeth was interested in the book when she saw it (I think, I wasn't there) and she was interested to see what I thought of it.
When I was reading this book I don't know if Karen reminded me that Elizabeth wanted me to write a review, or I just had the book with me and I pointed at the cover and said Elizabeth wants to read this book because (here I did a very funny voice, it's nothing like Elizabeth's real voice, it's my token I'm imitating someone voice) "My name is Elizabeth, and I'm Smart.
The first piece in this book is an autobiographical-ish story of the authors love for the poet George Barker.
Girl, he's not worth it.
Elizabeth Smart was in a longterm relationship with the poet George Barker, even having four children with him.
Published in 1945, it is one of the earlier examples of "poetic prose," and the mention on the back cover that it is like Anais Nin and Djuna Barnes makes me want to read both of them; in my reading experience it is closest to Jeannette Winterson, one of the authors I love and adore.That said, I don't think this would be for everyone.
It is FLOWERY and DRAMATIC and would almost feel like teenaged angst except the metaphors and allusions are very literary and almost over my head at times.
I am shot with wounds which have eyes that see a world of sorrow, always to be, panoramic and unhealable, and mouths that hang unspeakable in the sky of blood. See a woman who is part of an unending love triangle, feel the music of her "love language" through this prose poem, follow the staccato of her thoughts, know that this is about love and its melancholy. Unrequited love? No. Unappreciated love, I would say. Love that is not true. But who I am to judge the confounding love the author share
See a woman who is part of an unending love triangle, feel the music of her "love language" through this prose poem, follow the staccato of her thoughts, know that this is about love and its melancholy.
(Although, it is important to note that secrecy was most likely a necessary choice, given the times, especially since there is a scene in the book, when the author is stopped at the Arizona state border and interrogated, because she is an unmarried woman attempting to cross state lines with a married man).
If you're a lover of the prose poem, chances are, you will love this.
By Grand Central Station I Sat Down and Wept nearly did me in.
Fortunately for me, By Grand Central Station is a novella of only 100 pages, followed in this volume by a sequel (also around 100 pages) called The Assumption of the Rogues and Rascals.
In The Assumption, our easily excitable heroine is now on her own, figuring how to move forward with a broken heart and, most interestingly, how to write about it.
I can see why this book has stayed in print all these years—its portrait of a woman of heart and mind is unique and quite obviously groundbreaking.
Cuando empiezas a estudiar literatura en la universidad siempre hay un profe que te cuenta que las fronteras entre géneros literarios son muy difusas, que a veces no se puede distinguir tan claramente a qué género pertenece una obra.
Luego también te encuentras otro profe (o puede que sea el mismo) que te cuenta que las mujeres tienen una forma de escribir diferente a la de los hombres.
Pero tampoco es que te importe mucho y sigues leyendo y por fin aprendes a leer de una forma nueva, a medio camino entre la lectura evasiva (que practicabas antes de la universidad) y la lectura tomando notas en vistas de escribir un tedioso trabajo (que practicabas en la universidad).
No es un libro que recomendaría a cualquier lector.
Está escrito de forma sublime y de gran intensidad, y esto puede arrastrar al lector como no lo ha hecho nadie, pero también apabullar de forma que no se conecte o incluso parecer demasiado.
Yo creo que es una obra bellísima (sobre todo las partes tres y cuatro, ciertos párrafos sobre la Segunda Guerra Mundial muy reconocibles ya en la cultura popular y la última parte que le da nombre).
Además, es muy interesante para cualquier estudiante curioso, está lleno de referencias y se agradece un montón las notas del traductor al final.
Written by Elizabeth Smart (1913-1986), this tells her passionate love affair with a married man, poet George Baker (1913-1991).
The book barely describes Baker but it is able to impart the variety of emotions that a woman-in-love with a married man feels.
It's a bit too much to read an emotional poetry about how a woman feels in full 128 pages.
Oh no.I am glad to have read the pioneer book in the prose poetry genre.
And the subject matter--obsessive love--is conveyed with the sort of honesty that's humbling ("honesty" actually feels pretty pallid when applied to Elizabeth Smart, but I can't think of a word that means "beyond honesty").
On the other hand (and I realize this sort of criticism is like being confronted with a particular type of animal--say a horse--and whining that I wish it were a cat), I found the book's almost entirely internal focus, its total lack of description of Smart's lover, maddening.
Which makes the obsessiveness of Smart's feelings for him hard to get behind.

Abro una página al azar. Abra por donde abra cualquier frase es pura poesía. Aunque no coincido con esa forma tan absorbente de ver el amor, que anula y destruye (me ha recordado a algunos versos e ideas de Sylvia Plath) lo cierto es que sus imágenes, sus metáforas, sus planteamientos, son tan bellos y de una calidad tan excelente que puedo decir que he encontrado un nuevo libro de cabecera.Si os apetece, podéis leer mi reseña completa en http://elmomentoderaquel.blogspot.com...
Too often I felt like I was looking at a Magic Eye picture, struggling to make out the actual story and meaning in the confusion of language.
Nevertheless there are some - many - beautiful lines, a few of which immediately jumped out at me as being recognisable from Smiths songs, especially those used in 'What She Said' (a song particularly close to my heart because, as I may have mentioned before, for part of my A Level English coursework I wrote a dramatic monologue based on it.
Elizabeth Smart's prose poetry is full of lush imagery and beautiful turns of phrase, and if I wasn't so weird about writing in my books, I would have underlined most of this book.This review will only be short, as there's not much else I can say about this, but at times I did find the prose a litle difficult to follow - this is a book that does require full concentration, and demands to be read in one sitting, not multiple ones like I did.
This is a book I will definitely read again.
My goodness, this slim little book makes me feel curmudgeonly.
Look at the cover, the praise showered on it for being true and real and a masterpiece, and really, all I felt was irritated.
I wasn't convinced this was a great love story, any more than Wuthering Heights is.
And at least with Wuthering Heights, I'm not convinced we're supposed to think it is romantic.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.
In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Way back in the early '90s, I came across Ashley Hutchings' album "By Gloucester Docks I sat down and wept", an intensely personal folk rock concept album telling the story of a doomed relationship.
This book is referenced not just by the title, but because a few lines of it are quoted at a key point in the story.
It took me more than 20 years, but when I saw the book, I was curious enough to buy it.
Elizabeth Smart's novella is an impressionistic "prose poem" short of conventional plot but full of striking language - a book more about feeling than action, but something of a gem nonetheless.
Tengo lo que queráis, a puñados, a brazadas, para todos.Tengo un problema con este libro, y es que por un lado me encanta cómo está escrito; lo que hace Elizabeth Smart con las palabras, ese uso del lenguaje, cómo lo explota..., es magia, pura poesía.
Aunque es un libro autobiográfico, y si bien es cierto que cuenta una etapa de su vida sin hacer apología de nada, su visión del amor no la comparto.
Holy shit. This was a work of art.Review on my book blog: http://www.vivatramp.co.uk/2015/09/be...
From the little I've read elsewhere, it sounds like his former fame had much to do with personal charisma, which meant it waned after his death in old age.)Brigid Brophy's intro celebrates Smart's juxtaposition of high-flown dramatic romance and the mundane, whereby a person can be a middle class housewife and Isolde at the same time: “it is tomorrow's breakfast rather than the future's blood that dictates fatal forbearance”.
This was, for me, an intensely frustrating book.
The Canadian author decided as a teenager she would 'fall in love with a poet'.
Cyril Connolly quipped about the 'pram in the hall' being the enemy of good art for me.
It's worse for women, whose art is often stymied by the pram in the head.
The frustration, for me, was wishing she had used her evident talent and insight on something more substantial than love, especially the banal, self-indulgent 'I love him with my whole being' kind that is only a mirror and never a window.
The late, great Angela Carter offered the last word on this: upon meeting Elizabeth Smart at a party, Carter apparently "wrote in fury to [her friend] Lorna Sage saying that she hoped no daughter of hers would ever be in a position to write a book like Smart's:BY GRAND CENTRAL STATION I TORE OFF HIS BALLS would be more like it". This anecdote (and much else) is from Kate Webb's review, "Monsters marinated in being," TLS July 8 2016, pp. 13-14.
Por un momento veo a George Barker leyendo esta novelita en la cama con una de las madres de sus quince hijos descojonándose de risa.
Me recuerdan a cierto personaje que me lanzaba sus sentimientos a la cara como pelotas de tenis; puede ser divertido, e incluso halagador, al principio, pero inevitablemente deviene un coñazo absoluto en poco tiempo.
Como cualquier otro tipo de ombliguismo.Elizabeth Smart es la protagonista de "Carta de una desconocida" de Stefan Zweig a la que han recetado la medicación equivocada.Barker, a juzgar por lo que cuentan, tuvo que pasárselo de miedo.
I passionately love the title of this book!
I passionately hate everything else about this book.
This isn't love Elizabeth, this is self serving nonsense!
She talks about how much she loves this man and yet you have no sense of why?
She just talks about herself!
She just talks about herself!
It felt so long!
I felt like I was endlessly reading the same paragraph!
And some of the images were beautiful but some of the images were ludicrous- "my lover has Doves eyes" what in the name of God!!!!!!!
Your lover has the dull, unblinking eyes of a pigeon!!!!!
This is really powerful & I love her writing. But I'm not heartbroken enough right now to enjoy it. I need to be massively depressed to read Sylvia Plath. I need to be drinking black coffee to read Ernest Hemingway. And it would seem I need to be at 'the depths of despair' {thankyouAnneShirley} to read By Grand Central Station I Sat Down and Wept.
Unlike any memoir or romance you've ever read, this has been called a "prose poem," but I would call it sheer poetry.
Written in the early 1940's while Smart was in the throes of passionate obsession, it is hot without being salacious.
Smart fell in love with the poet George Barker in the most intimate fashion -- through the written word.
By reading a volume of his poetry.
Although they never married (he already had a wife), they went on to have four children together, but this was written just after the birth of her first daughter.
La potencia de las imágenes generadas, de la pasión reflejada en el texto sustituyen de manera completa la necesidad de un hilo argumental. No es y es novela, es poesía sin verso ni ritmo...Profunda, dolorosa, retrato de una pasión amorosa que hace sufrir a los personajes implicados.Y, gracias a un ritmo vertiginoso propio de las reflexiones internas, la narración avanza a grandes zancadas.Maravillosa.
I spent a summer afternoon with this novel at the botanic gardens and there I, myself sat down and wept. By Grand Central Station I Sat Down And Wept is a poetic explosion of love in its rawest form, of emotion that is so course it stings to the touch. Each sentence is a kind of tremulous agitation, a desperate cry of complete vulnerability, an intimate caress. Could there be anything as beautiful as the love this woman bore this man?
Opens at Big Sur, which is where I was this summer! We visited Henry Miller's cabin but didn't find a copy of his Reflections On The Death Of Mishima. In fact, the staff had never heard of it. Big Sur is just like Cornwall, but light is less good.
