https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20518872-the-three-body-problem
The main gamer character, Wang Miao, is a professor of physics specializing in nanotech.It turns out the game and the Red Coast project are connected.They both relate to extraterrestrial life.(view spoiler)[The game transports the players to the Trisolar Universe, a universe with three suns that really exists.In most respects, Trisolar is behind earth technologically (they are playing out earlier eras in earth history), but in certain respects they are ahead of earth.Trisolar swings between "chaotic eras" and "stable eras".
The focus is technology and science, with the prose, characters, and plot being entirely secondary to the ideas.
She is sent off for hard labor at a re-education camp, but by a strange twist of fate gets a chance to work at a top secret government project seeking out extraterrestrial life.
Wang goes undercover in this strange conspiracy when he started playing a virtual reality game called The Three-Body Problem, which only the most brilliant scientific minds can hope to beat.The premise is fascinating and well-grounded (as far as I can tell) in hard science.
If you like big ideas and fantasy based on hard science, this is worth a read.
It's an open question that both the reader and the character must answer.And then I got an idea.
I'll be revelling in every work I can get my hands on.This is a fantastic example of how great science fiction can be.
Truly inspiring.Update.This novel now a Hugo Nominee for 2015 because of the translation and introduction into the English-speaking market.
It wasn't his fault, and he got caught up in some seriously not-cool BS with this year's Hugo.
It was really fantastic and it had everything I like to see in seriously good fiction.This one might truly be my top pick for the year.
Originally published in it's native Chinese in 2008, The Three-Body Problem has now been translated for English speakers to read and enjoy.
And I'm sure that someone with a knowledge of modern Chinese history would have felt the same.Three-Body is essentially the story of two scientists, Ye Wenjie, an engineer working in a top-secret military base during the 1970's, and Wang Miao, a nanotechnologist in current day China.
But maybe I'm just projecting two of my favourite authors onto another book that I enjoyed.So here is one reader that is converted to the forthcoming volumes and possibly converted to reading more international SF.
The Three-Body Problem was the best SF novel that I’ve read so far.
What I can tell is that you will read an amazing blend of Chinese history, mythology, hard SCi-Fi and well crayoned characters.
To achieve moral awakening required a force outside the human race.”The novel can be hard on science sometimes but the aspect did not lower my enjoyment, although I was overwhelmed by some explanations as my background is mostly economics.
I am looking forward to reading the next volume in the series and I hope it will not suffer from the 2nd books syndrome.
One of the best SF books I've read.
3.5/5 StarsThe Three-Body Problem may be one of the most critically acclaimed Sci-Fi novels of our modern age, and in my opinion, it truly deserved the recognition for all the Sci-Fi ideas and narrative, but not for the characterization.The Three-Body Problem, the first book in Remembrance of Earth’s Past trilogy by Cixin Liu, was actually something I never heard of despite its apparent popularity until I stumbled upon an interview with Barack Obama.
There's the contingent who want to treat it as some sort of referendum on the Chinese science fiction landscape, or Chinese literature in general, as it was a wildly successful bestseller there.
And then there's the way the translator responded to criticism by making a lot of sweeping statements about Chinese writing that I have very little doubt, even in the absence of any personal expertise, are dubious at best.
Which kind of figures, since if notions of best seller can be translated, then this book is Chinese Tom Clancy.
I liked Ye, the astrophysicist, and found Du Shi, the policeman, funny and well-drawn.
As for the action and plot, it is easy to read although I got a little lost in the pure science aspects once or twice (despite being an engineer and having dabbled in quantum mechanics years ago).
I am excited about reading the next two books (which I suspect will be a little like the Foundation Trilogy by Asimov) and hope you'll also enjoy this one.
The narrative structure of this first book is a quite different than the other two but all are extraordinary.
I just spent a week with this hard science fiction, Hugo-award winning novel from Chinese author Cixin Liu and I have to admit: I'm impressed.
Hard Sci-Fi The premise of The Three-Body Problem is that an alien civilization receives a message from a Chinese scientist in the 1970s and plans to come to Earth, naturally, for a good old-fashioned invasion.
Where other novels skim over the nitty-gritty of the science behind spectacle, The Three-Body Problem spends pages making sure the reader knows what to expect.
Though the novel alternates between the time of discovery during the Chinese Cultural Revolution and the present day story, it never feels random.
The Three-Body Problem is part one of an award-winning trilogy by Liu Cixin — and is arguably the best Chinese science fiction novel ever translated into English.
The Three-Body Problem has been translated into English by award-winning writer, Ken Liu (author of books such as The Grace of Kings).
￼But the biggest news is this proof of the maturation of Chinese science fiction into the top ranks of thorough and fascinating thought experimentation.
I like Travis McGee. I like Mickey F****** Spillane.
Beer and pizza and a bug zapper is quality entertainment.“Conan – what is best in life?”Three Body Problem did not have near enough axe welding barbarians or laser beams for my taste.Liu Cixin’s wildly popular, speculative fiction gem was first published in China in 2008 as 三体 (I guess – that’s what it says on Goodreads) and I enjoyed the English translation written by Ken Liu (himself a very talented writer) published in 2014.Liu begins in the late 60s during the Chinese Cultural Revolution and then moves forward in time to a near future where a strange virtual reality game replicates an even stranger reality.And the aliens.Maybe I would have liked this more if I were a physicist.
While this is obviously a masterpiece of hard sci-fi, that is also the reason I had a hard time connecting to it.
While the science behind it all is complex and interesting, I found myself glazing over many a time and detaching from the story.
The characters didn't feel real to me.
I think I have discovered that hard sci-fi is not for me, as I need more of a connection to the story and characters, but I'd recommend this for any science buff.
This Hugo Award winning SF novel by Chinese author Liu Cixin is delightfully intelligent and complex, and I really appreciated the authentic Chinese characters in the story and the insights into China's history and culture.
A respected professor is beaten to death by three young women who are Red Guards, and his astrophysicist daughter, Ye Wenjie, is eventually shipped off to a remote mountaintop where a government-sponsored group is secretly exploring the possibility of electronic communication with aliens.
Not any old buzz mind you, I don’t want to end up reading “50 Shades” or some equally unreadable blockbusters, I only take notice of the excitement among SF/F reading communities.The Three-Body Problem was my SF Book Club’s book of the month (three months ago), it was recommended to me a friend here on GR and I have noticed numerous blogs, articles and online discussions about it so if I am to have any hope of keeping up with the Sci-fi Joneses I’d better give it a shot*.
About forty years later Wang Miao a nanomaterial researcher stumbles upon a VR game that seems to have surprising real world consequences.OK, a little bit of a spoiler now.
ARC received via NetGalley in exchange for an honest reviewThe Three-Body Problem is a very successful trilogy in China and is now translated and published in English for the first time.We're following two main characters over two different time periods.
During the course of the investigation, Wang discovers a mysterious video game called The Three-Body Problem and starts to play it.How Ye, Wang and the game are connected will get clear during the novel.The book reads a lot like a thriller and the SF elements are rare, but when they happen they always have significance.While reading it, the book hovered around 3,5 - 4 stars for me for a long time.
Many of the characters are bland and stiff, but the background drowns all that out.
My Chinese is not quite at the point where I could read the original unaided due to all the technical terms, but I was able to struggle through it with a dictionary and occasional reference to the English translation.
I should also point out that in some of the Chinese editions, the order of the chapters is different than the English translation, where the Cultural Revolution chapters are moved to about Ch. 7 or so instead of the beginning.
Where the book fails is in the basic fundamentals of what makes a good story: writing, characterization, pacing, and plot.
Strange and awkward.Despite these problems, the story does start out interesting enough with the character of Ye Wenjie during the Chinese Revolution.
However, it later jumps to the modern day, through the point of view character of Wang Miao, where its problems can no longer be ignored and the story fizzles.
Perhaps it is unfair of me to heap such harsh criticism at the writing since this is a translation from the original Chinese.
Ye Wenjie's experiences during this time are sad and lonely, but lead her to play a key role in the future of earth.Part II of the story flashes forward 40 years to introduce a new character.
Wang is not sure what is happening, but soon finds out he is to play a pivotal role in the future of how the human civilization will try to survive the impending alien invasion.
Liu Cixin has developed a very impressive sci-fi novel that takes root from actual events from Chinese history.
I didn’t mind the slow pace and enjoyed reading about the science and mathematical parts in the story.
Melding real-world science, history, philosophy, religion and fantastical ideas, this novel delivers a beautifully-written (and translated) narrative which engages the mind, heart and soul.The story starts against the backdrop of the brutal Chinese Cultural Revolution, which afforded a highly relatable and realistic basis for its central plot.
It was timely that I recently had the impetus to read up on theoretical and astrophysics as this helped my (little) understanding of the science in the novel.
I’m glad I did, because this book is bursting with fascinating ideas about the rise and fall of civilizations, virtual-reality gaming, mind-blowing particle physics, the lonely life of scientists and intellectuals, the madness of the Chinese Cultural Revolution, and alien contact as well.This book is impossible to discuss without significant spoilers, so if you are interested in it since it was put on the Hugo ballot, or you like hard-SF alien contact stories, or you just want to see what the most popular Chinese SF book is about, then read no further and get the book.
Instead, this was so much like reading a physics textbook.That's about where my praise ends, because I prefer emotional character-driven plots with some action, whereas this is a science-driven impersonal plod.
After one single scene with his wife and son (!), they literally disappear for the rest of the book, and I couldn't tell you what his personality is like.
And while the alien world/society is interestingly-written, it is nowhere near the scope of Dune.Without characters with real depth to get attached to, I just never got hooked into this book.
I will say the plot evolves less around the aliens themselves than how Earth’s societies and peoples would react to knowledge of an alien civilization, both in terms of perceived benefits and projected threats.
Sputnik, the hunger for science in the recovery from the Cultural Revolution, the ferment of his mind from math and astronomy, and his personal humbling about the fragility of humanity in response to a 1975 flood and dam failures that destroyed his town and killed over 200,000 people.
As things turn out though, Da Shi's ability to think outside the box is useful and his common sense is comforting....so I developed quite a liking for the fellow.While Wang Miao is looking into the physicist suicides he develops peculiar/frightening 'vision problems' and starts to play an immersive computer game called "Three Body." The game is set on Trisolaris, a distant planet inhabited by extraterrestrials.
"To effectively contain a civilization's development and disarm it across such a long span of time, there is only one way; kill its science." The only thing that I knew about this book prior to reading it was that it revolves around alien invasion. So I prepared myself for spaceship, some cool weapons and amazing battle scenes. All in all I was looking for Guardians of the Galaxy in book form. But how wrong I was! I am so glad that all my hopes were dashed within first few chapters.What started
The only thing that I knew about this book prior to reading it was that it revolves around alien invasion.
One that want an alien invasion as human race must be cleared from earth for Earth's survival, the other is trying tk stop this invasion (this group consists of most of the powerful nations of the world).I am not a huge fantasy fan, in fact I am a beginner in this genre.
While I was super impresses with that one, this one just crossed all limits of my imagination with it's world and use of science.The author has used many amazing concepts in this book like dehydration, rehydration, three body game, dimensions greater than three and many more.
finishing it after I finish the book!http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/11/boo...___From the author's postscript:"I've always felt that the greatest and most beautiful stories in the history of humanity were not sung by wandering bards or written by playwrights and novelists, but told by science.
The title of the book comes from a classic problem of physics (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three-bo...).
Perhaps it's a cultural difference in expectations; perhaps it's just Liu's original take on the genre.I have to admit I was mainly drawn to the book by finding out that Liu is so popular in China, and thus was curious as to what people are reading there.
I was surprised to see that because Three Body had struck me (tentatively, since I know little about China) as an especially Chinese novel, with much to say about how societies should be organised.
This seemed a little infeasible to me, though perhaps it's just a more Chinese way of looking at things.
(An interesting companion read might be Adam Roberts's Yellow Blue Tibia, which used first contact as a way of writing about Stalin's Russia.)The translation, from (the unrelated) Ken Liu, is excellent on a sentence-by-sentence level, though apparently he rearranged some of the chapters for an English-speaking audience, which I can't say I approve of.
Slowly the stories of Ye, Wang and the game begin to fit together until we can suddenly see what’s been going on the whole time and it’s not good news for humanity.
Three Body is at moments like a political thriller and at others a haunting reflection on the horrors of human history.
After so much excitement about this series finally being translated there was a lot for this book to live up to.
It combines the wonder of science fiction with the excitement of a psychological thriller and I think that goes a long way to explaining its success.
Not being from China my knowledge of the Cultural Revolution was limited, but I didn't feel too lost.The messages are true no matter where you are from.These are the rules of the game of civilization: The first priority is to guarantee the existence of the human race and their comfortable life.
It is based around the three-body problem (obviously) that has existed in physics for some time.
There is a lot of physics theories referenced as well as long descriptions of the problem which may bore some readers.Can the fundamental nature of matter really be lawlessness?
Cixin spins this problem into a fascinating scenario with an interstellar scope and blends a plausible, interesting story with some very cool mathematics and physics questions that even a die-hard math-hater like me can enjoy.I’m probably not selling you on this book so far.
The mathy stuff is only one small part of what is an entertaining and gripping novel, written from a cultural perspective largely missing in SF.Three Body Problem begins with the Chinese Cultural Revolution (which Cixin evokes vividly) and its links to the death by suicide of several top scientists in contemporary China.
The most intricate alien-invasion story I have read. It is erudite, it is playful and it makes you struggle with the big questions throughout. It has everything going for it, except, maybe, romance. Read it.
