https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/154242.The_Anti_capitalistic_Mentality
This book is essential to understanding why people are socialists (whether they know it or not).
He shows that capitalism, while making men equal before God and the law, exposes the fact that nature has distributed talent, intelligence, drive, and other gifts very, very unequally.
Men have to choose between facing this inequality and admitting that the next man is more successful because he is endowed with a greater ability to meet the requirements of society, or he will refuse to face this fact and build a wall around his ego - a pseudo-philosophy to protect himself against the truth - this is socialism.
This book is a rant against anti-capitalists.
It's repetitive and makes many false assumptions about them (while giving no satisfactory answers to why it does that).
According to the book, all poor people had equal opportunity to be as rich and famous as anyone else, but they ruined it because they were worthless.
And if not so, it's not fault of capitalism, but because it's not implemented in an absolute way.
The book also says that all the technological advancements have been possible only because of capitalism (notice no mention of implementation or increased human understanding of physics here).

You call this analysis?
I did like his chapters "Noneconomic objections to capitalism" and "Literature under Capitalism" and the "Anticommunism verses Capitalism", they all touched on other aspects.Mises wrote:"Free Market is to allow producers and consumers to make their own decisions.
People should be told what to eat, what books they can read, what movies to watch and they should most of their money should go to the government, for only they know best how to spend it.Mises rightly points that putting it in the hands of the elite to control all of this, would likely do away with all the good books, movies and stuff that is also the fruit of a free-market.
Αποτελεί ουσιαστικά μια φορτισμένη πολεμική του Mises ενάντια στο έντονο αντικαπιταλιστικό πνεύμα και τους φορείς αυτού κατά την πρώτη δεκαετία μετά το τέλος του Β' Παγκοσμίου Πολέμου, όταν και έγραψε το "The Anticapitalistic Mentality".
Και ακριβώς στη βάση αυτή εξαπολύει μία αδιανόητα μικρόνοη και συμπλεγματική επίθεση σε ότι αυτός θεωρεί εχθρό της ελευθερίας (που ελευθερία για τον Mises ταυτίζεται πρώτα και κύρια με οικονομική ελευθερία), τα συνδικάτα, του διανοούμενους και στοχαστες της αμερικανικής αριστερής σκέψης, τους ελεύθερους επαγγελματίες και τους απλούς εργαζομένους.
Μέσα από ένα αντιεπιστημονικό συνοθύλευμα σοφιστειών και λογικών αλμάτων ο Mises ηρωοποιεί τον επιχειρηματία/αφεντικό και δικαιώνει τη κοινωνική του θέση στη βάση μιας υποτιθέμενης καπατσοσύνης, ευστροφίας και εργατικότητας.
Von Mises points out how he believes that the market itself was critical in providing the prosperity and levels of technology that are available.
He also points out how people who dislike markets disregard their immense value in providing information.
The book also points out that markets enable people to make a huge number of free choices all the time, another fact that detractors of markets often ignore.
Von Mises also points out that most Marxists and critics of markets have little or no experience in creating or running businesses and fail to appreciate the work, skill and risk involved.
This is the most passionate book by Mises that I've read.
I've read excerpts before, but never the whole book.Mises explains the psychology of the anti-capitalist as if he were writing today.
Especially the envy, contempt, and over-confidence that marked my personality when I was younger.It's sometimes challenging to understand why so many people hate and fear capitalism, properly understood.
Theft and violence are not drivers of progress; yet this is what most people believe today as in Mises' day.Resentment, bigotry, parenting, and various peculiar American cultural artifacts (like the virtual segregation between businessmen, entrepreneurs, and intellectuals) combine to keep socialism raging throughout the country and the world.
This book is partly economic and partly "psychological," in that it attempts to explain why those who oppose capitalism do so.
The economic or social science segments of this book are in fact extremely worthwhile and demonstrate von Mises' keen understanding of that field.
Most people, including myself, will gain a lot from reading it.
The psychological segments are useful, but are sometimes a bit of a stretch and engage in too much pigeonholing, or fitting a wide array of people's motives into one or a few boxes.
Nonetheless, it seems to me that there is truth in those segments--just not the whole story.
Suas críticas se originam de fatores psicológicos e subconscientes, movidas pelo ressentimento daqueles que acreditam que seu estado de inferioridade é fruto da injustiça da organização econômica da sociedade e não de seu próprio fracasso em atender às demandas do livre mercado.
O sucesso do capitalismo é a prova de que o sistema de livre mercado, com a proteção das liberdades individuais e regulamentos suficientes para proteger os direitos de propriedade, é o único caminho possível para o progresso da humanidade.
In this short book, Mises sets out the view that the main spring of anti-market thought essentially derives from an envious spirit on the part of pseudo-intellectuals.
Much of his insight seems to be sound although I am more inclined to the accept the thesis of intellectual error rather than malice aforethought to explain anti-market views, especially as the "left" and the "right" are typically presented to people as a package deal in which many unappealing tendencies are caught up in the "right" along with liberal economics.
A short yet great bookI think Mises made pretty clear which are the enemies of freedom and the consequences of their thinking. I recommend this book to anyone that has a very basic notion of economics.
Excellent. Right up there with Friedman, Hayek, and Bastiat
The success of a human being and its value in the world is based on its financial success and material accumulation, individuals only possibly acquire material wealth through moral ways in a pure capitalistic system and all critics of capitalism are moved by envy and resentment. Gotcha.Diseased ideology.
Generalismos e exemplos rasos resumem a escrita deste ensaio.
Na página 111 da 2ª edição da Vide Editorial, o autor faz uma crítica aos tais 'autores comunistas': "Esses escritores tomam os dogmas nos quais a sua explicação dos eventos é baseada como sendo evidentes e irrefutáveis e estão completamente convencidos que os seus leitores compartilham da sua certeza." A crítica é para os comunistas, mas a sentença pode ser usada integralmente como reflexão sobre a própria obra de Ludvig von Mises.Particularmente me esforcei para encontrar mais pontos positivos durante a leitura, afinal compartilho do ponto de vista do autor em algumas das questões abordadas, mas a quantidade de pontas soltas e falácias não permitiram maior respeito ao texto.
Para os direitistas liberais entry-level, não consigo recomendar isso porque é mais um "take that!" do que realmente uma análise séria de mentalidade e política e coisa e tal; os argumentos de inveja são colocados de forma bem superficial e nunca são muito desenvolvidos (onde entra, por exemplo, a culpa católica, que é que entra?
Talvez merecesse uma edição nova, atualizada e comentada por alguém envolvido nas políticas atuais) e acaba parecendo que a pessoa é anti-capitalista simplesmente porque ganha menos que fulano, o que eu acho que é um argumento muito fraco.
Anti-capitalists hate the potential of failure, for it brings awareness to defeat and insufficiency because success and failure are determined by supply and demand based on merit and achievement rather than the apparent human need or right.The hatred of capitalism manifests into many forms.
Hollywood and Broadway are strongholds of anti-capitalist hotbeds, yet they fail to understand that the main motive championing the success of the screen and stage is capitalism because their material success depends on the sovereignty of the consumer.Other noble sources of hatred are the resentment of frustrated ambition, white collar workers, intellectuals and cousins.Overall, although the origins of the anti-capitalist stance is purely of subjective means, Ludwig von Mises provides very convincing arguments due to the envious tendency found in human nature.

ESTE ENSAIO DE MISES é um tratado definitivo sobre os motivos pelos quais o capitalismo, como sistema econômico, é tão criticado pelos cidadãos comuns, e não só necessariamente por aqueles que defendem o intervencionismo por motivações ideológicas.Esta edição da Vide Editorial traz o prefácio impecável de Flavio Morgenstern, um dos nomes por trás d'O Implicante.
Há partes primorosas como o capítulo "Injustiça", onde o autor discorre sobre a importância da acumulação de capital na geração da riqueza de uma nação.
A última parte do livro, "Anticomunismo Versus Capitalismo" é um verdadeiro tapa nos que imaginam o socialismo como algo muito distante do comunismo.
The author, a famous economist from the Austrian school of economics, tries to explain the psychology of the socialist intellectual.
Why are the majority of intellectuals on the political Left?
He argues that many scientists, professors, writers and journalists are envious of businessmen, who make far more money, but appear to have no particular talent (except for making money).
He argues that intellectuals often disguise their envy by attacking the capitalistic system, being too ashamed to express their envy openly.
Being a scientist myself, I must admit that I have at times felt envious of over-compensated morons.
Livro excelente como os demais de Mises. De uma maneira muito objetiva e sem rodeios, desmascara os discursos anticapitalistas da atualidade.Consegue ser preciso no diagnóstico ao trazer à tona o contexto de cada iniciativa de criticar o sistema econômico vigente, na maioria das vezes por desconhecimento de economia ou percepção errada sobre as distorções sociais resultantes de intervenções estatais e não pelo livre mercado.Leitura obrigatória para quem deseja conhecer mais sobre Liberalismo Econômico.
There's a lengthy excerpt which pertains to literature which I should type in here, but I may save that for a blog entry. Suffice it to say, Mises pulls no punches for the "social" literature of bourgeois authors who romanticize the poor and their condition. And I'm a sucker for being introduced to words I've never seen before, such as "banausic". Also, unlike many a polemicist, Mises actually bothered to read the opposition (e.g., Marx, Lenin).
Πάντα απολαυστικός ο L.v. Mises. Το βιβλίο αυτό έχει πολλές εύστοχες παρατηρήσεις που, κατά τον συγγραφέα, ερμηνεύουν την πολεμική εναντίον του καπιταλισμού. Δεν πρέπει να ξεχνάμε ότι ο Mises ήταν οικονομολόγος, ενώ εδώ επιχειρεί αρκετές "ψυχολογικές" ερμηνείες. Αξίζει να διαβαστεί, ιδίως στην Ελλάδα που ο καπιταλισμός και οι φιλελεύθερες ιδέες λοιδορούνται καθημερινά με απίθανες ανακρίβειες.
Fantástico.
This isn't Mises' best work. It's a short and fairly easy read, but I strongly suggest reading some of his others first.
Good points, as always from prof. Mises.
My first ever Mises. Brilliantly illuminating.
And here, I think, the author is writing to the wealthy socialites of the United States and letting them know that the envious haters who want to bring them down through corrupting government and society largely due so because there is no social connection between cultural and economic elites in the United States as there is in other countries.
After this the author turns to the social philosophy of the ordinary man (2), a brief examination of a largely non-capitalistic mindset.
Then von Mises turns his attention to literature under Capitalism, looking at detective stories and their anti-Capitalist mindset and the bigotry and bias of many literati.
The historic ways of organizing society by slave, serfdom, and caste limited and constrained the individual to immovable economic and social status--apart from extremely rare cases where one can climb the social rung.
It is only in the capitalistic system where we see poverty eroded and the rise of the common man.
Despite this achievement, Mises notices a vibrant and dogmatic attack on capitalism.
Individuals in the capitalistic system notices others who have succeeded where he has failed.
As such, Mises explains, some harbor resentment and envy, blaming not themselves or misfortune for their failure, but the system altogether.
The answer, undoubtedly, is for Mises, capitalism.
