https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/294035.Frames_of_Mind
I wrote a paper on Gardner's theory of multiple intelligences when I was working toward my master's in education.I didn't come down entirely on the anti-Gardner side of the fence but I was pretty critical about the lack of scientific evidence for separate "intelligences" and other imprecisions in his work (a chronic failing of education-related studies).If nothing else, Gardner forces the attentive reader (pro or con) to re-evaluate how we teach people and if he's caused us to do it better, then he's done us a service.
While the concept of this theory was interesting, the writing was unnecessarily verbose.
I found it difficult to pick out the main ideas of the theory beyond the first three and many of the notes in the final chapters seemed like afterthoughts to add to the page count.
Gardner writes like a theorist, which is to say that he makes things complex for no reason other than the fact that he can.
Since I am more of a creative writer, getting through this text was a chore that I'm proud to say I completed, but am unsure I ever should have attempted.
Again, this diagnosis does not ensure that they will develop the talent"The multiple intelligences, according to Gardner are:	1) Linguistic	2) Logical/Mathematical	3) Musical	4) Spatial	5) Kinaesthetic	6) Intrapersonal	7) InterpersonalGardner posits this understanding of the intelligences as a way to know how to educate and strengthen humans and their abilities, but he also makes a nod to a major elephant in the room: the desire to learn, which can be seen as a clear common factor in high achievers.
Recommended by my sister..Gardner's work is one of the great rebuttals to those who advocate the use of standardized testing scores as an appropriate measure of teaching and learning. It opened my eyes.
One of my professors used this as a text when I was working on a M.A. in education, and it really opened some new doors for me. I'd always felt that conventional intelligence tests like IQ tests and the SAT were marginally relevant at best, and that a lot of people were very smart in ways those tests didn't recognize. In this book, Howard Gardner has done a good job of categorizing and examining a number of different kinds of intelligence including some not often recognized by our education and testing system - for example, interpersonal, intrapersonal, and kinesthetic.
Such an interesting read. So helpful for anyone involved in the development of a child. It seems a little more relevant to parent compared to teachers. There seems to be a misconception among educators that this is a book about how "Everyone Learns Differently." It is more about how there are different intelligences which can be nurtured separately and many of them are ignored.
Gardner is a better researcher than he is writer. The content is interesting, but it takes effort to read. It is worth reading since this is the original theory that everyone refers to.
Effective techniques to enhance your learning include keeping a journal and giving yourself time to reflect on new ideas and information.
Effective techniques of enhancing your learning using your language intelligence include reading aloud, especially plays and poetry.
Another idea is to write down reflections on what you've read.
Here are ways to work with this intelligence in your lessons:Arrange cartoons and other pictures in a logical sequence.Sort, categorize, and characterize word lists.While reading a story, stop before you've finished and predict what will happen next.
I swear I do this one.Explore the origins of words.Play games that require critical thinking.
At first go through, I don't agree that music, body-kinesthetic or even language rate as different intelligences...spatial, maybe; math maybe; "personal"?
Now, I should note that I scored high in the past on so-called IQ tests.., but I think those are skewed, culturally, if not in other ways - language associations, spatial orientations, etc are not in my opinion reflective of intelligence (and if course, I'm not a researcher in the field, so that is opinion only for any future trolls who want to argue with me.) There are so many highly intelligent people who cannot solve the problems posed on standardized tests, and yet are extremely adept at problem solving.
That is what I consider a true measure of intelligence...not the ability to use/understand music, math, language, etc.
This books presents a useful way to view intelligence.
I don't entirely agree with his categories, but the notion is useful, as it prevents a person who is talented in, say, dance, from being considered stupid because that person is maybe not so good at linear logic chains.
It would be nicer still, though, if people would look at this book, take its ideas, and use them to direct themselves to areas in which success is more likely than it would be in another direction.This book doesn't explain people like my husband who is good at everything.
I started reading Frames of Mind for my thesis last fall, to use as a straw man against my theoretical framework (Sternberg's WICS Model), but ironically found Gardner's theory more substantial.
The scientific reasons he has for supporting the different kinds of intelligences seem much more valid than Sternberg's, and Gardner provides multiple ways in which his theory can be used.
This theory would be of interest to anyone in the education field, though the writing is pretty dry and academic.

I enjoyed this - it was light enough to follow along, but theoretical and deep enough to let you know some real research went into it. A true proponent of the theory of multiple intelligences, I find this to be foundational in one's understanding of of the myriad ways people can process information and experience the world. After reading this book, you come away with a deeper and richer appreciation for those of us who demonstrate "odd" or "peculiar" learning styles, and who process on levels different than the mainstream.
Necessary reading for all educators. Howard Gardener is a staple in education these days, and this book discusses the various types of intelligence (although I'm not sure if this version is updated with natural intelligence 2002 or so, and the emotional intelligence 2005 or so). Every student talents in different areas, and we can use this talent to help the child grow and learn in a way they'd benefit most from.
I read this while doing my MBA. I saw it as a reference in a newspaper article.A great read and very insightful of peoples attributes. It really allows oneself to view your own personality and attributes under different perspectives.This is book that all talent scouts and HR managers should read.Not for beginner readers, it will take time to digest this monster. However, when you are finished, you will feel absolutely satisfied.
Intelligence should be defined/limited as follows: isolated and distinct, identifiable operations, has an evolutionary and developmental history and an expert, can apply the scientific method to test it, and communicate it through symbols.
Intelligence is not always a positive trait or is only used for good and is more know-how than know-that.Part 2: Gardner’s proposal for a number of specific intelligence and argument thereof.1.
And I don’t disagree with his proposal, but I think he’s missing a lot of intelligences.
Or maybe it’s the opposite and that each intelligence he proposes overlaps with the others.
I appreciate the theory, but the book is a tedious read for the layman. The book is really geared towards psychologists or educators.Also, I feel like Gardner doesn't differentiate enough between an "intelligence" and an "aptitude." Like, some people just have a "knack" for something, and it seems a little grandiose to build an entire theory about that. (Although, to be fair, he has an entire chapter in the beginning where he tries to explain the difference, but I was a little unconvinced...)
As the title suggests, Gardner provides a framework for understanding the 7 types of human intelligence that he has observed: linguistic, spatial, logical-mathematical, bodily-kinesthetic, interpersonal, intrapersonal, and musical. Educators and policy makers would do well to implement strategies to access all the intelligences of students, rather than the primarily interpersonal and logical-mathematical strategies employed in today’s scholastic environment
I came across some of Gardner's writings on his M.I. Theory two years ago. I've been wanting to read the whole book ever since. I loved the fact that the author challenged the prevailing notion of a single intelligence assessed by a one-hour paper-and-pencil test (the so called IQ tests), coming up with a more comprehensive approach to human cognition and its potential usefulness in education.
Yenilenmiş ve genişletilmiş baskı... Ayrıca yazarın ilk baskıdan 30 yıl sonra yazdığı önsözü de var
necesito esta informacion para poder realizar un estudio
How is that the aplications of these great ideas came to be not the ideas per se but whoever's interpretation of them?
The title of the book is self-explanatory. You don't need to read this 496 page book, you could look up blogs and article on it, written by Howard Gardner.
This is an early product of Gardner’s work, but very comprehensive. People often confuse Gardner’s research with the theory of different learning styles, which seem to be a much more basic idea and one that is all to often misunderstood or applied only in superficial, fairly useless ways. This book works hard to communicate a well-rounded understanding of intelligence within individual and cultural contexts. I’m interested in reading his later works if he goes into more detail about application of this understanding in educational contexts. This book broaches that subject with a few hypotheses only.
A great book indeed, focuses on how flawed our education system is, how it only focuses on cognitive abilities of a person and not other intelligences.
Howard Gardner is a professor at Harvard.
His controversial theory of multiple intelligences suggests that there are at least seven distinct types of human intelligence, not just one.
The rest is academic iterations of the same material, or results from field research.
I think the idea of multiple intelligences is interesting, but Gardner's theory is unproven thus far, and it critiqued by a whole lot of psych-ed people in the field.
I do like his idea of an "individual-centered school" including developing customized curriculum for each student based on their strengths and weaknesses.

The opening chapters provide a great study in how the Theory of Multiple Intelligences (MI Theory) took hold. Much work has been done in the cognitive sciences since this seminal text, but its influence is still strong, especially in the education world. I find his definition of intelligences useful. And it's surprising how many popular "critics" of the theory don't actually grasp the important points. For a more pointed (brief) introduction to MI theory, you can consult the academic paper on Gardner's website, lectures on Youtube, or his recent interview retrospective on the Harvard EdCast.
Livro muito bom, que muda nosso conceito sobre inteligência. Todos os educadores/professores deveriam ler. Tanto para ficarem motivados a abordar os conteúdos de uma forma diferente (ou melhor, várias formas diferentes - de acordo com cada tipo de inteligência), como para olharem pro aluno "com dificuldade" de forma a buscarem a maneira dele aprender e entender o mundo.A very good book, that changes our concept of intelligence. All the educators/teachers should read it. They would certainly be motivated to teach the same subjetc in different ways, depending on the students' ability.
