https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22202.Bravo_Two_Zero
McNab writes a believable, in-your-face account of what it’s like to be at the receiving end of brutal torture and the experience of taking part in a fierce firefight, his style alert and friendly, drawing you into the tale and refusing to let you go until the bitter end.
It certainly is a brutal story – at least a third is taken up with prolonged descriptions of torture and other barbarity, and death and dehydration abound.
It is told from the POV of the patrol leader Andy (pseudonym) leading his eight-man team on cable-cutting and Scud-hunting mission in Iraq just before the ground invasion phase of the 1991 Gulf War. They get discovered, they get captured.Most of the focus is actually not on the fighting - even though the introduction and the brief combat elements are rather eganging - but it is on the evasion and escape, the difficult weather conditions, the separation of the team into two groups, the death of some of the patrol members, and then the eventual capture of Andy just 4 km from the Syrian border.The second half of the book is about his time in captivity - including interrogations and torture, and it's a somewhat difficult read, because it tells things the way they are - not like in the movies.
4,25 stars - English paperback - Thanks Trevor for the book - found the raiding entery in an old agenda. 🌷🌸🌷
I enjoyed this book for a number of reasons, but one was the way it was written.
The book was written the way McNab speaks and that voice is what comes through.
If McNab wrote this without editorial help, he has a rare kind of genius.
Regardless of truth or fact or whether you like tales of men doing manly things, Brave Two Zero has literary merit in a number of ways lacking in most fiction today.
What do we pick up a book for, anyway?
Perhaps the ultimate action thriller - because it's all true. Mere mortals can only wonder at the feats of sheer physical endurance, not to mention courage and resourcefulness, displayed by members of the world's elite fighting force. Enough said? I won't bother to repeat what many learned commentators have said before me. I've read the book several times, and it never fails to grip and amaze.
What an exhilarating read! different versions of the real-life mission notwithstanding I am compelled to say, this book's narrative sounded as close as one could get to being sincere. Only a man from the trenches could narrate so gruesome a story of interrogation and surviving it. I was honestly surprised that a highly trained commando could write so well. Maybe he had help but not all that way I am hoping. A must-read for all action-thriller lovers. However, I say that in reverence and deep respect for the soldiers who made such unmatchable sacrifice.
This book is biography of a Special operations soldier - SAS from UK.
The mission was to survey the scuds, cable lines in Iraq and the operation was called Bravo Two Zero.When reading the risky operation, the responsibilities, the decisions to be taken on the fly, the physical and mental pressure, stories of endurance of the soldiers from the patrol, one can't stop wondering if man really has the potential to endure so much pain.
I wonder if there are any books from the other side, a Iraqi civilian's view of foreign troops in their country.
I think most people in the UK, if not the western world, who was around at the time of the first Iraq war will have at least heard of this mission.
His descriptions of his torture is brutal but not gratuitous, and includes his own perspective which surprisingly, is not 'these guys are evil' and in fact relates his surprise at points that he is not tortured as bad as the horror stories about what had happened to Iranian prisoners a decade earlier had led him to expect.I will say that it is worth reading The One That Got Away: My SAS Mission Behind Iraqi Lines as well to provide the different interpretations of the same events by two different people with two different outlooks and attitudes.
During the first war in Iraq, one team of 8 soldiers of the Royal Special Air Service, the elite special forces of the Royal Army, was sent to operate beyond the Iraqi lines, in the middle of the desert.
This is a great book not just for the story itself but because the author describes in particular the special forces strategies, how to plan a mission, how to survive in a desert when you are not well equipped (because the intel info were not detailed enough) and how to conduct one enemy tactical interrogation.
As a fan of military history, I do have a passing understanding the 22nd Special Air Service with our allies in England.
It's a great read and at the end of it, you will have a greater appreciation of the men who go out there to do what they gotta get done.Another book, written by one of McNab's teammates, Chris Ryan, entitled "The One That Got Away", chronicles Ryan's perspective through the ordeal and the actions he took that led him to have the longest Escape & Evasion period in SAS history (180 miles).
Certainly not Bravo Two Zero by Andy McNab. Which actually improves with every read." Alan Partridge.As an Alan Partidge devotee, I thought it only proper I should read the great man's favourite book.
It tells the story of an SAS misson during the first Gulf War. As an insight into the functioning of a special forces unit, it's a great read.
Although heavy on jargon and military slang, it's always fast paced and it never gets in the way of the story.
McNab's clear-cut, no-nonsense, military attitude comes through as it is writteen.
I only began reading Andy McNabs books last year and have read a few of the Nick Stone series, some of which I have liked and others less so.This book is completely different in that it is the true account of an SAS mission behind enemy lines.
After reading this, I am keen to read the Chris Ryan book "The one that got away" which is by a member of the same mission and will give a different perspective.All in all I found the book utterly compelling and the fact that it is a true story makes it even more amazing.
A very good start and it had me gripped but lost interest and became fustrated quite soon after. A large amount of un needed detail on what I feel could have been cut down. 200 out of 400 pages of the same context spun changed slightly and repeated brought me close to insanity. Bravado for the work gone in but does it seem fabricated, defiantly so. Such a popular book on secrect services and i have no real idea why it's gained such acclaim.
A really informative book about what it's like to be in the sas. The levels of torture that Andy and the other men had to go through is just horrific. Certainly not a job that many could do.
Anyway, at nearly 20 years later, the time seemed overdue to read this.I can see why this was popular, it is a bit of a page turner.
You do have to wonder if he would really explain how the SAS work and their torture resistance techniques, as all the next enemy needs to do is read the book to understand them and develop effective counter measures.
The SAS must surely know of Che Guevara's work on revolution which was read by the CIA and used to develop counter-insurgency methods.
A very beautiful true story from the account of a British SAS who was really deep in Iraq.
In January 1991 a squad of eight men went behind the Iraqi lines on a top secret mission.
It was called Bravo Two Zero.
Dropped into "scud alley" carrying 210-pound packs, McNab and his men found themselves surrounded by Saddam's army.
"I'll tell you who destroyed the scuds -- it was the British SAS.
Filled with no-holds-barred detail about McNab's capture and excruciating torture, it tells of men tested beyond the limits of human endurance...
After taking a breather from military books with Fevre Dream, i got back to the elite warriors scene with the SAS for a change.
different jargon, lingo, lifestyle.It was after watching The Unit tv series that I got into Eric Haney's IDF.
And then I was recommended by my brother to watch Strike Back, the Brits' own Unit-like tv series, found out it was based on a book as well, by Chris Ryan.
it turned out to be a pissing contest for all the members, each on disputing the other.Although dragging in the middle on all the torture scenes, this was good in a way that it was a break from the american military speak.
22 SAS carried out a long-range deep interdiction/surveillance mission during the First Gulf War and ended up being placed between two regiments of the Iraqi Army.
possibly one of the most argued over small-team missions in military writing history: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bravo_Tw...
like Blackhawk Down, much of the work's literary prominence is because it was among the first military actions since the fall of the Soviet Union and quite some time before the major wars of the 2000s.
with little overall US/UK military action during the 1990s, the events of just a few men became heavily examined, discussed, and written about.
Andy McNab an ex SAS infantryman tells the story of his mission in the first gulf war.Their call sign: Bravo Two Zero.Dropped into the middle of Iraq, an eight man SAS squad is given orders to sever a main communications line that ran from north-west Iraq to Baghdad and to destroy any Scud missiles they find being launched along the way.
They are forced to run from the entire Iraqi army and flee to the Syrian border, along the way they are subject to very bad weather conditions which conclude in hypothermia among the men, but on the last leg they find themselves in a massive firefight near the Syrian border.
I'd heard good things about this book and that it contained the amazing (true) story of an SAS patrol operating in Iraq.
I had no idea nearly half of the book was about the author's experiences as a POW after his patrol was discovered.
What he and others were forced to endure was truly horrible.The writing wasn't perhaps as polished as a professional writer's, but I thought it added more to the story.
It sounded like how a hard-working, professional soldier would describe what was happening to him.
Certainly not Bravo Two Zero by Andy McNab. Which actually improves with every read." Alan Partridge.I have a soft spot for military memoirs, but reading this publishing phenomena 20 years+ after it came out, you really have to wonder what all the fuss was about.
It's a clunky piece of writing and McNab's inability to reflect on anything in a more this-is-what-happened-next narrative offers little insight.
It's a compelling narrative and I suppose there is a directness to the writing, but describing killing people and being tortured with the same tone as opening a ration pack gets you ticking off an awful lot of the Hare checklist.
It ends up being unintentionally insightful and unattractive look at special forces.
Bravo Two Zero was the call sign of an eight-man British Army SAS patrol, inserted behind enemy lines into Iraq during the First Gulf War in January 1991 as part of the prelude to the Coalition ground invasion of Iraq.
This top secret mission was commanded by Sergeant Steven Mitchell and this is the entertaining tale written under Mitchell’s pseudonym Andy McNab. Soon after being dropped the patrol found themselves surrounded by Saddam's army without working radios and with brutally cold weather.
Of the eight who went out, only five returned and this is the story of this mission, one of the most highly decorated British patrols in over 100 years.

I really enjoyed this book.
Apparently there's some controversy about it?
I haven't heard any of it, but I see it in some of the other reviews.
Anywho, the book itself is very good.
McNab tells his story very matter-of-factly.
He doesn't dwell too much on the mental state, but you get the feeling that mental state, as long as you're sane, isn't something you worry too much about when you're trapped and a prisoner in a foreign country.
You just worry about staying alive and not being broken by interrogators, and this book really conveys that, I feel.

Nice read, but apparently Chris Ryan's The One That Got Away: My SAS Mission Behind Enemy Lines and Michael Asher's The Real "Bravo Two Zero". Maybe Mike Coburn's Soldier Five: The Real Truth About the Bravo Two Zero Mission are more accurate.
While an interesting story, Bravo Two Zero gets dragged down under its own weight. Parts are extremely interesting, but they fall few and far between thanks to long periods of nothing noteworthy. The book could be condensed significantly without missing much of its impact. Also, the book is unnecessarily 'British.' The author goes out of his way to use British slang at nearly every opportunity, and the effect is more confusing than relevant. It's an 'ok' read, but I wouldn't recommend it given the glut of other, better books available in the genre.
I found this book to be quite interesting espicially considering it is a non-fiction book, it was quite fast paced and thrilling and it is a true story which makes it even more exciting and thrilling however it makes some of the horrendous scenes even more horrendous and there are indeed various horrendous scenes including horrific torture scenes which are highly graphic detailing extensively the torture that these men are placed through. I highly recommend this book as it is thrilling, interesting, well written and a true story. I personally found this book very interesting.
My reason for giving this book a five star rating is not because of the skill of the author. Indeed, this kind of tale is best told by the soldier himself over a beer or two.And that is how this book feels.Two men sitting in a bar, one, re-telling the most horrific of war stories.Hats off to McNab. Brave doesn't come into it.If you want to immerse yourself in the head of an elite soldier. Read this and thank the Lord guys like this are on our side.
I understand this nonfiction book about the Gulf War, written by Britain's most decorated soldier, is required reading by some branches of the US military. Since it concerns capture and survival I can quite understand why. I found myself engaged from the opening pages until the end, much of the action so unreal that it had to be true. Real life is like that I suppose, especially in wartime.
