https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/428495.Shakespeare
In the end, she has been tamed, and the logic of farce is that she should say so."On Love's Labor's Lost: "Biron is the only inhabitant of Love's Labor's Lost who talks like a person of this world.
has an identical source: wonder that such things can be at all and be so genuine."Richard II:"There can be no question as to Shakespeare's affection for the hero of his new historical play.
It is also the beauty of the English language considered as an instrument upon which music can be made.""Richard is Shakespeare's finest poet thus far and in spite of everything he is a touching person.
In the end, however, I obviously cannot fault Van Doren for existing only during his lifetime.Again, I recommend this to anyone who has read Shakespeare's complete works, but sadly, I suspect that its full splendor will only be available to that small crowd.Also, it's worth noting that I read the first edition of this, not NYRB's, but the first edition is not listed on Goodreads, and the page count does not differ too much, so I left it with NYRB's.
In Quiz Show, one of my favorite movies, Paul Scofield played Mark Van Doren as the epitome of kindly, bemused, genial learning, a scrupulous, drolly cultivated mind in humanist tweed (as opposed to the TV executives, all sheathed in sharkish blues, teals and grays).
Anyway, I love this book because reading it I hear and picture Scofield-as-Van Doren professing in an old Columbia lecture hall, a profound love of and lifelong familiarity with Shakespeare having smoothed his lectures to graceful yarns, delivered note-less, thrilling revelations coming at you on a stream of easy, cultured talk.
Van Doren's first book, on Dryden, the one that is the occasion for T.S. Eliot's famous essay-review, is awe-inspiring but doesn't have this book's warm-hued patina.
However, he's not a thorough critic and it seems like a brief survey of the complete works - if you're looking to amuse yourself with a little bit of reading about Shakespeare, this is your guy, but the world of Shakespearean criticism is much larger, and, to use Mark's own standards, there is a world of more thorough and more creative readings of Shakespeare than this.
And speaking of academically divisive, this book has a particular structure, it follows an arc of what Van Doren holds to be the chronological order of the plays.
It is why this is a book to be read all at once after reading the complete works, not one essay at a time as you complete each play.
Despite this, Van Doren weaves a fairly convincing thread through these essays, showing how one play might anticipate the next, how Shakespeare as an artist may have developed himself.
Van Doren, Mark.
Travel back with me to 1959, when I took an honors course in Shakespeare.
The course was 17-weeks long and we read and studied seventeen of the plays.
What a treat it would have been to have taken Professor Van Doren’s course instead.
This book, an essential reference work that belongs on everyone’s shelf, presents his course that he taught at Columbia.
It presented Shakespeare not as an icon, but as a skilled playwright – mostly – who could strike at the heart of his topic with unerring skill.
Van Doren captures us in his love for his subject.
This book is actually kind of cool, especially if you've been out of school for awhile or haven't taken any adult education classes recently.
Sure, it's old school, but Van Doren knows his stuff.
It's based on close reading and not some post-post-post whatever, where things start off interesting and then you end up asking yourself, "where am I?
Why did I have to pay for a book that contains a conversation I could have at nearly any coffee shop or bar in Cambridge, MA?" So grab some Penguin Shakespeare paperbacks, youtube some old BBC plays, and read Van Doren for your own Shakespeare class...free of charge.
I love the introduction--Van Doren tells the reader exactly what his analyses will be: close readings and some reader response theory without a hint of biography, historical context, or any of the "isms" (marx, femin, formal, etc.).
The handful of play analyses that I have read so far have given me new insights to Shakespeare's works.
He packs so many ideas in to that scant space that his readings are not always presented as fully as I would like.
Because he covers all of Shakespeare's canon, though, anything longer would be unwieldy.
Van Doren analyzes every one of the plays in under 350 pages, but this very concise work is never simplistic. Subtle, vigorous, evocative--if you want to understand Shakespeare's achievement, this book seems ideal to me. (Van Doren is most remembered these days as the father of his cheating quiz-show contestant son, but he was an accomplished poet and, as a Columbia prof, was teacher to a murders row of future scholars and poets.)
A very clear thinker and careful writer, Van Doren boils down the essence of many Shakespearean themes in the volume of essays. Timeo Hominem Unius Libri (Terence). Be sure to read widely in Shakespearean criticism.
Terrific preface; starts out with a bang; from which it plummets to unenlightening line readings.
A collection of interesting, if somewhat dated, essays on each of Shakespeare’s plays and poems, i found this sort of hit and miss. You can tell when he doesn’t think much of a play: he pads his essays with lots of quotes. And there are some interesting insights here, but on balance I think it’s more for people who are deeply into Shax, like in an academic or professional sense. For laypeople I’d suggest maybe Women of Will, Shakespeare After All or that big Harold Bloom book I keep meaning to finish
The essay on Hamlet is worth the price of the entire book. All lovers of Shakespeare need to read this book.
Part of my near-term project to read Shakespeare's collected works.Essays read:PoemsHenry VIRichard IIITitus AndronicusThe Comedy of Errors: "If Shakespeare's spirit reposed in comedy it was not in this kind of comedy."The Taming of the Shrew: "...even now (as in Much Ado About Nothing) he is master of the theme that lies in the war between love and pride, in the perhaps perversely fascinating spectacle of intellect and will being brought into line with instinct."
My brain was able to retain little of this information. Reading this book did not bring me joy. I can see why others love this guy. His essays in this volume aren't long and you can read one during a lunch half hour, so I imagine the essay on a particular play would be the perfect thing after reading or seeing that play. But then again, maybe not. I read the book straight through, and it became tedious.
Seemed to me one of the most intolerably pretentious and hollow books I've ever read. Consists mostly of lists of antonym pairs (cold heat, lead feathers) or paradoxical statements (it soars in its depths) which the author takes for profound insight. After a few of the essays, when I saw that this pattern would persist through the entirety, I set the book aside unfinished.
These essays opened up Shakespeare and eventually English literature as a whole to me.
