https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2029927.Odd_Hours
If you are keeping a running tally if Dean Koontz novels with a golden retriever in them, add another hash mark for Odd Hours.I continue to enjoy the Odd series, but my one complaint is that the pacing, the story, the motivations, the progress, etc.
This is interesting because there is some stuff that happens that should be very intense, but it isn't.
He is just always dealing with the weirdest stuff!In summary, if you have read and enjoyed up through Brother Odd, keep on trucking with Odd Hours.
But, don't expect much difference in the feel of the story (which may please some of you).
Three stars may be the fewest I'd ever give a Dean Koontz book.
Koontz fans (of which I am one) love Odd Thomas and his unpredictable supernatural abilities, troubled but simple life, and drive to do good in the world.
This installment in the Odd Thomas saga, though, fell a bit short of the mark.
There are wonderful passages - Koontz has an amazing gift for description that is never cliche or vague.
Also, Odd is away from Pico Mundo, and even from the monastery where he spent the last book, because he is frequently "called" somewhere to prevent an unknown atrocity.
This book was an absolute train wreck.
Having been a fan of and read all 3 previous Odd Thomas novels, I was very disappointed with this book.
Maybe this was Koontz's intended style, but I found it too much and annoying.I don't need a biography on Sinatra or a Wikipedia article on the habits of coyotes.
Odds sarcastic wit/humor was way overdone to the point it lost its effectiveness and became old.
All and all, I'm not bashing Koontz as I've read many of his novels and have been a fan.
But this book left a lot to be desired and I hope the next OT novel is greatly improved.
I was excited to see that Koontz had written another Odd Thomas book - I like the character, and I find his paranormal abilities fascinating.
But this was by far my least favorite of the OT books.
Increasingly, I find myself just skimming long exchanges, whether they're between friends or foes, because they don't add to the story.
Given the urgency of the situation in this book, there was just far too much of it.Second, I did not care for the open-ended way Koontz closes this book.
She struck me as a waste of time, as she didn't factor into this story, truly.
This book was such shit. Worst one of the series. I hope the next one is better. Ugh.
Although, I have to say I loved Elvis more, but perhaps only because he was so much more developed & involved in Odd's world.
Not even Sinatra was able to break through the fast-pace of this book.Although I loved the book, I think Koontz kind of hurried through writing it & I missed the great characters & deep thought that usually goes into his books.
I hope that in the next one Sinatra will develop into someone we can love & Boo (& Raphael) will hold more of a place than getting Odd out of only one mess.
Another Koontx book that feels rather like he typed it up on the weekend, glanced over it once and thought "she'll be right".
Like the previous Odd books, this contains some clever language and some rather entertaining non-cliches in Odd's thoughts.
But, also like other Koontz novels, this contains bad guys with poorly explained motives, a pretty weak plot and despite what the "Observer" review says on the back, does NOT contain a "terrific final twist" or if it did, I blinked and missed it.Oh, and there's a golden retriever in it.
Well, don't go reading this book looking for answers.
Odd Thomas and his current ghostly companion,Frank Sinatra take on the latest baddies.
This time though, the end game has global implications.
I enjoyed this installment as much or maybe even a little more than the previous ones.
Odd Thomas and his unique life view has become a favorite of mine.
I can forgive if the plot line drags a bit here and there.
And yes, the pace is a bit rushed.(The whole book takes place over twenty four hours).
And of course there's the mining of nuggets from past books and of course the presence of another Golden Retriever.
It's Odd Thomas.
I hate giving this book two stars, because I LOVE Odd Thomas.
He is one of my favorite fictional characters.
I thought at first it was an exercise in developing Odd's character further.
But Odd is what he is.
Finally, after completing the novel, I thought that perhaps there is a Part II coming on it's heels, because there was much unfinished business.
"All things in their time," as the character Annamaria says.
But clearly Koontz did not intend for us to understand all things in the time it took to read this novel.
Hardly one minute to midnight stuff.Koontz tried to install wit and verve via Odd but it was all cringe worthy and over done.
Koontz kept painting himself into a corner with Odd trapped by a bad guy.
But wait, Odd is now covered by Bad guys 2.
Oh wait, Odd is still trapped with a bad guy.
Odd is still trapped and covered by a bad guy.
Ah screw it, I’ll have Odd shot the bad guy and walk free.Oh and the bomb plot was largely facilitated by a disillusioned priest.
Occasionally great writers, like Dean Koontz, find a niche, which fits them so well that they rise above their already lofty status to produce works, which define them.
Dean Koontz has done this with his Odd Thomas series.
Like Stephen King with his Dark Tower Books, Koontz accomplishes this feat – in my opinion – with his incredible understanding of the lead character and his world.In, Odd Hours, Koontz explores two of America’s biggest internal threats – greed and extreme idealism – and pits his hero, Odd Thomas, against a cast of all-too-close-to-home villains that will have you wondering about the guy who picks up your trash, and even that nice lady from church who gives so much of herself to help those in need.
So the book itself is one star, but the looking forward to the remaining horrible-ness bumps it up to two stars.For starters, Dean Koontz keeps making his main character bring up Shakespeare.
Dean Koontz also likes to make his character talk about how other authors have written things really badly, thus elevating his main character above such terrible writing.
Given that this is one of the most horribly written books that I've read in the last few years.Just to let everyone know exactly how bad this book is -- I can't tell you which is worse: this or The Da Vinci Code.
12 chapters in, and I find myself staying up late reading instead of watching TV. I'm a fan of the author and the series, and this one is off to a great start.
Birdie agrees to watch after her while Odd takes care of saving the world from the death he saw.Odd goes to the house of a man who assaulted him on the beach after he had escaped from the first band of thugs, and finds the man dead in his house, with a woman.
In and around the church, Odd encounters coyotes (for the second time in the book) and at first runs from them, but eventually escapes them by telling them to leave, and that they did not belong there, as Annamaria did during the first coyote encounter.
But this book was soo.....I don't know the word, but I got the feeling the author sat and wrote it all in one take, probably in one night, and then never looked at it again.First, it all takes place in the space of one night.
Second, Odd's gift is psychic magnetism.
Here, he had an apocalyptic type dream, and followed his gift to a California coastal town, where he meets a girl he feels he needs to protect.
It just seemed like so much filling, it was ridiculous!Then, there are pages and pages of Odd's thoughts.
I am not sure why, probably because it is sort of like mind candy, but I have to say that I do not think I will following up with the rest of the books in the Odd Thomas series.While I appreciated that Koontz stopped telling us all the details of the earlier books, just in case we were new to the series and fit the backstory tidbits more fluidly into  Odd Hours , I just don't like the direction the series is taking.
So due to the newest Odd Thomas book coming out in a month, I decided to buckle down and force myself to read this book.
Previously, I had stopped shortly after starting it, frustrated with the story and deciding that there was more I wanted to do with my time than read it.
Now that I made myself get past the horrible beginning and onto the tolerable middle and the dragging-on ending, I'm glad I read it.
I still stand by my feelings that the title "Odd Hours" was merely another excuse to have a catchy title rather than a well-written book.
I really enjoyed this one although as much as I wanted to give it five stars but just couldn't because of a few things.
The character Annamara bugged me, and I was totally bummed by the ending.
Also there was this one scene were OT was stuck under a pier for like 20 pages and I all but literally screamed at the book to just get out from under the pier already.All that being said, I love Koontz books and his writing.
I love the way he describes things and the way he writes in general and this for me was a great story!
Koontz has a way of rambling on in some areas and giving a bit too much detail at times, but I just love Odd as a character. Also, there were a couple of times in this book where I laughed out loud due to the witty dialogue. I do have to admit that I didn't have all of my questions answered in this book, but I'm hoping to figure out what was going on with a couple of things in the next book. I look forward to being in Odd's world again soon.
Dark, Eerie, Action Packed, Gripping, Compelling & Hilarious! A Great Read! I Loved It!
Another great read by Dean Koontz.
In 'Odd Hours' the former short order cook with a the ability to see the dead finds himself in a seaside town drawn to police corruption which extends as far as placing every resident of America in danger.
Annamaria promises to be a character of interest for further Odd Thomas books - I just would've liked there to have been more rhyme to her reason for being in 'Odd Hours'.I re-read this in readiness for the Odd Interludes and then Odd Apocalypse.
Once again Dean Koontz has created something wonderful with this Odd book.Odd has moved again, not yet returning to his home.
This time he’s faced with a mysterious female who seems to know more than she is letting on, although she is sure to prevent Odd from glimpsing beneath the surface to see what is hidden.
As always Odd steps up to the task in the only way he seems to know how, dealing with yet another evil in the world.
Again, we’re seeing Koontz at his best with the many different emotions he puts into the book leaving you hooked from start to end.
Koontz, as always, proves that he can create a loveable character and enough witty dialogue to keep readers engaged in the story. I enjoyed Odd Hours very much.That said...I'm not sure how I feel about the choices Odd was forced to make during the resolution of this book. No spoilers, but just see if by the end of this book you don't feel something of the innocence that is Odd is lost. I didn't feel much development out of the antagonists, but perhaps this is because Koontz left the ending open as a setup for a 5th Odd book.
Odd Hours picks right up from the last pages of Brother Odd, and this one finds Odd Thomas at Magic Beach, California, which I don't even know if Magic Beach is a real place or fictional, I looked it up just out of curiosity but didn't find any Magic Beach, so I assume it's fictional. Anyway, I found this book to be very different than the previous books in the series, this one didn't involve much supernatural stuff like the previous ones. Still, it was a great book.Now for book #5, Odd Apocalypse!
I have read all of the Odd Thomas books and maybe everything Koontz has written.
His books always contain plenty of action, suspence and drama, but never fail to include the moral ideals which must be the author's.
This one is no exception.
With the seriousness of the situation (and the fact that the book series already has a few volumes) I thought this might be the end for Oddie, but he does make it through.
The end of the book is almost a fade out, ready for the next drama to begin.
It was a very fast enjoyable read.
He is "dear" as Karen Allen said, with a sly sense of humor, a love and appreciation for all kinds of people, a quiet gallantry, and innocence mixed with worldly wisdom.
While drawn to Odd as the main character, I am also tickled by Koontz's writing style.
"Knowing the names of things is a way to pay respect to the beauty of the world." Koontz does write well.
I like Odd's abilities dealing with ghosts and other-worldly inhabitants but this time there was a little too many strange things and they didn't fit together so well with the grounded terrorist plot of just plain greedy, evil people.
READ~July 7, 2008I really enjoyed this book.
When you are in the situation Odd is in, maybe being maudlin over your lost love doesn't stay in the forefront of your mind.
I think there will be another book after this one.
Since I had only read this book once before, there were many parts that I just didn't remember and was surprised over again.
But most of it was still rattling around in my mind and I had time to really THINK about this book this time around.
Odd has to make choices in this book that will forever affect him and how he lives his life.
This time, Odd saves the world from nuclear bombs being brought on shore in California. He meets Annamaria, and Birdena "Birdie" Hopkins (owner and driver of a 1959 Cadillac Sedan DeVille), as well as Raphael the dog. We are introduced to Blossom Rosedale, at the Cottage of the Happy Monster. The very aggressive and congregating coyotes appear twice, and remain a mystery.
I had forgotten how very much I love Odd Thomas, his straight-faced humor, and his personal life philosophy.
It only took a couple of pages for me to remember what a great character he is.
The story is honestly kind of more of the same--Odd is trying to stop the bad guys before they can hurt a lot of people.
Odd gets to meet some more eccentric, lovely characters and there's a pretty big setup for the next in the series.
I was glad they didn't show up this time.I thought this was slightly better than the previous, Brother Odd, and I will definitely continue on with the series.
