https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42691.The_Haj
As I scribble through the comments on this book, I couldn't find any Arab person who've read it and commented on it..
Being an Arab myself, I felt extremely sad about the misery of our race in the last century.
This book, and although it is very harsh to read, is a true representation of the story of what happened at that time.
It also gives a great description of the Arab character.
It is highly recommended for all my Arab friends and for those who are interested in the historian and cultural knowledge of the middle east in the last century.
nastavak romana Exodus
On a purely aesthetic level, I enjoyed this book.
Without knowing enough about the Arab-Israeli conflict to be able to specifically dispute any of the historical analysis implied by the story, I came away feeling that the it couldn't be anything other than biased.
As I recall it, the Jews come off as nobler people, entirely wronged and victimized whereas the Arabs are depicted as having a fundamental racial or social flaw which is the root of all conflict in the region.
I was frustrated with the treatment and came away with a bad feeling about the book.
This book reveals the complete truth about the Middle East and the hatred and destructive evil that Israel and the Jewish people are up against.No it is not racist or prejudiced.It simply tells things as they are without regard to political correctness Of course Arabists and their like will hate it,therefore.
In Leon Uris' books he presents all sorts of people who are brave and noble-hearted including British,Germans, Greeks ,Americans and Poles as well as bad people among all nations too.
This book is about the Arab culture, the creation of the State of Israel and how the Palestinians became refugees. Great book but makes you despair about ever being able to come to a resolution in the Middle East.
But the character, Gideon Asch, reminds the fictional Ben Gurion that his ways were not that of a Jew.The Haj in the novel is not the trek to Mecca that every Moslem male must make in his life-time, but the story of a village muktar that is in a strategic place on a highway leading to Jerusalem.
Knowledge is power and if you are ignorant, a man can be persuaded by his leaders to do anything in the name of Allah.The novel also tells the story of the Haj Ibrahim's son, Ishmael.
What I saw of the Palestinian areas during my visit there conforms to what this book has to say about the impact of the religion, the wars and the culture on Palestinian society.
This is a sad and depressing book, as it gives you a view from the Palestinian side of the events before and after the establishment of Israel.
I felt some empathy for the Palestinians as they watched the Jews come back to their ancient homeland and bring the desert to life.
The point most interesting to me was how the Palestinians felt like they were paying the price for the barbarism of modern Europe in WWII.
In sixth grade, everything I knew about Israel and Palestine, I learned from Leon Uris.
We did not cover the history of that region in school, and if fwe had, I'm sure that the coverage would have lacked nuance.After reading Exodus, I wanted to be Jewish and live on a kibbutz.
Reading this book now feels like reading propaganda - funny, because checking Leon Uris's Wikipedia entry, I see that Exodus, his breakout novel, was written after an American PR firm sent him to the mideast in the 1950s.
I suspect Leon Uris novels shaped many Americans' understanding of Israel/Palestine, and so would asset they are important novels for that reason.
Maybe it's just me, but I feel like every time I get through one of his stories, the ending just disappoints.
Like my other Uris experiences, the initial concept is actually quite engaging, but I had bigger problems with this one.For one thing, the narrative style is erratic, shifting from third person, detailing the life of Haj Ibrahim, a Palestinian muktar, to first person (from the perspective of Ibrahim's son, Ishmael), to a more broad third-person narrator, describing global/political events at large.
I was disappointed, because I kept wanting to like it (I never want to dislike a book I'm reading, since it's an investment of both time and interest), but try as I might, I could not.
The story begins in 1922 & runs throu to 1956 bringing critical points in the history to life through the involvement of the family whose father is the Muktar of Tabah, a leader of his people in a region of Palestine who come into direct conflict with Jews from 1922.
And all of us against the infidel.”The history at times wants to make you weep with the frustration & pig headedness of it all, not to mention the politics of the Arab nations which are taken from actual documents & show the divide amongst themselves which is incredulous when you are supposed to be fighting a “common” enemy.It’s thought provoking & very emotional at times, you WILL laugh at places, you will SMILE too but be prepared for a fair few glowers & palm forehead smacking moments too......
This is an account of the Arab - Israeli conflict through the eyes of an Arab-Palestine boy Ishmael.
The author weaves a fictionalised account of the creation of Israel.
Since I wanted to read something about the history of Israel, I had bought this book as well as "Exodus" which is a viewpoint of the conflict seen through the eyes of a Jew. The story is about a Palestine family from the 1920s - 1950s and the travails they go through from being a tribal clan to becoming a refugee.
The book is about a family of Palestinian refugees and spans from the 1920's to 1957.
Through the story of the refugees, the author presents many issues of the Israeli/Arab conflict, and the general attitude of Muslims in the middle east to foreigners.
The books introduces the reader to various aspects of Muslim/Arab life….
Religion, treatment of women, family tradition, various social issues, and mainly the attitude to foreigners in general and the Jews/Zionists in particular.
If this book would be written by a Palestinian, it would be considered a sensational book and would be treated as an authentic description of the events.
I was aware of the author’s obvious bias while reading it, but had a feeling that what he was saying about Arab and Jewish character was probably based mostly on reality.
It seems that the Arab culture, which formed the religion of Islam, was summed up early in the book when Ishmael learned by the age of eight that it was father against son, brother against brother, family against family, clan against clan, tribe against tribe, and most of all, all Islamic Arabs against the infidel.
I was very interested to see that an Arab reviewed and liked this book, on Feb. 21, 2010, and said that it gives a great description of Arab character.
The book was a fascinating read of Arab and Islamic culture.
The Arabs refused to do more than the miniumun amount of work and therefore were amazed to see the hard work of the Jews and some Europeans.
Whereas the Jews absorbed their refuges into the larger Jewish society, the Arabs rejected their refugees leaving them in camps to be fed and cared for by American and European largess.
The Arabs in the book had an almost incomprehensible obssession with sex.
After reading this book it is hard to look on Muslim Arabs with anything but disgust.
If that is true then Muslim Arabs are disgusting.
I picked up this book, thinking that it would be set in Saudi Arabia at the time of the Haj - the pilgrimage to Mecca.
It is an interesting read as far as Palestinian thought and reason (or lack thereof!) Since I live in the Middle East, I can attest to the reality of the profile presented in the book.
There were points in reading the book when I had to pause and say to myself, "Oh - that's way they act like that!" or "Yeah - I've heard people talk exactly this way!" The setting is in Israel and the "West Bank" between the 1920's and the 1950's.
I normally love Leon Uris' work so when I saw this in the library I eagerly added it to my stack and ran home to read it.
Maybe it's a product of my being a mom and trying to instill a sense of fairness in my kids; maybe it's being a Jew in the thick of the Bible Belt, hyper aware of how I present myself and my viewpoints so that I don't offend or alienate anyone.
I still love Uris, and will continue to pick up his work wherever I can find it - hopefully the next book will be a little more equitable in it's opinions.
The Palestinians are also presented sympathetically (displaced by the war, and so on on), but the larger Arab culture is criticized broadly and sweepingly, and the Palestinians are ultimately presented as lazy and to blame for their own lack of making their refugee camps better places for themselves.
But given that the author was Jewish, and that there are random generalized anti-Arab statements throughout, I find it hard to believe that the book is a completely fair portrayal of the situation.In summary, this book left me wanting to find a non-fiction, un-biased book about the modern history of the region.
There are certainly some very black & white situations & characters; however I felt like the descriptions of traditional Arab tribal culture in many areas of the Middle East seems to be as true today.
Told in the first person (young Ishmael) and 3rd person narration, which did not bother me as much as other reviewers, it explored both history and a culture that rigidly stuck to their dogma to the detriment of its people.
The best part of the novel I felt was the complicated relationship that develops between Ishmael's father, the muktar of his village Tabar, and Gideon Asch, a Jew.
I understand it's a fictional novel, but the book spends a lot of time trying to paint the picture of Arab life in the Middle East.
The more liberal side of me hopes that Uris has painted a falsified and horribly inaccurate picture because I wish people didn't have to live like that.
The more conservative side of me hopes that Uris has painted a falsified and horribly inaccurate picture because I am afraid of what accuracy in this case might mean, especially regarding the Jewish community in Israel.I wonder how a book like this could be published if there isn't a certain amount of truth to what is being written.
Not the easiest read in the world, but a great look at the history of the Palestinian refugees. I was amazed by the fact that the story is told from the Arab point of view, yet it is the Jews that come across as reasonable, honest, desiring of peace, etc. This book has definitely given me a desire to read some non-fiction on the history of the Arab/Israeli conflict. I want to know how historically accurate this book is.
It is a story that is told through a number of voices - the land itself, formerly named Palestine from the 1880s when it was a largely barren province of the Ottoman Empire, and on into the mid-1950s following the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948 and its varied impacts on the surrounding Arab nations; and from the perspective of Haj Ibrahim's youngest son, Ishmael.
But when Ishmael is able to present incontrovertible evidence of Farouk's deception, he begins to see that, perhaps, this son can be of use to him.
It tells the story of an Arab family living in Palestine during the influx of Jewish settlers from Europe prior to World War II, the failure of the Arab nations to deal honestly with the refugees after the 1948 war, and the failure of the refugees to adjust to the new reality, leaving us where we are today, 67 years after Israeli independence, with the refugees still thinking their freedom depends on the destruction of Israel.
Leon Uris now gives us the story of the birth of the state of Israel from the Arab point of view.
Haj Ibrahim is the muktar of his village which is situated on the road to Jerusalem in a very strategic spot.
They blame everything on the Jews, even when it was an Arab's fault.
Their so-called leaders ask thousands of Arabs to leave their homes for strategic reasons.
Haj Ibrahim and his family wind up in a camp outside Jericho.
Many Arabs chose to stay and their lives have been better.
I can remember that I did not enjoy it as much as I did “Exodus.” I thought that with all the problems in the Middle East the book might provide me with some insight to the situation, so I decided to re-read the book.The story is about a Palestinian Arab family living in Palestine in the 1920-1950 eras.
Uris does provide some history mixed into the story.
The author does write with some sympathy for the Arabs but mostly the impression I got from the book is the British and Arabs are bad and the Jews are good.I had a totally different response to the book than I did when I read it in 1984.
Even the Deir Yassin incident seems to be a 'mistake that they did not want to do' by the Irgun in the book.There is more.
The sexual acts of the protagonist who has also completed his pilgrimage indirectly nudges the readers to the thought, 'See, that is how they really are.'I hope readers who read the book will also read up on Deir Yassin massacre, Israeli involvement in Sabra-Shatila and other recent incidents, to realize that only one side cannot bear the entire blame for the middle east fiasco.The author also blatantly points out that 'Islam cannot live with anyone in peace'.
I wish someone had given it to our President and Secretaries of State as Uris really does a fine job in both giving us an operational breakdown on the Koran and a great analysis of the Arab/Palestinian/Israeli situation.
Told from the perspective of the Arab narrators this book really does a fine job in giving us a history lesson of the conflict in the Middle East and since it was written in 1984 the characters have also gave us a glimpse of today.
This book was a great source of information about what really lies at the bottom of the conflict between East and West, Jews and Arabs, Arabs and other Arabs, and Arabs and everyone else.
The misery of the Palestinian people is infinite and totally self-inflicted.
The life of Haj Ibrahaim, muktar of a small Palestinian village is representative of the Palestinian people as a whole.
If what Uris depicts as normal life for an Arab woman is true, then it would be better not to have been born at all.
Often I picked this book up out of sheer determination to finish it, not because I wanted to read it.
A Jewish perspective on the Arab experience from the 1920s to the birth of Israel in the form of a novel.
A clear indictment of Arab inhumanity to the Palestinian people.
Leon Uris, who is Jewish, is not without bias.
However, it seems to me, that he largely tells the true story of a people, the Palestinians, who have been failed again and again by their leaders and by their Arab brothers.
A key event of this story has recently been in the news as Netanyahu tried to put the blame of the holocaust on a pre-WWII Palestinian leader.
Powerful look at the Muslim culture, decades before we realized we were at war with it. Larger than life characters, driving plot.
Uris is a good story teller but simply too biased to write meaningfully about the people of the Middle East.Unlike Exodus, which I read as.teenager and ate raw without questioning any of the prejudices, I read this one as a grown up and struggled to complete it due to the unfavourable description of Arabs in general an Islam especially.
