https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161426.How_I_Live_Now
That's the only real downfall of "How I live Now"--unfortunately, Meg Rosoff seemed to target her book towards an audience too immature to realize that this novel is a novel about SURVIVAL.
Meg Rosoff has a unique gift of just giving the reader the bare bones of a story--that is to say, no surnames are given, little background about the characters is revealed in depth, the enemy is referred to solely as just that, "The Enemy"--and still making a profound impact.
This is a novel about people and our determination to survive even in the face of hopelessness.
Nothing says true love like boinking your underage, nicotine addicted, telepathic first cousin while a war is going on.This book was infinitely better when Daisy and Edmond weren't doing things against all the laws of God and man*.[image error]Like Justin Beiber...The story of Daisy and Piper's struggle to survive in an occupied territory whilst finding their family and Daisy overcoming certain issues was fantastic.
Yes, I'm also aware of the buttload of research that shows that children of first cousins aren't actually statistically more likely to suffer from birth defects.
SO FREAKING GOOD!!!
takes some balls for a white woman to claim that she's the only one who can write diversity properly.she wears her privilege like a pimp wears his furs.but the best part tho is the bit where she says that when anyone else writes diverse characters, it's an "agenda," which has no place in young adult literature, according to her.no, for real.that's literally what she said.so. fuck your needs, people—this white lady's ragey pootling is all the diversity you or your kids will ever require.s'cool tho. some of her best friends are black.
Well, it's official - I am a total sucker for a stream-of-consciousness style narration.The writing was very wistful and if it was any more flowing, I would certainly have slipped and face-planted half way through this!You know how from time to time a book comes along that you're positive you won't forget about it anytime soon but can't really explain exactly WHY?
Stunned me too how much I ended up feeling for these kids.Kim Mai Guest is a narrator for this audiobook and damn!
This summer I started doing more fitnessy activities not in an attempt to lose weight or clear my prematurely blocked arteries but in response to the plethora of Young Adult Dystopian Novels that led me to question whether I could a) win the Hunger Games b) jump from a moving train with my Dauntless buddies c) take out an alien with a swift kick to the face and then evade their hot spaceship pursuit.
It’s wonderful how Daisy and so many others find new ways to live after catastrophe, but isn’t it sad how quickly we humans adapt to a less than perfect world?
I didn't like this weird little book until about halfway through.
The narrator sounded too much like a teen (I know, I know) and I didn't know what was going on .
Suddenly I was seeing things through the narrator's eyes and no one else's.
This slim volume is like a textbook on how to write limited first person.
Absolutely excellent.***wondering why all my reviews are five stars?
Because I'm only reviewing my favorite books -- not every book I read.
Consider a novel's presence on my Goodreads bookshelf as a hearty endorsement.
I can't believe I just said "hearty." It sounds like a stew.****
I encourage you all to read this beautiful piece by Kaye M.: https://medium.com/@gildedspine/this-...For more info: http://bibliodaze.com/2015/10/the-unb...
As with The Hunger Games, an enjoyable book that can be read as a Hollywood rewrite of Battle Royale, How I Live Now simply reminded me of far better books - especially John Marsden's Tomorrow, When the War Began.Written in a stream-of-consciousness first-person narration in two parts, the first part meant to show Daisy's underdeveloped ability to write "properly" because she doesn't know how to write dialogue, as compared to the second part written six years later, it can be exhausting to read.
The magic that should come with setting a children's war survival story in England is completely missing.
(c)Q:If you haven't been in a war and are wondering how long it takes to get used to losing everything you think you need or love, I can tell you the answer is no time at all.
(c)Q:The real truth is that the war didn't have much to do with it except that it provided a perfect limbo in which two people who were too young and too related could start kissing without anything or anyone making us stop.
(с)Q:some people are lonely for all the right reasons (c)Q:Things Happen and once they start happening you pretty much just have to hold on for dear life and see where they drop you when they stop.
(St John Rivers doesn't count.) Fleeing a disinterested father, a wicked stepmother, and an eating disorder, 15-year-old Daisy moves to England to live with her cousins on a farm.
Their idyllic adventures are interrupted by a war with an unnamed, unseen enemy, and the children are forced to go on the run as food, water, and eventually hope begin to run out.how i live now is excellent on a number of levels.
The circumstances surrounding the war are eerily relevant to the type of unstructured, viral attacks facing the world today, and the cousins’ initially blase attitude towards the seemingly distant enemy is realistic.
Actual rating: 3.5 "I guess there was a war going on somewhere in the world that night but it wasn’t one that could touch us." Recommended with some reservations.I read this book on accident. By "accident," I don't mean I mistakenly read a book instead when I thought I had been playing Plants vs. Zombies 2 I'm not that stupid, I meant that I picked up this book thinking the story would be something else. During World War II in England, there was an operation to evacuate children from the larger
Most of the people who got killed were either old like our parents so they’d had good lives already, or people who worked in banks and were pretty boring anyway, or other people we didn’t know."Daisy is spoiled and a pain in the ass.
How did she become this way?"I really tried to explain about at first not wanting to get poisoned by my stepmother and how much it annoyed her and how after a while I discovered I liked the feeling of being hungry and the fact that it drove everyone stark raving mad and cost my father a fortune in shrinks and also it was something I was good at."Yeah...she's not the most likeable character.
So it's very strange to read the entire novel without feeling a single genuine emotion other than annoyance at both the characters and the plot.The war setting and story was perfectly serviceable, though not one that was particularly affecting or unusual.
I had no idea who any of these characters were or what they thought or felt, except in what was related to me through Daisy.
i was dreading reading all these teen books - not all of them look bad or anything, but there are just so many and i am so far away from my teenage years...
but this one is a hoot!
(if a book about war and death and eating disorders and all horrible things can be said to be a hoot.for my purposes i say yes) i liked the characters voice, it was just the right combination of faux-sophistication and vulnerability.
and now i am really looking forward to my class!!

This book took a while to get into, but once you get used to the writing style it's really captivating and wonderful.
Horrible. This book contained inappropriate content for the recommended 13 year old and up readers. An anorexic 15 year old has sex with her "cool", cigarette smoking cousin. This book is everything you wouldn't want your 13 year old reading about. On top of the disgusting content I found there to be really no plot and no real clear resolution or ending. The characters were strangers to me the entire time while reading. I found the whole story rather boring and pointless.PLOT:3/20 CREATIVITY:3/20 WRITING::8/20 CHARACTERS:7/20 ENDING:2/10 COVER:5/10 OVERALL GRADE:28/100=F
It wasn't nonsensical in anyway, but it really felt like this was a girl telling a story at us, but for her own benefit.- The quotation marks: there was none, and they added to this whole sense of "this is her story not ours." Except without those quotation marks.- The survivalness: It got real out there, peeps.
And we were limited by her own lack of knowledge, etc.- How the war felt so distant and unimportant even though it was continually the problem.The not so good things:- I'm not sold on the ending.
I couldn't finish this tiny ass < 200 page book.
Look at how tiny it is.
Instead I have spent a solid week trying to read this and failing.(I then tried again over a year later, and was just as unimpressed.)I ended up getting through just over half.
It's likely that I'll give How I Live Now another try sometime in the future.
No emotion, no dialogue, nothing to make me keep reading.I want to like it more than I do, but after a week of stops and starts and at least four boredom naps, right now it's not the book for me.
"Now let's try to understand that falling into sexual and emotional thrall with an underage blood relative hadn't exactly been on my list of Things to Do while visiting England, but I was coming around to the belief that whether you liked it or not, Things Happen and once they start happening you pretty much have to hold on for dear life and see where they drop you when they stop" This is the sentence that made me want to read  How I Live Now  I want to explain my rating a little bit and that speaking only on the book this goodreads rating is higher than it should be.
This book is one of my favorites. I love Rosoff's simple writing, which has a massive effect on the book.Another reviewer wrote how the story is not - which would be the obvious assumption - about the love between Daisy and Edmond. It's about survival and how people come together in unexpected ways caused by the circumstances. I agree.I think I gasped out loud when I realized I was on the second last page of the book. "How I Live Now" is beautiful in its simplicity and it's one that sticks with you. Read it!Read in July 2010and March 2013
However, after giving the matter some thought I've decided that even though I don't adore it, this novel does fit my basic "chick lit" guideline (strong female character in a book written by a female author) so it gets to stay."How I Live Now" is Meg Rosoff's first novel.
Here's the plot: The novel starts when fifteen-year-old Daisy is exiled by her father and step-mother to rural England where she is sent to live with her aunt and cousins.
That's right, incestuous.I've thought about this plot point since reading the novel and I do see how Daisy and Edmond being in love was pivotal to the way things went down in the novel.
This is almost one of those staples of children's literature where the unwanted child gets sent off to live with strange relatives in the English countryside, then the cousins all have precious adventures together and learn a little something about family.
It's almost like that, except a war breaks out and their precious adventures turn into gritty survivalism instead.
Rosoff probably had a point to make, something about the shift between childish self-involvement and the mature outside-focus of an adult, but mostly it came off as pretentious.Daisy's a spoiled, world weary New York teenager, which gets old fast, even without being in the middle of a war.

I started reading this book at the store, got to chapter 26, and realized it was the end of my lunch break.
Today I got it from the library, finished it, and immediately started again.Possibly this is all because of my general obsession with social history and behavior around/during particular contemporary wars, but still I think it's good enough to induce compulsion.
I find the arc of the story quick, violent (literally/metaphorically), and extremely believable.
The character development and individual action is just as severe and just as believable.
I didn't even care about the lack of quotation marks, something that would normally drive me totally bats.
I'm not entirely sure how I felt about this. Let me begin by saying that I watched the movie first, several years ago, and somewhat enjoyed it but definitely wouldn't call it a favorite. The book is somewhat in a similar position, but I have to admit that for the most part, I enjoyed the movie more."There were thousands of stories just like this one, and mostly they didn't end happily." The Writing and Worldbuilding I was not a huge fan of the weird to quote or not to quote situation with the di
The book is somewhat in a similar position, but I have to admit that for the most part, I enjoyed the movie more."There were thousands of stories just like this one, and mostly they didn't end happily."
In the vast majority of book, there were no quotation marks and I got used to that, but then in the second part, suddenly sometimes there were quotation marks and I was honestly so confused because it was pretty inconsistent which lines of dialogue had or didn't have any.I really liked how we got more with the refugees and survivors in the second half of the book, which was mostly glossed over in the movie.
Firstly a book of enormous lyricism and poetry – about people, about landscapes, about relationships and feelings.
Fourthly it was a book about magical realism, with characters who didn’t quite add up (Edmund smoked, and drove a car.
So, it was a little bit strange.Several people have objected to the relationship between Edmund and Daisy, saying it was incestuous.
They were not brought up as ‘family’, with the taboos this usually engenders in western cultures.I was quite addicted to reading this book, and found it hard to put down.
I really love this book, but I wouldn't recommend most people read the print book.
This is a sad and brilliant and beautiful book but it's so much easier if you listen to the audiobook instead, because the author has a tendency to Capitalize Words Randomly and not use "quotation marks" when people are speaking so it's kind of hard to tell and then the sentences are really quite long.
I liked the style when rereading but many, many people did not.
So definitely choose the audiobook, since these, ah, quirks aren't as noticeable, especially since Kim Mai Guest does a brilliant job with it.
But since the first time I tried to read How I Live Now, I've read hundreds more books, and therefore I've experienced a lot of different writing styles, so I was able to adapt flawlessly to this one.
If you read or watch either the book or the movie and are unsure about them, I HIGHLY recommend to give the other one a try because you might feel differently about it.
I personally thought the movie was much better, mainly because it was longer and therefore took more time to lay out the plot and get to know the characters.
They are nothing alike, the movie is more thrilling, the book is more touching, but I recommend you to watch it, because it’s a great movie about youth and love and family and war and survival.
The father decides to send her with her not-that-normal cousins in England for the summer, but once there the war erupts and all five kids are stuck alone in a big house in the countryside when the aunt leaves trying to avoid it abroad.As she says, this sets the perfect scene for a sin to be committed.
