https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33439.Strawberry_Shortcake_Murder
She seems very real but I don't know the mid-west all that well, so I have a few more books to read in this series before I come to a conclusion...
the whole abuse factor (not brought up a lot) made it clear he had to go.(OK to read)I loved the way this one was portrayed on the TV series with Alison Sweeney when the made it into a show.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
And now I blog A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.
:: 4 Delicious Stars :: I adore this series.
Hopefully as the series progresses her character will develop a bit more.
In addition to this, the plot is a bit predictable in this book.
Those who enjoy a good cozy mystery will notice that this is true for most of them.
So, all in all I enjoyed this book and I will continue to read the series.
Fans of cozy mystery, I do recommend this book.
Try to read the first one in the series first though (Chocolate Chip Cookie Murder) as it gives a bit more character information.
I really liked book #1 and I quickly bought and finished the second installment.
(view spoiler)[In both books there is a murder committed and then a second murder committed because someone was a witness to the first murder.
Hannah investigates "unofficially" and ends up in a final confrontation with the killer that is EXACTLY the same in both books.
Like, exactly the same words to describe things.
(hide spoiler)]I gave three stars because it was still a light, easy, enjoyable read, and I may even give the third one a try to see if Fluke has any other tricks up her sleeve.
It's a cop-out, but the Hannah Swensen mysteries really only need a lump review:For some reason, I keep reading these when they show up at the library.
Do I enjoy them?
They're trashy murder mysteries that don't always make sense.
They involve recipes.Actually, the books are formulaic enough that they themselves were written by recipe.Yes, I will keep reading them, assuming that new books keep showing up on the library shelves.
I will enjoy them, and I will probably root for Norman as Suitor of the Day. But no, I will not be spending any money on these books.
A basketball coach at the local high school where they are filming the baking contest.It's a rather interesting mystery surrounding Boyd Watson's murder.
Hannah finds herself in more trouble than she bargins for when she promises the wife Danielle that she would help prove she is innocent since the new cop and her brother in lasw are pretty much not looking for another suspect and she is their main target.I could not put this book down, it was a wonderful read.
The bad thing about these books is that I want to eat the entire time I'm reading!
I enjoy Hannah Swensen and her uncanny ability to find herself in yet another murder mystery.
It sort of reminds me of Scooby Doo and the gang and how they always wound up at the scene of a crime or in the middle of a case no matter what.
I could do without the "too cheerful" dialogue and way happy ambience of these books, but I do enjoy them!
This one had me stumped until the end.
Find this review, plus more, on my blog: Booklikes OR Blogger Basic InfoFormat: Audio Pages/Length: n/aGenre: Cozy Mystery Reason For Reading: I like the series At A GlanceLove Triangle/Insta Love/Obsession?: NoCliff Hanger: NoTriggers: n/aRating: 3.5 stars Score SheetAll out of tenCover:  6Plot: 6Characters: 6World Building: 6Flow:  7Series Congruity: 8Writing: 7Ending: 7Total: 7In DepthBest Part: Food, duh.
Worst Part: Kinda the same plot as book 1.
Really wish Hannah wasn't dragged into it thou, should have just left it alone and once they tested the cake for poison, you would have been off the hook.
Book Boyfriend: N/ABest Friend Material: Andrea Review in GIF Form:  I really want some cake!
3.5 StarsThis book was good; I did really enjoy the story line and the whodunit did keep me guessing right up until the end.My biggest issue was with Hannah; she drove me crazy! She just had this attitude about her that she knew everything. The way she talked about here sister, no wonder they didn't get along as children. I enjoy cozy mysteries, I think they are a lot of fun; but Hannah's whole 'I better than the police' started to get on my nerves.Like I said, I did enjoy it and I will be continuing on with the series.
Where is my insulin?? This book was way to sticky sweet and the emphasis was on how the author was going to be able to fit her recipes into the storyline versus the story line itself. I do believe, unless I need them for a challenge, this is my last Joanne Fluke book, unless I grab them to see what recipes she puts in them!
It’s not all sugar and sweetness for Hannah in this cozy mystery.
Judging a Dessert Bake-Off sounds like fun, until one of the judges is found dead.
But the dead man, a coach and abusive husband, had more than one enemy, and Hannah is determined to narrow down the suspects.
Hannah enlists the help of her sister to do some sleuthing, but they find more than they bargained for.
You just might want to stop reading long enough to bake some cookies to enjoy as you match wits with Hannah.
I'm enjoying the heck out of this series. It isn't the best writing but goodness it definitely is one of the most relaxing reads I've had in a while. I'm loving it. And I can't wait to continue listening to them all on audiobook.
I chose to read this book for the March Mystery Madness challenge that is going on.
I am not at all familiar with cozy mysteries so it was a good idea for me to choose one for this challenge to kind of get an idea of what they are like.
I did discover that with reading this book, it pretty much let me know that cozy mysteries are not really for me.
Mixing cooking with murder with an amateur sleuth is always fun, but I did not find it as exciting as the normal mysteries I am used to reading.
I can recommend this book if you do like cozy mysteries.
I personally haven't seen it, although I have heard it's great.Set in the fictional tiny town of Lake Eden, MI, Hannah Swensen is the owner of a bakery called The Cookie Jar. Once again, there's been a murder, and once again, we find Hannah placing herself in the middle of the investigation.
Of course, that doesn't mean that a killer should be allowed to run loose in the usually safe town of Lake Eden, but it's worth a mention.Overall, this is brain candy for people who just want to sit down and enjoy a simple book without having to think too much.
Either way, that's a great sign, although I personally enjoyed the first story a little bit more.
Strawberry Shortcake Murder (Joanne Fluke)Murder Mystery.
Hannah Swensen is a baker living in rural Minnesota.
When she is not baking she is solving crimes...this job just comes naturally to her.
Hannah is asked to judge a four day bake sale.
After the first day one of the judges, Coach Boyd Watson is found dead and Hannah is on the scene.Hannah with the help of her sister Andrea, decide to do some investigatingFast paced who done it, with twists, turns a lot of suspects is a fun page turning all night read.
I look forward to more mysteries by Joanne Fluke.
these books are entertaining and a quick read. the mysteries aren't terribly complex, but they do offer some intriguing twists and turns to keep you reading! the bonus is that each book offers a handful if yummy-sounding dessert recipes. if you like to cook/bake/eat (lol), then that's just another reason to pick up these books! I've already got the next 2 on hold at the library and I can't wait to see what kind of shenanigans Hannah gets herself into next. :)
Good one!! Fun murder mystery along with some new recipes. I'm definitely going to have to try to make the Chocolate Highlander Cookie Bars. Yum!! Also, my new motto from this book is: "If chocolate were a mandatory part of breakfast, people wouldn't be so grouchy in the morning"!!
While some referenced how similar the structure of the book was to its predecessor, I didn't mind. This book was a fun read, and that's what I wanted it to be.
I loved it
A fun read!
I am already realizing that completing these books in order is advantageous, given that each book adds more layers to the main characters: Hannah, otherwise known as The Cookie Lady, the proprietress of a very successful bake shop, Andrea, her real estate broker sister and sidekick, and several other folks who work and live in the Minnesota town of Eden Mill.
This time, Hannah is overseeing a bake-off contest at the local high school, with it's judging being completed by the members of a local tv station, WCOW.
Indirectly, it addresses the serious issues of spousal abuse and steroid use in high school athletes.This book includes recipes for the desserts Hannah serves on tv, as well as additional cookie recipes.
This story features Hannah Swensen, and she is one of the judges of the Heartland Flour Dessert Bakeoff that is being broadcast on the local television station.
Hannah gets emersed into the mystery of this man's murder.With the help of her sister, Andrea, who is a real estate professional, they tackle the mystery of Boyd's death.
Hannah and Andrea spend quite a bit of time looking for her and then they realize that there are now two deaths to contend with.
I look forward to reading the next Hannah Swensen mystery.I purchased this title with my own money and bought it on my Kindle.
2nd in the Hannah Swensen series.The second installment of the series improved on the first.
Hannah is obviously growing as a character.
Her relationship with her sister, Andrea, is also growing.
This time when murder strikes in Lake Eden, Hannah needs to help her friend, Danielle, who is suspected of murdering her battering husband.
Andrea insists on helping Hannah and the two become quite the investigative pair.
Andrea is the charmer and can get information from people when they don't even know they are giving it, which Hannah is good at the direct approach and putting the pieces together.Once again, the mystery was good and kept me intrigued all the way to the end.
I haven’t read many cozy-mysteries so I’m still a novice in this genre, but I must say that this is the best cozy-mystery series I have read so far.Just like the previous book, Chocolate Chip Cookie Murder, Hannah is likeable as ever, I particularly liked her quick-wittedness and how physically capable she is.
Given the page count (324 pages) I think it is understandable there’s a lot of buildup until it reaches the climax.Nonetheless, with all those ideas set aside, I felt that this book takes too long to get down to the nitty-gritty of the mystery, hinting who the possible murderer is.I did enjoy the side stories such as Lisa and Hannah’s partnership, sisterhood with Andrea, and a romantic triangle with Mike and Norman, but I would have enjoyed this book better if this book was a bit shorter than it actually is.
When the president of Hartland Flour chooses Lake Eden, Minnesota as the host for their first annual Dessert Bake-Off, Hannah is overjoyed to be picked to serve as head judge.
When a fellow judge has to drop out due to illness, Coach Boyd Watson is selected to replace him.
During the first day's competition, Coach Boyd rudely criticizes the desserts of four of the contestants, annoying everyone.
Later that evening Hannah gets an urgent call from her friend and Boyd's wife, Danielle.
There is a point in this book at which any basic human intelligence, or probably one of those chess-playing computers, would figure out the killer with no problem. Coincidentally, this is the exact same point at which Hannah suddenly becomes dumber than a sack of rocks. I assume she got hit in the head with an oven door off-camera or something. There was no mention of Mike's moustache but I have to assume it is still there, lurking.
It's like a Nancy Drew mystery: slightly absurd, simple and everything is explained to the nth degree. None of the characters, including Hannah, are the sharpest tools in the shed. But I am addicted.
I'm not sure I like the dessert recipes better than the cookie recipes. I thought this plot was a tad draggy at times,which explains why it took me so long to read, but I like the light hearted love triangle developing.
I am enjoying this series, and especially enjoyed this one. I actually figured out "who did it" before she did this time, but that us unusual for these books. I love the food references, and the fact that they are there, but do not take over the mystery. I do love the recipes, and hope to try some of them soon. I particularly enjoy the characters, and felt like I got to know them better in this book. I'll be reading many more of her books.
I really enjoyed how Andrea helped out a lot with the crime solving, perhaps because she acts just like I would. I also am still on team Norm personally. Also she didn't feed her cat too much in this one, which is good. I can't wait to try out some of the recipes from this series!
3.75 ⭐
3.75 ⭐️
