https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21721.A_Faint_Cold_Fear
3.5 to 4 starsSlaughter continues to be brutal with the third installment of the Grant County series.
Nothing is as it seems to be.I am not going higher with my rating on this because I still feel like this book, like the previous installments, is leaning heavily on shock factor over story to draw in the reader.
Not that shock factor is a bad thing, but when every scene is gory of violently sexual, it does get to be a bit much.I will be continuing reading Slaughter because the stories are interesting and, overall, they are improving.
The third in the Grant County series is a fine addition.
It continues the story of Sara (pediatrician and coroner) and Jeffrey (chief of police) and their volatile relationship and I sped through it quickly.
The murderer was a surprise.
I didn't see that coming , but all in all it was not as shocking as her first 2 books in the series.
It was all wrapped up rather neatly, but it did seem as our murderer had been very busy (when does he have time for his day job?) until the final 3 paragraphs and then I was gobsmacked.
I started off really liking this book, but at some point along the way it started to feel like more of the same old, same old.Sara and Jeffrey are still sort-of-estranged and still vacillating about their feelings for each other.
Lena is still getting it all wrong.
Frank is....well, Frank is Frank is Frank.Sara rather stupidly takes her heavily pregnant sister Tess along for the ride when she attends the scene of an apparent suicide.
Tess takes a walk to attend to the call of nature and is brutally attacked.Doubt is thrown on whether the suicide is actually a suicide when another apparent suicide occurs.
Well, they do say "Practice makes Perfect" and I must say this was a vast improvement on the first two in the series.Most of the characters are intriguing. I seriously don't know what to make of them. Sara, Jeffrey, Lena ... especially Lena. No matter what Jill Rosen said, Lena had rules and one of them was that she never drank before eight at night. Was in Vegas recently and visited Jimmy Buffet's restaurant! It wasn't five o'clock there but it was somewhere!! "Ritalin, of course. His generatio
Well, they do say "Practice makes Perfect" and I must say this was a vast improvement on the first two in the series.Most of the characters are intriguing.
I seriously don't know what to make of them.
Sara, Jeffrey, Lena ...
especially Lena.
No matter what Jill Rosen said, Lena had rules and one of them was that she never drank before eight at night.
Was in Vegas recently and visited Jimmy Buffet's restaurant!
Jeez, I am blessed with healthy children who never needed medications.
"C'mon Sara, what are we doing here?
No fucking idea but y'all need to get your act together.
Karin Slaughter can use this series to teach a class on character development.
Slaughter's characters suffer so much.
Well-done, Ms. Slaughter on another 5-star crime thriller.
Grant County is a dark and graphic series, but if you can handle it, it's a winner.
Check it out!My favorite quote:“Everybody had something horrible happen to them at one time or another in their life; it was part of the human condition.
How they struggled through adversity proved what kind of people they were.”The Grant County series consists of the following installments as of July 2018.
Originally posted on The Book NymphoSarah Linton is called to the scene of an apparent student suicide and allows her very pregnant sister, Tessa, to accompany her.
What happens next sets off a series of tragic and mysterious events that calls into question whether the dead student was a suicide.
The mystery was a good one, though, as I wasn't certain of the killer's identity because I couldn't figure out motive.
This is an extraordinary series with deeply flawed and troubled characters.
No one comes out unscathed and sometimes it's difficult to define the good guys.
Sarah, a medical examiner arrives on a murder scene and while she is examining the victim her pregnant sister, who she brought to the scene, wonders away from her car and is brutally attacked.
A bit far fetched, but wait it gets worse.
She can't even navigate her own messed up existence after the brutal attack she experienced a year ago.
Please don't get me wrong, KS is an excellent writer, but this addition to this series was all over the place, not her best.
I am hoping she reins in the soap opera dialogue between these three and gets back on track with the next in the series.
This particular installment of the Grant County series felt different than the other's I've read (including Slaughter's books that aren't part of this series).
On one hand, if we are going to be following these characters through a series, I want to know about them, but on the other hand I felt like after the opening of the book (which started off with a bang!) I was missing some of the seat gripping action.
I loved reading the book from Sara and Jeffrey's perspectives, but holy hell, did Lena make me want to punch her in the face.
It's useless to argue that I'm just reading this series out of boredom because I am clearly working my way through the Grant county series.
With this novel, however, I am losing some of my like and respect for the characters.
I like Jeffrey a LOT less, regardless of his personal crises of faith in several characters.
I had high hopes at the end of book two that she was turning things around.The plot twist with Tessa's stabbing seemed tacked on and unresolved--seriously.
I hope this gets sorted out or I'll have to quit reading.
I don't like to turn on characters in whom I've invested significant time.
In the last book, Lena was screwed up and Jeffrey and Sara were flirting about not knowing how to commit to their relationship.
Secondly I felt that though the book is quite substantial in size there wasn't really that much happening, a few people got killed but there didn't seem to be any real urgency in the investigation, and the sub plot of Tessa just kind of petered out but for a few haphazard phone calls to remind us about it chucked in.
Overall I read the book because I liked the first couple and I do like the characters (Except Lena) and I really want to see development but it just didn't happen in this book.
This book definitely came across as being more character driven than mystery driven. Not necessarily a bad thing, but I think after getting used to the punch of Slaughter's later books (particularly the Will Trent series) this one just felt slightly lacking. Still a strong, intriguing read but not up to the high caliber of some of her other work.
3.5 stars
3.75 stars

I love the way Karin Slaughter writes, and I'm a big fan of hers- but this series- not so much.
I read 2 of the Will Trent series and I'm sooo loving that.
I read the very fist book in this series and then jumped to Will Trent.
Only because I admire so many of my Good Read pals- I went back to this series to see how it ends.
This type of romance- love/hate/married once and getting back together , but not sure if we should reminds me way too much of a soap opera.

I keep trying to like Lena in this series but dang it's really, really hard. Even Sara kinda ticked me off a bit, she seems prickly about silly things. I like these books enough to continue though.
I really enjoyed re-reading this 3rd novel in her Grant County series.
Oké, mijn twijfels over Karin Slaughter zijn weg. Ze is goed! Dit deel bleef door en door spannend en ik wilde continu doorlezen!
In this 3rd book of the Grant County series by Karin Slaughter, the story opens with a call to the police for an apparent suicide.
This attack calls into question whether the death in the riverbed was really a suicide.Also called to the scene at the bridge is Lena Adams, now a college security officer.
In addition, we see the strain put on Sara and Jeffrey’s relationship as he is effectively shut out by her family as they sit vigil at Tessa’s bedside.Yet another good book in the Grant County series, ensuring that I will continue.
An apparent suicide has brought Medical Examiner Sara Linton and Police Chief Jeffrey Tolliver to the local college campus. Subsequent "suicides" suggest that a different kind of terror is stalking the small town.This is the third book in Slaughter's terrific forensic series. Terrific story. Very hard to put down. Don't jump ahead in this book or you'll miss some clues. It has a surprise ending!!! My rating: 5 Stars
This is one of the worst books I have read in a long time.I would love to give it a lower star but it probably was better than that.
I got into Karin slaughter as a good friend knows I am into Guts, Gore and Bloodletting; the more macabre the better.
:-) This book was T E D I O U S!Can ANYONE _*please!*_ explain the point of the last two chapters?
I am only onto the second chapter and already think it is better than this pile of ****.
And a total, total one at that." I will let you substitute your own word.- Davros -
But where the characters are heading, not so much.My usual pet-peeve with unprofessional behaviour while on the job reached a maximum height with this book.
But it was tempered by how much I enjoyed reading it.And I was left with one massive question:(view spoiler)[who the fuck was the one writing the racial slurs all through campus?
we never get an answer to that.
Ethan's supposedly a reformed character.
Granted, it's not a big thing in the scale of events, but it was used for plot fodder so I wanna get some answers!
(hide spoiler)]Heading on to the next one, because I'm hooked.
3.5 Fangs I enjoyed the suspense present in A Faint Cold Fear much more than I did in Kisscut. Sara is enjoying an outing eating ice cream with her sister Tessa when she's called to a crime scene. Jeffrey is already there. A black college kid is found dead and the evidence points to a probable suicide although, Sara is not too sure about it. While Sara is talking to Jeffrey, the unthinkable happens, a young woman is attacked and stabbed close to the crime scene. What follows is the investigation
A black college kid is found dead and the evidence points to a probable suicide although, Sara is not too sure about it.
While Sara is talking to Jeffrey, the unthinkable happens, a young woman is attacked and stabbed close to the crime scene.
What follows is the investigation into multiple presumed suicides and the attack of the young woman which shook Sara and her family to the core.
Just what she needs after everything she has gone through!!!Even though I liked this story much better, my issues with Jeffrey and Lena persists.
I still think Sara can do much better than Jeffrey.
This is the 16th book by Karin Slaughter that I've read. She is mostly 4 stars for me, but there have been a couple of 2 stars and a few 3 stars. This one was 3 stars for me. I'm not sure I can even pin point why it was only 3 stars. The story didn't grab me like some of her others have or maybe I'm falling out of love with her writing and her stories. I don't know. So 3 stars.
I’m terrible when it comes to reading series in the correct order, at least when it comes to crime thrillers, and my biggest mistake probably sits with Karin Slaughter’s work.Those people who have been fans of Karin Slaughter from the very start say to read her books in order.
I told myself, upon finishing it, that I had to read the Grant County series.
Even though I know how things end due to having read the Will Trent books (see, reading her releases in order is beneficial), I still want to read the specifics.
Trigger warnings: murder, graphic descriptions of wounds, rape, assault, abusive relationships, domestic violence, serious injury to a loved one, death of a child, drug use.20/11/2017On reread, I think this may be my least favourite Karin Slaughter book.
The murder side of things almost takes a backseat to Sara dealing with her sister being attacked and with Lena's story.
If abuse and domestic violence are triggering to you, stay far away from this book.
Will Sara and Jeffrey be able to persuade Lena to talk before more deaths occur?Thoughts: I've loved all of Karin Slaughter's books to date.
There is nothing like a grant county novel.
I loved Lena in the first novel and I really had a lot of frustration toward her in this one.
I think what threw me off is I never thought her character could be so dark and I felt like that really came out in this book.
Another relationship I feel like really developed more in this novel was Sara and Jeffreys.
I feel like they constantly are facing trying situations with one another and I felt confident by the end of this that their relationship is going to work out and that they really do belong together.
Although this series is not as good as the Will Trent Series I am still enjoying it and plan on continuing with this story.SynopsisAn apparent student suicide has brought medical examiner Sara Linton to the local college campus, along with her ex-husband, police chief Jeffrey Tolliver.
Then the ending of this book blew my mind and just opened me up to a ton more questions that I do hope eventually get answered somewhere in the rest of this series.The characters, while pretty well developed at this point really kind of disappointed me.
Sara, I still pretty much like, she is mostly the same as she is in the Will Trent series.
In this one the lead characters are Sara Linton, medical examiner, and Jeffrey Tolliver, Chief of Police, of a small college town in Georgia.
The college plays a large role in the story; it's supposedly a school for dorky types who don't fit in at the better known large universities in Georgia.
Judging from the scene at one dorm party, though, these kids don't seem very nerdy at all.As this gripping story begins, the body of a young man has been found in the dry river bed under a bridge by the college.
Lena is a former cop who now works for the college security department.
