https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4989.The_Red_Tent
Although Diamant seems to be developing something interesting in the nature of Judah, she quickly drops the matter.The author unnecessarily, I believe, alters some segments of the Biblical narrative.
Despite being written by a Jewish author, The Red Tent is in many ways an expression of a growingly popular modern neo-paganism, which incorporates the myth of the universal, goddess/Mother, feminist ideology, and a sort of body/self worship.
I don't complain that Anita Diamant made some of the characters pagan; it is clear from the Bible that many early pre Israelites were, and of course, the Israelites themselves were always sliding back to idol worship.
a religious book!" I know I'm taking a chance at offending the church goers among you, but let's not throw stones...
Quite simply because I knew this gal would be ringing me up at the register and I just couldn't allow her to think I didn't trust her judgment, especially after asking for her advice!So I schlepped home with my 'religious' book...
Hey, just try to imagine what it would be like to be thrown into a cramped tent, with a plethora of other menstruating women, in a time when tampons had yet to be invented.
Many people who read this book and then go back to the biblical texts are surprised to find that there are household gods and concubines and that Jacob used some rather superstitious means to breed spotted goats, that Rachel claimed having her period to hide the gods hidden in the sacks from her father Laban and that Dinah must have been of some importance because she is one of the few women who gets mentioned more than a few verses worth in the Pentateuch.Diamant uses her vast knowledge of the history of her faith and that time to flesh this story out in very real ways never perverting the original text.
Are you ready to go into the Red Tent?  JACOB’S DINASTY: THE REALITY SHOW  We have been lost to each other for so long. My name means nothing to you. My memory is dust. This is not your fault, or mine. The chain connecting mother to daughter was broken and the word passed to the keeping of men, who had no way of knowing. Disfunctional family falls short to describe Jacob’s household.Nowadays, it would be easily a high-rating TV reality show!Jacob, a weak man put into the stressing place of bein
Disfunctional family falls short to describe Jacob’s household.Nowadays, it would be easily a high-rating TV reality show!Jacob, a weak man put into the stressing place of being a patriarch of his race, manipulated by his scheming mother and later by his insidious sons.Leah, mostly a good woman BUT willingly played her role in a mean scheme to marry her sister’s boyfriend.Zilpah and Bilhah, with a image of “not killing a fly” but they make surgical comments with the sharp edge of a knife, whenever they can.Simeon and Levi, a couple of homicidal psychos, which they don’t hesitate to kill every single man in a settlement when those men were even unable to defend themselves or even selling one of their own brothers to slave traders.Rebekah, a mother who doesn’t hesitate to favor a son of hers over the other or throwing out a granddaughter from her tribe.Good thing that God already did a flood to rid of all the bad people!
Diamant's writing took me back to this time period, and instead of pointing out all that was bad and raw in a time we often look back on as savage and uncivilized, she points out and embraces everything that was wonderful.
I was also surprised how much these people embraced womanhood, when often when you hear about those times it's all about how women were submissive and cursed, born only to be slaves to men.
Do yourself a favor and sit down with this book, you will hear Dinah speak and you will feel the gritty, dirty, wonderful world she lives in.
Anita Diamant - image from her site The Red Tent offers a female perspective on the biblical tales of Jacob, father to the twelve tribes of Israel, and his family, people with some serious issues, who would be right at home on HBO, with copious quantities of blood and betrayal to hold one’s interest.
No coincidence that the bloodiness of birth and monthly cycles takes place in a red-colored space.Dinah’s secrecy about her own story in the novel reflects the omission of a female perspective from the tales and history we know from the bible.
Let me start by saying that if you're a moral conservative who believes in the Old Testament, I'd advise caution before reading this book.
That's not to say you shouldn't read it; just be aware beforehand that this is a story - nothing more - written by someone who has taken biblical names and accounts and re-formed them to suit her literary needs.
If you can accept that this is a story and not religious history, though, then I would recommend you read this book.
If you are aware of what you're reading,though, then I think you will enjoy this well-crafted tale.
The ONLY reason I read this is because a post-menopausal lady I worked with at the time said, "Hey this book is great you'll love it!
(There's a reason that Dinah is only mentioned ONCE in the Old Testament - let's not hype her up like she's Judith m'kay?) Not only does this book involve a whole lotta biblical time raping and loved-ones dying left and right, but it even ends depressing.
And every "time of the month", during the "red wave", all the women get sent to a "red tent" to bleed together in and bathe in.
The "Red Tent" follows the life of Jacob's daughter, Dinah, whose a minor character in the Book of Genesis.
Diamant pretty much expanded Dinah's story and it's told from her POV.
The red tent is the one place where these women have their own world and their own power.
You really won't get to see the red tent in the second half of the book, because Dinah is no longer with her mothers.
"The Red Tent" is like an acknowledgement for all the untold stories, for the forgotten characters, and for the struggles deemed unnecessary.
It is a first-person narrative that tells the story of Dinah, daughter of Jacob and sister of Joseph.
She is a minor character in the Bible, but the author has broadened her story.
The book's title refers to the tent in which women of Jacob's tribe must, according to the ancient law, take refuge while menstruating or giving birth, and in which they find mutual support and encouragement from their mothers, sisters and aunts.It begins with the story of her mothers--Leah, Rachel, Zilpah, and Bilhah--the four wives of Jacob.
My frustration with this book stemmed primarily from the depiction of the various characters.
I liked the writing, I liked the way Diamant addresses the contemporary socio-cultural issues, and I thought the characterization was quite vivid--I just didn't agree with the way the characters were presented.
And I especially didn't like the sexual depictions in this text.
While I fully recognize that there's going to be some of that in any story about a man with four wives and 13 children, I really didn't like the way it was handled or presented--it was much more about lust than about love or following the Lord's commandments.
It doesn't matter at all what is fiction and what is history in this book - it is just as lovely to imagine what it would be like if such a custom as "the red tent" did exist.
I would say that life itself taught the women to love each other.
Many readers disparage Diamant's characterizations of the men in the novel.
Men and women do see things differently.
What a bore if we were all the same!I loved the book because it taught me a bit about biblical times and it gave me a lot to ponder.
While I enjoyed the parts about midwifery and wish that a place like the Red Tent really did exist, I think that the author got the story all wrong.
But I think it does a great injustice to Jacob to say that he wouldn't have taught his wives about Jehovah, and a greater injustice to think that Rachel and Leah would have continued to worship idols even after they had learned about the one true God. Anyway, while I didn't like the author's take on the story I did really love idea of the Red Tent and the birth stories.
Dinah is forgotten in the house of Jacob.*2018 Re-read *Recently I watched the 2014 two part episode of this book starring Minnie Driver, Rebecca Ferguson, and Iain Glen.
Like any good reader that has read a book years before a screen version(and Goodread) appears, I wanted to see how my memory has held up and if this book still has that "wow" factor that I recall.
The female relationships are the very core of this story and Anita Diamant does a stunning job of breathing new life into the Leah/Rachel/Jacob drama in the OT book of Genesis by focusing on Jacob and Leah's daughter Dinah.
Qué belleza de libro. Me quedo sobre todo con el final, precioso y redondo y con el significado de la palabra madre. La que te trae al mundo pero no solo ella, también las maestras que encontramos a lo largo de nuestra vida, las amigas, las mujeres que te quieren. Es cierto que hay muchísima presencia masculina y la mayoría de las cosas giran en torno a los hombres. Aún así, se respira la sororidad, el apoyo y el amor entre mujeres. Me he sentido abrigada leyéndolo, y con esa sensación me voy.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ Ouch. What a slog this friggin’ thing was. The Red Tent has literally been pushed on me by real life friends/family/acquaintances for the past 10 years. Being a not-so-religious type of gal, I actively avoided it knowing it would most likely not be my cuppa, as well as to keep the peace. When the library challenge came around requesting readers to “push their shelf” I figured it was time to bite the bullet. Now I only hope that this d
It confirms the theory that if you put a group of females together long enough, they will all surf the crimson wave at the same time each month.It also is a great example of how we should maintain the sanctity of marriage between and a man and a woman FOUR women.
Yeah, don’t let those homosexuals cheapen things, let’s go back to sisterwives of the bible times!
Save your breath.The one thing this book did was prove that all the religious zealots are just as fucking nutty as I always thought they were.
2 Stars (barely).Book #3 in my quest for new free crap.
I had to read "The Red Tent" for a book club I was in a few years ago.
The ritual stuff with the onset of menstruation - perhaps my memory is playing tricks with me, but I seem to recall a weird segment that sounded like some Tantric-drumming-circle workshop in the mountains that a co-worker described to me years ago, which included a dildo carved out of stone (the bit in the book, not the drumming circle the co-worker attended).
If this segment was historically accurate, well then all I can say is: "Them was the bad ol' days."3.
Though I should add that some religious people, especially those who believe Bible to be literally true, may be offended and I can see them accusing Ms Diamant of distorting the "truth." Warning: the following reveals some details from the plot.I was surprised how much I was taken in by Dinah and felt emotionally connected to her, e,g., when she dislikes Rebecca, I did too; when she curses Jacob, I was cursing him with her; when she was moved to tears with grief or happiness, I was on the verge of tears myself.
I think the credit goes to Ms. Diamant for developing her characters, especially, but not only, Dinah, in a manner that I totally found believable and it transported me from my world to that of Dinah.
I don't know if it is the combination of female trials and tribulations, a reminder to treasure our mothers and to remember our past that made me love this, against my will, but something about this book broke the barrier and it has been on my shelf for a good ten years and it has been read at least three times since it arrived.
The story, whilst loosely based on the biblical tale of Dinah and the formation of the tribe of Israel is liberally adapted to shape Diamant's requirements and woman's perspective (if not a feminist one).
The reason is that there are just too many interesting events in it and so many unforgettable characters whose stories can be told and retold many times but we will not be tired hearing about them.One of these stories is that of Isaac and Sara who have two sons, Esau and Jacob.
Jacob steals the firstborn title from Esau with the help of Sara.
All of these become Jacob's wives giving him his 12 sons and only one daughter: Dinah.
She only extended and expanded what she thought could have been the untold story and she did it beautifully.It is an easy read.
It is written by Anita Diamant, and does a wonderful job of giving motivation to all the things that happen from the time Jacob meets Rachel through where Simeon (she calls him Simon) and Levi kill Dinah's husband.
As I read about the ties of womanhood, I realize what she was thinking of as she gave me this book, for she and I, and she and my mother, and I and her mother are all tied together by many of the red strings that Ms Diamant speaks of.
It tracks the life of a quaternary character in Genesis, Dinah, from before her birth to after her death.
(And if that sounds a little melodramatic, that's because the novel itself strikes that melodramatic tone).Diamant writes in a beautiful voice, and develops stirring and evocative passages describing both the internal and external environs of Dinah's life.
Too much description of the unimportant things, not enough of the ones that affect the story.Overall, The Red Tent is not a book for me.
I can't identify with the themes of the book, and the shortcomings in the writing are substantial enough that I'm unable to bridge that gap.
The first time I read this book years ago my frustration stemmed from primarily the depiction of the various characters. And I mean ALOT of characters.However, this time I decided to read it slowly so that I could focus and absorb the characters and the story.I loved the celebration of a strong female character and heroine. I loved Dinah's quiet strength, her confidence and her self-awareness.Anita Diamant was able to sweep me up and carry me away to another time and place.A place where there is a "Red Tent" that I wish was here.
I loved reading from the perspective of a woman in the Old Testament.
I have been told many-a-time that I am an individual who CHOOSES to be naive and for that reason, I didn't like the way the author portrayed some of the characters--some of my heroes--from the OT.
There were just some disturbing things in there--like Jacob masturbating--(there is worse than that in the book, believe me) that I thought were AWFUL.
So for the most part, I just didn't like it.
If you are at all familiar with the OT, don't read this book!
This book is good, in the sense that she takes an interesting concept (a bit of the bible) and expounds upon it.
The red tent - refers to a place the woman all go when ill, giving birth or menstruating.
I can think of nothing worse than having to spends DAYS in a tent with a bunch of ill, birthing and/or hormonal women.
Now, I have nothing at all against midwives, in fact, I think women who labor and give birth at home (as long as they are healthy enough to do so) are kick ass.
EVER.5.uh.*"relations" and "know" tweak me when describing sex.
i can't remember the last time a book made me cry.
(Midrash, gotta love it) ;-)the only people i have ever met, who actually believed Dinah was "raped" (as recorded in the Bible) have been men...
granted, that might say something about the circles i tend to move in (hasidic) and our propensity for personal interpretation of the scriptures (to an embarrassing degree, at times) but any woman, rebbetzin/wife/mother/sister/otherwise, which i have discussed this story with (speaking of the scripture) mirrored my smirk right back at me, and said the same as i did "i bet she fell in love..
It bothered me for years after reading this book all the inferences surrounding Joseph and Dina.
I have since come to a conculusion that the only reason this author could come up with for Joseph refusing to sleep with Potifer's wife is that he was gay and not chaste.
I think it is insulting to our intellegence and moral beliefs to assume that only someone who is gay would deny sexual encounters with the opposite sex.
It bothers me to think of our Israelite fathers as immoral as they were implied to be and Dina as being as foolish as to let her Egyptian mother in-law become the decision making parent for her son.
Yes, I know it is a fact of life, but come on, do you have to be so uncouth?
I lose a lot of respect for authors who feel that by writing about such basic human things that they are somehow being truthful and honest.
On another level of disgust was the treatment of the men.
But I guess double standards are ok if you are politically correct.Probably the most offensive of all to me was the degrading portrayal of holy men of the Bible as being 'human' like you and me.
The Red Tent is one of my favorite books.
I didn’t give it five stars because it’s a little too controversial and I was disappointed with the ending of Rachel, Leah, Zilpah, & Bilhah’s characters, but everything else I absolutely absorbed and loved.
The characters in the book were so well developed and loved.
I loved the relationship between Dinah and her first husband; her relationship with her second husband was wonderful too.
I loved the relationship of the women/mothers of Dinah.
There was so much to enjoy in this book.

