https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71296.The_Mansions_of_the_Gods
I always liked Mansions of the Gods but re-reading it today I didn’t realise how damn funny it is!
The architect slowly becomes a nervous wreck and it’s glorious!
There’s some subtext I didn’t notice when reading this as a kid: Rene Goscinny and Albert Uderzo appear to be criticising trade unions as they’re portrayed here as greedy and encouraging laziness in workers.
The Mansions of the Gods is another great Asterix comic that reads just as well - maybe better?
It’s a good laugh and an excellent comic.
The Mansions of the Gods (Astérix #17), René Goscinny, Albert Uderzo
Funny facts: Caesar speaks in third person.The Gothic slaves insist on singing Silent Night (the German carol).
The slaves and the Roman legionaries form Trade Unions.
Romans are given a two-page promotional brochure/slab about the Mansions of the Gods with modern estate-agent jargon.A Vestal-Virgin is the hostess on the raffle to pick the new estate's first residents.Cacofonix again saves the day again with his extraordinary talent.
He gets rewarded Cacofonix is duly awarded with a place at the feast.The family of birds re-appear and (and Dogmatix)laments on cutting down trees.Here's the puzzle: The freed slaves are revealed as The Pirates???
Capolavoro: dall’idea di Cesare di affogare i galli nel progresso (riducendo il villaggio a una bidonville ai margini di una grande e moderna città) agli interventi urbanistici nella grande foresta, dalla caratterizzazione degli schiavi (con la sottotrama che li riguarda) alle vicende della coppia romana che va a vivere nel residence costruito accanto al villaggio, si passa da una trovata geniale all’altra, tutte funzionali alla riuscita della storia.Le vette: il “non pieghevole” in marmo distribuito agli spettatori del Circo Massimo per illustrare i pregi del residence e il dramma degli alberi sradicati che vengono fatti ricrescere.
Eräs parhaista. Gallialaisten taistelu edistystä vastaan on vain hillitön kaikkine markkinatalouden mekanismeineen ja orjien työehtoneuvotteluineen.
Yksi parhaista, ellei jopa paras, Asterix!
Ceasar never seems to run out of ideas to conquer the last Gaulish village not yet conquered by the Romans.
He plans to civilize the village with the Mansions of the Gods: instead of a forest, there shall be a Roman settlement surrounding the village.
As soon as Squareonthehypotenus touches the first tree, though, it’s Dogmatix who can’t restraint himself anymore – never hurt a tree while this little brave dog is watching, or you’ll be in trouble.After some days fooling the Romans, Getafix decides that Squareonthehypotenus shall finish the first building.
Following the explosive riots of May 1968, Goscinny took Asterix in a direction with increasing content referring to current political events in France.
This album represents both his dig against technocracy (the young urban planner), the gigantic "villes nouvelles" (new cities) of high-rises which were being created around Paris and especially advertising — the promotion of the Domain of the Gods which reads like a parody of soon-to-be erected golden real estate investment opportunity."Wiki summary:"With the intent to wipe out the Gaulish village by any means necessary, Caesar concocts a plan to absorb the villagers into Roman culture by having an estate built next to the village to start a new Roman colony.

Ähnlich wie bei Streit um Asterix versucht man auch hier wieder die Dorfgemeinschat zu teilen. Hier durch den Bau einer römischen Stadt im Umfeld des gallischen Dorfes. Den Einwohnern soll wohl das Gefühl von Wohlstand und der Umgang mit römischen Zivilisten nahe gebracht werden - eine Veränderung der Denkweise, eine Assimilierung der Dorfgemeinschaft ist das Ziel.Niemand - insbesondere nicht die Römer - hat mit dem Einsatz der gallischen Geheimwaffe gerechnet.
Yay I found an Asterix book i hadn't read. A good book but not one of the best.
I've never read this before. This Asterix was really good. It's ashame, that trees don't grow as fast as Getafix' instant-growth trees.
Asterix et al take on the might of avaricious proerty developers, and quite right too.
A clever, witty story.Caesar decides to encircle the village with a housing development, musing that it will soon force them to adopt Roman ways. The only problem is that the trees felled by the Romans to make room for the development mysteriously grow back again and again.A solid, funny entry. A few gags are a bit stale, though.
In this one, Asterix and Obelix have to deal with Ceaser's latest strategy to bring the Gauls under Roman rule. He is building blocks of flats around the Gaulish village and moving Romans into them. Mayhem ensues.
one of the Asterix stories i missed as a child which is a shame as it's a cracking tale.
Everybody wants the latest in trends.
This is the best way to learn French!
Trur kanskje denne er på topp fem
Le Domaine des Dieux - René GoscinnyRating: ★★★Review coming soon!
Absolutely Fantastic
Mestariteos, yksityiskohtia myöten. Näin valloitetaan. Tässä on historiaa, taloutta, sosiologiaa ja vaikka mitä juuri niin kuin hommat menee.
Asterix takes on the developers14 October 2013 When I think of the theme of the Asterix's albums as being the struggle between the modern and the traditional (though traditional is probably a bad word because it is more to me like the idyllic, such as the small country town with its mum and pop businesses) this the the album that comes to mind. Basically Ceaser hatches a new plan to subdue the Gaulish village, and that is to destroy the forest and build a city around them. He then plans to move
This is clear in the scene where the Roman inhabitants of the new apartment block decide that they do not want to go to the Roman camps for their supplies, but to the village, and start buying swords (or rather antiques) and fish at prices that Unhygenix and Fullyautomatix have never understood.
We see the village existing as a community and as a family, however the Romans, who represent modernism thinly disguised as civilisation, are seen as being a destructive force.
The thing is, now forty years after this album was written, those of us in the city notice the disconnect of society and the dog eat dog nature of our civilisation.
História bem engendrada e construída em que se caricaturiza os mecanismso económicos e de mercado actuais, desde o imobiliário, á espculação de preços, à concorrência, etc.César planeia destruir a aldeia Gaulesa romanizando-os, isto é contrata um arquiteto para criar um empreendimento imobiliário, a que chama apelativamente, o domínio dos deuses, à volta da aldeia e habitado por romanos cuja proximidade viria a destruir os hábitos e identidade da aldeia.
Porém, o objetivo romano é sabotado pela mágica do druida que consegue fazer que os esforços de devastar as árvores da floresta, para construir casas, nunca resultem.
Así, en primera instancia, su lucha es ecológica: mientras las huestes de Anguloagudus, constituidas por esclavos de toda la geografía del Imperio, deforestan por la noche, con sigilo y para evitar posibles represalias “bárbaras” (galas), los incómodos y temibles vecinos deshacen su trabajo merced a la pócima de Panorámix y a unas semillas de crecimiento instantáneo.
Ideafix, el primer –y único- perro ecologista de la historia, asiste con deleite a las acciones de sus amos, enfrascados en reemplazar todo árbol caído y en desgastar así a un enemigo al que llevan al borde de la capitulación.
Si el argumento se hubiera detenido aquí, y hubiera estirado de todas las maneras posibles esta premisa, habría acabado por repetirse y saturarse.
The Romans' latest scheme to conquer that village of pesky hold-outs in Gaul is to tear down the forest surrounding the village and put up a town center, complete with apartments, gardens, shops, and a circus.
Neither Asterix and his friends nor the Romans camped around the village are impressed with his plan.
As the new arrivals start to tear down trees, Gaulish druid Getafix gives Asterix and Obelix some magic seeds to regrow the fallen trees.
The premise is fun though the Romans don't get very far in their plans.
Otherwise the story is harmless fun.
Dopo aver scombussolato non poco la vita dei nostri amici Galli, però, i Romani dovranno vedersela con la scaltrezza di Asterix e Obelix che cercheranno in tutti i modi di riprendersi la foresta.Forse l'albo che strizza di più l'occhio alle manie del mondo moderno (i condomini, i centri commerciali, gli intrattenimenti) Il Regno degli dei é l'albo in cui, forse più di altri, vale il detto l'unione fa la forza.
Gli schiavi si ribellano, i soldati fanno rivendicazioni sindacali e i Galli si riuniscono quando uno di loro si trova in difficoltà.Splendide la tavola che riproduce il non-pieghevole pubblicitario in marmo e quella della battaglia nel condominio.Da questa avventura é stato tratto il film più recente di Asterix e Obelix con lo stesso titolo.
The Asterix series of comics always had elements of political, historical and socio-cultural satire in amongst its fun-filled storytelling and layers of humour, but in THE MANSIONS OF THE GODS this strongly comes to the fore.
The Romans have come up with a new plan to try to overcome our beloved village of indomitable Gauls: build some luxury high-rise housing.
As Asterix, Obelix, Getafix, Vitalstatistix and all our other favourites try to work out how to deal with this latest threat, creators Goscinny and Uderzo are able to skewer many aspects of modern life, such as the naked ambition for dollars, comfort, and modern conveniences that can threaten communities and breakdown the social fabric.
Asterix en Obelix en hul dorpsgenote moet 'n nuwe plan van Julius Caesar die hoof bied: in die plek van die woud wat die dorpie beskerm moet daar 'n Romeinse dorp opgerig word sodat die "barbare" gekultiveer kan word.
Werk dit?
Goscinny en Uderzo se verhaal is groot pret, soos meestal in die Asterix-reeks.
Dit sny belangrike sake aan, soos ontwikkeling, omgewingsimpak, slawerny ensovoorts, maar altyd op 'n humoristiese wyse.Van Schalkwyk-Barrois se vertaling sprankel soos gewoonlik.
Hierdie aflewering in die reeks Afrikaanse vertalings is weer eens 'n waardige toevoeging.This episode in the Asterix series brings new challenges to the village: cultural and economic ones.
Una grande storia. Come vincere finalmente gli irriducibili galli? Caio Giulio ha l'idea di incaricare un architetto di costruire palazzine di appartamenti ai limiti della foresta, farle abitare da civili che col tempo avrebbero romanizzato pacificamente il villaggio. Asterix e Panoramix lasciano fare almeno inizialmente, anche per permettere la liberazione degli schiavi. Ma poi capiscono che il piano di Cesare sta avendo successo, e con una trovata magistrale riappacificano e riuniscono il villaggio contro i Romani.
