https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20764879-a-gathering-of-shadows
Delilah Bard had a way of finding trouble. I just love everything about this world. Read it in a single day and I cannot wait for the next book.I think I'm a bit of an unintentionally picky reader when it comes to fantasy. A lot of YA fantasy is heavy on the romance and low on the substance, which irks me, but I don't take much pleasure in overlong, dense, wordy adult fantasy series either. I want exciting world-building, strong characters and good pacing that doesn't sacrifice depth. And I fee
The author uses this tournament to draw the characters together, to create action and excitement, whilst behind it all there looms a dark threat.With rich, evocative storytelling, an original, fantastically-conceived fantasy world, and colourful, weird characters, it's hard to complain.
The book buzzes with magical secrets and new discoveries; like an adult version of Narnia, it is a way of walking through the wardrobe and facing all the wonderful and horrifying possibilities.I enjoyed Kell's new experiences, as he comes to term with the lasting effects of what happened in the last book.
“I know where you sleep, Bard.”She smirked. “Then you know I sleep with knives.”*It's hard to believe that A GATHERING OF SHADOWS comes out in less than three months!!!
love the writing, love the world, LOVE THESE CHARACTERS. the ending hurt my soul but fortunately i have book 3 to jump into immediately.
Seriously stay away.I think it’s better for me to start off with the parts I like about the book first, there’s only a few anyway.
BUT none of them can compare to the ultimate Mary Sue, Delilah fucking bard, the Wonder Woman, the alien, the predator, whatever she is cause she doesn’t know too.I was led to believe the main character of this series is Kell, I was wrong.
Also, if you’re wondering why I’m reading this series, it’s because VE Schwab tricked me completely into thinking that this will be an adult oriented book like her ‘Vicious’ (which I love) and IT’S NOT!
Please tell me more about how there are kinds of girls.More fun stuff: I literally hate all of these characters.
We follow four-ish main characters: Alucard, Rhy, Kell and Lila.
(Putting Lila last because, if you couldn’t already tell by the fury leaking through this, she is the crown jewel in my treasure trove of loathing.)The fun thing about this book is we get two - yes, two!
It’s annoying and boring and makes me want to sign V.E. Schwab up for an intro to creative writing class.But that’s not where my problems end with ol’ Lila.
Reviewed by: Rabid Reads4.5 starsAuthors of series like to do this thing where they give you a first installment that while, of course, leaving unanswered questions, still manages to conclude nice and neatly.You can't wait to get your hands on the next book, but only b/c you love the story and are desperate to see what happens next.
Things happen in A DARKER SHADE OF MAGIC, and those things have CONSEQUENCES.
And what would you say if I told you that you only think you've seen chaos in White London?Last year, A DARKER SHADE OF MAGIC made my Best Books of 2015 list.
“Who needs magic when you look this good?”This book set fire to my feelings and shattered my mind.
Lila is a unique character but Saints she annoyed me in the end.
Rhy is one of my favourite ever characters and even if everything goes to ruins, as long as Rhy and Alucard are together in the end, I will be satisfied.But no, really, I don't know where this is going.
Lila will probably save Kell, I guess.
And I won't be surprised if one or more important characters end up dead.
My spoiler discussion is now up on my channel!: https://youtu.be/jTE6aTbosjUTHAT ENDING DESTROYED ME SOMEONE GIVE ME THE NEXT BOOK RIGHT NOW
THIS SERIES IS EVERYTHING TO ME..THIS SEQUEL WAS AMAZINGELEMENTAL CONTROL..YES..YES..GIVE ME MOREMOREI SAIDmorePLEASEI'm cryingi need the next book..omg
so where i thought the first book excelled in its world building by introducing the four different londons and their histories, i found the sequel gave amazing insight into the characters, more of their development was prevalent, and it even introduced some new key people.
but rather, this felt like a seamless, yet crucial, part of bridge that connects all three books.
again, this was a little bit of a slow burner, but it was much easier for me to get into because i felt like there was a little more going on.
*laughs hysterically* *choking sound*Why, thank you, Victoria Schwab. Please don't mind my heart. No, really. Feel free to crush it. I don't do holding grudges. Much. 4.5 stars . Truth is, when I started A Gathering of Shadows, one of my best friend asked me if I thought she would like, and strangely, I wasn't able to answer straight away. Color me surprised. How comes this series holds such a strong grip on me and still I am hesitating when recommending it? I understood, then. These books? They
You're enchanted, mesmerized like a child reading HP for the first time (YES, I'M GOING THERE), your eyes widening at the sight of this wondrous, original world served by its fascinating and real characters for whom you can't help but care deeply, including : ✔ a kickass thief who's giving strong female-lead a new name (that's Lila, by the way) : Remember my complaints about Feyre in A Court of Thorns and Roses?
from the publisher's perspective, obviously it's always better when you can set your cover price in the ten bucks higher adult-market range, but since this is such a pretty book, i'm okay with that THIS TIME, even though it's such a fast read, you'll tear through it like you're at a cookie party.
that thing kell did in the last book for rhy has consequences both physical and psychological, and has caused a great deal of tension in his relationship with the king and queen.
#1 A Darker Shade of Magic ★★★★★#2 A Gathering of Shadows ★★★★★#3 A Conjuring of Light ★★★★★I cannot believe that I waited nearly a year between the first book and this one, but here we are, and now I’m convinced that Victoria sacrificed an unhealthy number of virgins for her writing skills, because this series is absolute magnificence.
Besides the wonderful cast of characters (including one special individual who I’m not going to mention here for fear of spoiling anyone, but let me say that I am absolutely ecstatic to see things through his perspective on occasion, and terrified to see what he will do next), there’s also the fact that, once again, Victoria proves her writing prowess through incredible action scenes and magical world-building.
I feel I can't even put into words how I feel about this book - but I'm going to try anyway.To start, I liked "A Darker Shade of Magic" (book #1 in this series) a lot - but I wasn't out of my mind in love.
The story was good- but it left me wanting more to happen to the characters (which was perfect, because I knew there was a sequel coming out.) And I'm not gonna lie...
Lila and Kell are apart for a very good chunk of this book.
I refuse to discuss the ending right now.
The Londons just seem to SPARKLE OFF THE PAGE and also just the details that make the other countries stand out is really great writing• I want to take a moment to acknowledge Tirin (sorrry I have no idea how his name is spelt #audiobookproblems) and how the prince brothers are giving him grey hair and all he does for them• Rhy being a sassy little bucket is the best.• Rhy and Kell being moody but sassy and aggressively caring for each other is also the best.• TOTAL LOVE for how Schwab writes her characters.
I SALUTE ANYONE THAT HAD TO LIVE MORE THAN AN ENTIRE YEAR DANGLING OFF THAT BRUTAL CLIFFHANGER OH MY HOLY FUCKRemember when I called A Darker Shade of Magic a slow-burner? HA. Well. This one just burns you alive and makes you enjoy every fiery second of it. WHAT A RIDE.I'm far too impatient to get on with the next book, so here's a random assortment of my thoughts and feelings on this glorious work of new adult literature...(((kindasorta spoilers incoming))) Things I thought I wouldn't like: • L
• Lila and Kell being separated for the most part• New major characters aka Alucard Emery• The descriptive writing style and pace• Scenes in White London
• Lila and Kell being separated for the most part• New major characters aka Alucard Emery• The descriptive writing style and pace• Scenes in White LondonIt's amazing really.
E. Schwab's writing goes beyond measure for me this time round and I am sold by her compelling storytelling style.
Simultaneously laughing and crying. Can I give this book more than five stars? Because it deserves at least forty.
With this second book, Schwab decided to focus on her characters : their well-done development, their complexity, their struggles against their own demons, the dynamics as well as the relationships between all of them, creating the feeling as if we were close to them, as if we deeply knew them up to their darkest secrets and feelings, making us care about them to the point where I was scared all the time for my babies and couldn’t bear the thought of any of them getting hurt.
OH NO YOU DIDN’T, VICTORIA.I LOVE THESE CHARACTERS SO MUCH, AND WHEN KELL CRIES, MY HEART BREAKS.AND RHY. SUCH A PRECIOUS PRINCE. SUCH A PRECIOUS BROTHER. PLEASE LET HIM BE HAPPY, IS THAT TOO MUCH TO ASK? MY SWEET BABY. Lila, you must save them all.4,5 stars.
2.5 - Barely anything happened in this book. There didn't need to be a full book to set up the little bit that happened at the end. 2.5 stars because it's neutral. Not horrible (I liked the new characters) but it felt like a waste mostly. Video review to come.
I have issuesUNMARKED SPOILERS EVERYWHERE!!!!AND SWEARING, LOTS OF IT EVERYWHEREAND EXTREME HATE ON LILA THE GARBAGE CAN EVERYWHERE!!!!I’m not even kidding when I say this book pissed me off to the point where I physically felt the need to rip the goddamn fucking pages and fucking burn them and throw this fucking book out the goddamn window with every ounce of strength I've fucking got.
UGH SHE PISSES ME SO MUCH I WANT HER TO DIE.●she is such an infuriating bitch.●she is really fucking dumb.●KELL TOLD HER that she'll pay a price for that magic, yet she goes ahead and ignores him, ACTs SO CHILL WHEN SHE KNOWS LITERALLY NOTHING ABOUT THE fucking magic.
I liked it, but I just didn't quite love it.Interested, but not invested.Which means I didn't rush out to grab a copy of this one, because I just wasn't sure how excited I actually was to read it.However, my trepidation was unwarranted.
Plus, (and I love it when a book does this) I caught myself saying stuff out loud while I was reading.Like: Oh, shit!
Very EXCITING!Sadly, I'm so late to this party, and there are so many fantastic reviews up already that I don't feel the need to waste your (very valuable, I'm sure) time re-hashing the plot.I will say I think this one is worth your time, even if you weren't a huge fan of book #1.
4.5 starsshit
I found the second book to be better than the first honestly, it's pacing was a lot better and the tension built all way to the end so that I felt like bursting when I finished the book and it left off where it did.
Also I really liked seeing Lila soften up a little and get a less controlled version of Kell.
I know there's been a lot of hype around the books so people end up not liking it as much because of their expectations but I think if you go into without expectations I think it makes it way easier to appreciate the books.
I got to read more of the bad arsed, Lila Bard and Kell and Rhy!
I loved the beginning of this book with Lila.
People for me, this was the best part of the book with what all Lila did to that crew!
I feel it's just another set up for more things to come in the next book.
I loved reading about Kell and Rhy together again.
To read the things that only love for someone you consider your brother can bring to your heart.
For both of us." Kell held his brother's gaze.
"All right,"he said.And Lila and Kell get to see each other again.
*screeches and runs to Amazon to order ACoL IMMEDIATELY*
Delilah Bard is from this London.➽ Red London - (smells like flowers) is the home of the main protagonist, Kell, where he and his royal family rule.
Everyone in this London tries to fight for magic and power within this corrupt city.➽ Black London - (we don't know what it smells like) and is still basically a mystery.
It truly is all I need in this life.Delilah Bard is one of the best characters I've ever had the pleasure of reading about.
But if you do like character driven stories, this book is home to four amazing ones!
Various people from the different empires come together for competitions and celebrations and it is being held in Red London.
I LOVE HIM and was happy that he was shown more in this- More Magic: Through the games, we get to see various magicians display their powers- Rhy and Kell: I just love their bond and how they would do anything for each other!!- The introduction of charming new characters such as Alucard and HastraWhat I did not like- The book was on the slow side until it got closer to the end.
Her writing style alone accounts for at least 1.5 stars of my rating.
I will definitely be completing this series when it finishes in 2017, because I have a favorite & I wanna know how their story ends.
I did so only because I was trying to get through it quickly for my book club deadline, but the narrators for this installment left a lot to be desired.***UPDATE: I didn't find out until recently that this series is actually intended to read like an Adult Fantasy.
It reads very much like YA Fantasy.**
I quite liked A Darker Shade of Magic, well this is now 508 pages, this is going to be long, but it has a 4.32 average on goodreads so it must be good right?!
If you love this book I’d suggest you don’t read this because I honestly couldn’t stand it.
I don’t think I’ve been so let down by a second book in a series since Glass Sword, and we all know how that went.
Characters I liked I now cannot stand, but we will get to that later.What is the second book about?
