https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1044658.The_Constitution_of_Liberty
HayekThis is Hayek's magnum opus, a long (but not too long) book that combines his previous studies in economics and political theory to explore the nature of freedom and liberty to answer the eternal question, "What system will deliver the most freedom to the most people?" If you are at all familiar with Hayek's thought, his answer shouldn't surprise you; he was a true believer in liberal democracy and free markets; a descendant simultaneously of John Locke and Adam Smith.
What is surprising about this book is his analysis of the contemporary (1960) political scene, where Hayek saw very little freedom, even in countries that seemed to offer its citizens limitless personal license.
On top of this, Hayek crucially admits that the state may well, without infringing on human liberty, provide a wide range of social services (usually supported by socialists but also many classical liberals), including, but not limited to, social security, basic education, zoning laws, housing rules, public parks, roads, bridges, spreading important information, supporting universities, protecting wildlife reserves, etc.
An uncharitable interpretation is that he was a moderate socialist in his early years (his own words) and while Mises convinced him that socialist calculation is "impossible," the spirit of interventionism never really left him.
I find it useful to understand the history and intent behind a work of nonfiction when interpreting it, but I ultimately want to look at the words on the page rather than trying to divine what an author *really* meant when writing what he wrote.
By the standard, I unfortunately read Hayek's policy prescriptions demonstrating the latter interpretation.
There is quite a lot of interesting history here (including a quick overview of the evolution of the Rechtsstaat in Prussia that was killed in the cradle by Bismarck), and a well-developed analysis of what does and does not qualify as the "Rule of Law." The third part was the hardest to get through, and in some ways the most anachronistic for a modern reader (the book was written in 1960, after all), but still worth the effort.
This section concerned itself with the modern welfare state, and the ways in which Hayek's concept of freedom and the rule of law could still be compatible with many of the aims of the welfare state, but seldom are.
He says for instance that the consumption of the rich is what drives innovation because the rich can pay for expensive things and it would be a necessary step between an idea for an invention and the mass production of this invention...
As a list of inventions can easily demonstrate, governmental organizations (followed by the middle class) were actually the most common (by far) investors in the first steps of what we use in our day-to-day life : computer (British and American armies), internet (American and European public research centers), most medical inventions and discoveries (hospitals and universities financed by the government and the middle class), photography & cinema & plane (French and American middle class with some subsidies), mobile phone (American government), car (German middle class), microwave oven (the allies during WW II) etc.So, it is an authoritative (and boring) book that defends ideas that would lead to a plutocracy.
Hayek is difficult to read, but once you get into it, his language is beautiful and most direct.He explains WHAT liberty is and shows that most people across history and nations actually have rejected true liberty.
(duh) He explain WHAT liberty DOES.
Thus he shows WHY we want liberty.
So, if we know why we want liberty then we have a reason to stand up for it.He explains the concept of spontaneous order.
He also contrasts the two disparate theories of liberty and democracy.
It is about human instigated planning of society and popular democracy.
He acknowledged the dangers and risks of freedom, to include the "freedom to starve, to make costly mistakes, or to run mortal risks." (p 69) However, the cost of trying to make people "safe" from such risks is to take away their freedom and subject them to the decisions of another, who may be as (or more) susceptible to making the same mistakes, while at the same time, diminishing those who lose their liberty: "Coercion is evil precisely because is thus eliminates an individual as a thinking and valuing person and makes him a bare tool in the achievement of the ends of another." (p 71)The reason coercive methods always lead to outcomes sub-optimal compared to freedom in the long run stems back to an argument that Hayek is perhaps most famous for making, that no individual or even small group (like a committee) can learn, understand, and act on sufficient knowledge to make the optimal decisions.
In other words, there will - by definition - be no consensus on redistribution, leading to favoritsm and arbitrariness, and destroying the incentives for individual people to better their lifes.In a free market (i.e. radical individual freedom), Hayek says, the economic elite will, because of their better position, pave the way technologically, socially and culturally for the betterment of the rest of society.
In a fully functioning liberal society, people can use their money to help their friends and family, so the need for a system of social welfare is non-existent.
Finished this finally. This is in the prescribed reading list of Princeton University's Department of Politics for Public Law. Wonderful critique on Socialism a.k.a Communism. And why Conservatism is not the opposite to Communism/Socialism.
He occasionally hits one some very important points (namely, the difference between a classical liberal and democratic society, the importance of the rule of law, the possible appropriateness of government providing "common goods", etc.).
His insistence on the legitimacy of providing "social security" irritates me to no end, as anyone should be able to see how government will abuse that notion in a democracy to undermine the very rule of law Hayek says is so damn important!
He's trying to have his cake (liberty) and eat it too (social security programs), and it just doesn't work.
Thomas Sowell and others whet my appetite for a more in-depth look at socio-economic studies, so I took a stab at Hayek’s magnum opus.
This is a tremendous repository of wisdom for citizens of any nation.
Hayek’s commentary on issues from unionism to taxation to social security to state coercion reads as though it was taken from present-day political discussions rather than a 5-decade-old treatise.
This is a more openly ideological work than most books on economic theory, but Hayek’s razor-sharp intellect makes his arguments in favor of limited government and free markets sound like the height of accepted wisdom.
A must-read for anyone in any kind of policymaking position.
I can respect what Hayek was doing here and hence I gave it a few more stars than I would like and a few less than it probably deserves.
Hayek wants to create a society that is free of coercion.
This is an excellent idea and the logic is sound within its own bubble.
However, he settles on a system that is built out of coercion: capitalism.
Furthermore, he settles on a dichotomy of capitalism/free markets vs socialism/communism.
Regardless of your stance on the book, it is definitely a must read if you are interested in alternative and utopian economic systems to better understand the whole picture.
Hayek discusses with great sympathy the development of the common law and of American constitutionalism -- particularly as exemplified by James Madison.In Part III of the book, Hayek applies his ideas about the proper role of government in allowing the exercise of individual liberty to various components of the modern welfare state.
Thus Dworkin would claim that Hayek overemphasizes the value of competitiveness and lack of state economic regulation in the development of Hayek's concept of liberty.The British political thinker Isaiah Berlin seems to suggest to me, as I read Hayek's argument, that there are other human goods in addition to liberty, as Hayek defines liberty.
Having said that, it is also true that his argument is opinion, not necessarily fact.The author’s thesis is that central government planning is far less effective for progress of society than freedom to strive and invent by individuals sharing insight and risk.
This is in conflict with his own thesis but he seemed not to recognize this fact.Later in the book he acknowledges the needs for a society that takes care of those who cannot help themselves, though he worries about a democratic government where the majority, who are poorer, may stop the progress of the valued members of society, the entrepreneur.
Some of my favorite points that Hayek made are: the avoidance of coercion and planning as much as possible and especially when it’s arbitrary; the importance of societal growth through experimentation; the rule of law and avoiding privilege.
Perhaps my favorite idea though is the importance of liberty in attaining our greatest potential in this life.
For us to progress individually and as a species we need to be able to choose the different paths that seem best to each of us - even if those choices end up not being the best.
If you have the fortitude to persevere it’s a great read.
For instance, from the perspective of 2017 I wonder if Hayek would have devoted a chapter to “Labor Unions and Employment”.
Although in principle his points are well-taken, the threat posed by unions today is quite different from what he feared from the perspective of 1959 (in the U.S. today unions are only a relevancy in the public sector, and the issues they raise might more properly be placed in his chapter on social security and pensions).
Still, most of the topics remain highly relevant today and the issues (seen from both sides) surprisingly similar.
That chapter does qualify as a Timeless Classic.
If I were to describe this book, I would describe it as a strong and willful horse plowing field after field while chewing the food it finds.
The fields are the topics in politics that Hayek discusses and chews on.
The soil is the current ideas in politics.
The plow is the arguments that turns that soil upside down.
No, this is pretty raw and can sometimes feel like it’s dragging, especially when the plow hits the ground full of rocks.
Other times the reading is a breeze, when the soil is good and ready.
When it’s done, you feel richer and ready to pick up a shovel yourself.
It is useful for helping me avoid allowing my views to calcify into what Mill calls "dead dogma." It's also a fun book to teach, because it bothers students from across the political spectrum, but they usually get something out of it when they give the book serious thought.
Hayek offends populists of either stripe, for his open defense of the most (to my eyes) pernicious forms of privilege.
He still doesn't seem to get socialists, but he is useful for pushing students to be suspicious of the concentration of power.
Not all of Hayek's work is worth reading, but at least certain sections of this book are.
Started reading the book to learn about Hayekian economics.
I expected the book to be mostly on economic policies as Hayek was an economist, but was surprised to see that the book is a comprehensive analysis of the history and present of liberty.
The book is divided into three parts; 1.
Freedom in the Welfare State I found the first two parts difficult to read as I wasn't interested in understanding the history of liberty.
The third part is the most interesting part of the book where Hayek talks about the contemporary issues and the application of liberty in state policies.
Three of five stars solely based on the writing and sometimes sporadic argumentation. The dense subject matter was throughout obscured via extremely tedious sentence structures.Given the enthusiasm his work enjoys from many libertarian leaning quarters, I was surprised to find Hayak's build-up of liberty, through a detailed and intensively footnoted analysis hinged on social evolution, lead to positions accepting social insurance programs, central monetary authority, and arguments for town planning.
This is the most challenging read I've ever come across. The sentences are long, the content hard to understand but it's a direct challenge to ideas I've always held. What Hayek lacks in the former, he makes up for in the latter. In an age where identity is king, Hayek explains how the road to equality can be paved with good intentions but can have shattering consequences. In an uncertain world personal freedoms must be protected from well-meaning blundering attempts to control forces beyond our control. Thought-provoking and highly recommended.
Mindblowing. First page. A quote. Wrote back in 1945, H. P. Phillips. About perceiving the civilization as either static or dynamic. And how the dynamic civilization can only be based on personal freedom. 2017, history, internet, and the white old farts have decided civilization is as static as christianity has fought to keep the Earth.
He is a clear and calm writer, which is nice, and i'd put him with Nozick as people with whom I would disagree yet completely understand the justification for how they got to their beliefs. I would love to listen in on a conversation between him and Walzer, who I think best expresses the corrupting influences of a society set up along Hayek's framework.
Probably his best work. Then again, I haven't read all of his works, but this is the best one so far, despite what most people say.
Al final termina confesando que, si tuviera que entenderse con unos u otros, lo haría mucho mejor con los conservadores, básicamente porque le viene mejor para sus propios fines y porque se empeña en que todos los socialismos son totalitarios, probablemente por la situación de la época y no por una racionalización ideológica (que además se muestra bastante en contra del Racionalismo a lo largo de todo el texto).A pesar de todo esto, y como ya he dicho en el primer párrafo, me parece una obra muy interesante para cualquier persona interesada en la sociedad y sus formas de gobernarse, especialmente desde que los conservadores, que se ve que no leyeron jamás el postfacio, la tomaron como Biblia ideológica con las consecuencias que ya todos conocemos.
Also, Hayek cites or mentions several conservative thinkers, most notably Edmund Burke; for some reason I also recall the mention of Michael Oakeshott.The book is subdivided into three parts, titled "The Value of Freedom", "Freedom and the Law", and "Freedom in the Welfare State", addressing (1) the nature, meaning and utility of freedom; (2) the requirements upon the law and the state if freedom is to be achieved; and (3) the application of liberalism to particular then-present (1960) political questions.I found the first part lively and interesting; in particular, the challenge Hayek saw in defining freedom and his attempt at overcoming it is inspiring.
Altough his ideas don't seem very feasible most of the time, I still liked his moderate approach of the topic as it is a fresh air to the modern, more radical side of libertarianism, especially in the USA, which sometimes tends to block out reality and therby to lose the rationality of the argument with, in my opinion, is paramount in any libertarian discussion.Although the book is mostly interesting and thought-provoking, it contains some dry and obscure passages every now and then which can make it hard to go on.
Inutile che parliamo noi, facciamo come Ricossa e lasciamo la parola a Hayek.Il valore della libertà individuale poggia soprattutto sul riconoscimento dell’inevitabile ignoranza di tutti noi nei confronti di un gran numero dei fattori da cui dipende la realizzazione dei nostri scopi e della nostra sicurezza.
Se esistessero uomini onniscienti, se potessimo sapere non solo tutto quanto tocca la soddisfazione dei nostri desideri di adesso, ma pure i bisogni e le aspirazioni future, resterebbe poco da dire in favore della libertà.
La libertà è essenziale per far posto all’imprevisto e all’imprevedibile; ne abbiamo bisogno perché come abbiamo imparato, da essa nascono le occasioni per raggiungere molti dei nostri obiettivi.
Hayek gets into trouble (IMO) by defining liberty as a state of minimum coercion.
the end of his designs is to maximize the progress of civilization, not to protect individual rights.In spite of these errors, he has some very useful insights, including the fact that "social justice" and the rule of law are incompatible; the detrimental effect of having a majority of employees (instead of self-employed) voting on economic issues;and how inflationary fiscal policies have made saving for retirement difficult (if not impossible)--thus causing the "need" for Social Security.
Majority Rule, Democracy and LiberalismHayek on Liberty, Values and AltruismYou gotta watch out for them nice guys
When we read the parts in which he focus on economic policy and the foreword we believe Hayek is a true bastion of freedom, however some concepts of government intervention (like education, many types of taxes, arbitrary prohibition, state companies) in which he seems to accept under some conditions and concluding it would create a un-free society made be believe he was not a as favorable to freedom as I thought or that he was naive on accepting some conditions which today we see are extremely dangerous for freedom.The Part III had many great points since it covers an area which Hayek has great experience.
