https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/298730.Among_the_Barons
I liked this installment (plot) better than the last one. Luke Garner is pretending to be Lee Grant at a school filled with hidden third children when Lee's younger brother Smits shows up at the school. The Grants are a powerful (Baron) family, but Luke feels pity for Smits and his grief. Luke is quickly caught up in a plot to determine why Lee was killed, with a number of competing interests with vastly different agendas.
The author describes the characters in a way that makes them feel like real people.PlotLuke loves living at Hendrick's School for Boys.
They also act as though Luke is the real Lee. The Grants later inform Luke that their son is dead because he was doing things against the government.
The school also creates a feeling of safety for Luke and all the other third boys like him.
The school is where Luke's journey as Lee Grant first begins.
The mansion is where Luke's journey as Lee Grant ends, and his journey as himself begins.
This was a very good book, Luke/Lee's little brother Smitts is going to start at Hendricks school. His body guard Oscar seems weird, he carries around ax so if there's a fire he can save people. Luke is afraid that Smitts is going to tell people that he's a shadow child.
I think I'm done with this series.A lot of the characters actions didn't make any sense.
I know this is supposed to be a kids book, but come on.I found the Grants particularly stupid.
They tell Luke their plan to have him fake his death so they can mourn publicly, then tell him he'll have to go back into hiding after.
Okay, let's just let the servants clean up the bodies of their employers with no police involvement.How did Oscar even know Lee was dead?
Particularly in contrast to the first book in the series which was interesting and plausible.
Each book in the series is full of suspense that causes the kids not to be able to put the book down.
Her books are well written and provide an excellent springboard for classroom or small group discussions not just about the book but the subject matter.
With this book as with the whole series, the topic was population control.
Luke has been living under the identity of Lee and attends school.
The danger of being found out is still very much there for Luke.
To me this (along with her other books) is a must have book for all classroom libraries.
Among the Barons by Margaret Peterson is an outstanding novel and a great fourth installment to the Shadow Children book series.
Out of all the books in this series that I have read before, this one is probably my second favorite, right behind Among the Betrayed, which is the third book.
In this installment, the point of view goes back to Luke, but Nina is in the story a little bit.
This book series is starting to become one of my favorites yet and I definitely recommend this book to readers who love suspense and mystery.
well when you are a third child in this time you either have to be in hidding or the population police will get you and either kill or torture you!!
well luckly for luke he gets an fake id imposing as Lee Grant so he can stay safe in the hendricks school for boys, but is he really safe or is things going to get worse, like Lee's brother coming to the school all of sudden.
after lee suppose to be dead and smits seeing lee, would it make him tell the population police and make lukes life rough, or is there something that the Lee Grant family is hidding?
The plot thickens in this 4th of the Shadow Children series.
As Luke continues living at Hendricks School for Boys using his fake identity, Lee Grant, he has become a leader of sorts, helping the other 3rd children acclimate to life without hiding.
But when his younger ‘brother’, Smits arrives to live at Hendricks, his secretive identity may be in jeopardy.
Why have the Grants sent him to be with Luke after his real older brother died a tragic death?
As tensions grow between Smits and Luke, more secrets come out about the barons and Lee’s death.
Among the Barons pits Luke against those that oppose his life up close and personal.
Among the Barons by Margaret Peterson Haddix, the fourth book in the shadow children series, is a solid book. In my opinion, this is my least favorite book in the series so far. Mainly because the plot doesn't seem to be fully developed. There are definitely more questions raised than questions answered, and sometimes, details in the plot contradict each other, which were a bit confusing. However, aside from the inconsistencies in the plot, the book is good. It definitely is not a bad book, but it could use some improvement. Overall, this book is four out of five stars.
Until now, this has seemed to me the best book of the series so far.A lot os twists in the intricate plot, excellent characters, and a great adventure for Luke and Smits, his new found "brother" - not to mention Oscar, Smits body guard/spy/protector/doomer... A quick, breathtaking action until the very last page, but with some tender moments in between... Worth reading!Maria Carmo,Lisbon, 6th May 2018.
I thought this book was okay. I read the others in the series, and it was fun at first. I just feel the books are getting repetitive and are becomung boring. they are short and have great potential. these books are great for a short read with low expectations.
Whats happening is that you know how Luke went to Hendricks school and that he became Lee grant which who is a baron, a person who is really rich.
Their was a surprise one day at Hendrick, his "little brother", which is really Lees little brother Smit's came to school with his bodyguard Oscar.
Luke, Lee was so surprised and nervous, he never knew that he had a fake little brother too, He also has fake parents.
Will Luke, Lee trust Smit's with his secrets AND trust Oscar, Smit's intimidating bodyguard?
Among the Barons follows what seems to be a tradition in the Shadow Children series: a great story with twists and turns. Among the Barons offers something completely new, seeing what the lifestyle for a Baron is like, and having a Baron sibling. The inclusion of Smits brings a whole new aspect of the story, seeing how Luke pretending to be Lee becomes a lot harder. Among the Barons is another solid entry in the series and should definitely be read by series' fans.
He lives under the name of Lee Grant, who comes from a very rich family.
When he finds out that Smits, Lee's younger brother was coming to the school, he was scared for his life.
After a couple of nights living with the Grants they tell him that they know he is not actually Lee and that their son had died.
Luke then tells Smits he is going to live with his parents while Luke tries to accomplish his mission by freeing all third children.CharacterizationLuke overcame many obstacles at Hendricks School for Boys.
My favorite character in this book is Luke Gardener, because he is very smart and always knows the right thing to do.
It is the best and the only series I have ever read.Plot: This book started where I thought book four would have started, Luke gets summoned by Mr. Hendricks.
When Luke gets to his office, his orders are to pack his things because he is going to live with The Grant’s.
Luke then continues the fight.Characterization: Luke Gardener is the main character in this series, otherwise known as Lee Grant with his fake ID that is at least.
Just as Luke is beginning to feel safe, one of the worst possible things happens to him, the fake I.D. that was given to him was of a deceased child named Lee Grant, Lee died in a skiing accident just recently before Luke took on the identity of Lee. The Grants had lied about their child’s death since he was doing something illegal, and gave the identity to Luke.
They are worried that Smits is going to spill the beans about Lee dying, so they want to fake Lee’s death by using Luke “dying” at a party with a lot of rich folk so the Grants can continue leading their selfish lives and Luke can go back into hiding.
Things change when the Grants, a prominent Baron family who donated the name of their son when he died in a ski accident, decide to send the real Lee's brother, Smithfield (a.k.a. Smits), to the school and visit "Lee".
Furthermore, the Grant family selfishly desires to express their grief over the real Lee's death by faking "Lee's" death and send Luke back into hiding once again.The return of "Lee" (with a few changes made by the Grants' services) and Smits is celebrated by a party at the Grant's house.
At the party, Oscar attempts to assassinate the President, who started the war, and Luke who is saved by Trey.
It's a little different what Luke is used too.Plot:  In the novel Luke garner is living his new life as lee grant.
The grants, one of the richest and most powerful families in the country, gave Luke their son's identity, when there real son died during illegal activity.
The real Lee Grant was killed on a mission to help overthrow the evil government.
So Luke can now maintain his identity as lee grant and can continue on his mission to free all 3rd children.Characterization: Luke Garner: Luke Garner is the main character in the novel.
The setting in this story is very important because it is where evrithing thakes place.The most important people in my story are Luck,Smits,Mr.Hendrick,and Oscar.The conflict of this story is person vs person.The theme of the story is trying to make somthing happen.The story Among the barons is about a boy named Luck who is a third child so he has to go to a school for boys and leav his family and change his name to Lee because third children are not accsepted by the goverment .Luck thinks everything will be fine untill Lees younger brother smits showes up at the school wich made Luck very worried because he thinks Smits is going to tell evryone that luck is not his real brother because lee had died from a skeing and geting shot.Later on in the book Luck finds ou Smits is not as bad as of a person as he thought.
This is the fourth book in a series that I have been reading. The series is about a government that has total control over the people. In this society, third children are illegal. This story is an adventure of a third child trying to escape the population police. I like to read right when I get home from school. This gets it out of the way before I am too tired to enjoy reading. In Among the Barons, the success of civilization is based on population control. Only two children are allowed per fa
That’s not the same.” “Don’t you think I should have rights, too?” Luke asked.” This quote shows how Mrs. Grant thinks of third children.
Luke thinks that he should have rights even though his is a third child and technically illegal.
In this book, Mrs. Grant believes that the third children do not have any rights and does not question this rule.
This third child rule was made when a famine struck and for the civilization to survive, they had to control population.
On the other side, Luke feels that third children should have rights because he is a third child.
Mr. Henricks wants to see you!"Premise/plot: Among the Barons is the fourth book in Margaret Peterson Haddix's Shadow Children series.
Lee's 'brother' Smits has come to the boys school.
His brother Lee is dead--remember Luke has assumed his identity in order to come out of hiding--and Smits can't talk about it with anyone, or grieve in any normal way.
Luke/Lee finds himself pondering: what does this kid want from me?
why does he want me for a brother when clearly we've never met?
And...wait for it...Luke/Lee finds himself AMONG THE BARONS.My thoughts: This series continues to hold my interest.
In AMONG THE BARONS (Shadow Children #4) I was pleased to find that the storyline had circled back around to Luke at the Hendricks School for Boys.Just as Luke Garner (under the ID of Lee Grant) is starting to make a home for himself at the boarding school, starting to make real friends, people he can trust, other boys with a secret in common..
Or is Smits in just as much danger as Luke with secrets of his own to protect?Haddix once again does an excellent job, skillfully bringing yet another installment of the Shadow Children series to life; keeping the story moving forward at a heart-pounding pace.
The book starts when the grants send their son Smits to the same school as Luck.
Then the grant ask Luke (Lee) and smits to come back home after the scholl they were in had a fire.
Oscar comes up witha plan to keep Luke out of hiding, but the plan involves putting Smits into hiding.
Luck has to deside weather it will be he or Smits that will be forced into hiding.
Luck takes the orfined Smits to his old home and then leaves to meat with his other friends.
Great Book.
In this book it was about how Luke (Lee) went to the Grant family and face many things.
Luke never seen such a great house in the world.
The Grant's house were huge with tons of servants ready to do every single thing of their chores.
With all the servant around, Luke doesn't have any privacy like talk to Smith about him as a third kid.
On a party night Luke was able to meet the President which he really hated but also have to pretend to be polite since his using the fake Id of Lee Grant.
Not so great. The first one was really good and then as it went on it got stupid. If there were no Hendricks School the series would be ten times better. Among the Hidden and Among the Betrayed were the best and the other two were ok. Seriously Luke in disguise of Lee! Spoiler alert: Smits gets to live with Luke, Matthew, and Mark. I really hope the next one is better
Kinda random that they went to Nina's POV for the third book and then back to Luke's for the fourth, but I like Luke better anyway. Slightly. None of the characters are really spectacular but the story itself is interesting enough. The series seems to be picking up more and change seems to be on the horizon.
"Among the Barons" was an amazing book for me, just like all of the other books in the series. I like the way Haddix explained the love between Luke and his "supposed to be" brother. You probably don't know what I mean by that but if you read the first book, you'd understand.
Once again, a fun read, but nothing special. The plot of this one was interesting, I certainly want to know what's going to happen.And I really liked Smits... He was super sweet.Yeah, I literally have nothing left to say about this book.
I really enjoyed this young adult series and it made me look for more books by the author.
