https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12033455-i-ve-got-your-number
I just read this book in one sitting because Sophie Kinsella is a hilarious and engaging author! This is my favorite book by her, including the Confession of a Shopaholic books (I know, it's a high honor). I loved the ending and how it's not a typical fairytale riding-off-into-the-sunset-and-then-they-live-happily-ever-after-and-have-twenty-kids-who-grow-up-to-be-super-attractive-blah-blah-blah ending, but you can create your own idea of what happens after the last page. SUPER cute and obviously a quick read!Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to go take a long sleep because I've been reading for five hours straight and I'm a little loopy.
You'd be surprised how easy it is to pull off though.I've read every Kinsella book and pretty much enjoyed all of them, so I may be a bit biased.
Reading a Kinsella book is like catching up with an old girlfriend over drinks.
Lesson #1 of I've Got Your Number: Never put a dyslexic in charge printing up programs that include the word "hymn."** My favorite Kinsella book is hands down Can You Keep a Secret?.
This book is a fun, escapist read that I’ll defend like I do my second third cocktail -- I deserve it, damn it!
She is so like me in panic mode.I totally connect with Poppy Wyatt!!She lost her ring!!
:)When I read about Magnus, the man Poppy is supposed to be married and his parents, I feel this -----> >:-|>> OMG!!!!
Really?When I read about the text exchanges between Sam and Poppy..
That is so sweet and so funny.When I read about Magnus and his family again, I feel this ----> \('0')/ >> Really!!!
How could you??When Poppy read her message from Sam while Magnus is over at her place ----> T_T>> NO NO NO NO NO!!!!!!!
Sophie had me laughing out loud at some parts, and I really think she is quickly becoming one of my favorite writers for chick-lit books.
:) She's right, it's so catchy!The only thing I didn't like about this book were the footnotes...Yes, you read that right.
Footnotes in a Sophie Kinsella book!
I would also recommend it to people who haven't tried Sophie Kinsella's books, but would like to, because I think it truly captures what makes her a wonderful writer.
Laugh out loud humor, with a loveable main character, a little light romance with subtle messages.Releases: Feb 14, 20124/5 Stars
I've found that books with adult characters tend to revolve around how DEPRESSING the real world is (ex: failed marriages & careers, bratty children, everyone's dying, etc).
The phone belonged to the PA for a businessman named Sam who agrees to let Poppy keep it for a few days (because she gave the number out to everyone during her ring search).
They start to help each other figure out their problems aaaaaand it gets adorable.There's the obvious plot of Poppy realizing that her fiancé is a jerk and Sam's a better guy, but the story actually focuses just as much on the whole scandal at his company.
fifty the day after that ...and then, my brothers and sisters, your lawn is totally, completely, and profligately covered with dandelions."Kinsella's I've Got Your Number could be used as a perfect example of this.
There are a plethora of sentences ending in phrases like: ...he said hesitantly.
While I understand King's point (show, don't tell; don't be redundant, etc), I personally hold no aversion towards an excessive use of adverbs.
You could even say they stood out glaringly.That's not why I'm giving this book 2 stars, though.
So, it is for that reason that I am giving this book just 2 stars, albeit reluctantly.
There are moments in life that the white-chocolate Magnum ice cream was invented for, and this is one of them.  How wonderful it is when two people meet and get to know each other! The beginning, the development of a relationship, is always exciting and glamorous. Sophie Kinsella creates very special and genuine circumstances for this romance:- an unbelievable situation,- a hasty engagement,- a nosy and very vacillating fiancée,- a very, very unstable fiancé,- an attractive businessman who is
And of course, he is hot...I felt some situations were sticky and exaggerated.
But I really enjoyed the SMS-chats at the Scrabble party, in the dark park, and in the final scene.At the end, I was a little bit disappointed because I (okay… Poppy) got only one kiss, and the story was over...Originally posted on my blog on June 20, 2012.My favorite quotes.
Just what I needed as a break from my WOT Re-read.Lilyan's reactions as the book progressed:First there was a lot of:Then, as we got to know Poppy, I thought, "Oh No!
Not another brainless klutz!".
Why do female authors think ditsy females are cute?
To add to the idiocy, she has no spine.
*sigh*.But then, enter Sam:Sam's and Poppy's interactions:Finally, when Poppy starts pulling her shit together:There was a relapse towards the end when she reverted back to being a dumb ass, but let's just ignore that!Because!
The last scene was just:Oh Sophie, I don't care if your stories lack any sort of depth or intelligence, they will always make me feel giddy.
The phone turns out to be company property and the owner, Sam, wants it back.
This results in a lot of bickering and bargaining on both parts, and they end up agreeing to "share" the phone for the time being.
(hide spoiler)]For a romance novel, there is a surprisingly less amount of said factor and a lot more of growing up (even if you're already an adult) and facing reality in I've Got Your Number.
The love between Sam and Poppy develops slowly but surely since these two are completely different individuals from even more different lives.
She’s the face I hope to see." [...] He’s the one I think about.
She complains to herself which sound like complaining to everyone in the world that she lost her engagement ring!
And that begin her story with an elusive businessman Sam Roxton because she take his office’s phone!!!I love, love love this, man!
xDDD Sam is a busy businessman that have no times to reply his messages on his phone.
I won’t tell you much of this amazingly funny scene, but all I will tell you is that….IT’S THE FIRST SCENE THAT MADE ME SHIP POPPY AND SAM SO HARD!
Thing is, I’m not sure Poirot had three glasses of pink champagne and a mojito before he solved the Murder on the Orient Express.”Not only does she not find the ring, she manages to get her phone stolen, too.
Pretty soon she and Sam are texting on a regular basis and things start happening between them, between one disaster and another.I loved Sam and Poppy.
I don’t know if I love her.”“All I can say is, she’s the one I think about.” Margaret pauses, and her voice softens as she reads.
In the beginning, “I’ve Got Your Number” seems a little silly.
But as I kept on reading, the more I realized what a really clever, funny, and witty book this is.
Poppy and Sam are both total caricatures, and you could never accuse the plot of being believable.
There were a few holes in the plot, but I was impressed that the author eventually tied up all those loose strands that were bothering me.Overall, this is a charming story with characters you would love to root for.
I have markedly dichotomous taste in books, but sometimes you just need to lighten things up with a feel good romantic comedy, and “I’ve Got Your Number” fits the bill perfectly!
This was utterly ridiculous. I'm not saying these scenarios could never happen, but I am saying that I didn't have to just suspend my disbelief - I had to launch it into outer space.But I could not put it down.
Welcome to chick-lit 101 with all important footnotes! Rule 1. Our leading lady with a heart of gold is invariably marrying the wrong guy (1). He doesn't truly love her, treat her right etc etc etc....Rule 2. There must be a meet-cute to set hearts all a flutter (2)Rule 3. New boy understands girl like no one else before (3)Rule 4. There is A LOT of flirtation without either party realising they're flirting. They think they're just getting to know a new "friend". Texting is a GREAT medium for t
Our leading lady with a heart of gold is invariably marrying the wrong guy (1).
There must be a meet-cute to set hearts all a flutter (2)Rule 3.
New boy understands girl like no one else before (3)Rule 4.
They think they're just getting to know a new "friend".
"Something" will happen to tear our new couple apart and force the girl back with the wrong guy.
I'm not "good enough" for new hot boy (5)Rule 6.
In the end the right boy always gets the right girl!
3 1/2 starsBasic elements of a Sophie Kinsella novel:a) A daffy, non-confrontational girl who will do anything and everything (including carry out highly imaginative hare-brained schemes) to avoid her problems, and always has the best intentions at heart, even as she’s making colossal mistakes.b) A love interest who’s a bit too structured and straight-laced, is highly placed in some sort of business setting, and who finds the main character’s hijinks to be adorable.c) The boyfriend of the main character, who’s absolutely ill-suited to her in every way.d) A cast of highly colorful, somewhat zany relatives and friends.I’ve read every single one of Sophie Kinsella’s books and I guess what I’m saying is: I don’t read these books to be surprised.
And I think that’s what Sophie Kinsella does for me.I had a wonderful time reading this book, and the main character gets into plenty of uncomfortable/humorous scrapes that I’m sure to be remembering for months.
This book was so much fun! Highly recommend the audiobook. Sophie Kinsella's novels are so humorous, rare are the books that can make me laugh!
2.5 STARS This book did not need to be longer than 200 pages. "I've Got Your Number" has one of those plots that would be more entertaining as a movie. The first half was witty and cute & I enjoyed a great deal. It's the last 40% that bored the shit out of me. Not to mention WAY TOO MANY unnecessary secondary characters. I still might read some of Kinsella's other books.
as i see the other reviews i realize i stand alone in my opinion, but i stand by it nonetheless.The main character lies, cheats, steals, and deceives throughout the entire book.
why would i want to real a book where women are portrayed this way?
(or at least it mentions nothing, other than how self-involved she is.)im glad i read this book so i can steer clear of chick lit forever.
women are not airheads who lie and steal to get what they want.
and not every woman has to have a man in her life to be happy.phew.glad thats all out.
It contained so much of what I normally don't like to read: a chick lit novel, situations that are just crazy over-the-top and farcical, and a sweetly clean romance story suitable for the most prudish reader.
(Which I am not!) Truth is I laughed through most of the story, and I found the evolving relationship and romance with Sam just endearing.
Their story was so crazy it just might work.
The first few minutes I wasn't sure I was going to like her, but within no time I really thought she was the perfect voice for this type of story.
This is my first novel of Sophie Kinsella,and I still don't know what to expect of this..but I was inspired by one of my closest friends here on GR who have read and loved this book so much.So I took this as an opportunity to read and dedicate this novel to her as she celebrates her birthday today..so,to you PANG, HAPPY,HAPPY BIRTHDAY!My Review:This is a story of Poppy Wyatt,a Physiotherapist,young quirky woman who is engaged to her boyfriend of 2 months(yes,and they're already getting married?!).
This are the kind of novels you would want to see on a big screen,'cause you just know you'll appreciate and enjoy it more!So to my ever so loyal friend who's an enthusiastic reader,thank you so much for your inspiring review that made me read this!
Okay that was cute! wish there was a sequel or something!
What a beautiful story!!! So real and funny and super cute!!! Sophie Kinsella did it again, this story is so her. Poppy is a sweetheart, so kind, funny and brilliant. Sam is a perfect workaholic hottie. Have you ever shared your phone with someone.... ... Try it once ;)
3.35/5definitely a fun read! i wasn't in absolute love with the characters and there was a LOT of everything-goes-wrong (a bit too much for me--made me anxious!). it was a bit slow to start, but all was cute in the end and that's what matters! thanks to all of you who recommended it!
★ ★ ★ ★ ★ 3 1/2 Finders Keepers Stars ★ ★ ★ ★ ★   “All I can say is, she's the one I think about. All the time. She's the voice I want to hear. She's the face I hope to see. - Sam Roxton”  This was the cute story Poppy and Sam "meeting" by chance. Brought together under less than ideal circumstances, yet forging a connection through all of it. Sophie Kinsella  did a fantastic job of taking a crazy unbelievable storyline and making it totally lovable and hilarious! This story had it all:* an unli
This was the cute story Poppy and Sam "meeting" by chance.
Sophie Kinsella has an amazing writing style that can have me laughing out loud one minute and the next getting tears of happiness in eyes.
As he swivels me around to face him, I don't make a sound.
I felt some story lines had way too much time dedicated to them and not enough romance but it was still an overall good story!
I really really want their to be a sequel for I want to get to know Poppy and Sam better.
👼🏻What if you lost your engagement ring AND your phone and you were completely desperate?
It's amazing what you can find out about somebody just from a few texts and messages.
It's amazing how your whole life can be turned upside down by one little text.
And it's amazing to find out how hard it is to hide the fact that you've lost your priceless engagement ring from your fiancé!I admit it was a bit slow & boring at the beginning, and at some point Poppy was really annoying, but this was such a heartwarming book.
This has got to be hands down my favorite Sophie Kinsella novel. I got an audiobook of it from my local library and listened to the whole thing within a week. It was a fun, chick lit read that have me laughing out loud at times. Dear Poppy, I love you.
I'm in love. Literally. This book was sooooooooo good. I wasn't expecting to fall in love with it. After the ending I just can't stop smiling. It's too cute. My new favorite, definitely ;)
The Protagonist was frustrating. So I get why so many people don't like this. But I LOVED it.This was such a fun, packed, and adorable story and I already want to reread it. The ending was a little to cheesy for me but I rarely rate a romantic contemporary this high so this was a huge win for me! Loved this story.
The first half with the fiancé was so painfully silly to me that I almost DNFed, but the second half was terrific! The industrial spy stuff was plausible, we get to know Poppy better, and the relationship and texting was super cute. First Kinsella, but it won't be my last.
The audiobook was fantastic and I really liked how it was written.I also liked the characters, though I felt Poppy was similar to Rebecca from Sophie's Shopaholic series.
So for the story's sake, I overlooked that and just tried to enjoy the book and for the most part, I did :)But ultimately too many "special moments" happened for me that the plot got a bit ridiculous at some points.
Even if it feels justified at moments, I think it's never a good idea to showcase it in a way that makes light of marriage or commitment, but again that's just me.Overall, I thought the book finished strong and it was a highly enjoyable read with lots of laughable moments.
