https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/290900.Shankara_s_Crest_Jewel_of_Discrimination
I don't think I know sufficient words to write a review about this book!!I can simply say its A great book!!
This book gives the aphorism to reach non duality by the greatest advaita vedanta teacher.

I only gave it four rather than five stars because it does not include verse numbering, which makes it much more difficult to refer to individual verses.
I will grant that this seems a minor complaint, and there is good reason for it: the translators chose to render the book in prose rather than verse for the sake of English readability.
Still, it would not have been too hard to include verse numbers in brackets or superscript.
This minor complaint aside, I recommend this translation as easily the clearest, most readable one available of Adi Shankara's Vivekachudamani, and this edition for its compact, durable form.
Mere words can't express the experience this book gives when contemplating on its wisdom. Now it's time to get to work...
Shankara's Viveka-Chumandi or Crest Jewelof Discrimination is very far from supplying an exhaustive explanation of Advaita Vedanta (although no text in existence probably does provide this) but as far as serving as an introduction to Advaita, Swami Prabhavananda's translation of this text would most likely be my first recommendation.
If anyone is looking for an introduction to Advaita Vedanta and Shankara but does not want to be overwhelmed then they could certainly do a lot worse than Swami Prabhavananda's translation of the Viveka-Chudamundi.
Shankara's Vivekachudamani (Crest-Jewel of Discrimination) is a pure transmission of the nondual teachings of Vedanta.
In some sense, Shankara lays out the nondual teachings of Advaita Vedanta more clearly for everybody than the Upanishads, Bhagavad Gita, and Brahma Sutras.
This is because not everybody can grasp the mystical depth of the three main texts of Vedanta.
Shankara had a wonderful ability to see into the heart of Vedanta and bring back this jewel of wisdom from the eternal ocean of Brahman to the shores of our world.
This book is a wonderful instruction, a must have, for the contemplative seeker. I could not put it down and enjoyed reading it very much. It is a short book that contains the highest truths of Advaita Vedanta in their naked essence: Brahman is Real, world is illusory, Atman is Brahman . If you are simply interested in the inner message and essence of nondualism, or above all if you are an aspirant of the path of knowledge, Jnana Yoga, then this book is highly recommended.
Although this is not the version of the book I had studied, I can only sit back and wonder what is it that has prevented me from coming across this piece of 'Jewel', these many years! With just a single read of this, I know for sure that I am not the same person anymore. This is an other-worldly piece of work, both literally and metamorphically!
To grasp for happiness in the realm of the sense-pleasures is to grab for a crocodile mistaking it for a log as you cross the river of life!
What to say? An ancient classic, also serves as a good introduction and overall summary of Advaita Vedanta.

This one flew over my head like a fighter jet...lol.
Quote:Тот, кто все еще заботится о теле при поиске истинного Я, напоминает человека, ухватившегося за крокодила, чтобы пересечь реку.Если выпускаешь стрелу в животное, думая, что это тигр, но оно оказывается коровой, может ли стрела быть отозвана назад?Хотя твой ум растворен и ты похож на забывшего мир, оставайся всегда пробужденным, напоминая, однако, не пробудившегося.Он, кто есть всеобщее Я, принимает по желанию бесчисленные формы и имеет бесчисленные переживания.
И снова, в одном месте он движется, словно человек Мира, в другом - как царь, еще в другом - как нищий, питающийся с ладони из-за отсутствия чаши для подаяния.
With the commentary, excellent introduction to the philosophy of advaita. Less opaque than other works of Shankara. Prabhavandana's commentary makes the concepts very easy to understand. I plan to read again since the core ideas of advaita are profound if philosophically simple.
Introduction and then the actual teachings of Shankara, a 7th century Hindu philosopher. His ideas on discrimination, the Atman, reality, liberation, and so on. (Apparently, this didn't make a very deep impression on me...)
Great spiritual book. Gets you thinking about how the soul is in all and the all is God
