https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/201131.Power_of_the_Spoken_Word
This book reveals what you think and what you say have influence in how your life unfolds. It is full of affirmations to retrain the way you think. Another book that should be read by everyone.
I'm surprised that her name is not better known -- if people are recommended to read Emerson or Thoreau, they definitely should be recommended Scovel Shinn as well.
The author writes, "God's gift to man is power; power and dominion over all created things; his mind, his body and affairs.
All unhappiness comes from lack of power.
Man imagines himself weak and the victim of the circumstances, claiming that "Conditions over which he had no control" caused his defeat.
Man by himself, is indeed a victim of the circumstances; but linked with God-power all things are possible."Not sure "all unhappiness comes from lack of power" - even if you see "power" as "faith." But as St Paul writes, "All things are possible through God, who strengthens me." Much to be learned here about faith!
Enormously inspirational !This book reveals the power of the spoken word. I would recommend this book to anyone serious about taking control over their lives and their destiny.
This is the last of Ms. Shinn's books I've read.
It was published after she passed away and was compiled from her notes and teachings, by one of her students.
This is No way lessened the impact.
I may not believe all Ms. Shinn's theories about reincarnation and the metaphysical, but I absolutely believe all she taught about speaking good into your life.
She may have been teaching this in the 1920's, but I'm starting to believe people need to teach these principles today.
Read these books,,they are an investment in yourself and your happiness.
Quick read, with lots of misquotes, missed citations, and misinterpretations (on purpose)...especially of the Bible. Rewrites the book, essentially, to promote her ideas about God (or promotes herself).
Very EnlighteningThe principles Me Shinn use in this book are simple yet profound. I will apply these principles to my thoughts and affairs.
She believes that if we pray with a belief of already gaining our desires, we’ll definitely get what we wanted.
Also, if we show our active faith in our words and actions we’ll definitely get our demands.
In this book, there are also some sentences that worth repeating everyday in order to get our specific goals.
we can also create our own focusing sentences regarding our demands so that we can repeat them and go through the way of realizing our dreams.It worth trying these points and see what happens, you won’t lose anything if you didn’t get any success.
I can honestly say these books are a blessing, My whole thought patterns are changing into positive mode after reading the four books. This book I found the most rewarding. I will strive to live my life with passion and follow my intuition. If you are a creative soul you will appreciate these books.
I have always known that words were powerful, but I have always thought of it in a more negative kind of way. I know a compliment or a criticism can change lives. This book made me think of it on a different and even more powerful level. I have never thought so much about how my own spoken words can impact my personal life on a powerful level. I really enjoyed this book.
Awesome insights in this Spiritual book by Florence Schovel Shinn, she takes Bible verses and relates them metaphysically. These matter of fact messages are easy to adapt in our lives teaching us the Spoken word can help or harm each of us. The book is filled with stories of real people and how the spoken word affected them.
Very enjoyable, concepts that with awareness can create a more joyful life.☺ I loved the quote from scriptures and instructions of how to pray. I want to be aware of not only my words, also my thoughts.
You will appreciate this book whether you believe in Jesus or not, but if you believe it is power
Americans need to read this book, take a good look at how they treat each other, then sit down and restructure their lives.
Great follow-up to her previous works. Lots of great affirmations and plenty of believable examples.
Cannot live without this one. I've always said, there is power in words. They carry a vibrational force. Be careful what you wish for, you just might get it.
Great stuff here!
spiritually edifying!
As good as all books from Florence! The power of our word reveals our next step in life...
Powerful This book has opened my mind to the truth, to God be the glory.I will utilize these passages in my journey
Gibberish.
Part of the journey. a lot of truth in it to be foundI have come into a similar truth. There techniques work. After all, what is a novena other than repetition with Faith.
