https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/767403.Baudelaire
(Houellebecq)The reason why so many people write and so little is worthy is simple: in order to be a good writer you need to have two opposite qualities: you must be as clever as possible (because writing is not easy) and as crazy as possible (for the written words to matter) (César Aira)2) I cannot help but consider Sartre's use of an excerpt of Baudelaire's suicide note from 1845 (24 years old) a fallacy of half-truth, since he doesn't quote what's more important of that note and makes Baudelaire not so eager of being whipped by life or his chosen authorities (family, Joseph de Maistre, God, etc.): I consider myself inmortal yet I only wait.
A beautiful, elusively sympathetic, yet brutally honest look at this poet and his jagged life. Very few authors have ever deserved to write a critical essay on Baudelaire--this is the one.
Sartre, Baudelaire'in varlık ve varoluş arasında, geçmişin şimdiki anda kendisini ortaya koyduğu, gösterişçi bir hiçlik mertebesini alınyazısı olarak seçtiği, hayatının ve şiirlerinin felsefik ve ruhbilimsel çözümlemesini yapmış. Hayatını yargılayan kişileri dışarıda bulamadığı zaman hayalinde oluşturan Baudelaire, İyilik'in kurallarına şiddetle karşı çıktığı ölçüde kabul eden, kendini yok sayarken olumlayan bir hayatı yaşamış. Büyük ozan Baudelaire'in kişiliğinin ve şiirlerinin derinliğinde yatanları anlamak isteyenler için eşsiz bir eser.
It's well written, but I didn't feel inspired to finish it.
This is Sartre's attempt to interpret and explain the writer, poet, and critic, Charles Baudelaire, through Existentialist philosophy.
I think I bought this book years ago at a library sale.
Once I proceeded to read it, I found myself wishing that this was a more fact-based bio about Baudelaire, the boy who grew into a man, who grew into the literary figure.
I don't like the idea of abandoning this for other books I'd rather read, esp.
در کنار فصل بودلر در تجربه مدرنیته اثر مارشال برمن و همچنین مقالات عمیق و راهگشای والتر بنیامین، این
In his essay, Sartre dissects the personality of Baudelaire from a position of psychoanalysis. The one who is going to read this work should be well aware of the poet's biography beforehand, for the author presents only some of essential biographical facts - that is, it's not a biography in its pure form. As a review, it lacks for quotations from Baudelaire's poems and prose. First of all, Sartre shows his keen interest in the Baudelaire inward life.
"He held himself back, put on the brake, judged himself; he was his own witness and own executioner, the knife which turns in the wound and the chisel which fashions the marble."Sartre dissects Baudelaire in his own way, which of course means looking at the character of Baudelaire as an existential object. This book is a quick read, and offers some novel insights into Baudelaire, but I am certain there are better books on the subject. This book is, however, quite clear and accessible.
Jean - Paul Sartre was a philosopher, not a biographist. So this biography isn't perfect, but it's just OK.
Your history is very good.
A bit dry as usual, although quite informative. I'd heard of Baudelaire through T.S.Eliot's works, and Sartre provides a rigorous criticism of his works and life.
Baudelaire was much more a poet than a man.
I see much less value in Baudelaire than did Sartre, who devoted over two hundred pages of factual anecdotes and conjecture (an homage to Baudelaire?) to the unrealised definition of the poet's character.
Indeed, were I to meet Baudelaire in a salon of his time, or a coffee shop of my time, my opinion would remain unchanged, and vastly different from Sartre's interpretation.
However, I did not receive the Nobel prize in literature, as did Sartre, so perhaps you should read this for yourself
رفتار اصلى بودلر رفتار مردى است خم شده .
نزد او هيچ آگاهى بى واسطهاى نيست كه با نگاهى تيز سوراخ نشده باشد.براى ما كافى است كه خانه يا درخت را ببينيم ، مجذوب تماشاى آنها خود را فراموش مىكنيم .
بودلر مردى است كه هرگز خود را فراموش نمىكند.او خود را مىبيند كه نگاه مىكند .
او نگاه مىكند تا خود را ببيند كه نگاه مىكند.اين آگاهى او از درخت است ، از خانه است كه او تماشا مى كند و چيزها از طريق اين آگاهى است كه به نظر او مى رسند ، رنگ پريده تر ، كوچكتر و كم تاثيرتر ، انگار آنه
رفتار اصلى بودلر رفتار مردى است خم شده .
نزد او هيچ آگاهى بى واسطه‌اى نيست كه با نگاهى تيز سوراخ نشده باشد.براى ما كافى است كه خانه يا درخت را ببينيم ، مجذوب تماشاى آنها خود را فراموش مى‌كنيم .
بودلر مردى است كه هرگز خود را فراموش نمى‌كند.او خود را مى‌بيند كه نگاه مى‌كند .
او نگاه مى‌كند تا خود را ببيند كه نگاه مى‌كند.اين آگاهى او از درخت است ، از خانه است كه او تماشا مى كند و چيزها از طريق اين آگاهى است كه به نظر او مى رسند ، رنگ پريده تر ، كوچكتر و كم تاثيرتر ، انگار آنها را در يك دوربين مى بيند...!
A critical study based largely on unverifiable speculation about the mental state of its subject. There is surprisingly little of Baudelaire's poetry or prose cited here. Sartre treats the poet's life (or rather, Sartre's conception of his life) as a case study illustrating the existential principles of freedom, anxiety and radical subjectivity.
J'adore Charles Baudelaire et j'étais ravie de trouver ce livre dans une bibliothèque, afin de mieux découvrir cet auteur. J'ai été un peu déçue après cette lecture, je ne pense pas en avoir retiré grand chose... Cette déception est peut-être due à une attention défaillante lorsque je le lisais.. Je ne sais pas, mais je n'en ressors pas aussi enrichie que je l'aurai souhaité.
از بیوگرافی هایی که سارتر در مورد نویسندگان و شاعران گذشته نوشته، که در عین حال سنگین و پیچیده است.در مورد ژان پل سارتر، مطلبی جداگانه نوشته ام؛ http://www.goodreads.com/author_blog_...
This is a really fast read, and an interesting take on Baudelaire. Sartre applies his ideas of freedom to the poet, but also attempts a psychoanalytic read of him, which has certainly been done before, but not quite like this.
I bought this somewhere along the way & found it in a box. Sartre was a literary essayist, as well as a playwright, novelist and philosopher. Genius has not bounds! His book on Flaubert is a definitive work. His existential touch goes right through the subject. Good essay!
A complicated but interesting psychological analysis of Baudelaire's poetry and his lifelong struggle with things such as Good, Evil and everything in between...
I read part of this years ago and never finished. Looking forward to reading the whole thing.
کشتی به دام افتاده در قطبهم چون در تله ای از بلوردر جست و جوی تنگه ی تقدیراستکه او را به این محبس کشاند...
Some French dude about some other French dude...
A great intro to Sartre's thinking, an honest and inventive look at Baudelaire through the Existentialist lens.
