https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2710486-buried-for-pleasure
En el tranquilo pueblo inglés de Sanford Angelorum, el profesor y detective aficionado Gervase Fen se está tomando un descanso, además de presentarse como candidato al Parlamento.
Fen pronto descubre que las apariencias pueden ser engañosas, y es que en el pueblo se ha descubierto un oscuro secreto que está siendo usado como chantaje.
Esta vez, el misterio no tiene la importancia de otras de sus novelas, y se centra más en la campaña de Fen y en presentar a los excéntricos personajes.
Imagine a cross between a Dorothy L Sayers who is ever so slightly less obsessed with the mechanics of mystery (my only quibble with the Wimsey tales is that they sometimes dilate drearily on the reasoning behind the solution, when a shorter explanation would have sufficed) and PG Wodehouse, and you more or less have the measure of Edmund Crispin.
What follows is a roller-coaster of murder, mystery and hilarity as Crispin introduces us to a Bedlam's worth of looney small time characters, from the local priest who is trying to keep his domesticated poltergeist a secret to a non-doing pig who very sadly meets his demise after playing a small part in putting paid to the villain of the piece.
Another enjoyable entry in the Gervase Fen series. Fen is running for Parliament in a remote country seat and his antics and musings about politics form the highlights of this novel. There is a major clue to the identity of the guilty party fairly early but despite recognizing this, I was unable to put the pieces together. Overall, I think that some of the earlier books in this series were superior to this one but it is still worth reading.
Una novela entretenida, divertida y fácil de leer, pero probablemente la que menos me ha gustado del autor.Tiene todo los ingredientes para gustar: el excéntrico profesor y detective aficionado Gervaise Fen que de repente se presenta como candidato al Parlamento de un pueblo de la campiña inglesa, un pueblo lleno de habitantes más excéntricos que el propio Fen y una trama de chantaje y asesinato.Y sin embargo todos esos aspectos no acaban de cuajar bien.
Los que deseen más comedia con las locuras de cada pueblerino se frustrarán por la trama de asesinato, y los que se interesen por el crimen verán como una pérdida de tiempo cada anécdota del pueblo.Y además Fen parece menos Fen que nunca.
He has gotten a wild hair to stand for Parliament as the local independent candidate, and is there to 'press the flesh.' Of course, the hijinks ensue (there is even an escaped lunatic!) as he plays sleuth while campaigning.Here's why I love Crispin's writing - "Morning to you, sir," said the man.
Fen banged him...between the shoulder blades.Another funny scene "Oh, come, sir," said Wolfe reproachfully.
"It's a bit odd, I grant you, but I don't see how it can possibly link up with any of the other things." "Nor, at the moment, do I," Fen admitted.
I enjoy the piquant adjectives and striking nouns that E.
Crispin uses in his writing.
Those that I know, however, really color his writing.
Gervase Fen, the Oxford don, is again working to solve a mystery.
There is a touch of humor in this writing, and it is especially delightful when Fen decides that he is going to stand for parliament.
Apparently politics is about the same everywhere; the electorate is pretty much just like we know of in the U.
While electioneering, he is busy solving two murders and an attempted murder.
****1/2.This is an excellent example of Crispin’s craft in the mystery genre.
We meet Fen as he travels to a small village of Danford Angelorum, where he will be campaigning for election to Parliament.
The matter is as simple as that.” Most of the other issues are handled by Fen in the same way – logic rules, but will the average voter understand?
Fen thinks little of that, but notes that the method was rather different.
Of course, other bodies begin to fall, as when two local instructors are killed with the same gun.
This author devoted most of his life to his career as a composer, but between 1944 and 1953 he wrote nine mysteries and a number of short stories featuring eccentric Oxford professor Gervase Fen. His books and stories were popular when they were published and lovers of classic British mysteries (and whimsical humor) continue to discover and fall in love with them.This one has Fen going to an English backwater village to run for Parliament.
Crispin loved the English countryside, but he was also a fine observer of the absurdities of human nature.
87),“Sister Bates, no doubt, trying to alleviate the tedium of her pernoctation by brewing tea.” (pg.105).… amongst others.As a detective novel, I found that since I had last read the book, I had forgotten who was /were the murderer/-ess.
Crispin writes so very entertainingly when describing the ins and outs of local elections, a poltergeist residing in a Rectory, and a barmaid’s ‘non-doing pig’ (one that eats heartily, but doesn’t put on weight); that the plot of untimely death appears almost, though not quite, second place in this book.[magniloquence (n.): high-flown or bombastic language.Rhadamanthine (adj.
The book satisfies any died-in-the-wool fan of the golden age of mysteries, but does not leap off the page except for a single speech given by Fen near the end of his disastrous attempt at becoming the local M.P. for a rural constituency.Fen, no doubt speaking for Crispin and the rest of us, gives a rousing denunciation of the entire political system (his politics are mildly conservative, but mostly undefined).
The book is worth reading for that speech alone in chapter 19.
In actual fact, however, the English have no more political sense than so many polar bears.
Over and over I am thoroughly tickled by this satire of a Parliament election, and laugh my head off at the dénouement.
Gervase Fen runs for Parliament until he's distracted by finding a murdered man
‘Buried for Pleasure’ is the sixth book in the Gervase Fen series and the third I’d read.It moves away from the Oxford-based mysteries, with Fen wanting to recuperate from editing Langland by running an parliamentary campaign.
He is still arch, particularly in regard to politics (and gets to make a big anti-political speech) but breaks the fourth wall far less.The mystery itself is not very involved but like the other books, it’s more a case of journey than destination and it’s a fun journey.
This was the first book I read by Edmund Crispin, and I do not think this novel had grown older in a good shape.
The prose is thick and ancient without being interesting, the secondary plot quite silly and unreasoned (the affection and disaffection for politics), and some comments on women a bit too rusty without being classic.However, some characters are quite comical and the geography of the novel, those small towns in the English countryside, appealing somehow.
The main plot...
As a piece of British culture I am happy with the reading, but I would not run to read more by Crispin in the near future.

One of my favorite Gervase Fen mysteries. Fen runs for a seat in the House of Commons. Great local dialect and Crispin's sense of humor at its best. 'We was in the gorse by fourth green.' [said Harry] ' The gorse. Surely, in the gorse, you can't have been...' [said Fen] ' We was mollocking,' said Harry with distinct satisfaction. 'She'm a rare un for mollocking, is Olive.' Olive appeared gratified by the tribute. 'Me Grammer alius says: "When oats be cutting, maids be riggish."' 'Your grandmother is clearly a depraved old woman. What time did you...' [said Fen]
Al igual que el resto de la serie protagonizada por Gervase Fen, un placer leerlo. Esta vez el profesor se traslada a la campiña inglesa y varias situaciones me han recordado a La hija de Robert Poste de Stella Gibbons, es probable que Edmund Crispin se haya inspirado también en los libros de Thomas Hardy.
Extremely entertaining . Good fun. Quite a nice mystery.oddball characters...a non doing pig,a poltergeist,a naked lunatic who thinks of himself as Woodrow wilson, a grovelling psychiatrist etc. The anti political lecture from Fen is extremely funny and at the same time perfectly correct.Nice read..Highly recommended if you can stand the tough words.
If there were a Scale of Improbability ranging from '10' (highly probable) to 'Midsomer Murders' (highly improbable) then this would come close to the latter but with a certain Dickensian flare. I don't believe a word of it apart from the pig and the spot on diatribe on politics towards the end but it was delightful nonetheless.
A lovely BookCrossing RABCK which was waiting for me at the Ipswich BC Unconvention.Great fun. A rather run-of-the mill story but full of lovely, eccentric characters and clever word-play, with the occasional totally obscure word thrown in (mephitic for example), and Fen's diatribe against politics and politicians is still right up-to-date.
The story turned out to be better than I thought. I'm glad I stuck with it. I actually went back to the beginning and started over, looking for clues I might have missed. I did figure out early on who the murder would be in general. Reading his stories will increase my vocabulary...lots of words I had never heard of. I'm beginning to appreciate the humor in his writing.
To everyone’s surprise, Fen becomes the spoiler and suddenly more newspapers are paying attention to the local politics.
Inevitably, a murder occurs, then another, and as more of an expert than either the local Constable or the elder Yard representative sent to investigate, Fen becomes deeply involved in the case.
As Fen wanders through the villages to investigate the case, and, when he remembers, to campaign for office, he visits the institution that had lost the patient.
I read this through Audible and just never really was captivated by the story. I have read other Edmund Crispín books that I have enjoyed much more.
It was so bad I couldn't even get through a third of the book. I think the writer cared more about the form than the content.
Hilarious!!!
An enjoyable old-fashioned murder mystery, well written with plenty of wit, incident and even a splash of political satire.
A classic crime novel featuring Oxford don Gervase Fen, one of my favorites from the golden age of English crime fiction. And it did not detract from my enjoyment that I was able to guess - sorry, I meant deduce, of course - the identity of the murderer.
"Characterization seems to me to be a very over-rated element in fiction... It limits the form so..." Not many limits on this piece of twaddle then... Sub-Agatha Christie cartoon-like characters in an outlandish plot. Makes Midsomer Murders seem like a accurate police procedural.
A delightful murder mystery, full of wit and humour. This one made me laugh with its farcical situations and witty turn of phrase. The solution is a little far fetched, but nonetheless enjoyable.
His pseudonym was a homage to a character (Gervaise Crispin) in a detective story by another of his contemporaries Michael Innes, just as his fictional hero Gervais Fen paid homage to John Dickson Carr's Gideon Fell.
Like J.I.M. Stewart, the man behind the Michael Innes pseudonym, Gervais Fen is an Oxford Professor of English, and though Fen is far from Fell physically his approach to sleuthing is just as effective.
