https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5527.All_the_King_s_Men

2006 Movie PosterJack Burden, newspaper reporter, finds himself following around an ambitious, well meaning, but naive candidate named Willie Stark.
Burden can't ever see her as just a friend."It was Anne Stanton herself, who stood there in the cool room of the looking glass, above the bar barricade of bright bottles and siphons across some distance of blue carpet, a girl--well, not exactly a girl any more, a young woman about five-feet-four with the trimmest pair of nervous ankles and smallish hips which, however, looked as round as though they had been turned on a lathe, and a waist just the width to make you wonder if you could span it with your hand, and all of this done up in a swatch of gray flannel which pretended to a severe mannish cut but actually did nothing but scream for attention to some very unmannish arrangements within."Stark still sees himself as one of the good guys despite the number of men he has felt compelled to destroyed.
woven among scenes featuring such archetypes as the Angelic Woman (Anne Stanton), the Demonic Woman (Sadie Burke, and Cass Mastern's mistress), the Saintly Aesthete and Crypto-Homosexual (Adam Stanton), the Seductive Mother, the "Colonel Sanders" With a Secret (Judge Irwin), and What's Bred in the Bone Coming Out in the Flesh (Tom Stark, the embodiment of his father's egoism and brutality).
There seems to be a trade-off between History and Act. Jack is Burdened by the past at every level -- his parents' broken marriage, his half-mad father, his unfinished dissertation, the end of the plantation class's reign in Southern politics, the guilt of slavery.
The story of Willie Stark and Jack Burden (which are the same story as the narrator says) is both poignant and realistic.
Seen through the cynical and poetic eyes of Burden, the Southern cronyism of Huey Long is parodied here (and honestly reminds me of recent and current American political history).
The one negative is the use of the n-word, but I suppose that Jack would have spoken this way and that back in '46 when it was written, attitudes were definitely different.
There is almost nothing to fault in this book and it deserves a place up with the greatest American 20th century fiction.
All the King's Men: Robert Penn Warren's Spider WebThis Novel was chosen as a group read by members of On the Southern Literary Trail for July 2012 and again in October,2014. "It all began, as I have said, when the Boss, sitting in the black Cadillac which sped through the night, said to me (to Me who was what Jack Burden, the student of history, had grown up to be) "There is always something."And I said, "Maybe not on the Judge."And he said, "Man is conceived in sin and born in corruption and h
Broderick Crawford as Willie Stark, John Ireland as Jack Burden, and Adam Greenleaf as Judge Stanton from the 1949 film.
Jack Burden is a one man Greek Chorus that tells us the story of Willie Stark.
As Williams tells us in Long's biography, Willie appears on the Louisiana scene in response to conditions of the Great Depression, which seemingly provided the fuel for Populism common to that era.Jack comes from a level of society that comprised the previous leaders of Louisiana, a class who would forever be opposed to a man of Willie Stark's origin and philosophy.
The title comes from Long's motto, "Every Man a King," and a "Humpty Dumpty" verse.The story follows the political rise and fall of the fictional Willie Stark, who came from modest roots as a small town lawyer and made it into office as a populist before the Depression, to be elected twice as governor of a Southern state.
Warren left references to location intentionally vague, even throwing in red herrings about coming in from the "beach" at a close-by vacation home (Louisiana has lakes, but no beaches; it's oceanfront: the wetlands leading into the Gulf of Mexico).Jack Burden, the novel's narrator, was a former newspaper columnist and history student before becoming Governor Stark's right hand man.
Using his new populist tactics of playing up his upbringing as a poor farm boy who taught himself law at nights and promises to kick the collective ass of the political good-ole-boy network, Stark eventually does win the governorship, and Jack joins him as his political hatchet man.Stark no longer cares about doing things the right way.
He does actually follow through on his promises to try and help the common people of the state, but many consider him even more dangerous than the corrupt people he’s fighting.Jack has no problems with the way that Willie runs thing until the governor gets angry at the incorruptible Judge Irwin for backing a rival in an election.
There is politics, of course, with backroom deals, garden-variety chicanery, and bombastic speeches, but there is also the wide sweep of human emotion and behavior, and the wages thereof: greed and corruption, hope and redemption, secrets and lies, the dreams of youth and the realities of age, vendettas and murder, and love.Warren’s novel centers on Willie Stark; when the story begins, he is a small-time politician in an unnamed southern state (it's Louisiana) who is tapped by the local Democratic bosses to run for governor.
Meaning to do good, Willie Stark rises from self-educated lawyer to political bigwig and eventually governor.
But he also betrays his wife; raises a selfish, self-absorbed son; corrupts good people; and eventually reaps the consequences of his actions.Willie's story is told by Jack Burden, a journalist who signs on to be Willie's right hand man.
Thinking of himself as essentially a good guy Jack believes he's 'only doing his job' when he betrays some of his closest friends at Willie's behest.I gave the book 4 stars (rather than 5) because the philosophical rantings of some characters was tedious and incomprehensible (to me).
If you read it remember it was published in 1946, as it is very filled with characters who have stereotypical notions of the time ( meaning racist and very sexist) including our narrator who though interesting enough, is not always easy to like.
Anyway to my total surprise , I'm giving this book a five star rating and thanking whomever it was who chose this as an April Selection for On The Southern Literary Trail.
Great choice !!Timely note: The 2006(audience rated 4 star) movie with Sean Penn, Jude Law, and Kate Winslet will be on Starz 4/25 and 4/26.
Having just finished my second reading (I think only two), I think the book is a better novel than I remembered it as, though I've always felt it was a "five-star" book.Of the two stories in the book (the story of Willie Stark, based loosely or perhaps not so loosely on the life of Huey Long, and the story of the narrator Jack Burden, based presumably on the imagination but perhaps also on some of the artistic and philosophical beliefs of the author), the former is more entertaining, and is easier to understand.
I was on a plane coming home from somewhere that I didn't belong and as we coasted onto the tarmac I felt a little like Jack Burden.
Not to say that I am this all knowing altruistic seeker of truth in all things, quite the opposite, but coming from somewhere I didn't fit and into where I did I felt a connection with this narrator.
Penn Warren created the single most honest, true and beautiful characters complete with faults and stupidity; I loved him.
It seemed like so many of the characters had their own opposite.
afterward you are sure that when you meet again, the gay companion will give you the old gaiety, the brilliant stranger will stir your mind from its torpor, the sympathetic friend will solace you with the old communion of spirit.
But something happens, or almost always happens, to the gaiety, the brilliance, the communion.
You remember the individual words from the old language you spoke together, but you have forgotten the grammar.
So there you are.”In this political season of 2012, ATKM provides an extended opportunity for reasoned reflection on what is and is not possible, in government and in our own lives.
I wish I had read this book a loooooooooooongggggg time ago.......
instead of trying to work together for the better welfare of "everyone" in this country.It's a book that makes you realize not one way of thinking is correct.
So many people say and act a certain way because they are afraid of what others think, but may act differently when left to their own devices.....
cause this is a southern story,but it's sentiments hit all of us......That is why I consider this , up to this point in life, of what I have read thus far, the greatest American political novel that I've ever read.Bravo, Robert!
Willie Stark constructs a narrative of meaning through his campaign for a hospital that will serve all people, regardless of income, and is not mired in the exigencies of political reality that becomes for him a trump card in any consideration of the morality of his actions.The ethically pious and occasionally self-righteous Doctor Adam Stanton serves as a foil to Stark, with their lives ultimately meeting in a tragic end as though destined by their inability to grasp the ethical possibilities of their world that the narrator, Jack Burden, eventually realizes.
Read this passage:A woman only laughs that way a few times in her life.
When a woman laughs that way it always does something to you.
You feel that way because that laugh is a revelation.
It is a spray of dewy blossom from the great central stalk of All Being, and the woman’s name and address hasn’t got a damn thing to do with it.
For all any man really wants is to hear a woman laugh like that.
And, sometimes, we read a book, and it changes us.
It is a book that made me realize how much I miss hearing that laugh.
This work would make a great primer for college English lit majors, I think Warren used every literary device and may have made up some more.
This was like watching Joe DiMaggio glide across the outfield or Ted Williams at the plate, or Led Zeppelin on stage, this was swaggering virtuosity.
Telling the fictionalized account of Huey Long, Warren goes on to create the great American novel.
Though the setting is politics, the book is not really about politics, the political stage is just a vehicle by which Warren explores a multi-layered, complicated series of thematic, interwoven observations on Western Civilization, and particularly our American chapter in that saga.
Or maybe it would be more accurate to say that I have been involved with politics for a long time at a lot of different levels.
Thanks Willie!This book makes me think about my dislike of achieving a good end via a bad means.
No, I still think that the end does not justify the means.Here is a quiz after you have finished All the King’s Men. Actually the book asks you this one.
The book went slowly for me for a while at the start but it was not long before I was looking forward to reading more the next time.
For my money, I think this is the greatest book in Southern Literature exceeding Faulkner. All the King's Men is much more than the usual purported centrality of Willie Stark's political motives and final demise, and the usual shallow analogies to Huey Long; if anything, the novel's narrator, Jack Bundren, is a cynical person whose life has unraveled. I think the one scene with Jack's father will always stay vivid as the epitome of Southern Grotesque. It is a multi-layer novel--with clarity and a moral revelation. The first paragraph is riveting, and last paragraph unforgettable.
In Willie Stark, Penn Warren has created the ultimate American antihero -- describing to the tee the populist circus the campaign trail becomes, with Willie playing off the parasitic needs of potential voters and staffers and loved ones and then making every one of them fall in love with him -- and in Jack Burden, Warren questions the notion of a passive, Common Man-type narrator, for Burden is anything but.
I am convinced that Penn Warren must have studied Buddhism or some type of Eastern religion, for there is a focus on the Nothingness of man and the impermanence of all things, the passages of straight philosophy in this book being the most surprising element for me.
Jack Burden is one of my favorite characters.
He hovers as a reflection of what could've been, yet his finality terrifies me.
The scenes detailing Burden smoking in the dark and the winds arriving from the Canadian north are amazing.
Warren eyes both Faulkner and Gibbon.
His study of power echoes the Bard, though his poetic flourishes are native-born.
He eyes his betters and replicates to placate Carson and Marsa Bill.
All The Kings Men is regarded as the best example of the political novel.
Warren looks at Time.
He ponders Power.
Warren reveals that every Icon has greasy fingers, the task is to uncover such.
This one guy starts as a champion of the people and turns into a corrupt demagogue. It's a gripping story and a terrific book - sortof a political noir - but you're like come on, that would never really happen."Listen here, there ain't anything worth doing a man can do and keep his dignity."
I first read this in Oct '06 and just re-read it for a discussion that was held in conjunction with this year's Louisiana Book Festival.
It was a pleasure to read it again.It took me so long to read this book in the first place because I thought it was going to be 'just' a fictionalized account of Huey P.
Yes, it is about politics (showing that what we have now isn't any different from the past and probably won't ever change), but it's also about power (and who holds it and why) and its effects, and the relationships between boys and fathers, boys and mothers, men and women.
Well written....but like I needed another reason to be cynical and depressed over politics right now.
The Amherst approach contrasted to Warren's finding a poem's "meaning," by emphasizing "an active tentativeness" in the classroom with mutual engagement of lit, the phrase from my mentor Bill Pritchard.
King's Men is a fine novel, probably very relevant in this Year of the Cock [Chinese, but also our political leader].
As Red Warren wrote of the Boss in his first version of Ch 1, "The real son-of-a-bitch is the rarest work of God." That's what the US apparently voted for in Nov 2016, but now they're finding what makes a Sobakievich (the Russian for that rarest work) makes a miserable and cruel leader.
This book begins as the story of Willie Stark, a politician who enters politics as an idealist but ends up becoming the very thing he fought against.
While this is the story of Willie Stark and Jack Burden, it is also very much the story of Sugar-Boy and Tiny Duffy and that random guy at the beginning whose son was a good boy who went to jail because of bad luck.
I love him because just when I thought the plot had forgotten or given up on something, it would circle around and complete itself and Jack's character growth would be right in the middle of that circle.
I go through a lot of anxiety when I decide to quit a book in the middle of it.
I really like the leader of my book club, who chose this book, however, I just couldn’t take it anymore.
If all the babble was pulled out of this book, it would probably be 100 pages.
Half the time I couldn’t tell where I was in this book.
I just wish he would tell the story.
The story of a mafia type politician.
The answer to that question is no because I’m closing the book on page 157.
This book grabbed me by the collar and pulled me in when I picked it up at the bookstore and I couldn't breathe until I finished it.This is exactly what American politics, in the essential or fundamental sense, are about.
Innocense gets you into the game, experience gets you further, ruthlessness gets you ahead.Its narrated with zest and sarcasm and this particular version is great because it throws in all of Warren's original extras- references, allusions, extra plot points, details, etc.
Avoid the remake of the movie with the great Sean Penn at all costs.
It is clear why this political novel based on the career of Huey Long is a classic. The colloquial voice of the narrator was perfect and utterly engaging. The characters were brilliantly nuanced. And the language, the similes and turn of phrase were fantastic.
Burdened with both his and his future past, emotionally detached from the society in a way that made me think of Nick from The Great Gatsby.
Jack’s initial emotional detachment, his sense of being lost in the world, his passivity, his observation of society, all the things that make me think of Nick, make them both and at the same time- both a reliable and unreliable narrator.
In essence, I think both narrators (Nick and Jack) are perfect for the novels they find themselves in.
Jack doesn’t exactly love Willie, the politician, at least not in an obvious way.
Ինձ թվում է տղամարդկանց ամեն սերնդի համար լինում է պարտադիր ընթերցանության գրականություն, որը ամենադ
