https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121315.Stairs_of_Sand
With a desert waterhole at stake, Ruth Virey must team up with her husband's brother and killer. They come up against the law and the presumed dead husband. A typical Zane Grey romantic western.
For a "quick" western read this was way to heavy on the introspection of the 3 lead characters, which I felt was repeated over and over several times to the point of redundancy.
To me, it interrupted the flow of a good story and plot.
I know this was one of his earlier works, which may explain why so much effort was spent on the description of the character's flaws and emotions instead of the usual extensive and beautiful descriptions of the surroundings where the story takes place.
I did enjoy the story line and plot, but I don't read western novels for psychological evaluations other than the brief explanations of why someone chose to be good or evil.
I was looking for a western to keep me occupied on my drive through Texas.
I was expecting an old gun-fighting western with a bit of romance.
That is not this story.Here we have romance set in the old west with minimal action.
There is action interspersed throughout the story, but this is a romance.The most enjoyable part of the story, was the descriptions Mr. Grey provides of the Arizona and California desert.
While driving through Texas and listening, I was able to appreciate areas that previously I had overlooked; or had failed to recognize for their unique beauty.
Not my favorite Grey book.
I have always liked stories by Zane Grey; westerns with just a little romance. However, some of them have a lot of descriptive passages that I find myself skipping over ... this is one.
After beng absent for 55 or 60 years I decided to read one of Grey's again with one obtained by the love of my life Dorry Lou in a bookstore in Bountiful, Utah over the Thanksgiving weekendAlthough I enjoyed it very much, it did not grip me as his books once did.
They are honor, respected and although all woman, they were placed on a pestal by Gray a lady in ever respect I've gained that same respect for the ladies in my life and my wife Dorry Lou has never disappointed me in living and performing as the women Grey wrote about
Very generally, I can take account of the period of time when a book was written, and allow the author the latitude to use common opinions of the day as acceptable.
But no matter when the book was written, I really dislike authors who contradict themselves simply because of sloppy writing.
On one page a very fine Mexican, trustworthy and kind, helps the hero and the girl.
On the next, he is a "greaser"?
Not in my book.
This book rates two stars on the strength of the wonderful description of the desert.
This book flows much easier than its predecessor (Wanderer of the Wasteland), with much less description of the scenery and more characterization and plot.
The tension is good and the ending satisfying, but the number of main characters is fairly low and the book still doesn't give as much of an impression of a "Western" as I would have liked.
Still, it was entertaining to read, and now I'm going to send both books to my brother, from whom I got the first one.
You should know that the edition I read is NOT the paperback but the original 1928 edition (got it on ebay).
For those who are not aware of it, this is the follow-up book that Zane wrote to Wanderer of the Wasteland and concludes the story of Adam. Together, the two books make an excellent story, in my opinion. Yes, the attitudes and writing style of Zane's time leave quite a lot to be desired, but that is true for most works of past generations. The story itself, the imminence of the environment, and the inner turmoil of a young soul were conveyed quite well for me.
[See my review of Wanderer of the Wasteland.]
Just like Louis L'Amour, I never thought I'd like reading westerns, but I found it hard to put down.
Old-fashioned prose, but exciting and gripping story-telling.
3 stars
Somehow, I'm just getting around to meeting Zane Grey, and this book was our introduction. I'll be back for more.
