https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3047849-killer
Meanwhile her mother continues to disown her for being stalked and having had her best friend murderer, which constitutes top-quality parenting in Rosewood.After a while the girls get together and conclude, pretty much by making it up as they go along, that Ian faked his own death in order to distract them whilst he escaped from Rosewood, but then stayed in Rosewood anyway.
Killer is the sixth book in the Pretty Little Liars series, and this one definitely isn’t my favourite of them.This instalment of the series made my love for these books waver.
I have to admit that it pretty much annoyed me and I got a little bit fed up.
I was left staring blankly with shock and confusion for a good five minutes after turning the last page of Killer.After Killer’s shock ending, I’ll be reading book seven, Heartless, as soon as it’s released next January.
I will definitely be seeing this series through to the end, if only to find out what’s really going on!
Killer started off VERY slow in the first 50 pages and I found myself a little bored but thankfully the rest of the book was entertaining, like always.
I loved reading Spencer and Emily’s parts the most.
Hanna’s character in these books frustrates me.
I loved her in the show but in the book series..
I just can’t find myself loving her.
I saw the ending coming...
but maybe that it because I have seen the show and I know that these kind of “twists” are bound to happen.
I can’t believe I still have another 10 to read..
😓But..
In at least one of the girls' parts, a previously established character is going to start acting really weird so that suspense can be maintained during their sections even though nothing is really happening.
The only way for this to be an excusable part of the plot is if the point is supposed to be that these girls are just getting paranoid.These books really rely on the ending, and this one just did not do it for me.
The ending was half as much of the book as it usually is, and it just wasn't long enough to generate as much suspense.
Killer by Sara ShepardBook six in the Pretty Little Liars seriesFirst of all, that ending oh my goshhhh!
Now I'm even more excited to continue with this series!
Giving this one three stars because not a lot was going on throughout it, until the end of course, but the girls individual stories weren't particularly that interesting in this one.
I hope Kate and Hanna's relationship grows more into friendship in the next book...
I'm in love with Sara Shepard's books, and can't wait to see where the story goes now, after that ending!!
At the root of their unhappiness – and ours – are the same, basic problems: communication and trust.Killer picks up directly where the previous novel in the series left off with the girls convinced that they've found Ian's dead body...
Despite being burned in the past for failing to talk to one another, they continue to keep secrets, using A's words to further their own agendas rather than banding together, actually communicating, and solving the mysteries destroying their lives.
A always wins, and, until the Liars start to communicate and trust each other, A will continue to have free reign to do whatever A wants.
And pure little Emily's abstaining from abstinence.Let me just say about 10% of that is what actually happens in this book.
Again, there's still no new information there so I'm not sure why we need to be reminded that Ali had a piece of a flag that was stolen from her by her own brother *gasp*.Emily's new boyfriends family hates her - well the mom especially.
Spencer took a page from Emily's naivety and literally lost everything.Aria - who doesn't have a boyfriend in this book despite what the description said - is pining for Jason, Ali's older brother.
I don't have a lot to say about them, but that's a good thing.The ending was something I expected to happen 2 or 3 books ago, but better late than never, I guess...By now I'm expecting something in the lines of the entire town being in on the joke and Aria, Emily, Spencer and Hanna are 4 puppets in the Rosewood Show.I can't say I'm still looking forward to what's coming as much as I did when I was reading the first books, but I'm still curious.
**Spoiler alert**Would have given it 4 stars if it weren't for the last 2 words I read!"It was Ali" I can't believe my eyes.
So, could it really be Ali?!The things that happened to the girls in between the chapters left me with a very sad face, though.
Why doesn't she just live with her mum without buying an apartment?!
I really liked her character before she started getting all jealous from Kate.I was really thrilled to find out that Em was intersted in a boy!
His mum on the other hand is unbelievably a moron.
Wow, Ali is back!
This series seriously gets on my nerves.
I love reading this series but I hate how I have to wait so many months till the next one comes out.
(I guess that is what makes the books so good and frustrating at the same time) This book was really good and it gave a lot of clues about Ali's 'murder.' (notice that I put quotation marks) There weren't that many A notes but the book still fulfilled its mission.
Btw, (spoiler alert) I always thought that Ali was still alive, so I can't wait till the next book to find out if that really was Ali.
Wow this book was so good! That ending was so intense! I need to read the next book but I have to wait until next month to read it :)
Even if it was needed to give hints, too much repetition bothers my reading flow.So the drama continues without a yield since old A kicked the bucket and a new diabolical, yet confusing new A is torturing our four favourite little liars.
New A seems to have a twist to his/her intentions for harassing Aria, Spencer, Hanna and Emily.
For once they find themselves in trouble all by themselves with not much help from A’s twisted threats and consequences.
Good cliffhanger and, overall, good read with the needed dose of drama.
Book six in the Pretty Little Liars seriesCan someone please explain to me what just happened?
I believe, shortly, there's going to be a blowout where Xavier tells Ella what's happened because Aria won't spend time with him and Ella will refuse to talk to Aria.
I'll bet money that the relationship won't last long because Hanna will drive Mike nuts.
Spencer thought she could just move out of her parents house, move near her "birth mother", and live happily ever after.
I still don't think Jason killed Ali. He's crazy, but maybe not enough to kill his sister.
To get ready for reading this book, I looked back on my reviews of the earlier books and flipped through my copy of Wicked.
Just doing that was enough to convince me to go online and buy a copy of the seventh book, Heartless without having even yet cracked open this book (the sixth in the series).
I'm glad I did, because having read this book in one delightfully lazy day (I think I read it in three sittings total), I'm practically panting for the next one.
Toward the end of reading this book (having stayed up well past my usual bedtime to do so), I started feeling really physically uncomfortable.
At A GlanceGenre: Young Adult; MysteryLove Triangle/Insta Love?: Slight Love Triangles Cliff Hanger: Yes!!Rating: 5 STARS!Score SheetAll out of tenCover: 8Plot: 8Characters: 8World Building: 8Flow: 10Series Congruity: 10Writing: 9Ending: 10Total: 9In DepthBest Part: The ending!
Worst Part: Girls can be dumbbb.Overall Feels Felt: Nail biting; Why you so dumb?!; Oh shitttt.ConclusionContinuing the Series: YESRecommending: YESMisc.: Trigger Warning; eating disordered talked about.Short Review: Spencer, you dumb b, you should have done wayyyyy more research.
I was waiting for the pin to drop since ending book 5 and i feel like i got that.
I can't believe it ended like that.
Killer (Pretty Little Liars #6), Sara Shepard
Loved reading this and loved the "ending"... I need to start the next book asap!
I suspect she delighted in seeing her characters suffer.
Just when u thought things are going real good for the girls, then disaster strikes.
In Killer, we have a different set of person being suspected as A.
Story is the usual as we see how the girls being tear down to pieces.
All of the adults in this book are very unlikeable.
I find myself sympathizing the girls and wish those god damn adult will fucking give them a break.
I know better that this story is far from over
AND I DONT CARE IF KATE TRULY DOES WANT TO BE HER FRIEND, SHE IS A BITCH!ARIA- I CANNOT BELIEVE XAVIER IS SUCH A JERK.
I FEEL SO BAD FOR HER BUT NOT TELLING ELLA ABOUT THIS IS SO GOING TO BITE HER IN THE ASS.
I WAS SOOO EXCITED ABOUT HER AND JASON DILAURENTIS, I CANT BELIEVE HE IS SUCH A PHYSCO!
EVERYTIME I START TO LIKE YOU THE NEXT PAGE YOU PISS ME OFF.
BUT IT LOOKS LIKE ALL HER SKELTONS ARE OUT OF THE CLOSET SO WHATS NEXT WITH HER?AS FOR THE ENDING- WTF!!!!???????!!!!!!!??????
AND WILDEN AND JASON ARE THE KILLERS?!WTF
Hmh. Aina sama juttu. Parisataa sivua on pelkkää turhaa draamaa ja jaarittelua ja viimeiset 50 sivua mennään jyrinällä eteenpäin. Jokainen tämän sarjan kirjoista tuntuu menevän samalla kaavalla.Aluksi haluan antaa tälle vain 1 tähden, mutta sitten tapahtuu jotain ja viihdynkin viimeisten kappaleiden parissa, enkä voi enään antaa sitä yhtä tähteä. Hirveitä cliffhangereita nämä loput.Ehkä mun pitää silti jatkaa tän parissa, viimeistään kun seuraavan osan deadline lähestyy. Tämä saa 2.5 tähteä.
!!!! (That was me when I got to the end) I cannot wait for the next book to come out...
(hide spoiler)]• And we continue with the whole Xavier drama on Aria's plot, I just wish Aria would gather the courage to tell her mom what a shitty boyfriend Xavier really is, (view spoiler)[that scene at the end were Aria has been clearly ignoring Xavier for the entire book and we comes and says "I missed you, did you missed me too" like WHAT THE HELL DUDE, there is being a jerk and then there is being a psychotic horny dog with some weird fantasy about banging a mother and her kid at the same time.
(hide spoiler)]• About Spencer meeting her (view spoiler)[birth mother, I don't buy that this woman is her actual mother, everything just seems to weird and easy, I'm still reading the book right now and can't stop feeling this is yet another of A's plot.
(Audiobook format) This one was not my favorite of the series. It was a little slow throughout the book. The book as a whole felt almost like a filler. Until it hot to the end. The end made the slower pace the rest of the book had almost cancel it self out. That ending was outstanding. It took my breath away. The best cliffhanger of the series so far. I immediately started the next audiobook.
I really liked the last couple of chapters but the A in this arc feels inferior to the one from the first.
WHAT THE ACTUAL FUCK?????????????????WHO DID JUST MAKE ITS APPEARANCE?????
SPOILER ALERT: If you haven’t read the first 5 books of the Pretty Little Liars series do not read any further.Hanna, Aria, Spencer, and Emily thought things would get better when A was killed.
She knows if she tells her mom it will ruin their relationship for good but could moving closer to the woods where Ian disappeared be a dangerous mistake?Spencer thought her life was only going to get better since she found out she was adopted and at first things seem great.
312 pages Genre: mystery Now that the old A is dead, Hanna, Aria, Emily and Spencer think that they are free from harassment. However, what they don’t know is that there is a new A that is out to get them and is worse than the first! Hanna’s convinced her new stepsister, Kate, is out to take down her entire reputation, (which isn’t looking too hot thanks to thee mysterious A) so she decides to fight fire with fire and tries to go for Aria’s younger brother, who Kate pretends to like. Will Hanna
312 pages		Genre: mystery	Now that the old A is dead, Hanna, Aria, Emily and Spencer think that they are free from harassment.
The character I would like to have as my friend would be Alison DiLaurentis because out of all the characters, she is the girl with the most will and drive to do things.
The best part of the book is the last two pages…The always devious A lighted the forest behind Spencer’s house on fire and Emily and Hanna were caught in it.
What the heck just happened????While this book was a little low-key on the drama than the previous ones, it doesn't mean that A.
I felt like her drama wasn't that bad in this one.
That was a little mean what she did with Mike, but I do think Hanna kind of deserved it.
Although, that it is completely different in the TV Show (which I happen to like better), it doesn't mean that I didn't enjoy them in the book.
If it is, who I think it is then that means the next book is going to be awesome.
To start off, I would just like to say that this review might actually contain spoilers as this book is fairly far into the series, so those of you who haven't read the first five books might not want to continue on reading this review.The writing in this book is great.
The cliff hanger is incredible and it makes you want to have the next book ready to read right after you finish Killer.I'm just going to come out and say it.
The perfect life like a doll's world.
There is no need to repeat everything that has happened since book one.
Repeatedly, at that.-I must have read about that stupid scene where everyone tries to steal Ali's flag piece twenty times (not to mention that scene was also overly played out in book five, too)-Why is it necessary that whenever Mona's name is mentioned, Shepard is compelled to remind us that she's been "plotting" against Hannah for years?
This must have happened three times in this book-Yes, we all know Aria is a slut.
This is hands-down the worst book in the series.
