https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/166580.The_Sandman
A dreamy masterpiece! This TPB is the original prose novella written by Neil Gaiman with illustrations of Yoshitaka Amano. Don’t get it confused with the comic book format version featuring artwork of P. Craig Russell. DREAM TEAM  You would not seek to question a poem, or a falling leaf, or the mist on the mountaintop,… …Why, then, do you question me? You may be aware of who is Neil Gaiman, the renowed British writer that got fame precisely with The Sandman comic book series, but also he has wr
You may be aware of who is Neil Gaiman, the renowed British writer that got fame precisely with The Sandman comic book series, but also he has written several prose novels like American Gods, Stardust, Coraline, The Graveyard Book and The Ocean at the End of the Lane, just to mention some of the most popular ones.However, you may haven’t heard of Yoshitaka Amano, at least not for his name, but it’s very likely that you know his work if you’re into anime & manga.
Oh hey, I know this story! Well, my version didn't have Cain and Abel and the Raven in it, but the monk and fox part was familiar. Not what I was expecting at all. Slightly disappointed to not get something new to me, but this was a very well-done version with lovely illustrations.
This Japanese folk tale was fairly familiar to me, but it was a pleasure to read an expanded version of it and then to discover in the afterword that Gaiman was a bit freaked out to see how close the story fit in with his Sandman series. Though sometimes rather dark (in coloring), the art had much going on in it, and my favorite page was a hitherto uncharacteristic burst of colorful birds, reminding me of a Walter Inglis Anderson (a favorite artist of mine).
A beautiful novella fairy story done in faux Japanese fable form by Gaiman at the top of his form.
Recently, after the latest Sandman Overture was released, I went back and reread all of the classic Sandman series from the 90s.
Completest that I try to be, I'm glad I read this which was the first time Gaiman went back to the Sandman.Often, the best Sandman stories are the ones that feature Morpheus (also known as the King of All Night's Dreaming here) as a peripheral character.
The more mythological short stories about dreams and gods, with smaller-scale main characters against the backdrop of Gaiman's impressive fantasy world.
Gaiman + Amano is a pairing that's like a dream come true, pun intended. Gaiman blends his Sandman characters with a Japanese fable and Amano, the artist and character designer behind many Final Fantasy games illustrates. It's beautiful, and while some video game fans complain that Amano is a one-trick pony, I think that having more of his signature style can only be a good thing.
O 5ος τόμος του Sandman που ήδη διαβάζω, έχει μία μικρή ιδιαιτερότητα μιάς και το πρώτο του μέρος έχει μεταφραστεί σε ένα αυτοτελές βιβλίο στα Ελληνικά. Οι "Κυνηγοί των Ονείρων" μας μεταφέρουν την εκδοχή του Gaiman στο Γιαπωνέζικο παραμύθι "Η Αλεπού ο Μοναχός και ο Βασιλιάς των Ονείρων" με μία ΑΠΙΘΑΝΗ εικονογράφηση από τον Yoshitaka Amano. Μία αλεπού ερωτεύεται έναν ερημίτη μοναχό και αποφασίζει να θυσιάσει τη ζωή της για να τον γλιτώσει από τον μοχθηρό άρχοντα Ονμιότζι. Κυκλοφορεί από τις εκδόσεις ΟΞΥ, μην το χάσετε.
Không rõ là do Neil Gaiman viết quá tốt hay do người dịch đã dịch quá mượt mà khi lần đầu đọc truyện mình không hề nghĩ câu chuyện này do một người Anh viết ra.
Thần muốn nó được trả về cho thần.”Nhưng, nhà vua đáp, nếu ta trả giấc mơ lại cho ngươi, ngươi sẽ phải chết thay cho nàng.
Ngươi đã chọn lựa đúng, dù phải hi sinh một chút, Mộng Đế nói với nhà sư.
“Nhưng ngài đã hứa giúp thiếp!” nàng giận dữ nói.Và ta đã giúp ngươi rồi.“Chuyện này thật không công bằng,” nàng nói.Không, Mộng Đế đáp.
Enchanting, utterly romantic and Amano Yoshika's illustrations are hauntingly beautiful.Absolutely adored this, and will probably re-read in the future.
(This is long before Matthew's time.)one of my favorite moments (some lines have been left out):(view spoiler)["What good did it do?" the raven asked."Good?" asked the King of All Night’s Dreaming…"Lessons were learned," said the pale king.
Particularly the monk...""But he is dead," said the raven."Come to that, so are you, my raven, but there were lessons in here for you as well.""And did you also learn a lesson?"But the pale king chose not to answer and remained wrapped in silence…I’m not sure what’s meant by this… but given everything else we know about Dream, he has an unusually sympathetic attitude toward the fox and the monk considering that they ignored the warnings he gave them.
Other Sandman stories (from before Dream's imprisonment) have made it pretty clear that he’s not very sympathetic toward failure.
In particular, Gaiman captures the elusive spirit of the fox (or 'kitsune', which are as mysterious and versatile as they are pervasive in Japanese myth) exceedingly well, weaving about it a tale of fear against contentment and love against sacrifice morphed (forgive the pun) to fit seamlessly with the established Sandman canon.Yoshitaka Amano's illustrations truly make this novel however, and the flow and substance of the prose owe much to the art's ability to bring appropriate elements to the fore and add emphasis.
But this is here duly overcome to make The Dream Hunters a worthy side story to the excellent Sandman series.
It's a little inaccurate to tag this as a graphic novel, as it's actually more of a novella with illustrations.
The illustrations are gorgeous -- but then, I expected that, since it's illustrated by Yoshitaka Amano (who did a lot of designs for the Final Fantasy game series).It's a simple little story, based on a Japanese myth.
The writing feels very much like a fairy tale, which is nice; Gaiman is good at adapting his writing.
It's interesting to see how easily Dream and his realm are woven into the story which, I'm told, isn't much different to the original folk tale.
A retelling of a Japanese fairy tale, with Gaiman's Sandman characters grafted onto certain roles. This is not a comic book but an illustrated novella. It's a decent story, though it isn't up to the caliber of his best Sandman stories. What distinguishes this book most is the lovely multi-page spreads of Yoshitaka Amano's artwork. Worth having if you are a Sandman or Amano fan.
I particularly loved the Japanese-inspired art and mythology. So pretty. It would be easy to believe that somehow the Sandman mythos could be part of Japanese mythological history. It feels real.Library copy
Gorgeous artwork. This tale is less a graphic novel and more an illustrated novella. I love this visit to Dream and the world of Sandman mixed with Japanese myth.
Yoshitaka Amano's art is beautiful.
Hätte Neil Gaiman nicht im Epilog geschrieben, dass dies eine Erweiterung/Adaption einer japanischen Erzählung ist, ich hätte es nicht bemerkt; mir war sie nicht bekannt, aber ich kenne mich in der japanischen Sagenwelt auch nicht aus. Unabhängig davon mochte ich die Art und Weise, wie die Geschichte erzählt wurde; sie hat zu mir gesprochen und die Illustrationen von Yoshitaka Amano sind ... ich habe kein Adjektiv, um sie in ihrer Gesamtheit zu beschreiben, sie sind zart, lebendig, farbenfroh, düster, beängstigend, wärmend, fremdartig. Sie komplettieren die Geschichte wunderbar.
Another beautiful and haunting Sandman story - probably my favorite of the ones I have read so far. The original subject matter was obviously well researched and the illustrations were absolutely gorgeous. (view spoiler)[This story is proof that not every story has to have a happy ending - it's all the more fantastic because it doesn't. (hide spoiler)] Truly, a fairy tale for adults.
Linda historia pero el dibujo fenomenal.
5.0 "Realidad o sueño..."  "No sé como fue que llegaste a mí o yo a ti. Ni si fue realidad o un sueño, despierto o dormido. Estoy perdido en la oscuridad de un abatido corazón, sueño o realidad, que se decida esta noche." ¡Basta ya! de darle largas, esta novela la leí hace ya 3 meses (¡cómo vuela el tiempo!) Por allá en septiembre muy cerca de mi cumpleaños, había iniciado a leer lo que para mi sería solo una lectura para matar el rato, una fabula japonesa que aparentaba ir sobre animales y sueñ
No tardé mucho en darme cuenta la magia que transpiraba esta historia, era como si el misticismo de los sueño se fusionara con lo poético de la vida y a través de viñetas te mostrará como funcionaban las cosas.
Muy pocos personajes conforman esta novela, pero hacen tan buena combinación que es como si creasen un micro universo dentro de las propias paginas, nadie sobra y nadie hace falta, algo de lo que Gaiman debe saber mucho.
La habilidad de contar una historia es algo que al parecer le brota por los poros a Gaiman, ya sea una novela gráfica, cómic, cuento, servilleta rayada, relato, lo que sea!
Posted on my book blog.Background: I am a big fan of Neil Gaiman and his Sandman series.
The fox and the badger wanted this temple for a den, and decided that whoever got the monk to abandon it would win it.
But the monk wasn't easily deceived, and somewhere along the way, the fox falls in love with him.
And so begins a tale of love, sadness and sacrifice.I don't know why this book had such a strong effect on me.
In fact, even though I love Neil Gaiman's writing, Yoshitaka Amano's art is what made this book truly shine (in more than one way).
The Dream Hunters is an absolute beauty.
Gaiman's prose is exact but rich, and Amano's art is wow, just wow.The book genuinely felt like an old, old Japanese tale seamlessly embedded in the world of the Dream King.
There is one loud message here: that the world of Sandman is vast, boundless and universal.
The Dream Hunters is a trademark Gaiman storytelling: simple, elegant and strangely familiar yet enthralling and engaging from the start to the end.Amano?
YES.
Oh hell yes.
He made this novella an art museum!
Before I was only exposed with his Final Fantasy art, and indeed those are fantastic.
This is more of an illustrated story than a graphic novel.
Amano's artwork and the Japanese aesthetic rein in Gaiman's excessive tendency to throw in the kitchen sink, in this telling, retelling actually, of the story of the fox and the monk.
The story is wonderful and the artwork even more so.
Amano really should have gotten top billing since Gaiman is basically just retelling a Japanese fairy tale with some Sandman flourishes.Thoroughly enjoyable although not really part of the Sandman canon.
Whoever was really responsible for this collaboration should get the real credit.Sadly this book actually belongs to my daughter...
This isn't a graphic novel but a beautifully illustrated book.
In fact the illustrations are the best part.
Neil does his best attempt at a Japanese style version of a Sandman story.
It didn't feel quite right to me.
It had some of the elements of a Japanese fairy tale, but it felt a little clumsy round the edges and the transitions.
But then I'm not that familiar with Japanese literature, just know my Buddhist literature and fox spirits from Chinese literature and religion so perhaps that was my problem.
Still it is a sweet story and the illustrations are gorgeous.
In one word: Beautiful. This book brings together all the fantasy of The Sandman with the ancient magic of a japanese legend. If you read it long enough, you might even feel that you are reading some ancient scroll, with real ancient japanese drawings.
A dreamy (pardon the pun) interpretation of Asian mythology thru the lens of the Sadman.The prose writing and the artwork interact beautifully, creating a breataking reading experience.|Highly recommended.
While Gaiman's contribution was charming (as always), Yoshitaka Amano's art was heart stoppingly exquisite. Words will not suffice.
One of the most beautiful books I have ever read.
This is a masterpiece.
♥
Fabula japonesa ambientada en el mundo de Sueño donde Gaiman vuelve a demostrar que es un maestro contando historias.
