https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/465904.Dragonsdawn
This is one of the series that I read that began to peak my interest in Fantasy.
I think this is also the series that began my love of dragons!
And this series is still wonderful!This book is about arriving at Pern, settling Pern, thread falling and them creating the dragons.
I would not recommend reading this book first if you have never read the Pern series.
The first dragons that are born and the bond that is made between dragon and rider is amazing.
I thoroughly recommend reading this series if you have not, but look up the preferred reading order, not the chronological order.
The novel extends through the gamut from utopian dream to body horror armageddon to epic triumph, and that's before you add in the multiple romantic subplots, and a couple of more sinister threads (no pun intended); it follows a range of characters both old and young, and its events span about a decade.That's an ambitious novel, for a pulp genre book.The problem is...
It is a wonderful story that includes the creation of the Dragons from the fire lizards, some of the top people that locations were named after, and a view of how a lot of the culture and traditions began.
I love the science that is included in this book, but I don't think it is so "science-y" that most people would be overwhelmed.
Reading the entire Pern series chronologically, the careful reader will find some holes and inconsistencies in the story.
I have most of the series and it is one of my favorite fallback series when I need to grab a book real quick.
I'm still not sure how Pernese society got from here to what we see in Lessa's time (other than twenty-five hundred years of increasingly feudal society, but damn), but a lot of the, hm, cultural(?) issues I have upon adult rereadings of the Pern books (women are only good for breeding except in rare cases and even if they're kind of useful we hate it when they get uppity I'm looking at you Mirrim!
Avril Bitra is still the dumbest villain I've run across in a long time (seriously - why would she come to Pern in the first place?!), and I do not understand why the bad guys were given names of Holds that exist in Lessa's day.
I think this is my favorite of all the Pern books. It's especially satisfying to read after the original trilogy - it explains how things got they way they did. It's fascinating to reflect on what would cause a high-technology, space travelling society to revert to a feudalistic state.
Growing up with alcoholics makes for a chaotic environment!I had forgotten how clear-cut McCaffery's world was: there is very little "grey" in her characters, people are easily seen as either "good guy" or "bad guy", and the bad guys' motives are even fairly pure.
This sort of black and white world can be very appealing to a confused 14 - 16 year old who really wished she could understand the motivations of the people around her.
As an adult who has a much better grasp of the complexity of human nature, I'm not certain how much it will continue to hold me.
This is the story of how people came to Pern, the discovery of threadfall, and the genesis of the dragons.The first 47 pages of this book contained some of the most boring sentences that I have ever read.
I can sum up the first 47 pages for you right now: A bunch of colonists get in a spaceship and fly far enough away that there is only enough fuel for it to be a one way trip.
I suppose that there was character developing information in there, but it was such a snooze fest that most people are better off reading my summary and starting on page 48.
Anne McCaffrey is my mom's all-time favorite author, so she pushed this book onto me.
I still had a hard time getting into it.
There were so many characters for me to keep track of and there wasn't a whole lot happening at parts.
I get the feeling that those who read the other books would not have been confused as I was.
I had to keep taking breaks and read other books, as this book wasn't keeping my attention.
I like the general plot and the merging of science and fantasy.
Also, dragons!I just wished I could've liked it more.
I love this book sooooo much. I love Sorka and Sean so much. I didn't forget that that, but it's been years and years since I read it, so I was primed to fall in love all over again. I listened to it as an audiobook, which is usually something that takes me a while to get through, but I did not want to stop listening.(It does not entirely hold up to the test of time, though. McCaffrey's non-hero women aren't portrayed in the best light. And the science and tech is now dated.)
Weer een geweldig boek in deze serie waarbij we helemaal teruggaan naar het begin van het verhaal. Een grote groep mensen komen naar de planeet Pern omdat zij een nieuwe maatschappij willen oprichten waar meer gelet wordt op zelfredzaamheid en een minder technische manier van leven. Dus veel landbouw en veeteelt. Het verhaal is spannend en ook het ontstaan van de eerste draken is fijn om te lezen. Een 9 maar hier een 10.
Completely isolated from all help, their only hope of survival is if they can somehow genetically engineer a fire-breathing indigenous creature, known as a dragonet, into a larger form capable of destroying the Thread as it falls.It actually took me a little bit to get into this book.
It helps, of course, to have read other books in the Pern series, though this has a pretty good stand alone plot, so you could probably read this first and still enjoy it.
It is the first book in the series, chronologically, and it explains how humans came to be on Pern, and how they came to have honest-to-goodness, fire-breathing, telepathic, teleporting dragons.
I have loved this series but this one really came to a stall for me about halfway through. I was eager to read about the initial colonization of Pern and how they bonded with the dragonets (fire lizards) and dragons for the first time. Maybe there was too much going on that it was distracting. Human dramas, figuring out how to live together & the best places to live, dealing with volcanos, the deadly & ecologically devastating Threadfall and wanting to know the source, engineering dragons and more. Still very interesting and I do love those dragons and dragonets!!!!
As colonist settle the new planet they call Pern they run into several obstacles. First is a space parasite they will call thread that destroys all organic material. Then they have settled in a volcano zone. To counter thread the settlers will bio-engineer flying dragons. This is a great read.
It was a re-read. The Pern books got me though adolescence. Everyone needs to read at least one!
:DRight from the beginning of Dragonsdawn we get to see a host of names and characters that are famous from the books previous Pern books written before Dragonsdawn, though set later, that are recognisable immediately which gives us an insight straight away into some of the back story that Dragonsdawn is covering!
In terms of series order with what book happened first in the timeline, Dragonsdawn, as its name suggests is at the very beginning.Dragonsdawn describes the first colonists on Pern and their discovery of the disastrous Thread, and the development of telepathic Thread-fighting dragons.
It is focused more on action, rather than character development.It's interesting that McCaffrey chose to write this story quite a ways into the Pern series.
This part isn't so different from most space-focused stories, and I assume it's rather similar in style to other stories written in this time period.The second part reveals the Thread and the use of the fire lizards.
So if the whole point of it is supposed to be in inside jokes about the world of Pern and casual explanations of the little details of the world-building of the other books, then I've missed it.
Let's say it's a book focused on the world-building, rather than the plot or characters.
I often enjoy those, but here, I just thought that too many details of the world-building were severely lacking.
Enough said.)I suppose my point is that when there's no decent plot, no interesting character, and the wodl-building only holds water as long as you don't look at the details of the social organisation...
I started reading Pern around the age of thirteen, and they are still my favourites even many years on.Dragonsdawn is written later than the original books, but covers the time when colonists first landed on Pern to begin a new pastoral life away from the Federated Sentient Planets and their greed.
Before things get too 'boring' (though to be fair, the way she writes about packing crates could actually keep me enthralled), fire-lizards are discovered and events very quickly start to progress as natural dangers rear their ugly heads and the greed and trouble-making of a few of the colonists rears an equally ugly head.It is very clear that when writing the first books of the Pern series, set in the ninth pass, that she knows the origin story for her creation.
This is a re-read -- I burned my way through all the Dragonriders books in high school and absolutely loved them, regardless of the fact that McCaffrey is (should I say was?
Apart from the quality of writing, there are some fairly heterosexist, antifeminist threads running through this book (for all that McCaffrey was a woman) that just rub me the wrong way.
Definitely a different feel, and some of the details seem bizarre unless you know they're winks and nods to already published books that take place in the future of the story's timeline.
Заря драконов-это не совсем про тот Перн, к которому я привыкла по прошлым книгам.
Абсолютная утопия, которая невозможно на Земле ни в какое время: ни сейчас, ни в прогрессивном мире Федерации Разумных Планет.Ты как будто своими глазами видишь эти земли, небо, два континента, дракончиков, которых впервые нашли Сорка и Шон.
Заря драконов объективно описывает время задолго до белого дракона, до Лессы, даже до Древних.
Но могу отнести это к тому, что Энн, как и мне, больше нравится тема более поздних всадников.Мне правда дико понравилась Заря драконов, но отзыв получился суховат и коротковат.
Однако Перн-это одна из немногих вселенных, в которых хочется жить)
I've been wanting to reread this series for a while and I have finally started the fantastic journey again!
They seem to get deeper as I better understand them as I get older.This book is fantastic if you've read the story before as you can really pick up on all the connections in the other books and you finally get a history to the world of Pern.
It's contrasted well with the presented viewpoints of the youngsters and later when they are more Pernese than Terran.I love the story with these books.
...Dragonsdawn is a prequel of sorts and I guess to an extend is suffers from the problems many of these books almost inevitably run in to.
I guess that problem is what really tips the scale for me.
Compared to Dragonsflight, McCaffrey's writing has matured a lot but with a more or less predictable story and the book's tendency to jump from one character to the next in rapid succession, it is not really a satisfactory read.
None of the characters really develop enough depth to draw me into their story or make me feel more that a touch concerned for their wellbeing.
I've heard some good things about the Pern series and Anne McCaffrey over the years.
Unfortunately, this prequel to the original Dragonriders of Pern books is nothing if not uninteresting.
Sadly, McCaffrey's writing is often plodding, many if not most of the characters are uninteresting and don't rise above two-dimensions, and the few exciting scenes in the narrative are over all too quickly.
I've been told the original Pern books are considered classics for a reason but I'm just not sure I'm motivated to find out why after reading this volume.
The stack started at books I thought I would find less interesting and proceeded downward to those I thought would be more to my new-to-the-fantasy-genre taste.
It is in this book that I found a certain contentment with science fiction, though it was never a genre I was particularly interested in, while it filled my vast appetite for all things dragon.
Since I'm one of those people that constantly has to figure out how or why things have come to be, especially when discussing fantastical worlds and creatures, watching the slow evolution of Pern's dragons before ever reading any of the other Dragonriders of Pern novels was probably the best way to introduce me to this world.
I feel like many of the characters set up to be major ones in subsequent books were not always very well-rounded, and for many of them I don't really care what becomes of them.
I was mostly disappointed to learn, in coversation with other Dragonriders readers, that all the rest of the books I can look forward to reading take place from this time up to that of 'White Dragon'...
The characters in the later times are ones I want to know more about, while these 'originals' I don't much care about...
It's interesting how some of the sci fi still feels fresh, but some of it is so dated (book tapes!
And introducing Earth flora and fauna seems like a really bad idea, ecology-wise.
You purposefully set it up so there's no way off!
McCaffrey seems to make a point of address many of the issues of the first Pern books (lack of women in positions of authority, sexism, lack of POCs), which makes sense because it was written years after the first two book and depicts a pretty egalitarian society that had not fallen into a feudal state.
Out of all of the Dragonriders of Pern books (and trust me, I've read all 24 of them, some many, many times), Dragonsdawn is my favorite!In Dragonsdawn, the book starts with the original colonists seeing Pern for the first time from space and going through the trevails of settling on a brand new world.
They also create the dragons for future generations to fight thread.I love the characters and how we get to see the colonists thrive and grow those first 8 years.
And then we get the science of creating the dragons from fire lizards.
Just loved it!This is the first time listening on audiobook so it felt like a new experience.
I enjoyed re-reading this tale about the original settlement of Pern.
I loved seeing where some of he Pernese place-names came from.Like many Pern books, it's pretty plot-driven, without much in-depth character development.
This book perhaps even more so because it covers such a span of years.
I was seriously irritated by the Bitra, Nabol, and related characters.
They were so one-sidedly evil as to not be believable, and how on earth did they get Holds named after them later on?
Also really really hate how McCaffrey always makes a woman who enjoys sex an indication that she's evil.
Rereading Moreta and Nerilka made me want to start at the beginning again--Dragonsdawn holds up just as well as those two, I think. And it's a lot more science fiction than the chronologically later books in the series, which feel more like science fantasy at times. This sets up all the history of the colonists and their initial arrival and settlement on Pern, including the genetic engineering of the dragons, as the title suggests.
I might have rated it higher, but it is hard to tell. Between vast numbers of interruptions, and finding out I'd read some bit out of order, all I can say is that it seemed like a good book, and I wish I'd actually gotten to read it. I intend to go back to this one - after the last kids move out and the dogs (hopefully) go with them. ;-)
