https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13569581-blood-song
Blood Song has a battle school as its central focus and we watch our protagonist progress from small boy to large young man through arduous training and a series of very dangerous tests, acquiring a group of firm friends with various talents as he goes.This is all set in a skillfully executed flashback which our protagonist narrates to a historian on his way to a duel.
Finally it brings us full circle to the historian and the duel.It's all good stuff.
Before Rothfuss was Harry Potter, and that was a good number of years before Rothfuss.
It was five years before Potter that Pillars Of The Earth fell into my hands.
So I’ve been working on an average of one Utterly Captivating Read every five years or so.
Watching the last page of Name Of The Wind blink offscreen, I knew it was going to be another five years before I found one of those Utterly Captivating Reads.Now, that’s not to say there haven’t been other great books.
It’s a book that costs less than a large bag of cheetos, for crying out loud!
Before he is even 13, the main character's reputation for battle-hardiness and skill is known and whispered about throughout the land.Females fall for him, right and left, before his balls have even dropped and his voice has cracked.Gary-Stu-ism aside, I'm not sure if I have an older version of the book or what, but it is so filled with errors that the grammar Nazi inside me was yelling "NEIN, NEIN!!!!!"Commas.
A masterwork you don't want to miss; it is with temerity that I declare Blood Song as one of the best debut novels I've ever read.Why do I love this book?
Now, it's time for me to take on the role of the Chronicler and inform you why it's essential for you to read Vaelin Al Sorna's coming-of-age story.The Sword of the Realm, the Young Hawk, Darkblade, the Shadow of the Raven, and Hope Killer; it's not an exaggeration to say that Vaelin has obtained many names throughout his life.
I have been known to forgive editing errors in favor of a good story.
"Honoured Sir," I replied formally.This little exchange is problematic for me, and given the iffy history of correct comma usage in this story, I have no way of knowing whether "Honoured Sir" is intended as an honorific or status title, or if they are each stating the they are honored to meet the other, as in "Honoured, Sir." And the context doesn't help to figure it out.
I have standards, and this book didn't come anywhere close to meeting them, so I'm not going to waste my time on it anymore.
If you like your fantasy Rothfuss or Sanderson-style this is a great book for you. It's a meaty epic fantasy with a really strong main character. I was sucked in and definitely want to read the next one!
Maybe I'll come back to it at a time when I can understand the 4.51 average rating.
You know - a tiny 1% of those who read this book rated it 2 stars or less.
As you're probably realizing, that means 93% either "really liked it" or thought "it was amazing".
I mentioned this in one of my youtube videos, but I don't like most romance books because they're so predictable.
I mean, you know what's going to happen, don't you?
This guy sweats faultlessness from the age of 12.So, like, I feel I already know what's going to happen with this guy.
Fantastic. Although, I worry about the rest of the trilogy as they don't have as good of reviews. I will check them later! Mel 🖤🐾🐺
Anthony Ryan is a new fantasy author destined to make his mark on the genre. His debut novel, Blood Song, certainly has it all: great coming of age tale, compelling character, and a fast-paced plot. If his first book is any indication of things to come, then all fantasy readers should rejoice as a new master storyteller has hit the scene.Update: I just received an ARC of Anthony's third book in this series. So I just finished a re-read of this.
2/7/18 - ON SALE for $2.99:  http://amzn.to/2xO5E0nReviewed by: Rabid ReadsSooooo . . . if you haven't already noticed, I've been on something of a fantasy kick of late. It's been years since I've gotten back to my roots, so now I'm playing catch-up. Anthony Ryan has been on my TBR for even longer than I'd realized . . . I have a problem . . . It's called "one-clicking." You may have a similar problem . . . *snickers*Apparently I one-clicked BLOOD SONG before it got snapped up by Ace, b/c, yes,
Who is this War Champion that he should win the respect and friendship of a man whose city he took by force?Vaelin Al Sorna, that's who.And Historian, being a chronicler of history, finds that he cannot resist the urge to record a firsthand account of the war and the events leading up to the invasion from one who would know the enemy's---King Janus of the Unified Realm---mind, when War Champion offers to tell his story during their voyage (to the PIRATE NATION where the duel is to take place).From there we go backward.
Blood Song is, perhaps, the greatest self-published story i have read in the past five years.To begin with, it features one of my two favorite fantasy schemes.
Fast at the beginning, steady at the core of the story, and slowly reversed at the epilogue.All in all, Blood Song is the perfect combination of an amazing plot, a perfectly built world, and a compelling storytelling from a great author.If you have yet to read it, a trip to the local bookstore is what you have to make.
Sale Alert 9/30/17: On Amazon for $2.99Re-read before Queen of Fire is released.Original Review September 20144.5 StarsThis Series is so hard to review...So Many Great Things Happened....Just Read It. Bloodsong is the journey of a boy into becoming a man with enough power to change the world. The majority of this books focuses on the bond built between brothers, bonds that can’t be broken no matter what you have done. It is hard to capture Bloodsong accurately in a review because it has a fully
He makes mistakes and sacrifices along the way and there were enough twists and turns that I was kept guessing the entire book.Vaelin is the son of a famous Warrior and healer.
Never once did I question the man that Vaelin grew up to be because I journeyed through those years with him when he built bonds with his brothers in the Order and learned that the reasons he was brought to them might not be everything he thought they were.
I really liked the hint of magic in the land and the promise of finding out more in later books.Finally, I loved the relationships that Vaelin had with those around him.
I've been reviewing arcs and judging for The Self Published Fantasy Blog Off recently which has taken up most of my time, so it was nice to just be able to choose a book that I owned that I just really wanted to read.
This book had everything that I look for in a fantasy story.
It includes an intriguing and powerful lead character who we follow from youth for at least a decade.
The world is well-crafted and unique with a good amount of history.
Everyone seems crafted finely and fleshed out.
It's one of the finest fantasy debuts I've ever read.
What an author puts forth in initially is usually a promise to the reader of what’s to come and readers expect at least a bit of consistency of storytelling (which Ryan failed to deliver because his tale took off in a completely different direction).His story also went from a single point of view to multiple, bouncing around in a very Game of Thrones manner.
Finally!
A book that lives up to the hype.
Blood Song is the best debut epic fantasy I've read since The Name of the Wind was published in 2007.
It had everything one could want in a book.
Action, mystery, romance, intrigue, and plenty of surprises.
The world building was good, the plot complex, and the various characters were full of depth and personality.
This was a thoroughly exciting and enjoyable read.
Anthony Ryan might just be making a case to join my quartet of all time fantasy favorites.
Re-read 1/7/15 - Almost as good the second time around!
In this regard Terence makes an interesting point how this format sucks the mystery and curiosity out of things when we know that somewhere in the future the main character is fine and doing well enough they can recount their massive tale in some fashion (right, Kvothe?).I could raise some points about the writing (or editing, especially when it comes to interpunction – this made my blood boil a couple of times) but overall the setting, characterisation of the protagonists and the dialogues are done superbly.
First those who find that more often than not they agree with my taste in books, second those who find that, "more often than not" they "disagree" with my taste in books.Now, for everybody else who'd like me to say a little about the book, here we go."Usually" a sure way to cause me to steer clear of a book is to call it a, "coming of age story".
I took my time and savored this book and it's story.I repeat, I don't think I can recommend this one too highly.By the way, yes the book revolves a great deal around the "fantasy religions" of this world.
First re-read finished.
Rating stays the same.
Buddy re-read/read with a bunch of lovely friends at Sanctum of Fantasy group before book #3 comes out in the beginning of July.
Original Review, 31 August, 2014I'm surprised this is a debut novel.
Oh yes, the book has its flaws but I can't quite put my finger on them and they are certainly not enough to even make me knock off a half star down to 4.5 for the rating.
What makes the book unputdownable is the scale and the intensity of the story.
Up to book #2.
Full review to come eventually.
*** 4.25 ***A Buddy read with the Fantasy Buddy Reads Group, where Fantasy Rules!!!  "... “Knowledge is what shapes us, little brothers,” he told them, for once his smile was absent, his tone entirely serious. “It makes us who we are. What we know informs everything we do and every decision we make.” ..." The young man who was Vaelin Al Sorna, entered the Sixth Order when he was eleven years old and by the time he was in his early twenties he was known by many names, Darkblade, The Young Hawk, t
He ask questions and Vaelin tells him the story the way he wants, but we get to know the true action as it really developed from Vaelin's memories...
Sometimes that man tries to cast his thoughts across the ocean, to see if the love they shared has turned to hate, but he finds only distant echoes of her fierce compassion, a life saved here, a kindness done there, like smoke trailing after a blazing torch.
This is a story of growth, betrayal, Faith, disillusionment, love, and even more so, understanding of what life is and how cheep or dear it could be...
Shame on me again and stuff.Anyway, I just did some research, and it seems the narrator took extra credits while he was studying at UBULC™: one was a How to Give All the Characters in the Story the Exact Same Dull Voice Consequently Confusing the Fish Out of the Poor Listener While Simultaneously Ensuring Your Narration is the Most Soporific Ever Yay Class (HtGAtCinStESDVCCtFOofPLWSEYNisMSEYC™).
And let me tell you, you realize just how much work the narrator put into earning those deadly extra credits when you listen to this book here.
This book, Vaelin arrives at the religious order where he begins his warrior/martial training by Chapter One. Kvothe arrives at the university to learn magic after a loooong looong time.5.
This book, Vaelin becomes the best swordsman in the order.
The other difference is that The Name of the Wind is to my mind superior storytelling as compared to Blood Song which I feel is a better story.
The Name of the Wind has superior immersion, as compared to Blood Song which has an actual plot and a perfectly paced one for my liking.So which of the two books do I prefer?

FTW.The main character of this book is Vaelin Al Sorna who at the beginning of the story we see as a captive on his way to a duel which will likely end in his death.
Janus' motivations, which he revealed to Vaelin to try and persuade him to take part in the war, added a further layer of political and moral complexity that made the situation even more compelling.(view spoiler)[ I'm really stingy with my 5 star rating but this book would definitely have gotten one...
And the person who keeps that heart beating is Vaelin, their leader and brother and the best of their friends.
I don’t know that I’ve ever come across another central character in a fantasy novel with more empathy and loyalty and selflessness than Vaelin.
I was blown away by his character development.What reminded me so much of A Song of Ice and Fire in this novel was the magic system.
If you’re a fan of coming-of-age stories, training schools, and incredible character development, I think you’ll enjoy this book.
I had heard a lot of good things about this series but I felt that I went into it thinking it was going to be a three star at best I believe because it has been compared to Name of the Wind, a book that I enjoyed that was subsequently ruined by its sequel The Wise Man's Fear.Blood Song is told in a similar manner.
The events start with Vaelin's placement in the Sixth Order by his father, where he learns to become a warrior for the Faith.Name of the Wind is also told from the point of view of the main character to other characters, and begins with his schooling life.
Almost everyone has high praise for this book, it's often cited as a favourite. It is also often compared to In the Name of the Wind, which I didn't like.I didn't particularly take to Blood Song although it seemed well written. I actually found it a bit slow and boring.
The whole book is 624 pages long but honestly it felt like 1000.
I've read way longer books than this (The Stand, 1400+ pages) and that book felt just as long as this.
Blame the format, not the plot.What really stands out for me is the fact that this is a coming-of-age/Fantasy novel.
I'm that interested and invested in the series.The plot is quite similar to some Fantasy novels I've read, or at least the backbone of the plot is.
Overall though, the plot is really good and more people should read this novel.
This book really messed with my emotions. I will admit I tossed and turned all night after finishing this book, I have never felt so anxious after finishing a book. It all felt so real. And that ending, goodness gracious, am literally holding myself back so as to not start the second book immediately. ”Raven’s shadow sweeps across my heart,Freezes the torrent of my tears.” I foundrally been reading this book since last year, to say am disappointed in myself woukd be an understatement but am glad
I foundrally been reading this book since last year, to say am disappointed in myself woukd be an understatement but am glad I was able to combat my slump to complete this book.The story was told all from Vaelin’s perspective but I got to see the different personalities of all the other characters.
This book focuses in religion the most, people can be seen literally killing other people that do not believe in their faith or beliefs.
I like being able to have a change whilst reading, but I have to say, once I was into Blood Song, that was it.
There never seems a good time to stop the story and come back to it.
I find that unusual in almost all of the books I read.What makes this story unusual is that the characters are ok, there is some development, but there is no Logan Ninefingers or Iskareal Pust or even a brother Jorge character depth.
It is the sheer pace of the story that makes me give this 5 stars.
I'm not sure if it's him or simply the quality of the production, but it seems like it's just the way he reads.I listen to audiobooks on my phone.
I find audiobooks to be too quiet in general, but this was a real struggle in places.To me he's more of the type of person I'd love to listen to tell me a story around a campfire than over an audiobook.
The magic is sort of not that prevalent for most of the book, nor all that well explained, but I enjoyed how Mr. Ryan incorporated it into the story.The other thing I really enjoyed is all the politics and religion.
