https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119760.The_Seat_of_the_Soul
Zukav makes many grandiose metaphysical claims but doesn't feel the need to once offer an argument as to how he has come about this knowledge he has about; for instance, Angels, Teachers, how dolphin souls become human souls, or why souls need to heal even though they have no beginning and no end (yet some souls are older than others).
"My gosh," I thought "what did the good Lord do to these poor, incredibly powerful souls outside of time that they'd need to come down to earth and inhabit a physical body/personality and heal?" Some of his practical advice is alright, but there is especially nothing new about those parts: one should release his or her anger, one should forgive, etc, etc.

One aspect of becoming whole is letting go of the mental baggage that keeps you chained to old bad habits, to fears and doubts that keep you from growing and realizing your own great potential.I found this book to be very thought provoking.
This is one book that has masterfully combined psychology and "spiritual" psychology ("how our behaviors and activities affect the soul").
Either way you are learning a lesson, a lesson that will help you grow mentally and spiritually.
But you can choose to learn the lesson either through wisdom or through fear and doubt.
I felt quite manipulated and just wanted him to stop including me in his royal "we".
He got off on the wrong foot with me on the first chapter "Evolution".
Everything he says about scientific evolution is wrong.
His point is that "our" beliefs about evolution are wrong.
Well, *his* beliefs about evolution certainly are wrong.
I'm just glad they aren't *my* beliefs.
Disproving a argument that no one is making is called a "straw man" fallacy.I tried to keep reading but I just couldn't get past chapter five.
I tried several bites before I could no longer stomach his self-important manipulative horse crap.
I found The Dancing Wu Li Masters interesting when I read it way back when, so I picked this book up expecting to find Gary Zukav moving, like Fritjof Capra from Physics (The Tao of Physics) to a wider ecological and psychological world view exploration (The Turning Point).
As expected, Zukav starts by talking about biological evolution, but, unexpectedly, he completely misunderstands it, to the point that what he does is resurrect the idea of the chain of being, an idea which was old and hoary even by Elizabethan times (see E.
Tillyard´s marvellous chapter in The Elizabethan World Picture) and which has nothing to do with evolution as expounded by Darwin.
What I like best about this book is that I can envision just about any person reading it, from any walk of life, from any religion, faith or indifference, in any given situation and finding something of value.
This book was not just a great read; it was an answer to a prayer, a turning point and a challenge to ferry on.
I feel that everyone who is meant to read it will find her/his way to this book on her/his own, when the time is right.
More importantly, it helps you to consider why you are here, why you wished to be here now, and what your mission could be.While it's gotten a bad wrap as one of the myriad 'navel gazing' books that have cropped up, it's so not that at all.If you've ever wondered about the energy that makes you, uniquely you, and if you are more than you are lead to believe based on your five senses, this book will delight you, occasionally make you angry, but mostly it will give you confirmation that you are truly remarkable and worthy.
To review the titles of the chapters-there is Evolution, Karma, Reverence, Heart, Intuition, Light, Intention, Choice, Addiction, Relationships, Souls, Psychology, Illusion, Power, and Trust.
I found Reverence and Intention to be the most enlightening.
Most self-help/self-awareness books do not approach the subject of respect, honor, and reverence within the karmic framework of actions and reactions.
I think a great deal of this book could be supported with biblical scripture and I would love for a strong Christian author to write a supporting text for this book.
If anyone knows of a scripture study based on this book out there, let me know!
Therefore reading it from this perspective it is a really well written book that deals with concepts that don't fit into the English language so well.He gave a really good explanation of how humanity is evolving and goes in depth into what is going on in the world at present.
We can no longer rely on external power and hording and greed, and it is time to develop our own inner authentic power so that we can heal ourselves and our world.It has made me see parts of myself much more clearly and honestly.
I remembered having read this book when rereading Alan Watts'  The Wisdom of Insecurity , not that the two are comparable. Watts is carefully reasoning his way through the most profound questions of life, and Zukav simply makes bold claims without any indication of how he arrived at them. I got about two-thirds of the way through The Seat of the Soul before the accumulating weight of these claims (e.g., animals can be reincarnated as humans, but only in primitive settings where the transition is
I remembered having read this book when rereading Alan Watts' 
  The Wisdom of Insecurity
, not that the two are comparable. Watts is carefully reasoning his way through the most profound questions of life, and Zukav simply makes bold claims without any indication of how he arrived at them. I got about two-thirds of the way through The Seat of the Soul before the accumulating weight of these claims (e.g., animals can be reincarnated as humans, but only in primitive settings where the transition isn't too big a shock for them) brought me to a stop.
You may find that also.On the whole, I found more truth in my own experiences than disconnection in reading the book.
Also, it was a peaceful experience, which is always a good sign for me when I read a book.If you are interested in having another perspective on the meaning of existence than the one that your religion, your spiritual advisor, or your family may have taught you or helped you understand, you will probably like this book.
That could be a helpful experience for you.You should decide if you want to read this book or not.
I thought I might get into something deep in the way of the relation of matter to energy and information.
This guy has gone off the deep end (as a sufi friend of mine so generously put it).
The book, which I suppose is meant to be be "spiritual" is, to me, anything but.
It is that same old anthropocentric world view now wrapped up in New Age* clothes.
Like, animals do not have souls.
_________________*I should have judged this book by its cover.
The choice of colors is a dead give-away (as to its being New Age).
Funny, I usually do judge a book by its cover.
I even read some chapters over and over, again, before moving on to the next.
Reading this book not only enlightened me, but gave me clarity to things that I could not quite understand.
This book gave me a more in-depth understanding to the Word.
During my reading I laughed, cried and rejoiced.
I now have a more precise understanding to the Word.
If you understand the principles and laws of the bible, you'll understand the concept of this book.
Thank you for helping understand that I already have the authentic power I've been looking for; and thank you so much for such an awesome keepsake.
I believe in soul and much of what the author discusses, yet I just couldn't buy into much of what he says.
Here was the final straw: "All of the energy of the soul does not incarnate.
To incarnate, the soul creates a personality from those parts of itself that it wants to heal in the physical environment, and from those parts of itself that it lends to the process of healing in that lifetime.
Gary Zukov's easy to understand book goes right to the essence of who we are under the surface of our exterior selves.
In simple terms, he explores the nonphysical aspects of our beings and shows how we can perceive existence using more than just our usual bodily sense mechanisms.Our soul is there to be understood and explored, Zukov maintains.
The more we recognize it and how it functions, he says, the better able we will be to make effective course corrections in our lives.
Reach for your soul."To help readers effectively align themselves with their souls, the author uses simplicity of expression to drive his point home.
I read this book with a group of friends and it was chosen by another member of the group as we wanted to gain a better sense of the nature of our souls in a common faith journey.
Many of the concepts offered by Zukav are Eastern in tradition and the spiritual impact of positive and negative karma are explored intelligently.
So if you want to explore the nature of your soul -- which does strike me as a worthwhile venture -- then this book can walk you through the nether regions of the soul and take you on a guided tour that helps you better understand yourself.
I read this book years ago after Oprah had the author on her show.
This book is a complete load of horse puckies.
I remember reading in disbelief the complete doo-doo that Gary Zukav had to say about dolphins beaching themselves (like he personally knows what dolphins are thinking).
Here it is:"The dolphin soul is leaving the Earth, that is, the dolphin species is becoming extinct.
I think Gary Zukav may be off his rocker.
I threw it in the trash can when I was done because I didn't want anyone else to waste their life reading this book.
My friend and I were reading it together and finding a lot of things that we didn't like and didn't agree with.
That being said, there were things we *did* like, but we were already far along enough on our own spiritual journeys that we knew them already.
This book felt like a person who had come to some interesting conclusions at the beginning of his own spiritual journey, felt he had the answers so he thought he'd write a book (but still had some maturing to do).
So perhaps if you're at the beginning of your own spiritual journey, this *would* be a good book for you.
I don't know how Gary Zukav does it, but this book speaks to me like very few books ever have. I just read this book for the third time and I am reminded why so many people love this author so much. Every time I read it I find new meanings, new inspiration and new ways of looking at myself and my circumstances that help me grow as a person and be happier. I also highly recommend "Open Your Mind, Open Your Life" by Taro Gold which makes a great companion book to all of Zukav's writing. Excellent!
After reading The Untethered Soul, which I ABSOLUTELY ADORED!, I wanted another book that talked about 'the seat of the soul' and well, this book has the NAME on the cover so it was a no-brainer.
It's a great book, and spirituality is a beautiful topic.
Allow yourself to become aware of what you feel.Give yourself permission to choose the most positive behavior in each moment.As you discharge negative energy consciously and set your intention on what your heart tells you, as you challenge and release your fears, and choose to heal, you align your personality with your soul and choose to be a being of the light and empowered and inwardly secure.
There is no doubt that we all want to experience the seat of the soul.
I usually really enjoy books by authors featured on Super Soul Sunday.
Here we go again with an author that features humans as the top soul host.
I wasn't looking for science law, but at least a theory as to how the conclusions were reached.
Any reasoning as to how his theories are supported would have been nice.
Again, I'm not asking for scientific fact (as in the law of gravity) just a simple reason as to how he reached is viewpoint.
I need some kind of supportive statement to back up thoughts, and this book didn't have any....
I got the audiobook and it sounded familiar.
In the 1980's I read a lot of New Age stuff, and I figured I had it all memorized.
Then in the second-to-the-last disc he said something about dolphins, and I knew I had definitely read this book before.
Part of my mental processes wondered that if Karl Marx was right and "Religion was the opiate of the masses," was the New Age stuff the opiate of the 1980's masses?
But, something on that same second-to-the-last disc hit home to me.
Oprah has earned another set of wings.
Maybe if the author's writing style was different I could have finished it, but I couldn't make it through a whole page without my mind starting to wander to other things.
On top of that, the author doesn't give any rhyme or reason why he thinks these things.
I am a very open minded person when it comes to this topic so it isn't that I think the guy is a quack, or what he is teaching is quackery, I just couldn't really get anything new or meaningful from the book.
So I suggest that book instead.
Untuk membaca buku yang tidak terlalu tebal (dibawah 200 halaman) ini bukan persoalan yang mudah.Kenapa?Butuh waktu untuk sungguh-sungguh memahami maknanya, apalagi karena buku ini tentang hakikat kehidupan maka sembari membaca saya memahaminya dengan mengkaitkannya dengan perjalanan hidup saya sendiriDan hasilnya?AMAZING!MencerahkanBahkan pertanyaan-pertanyaan saya tentang reinkarnasi, keterikatan dengan kesan panca indera, love vs fear,relationship dll terjawab di buku ini Sangat menarikWajib dibaca oleh yang tertarik pada warna warni dunia spiritualitas
I found this book to be really mind opening. I agree with some of the other reviews in that the author does come across as relaying hard evidence... but without the evidence. However, I feel that his approach is effective for the purpose. He does a fantastic job at allowing the reader to look at life from a much deeper perspective than we are normally used to. The information and theories presented have really resonated with me. I truly enjoyed this book and will definitely read it again.
I quote from the book says it all, "Without an awareness of your emotions you are not able to experience reverence. Reverence is not an emotion. It is a way of being, but the path to reverence is through your heart, and only an awareness of your feelings can open your heart," Gary Zukav.
It's been a while but this was the book that made me promise never let Oprah trick me into another book. There was a definite disconnect between what was said on the couch and what this book was about. I could not relate to this.
STUPID!!! I get mad when I think about it. Oprah did wrong by us when she recommended this book.
I knew I would not like this book, but was talked into reading it by a few friends.
I indeed did not like this book.
I just don't buy his claims.
I think he's right about being mindful of our intentions, but like what?
Dolphins have a collective soul?
I mean, I do love Oprah and Maya Angelou and maybe they see more than I do or something, but I don't think my soul is quite ready to evolve into its seat.
I do love Echart Tolle though.
Maybe it's because he doesn't try to make scientific claims?
