https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/147876.The_Horizontal_Man
(Pokers can come in so handy.) This happens on the very first page but the reader has no idea whodunnit.The book moves along from various POVs: the dead man's neighbor across the hall; a fellow teacher and writer; a student infatuated with the dead man; a female teacher who's dried up at age 42 but willing to flirt with - or sleep with - anyone who's handy.
(Please note: overuse of word 'handy.') There's also a 'chubby' female student who gets involved with a wise-guy reporter.
The girl who adores the dead guy admits to killing him and is promptly rushed to a psychiatric hospital.
Helen Eustis' novel, "The Horizontal Man" (1946) is the second book in the collection and the LOA has released it separately as an e-book.
Other characters in the novel include the college president who is anxious to avoid unfavorable publicity for the school, a reporter clumsily investigating the murder, and a psychiatrist Dr. Forstmann.The book's wry observations about love, college life, and literature are at least as important as the solving of the murder.
The LOA and Sarah Wineman deserve kudos for preserving the work of women crime writers, including Helen Eustis, as part of America's literature.Robin Friedman
Unfortunately, I found this both dated and uninspired.Eustis attended Smith College, on which this book is loosely based.
But aside from that, "Horizontal Man" had little to recommend itself, and was actually a faintly annoying read.The fun in mysteries is both in the plot and the characters.
I also cannot point to an interesting and believable character.
They are all stereotypes of one kind or another, though they may well have been based on Eustis's actual college professors.
Interesting perhaps as a historical artifact, but not satisfying as a mystery, I'm afraid.
Helen Eustis.
This was the first of innumerable red herrings that were sprinkled throughout this novel.
The author cleverly leads us on a merry chase through a large number of potential killers, set in a girls’ school in New England.
The point of difference in this novel (Edgar Award for Best First Novel in 1947) is that Ms. Eustis draws on new motives for killing drawn on then new information drawn from the world of psychology and psychiatric research.
The story becomes a bit frenetic towards the end, but it was a new approach to the structure of a crime novel.
Reading this in a collection of 40's crime novels. This one was fun--some good dialogue and a true whodunit--but a bit dated, doesn't hold up as well as "Laura" did, in my opinion. This doesn't always bother me, but here the attitudes towards women (which I'm sure are true to the period) are at times a bit hard to take and just as obnoxious as they'd be if a man had written this book. Spoiler Alert: Couldn't help thinking of "Psycho" and wondering if Robert Bloch was influenced by "The Horizontal Man."
Enjoyable in parts but from that era when the culprit's motive stems from their being non-cisheteronormative.
Murder, madness and psychosexual drama at a women's college in the forties - if that's not the perfect rainy day read, I don't know what is.
There's the plucky college student who goes sleuthing, the cocky reporter who falls for her (and she for him, despite his constant "fatty" and "chubby" remarks), eccentric professors, a hysterical librarian, a majestic divorcee with a healthy sex drive, lovelorn girls with mental problems and a town doctor who has a hard time keeping up with the neuroses.
It's clumsy and messy, but if you can get past that (and the hopelessly dated gender stereotypes) it's a very fun read.
This 1940s suspense novel is set at a women’s college where a popular professor and poet has been murdered. The obvious suspect is a young, hysterical student with a severe crush on the deceased, but a young reporter and another student search for the real culprit. The varied characters, quick pace, academic setting, and humorous asides made this an enjoyable read, although I did get a little tired of the ramblings of the hysterical student
Kevin Boyle, a young English professor, is murdered on the second page of the novel by a poker-wielding assailant.
Eustis may be evoking memories of her own alma mater, Smith College: “The brick faces of the neo-Gothic buildings shown bleakly in the night.” Student Kate Innes and Jack Donnelly, a reporter form the local newspaper, set out to investigate the crime.
Kate and Jack do the requisite sleuthing, even to the point of crashing an English Department party by hiding out in the host’s unheated sun room during a cold winter night.
This was an interesting read, and the author used some unusual devices, like stream of consciousness points of view mixed with more limited third-person narration.
There was a lot subtle humor deftly done, like the college president's secretary sparing no opportunity to bolster his fragile ego.
And one of the stream of consciousness chapters has a passage where the character in question imagines himself stalked by Death, only to have Death say hello--it was just a friendly campus policeman making the rounds.But then the humor goes by the wayside--except for the chapters focused on the young reporter and his coed fellow sleuth and love interest.
Interesting take on murder and psychology on a college campus in the 1940s. Dealing with the murder of a professor at an all girls’ school, The Horizontal Man creates a rich stew of characters, and bounces pov between them all, creating pyschological portraits of numerous acacdemic types. The mystery is compelling and there are clues and red herrings galore, but the final revelation is not unexpected, having been hidden in plain sight. Few writers could get away with this solution today, but the time, when interest in Freud and psychoanalysis was at a peak, it must have been revelatory.
Nominally a murder mystery, The Horizontal Man is more significantly a hilarious skewering of a scandalized midcentury women's college, salted with some sensitive, if a bit tidily Freudian, psychology.
It's erudite, insightful, and tremendous fun.A rakish, handsome young English professor is murdered, and the entire campus of Hollymount College is shaken.
But it hardly matters, as the mystery isn't the point - the characters and the psychological subtleties of their relationships are.
This review gives a feminist interpretation of all the richness going on in this novel better than I could, highlighting the book's most delightful and brassy character, the dilettante lecturer Freda Cramm.
Eustis' novel won the Edgar Award for the best first crime novel but has received little subsequent attention.
It would have made a great noir film in the vein of Gaslight.I read it as one of the novels bundled in the Women Crime Writers: Four Suspense Novels of the 1940s, edited by Sarah Weinman.
She wrote several novels and stories in addition to "The Horizontal Man", including a Civil War novel, "The Fool Killer" which in 1965 was made into a film starring Anthony Perkins.
In her latter years, Eustis translated several important books from French including "When I was Old" by Georges Simeon.
A young literature professor (Boyle) at an all-girls college is fatally whacked over the head with a fireplace poker in his apartment in the first pages of the book.
The rest is a whodunnit as we consider the suspects: a freshman (Molly) who had a sickening crush on Boyle, a sexy older divorcee who teaches lit.
at the college, the socially awkward neighbor (Leonard), etc.
This book was written in the 1940s, and so it has that charming old-fashioned depiction of social relations and manners and clothes.
There is a nice romance between a cocky newsman and a senior girl (Kate) at the college who are trying to solve the mystery.

Read for 2018 Popsugar Reading Challenge prompt "A book about mental health".This story was written in the 1940s, and the time's biases against weight and mental health problems is on full display.I am reading the Library of America two-volume set "Women Crime Writers," where this novel is included.
Strong murder novel set at an all-women college. Nice use of multiple POV and some really fun, witty dialogue. The solution is much easier to spot now than it probably was in the 1940s, but the other pleasures make up for it.Part of the Library of America’s Women Crime Writers collection.
An excellent read! A wonderful first half that peters out a little toward the end. There isn't enough sarcasm in the second half.I found some of thew characters, esp. Kate really easy to relate to.
Essentially a murder mystery. But containing beautiful, non-clinical descriptions of the roots and experience of mental illness.
Enjoyable who dunnit from the 1940s.
It's rare that I don't finish a book, but this is one of the worst novels I've picked up in a long time. Of historical interest only.
Can Dr. Forstmann gain her trust and coax the story out of her?A young reporter, Jack Kennedy, is trying to establish himself and his career and thinks this story about the amorous professor and the crazed co-ed might be how he makes his mark.Kate Innes, the editor of the student paper sets out against Kennedy, trying to preserve the public image of her school, but eventually circumstances bring the two together to try to discover the truth in all the twisted relationships that revolves around the campus f the all girls college set in small New England town.This story was told from varying perspectives, in 3rd person, but you still catch glimpses into each character's thought processes and the emotions that are driving them in their quests.
For me, the middle of the book -- when the business of moving forward the plot takes over -- is its real weak point.
It's a story that moves at its own pace, sometimes slowly but not slowly enough to make me skip through paragraphs.
For example, one of her versions of what depression feels like:"All day, in spite of her grieving and moaning, a terrible dreary sanity, like the dreary light of the November day, had held her in its grip; now, gratefully, she felt a gentle madness descending with the dusk."A good read and I'm looking forward to the others in the set.
Review also available at: https://devinhurd.herokuapp.com/singl...There is a taut thriller lurking underneath the labored stories of coeds and hapless college presidents of Hollymount College circa 1940-something.
The drama unfolds with an almost Hitchockian pacing and one could almost hear the Bernard Hermann soundtrack unfolding at each page turn.
But like early Hitchcock, so much of the interactions between the sexes ring false.
Or at least dated.And then there is the Freudian plot twist telegraphed from several miles away.There is a great deal that works as a thriller even if so many of the details have grown grey.
This has become more curiosity than escapist plot.
Dated and full of sterotypical characters this Edgar winning mystery (1947) is still a compelling psychological murder mystery. From  The Burburyist Blog: "Although its once ground-breaking twist ending may not surprise modern readers, this roman à clef about Smith College by a friend of Carson McCullers is still a terrific read."
This second installment in the Library of America's series on women crime writers is another winner. The big giveaway at the end -- who killed Kevin Boyle? -- is kind of a fizzle, but that doesn't detract from what is otherwise a perceptive, wry, truly clever story. Though dated in some of its observations, with minor tweaks this could have been written yesterday and it would feel perfectly in step with a modern whodunit.
I've never read any other mysteries written during this time period (1945), but I have seen lots of movies made in the late 30's and early 40's. She seems to borrow several tropes, (such as the plucky newspaper reporter/detective) and a lot of popular Freudian psychology. I suspect it won an Edgar Award because it shows the inner workings of several characters who are very flawed (and thus, murderer suspects).
This is a decent noir story, and of course it's very dated; that's some of the interest in reading it. Male/female stereotypes abound, as do now-laughable sorta-Freudian-indebted plot twists. It's interesting to read a book by a woman that is so misogynic in its depiction of female characters--though the men are also pretty one-dimensional.
Winner of the Edgar for best first in 1947. At a small women’s college in Connecticut a young professor of English that most of the girls had a crush on is murdered and a young freshman goes completely to pieces. Dated, but in a good way, as it was a look at college life that was completely different than my experience.
All the details from napkin cubbies and other forms of meanness bring back altogether too much weird claustrophobia of Smith College before it became a haven for sexual weirdness. But this is not a noir!
