https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9013.The_Long_Walk
I googled the author's name and the book title and after reading dozens of articles and opinions, I'm still not sure, though I lean towards thinking that the narrative is actually a composite of a number of experiences including Rawicz's.As was said in an account on the web entitled "#18 Anderson's Long Walk Expedition", in which a group of people retraced Rawicz's journey, although on camels not on foot: Attempting to find truth in every written word of the Long Walk dooms the book to skepticism.
Wow
It claimed to be a memoir of a man, who with seven others, had escaped from a Siberian prison work camp in 1942 and managed to walk all the way to British India.
It was an incredible story of endurance that required walking across the Gobi Desert and over the Himalayan Mountains.Research of Soviet records since the cold war has revealed that while it is true that the author had been a prisoner in Siberia in the early 1940s, he did not escape in the manner described in this book.
I read it in 2 nights.
What I do know, from having lived in Russia for a number of years and having toured an obscure KGB "prison" in Lithuania 3 times, that the author's description of his torture in Minsk and in Moscow were especially haunting.
Some of the rooms in that prison possess possibilities for torture that normal humans can barely comprehend.
As for his escape, I also know many Mongols, and they are as kind as he describes.All in all, an excellent read, fiction or fact.
There were too many implausible incidents, starting from his insistence that he was completely innocent of spying or any other any crime against the Soviets (they claim he killed an NKVD officer), his extraordinary long interrogations, the long march from Irkutsk to the camp chained behind a wood-burning truck, his ability to interview and then reject candidates for the escape without anyone ratting him out, the help he got from the commandant's wife, and his naive view of the natural world.
Anybody who can tell a story that makes them look like fools has got to be believed!See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fake_mem...
Also see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slavomir...
Tragic and difficult but also hypnotic. The reader may question the complete veracity of the account and and may be somewhat disappointed to learn of the amount of criticism and doubt surrounding his story. Essentially, a group of political prisoners in a Soviet prison in Siberia literally walk out of captivity. The idea is that an escaped prisoner will die in the bitter cold and unforgiving wilderness of eastern Asia. The group walks across Siberia and into the Gobi desert and then to the Himalayas. Di they really see a Yeti?A very interesting book.
I'm not going to get all wrapped up in whether or not this account is true as the book claims. It's a remarkable story regardless, much like the book I just read, Das Boot: The Boat, was a remarkable story and may have some kernels of truth from the author's real life. The story itself is good and empowering, and that's all that really matters to me.That's a lot of walking, even for fictional characters.
I read this after watching the movie The Way Back and as is usually the case the book is much better, vastly different yet obviously maintaining the gist of the year long trek across an entire continent to freedom.
It has lost nothing with time however and remains one of the most incredible journeys of strength, endurance and human spirit you’ll ever read.Its 1941 and “Slav” has just spent two years in a Soviet prison.
Transferred during the dead of winter Slav somehow survives the 3000 mile cattle car train ride and subsequent chain gang death march into inner Siberia and camp 303 in Yakutsk After enduring starvation, cold, illness and brutality he and six other prisoners escape.
He claims to have been a Polish officer grabbed by the Russians in 1939, imprisoned and marched to "camp 303" in Siberia.
The book had the taint of improbability all along,especially the part about observing a Yeti couple!
Subsequent investigation shows the book is a fraud.
He claims to have convalesced in a British military hospital in India for a month, but there is no such record.
He claims to have trained with the Polish contingent of the RAF, but there is no record of that.
Russian records show no camp 303; they show Rawicz was a prisoner of war, but was pardoned in 1942 and sent to a refugee camp in Iran.
InCREDible adventure story. Unbelievable what people are physically able to endure and survive. Just riveting.This man, and others, walked, after escaping, from a work camp in Siberia, through Mongolia (desert), oh, and then OVER the Himalayas. Walked. Several of them died.
Amazing true account of courage and determination. 4.5 stars.This group of men escaped from a Siberian prison camp in 1941 and spent a year making their way to safety in India. They crossed very harsh terrain including the Gobi Desert and the Himalayas. Sadly, not all of them survived the journey. Most interesting were the locals they met along the way, especially the Mongolians and Tibetans. Very well edited and not too long. Reads like a novel.
And it’s the journey to and the escape from one of these Siberian gulags to India (by way of the Gobi Desert, Tibet, and the Himalayas) that is the subject of this book.
A few years ago, it came out that it was impossible for this to have been the true story of the author since he was released from the gulag in 1942 to a refugee camp in Iran rather than escaping to India in 1941.
I watched the movie version of this book (“The Way Back”) first, and it left out the horrifying fact that a large part of the journey of Russia’s political prisoners to Siberia was done on foot.
Russia invaded Poland in 1939 and took hundreds of thousands of Polish soldiers prisoner...One man, the author of this book, not only survived torture in Russian hands, and an inhumane train ride and walk to a Siberian labor camp...
Took them over a year, and some died along the way, but 4 made it all the way.We've all heard of incredible survival stories, but you have never read a story like this.
The amazing strokes of luck that saved their lives, like the generosity of the peoples they came across in Mongolia and Tibet, people who fed them along the way.
Una increíble novela de aventura y superación que tiene el aliciente extra de estar basada en hechos reales, lo que te permite conocer parte de la negra historia de los campos de concentración rusos. Muy bien escrita y con un ritmo que te lleva de página en página hasta el final.
This book has had a huge influence in my life.
It is the book that I read when I need to be reminded of how much the human heart and body can endure.
It is the story I think of when I feel that my life is out of my control.
When I need to be reminded that my life is not that bad that I really don't have it as tough as I think I do.
What Rawicz endures opens my heart to human suffering outside of my own and I am so greatful to him for sharing his story.
Once I started thinking this way my feelings toward the book were wrecked.
Seven men escape from a gulag in Siberia just south of Yakutsk.
The seven men manage to get themselves all placed in the same building, a building located near their escape route.
On the other hand, if this book is true I feel like a total creep.
Is the book true?
Oh yes, at one point the author is punched in the face and all his teeth on that side fall out.
Knowing this, I do feel a bit uncomfortable criticizing the book.
This book was a real disappointment, so stupid a lie that it is almost as hard to believe that so many people fall for it--oh well, the Bible comes to mind.
I began to read it, and inch by inch I started to feel the lie.
Ivan Denisovich is a made-up story (based on the author's actual experience, but fictionalized) and it feels true at every turn, but Long Walk never feels true.
I am an author of a book they published, not a very good club to be in from my experience.
Un liek vaicāt, kas bija noteicošais faktā, ka viņiem izdevās - gribasspēks vai tas, ka viņi turējās kopā un, neskatoties uz to, ka pēc visiem cilvēciskajiem kritērijiem jau sen bija kļuvuši par mežoņiem, attiecībās viens ar otru saglabāja īstu cilvēcību līdz pašam galam?
Vai varbūt tas ir vēl viens stāsts par ticības spēku?Gluži kā pats patiesais stāsts, šī grāmata ir unikāla iespēja iepazīt padomju varas pratināšanu un spīdzināšanas metodes, ceļu uz Sibīriju lopu vagonos, dzīvi barakās un darbu Sibīrijas brīvdabas cietumā, taigu, Baikālu un pārējo Krievijas austrumdaļas dabu, Mongolijas karavānu ceļotājus, Gobi tuksneša čūskas, Tibetas (toreiz vēl brīvās) aitu ganus un Himalaju atkailināto nepieradināmību.
He is transported by train from Moscow to Irkutsk, then is on a forced march in chains with hundreds of other prisoners to Camp 303 in Northern Siberia.
They successfully escape the camp and so begins the long walk south from northern Siberia to India.
This is a very well-written book but so fantastic that I felt like I was reading Life of Pi, or maybe the Bible (ram with horns stuck in the thicket, the long exodus out of slavery, and (for the Christians) the virgin.
I didn't see how the story could possibly be true, but on the other hand, maybe it was.
This book says it's the "true story of a trek to freedom" and I began reading it as such.
It takes the reader on a harrowing journey beginning with Soviet imprisonment where the Polish author is eventually sentenced to 25 years in a Siberian labor camp.
Once at the camp, the author begins making plans and choosing associates to break out.
and so begins "the long walk".
It's even questionable whether this is the author's own story...
However, I've learned that many Polish prisoners- including entire families- did endure extremely "long walks" to freedom although obviously not to the extent this author presents.
How is it possible for humankind to be so diverse and affected by governments that you would find it in yourself to treat people the way prisoners are treated at times?
How can you be so convinced of the "common good" that you allow yourself to degrade another living creature to the point of standing in their own excrement for hours and days on end?
But then to have that same persecuted individual want to live so badly, that he walks over 4000 miles to safety and health?
Along the way he sees the other side of humanity, the beauty of selfless giving and hospitality.
Escaping in late winter with six companions of varied nationalities, they deal with cold and hunger (they took food but had a meager diet before leaving and had little to hunt with).
By autumn, the little band reaches the higher elevations (and cold weather, again) of Tibet.It wasn’t until after I finished that I read of a controversy that Slavomir Radicz may have fabricated the story or stolen it from another person who claims to have actually made the journey.
This book was kind of sad, but I really liked it. It's about a man whose first life is stolen by the Communists. So he escapes from a camp in Siberia and walks thousands of miles to get a new life--a good one. I cried when they were going through the Gobi desert, was touched when Marchinkovas said that the kindness of the Tibetian people wiped away some of his bitter memories.
3/4/2011 Now for film time...Dragos Bucur ... Zoran Colin Farrell ... Valka Ed Harris ... Mr. Smith Alexandru Potocean ... TomaszTrailer hereFantastic film, authentic landscapes. Things left out:-The beginning of the book where the long journey to the gulag was explained.-Inside the gulag where a favoured existence helped accrue certain objects-That Yeti moment.NB I have softened to the yeti thing - after such a gruelling trip it is entirely possible that the brain plays tricks. Swirling snow ca
Things left out:-The beginning of the book where the long journey to the gulag was explained.-Inside the gulag where a favoured existence helped accrue certain objects-That Yeti moment.NB I have softened to the yeti thing - after such a gruelling trip it is entirely possible that the brain plays tricks.
Titled "The Way Back" it is based on a book which has puzzled the world for 50 years.
Four years ago, Tim Whewell investigated for a Radio 4 documentary and discovered evidence that decisively proved whether Rawicz really made his amazing journey.
Around The World = Siberia.I've just finished reading The Long Walk by Slavomir Rawicz, which, if true, is a simple unembellished telling of an amazing feat of endurance.
Rawicz, an officer of the Polish cavalry, is captured by the Soviet forces and imprisoned in a Siberian gulag.
With a band of other prisoners, Poles, Lithuanians, a Czech and an American, they escape the camp and travel south.
First through Siberia, on a route running parallel to Lake Baikal, before crossing the Trans-Siberian Railway and the Mongolian border.
Suppose to be TRUE. I don't know. Google'd the book but recently some critics are skeptical on how TRUE the story plays out. Seven inmates from a Soviet labor camp in Siberia escape and WALKED thousands of miles thru bitter cold and then later thru the Gobi Desert,Tibet then finally made it to India seems far, FAR fetched. Again it could be True. It is NOT written anywhere near Laura Hillenbrand"s book,UNBROKEN. It had some of the same elements - one trying event after another - but it still is a decent read. Just decent.
After Germany and Russia partitioned Poland just before World War II made them enemies, the Russians arrested Polish cavalry officer Slavomir Rawicz at his home. Tortured and imprisoned for months, Ramicz was then sent to a slave labor camp in Siberia with a twenty-five year sentence. A few months later and six others escape and set off on a foot trek across southern Russia, the Gobi Desert, and the Himalayan Mountains. I first read this book for the first time about 50 years ago.
It's the true story of Slavomir Rawicz' escape with six other men from a Russian prison camp in Siberia during World War II (although there is quite a bit of skepticism about it's validity).
33)." They had very little food, clothing and shelter...and no hope of seeing their families or any kind of normal life again, but it was amazing to see how they helped each other have hope and keep going each day.
54)." It was unheard of to think of trying to escape, but after just a few months in the camp Rawicz and a few others starting stashing away some food and making some extra clothes to plan for an escape.
before this they were making the long walk just to get their after his long bias trial were he really had no choise but to serve 25 years of hard labor (hide spoiler)] I think that this book really represents dehumanisation with the treatment of the main characters, and comradship with the prisoners going though the horrible experiance of just getting to the camp.
His story was so compelling that they made a movie called “The Way Back” which was based on his Russian escape with his comrades.Many other people liked the book as I do including: Los Angeles times, Chicago Tribune, and The New York Times.
It is cold then it is hot then it gets cold again and then....
you guessed it more hot.
Halfway through reading this I found out that there was a lot of talk about this not being a true story on the interweb, that the author was some charleton that may have never been in Siberia, that this man has created a fiction and possibly never escaped from anywhere.The nerve!Well now as I'm reading I am not thinking how brave he is I am thinking "LIAR!" due to the fact this is an amazing journey almost....
