https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/369077.Great_Lion_of_God
Before I get around to my review of Great Lion of God, I'd like to introduce Ms. Caldwell, and spend a few minutes discussing what became of her work.Who was Taylor Caldwell?Taylor Caldwell was an English-born American author born in 1900.
Influenced by the works of Tolstoy, Dickens, Balzac, and the Brontes, Caldwell's early novels were cutting edge in the time when Gone with the Wind was immensely popular.
Boo, Saul!What I liked about Great Lion of God is that it provided much historical context to this time.
I didn't particularly appreciate Saint Paul or his writings until I read this book (unabridged). I am not a fan of historical fiction using real persons, but this one is credible and scripturally accurate. I delighted in Taylor's gift of the description (not everyone's cup of tea).
Her best biblical character novel by far! I have read it 3 times!
Thus, it was logical to me that I would feel similarly about her book on Saul/Paul of Tarsus.And I did get so much from the book.
Paul was a very complicated and at times conflicted person - one who disbelieved and then believed so passionately.
But at his core there was always a strong faith and a commitment that God's will be done.
Caldwell was so committed to intense research and thus by reading it is almost as if you are walking and talking the those familiar early Christians over two millenniums ago.
I certainly did enjoy and am glad that I made the commitment to read this one.
Grandma might not have read many books, but quality is more important than quantity, and these three novels are some of the finest I’ve ever read.Great Lion of God chronicles the life of Saul/Paul of Tarsus, that tempestuous man so vital to the spread of Christianity around the Roman world, and therefore a seminal figure in world history.
(Sounds like this should have been about her novel I, Judas instead, doesn’t it?) And it was that guilt that eventually made me return and read the rest of the book.I know from other people’s reviews and comments that a lot of Goodreaders have “matured” to the point where they discard a book as soon as they know they aren’t enjoying (or valuing) the experience.
I did eventually read it through, but "Dear and Glorious Physician" was clearly a better book and I recall more details of it even mumblety-mumbelty years ago.
Paul the Apostle is the subject of Caldwell's story.
She has created a man of "leonine" proportions, one who lived as passionately before his Damascus Road experience as afterward.
Caldwell does that!
Paul becomes larger than life as he wrestles with his faith, his human nature, his cohorts, his fellow believers, his family.
Caldwell also does a masterful job of creating the Roman, Hebrew and Christian, and Greek cultures of the day--and amazingly the conflicting philosophies seem not so different than those of the 21st century.Her descriptions are lush.
Her style may seem somewhat stilted in that sentences are long, embedded with sensory detail.
A long read--but powerful.
My book club picked this book, because this liturgical year is dedicated to St. Paul. As well, we had previously read Grandmother and the Priests by Taylor Caldwell and which we all loved. Caldwell's research into biblical times bears fruit in this immense novel, moving from Paul's upper-class upbringing in Tarsus to his traveling to Jerusalem. I enjoyed very much how the author brought in to Paul's life, prior to his conversion, John the Baptist, Joseph of Arimathea, and of course, Jesus and His mother...and Paul(Saul) understood them not.
one of my favorites, if not, my favorite. I love the apostle Paul. This is such a wonderfully written fictional story of his life with as much biblical knowledge as possible.
Novel about St. Paul.
The problem is that Paul, as presented by Caldwell at any rate, is truly detestable: arrogant, priggish, humorless, inflexible, and austere.
Caldwell gives Paul a few sightings of Jesus of Nazareth, from which Paul, in his infinite wisdom about God's ways, concludes that this Jesus is nothing but a charlatan.
Because Paul *knew* that God would never so honor a mere woman.
The only reason I rated this as highly as I did was that, as a work of historical fiction, it felt very true to its time and place.
But as a quasi-devotional work, I consider it a complete failure.
Exelente!!! trata sobre la vida se San Pablo, muy entretenido ver como llego a ser ese hombre santo, y la perspectiva que el tenia sobre Jesus
Excelente libro para conocer la vida de San Pablo más allá de su conversión. Vale la pena completar esta lectura con el libro: "Médico de cuerpos y almas" escrito también por Taylor Caldwell
El Gran León de Dios presenta la vida de Saulo de Tarso (después convertido en San Pablo), de una forma novelada, y aunque algunos datos se presumen, por no tener evidencia histórica de su veracidad, leerla puede ayudar a comprender el contexto del origen y la vida de la primera comunidad cristiana.
I was raised to believe it was a special sort of sin to show disrespect to a book, but I just could not make myself continue reading.
I had read over 350 pages and NOTHING had happened.
I've read many books by Taylor Caldwell and found them all worth my time and effort.
If Paul is your main man, there are dozens of better books, fiction and non-fiction about the Apostle to the Gentiles.
If Rome is your meat and drink, try this author' wonderful Pillar of Iron, about Cicero.
If, on the other hand, you are looking for penance for sin, this one will do.
I have read several of her books.
Though I'm not sure I see that in this book.
I find her use of what we might call for knowledge or anticipation I'm not sure what the literary term is very interesting.
Her treatment of his character is quite original at least from my perspective.
I have read several religious themed novels lately hers is the most original.
She does tend to get a bit academic at times as is her character and I do find her there are discussions of philosophy of the time very interesting.
It is definitely worth the read
My two-star rating is purely a visceral reaction to the character and has nothing to do with the quality of the writing.I read this book when I was a young teen.
I'm sure it was well-written; Taylor Caldwell is a fine writer.
I only gave it two stars because it caused me to dislike St. Paul.
I mean, how bad of an arrogant #### do you have to be so that the only thing that'll turn you around is to have God himself (in the form of Jesus Christ) appear before you and strike you blind?
I also read Dear and Glorious Physician (twice) by Caldwell and absolutely loved it.
Passionate, detailed, exciting, and an altogether fascinating read. My one complaint is the frequency with which Paul's looks are described. I got it the first time-- in this story, he has red hair, blue eyes, freckles, a unibrow and a leonine way about him. No need to remind us every three pages for the whole flippin' book. Otherwise, great stuff.
I am a big fan of Louis DeWohl's writing, that is what ultimately landed me at Taylor Caldwell's door. For me, historical fiction stirs me to higher devotion more than a good theological work. This book ranks up there, for me, as one of the best. I will reread it every few years from now on.
This story is a fascinating look at the life and angst of St. Paul the apostle. Again, incredible research is obvious in the writing. I have a much greater appreciation of the books he penned in the New Test.
Apostle Paul really was an average people in biblical time. Devoted to his religion and beliefs, and to his faith and ministry later.With faults, as everyone.
Dios santo! Que libro tan malo, tan aburrido, lo terminé pero ay no, no quiero leer nada más de esta autora.
to read this book concerning to my life.
Interesante, mas me hubiese gustado una mayor fidelidad en cuanto a los datos históricos. La prosa cae en ciertos momentos en un romanticismo innecesario, lo cual le resta fuerza al relato
De cualquier manera, dada la improbabilidad de encontrarse con un Caldwell, para mí, el descubrimiento inesperado de cualquiera de sus historias en algún insospechado estanquillo de libros olvidados se asemeja con toda razón a lo que debe experimentar quien tiene la oportunidad de descubrir un diamante oculto en las profundidades de la tierra.
Hacerme de El Gran León de Dios no fue cosa fácil pero el tiempo y la dedicación empleada para encontrarlo valieron la pena.
While reading a different Caldwell novel, I recognized her style, especially the lurid liberties she took with history in molding her plot.
Searching a list of her works I realized I'd read others.These are well-written stories, fun to read, but no reader should mistake them for biographies or history.
While I am sympathetic with some of Caldwell's suppositions, integrity demands we recognize them as wishful thinking, not scholarship.
On that front, Caldwell is a master of taking the reader into her imagined history with detailed (sometimes exhausting) descriptions of people, place and action.Read and enjoy, but look elsewhere for historic fact.
I knew Taylor Caldwell was a best-selling author. I wanted something uplifting so thought I would try her book about Paul. Instead she portrays Paul in 490 of the 620 pages as mean-spirited, morose, and disdainful. By the time of his conversion, I was worn out! I decided it's best to develop my own feelings about Biblical people rather than read Caldwell's imaginings. I also didn't care for her long, flowery descriptions and odd word choices. The Good News? I'm saved from reading her other 93 books.
Taylor Caldwell is one of the best writers of all time. At first it was difficult to get into her interpretation of the parts of Paul’s life was life that isn’t included in the Biblical account. However, Caldwell’s description of Paul’s conversion, travels to the early Christian churches and subsequent imprisonment, and death in Rome is very captivating. It is interesting to compare Caldwell’s description of Pau’s life with the books he wrote that became part of the Bible versions available to us today. This book is a “must” for every Caldwell fan.
This book is 'historical fiction'. It is well thought out and wonderful reading. Set so, so long ago, there are no physical available manuscripts to completely write a solely historically correct book. However, with what is physically available to historical writers, Ms Caldwell manages to write a wonderful historical fiction account of Saul of Tarshish, St Paul. I, myself, would not have understood the difficulties of the imagined day to day living of that epoch.
I liked a lot of things about this book. Caldwell chose a plausible history for Paul, overall. She has a good point about Paul being the most sophisticated interpreter of Jesus of his time.However, I'm mystified about why she tells a different history of Paul's ministry than the one related in Acts. And her Catholic theology is frankly off-putting sometimes.
IntriguingWorth reading. While long and slow at times, made me see Paul differently than I expected to. Even though a researched work of fiction, I enjoy stories that make me feel like I am there in that place, that time and allow me to see a different point of view.
