https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66468.Fever
Not so memorable for me. Either the storyline or the characters couldn’t engage me.
FEVER is the story of a determined scientist, racing towards a cure for leukemia for his daughter, before it's too late.
This book kind of played out like a movie, rather than a novel, where we see everything from Charles' point of view.
I would be fine with that if the author hadn't randomly jumped in with the support characters' POVs, especially Chuck's or Jean Paul's.
I think it would've been better if the author hadn't narrated from their views at all, and had just taken the MC's POVs. That said, FEVER was hugely entertaining.
DNF on page 41. The more I read of this author's work, the more I realize I severely dislike his writing.
Fever had an interesting premise that tied in medical and environmental issues, but all the characters were selfish and impulsive (maybe Cook was going for “realistic”?
Now his twelve-year-old daughter, Michelle, is suddenly down with a fever; when she gets diagnosed with leukemia, Charles fears that the same tragedy will happen again.
No one thinks nice thoughts, and it feels like everyone’s being self-destructive.The plot itself is also extremely bleak and unrealistic; although Cook combines some interesting issues such as environmental toxicants, disease risk, and a lot of other sciencey things, some situations felt exaggerated and melodramatic.
Initially, the story was stale, old, been there - read that, but I kept reminding myself that this book was written in the early 80s.
Maybe not being a parent, I can't fully grasp the extent of his emotions.
I wanted to tell him to 'let it go, move on.' That said, I don't think the ending would've played out the same way without him having taken that angry emotional journey.I'd say the last 1/4 to 1/5 of the book veered slightly off the expected story line, finally offering a bit of a refreshing and enticing read.
Dr. Charles Martel is a cancer researcher interested in the potential for immunotherapy as a treatment.
He subsequently discovers benzene in the water near his home, a toxic chemical that can cause blood disorders and tracks it down to a Recycling plant.
A recycling plant that is the biggest employer for his small town, and it's own by a parent company that also owns the Weinberger Institute.
Fighting to save Michelle, his job & reputation, his marriage, his home, shut down the recycling plant, and literally his life.Some of the storyline is predictable, but not enough to keep me from wanting to know how it all turns out.
Once again, a single man against the world.A little girl is sick with leukemia.
He has the skills and the means to know what's good for his daughter, but his temper carries him away.
Because the average Americans is able to hold back a whole army.The medical part of the story is quite interesting and I wish to know how much of this cure is science and how much is sci-fi.
The enviromental part of the story and the relationshio with the not-from-the-high-street lawyer could have been longer, it looks to me like a missed opportunity.

The first of Robin Cook' s medical thrillers I read.Not bad,but not particularly memorable either.
Lo peor que tiene la enfermedad es la incertidumbre. Los seres humanos son capaces de adaptarse a cualquier cosa, siempre que haya alguna certeza, pero se enloquecen cuando dan tumbos sin saber nada.  4,5/5 estrellas  Reseña en mi blog ----> Libros con(té)Leído para la consigna Medical thriller del Thriller Challenge 2017
It created sort of an animated visual in my mind about how Benzene silently but cruelly caused all that genetic mutation, the root cause of leukaemia.The story centres around a cancer researcher, Charles Martel whose own child, Michelle develops leukaemia and his attempts to cure his child as well as demolish the cause of her cancer, Benzene, which was being dumped into the river by a reputed recycling factory.
He predominantly focussed on Charles's frustration and resentment all the way throughout the story, except for the penultimate part, where his helplessness and uncertainty surface out, while trying to cure Michelle of her cancer.
Fever is the story of a determined scientist, racing towards a cure for leukemia for his daughter, before it's too late. So I started reading Fever slowly. I became so involved in this story and I felt so touched to see Dr Charles Martel's struggles to save his daughter's life. This book is so real that you completely become involved with the characters and don't doubt for a moment that it has all really happened.
While i was reading it, i was in 2nd year of undergraduate of medical science mbbs, and i had this pathology as a subject, so what mundane things i read in book was given more vividly in the novel. Must read if you are a medico and so relatable. The ending is kinda too far fetched but yeah still it is good. I could write my anwsers in pathology which i had not revised. Don't be intimated that you ate just going to read another text book, it is so no that. I'll give it a 3.5
It got really thrilling towards the end of the book, I couldn't put it down. I really liked the story line. I wasn't too fond of the wife's character and the doctors from the hospital really angered me, but I suppose that's what made the book come to life. I definately want to read another on of Cook's novels.
An incredible book! Robin Cook at his best, writes about a researcher trying to find a cure for cancer when his own daughter is struck with the disease. This book is so real that you completely become involved with the characters and don't doubt for a moment that it has all really happened. I read it in a day, absolutely could not put it down.
The premise of the book is not bad. Charles acts more like a schoolboy throwing a temper tantrum than a professional research scientist. Cathryn, Charles ignorant wife, is a character that doesn't deserve to have been born on paper. The daughter, Michelle, is written better. She has the normal fears of a small child and they are incorporated well into the story.
Aagghh ok! All of his books that I have read are of MEN who are SOOOOOOOO smart and the women are like delicate flowers whom, after the men, fall apart, find the strength to go on... Blah, blah, blah.. This is why I haven't read any of his stuff since highschool... Note to self!
The story was written in the early 1980s and is a bit far-fetched, but a good medical thriller. I found the non-communication between the main character and his wife and family very annoying, but a quick read, nonetheless.
In Robin Cook's first novels, he was a different kind of writer with a new scary kind of story. Now, after all these years, the subject matter is still scary, but has grown a bit tiresome. This is well written, as always, but I believe it will be my last Robin Cook novel.
Robin Cook was the author who kept me sane during my troublesome primary school days.
An absolutely amazing book. It was slow at the beginning, but after that, it was intense all the way until the end. I couldn't put down. Can't wait to read more of Robin Cook's books. ;]
just reread it, had to knock 2 stars off my original rating. it definitely was not cook's best.
4.5 This was a very good story! The medical jargon was a little too hard to understand but I got through it! I was not happy with the ending. Maybe if he left the epilogue out because it feels like there should be a book two. I will continue to read Robin Cook though!
First off...it was really hard to like any of the characters. I finally had accepted that fact and raced through the rest of the book. I even accepted the quick ending, but then the Epilogue happened and I was upset and frustrated again.
Not one of R Cook's best. The story is too linear with the characters very unlikeable.
awesome book
This one book I read long ago and it made me buy almost all his books. Just loved the book, got me hooked
Fever is lethalOnce again Robin Cook left me thinking if it's really a possibility. The book tells you to be quick to seek medical attention.
It was good but sometimes too violent for my taste.
Well written. An author who knows his way around his subject. I look forward to reading more from this author. I recommend this book.
