https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23305614-finding-audrey
Sophie Kinsella used to be such a guilty pleasure author for me. I haven't read one of her books in years but I always enjoyed reading about the hilarious, ridiculous and unfortunate situations her shopaholic protagonist found herself in.Finding Audrey, though, could be Kinsella's strongest work to date. It's funny, sweet, heartwarming but also - I felt - an honest look at a teenage girl living with social anxiety.  “They talk about “body language,” as if we all speak it the same. But everyone h
The dynamics Kinsella creates between the members of Audrey's family make this book very funny (and sometimes touching too).Audrey's mother is a neurotic Daily Mail fan who constantly tries to improve her family's lifestyle after reading articles like "The Eight Signs Your Child is Addicted to Computer Games".
Who, by the way, is so freaking adorable.One of my main concerns when I started this book was that it would turn into another "love cures mental illness" tale.
Even at the novel's close, Audrey has not been miraculously cured.I liked that.
This was so funny and cute!
Even though this book does deal with some serious topics relating to mental health, I felt it handled those elements very well and managed to stay lighthearted and fun.
I really enjoyed the humor, and my initial reaction after finishing this is that I want to read more Sophie Kinsella ASAP!
I could've done with some more details about the events that triggered Sophie's anxiety, but the story is less about what happened in the past and more about her current life and family dynamics, so I was still satisfied with what we got.Overall this was a really fun and fast read, and I definitely recommend it, especially if you're looking for a funny narrator, a cute romance, and an eccentric cast of characters!
THIS WAS SUCH A GOOD BOOK. I appreciated the fact that it was a light hearted book that still dealt with a serious topic like mental illness and did it in a respectful way! BLESS YOU SOPHIE KINSELLA.
LOVED THIS. HERE'S MY BOOKTALK https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UFHUM...
I DNF'd this at 100-pages.This is a book about social anxiety...written in the most insensitive way EVER.
As someone with social anxiety, I just feel this book portrayed it as a joke.
It is not a joke.This is what went really wrong for me in the 100-pages I read: + The mother is INSANE.
We're mixing a real mental illness (Audrey's anxiety) with the mother's kookiness...for a laugh?
Sure people with SAD (Social anxiety disorder) can have crushes, fall in love, get married, everything!
Update: I reviewed/finished this a few days ago after having read it all in one day but as I sit here and plan the review and think about it more I realize it's not a 3 star read, but more of a 2 star read for me so I have lowered my rating accordingly.***This was okay.
I found it didn't really get going for a while and that sometimes the focus was more so on the brother than on Audrey.
But overall the writing was good, the characters were alright, so it was just an average read.
Didn't love it or hate it.
As we are given Audrey's official diagnosis in the beginning on the novel and the fact that the fear of leaving her home is not due to a fear of not having an escape in case of disaster but rather her fear of social interaction & judgement from others, I would not consider this book to have representation for agoraphobia, though many who do live with this illness may find some comfort in Audrey's story regardless.) I liked the focus on that an event may have triggered Audrey's anxiety, but it is primarily a chemical imbalance that she has always lived with - it's not only tied to an incident at school.
I thought it was because the main character was lethargic, which was mostly due to her social anxiety, but so is Audrey.
Her doctor tells her to make a video documenting her life, family, recovery, which helps her interact with others and herself.
Another new key element in her life is her brother’s new friend to whom she took a liking.
It revolves around Audrey’s family and Audrey herself.
Audrey may not necessarily approve of everything her family does—she definitely disfavours the drama—but her affection toward them is obvious to the reader nonetheless.
4.5 stars "Life is all about climbing up, slipping down, and picking yourself up again. And it doesn't matter if you slip down. As long as you're kind of heading more or less upwards. That's all you can hope for. More or less upward." Sophie Kinsella is on my auto-buy list. Her books are like literary sunshine. They're sweet, heartwarming, and never fail to coax a laugh out of me.Finding Audrey is no exception—with a twist. The critical reader in me hates it. At the beginning of the book, Audrey
At the beginning of the book, Audrey needs to wear sunglasses and can't leave the house because of her anxiety.
Love can solve mental illness because fuck reality.Now I'm even more mad at this book because it made me look up Justin Bieber gifs.Linus, the love interest, feels like a Maniac Pixie Dream Boy. His romantic interest in Audrey has no base.
Let's be realistic: being in a romantic relationship with a mentally ill person is a lot of work, especially since Audrey's anxiety is quite severe.
Kinsella accurately demonstrates how anxiety can weigh on familial relationships, which is lovely.Let's not forget the humor:
Sophie Kinsella does it again! If you want a great mental health book, THIS. IS. IT. So therapy and medication positive, along with being positive in general, I love it!
"The trouble is, depression doesn't come with handy symptoms like spots and a temperature, so you don't realize it at first. You keep saying "I'm fine" to people when you're not fine. You think you should be fine. You keep saying to yourself: "Why aren't I fine?" This is going to be one long-ass review, everyone.Let me just preface this by saying one reason why I love this book so much is because of how personal the topic is to me. Some of this review will be a ramble-y description of my experi
I'm a fairly easy person to make laugh, so I don't know how credible my word is, but I found this book nothing short of hilarious."Parents have this way of asking really dumb, obvious questions.Are you going out in that skirt?No, I'm planning to take it off as soon as I get out of the front door.Do you think that's a good idea?No, I think it's a terrible idea, that's why I'm doing it.Are you listening to me?Your voice is a hundred decibels, I can hardly avoid it."Audrey's family is another thing I loved.
I enjoyed everything about it which is a wonderful surprise because this is a story about a girl (Audrey) diagnosed with SAD aka Social Anxiety Disorder and it’s supposed to be depressing or just sad but because the story focuses on how Audrey conquers her depression which becomes less of a challenge everyday with a loving (even though chaotic), hilarious family and a very helpful, cute boy called Linus behind her every step of the way, the overall tone of the story is really light and comfy and the message very inspiring too.
who knew that sophie kinsella would write YA, and then it would follow a 14-year-old girl suffering from immense social anxiety?one thing we did know, though, is that if sophie kinsella were to write a YA contemporary it would, of course, have a massive romance.
that goes without saying.i liked the mental health rep in this a lot.
like this kid linus comes in from out of nowhere and is very flat and we know very little about him and then he just HEALS audrey and like.
and linus, boy wonder/boyfriend of the year, is like.
i liked the mental health rep.
everything else FAILED THOSE TWO THINGS IMMENSELY.
I've heard so much praise about Sophie Kinsella's writing, and I adored it!
I've heard people complain about this book saying anxiety can't be fixed by a relationship, and I have to agree.
I think her recovery was too quick-- and the pace of this book just went too fast in general; there was a very unrealistic jump from "omg don't enter the same room as me" to "omg let's make out." I'm just left confused because i'm not entirely sure what disorder she had, why, and how she was able to recover so quickly.
Audrey is convalescing at home after a particularly bad episode brought on by some bullying at school when Linus enters her life and helps to drag her out of her cage.At least, that’s what the blurb would have you think.
But the truth is it’s Audrey, her doctor and a bit of prodding from Linus that really sees Audrey on the path to recovery – and for someone who keeps dark glasses on and can’t stand to speak to anyone outside her family, that path is very, very steep.Where this book really shines is Audrey’s family and their day-to-day interactions.
I'll start off by saying that a lot of things about Audrey and this book were so similar to me that I was freaking out a little bit.
I mean, I'm sure there are parents out there that are like this, but to the extent where I found myself questioning how exaggerated these stereotypes were was ridiculous.
Now, I understand that at Audrey's age, you get into a relationship and you're telling each other you love them straight away (I know, because I did that too.
So, yeah, I was expecting this book to be good rep and hopefully give me some sort of comfort and a story to look to for hope when my anxiety got the best of me.
For example, one minute, Audrey can’t talk to Linus at all, doesn’t want him in the house and has to write notes in order to speak to him and the next they’re making out.
Or even better, Linus tells her to go talk to random people at Starbucks and she just does it…?
Okay, first : I love Kinsella's works (thought it was important to say write).
Now, her books are the first ones I read in English, so, you know, I might need to reread them some day (I mean duh.
Audrey suffers from an anxiety disorder : she can neither leave the house nor stare into people's eyes.
(not really)Two days laterMum : Have you bought [add magical product sub-mentioned] as I told you?Anna : Yes (not really)Mum : I'm sure you're already feeling better right?Anna : I guess.
Any word, really]I love my mum.
Mum, I'm writing a book about you (not really).Love interest?
She will meet her brother's friend Linus a funny boy, who will help her live again.Audrey the main character is cute and funny!I liked her and I felt sorry for her and what she had been through!There was a little bit of romance in this and it was sweet!I really liked Linus,I loved the messages he wrote with Aubrey they were cute and I like that he helped Audrey to overcome her anxiety.Her family is so unique and funny!
There are two things I think we can all agree on when it comes to books dealing with mental health:1) We want more of them because it is such an important issue and isn’t talked about enough2) Mental health books will ALWAYS be polarizingThere are two reasons for the second point:a) A book deals with the heavy issue in a very serious manner and appears to be quite “dark”b) The author decides to take a more humorous approach and pairs a heavy topic such as mental health with a writing style and s
The story follows 14-year-old Audrey who suffers from severe social anxiety which results in her not being able to leave the house or interact with anyone outside of her immediate family.
Being inside her head was fun while still giving some insight into the thoughts of someone who is suffering from an anxiety disorder “I’ve come to think of my lizard brain as basically a version of Felix.
Well, at least that is what "they" (bad people) say.What I have learned is how young adult genre is the real shit when comes to dealing with difficult but important subjects.
In many ways I feel as if it does and succeeds better at it than most adult fiction trying to do the same.
You are required to write about the "important stuff" but you have to respect good morals, good values, be sensitive and respectful, be a teacher, and heaven's forbid if you decide to give yourself liberties with heartbreaking subjects, serious subjects, and offer a story with same freedom as the adult fiction has, your book is dead.
(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to Penguin Random House UK Children’s and NetGalley.) “To put you out of your misery, here’s the full diagnosis. Social Anxiety Disorder, General Anxiety Disorder and Depressive Episodes. Episodes. Like depression is a sitcom with a fun punchline.” This was a cute story a girl suffering from an anxiety disorder, and her crazy mother!I liked Audrey in this story and I felt really sorry for her. What she had
(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis.
Social Anxiety Disorder, General Anxiety Disorder and Depressive Episodes.
Like depression is a sitcom with a fun punchline.”
This was a cute story a girl suffering from an anxiety disorder, and her crazy mother!I liked Audrey in this story and I felt really sorry for her.
“But I think it’s time, Audrey.
I can’t go to Starbucks.
I’ll stack the dishwasher.
“I’ll read to deaf people.”
I really liked Linus, and he really helped Audrey to overcome her anxiety.
My breath is jumpy as it read it.
i'm physically crying because i loved this so much. will 100% have a full review up soon
I read I've Got Your Number about 3 summers ago and I absolutely loved it!Finding Audrey is a much shorter contemporary read that's super cute and has the ability to lift your mood.
This novel not only centers around Audrey but also her family, so I'm very happy that it took that direction because I haven't read many contemporaries of that sort.
I also really really loved Audrey's brother, Frank.
"I'm talking about the children,", says Mum at last.
We have to finish The Killing," Mum agrees.If you're looking for something quick, funny, and heartwarming, then give this one a try :)
my heart my heart my heart.This book. My heart.
With her Shopaholic series she showed me reading can be fun and now, years after reading her first book, I still enjoy spending my free time with a good book in my hands (or on my Kindle).When I first heard she was about to publish a novel in my favorite genre, I just knew I had to read it immediately.I had a great feeling about Finding Audrey and I was not wrong.In her recognizable style that consists humor, Kinsella writes about serious topics such as anxiety and abusement.I imagine it must have been hard work to touch those serious topics and stay true to her writing style without overdoing the fun parts and diverge from the direction the story was going to.
4 stars! "We're just looking and looking at each other. And I can feel something new between us, something even more intimate than anything we've ever done. Eye to eye. It's the most powerful connection in the world." This book just reminds me about how much I love Sophie Kinsella's standalone novel's. This book is about a 14 year old girl named Audrey, who after an unpleasant incident, develops an anxiety disorder. She's stopped going to her school, rarely leaves her house and wears dark glasse
This book is about a 14 year old girl named Audrey, who after an unpleasant incident, develops an anxiety disorder.
She has regular visits with Dr. Sarah, who describes her progress as a graph chart, with a bit of a jagged line...a little up, a little down.
I thought that Sophie Kinsella handled both the matter of Audreys disorder and the way people can react to it really well.
It's like this endless game of snakes and ladders."And mum just looked at me as if she wanted to laugh or maybe cry, and she said, "But, Audrey, that's what life is.
The first reason is that I really hoped Kinsella's humor will translate through such a young protagonist (and oh boy, did it ever!) and the other is that I often find MG characters too immature for my taste, but Kinsella's magic did it again and totally made this book and character relatable, fun, and all with an important message delivered to the readers.
Also, A Kinsella book isn't one if it isn't laugh out loud funny, which Finding Audrey totally is.
I definitely recommend it to all Sophie Kinsella fans as well as readers who want to try her writing but aren't interested (yet) in her adult books.
Some of the anxiety lines made me tear up out of accuracy, and Frank's video game obsession mirrored how actual hardcore gamers are.
I thought Audrey was going to be inevitably dragged into this gaming scenario, which would've been very easy for Kinsella to do.
And i've actually never done it in the 10 years i've played WoW (which is very similar to the game in the book).
So this scenario would be a PERFECT place for Audrey's anxiety because it would show that yes it's a real thing with real symptoms BUT, RPGs are a good place to lessen it.
