https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/515643.Antigone_In_a_Version_by_Bertolt_Brecht

A verdade é que gostei muito mais dessa versão brechtiana do que o texto clássico de Sófocles, digamos que a Antígona de Brecht tem muito mais acentuada a sua rebelião contra o Estado.
Of the three versions of Antigone, I liked this one the least.
I guess I like Creon too much and in this version, Creon is protrayed as a warmongerer.
I liked Anouilh's version where he was just kind of put up to the throne because of circumstances and tries his best to do well.
Even Antigone, who's supposed to be protagonist here is hard to like.
In Anouilh's version, Creon could arguably be the protagonist and Antigone the antagonist, Antigone is still a stronger character is more forceful and adamant in her views.
I didn't think any of the characters were protrayed well in this version.
This was, by far, my favourite version of Antigone. It resonates with modernity, and clearly portrays the cruelty and intractability of modern dictators, who exist not only in dictatorships but democracies.
مقتطفات من مسرحية آنتيجون للكاتب برتولد ريشت ---------------------- نحن إمرأتان لا نستطيع مجابهة الر

Στην κατά Brecht Αντιγόνη, η ηρωίδα παρουσιάζεται να πηγαίνει κόντρα στους νόμους του κράτους (που εκπρόσωπός του είναι ο Κρέοντας) και αντιστέκεται ενάντια στους δυνατούς, σ'αυτούς που έχουν την εξουσία, στους σκοταδιστές. Δεδομένου την εποχή που έζησε ο Brecht, η Αντιγόνη αποτελεί ένα κάποιο πρότυπο αντίστασης ενάντια στο ναζισμό.Πολύ πιο σύντομο από το πρωτότυπο έργο. Οι διάλογοι των δύο αδερφών είναι πολύ πιο κοφτός, έντονος και επιθετικός από το πρωτότυπο.Ο παραλληλισμός Κρέοντα-Χίτλερ είναι εμφανής.
أبقى بريشت في هذه المسرحية على الجزء الأكبر من نص سوفوكل وأدخل بعض التعديلات هنا وهناك مستبدلًا بعض الشخصيات و مغيّرًا الصراع من صراع أخلاقي إلى صراع مادي مضفيًا بذلك فكره الماركسي على المسرحية.لتحميل المسرحية: http://www.mediafire.com/?pcbfaa7c9zn...
Je ne crois pas que le rapprochement de Créon (très vil et intransigeant dans la conception de Brecht) des questions purement mercantiles - l'invasion d'Argos par l'armée thébaine, inutile d'ailleurs, ne serait qu'un grand pillage dévergondé - soit bénéfique au récit. On dirait que la partition d'Antigone a été réduite et qu'en fait il s'agit de la descente aux enfers d'un homme qui ne connaît d'autre volonté que la sienne. 4,3/5
Three stars, not necessarily because 'I liked it' as the stars claim, but because it is fascinating how Brecht morphed this epitome of a tragedy play into typical epic theatre, by inserting elements that contribute to the (in)famous Verfremdungseffekt and moving the focus of the story to an economic conflict rather than one of ethics.
This play really blew me away. We studied it in drama AS and I've loved looking at all of the characters because they're so dynamic and complex. I am a passionate feminist, love studying Ancient Greece and am fascinated by Brecht, so this play was perfect for me .
ألمتنى جدا ماأجمل الحب حب الاب والام والاخ وحي الزوج والحبيب
لا تحلموا بعالم سعيدفخلف كل قيصر يموتقيصر جديد
Beautiful language in this version. I suppose, having passed through so many hands, it could be expected to be refined. Malina (in her jail cell) has translated Brecht (still reeling from the horrors of World War Two) who adapted Hoderlin (left to rot in a tower of apparent madness) who translated Sophocles. So much war and anger and pain is in evidence here, and through so many hands. Lovely, but difficult.
If I had not just read the original play I'd be nonplussed by some passages, meaning I took issue with this translation. On par with the original play (but not surpassing it), the changed motifs added new inyeresting layers for discussion on top of this ever relevant play. Brecht, incredible as always.
Compared to his best work, this is sub-par Brecht.

(this book counts as 1) imagine rading a play write by one of the most famous play writer of all time.
see i read romeo and jullet and i liked but this play really was right for me.
the actual play wasn't really my type i didn't like it.
i didn't like the play or the plot.
the actual character antigone she was a nice character, she wanted to berry her brother the whole time threw out the story.
she didn't berry her brother somebody else did.
i would recommend this book to anyone in our adversary that likes plays and anyone that needs to finish a book for good reads.

I probably would not have enjoyed this read so much if I had picked it up before the winter of 2016, so be aware of that bias. Of the rewritings of Antigone I've read, this is my favourite largely for the sheer apocalyptic scope of it, its cynicism making itself worthy of reading by also being didactic and moving to action, and because it avoids the dense psychologizing of Anouilh's take - which while I recognize its value, was not for me.
أنتيجون هى ابنة أوديب التى وقفت فى وجه الملك كريون من أجل دفن شقيقها بولينيستعرض المسرحية رغبة أنتيجون و رفض أختها اسمن لمساعدتها و خشية الناس فى طيبة من مناصرتها و يكتفون بالهمس بينهم بالمعارضة و اصرار كريون على قتلها بالرغم من تحذير البعض له من انتقام بلوتولتقترب النهاية فنتسأل أيتراجع كريون عن قراره أم يتلق الانتقام أم ماذا تكون النهايةمن الاقتباسات"إن أشجع الناس يهربون عندما يأتى الموت""لا توجد مدينة خُلقت لرجل واحد""المدينة زوجة شرعية لرئيسها"
mi vida...
أتمنى أن يجيء يوم أرى فيه نصًّا مسرحيًّا مبدعًا كهذا يقدم على المسرح في بلدي
Not my favorite Antigone
"Θαυμαστό τέρας" λέει είναι ο άνθρωπος. Θαυμαστό έργο.
