https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99275.The_Poems_of_Dylan_Thomas
It says more than I ever could: Do not go gentle into that good night,Old age should burn and rave at close of day;Rage, rage against the dying of the light.Though wise men at their end know dark is right,Because their words had forked no lightning theyDo not go gentle into that good night.Good men, the last wave by, crying how brightTheir frail deeds might have danced in a green bay,Rage, rage against the dying of the light.Wild men who caught and sang the sun in flight,And learn, too late, they grieved it on its way,Do not go gentle into that good night.Grave men, near death, who see with blinding sightBlind eyes could blaze like meteors and be gay,Rage, rage against the dying of the light.
I actually recite this poem in my head whilst I’m running.
I’m training for a half-marathon at the moment, and these words make me feel determined.
On A Wedding Anniversary The sky is torn across This ragged anniversary of two Who moved for three years in tune Down the long walks of their vows. Now their love lies a loss And Love and his patients roar on a chain; From every tune or crater Carrying cloud, Death strikes their house. Too late in the wrong rain They come together whom their love parted: The windows pour into their heart And the doors burn in their brain.
Studied these poems at university and am in awe at Dylan's genius. I can't begin to claim I understand all of the poems in this work, but all of the ones I have looked at in depth are quite amazing as pieces of English that touch a nerve and stir your soul.
His style is out of style. Modern poets laugh at his "turgid" verses. What do they know? I feel that what poets offer to us is the ability to channel their emotions directly into words. Style is actually just a matter of personal choice, and is relatively irrelevant. One story: After a visit to his dying father in a hospital, he went back to his hotel room, and wrote "The force that through the green fuse."
" Till every beast blared down in swerve , till every turtle crushed from his shell , till every bone in the rushing grave rose and crowd and fill "
I read a different edition, but I loved this collection. Definitely need to read more Dylan Thomas
Once in while, you’ll begin to read, your heart will start to build its rhythm, your breathing will pause in the tension of it, you vision narrows, the world becomes unsettled, and a perfect verse crystallizes an idea you’ve been searching after and leaves you sick with it.For example I remember this one cold:I Have Longed to Move AwayI have longed to move awayfrom the hissing of a spent liefrom the old terror's continual crygrowing more terrible as the daygoes over the hill into the deep sea.I have longed to move awayfrom the repetition of salutesfrom there are ghosts in the airand ghostly echoes on paperand the thunder of calls and notes.I have longed to move away, but am afraid,some life, yet unspent, might explodefrom the old lie, burning on the ground,and crackling into the air, leave me half blind.Neither by night's ancient fear,the parting of hat from hair,pursed lips at the receiver,shall I fall to death's feather.By these I would not care to die,half convention and half lie.This is to say: While I'd love to spare a reader the sorting of junk from the incendiary, really, I can just note what worked for me.
In any edition, I admire the way Thomas puts together words:"The voices of all the drowned swam on the wind...""At the point of love, forsaken and afraid ...""In the sun that is young once only,time let me play and begolden in the mercy of his means ...""In my craft or sullen artexercised in the still nightwhen only the moon ragesand the lovers lie abedwith all their griefs in their arms ...""Do not go gentle into that good night,Old age should burn and rave at close of day;Rage, rage aainst the dying of the light."The chronological presentation of the poems seems just right.
Dylan Thomas ბევრი არავინ კითხულობს ამ უელსელს, არც მე, რაში უნდა მაინტერესებდეს კუნძულელის სიტყვათა წყობა როდესაც აქაურობს მიაქვს პოეტთა თუ მწერალთა შემოქმედება.
რთულია გაიგო ჟანრი მისი, პიროვნებაც მსგავსად აუღებელი სიღრმეს წააგავდა, რომ არა მისი გაუთავებელი ლოთობის ლოთური სერიათა აქტები, ალკოჰოლის საწამლავით გაჟღენთილი ანტიფსიქიკური რწყევები ზედ ბარის მაგიდაზე არ ჩაწვებოდა მიწაში 39 წლის ასაკში ცივ კუბოში რომლისაც ასე გეშინია შენც, თუმცა თავს მოიტყუებ არაო, შევეგუეო.
ვფიქრობ როდესაც მიდიან პოეტები ამ ქვეყნიდან, იმდენად ბანძდებიან რომ სოციალური ქსელის "ციტატების" ნაწილი ხდებიან, თომას დილანი ვერ გახდა მაგის ნაწილი!
3.5 stars :)
Grief Thief Of TimeGrief thief of time crawls off,The moon-drawn grave, with the seafaring years,The knave of pain steals offThe sea-halved faith that blew time to his knees,The old forget the cries,Lean time on tide and times the wind stood rough,Call back the castawaysRiding the sea light on a sunken path,The old forget the grief,Hack of the cough, the hanging albatross,Cast back the bone of youthAnd salt-eyed stumble bedward where she liesWho tossed the high tide in a time of storiesAnd timelessly lies loving with the thief.....
I think I love Dylan Thomas's poems mostly for their intriguing and ever-inviting titles.
Like..."Time enough to rot", "We have the fairy tales by heart", "We who are young are old"...He enchants us with his perfect poetry.
This particular edition (which the pages are mysteriously repeated around page 226?)is great as it includes a preface written by Thomas himself.
He "fell in love" with words at a young age and is still "at the mercy of words".
Well, he is dead now...But listen as he gives us the secret to all of poetry in this preface.
Poetry is enjoyment.
Dylan Thomas has an awesome grasp on the craft of poetry.
I was very hesitant to read this after my less-than-understanding of Sylvia Plath, but Mr. Thomas was born to write.
Thomas, much like Dorothy Parker, has a penchant for writing about death (Do Not Go Gently, anyone?).
I can see why Bob Dylan copped his last name from Thomas.
In today's world Dylan Thomas would have made a fierce lyricist and even rapper (seriously, try rapping some of his poems).
Anyone who has a hard grasp on the English language is worth a second look.
Brava, Mr. Thomas.You haven't gone gently - or at all.
Wherever I happen to be in the world, I know that reading something by Dylan Thomas would remind me of home.
His voice and topics are so intrinsically, classically Welsh - the preoccupation with nature, the pagan-like mysticism, the quaint sense of humour.
(I don't know if he's the best Welsh writer there's ever been, mind.
Let's not forget the other Thomases - RS, Gwyn...) In all of the poems is an awkward syntax that makes them frustratingly difficult to zip through.
Yes, it could all be intentional and I may just be poetically myopic, but it's all a bit irritating, is it not?
I'll admit that in the past I've been quite put off by poetry in general. However, in my attempts to find some poetry I can connect with, I have discovered Dylan Thomas. This collection of his poems is absolutely beautiful. Thomas writes of love, life, death, youth, old age, nature and countless other things that create a body of work that is exquisite and rich. My favorite poems include "Since, On a Quiet Night", "There's Plenty in the World", "Youth Calls to Age", "Let it be Known" and "Light, I Know, Treads the Ten Million Stars".
This is a really nice collection of Dylan Thomas's poetry and includes several of his most famous such as 'Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night'Thomas's poetry isn't always the most accessible but it is none the less worth persevering with. The guidance notes at the back of the book which provide some background behind each poem are a particularly good feature.Thomas had an obsession with death which often shows up in his poetry.
The fact that Daniel Jones edited and notated this volume is significant, as he was Thomas' collaborator and lifelong friend. It is shocking to realize that the majority of his 200 or so poems were written before age 21. Recently, I resumed a high school project to memorize his poems. I'm not optimistic, but his poems do sound wonderful out loud.
La poesía de Thomas me ha fascinado de todas la maneras, pero no era consiente de lo mucho que divagaba en una misma idea al tal punto de alejar la belleza de la poesía a una indiferencia tediosa. He sido fiel amante de sus palabras, no obstante, esta recopilación no me ha encantado, me ha dejado un tanto decepcionada.
The earlier poems were dense and imagery-laden, such that I felt as though I were drowning in beautiful words. Poems about women or with sexual themes squicked me out with the awareness, in the back of my head, of objectification. But I liked the poems with ocean images, and rereading Fern Hill and Do Not Go Gentle was lovely. New favorites: I Fellowed Sleep and In Dreams (a very early poem).
THOUGH WE'RE CONSUMED BY LOVERS AND DOUBTS.I LOVE AND DOUBT, IT'S VAIN, IT'S VAIN,LOVING AND DOUBTING LIKE ONE WHO IS TO DIE. "NEVER TO REACH THE OBLIVIOUS DARK"(BUT I STILL LOVE "CHILDREN OF DRAKNESS GOT NO WINGS" MOST . ( = = ))
I remember loving this book... carrying it around in my backpack when my good friend gave me a copy .. & being extremely bummed when my pack was stolen and my Dylan was lost.. must pick up another copy.. it's been too long.one of my favorite poets
My favorites are IF I WERE TICKLED BY THE RUB OF LOVE & 146: POEM IN OCTOBER. I declare a favorite and then find another equally or surpassingly exquisite. Bob Dylan and Dylan Thomas both do this to me! Damn, I love my Dylans!
Read "A Refusal to Mourn the Death, by Fire, of a Child in London""[...] sow my salt seed In the least valley of sackcloth to mourn The majesty and burning of the child's death."
Another great New Directions collection of Dylan Thomas.
listen to him reading his poems. mesmerizing!
I had to re-read these poems. They are like a fine wine, getting so much better with time.
so this is the edition i read, but it was a later printing and was softcover.
Dangerous, not at all family friendly, but very good.
Pure poetry...with memorable imagery & powerful lyricism. Dylan Thomas lived in his poetry but died in his cups! Cheers boyo!
"Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night" is both provocative and life changing. I'm always happy to have another piece of classic literature in the back of my mind. What a joy reading!
