https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1097444.The_Case_of_the_Caretaker_s_Cat
The plot twists for this mystery start appearing practically from the second page, so it is hard to describe the plot and make the description comprehensible and short at the same time.
The heir is fine with the provision, but he strongly insists the caretaker's cat - his only true friend - has to go; he even threatens to poison it in case the poor animal remains in the house.
So the caretaker want Mason to protect the cat.
First published in 1935, this is a very early entry in the Perry Mason series, back in the day when there were still cuspidors in the courtroom and when both the police and the lawyers could still cut the kind of corners that would get them arrested, disbarred and jailed in this day and age.Perry is fresh off an exhausting murder case when Charles Ashton, a cantankerous, frail, elderly caretaker comes into the office and insists on seeing him.
The Case of the Caretaker's Cat is a quick, fun read and an enjoyable trip back to the early days of pulp fiction crime.
More Perry. Good stuff but this one was a bit complicated and far fetched. I still enjoyed it but this one # 7 (I'm taking them in order) and the furthest out so far.
Rather convoluted, but still extremely readable and fun.
One of the wilder rides in the Perry Mason oeuvre, and that's saying a lot. There's a green Packard, a brand new Buick, a couple of cats, and waffles. This book is so early in the series that in the last few pages it teases the next one. Mason's law clerk enters to share some details foreshadowing the case of the sleepwalker's niece (footnote promises "will be published early in 1936"). A swell read from the golden age of paperback books.
Peter Laxter's will guaranteed his caretaker a place to live for life but the nephew inheriting says the will doesn't cover the caretaker's cat which he wants evicted. Perry Mason quickly finds out that more than a cat is involved. Vintage Gardner.
Review to come
A fun read, but a bit too convoluted (though the clues are there for the most part) and littered with corpses (even one which is exhumed).The writing has gotten a bit smoother, but still has clunkers like yet another woman (Winifred, this time) with "blazing black eyes," "a quick twist of [Della's] lithe body," and Mason speaking with "a savage impatience."This is a somewhat softer and more caring Mason than in the earlier books, though the gruffnessand control-freak qualities remain.
And her driving is memorable aggressive.Anyway, a fast and fun read, though hardly memorable.
#7 in the Perry Mason.
But Laxter’s grandson Sam says the deal doesn’t include the caretaker’s cat.
On a whim, Perry Mason takes the case, against the advice of his assistant and his secretary, Della Street.
What is at stake in this one isn’t just whether a cat can stay in a house, there’s more: a million dollars in cash and some diamonds.
Mason finds a web of greed and treachery among the heirs, and has to put up with a most repulsive attorney who represents some of them.
The solution to this early Perry Mason mystery (his seventh book, which was released in 1935) is so convoluted that it takes Perry three pages of nonstop exposition to explain it all. But, Perry Mason books are not about trying to figure out whodunit before Perry does, its about the methodical approach to putting the pieces together and the fun byplay between the characters of Perry, Della Street and Paul Drake. Della actually has to pretend to be on her honeymoon with Perry in this outing.
And Mason suggests acting as a honeymoon couple as a cover to Della Street? He's just messing with her now, right?Well, Della gets a few jabs in. Good on her. Oh, and of course, Mason solves the dilemma, once they sort out the cats.
I'm a bit Perry Mason fan, can't help it. This was the first one I ever read. I reread it later and loved it just as much. What can I say, I'm a sucker for any romantic moments between Perry and Della!
I enjoyed this mystery, especially the fun bits between Perry and Della. The mystery was good. I guessed some of it, but not all of it. My only critique is it ended abruptly without a reaction mentioned from the guilty and not much of a denouement. I would have liked to have more of a wrap up.
This was my first experience of Perry Mason and I thought it was a good. It was lacking in drama during "dramatic courtroom finish" but I thought the mystery was interesting enough that I'd recommend this to anyone beginning to get into early mystery novels!
It is always a joy to read a Perry Mason mystery.
Another Perry Mason...more murders than usual. Della and Perry pretend to go on a honeymoon! Perry save the classy car in case he ever wants to go on a honeymoon for real!!
Ամենա-ամենա <3
Perry and Della at their pre-1940 best.
I have been reading nothing but history and biography for months and decided to treat myself to a good mystery, and Erle Stanley Gardner never disappoints!
He keeps me turning the pages, and isn't that what a good mystery does?
I practiced law for 30 years and I never met a lawyer like Perry Mason.
In sum, I suspend my disbelief when I read these books.
But I love the Perry Mason series!
This is the tenth book that I have read in the series and I hope to read them all.
Typical Perry Mason Novel from an era gone by. The way the case starts is a bit hokey, but it gets interesting right away. What was a bit much, however was the ending. There were far too many assumptions made by Perry Mason that apparently went on to be proven true - in today's mystery writer world, such absurdity would not go over well. But, if you enjoy Erle Stanley Gardner and his writing style, this is one worth reading, flaws and all.
This one was a fast-paced double murder. It did remind me a lot of Poirot. The style seemed clearly inspired with Perry (Poirot) narrating the entire sequence as it happened at the very end of the case. For a welcome change, the prosecutor was someone competent!
as always brilliant.Full review on blog: http://whosella.blogspot.co.uk/2017/1...
There is a reason the Perry Mason Courtroom novels aren't listed in classic crime must-read lists.
A fun read.
Qué traducción más horrible, my god. Que me expliquen por qué en dos libros de la misma editorial, en uno traducen los nombres propios y en otro no.
Loved it!
I love cats, so this book is definitely a winner for me. Also, I love the ending! It's a whammy and makes me remember why I like Perry Mason Mystery books.
Mostly I bought them because I love books and couldn't resist buying a few mysteries from the 1930's.This book was a rather quick read and I truly enjoyed it.
Since I am not familiar with the Perry Mason storyline, (I may have only seen one of the movies made from the series), it seemed like a new tale and rather fun to be a part of.In terms of style, the book flowed very easily.
If you enjoy a good, old fashioned mystery book from the 1930's era, then this book is for you.
Erle Stanley Gardner (1889-1970) is a prolific American author best known for his works centered on the lawyer-detective Perry Mason.
The hugely popular Perry Mason television series aired for nine years and 271 episodes.
There have also been six motion pictures based on Gardner's famous lawyer.First published in 1935, Gardner's "The Case of the Caretaker's Cat" is one of the earlier Perry Mason novels, #7.
Ashton seeks Perry Mason's help.
"The Case of the Caretaker's Cat" is a quick, fun read and an enjoyable trip back to the early days of pulp fiction crime novels.
This is the seventh book in the Perry Mason series by Erle Stanley Gardner.
It's a fairly typical book in the series, and I am amazed by how cavalier Mr. Mason behaves as a trial attorney.
I appreciate that the publisher of this edition added a short note at the beginning of the book that highlights that these stories "are very much a product of the environment in which they were written." (p.
