https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/533779.Fate_Is_the_Hunter
Description: Ernest K. Gann’s classic memoir is an up-close and thrilling account of the treacherous early days of commercial aviation. In his inimitable style, Gann brings you right into the cockpit, recounting both the triumphs and terrors of pilots who flew when flying was anything but routine.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hjKHf... Fate and destiny are bottom line answers to every precarious situation in Gann's near-autobiography and philosophically speaking, that really ain't my bag. Apart from that, it is a white-knuckle ride through the early days of commercial airlines. The 'why me' and 'lucked-out's became palling.
Ernest Gann started flying in the late thirties, flew transport planes all over the world during WWII, and continued flying for airlines thereafter.
This book is part chronicle of his many adventures and misadventures, part collection of thoughts on life and flying.Even a pilot with my limited experience can immediately discern the fundamental authenticity in the erudite voice of this true aviator.
Gann writes elegantly, peppering his oftentimes long whimsical tangents with razor sharp understatement.
Really good book, written in 1961, about the early days of flying.
Starts out in DC2s and DC3s, flying mail routes and other similar tasks, then moved to doing flights for the military as WWII began to unfold.
I can especially relate to his speaking of the insatiable appetite of a pilot to look skyward whenever we hear an airplane, or to stand there looking at the runway as a plane takes off, until it finally disappears into the distance...No plot, no apparent agenda, just enjoyable reading about airplanes, flying, and pilots, from a pilot that grew up as our aviation industry was in its infancy.
The book starts with Gann when he is first learning to fly DC-3s and DC-2s in the early 1900s.
Although those who do not know much about aviation may not understand the suttle complexity of flying an old DC-3 or DC-2, they can still be gripped by the emotions Gann pours into his writing when he learns that one of his friends had just crashed into a mountain or simply fell to their death from three-thousand feet.
By the end of the book almost every one of his friends has crashed or died.
This book returns the reader back to the golden pioneering days of Commercial airlines and all the danger and adventure that of the period. Fate is a game of numbers and luck and the author takes us on his ride with fate with all it's ups and downs. Anyone with a passing interest in flying needs to read this book you will not be disappointed.
Amazing tales of one of the first commercial pilots. As a pilot myself I was spellbound but I am pretty sure even a novice would fall head first into the exhilaration adventures as time passes across World War II and the first people of the sky open up the world and discover new frontiers.
We now take flights for granted. But it wasn’t always this easy to hop on a plane and, hours later, land somewhere else. This book tells the story of an interesting point in aviation’s history, when technology had advanced enough but still dangerous. A worthy book, filled with technical details explained with simple, easy-to-read and entertaining.
Since I was a child, I've been an aviation enthusiast so Gann's book which spans both pre and post-WWII aviation is exactly the kind of novel I love.For me, a couple of lessons were particularly poignant from Gann's descriptions of early commercial aviation.
They exist in a half-frightened daze, like punch-drink fighters, and everyone I'd dirty fir them.And I really had no idea that even in the 1950s flight was such a hazardous undertaking even post-war, e.g. page 352.If you're at all interested in aviation, you're sure to like this book and I highly recommend it.
This book and Gann's "A Hostage to Fortune" were among those on my late father's bookshelf for decades.
I kept them to read myself, to see the kind of book he enjoyed.
These books by Ernest Gann must have been good reads for my father.
The inscription on the flyleaf reads: "Ross, Hope you will enjoy this as we did.
Miller [LAX?].")The writing is detailed and well put together - and what an incredible memory Gann had!
This book is about his years as a commercial pilot.I won't rate this book, since I did not read the entire thing, rather, I skipped through it.(I'll repeat much of this review on the other book's page.)
My god, those were dangerous days, and the early airline pilots took risks that would be inconceivable today, letting down through solid weather with inaccurate altimeter settings until as low as fifty feet above the ground or ocean, trying to establish visual contact with the surface; flying into thunderstorms and icing conditions; pressing fuel minimums beyond the point of no return, and reading Gann's litany of departed airline pioneers -- men who died, one after another, usually a microsecond before their trusting passengers -- is a bit like standing inside the cleft of the Vietnam War Memorial, thinking "my god, all those names!"This is not merely a history of the airline industry's early days, it is also a history of the US Army Air Corps' transport command, set up in the early days of WWII, and the establishment of trans-Atlantic routes and refueling stops; a history of American airline involvement in Central and South America; and a lengthy treatise on the airline seniority system.Why call it a near-autobiography?
This dull-head cannot fly very high and seems very stupid.
At the time of feeding, it takes what is left over by the other birds.
The entire novel, along with its epilogue’s haunting reflections on the fickleness of fate, is narrated with a balance of humility and pride that befits the eponymous theme."I returned, and saw under the sun, that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favour to men of skill; but time and chance happeneth to them all."- Ecclesiastes
For me, that was part of the appeal, reading about those times of an earlier era of air transport from a man who lived them.
In general, though, he illustrates with great detail some of the harrowing experiences he had over many thousands of hours in the air and his many close brushes with disaster.
I can see how, when this book came out, it was a new approach to writing about something which was still exotic and rare, unlike the crowded bus-like experience flying on airlines often is these days.
Capt Gann paints a masterful picture of the dangerous days of early aviation and of the mysterious force, fate, that keeps excellent young aviators from long careers, while older, equally capable men live on by staying a fingernails length away from death's grasp.
You don't need to be a pilot to appreciate "Fate is the Hunter," or have an aviation background, as this book only uses the backdrop of aviation to discuss the deeper question of "why" in so many deaths.
Capt Gann makes a plausible case for the later explanation throughout this incredible work.
Perhaps, as an amateur pilot, I'm biased towards this sort of thing, but my appreciation of this goes well beyond enthusiasm about the genre.
Not only is this the finest aviation memoir I've run across, it's literature masquerading as a memoir.
I caught that the second time, but I was so interested in the style that I managed to miss the overarching theme of the book - that fate hunts all of us, regardless of our circumstances - until the next time that I read it.This book is a gem, and the experience of reading it improves after being read more than once.
This book helped me decide to become an airline pilot.
He starts out as a new hire First Officer for American Airlines, learning the ropes on the DC2 and DC3.
And while so much has changed, there are still human elements that remain the same, the dynamics of working in close quarters with a wildly diverse group of pilots.
Any pilot who has gone through new hire training will see that some things haven't changed at all.
As I have moved up the ranks through the years, I have reread this book, each time with a different perspective.
Several movies were made from different parts of this book.
Absolutely my most favorite book.
I had just turned 11 and my dad dared me to read this book.
I found out I liked it, even understanding the theme of luck and fatalism.
I turned it into an A+ book report in front of class.Now, just 50 years later, I bought the hardcover first edition at a used book store--hey, I was going to to this up right.
Afterward, he was one of the lead crews staking out the California to Hawaii airline routes for Matson Navigation Company.
Gann left airlines in 1960 and reinvented himself as a blue-water sailboat buff.
He spins out several stories from his experiences as an airline pilot, from trainee to captain.
It seems that most good pilot stories are also detective stories, and it is entrancing to watch Gann encounter challenges, sort through the possible problems, deduce explanations, find solutions, and scrape through.
Because he was a pilot who lived to write this book.
Gann honors and wishes he could favor the role of skill and experience, but he can't help but despair a little at the role of random bad luck.
A book given to me as a gift from a pilot :) This book allowed me to dive into what it was like in the early days of flying, learn a lot of new technical terms and experience the thrill of adventure that must fuel the spirits and love of so many pilots for the art of flying.
This book is a collection of adventure stories and thoughts about life and the people you get to know in the realm of aviation.
Gann offers many thoughtful reflections about the variety of pilots- their character and skills that he crosses path with.
A wandering account of the early days of commercial aviation, starting out in the interbellum with barnstorming techniques to complete a flight, proceeding through a series of mishaps that could have proved fatal. A fine accounting of how safety was not exactly the highest priority, through the Second World War flying freighters and troop transports before settling into the 1950s and a more reflective attitude.A worthwhile read, pitched at a level accessible to the layman and the professional alike.
This book is Ernest K Gann's memoir of his professional life as a commercial pilot from the 1920s through 1961. Gann was also a novelist who wrote many aviation/adventure novels, some of which were made into movies in the '50s & '60s (including "The High and the Mighty"starring John Wayne,"Soldier of Fortune" starring Clark Gable, & "Island in the Sky" starring John Wayne). If I had a friend or customer who only wanted to read one book on aviation, "Fate Is the Hunter" is my top choice recommendation! Although their are many
A classic read amongst pilots, Ernest K. Gann's memoir of his participation in the early days of flying is full of interesting insights and anecdotes. While he often talks of the near misses of his aviation career the greater story here is the rise of the aviation industry through three wars and into the "glory days" of Pan Am. Low on technical details and high on heroics this is sort of a Homer's Odyssey in the air. The chapters generally form their own episodes so the book is easy to pick-up and put down.
I read Fate is he Hunter when I was about 12 maybe 13 years old after seeing the film.
Our father worked at Curtis Wright Aircraft Company Buffalo N.Y. In WW 2 building airplanes for the war effort so I too have the Airplane Mechanical gene encoded somewhere in my psyche.
Oh I love mechanical things and the amazing ones ha can fly could easily seduce me if were not so afraid of falling out o the sky....But that hasn't kept me from reading about the exploits of fearless men and women who take wings and go...The stuff hero's really are made of.
The first fliers had to be brave to a point of insanity. They flew with no parachutes. They delivered the mail in all types of weather. They flew across country by read reckoning because there were no radio stations to run into. The airports were, generally, pastures with farm animals in them. The first plane to fly in combat was flown by an American during the war with Mexico. This is an excellent read for the genre.....DEHS
This book started out difficult to read; I felt it was long winded. After I got used to his style of writing, I found his stories extremely interesting. I didn't want to put the book down. It's quite the tale of the birth of the airline industry from a pilot's perspective. Well worth reading, especially if you're a pilot.
My second time through it. So far, my favorite book about flying. When I first read it about 15 years ago, I thought it was about flying, and liked it enough. This time, after four more trips downrange, I realized the book is about trying to understand luck. A pilot filter on the question we're all trying to answer.
This book is reputed to be one of the best books about flying and firsthand encounters of a brilliant pilot in times of war and peace. I am reading it at my leisure. Not to be rushed. Too good for that. Will post again when finished this remarkable book.
This is a must-read for anyone interested in aviation. The book follows Gann’s career as a commercial pilot. He recounts events from the 30s through the early 60s that for a simple twist of fate would have joined him to the long roll of the names of fellow pilots who died in aviation mishaps.
What a terrific view into the era of early commercial aviation. Each chapter is a short adventure marking the progression of a pilot's career in the 30's, 40's and 50's. Definitely the best book I've enjoyed this year. Pick it up.
One of the best books I've ever read. A must-read for aviation enthusiasts.
