https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43360.Mount_Vernon_Love_Story
The book offers a glimpse into the personal life of General George Washington, the first President of the United States and his wife Patsy.
The narrative could have easily drifted onto Washington's professional achievements, and his life as the President of the US, of which he served two terms.
Clark has maintained a calculated focus on the story, giving it warm undertones and keeping her eyes firmly on the family life that this great man had, and the endearing love and affection he had for his wife and stepchildren.
Its a warm read and one that is thoroughly satisfying.
Loved, loved, loved this book!
It's an easy read.
I hated to have it end and tried to read it as slowly as possible.
I read Glenn Beck's "Being George Washington", which gave an insight into his Professional Life.
"Mount Vernon Love Story" gave an insight into Washington's personal life with "Patsy".
He's more than just the Hero of the Revolution and our First President.
He was a man without a formal education who never thought himself good enough and always strived to be better.
All he wanted to do was live a quiet life at Mt. Vernon, but duty always called him away.
I do not remember WHEN I read this, I just know I did [and had forgotten about it]. I went through a phase as a young girl where I was into EVERYTHING George Washington and then even more so with Martha Washington. I read a biography on her so many times that the librarian just rolled her eyes when I would check the book out. And then I found this and loved it.
This charming historical novel was actually Mary Higgins Clark first novel, originally published in 1968 under the title Aspire to the Heavens (this was the slogan often repeated to George Washington as a child by his austere mother, Mary Ball Washington – a slogan by which President Washington certainly lived his life!).
This historical love story has proven to me that Ms. Clark is more than just a great mistress of suspense – she is capable of entertaining with other literary genres as well!
This short novel & fast-read would make a great beach or airplane book and I would love to see it translated into a television movie, perhaps on George Washington’s birthday!
George Washington didn't really feel real.
I didn't really get the love story.
Patsy really didn't seem much of a strong character for me.
Clark put this thought into Washington's head about Patsy, "Again he was struck by the realization that this was not a woman who enjoyed the freedom of making her own decisions." Really?
Well, I just don't think she had a story here.
Maybe Washington really had this view of women, wouldn't surprise me but let's not turn his thoughts into a love story.
Meh.Plus, I just never wanted to keep picking it up.
Meh again.
I was motivated to read this book after my family visited Mount Vernon a month or two ago.
The house and grounds are so beautiful, and George Washington's accomplishments, humility, and service to our country are very impressive.After finding out that this book was fiction and written by a popular murder-mystery author, I worried that it would be trashy and poorly written, and unfairly portray George and Martha Washington as typical shallow, romance-novel hero and heroine.To my happy surprise, it turns out that Ms. Higgins did quite a bit of historical research before she wrote Mount Vernon Love Story.
Now I would like to read more about George and Martha Washington.
Sweet historical novel.
A little choppy, as though it was written in segments and then thrown together, not written from the beginning as a novel.
Fun way to read about the personal life of one of our beloved founding fathers.
The most interesting part of the book I found to be was his life growing up.
I am interested to know more about his mother and father and what made them who they were.
He certainly didn't get his greatness from a mother who constantly told him what a great person he was or that he was going to do great things in life.
There were parts of this book I really enjoyed. I did not like how the story kept going back in forth from different time periods. I also wondered if the author took liberties to make the relationship between George Washington and Sally Fairfax more than it was. I would like to think so.
This book was a perfectly fine book, enjoyable enough to read and I’m sure if you have a strong interest in Washington or this time period it would be very enjoyable. I am reading through all of MHC’s works so this was the first stop!
Seemed an appropriate book to read on a flight headed to a DC excursion. Sort of sets the stage for visiting Mount Vernon on Saturday.
This was a sweet read and pretty informitive. It didn't keep me on my toes but a sweet love story.
Amazing!! I have never read a book so fast before. It was so awesome to be taken back in time- into someone's thoughts and life from so long ago...especially someone like President Washington and his bride, Martha (everyone called her Patsy)!
I loved this book, it was a small book and an easy read. Apparently her first book updated, I really enjoyed the story of their love.
As a child I was an avid reader of biographies, especially of presidents, particularly of Lincoln.
I think that textbook histories probably focus so much on his military career and the bare fact of his presidency (as opposed to a fleshed out story, like you get in the John Adams book for example, or some of the other scholarly histories/biographies I've read as an adult) that I was never that interested.
Now I look forward to seeking out other works about our first President!
After being on my to-read list for years I was surprised that I StRUggLEd to finish this book.
I visited Mount Vernon earlier this year and I've read parts of "The Real George Washington" so I felt like I started this book with a decent knowledge of George and Martha Washington and Mount Vernon.
But if you do know a bit about the topic then there are a few themes in the book that will make you go "What?!" I think MHC took too many liberties for this to be called biographical and I thought it was a boring novel.
Clean.
I love finding books written for adults that I can read and enjoy!
Who knew Mary Higgins Clark wrote historical fiction?
I believe it was her first novel, having, reportedly, done extensive research on George Washington, trying to ferret out the truth of his interest in his neighbor, Sally Carey Fairfax.
It was as much of a love story of George Washington and his beloved Mr. Vernon as it was a love story between him and "Patsy" Martha Custis.
At any rate, reading it before visiting Mt. Vernon added depth to my experience there.
My first time reading Mary Higgins Clark.
This was her very first book she wrote, a historical fiction about George and Martha Washington.
Each chapter in the book is a different time period (it jumps around), so sometimes I had to go back and think about when this was happening.
But every chapter, no matter what time period, is filled with a longing to get back to Mount Vernon.
My husband read 1776, so it was interesting to compare notes from both books.
I really recommend this book for a meaningful and enjoyable read!
Easy read of historical fiction in which President Washington is returning to Mount Vernon after completing his 2nd term as President and flashback to various events in life (from about age 16 until 1775). The books does not dive into the Revolutionary War or Presidency periods and stays away from the war/politics in Washington's life. It focuses on his personal side and relationships with family and friends. Not sure how many "liberties" the author took in writing of these personal items, but quick, easy read which explores a side of Washington rarely discussed in history class.
This is Mary Higgins Clark's first novel. It can also be found under the name, "Mt. Vernon Love Story." It is about the love story between George & Martha Washington. There is historical value in reading it and I also found it refreshing since most of the books about George Washington discuss his love for his best friends wife, Sally Fairfax. Perhaps the other books are more historically accurate but I liked this one even if it was more of a fantasy than reality.
Although I love reading about George Washington and think he is an incredible man, this book was basically just fluff and really didn't cover him or his relationship with Martha as much as I would have liked. Clark said she did a lot of research, so I think she should have filled the book out more and written more in-depth. Basically, I wish David McCullough would have written this book.
This is a delightful novel about the nation's hero George Washington. I very much enjoyed this delightful novel about George and Martha Washington. My only criticism is that I wish it had been written in more depth.
This is the original title for Mount Vernon Love Story, a historical novel about George and Martha Washington. Although not my favorite genre, I picked it up because of the author, and thorougly enjoyed it.
I loved this book. I read the series "Prelude To Glory" about George Washington and the Revolutionary War and this just added such a personal touch to such a great man. His life was such a mixture of challenges and blessings.
A love story about George and Martha Washington. It is now published as "A Mt. Vernon Love Story".
3.5 starsMs. Clark's first book, which I hadn't even known existed until it was re-issued. A good solid story, if a little dull at times.
Just a really nice piece of fiction work regarding the marriage of George and Martha Washington. It was an incredibly light read, but it was sweet.
This help make George Washington into a real person. It helped to understand his choices and resolve. I love history that comes alive as this book did. I highly recommend it.
From the beginning of the read I was so eager to read such a late love story that I knew nothing about. It was tough to get used to the way Mary Higgins wrote but it was a great story. I enjoyed it.
It would had been much better flow if the story was told from his beginning to the end of his presidency where the story ended.I lived in Northern Virginia for 8 years, so of course, my family toured George Washington's much beloved Mount Vernon.
Another time, we also toured Mary Ball Washington house where she lived the last 17 years of her life in Fredericksburg.
Then a few years ago, my good friend and I toured George Washington Birthplace National Monument just east of Fredericksburg, so it was really cool reading about places in the book that I've been too.
I loved all the little facts that she included, down to the materials used in Patsy's clothes, to the furniture and draperies.
I loved how human George was in the story.
Patsy and George had no idea how much they loved each other, but the author shows us in lots of little ways.
This might have been the author's first book, and there are little mistakes, like a few pov shifts mid scene, but I thoroughly enjoyed the book, and recommend it to Colonial fans.
You will love the way the history of that particular time is described.
