https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/199687.Second_Helpings
They were so much fun to read about, and I loved how Gladdie always had the right piece of advice for Jessica, supported her in her decisions – and called Marcus ‘Tutti Flutie’ (view spoiler)[ and tried to mend his and Jessica’s relationship.
(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[Jessica and Marcus are together in the end!
(hide spoiler)]Reasons I enjoyed Second Helpings less than Sloppy Firsts:Everyone seemed to be obsessed with sex.
It didn’t have as much Marcus Flutie as I had hoped for.Some of the decisions Jessica made just came out of nowhere and I couldn’t understand why she would make them.
There are a lot of negative reviews on here and I have to say that now, after having read the second installment in this series, I understand why some people don’t like these books.
I can see why there are people who don’t like her.
;-) What makes me relate to Jessica to an almost creepy extent, makes others dislike her.The second thing that makes this book sometimes difficult to like is the writing.
Second Helpings was pretty much focused on Jessica’s love life, which I didn’t mind, because it was just so much fun.
Thus, Jessica’s last year of high school starts and if you thought Jessica had things figured out after  Sloppy Firsts,  think again!
McCafferty shows us this so perfectly that we can’t help but love Jessica, even for all her flaws and mistakes in this book.
McCafferty’s book are absolutely wonderful and I think part of the reason why I love them so much is because my best friend and I attend different schools as well, yet, she is  still  the most influential person in my life and I can connect with and understand Jessica on a deeper level because of it.
Chances are, it was a Jessica Darling book.Second Helpings may not have left me on the verge of a panic attack in its ending like Sloppy Firsts managed too, but there was enough angst leading up to one fantastic ending to leave me huddled in the corner eating my hair and hoping that I will one day again have a decent night’s sleep where I don’t wake up in a cold sweat of panic over the lives of Jessica Darling and Marcus Flutie.
As I found myself with very little time lately and therefore being unable to concentrate my poor brain on anything, including a new book, I decided to go back to an old classic (so fear not, Joe Abercrombie, the only reason I put your delicious book on hold is because I don't want to ruin it by reading one sentence out of two).It's been some time I wanted to go back to Jessica Darling's tremendous high-school years and the planets finally aligned to permit that blissful reunion this summer!The two first books* of this series should be mandatory read for....
As much as I loved "Sloppy Firsts," as much as I admired Jessica Darling and identified with her in that book, I just couldn't bring myself to give this sequel more than 2 stars, simply because I didn't like how this story unfolded.For one, I thought Jessica digressed in this installment.
I no longer found her funny and spazzy, I found her immature, whiny, and, for all her school smarts, dumb.
Where did her self-respect and idealism go?But even more, I disliked the direction Jessica's relationship with Marcus took.
There were some funny bits, some sweet moments and some sexy poetry.
Then what contributed to the demise of that one star?That effin' obsessive talk about the protagonist's virginity.What is wrong with chick lit?
From The Princess Diaries to Perfect Chemistry to Anna and the French Kiss(and hundreds of others I can think of), there's this forever present whining about the main character's virginity.What is this, Red and Black?
My poor face has nothing to do with you losing your virginity.
Where's she gone??It's sad how every chick lit book feels compelled to address the issue of one's virginity.
Ok, I haven't wanted to stop reading to write a review for a while, but I feel these books deserve my attention.
My lord, do I love Jessica Darling!
This girl has such a fresh and entertaining voice, I'm amazed at Megan McCafferty's writing skills!
I know the concept of this series is nothing new, (girl writes in journal a la Bridget Jones)...but I couldn't put it down.
I mean, correct me if I'm wrong, but that is funny shit!!!!I'm very happy this is a 5 book series and look forward to sharing Jessica's uni experience, I hope she can keep this level of awesome up.
And I particularly liked that Megan McCafferty took some interesting turns and difficult decisions in the course of the book that denied easy answers or simple options.It wasn't perfect.
The indecision and misreads in her relationship with Marcus dragged on in the latter part of the book.
And Jessica's casual, comprehensive dismissal of conservative politics was as ignorant as it was lazy.
She stung some liberal politics worse and more in-depth, so I'm not actually griping about political slant, here, so much as that the conservative take-down was lazy and unexamined—which was somewhat out of character for Jess, really.Minor weaknesses aside, I was as charmed by the wit, humor, and emotional engagement as I was with the first.
And the ending of this book was pretty near perfect.
Ehm.Je tak trochu výstižné, že jsem zůstala vzhůru celou noc a četla knihu o dívce, která je mi kromě jiného podobná i svými problémy se spaním.
Rozhodně je lepší celou noc číst než pár hodin zírat do stropu.
A ráda bych se považovala za Jesiccu samu, ale faktem zůstává, že ona je mnohem odvážnější, chytřejší a vůbec všechno co mě v šest ráno nenapadá a já můžu jen doufat, že Jenn Sweet je moje alter-ego.Tak že bych konečně byla schopná usnout?P.S.: Tady prostě CHCI happy end.
Ale jestli nebude, budu mít další důvod, proč si sarkasticky stěžovat v "deníčku", jak je život nefér.
I loved the book so much more than the first one. Marcus is so sexy!!! I want him badly. Damn fictional characters why can't they be real and why can't this be my life.
Most of my Goodreads friends have loved this book/series (lots of 4 and 5 star reviews!) so I'm disappointed at giving this book 1 star.
Good for you." (23%) And then she was happy because the girl stopped what she was eating and gave the rest to Jessica.
She's homophobic:  She has a major crush on Paul, who is gay, a fact that she mentions constantly.
I don't find it annoying or offensive when Pepe acts ghetto because (unlike Miss Hyacinth Anastasia Wallace and countless Wiggaz at Pineville High) he's doing it to be funny, not to keep it real.
So this book is obviously the best of the series.
If it was 1998 and the Jessica Darling series was N*SYNC, Second Helpings would be Justin Timberlake, in all his curly-haired, bleach blond glory.
I really can't put my love for this book into words.
Jessica is obviously growing up.
With Jessica, we get to read about her teen years through her twenties.
I love that Meg Mc lets her main character make mistakes and pay for them.
The almost/kinda-love triangle was almost nonsensical at times, but Meg Mc drew my sympathy for each of the parties involved.
I enjoyed this book so much more than the first one. I felt Jessica, the MC, was less annoying and whiny in this one. Some reviews seemed to think just the opposite, but I'm so glad I continued with the series. There were still some moments that made me want to smack Jessica up side the head though. All in all a fun series and I look forward to finding book 3 at my favorite used bookstore.
I will do my best to refrain my flailing and fangirling in this review, but it's going to be really difficult, because this series gives me so many feels.
Second Helpings follows Jessica through her senior year of high school, and had me even more on the edge of my seat than the first one.As I mentioned in my review for Sloppy Firsts, I love Jessica.
In Sloppy Firsts, Jessica did a lot of things to please others, but now she's focused on herself.One thing (out of many) that I love about this series is that it's so obvious that Jessica doesn't know what she wants.
How I Came To Read This Book: My friend Anna insisted I read it.The Plot: After a rather explosive time in Jessica's life - including the burning of her precious journals - everyone's favourite darling is back and ready to tackle senior year with more biting, raw commentary on the happenings at Pineville.
The problems are just as realistic and dramatic - for a teenager - as ever in Jessica's life, ranging from boyfriends to sex to friends to family to expectations for college.The Good or Bad: This was my fave Jessica Darling book.
After learning of Marcus' betrayal and vowing to never speak his name again, Jessica prepares for her senior year by getting the heck out of dodge...er...Pineville by enrolling in a teenage writers camp called SPECIAL.
That is until she accidentally turns in her actual journal instead of her class-required journal for credit and her mentor is suitably impressed.
There were tons of great things about this book - Jessica is dead-on with her descriptions of the sheer terror every teen faces in trying to decided what college to attend (I mean really, it's only your ENTIRE FUTURE we're talking about here people) and the odd, bittersweet goodbyes of any senior year.
same ole jessica d., same ole marcus flutie (my soft spot for brilliant redheaded male poets in literature is legendary), same ole clueless crew, same ole letters to hope marking the end of each month, all good as far as i'm concerned2.
i can see so much of myself and my life in these books that it makes me feel like mccafferty is ripping off my life at times.
again, i hate feeling like they're setting up the NEXT book at the end of this book.
it makes it feel like the book has no ending.
I read Second Helpings because I wanted an easy read.
Although I was really surprised to find that the main character and I shared a sense of humor with a lot of similar feelings thus making this book not only easy but enjoyable.I liked the book most for its style.
We see her true thoughts and feelings as the story is told through the pages of her journal.
Jessica's savvy attitude and profound intellect bring forth a very revealing and truly likable story.We are introduced to Jessica's life as she enters the summer before her senior year.
Read this book.PS: This is the second book of the series although reading the first one isn't necessary.
I was so very convinced that the second instalment of Jessica Darling series couldn't possible be better than the first.
Way better than the first because now that I know Jessica and her world I am hopelessly compelled to it all.
I really wasn't expecting things to turn out as they did and so the surprise was so much sweeter than I could ever hope for.
This book has touched so many things inside of me I can't even start to discriminate them one by one.
I applauded her for not giving in to Scotty, but then she turned around and dated Len for all the wrong reasons.
One thing that really bothered me and I know it is trivial is when Marcus and Jessica finally do the deed and he tells her that he is happy she waited for him to be her first.
The author really missed the mark on that one, she shouldn't have made Jessica so obsessed with sex if she wanted her relationship with Marcus to be sweet IMO.I will read the next one even though I have no clue as to why the author even wrote a third novel in this series.
Does Jessica cheat on Marcus?
Marcus Flutie, you have stolen my heart. You. Yes. You. And I wouldn't have it any other way.
Have you ever pulled an early 2000’s teen lit book off your shelf, not even sure why because you had better options you could have been reading, then read it and really liked it but felt like the world’s biggest loser because it wasn’t exactly Shakespeare but it was a super fun guilty pleasure anyway??..... uh.... Yeah, um, me neither..... 🤥
You are wearing on me a bit.
And I'm starting to think you are a bit of a hypocrite, in light of your conversation with Paul.
It took me about 3 days to finish this book, and that's got to count for something.Maybe my expectations for this book are just too high.
It is what it is: a high school girl's journal.
And really, was my high school journal any more enlightening?I will continue on (if my friend Lauren remembers to bring the books in for me :)...although I have a funny feeling I may have already read the best Jessica Darling book.
Is it too weird that Gladdie is one of my favorite characters? No, I guess not. She's just that awesome. And so are the Silver Meadows residents.Still as funny as the previous ones, Jess keeps as clueless as some of us still are. Because life is hard... And then you get to college.
Despite there being several things in this book that unfolded in a way I didn't like, or thought were cheap plot devices, I REALLY liked this book. And I enjoyed it much more than the first book. I'm glad I'm finally reading this series and can't wait to see where it goes.
I was feeling the need to re-read some Jessica Darling. I cannot even remember how many times that I've read this series. I just love it. It's so nostalgic for me.I started reading it when I was 16. I still adore it and love to go back to it every so often.
Puh-leez, I need more of Jessica's ramblings. Me. Yes. Me.
Again, it really spoke to me in the way that Jessica Darling is pretty much me when I was in high school, but in this book she was a little too unsure and up/down about her feelings which got annoying to a point.
I felt as if J.D.'s indecisiveness was a detriment to the book.
I'm not going to say she was hyper-aware and confident in herself throughout the first book, but she at least was resolute in what she felt.
In this book I couldn't latch on to that same feeling.
Plot summary: The plot summary of this book is that Jessica goes off to college, and she has one of her friends go with her too.
Bridget, who is the friend that goes with, annoys her, and she tells all of her friends secrets about Jessica without telling her that she is doing so.
Jessica goes through many testing friendships and struggles.
She meets new guys, but nothing goes well with any of them because of Bridget.
But if guys wanted to read it, it would probably be boring to them.
