https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/676158.Lucky_Starr_and_the_Moons_of_Jupiter
Lucky Starr and the Moons of Jupiter (Lucky Starr, #5), Isaac AsimovLucky Starr and the Moons of Jupiter is the fifth novel in the Lucky Starr series, six juvenile science fiction novels by Isaac Asimov that originally appeared under the pseudonym Paul French. The novel was first published by Doubleday & Company in August 1957. It is the only novel by Asimov set in the Jovian system.
It was interesting to see that even in 1957, Asimov had formulated his famed Three laws of Robotics.
It is especially interesting since this was penned by "Paul French", a pseudonym Asimov used early in his career.
The title page has Paul French on it.
I suppose Asimov was still unknown enough that people wouldn't have necessarily connected the Three Laws of Robotics with him.
However, so are all of Asimov's titles, except his limericks.
Addendum: I found I have the complete adventures of Lucky Starr.
I'll have to try and find other Lucky Starr titles.
Was his series of young-adult Lucky Starr novels merely the public expression of an escapist fantasy universe, or did he intend to win young, intelligent minds to scientific inquiry by showing just how cool science could be?In the fifth adventure of the Lucky Starr series, Starr and his spunky sidekick visit top-secret Project Agrav, based on Jupiter IX , to control gravity by storing potential energy.
Can Lucky and Bigman identify and capture the spy before he—or it—can sabotage the first flight to Jupiter's innermost satellite?At one time, Moons of Jupiter was perhaps my favorite novel in the series, but perhaps too much of my fascination with the story centered on the Agrav technology, since I know consider it one of the weaker ones.
Though what Bigman lacks in stature, he compensates for in bravery and bravado—a combustible mix that often ignites trouble for the pair.Upon arrival on Jupiter Nine, Starr and Jones are immediately met with hostility from workers who have been repeatedly questioned and interrogated by government authorities in search of a possible spy from Sirius, an Earth colony settled generations ago that had turned against its planet of origin.In an attempt to gain an advantage in their search for a possible Sirian infiltrator, Starr brings with him a V-Frog, a small amphibious creature from Venus that possesses remarkable empathic ability.
If I was told that one day I will give an Asimov written story anything less than perfect I would have thought that person didn't know me at all.
Compared to Lucky's other books this one contained a bit more science than usual.
it was all about describing how Jupiter looks like and how its moon moves and how sunset and sunrise look like which made the story boring.
it was getting on my nerve how Lucky didn't see it.
also, usually the dangerous part of the story last longer with more detail but here the whole even of sabotage and rescue and repair was only 4-5 pages with vague details about them.
Great read, engaging and thrilling.
Highly recommended for fans of the genere and of Asimov.
SPOILERS AHEAD!!!I continue to prefer the direction taken in regards of Lucky’s approach to solving problems, more Sherlock Holmes than Batman.
It tempted me with psychic themes just to kill the frog half way through the book.
Nevertheless he Robot theme continues through the end and the resolution was satisfactory for me at the end.
The only inconsistency was, why not use the same device used on the previous book to detect the robot.
Other than that, I really enjoyed the book.
A one day read on the plane for me for this one, I would say that this was a step down after reading The Naked Sun, as the conclusion was preditable it was not well structured or surprising the end was predictable and not all that believable. Only one more Lucky Starr book left to read but I will first have to find a copy. Now is time to move onto some other authors for a little while work through a bit of my back log of purchased books and some new ones like The Consuming Fire.
Viel besser als ich die Luckys in Erinnerung hatte. Eigentlich geradezu gut. Einfach gestrickt aber gut. In der Tat so einfach, dass ich doch gleich in dem Hund den Roboter vermuten konnte. Mit ordentlichem Namen und ohne Bigman wäre das ganz okay.
took a long time on this one but I'm finally done, theres a summary of it on wikipedia: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lucky_S...
Like all of the other books in the series, you have to remember the knowledge of the things like computers and space when reading it.
Fun read
muy bueno! el final me lo esperaba un poco, pero aún así lo disfruté. Hubo algunas partes como el sistema de gravitación AGRAV que directamente no entendí
Imaginaba que el sistema de espionaje tenía que ver con los animales pero la revelación fue toda una sorpresa. Como siempre, muy emocionante.
Weakest of the stories so far & god knows terribly dated, but the descriptions of the movements of the various moons was sort of interesting
Dopo il mezzo passo falso su Mercurio, le vicende di Lucky Starr riprendono una quota accettabile in questo quinto episodio che trasporta il lettore sui (e fra i) satelliti del più grande pianeta del sistema solare.
Convinto che il traditore sia un robot, Starr si porta una delle empatiche rane venusiane per smascherarlo, ma l’animaletto viene presto eliminato rimandando il disvelamento del mistero al primo viaggio della nave Agrav, che è progettata per viaggiare fino al satellite più vicino a Giove potendone contrastaree l’attrazione.
Information about a secret research project is being leaked to the Sirians, and Lucky Starr and Bigman are sent to investigate.
The research facility on the ninth moon of Jupiter is working on an antigravity drive (or Agrav) which would generate power while dropping into a gravity well, and use that same stored power to push the ship back out of the gravity well.
The scientific ideas Asimov is playing with in this book are some of the most interesting and the plot is full of fast-paced action and interesting characters with good backstories.
Como siempre Isaac Asimov inventa una historia detectivesca como excusa para dar veintena de datos sobre algo. Este vez es sobre Júpiter y sus lunas. Si Júpiter fuera hueco, Bigman, podrías meter mil trescientos planetas del mismo tamaño que la tierra y no podrás llenarlo del todo. Esta vez es el inteligente y audaz de Lucky Starr que es encargado de descubrir un espionaje de los Sirianos, los ex habitantes de la tierra que conquistaron los planetas y asteroides más allá del sistema solar. Siemp
Como siempre Isaac Asimov inventa una historia detectivesca como excusa para dar veintena de datos sobre algo.
Este vez es sobre Júpiter y sus lunas.
Esta vez es el inteligente y audaz de Lucky Starr que es encargado de descubrir un espionaje de los Sirianos, los ex habitantes de la tierra que conquistaron los planetas y asteroides más allá del sistema solar.
Es la primera de todas las novelas que escribió el Ruso más norteamericano que conozco sobre Lucky Starr.
Había una sensación de "mañana" casi tan fuerte como si hubiera un sol saliendo por el este y hierba cubierta de rocío.
Stretching a bit (but not too much to break it!) the Science to fit the Fiction of a solar system peopled by human colons and extraterrestrial intelligent life forms, Asimov cooks up a fun, fresh and adventurous space opera saga, peppering it with quite a few Western genre tropes and leaving the tone evolve to a Cold War investigations series (moving with the author’s times, so to say).
On a separate note, the saga bears the seeds of the universe explored in the 
series: an added value for any Asimov enthusiast!Following the 

Even at the time I read them in my early 20s, I was not greatly inspired by these, but then again, Issac Asimov wrote them in the 1950s as juvenile science fiction novels under the pseudonym Paul French.
As Asimov admits in the 1970s authors note, the knowledge about the planets and moons has changed greatly, and obviously much much now in 2016.
So, there is that problem about reading sci-fi when you already know the science knowledge is significantly out of date.
Still, that doesn't stop me watching schlock sci-fi movies.
Once again IN THE FUTURE THERE ARE NO WOMEN!
I do get disappointed when I read science fiction and ALL the characters are men.
Not only are there no women working in space but there are no women mentioned at all.
I would have thought better of Asimov.
I suppose this was a "boy's adventure" but it still boggles my mind that in that situation they didn't feel the need to include women.
The characters are all a bit stereotypical.
There is an awful lot of the characters explaining the scientific principles of their technology to each other.
Tras mi reciente mudanza he sacado del trastero todos mis libros infantiles y juveniles (Hollister, tres investigadores, Elige tu propia aventura...), y descubrí que de las novelas de Lucky Starr me faltaban dos, que procedí a encargar de urgencia y leer ávidamente. En las lunas de Júpiter Lucky Starr debe contribuir al desarrollo de la tecnología terrestre para evitar una guerra con humanos de otros sistema estelar. Se nos habla de la gravedad y la composición atmosférica de Júpiter, de sus lunas, y de cómo sería el funcionamiento de un hipotético sistema antigravitatorio. Genial introducción a la ciencia para niños.
There are several elements--including the one that the entire solution hinges on!!--that are blatantly inconsistent with the worldbuilding in earlier books.
And Bigman, always the reckless sidekick, becomes in this book so cringeworthily boneheaded that some of his scenes are hard to read.
I would say the series had jumped the shark here, but Rings of Saturn is arguably the best one, so who knows what went wrong with Moons.That said, of course there are fun parts, and some of the gravity stuff is pretty neat.
In three or four rereads of Lucky Starr, I've never actually skipped Moons.
Es divertido, Asimov usa su narrativa para una vez más explicar en base a los datos obtenidos de manera científica para la época el sistema de estelar de Júpiter, también se nota el cambio de la trama a algo más del estilo del espionaje a diferencia de los primeros libros que era más estilo luchador contra el crimen, sin embargo sigue siendo entretenida. Considero que este sería el segundo libro dentro de la mini saga sobre los Sirianos.
#5 in the Lucky Starr series.Lucky Starr, Space Ranger, and his sidekick Bigman Jones, go to Jupiter IX where a new type spaceship is being prepared for a flight to Io. Lucky becomes convinced that sabotage attempts are the result of Sirian espionage, accomplished through a sophisticated robot and a human agent.
Great book. Unlike most of Asimov's other books, this one is mostly for children, but his writing is very entertaining in this genre too. Some things were a little illogical and some parts with astronomical descriptions seemed too educational while I prefer my books more psychological, but still it was a very nice adventure - I liked the mystery, I liked the characters, I liked the whole story.
Una nova entrega de la sèrie, la penúltima. Interessant però amb un final molt previsible des de la 1/2 del llibre i amb una explicació/justificació del mateix massa forçada :(
Reread June 25, 2004.
Isaac Asimov, one of the best science fiction writers... the combination of the human mind and the three laws of robotics, makes this book interesting for the reader.
A nice and slow detective story, with better thought out characters and motives.
