https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41021631-the-monkey-s-raincoat
Fortunately, it got much better.Robert Crais is one of those mystery writers I’ve been meaning to read for a while now.
Crais seemed to find his own rhythm, and Elvis started seeming less like a collection of character traits and morphed into a protagonist I was actually interested in.
If he got that much better over the course of one book, I’m really interested in seeing how much more Crais improved over the years and considering the lists of awards he’s won, it looks like he has been living up to the promise he showed here.
I have been meaning to start this series since last year and had high hopes as many of my friends are Elvis Cole fan. But this didn't work for me. Case was decent enough but there was just too many twists for a simple case. Cole didn't make a good first impression. Hope second book will be better than this
Crais' first book, The Monkey's Raincoat, is full of one P.I. trope after another, with a 1980s plot ripped off from Miami Vice, and characters created with the depth of pop psychology from Donahue.We begin in Elvis' office, where he's busy staring at his Pinocchio clock.
Elvis wisecracks from the start, much to the confusion of Ellen and the annoyance of Joe, as well as Reader Carol.
Not long after, Ellen and Mort's home is tossed, requiring Elvis to come to the rescue and wisecrack with the cops.
Unless you have time in your life to be a series completionist, I'd generally advise skipping this and starting at Lullaby Town instead.
Mort Lang runs off with his son, leaving his wife and daughters in the lurch.
Elvis Cole is tapped to find him and promptly ends up in the middle of a plot involving two kilos of cocaine.
Can Elvis find the drugs and find Mort and his son?I have to admit that I wasn't sold on Elvis Cole at the beginning.
Then Crais grabbed me and dragged me to the end of the winding tale, showing he knows how to craft a good detective yarn.
By the end, I was ready for more Elvis Cole and Joe Pike.
Great read!!! I already have the 2nd book in the series.
Before long Ellen’s apartment is ransacked, a death and another disappearance follow, and Elvis realizes he has a dangerous case on his hands.I’m almost two-thirds done with my re-reading of Robert Parker’s Spenser series, and I’ve been looking around for another series to read once I’m done.
After this first Elvis Cole mystery, I think I’ve found what I need.
The plot gets darker, the writing less derivative, and the book concludes with a dramatic attack by the good guys on the bad guys—one of the best sustained action sequences I’ve read in a long time.
Unless something surprising shapes up as I write this, I don't think I have anything new to add to the general consensus that other reviewers have established for this novel, the first mystery in a series that features private eyes Elvis Cole and Joe Pike.
However, it seems to be a good rip-off, the kind with promise, because the book starts well and gets better and better, apparently, whether or not Parker's oeuvre is weighing on you.I enjoyed Elvis Cole's tough guy, first person narration/banter from the get-go.
The Monkey's Raincoat: The P.I. Who Didn't Want to Grow Up  “ ‘Prove yourself brave, truthful, and unselfish, and someday you will be a real boy.’ The Blue Fairy said that. In Pinocchio.”- Elvis Cole Licensed Investigator, State of California    A dream is a wish your heart makes...  Mr. Cole, this looks like the beginning of a beautiful friendship. Yeah, with you and the big guy, Joe Pike. Don't tell him I said so. I don't want him to jump to the wrong conclusion. But, after all, he said you ta
Mr. Cole, this looks like the beginning of a beautiful friendship.
Yeah, with you and the big guy, Joe Pike.
I worked with a lot of guys that went to the Nam. Yeah, some of them came back different, real different.
Some almost looked like they were glad it was over.That Mickey Mouse watch.
I liked that about you.Then I got to thinking about that Haiku by Basho at the beginning of your story.Winter downpour--even the monkeyneeds a raincoat.
Like a man wearing a Mickey Mouse watch.Nothing's ever simple as it looks, is it?
Say, looks like you could use a good Mickey Mouse watch for your collection.
This is the first book in the Elvis Cole series and the first book by the author that I have read.
The characters are not very well developed.We meet Elvis Cole in his office staring at his Pinocchio clock listening to Ellen Lang tell her tale of woe.
Janet Simon is Ellen's best friend and has brought her to Elvis's office to locate them because Ellen is weak and submissive.
Elvis and Janet don't hit if off but he somewhat reluctantly takes on the case.
We didn't get to meet Joe Pike when Ellen and Janet showed up at the office.
I started with Elvis Cole #13, which was actually Joe Pike #1.
As in the previous Crais book I read, Joe Pike is more interesting than Elvis Cole but in this one, less available.
I do like the observations about humanity, personal growth and finding the string to change that Crais writes into this book, as he did "The Watchman." Elivs and Joe Pike have a spirituality about them that makes their observations and "heart to heart" talks with the victims and other characters fun and enjoyable to read.I also applaud and cheer the growth his "victim" goes through as Crais wrote it.
Set in the Hollywood of the 1980s this feels a bit dated, but only because it was written then as the debut novel of screenwriter Robert Crais, who wrote scripts for Hill Street Blues and Miami Vice amongst others so it has that authentic 1980s feel about it.
When Cole takes on a job to find missing husband Mort and young son Perry for Ellen Lang, he expects it to be a simple case of a husband running away with his younger mistress but instead when Mort is found dead and the boy missing, the case gets a whole lot more complicated involving done very nasty characters from Hollywood's seamier side.
Having read several of the books and being "introed" to Elvis Cole, I (true to my usual form) went back and got the first volume.Pretty good book.
Pike in the first book I read told one of their client's that "Elvis thinks he's funny"...it's true, he does.
It's an enjoyable series about two diverse characters one (Elvis) who lives with a cantankerous cat, takes things with a grain of salt and manages a wise crack even as he's having his features forcibly rearranged and his ribs broken.
All the books of this series I've read so far I've enjoyed.Here Elvis has to suss out the truth about what happened to his client, her spouse and her son.

The start of the Elvis Cole series and supposedly a popular, well-done mystery.
This was bad.
The mystery wasn't that interesting, the female characters not very believable, and the hero is a dick--and I don't mean that like as a detective.
For example, he doesn't like his client's friend because she is apparently a strong woman who thinks her friend is wasting her time.
So Elvis, to get her to shut up, says, "I'd like to pour choclate on you and lick it off." Now, would anybody ever say that?
Yes.I think that is all you need to know.
(as pointed out by the OSC review)If you checked off five or more of these, you are definitely reading a hard-boiled/noir detective story.The only complaint I have is with Kindle, and not this book.
The Kindle application automatically opens the book to the beginning of the primary text -- skipping the cover, title page, table of contents, and any inscriptions.
Not so long ago I read my first Robert Crais book "the Two Minute Rule" and simply adored it.
I wanted to read more Robert Crais and so I started to read the Elvis Cole books in the right order and I'm glad I purchased the first three (so far).
This introduction to the Elvis Cole series is a highly entertaining read.
The outstanding characters make up for an average plot.
Cole & Pike are both very appealing men, who have gone through a lot and learned a lot in their previous career choices.
And now I have Elvis Cole!
That was a fun thriller with a couple of very memorable characters. I see Joe Pike has his own series & I'm intrigued. Luckily, I got the first 2 of his series with this book. Hopefully there won't be as many attempts at humor. They got rather flat after a while.The writing wasn't bad. Good action scenes, but I didn't appreciate all the road directions through L.A.. They didn't mean a thing to me. Maybe if I knew the area. As it was, they read like filler.All in all, it was fun.
Cole is (like Robert Parker's Spenser, who is his most obvious literary blood-brother) a lovable, wise-cracking detective who still believes in things like chivalry and justice.
He's also a tough motherf****r who won't blink when he has to shoot a man in the kneecap.
"The Monkey's Raincoat" starts off as a routine domestic case, in which a woman hires Cole to find out where her estranged husband disappeared to with their young nine-year-old son.
Cole thinks it's nothing more than a custody battle, but when the husband is found murdered with no sign of the missing son, things get serious quickly.
His main character is this Elvis Cole, a PI, with a sense of humour, with lightens the book and the reading.The reason for three stars, well after so many gripping, fast paced, tense and powerful stories of recent reads by David Baldacci, Simon Kernick, Lee Childs, Daniel Silva, Sharon Bolton, Karin Slaughter this was a little lightweight, no strong villains, no strong twists, no shocks, no brutal murders, no tension.Although I did like the comical parts, I am sure his other character Joe Pike is a little more serious, so I will try some more of his books later.Here I would like to mention my next book, a new author to me, and recommended by Simon Kernick, is Tom Bale, a British author and I am reading his book next called The Catch.Tom Bale is a member of my group " A Good Thriller " and will be doing a Q & A in the next 4-5 weeks.
Better than the first time around. I love these guys as much and in a different way than Spenser and Hawk. Spenser and Hawk have a tough guy relationship, but more funny than tough. Elvis and Joe have a one sided funny relationship, but both never give an inch when the sh!t hits the fan. I love Joe's arrows...always move forward! Great book and great series!
In any case, some detective, huh?Anyhow, Elvis is hired by shy, quiet Ellen Lang (or is it her slightly bossy friend, Janet Simon?
I can see how in the late 1980s when it was published how this book must have blown a breath of fresh air into a genre that had been done and done again, especially in LA.
I shot him in the face, then shoved Ellen through the kitchen and half carried her around the house and out onto the street.
I shoved Ellen into the Corvette, fired up, and ran over two garbage cans pulling away.
The Elvis Cole series got off to a highly entertaining start with The Monkey’s Raincoat.L.A. private detective Elvis Cole takes on the case of Ellen Lang, an emotionally paralyzed housewife convinced that her floundering husband has taken off with their young son.
What at first looks like a messy domestic squabble mushrooms into something a lot more dangerous, putting Elvis, his client and his enigmatic partner, John Pike, in the crossfire between some highly connected criminals and some law enforcement types they’re not sure they can trust.Robert Crais came up with a winning lead character in Elvis Cole and The Monkey’s Raincoat introduced readers to his world, circa the late ‘80s, in memorable fashion.
And like a lot of writers these days, Crais has not just stuck with one series/set of characters - rather, like Michael Connelly, some solo characters go on to form relationships with other characters from other originally stand-alone novels.The Monkey's Raincoat is something I can go back and re-read because it shows me how an author can use humour and not at the expense of the storyline.I would recommend this book to anyone who likes their LA PIs to be a cut above the rest of the pack, and although the series is getting a little dated in respect to the new/up-coming generation, like the Alphabet novels from Sue Grafton, if you savvy the timeline, then the story is a wonderful mystery with nothing hidden from the reader - it's just how you put the jigsaw together that counts.
I thoroughly enjoyed it. Elvis Cole is such an entertaining private eye. He is ruthless and funny at the same time. His partner is Joe Pike, silent but deadly. They are hired to find Ellen Lang’s husband and son. Drugs are a major part of the story, plus murder and kidnapping. Really exciting book.
I never believed in UFOs, ET sightings or abductions.
It is obvious that alien technology has been used on two people.
First on Robert Crais.
He had bio-engineered author creative brain cell enhancement augmentation.
He is just too damn good of a writer for there to be any other plausible explanation.
So I have to go with space aliens.And Cathy DuPont had alien "bookworm" viral injections.
How else would she know I would instantly love this author?
She sent me this book to read because I couldn't get a copy anywhere.
So either her tastes transcend both time and space OR ...
space aliens.
My first Crais novel and a pretty good one, although not as great as I had hoped. His PI Elvis Cole is certainly charismatic and funny, but kinda seemed like an updated Philip Marlowe at times, but Marlowe’s funnier and cooler. His partner Joe Pike actually was the most interesting character, but that’s probably because I love that hard-as-nails vigilante archetype so much. The case itself had enough twists and turns to keep me turning the pages, though, and I never figured out the ending before it was explained.
I'd originally read this a few years ago, but had missed the exploits of Elvis and Joe, so decided to revisit the series. This was a good start, but I found that the quality improves over time.
While all the ones I have read hold up well as stand-alone stories, I somehow feel weird about not starting at the beginning - it's a kind of reading OCD with me I suppose.The Monkey's Raincoat is not over-laden with background about Elvis or Joe Pike.
It's just a great detective story with plenty of action and plenty of chuckle-to-yourself-so-everyone-wonders-what-you're-reading humour.Quite simply, the characters are brilliant.
It's not purely about the characters either, this is a great LA mystery story with a good plot and written at a pace that keeps you glued to the pages.Shame I've left it so long between Elvis books.
Didn't love it, but didn't hate it either.Elvis Cole is a PI who is hired by Ellen Lang to find her husband and son.
This case isn't as straightforward as Elvis thought, as he begins to enter a very tangled drug world.
It is around 230 pages, which I found was perfect to get me involved with the story and continued my content with the pace and the outcome of the novel.
I don't know if I enjoy the main character, Elvis.
I like the shortness of the novels so I'll be continuing with the series.
Jocular because Elvis Cole is that type of guy who thinks that the earth will stop spinning if he doesn't crack a joke every other sentence.
Unfortunately by doing so, the rhythm of the story relaxes considerably - not a good thing when it comes to a mystery novel.I try to stay away from quoting, but in this case I think it's necessary to understand my complaint about the writing technique and the listlessness.
One might think that his arrival would speed up the pace, but instead we are given this:"She say this guy Dom's a matador?""Yes." The pancakes were good.
