https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56454.Strengths_Finder_2_0
Starts with a cool idea: instead of spending time trying to get better at things you have no talent for, why not work at being great at things you have a natural affinity for?
Instead, we should spend our efforts in line with our talents and become really great at them.The book outlines 34 themes, or areas of strength that Gallup has identified after looking at millions of profiles.
It also gives you access to an online assessment that will magically tell you your top five strengths.
If I wanted my kids to be able to use Strengths Finder, I'd have to shell out more money and buy copies of the book for each of them.
Why on earth would I want multiple copies of this nigh-useless book lying around?Moreover, the test itself was exceedingly non-specific, the supposed strengths listed were just generic overviews of broad personality traits, and the "Ideas for Action" it offered were really quite vague.
For example:"Wise forethought can remove obstacles before they appear.""Trust your insights, and use them to ensure the success of your efforts.""Find people who like to talk about the same issues you do.
They have specific suggestions for each strength which includes which kinds of folks you should pair up with and how others will react to your strength.
For instance my top one is "Ideation" - a love for and facility with ideas - and it suggests that some folks might not follow my leaping train of thought so I'll need to connect the dots for them.
That's good to remember.I love the whole mindset of it - it's a way to celebrate diversity and understand that we all have different strengths and we need to work together so we can benefit from things we don't have and vice versa.
Strengths Finder 2.0 is the latest edition in a series of books written over the years to help people discover and spend time working with their very best skills.Key points to take away: * A life spent focusing on improving our weaknesses leads to dissatisfaction and mediocrity * Spending time doing what we love and are best at is what drives success * We cannot be great at everything, so get over it * Everyday should be filled doing what one believes are their true gifts * Opposing strengths can lead to the strongest partnershipsThose of you who have heard of the Gallop Organization, know how deep and research driven their ideas are.
The premise seems good, but I got this from the library and couldn't take the online assessment. So then I considered coughing up the $$ to buy the Kindle version, but the electronic editions apparently don't contain an access code to take the test. You also can't buy an access code on the web site to take the test. I'm bothered by this. I have to question how meaningful and relevant the results of the paid assessment would be when Gallup clearly has no idea how to make information available in a meaningful, relevant fashion.
Yeah, this isn't that kind of book.I've taken Myers-Briggs Personality-type tests before (I'm an ISTJ) so the evaluation tool you take at the Gallup site is pretty similar.
And worth the purchase of the book because that gives you the code to take the test to find your top five strengths (check in the back of the book to make sure no one's stolen the code before you buy it).
But there's nothing in the assessment spit out by the website or anywhere in the book about how your strengths interact with one another.
Or another manager's propensity to treat the booksellers like dirt because of his own issues.Maybe they'll have to read Strengths-Based Leadership to figure that out.
At Page 29 you read "Parting Thoughts." This is basically where the book ends and you're pointed to a website where you must register to take a test to help you identify your strengths.
Do not buy this book if you want to share it and compare what you've learned with a friend.
I also thought about donating the book to my public library system since it's a hardcover copy, but I know it would be completely useless to anyone checking it out.
Essentially, you're paying $24.95 to take a test, not for a book.
I read this book to show my former boss that I was willing to work with her in her efforts to find out how all of her "beans'" strengths could mesh (which could only happen after everyone knew what strengths they had to contribute and when each bean had shared his/her strengths with the rest of the team).
By the way, I worked at Starbucks.I like the organization of the book, the detailed information about strengths, and even the online test you take to find out what strengths you have.
I had taken the test already and been provided with the supplementary material, so this doesn't have a lot to add except for advice on how to work with people with the strengths you don't have.
I read the suggestions for my boss's strength, and I was like, "Preach!"Other than that, I found StrengthsFinder to be far more useful and practical than older tests like the Myers-Briggs, in fact it helped me see a change I needed to make in my own career, just gave me clarity I really needed.
I love this book. I pick it up often and re-discover things about myself and my peers. Essential for anyone working on interpersonal relationships, or just trying to do their jobs better.
This book was required reading for a Strengths Finder class I took at work.
My top 5 strengths are: Input (I collect - knowledge and stuff), Intellection (I think about stuff), Learner (I learn from all this stuff I've collected and thought about), Analytical (well, duh, that was a no brainer Ms. Number Balancer/Data Reconciler) and Consistency (wanting everything to be FAIR).In the class, we of course compared strengths.
Learned about how people work together.
The end result was that we should look for a job that plays to our strengths, not necessarily waste a lot of time trying to improve our weaknesses.When I think of new career paths, I play around with reptile pet sitter or hazmat crime scene cleaner.
Generally helpful and intriguing but the book on its own didn't entirely sell me. The more personalized test came a little closer.Slightly skeptical that my number one strength came up as strategy.Also, strengths aren't supposed to shift but I took the test twice and within a year four of my top five strengths changed. Granted, I went through a lot this past year. But still, doesn't that seem rather dramatic considering this test purports to measure your generally unchanging personality? BUT critiques aside, a useful test that I appreciated and will use going forward.
Took the test and discovered the 5 strengths that I should be leveraging on.
Several times during the test, I did wonder whether my responses were really accurate.
Yeah, I signed up to take the test.
But the results and action plan available online were mere regurgitations of the book, spliced and put together according to the results!
I do not see any added value of signing up on the site other than taking the test and the results and action plan to me seemed like an anti-climax.Did the results feel accurate?
I picked up this book to discover more about myself.
You do not necessarily shy away from meeting new people but you do derive a great deal of pleasure and strength from being around your close friends.
I am only interested in having a very small group of extremely close friends.
You are delighted when you discover beneath the complex surface an elegantly simple concept to explain why things are the way they are.
An idea is a connection.
And so you discover your future one choice at a time.
I don't think the description sounds flighty and wishy-washy.
But this is also me and from my 'Maximizer' side I don't see this strength as having any kind of downside.
More like a reference & you must take the test for it to be useful!After reading the first book in this topic, "Now, Discover Your Strengths", I was rejuvenated.
Despite the accuracy of my 5 themes, I wanted to challenge the fool-proofness of the test.Second, I wanted to delve more deeply into practical applications of my strengths.Funny enough, things hardly go as planned.
What would it be like to know your partner's strengths?
Would opposite strengths be likely to weaken or strengthen the relationship?
Would similar partners be compatible or boring?As for the book, it is more of a reference than something you read cover to cover.
The real meat of the book is actually online, where the assessment instrument itself resides.
The instrument's engaging enough, but it's got one glaring flaw: it gave me a result that doesn't fit me well, and it offers no recourse.
All I can do is go back to the book and hunt through the various strengths to find one that fits better.What's the point of an assessment instrument that's less accurate than a self-directed review of all the possible outcomes?
The strengths themselves are worth a read for pure intellectual value, I suppose, but only if you can get the book for free.
I, personally, loved this book. I have a tendency to focus on my weaknesses and ignore my strengths. I appreciate that this book showed me where I am strong and how I can utilize those to my benefit! I also liked how it offered my complementary workmates. I work in team environment and we read this together. I am excited to learn their strengths and for us to grow as a team!
Read this for a work committee. You get to take a test which identifies your top five themes. You are then provided an action plan to use these themes to capitalize on your strengths in the workplace. I'm a Scorpio.
Una batería psicométrica disfrazada de libro con un precio de lista de treinta dólares. Menos mal que fue tarea leerlo. Una estafa
I believe this book's philosophy makes for a happier and more productive life--that it's more rewarding to spend time honing my strengths than trying to improve my weaknesses.
Instead, I came away from this book and the related test feeling like I was pretty well "pegged" and that I had a toolbox of strengths which I can build upon and explore more, both professionally and personally.I read StrengthsFinder 2.0 in 2012 for the second time, as my workplace had all employees read the book and take the assessment.
No where was I given the impression that for the book to of any use at all I would have to register with a website to take a test.
the book arrived and I started reading First a short chapter extolling the value of understanding your strengths briefly mentioning the online test.
(If you are buying this make sure you have a new printed version apparently it's not in the kindle version.)So then the test - takes about 30mins but you have to register on the site first - so yet another password, like I need more of those.
Seems a bit like a ploy to me...).Second biggest complaint: They only tell you your top 5 strengths.I get that the whole premise is to focus on your strengths, which means being blissfully unaware of where you scored low.
Certain strengths were almost hilarious to read about because it seemed like the authors were really struggling to put a positive spin on what many would see as a flaw.
Adaptability (I was a bit surprised that this showed up, until I read the chapter.
Lựa chọn quyển sách này để đọc vào ngày đầu năm mới với hy vọng sẽ tự hiểu rõ bản thân mình hơn - biết mình mạnh ở điểm nào, yếu ở đâu, mọi người quanh mình thì sao, lựa chọn công việc thế nào sẽ phù hợp với sở trường của bản thân (trong các bản CV, lúc nào cũng có kiểu tự nhận xét điểm mạnh/điểm yếu của bản thân, và nó khiến tôi tự băn khoăn với câu trả lời).Quan điểm cơ sở của cuốn sách này là mỗi người sinh ra đã có những tài năng tiềm ẩn riêng biệt, nếu biết phát huy sẽ trở thành thế mạnh và đạt được nhiều thành tựu to lớn hơn so với việc đầu tư cùng lượng thời gian đó vào khắc phục yếu điểm.
Recommend for everyone, who really wants to know what you are. This is a great tool for self-assessment. Furthermore, it also recommends what you do to fully bring the best out of your potential. FYI. Facebook is applying this one. See below:Facebook hires smart people independent of available job openings. After hiring someone it likes, engineer or business operative, Facebook will ID this person's talents with something called the Clifton StrengthsFinder, and then create a job using that information.Read more: http://articles.businessinsider.com/2...
This small book is a very quick read, but it comes with a sealed code which allows access to testing on the website strengthsfinder.com.
The majority of this book is descriptions of the strengths themselves, and not very useful without taking the test yourself.
Strangely, the test only reveals the your top five strengths.
Seems to me that knowing your bottom five weaknesses would be at least as useful.
The test itself had too many ambiguous questions for me to take the results seriously, but the results weren't outlandish.
According to the test, my strengths are (in order):  Strategic 
Learner 
Helpful. This is not so much a book as an assistant to the on-line tool. I'm still thinking about whether or not I got an accurate reading on my top five because this, like most personality tests, is highly subjective and there is always room for self-fulfilling prophecy or misunderstood questions. Still, it is very simple and easy to use.
You'll enjoy the exposure that comes with independence (e.g. investment management)1.2 Your reputation is important to you, so decide what it should be (your "personal branding") and tend to it in the smallest detail e.g. earn a designation that will add to your credibility (e.g. CFA, Wharton MBA), write an article that will give you visibility, or volunteer to speak in front of a group who will admire your achievements (e.g. TED talks)1.3 Share your dreams and goals with your family/closest friends & colleagues.
Be sure to clarify expectations and boundaries so that each person can feel ownership for his or her particular tasks without stepping on each other’s toes.4.10 Responsible individuals like to know they have “delivered” on their commitments, so create metrics and goals to gauge how effectively you meet your obligations.
Picked this one from hundreds of career/personal development books advised by my supervisor in the period when I was forced to take some really serious decisions and find out what I should do further.
The idea of finding your strength(s) and work on them is not new, but here we have simple schemes and ways to understand them and develop.
However, there're so many clear strengths I can relate my colleagues and friends to, so I believe many will find this book useful at certain stage of their lives.
The whole point of this book is to provide a unique access code to take the online assessment.
The first 31 pages are an advertisement for the assessment.
The rest of the book contains a brief overview of each of the 34 "themes", which could have just been accessed on their website.
It is not grounded in actual Psychological research (though they throw around Psychology words like DSM and Personality to try to legitimize their assertions).
These 34 traits (like Intellection, Futuristic, and Arranger) are claimed to be innate characteristics that a person has and cannot develop past his or her natural capacity.
I read this for an HR Management class. I don't know that I learned anything brand new but it did clarify some thoughts for me. I'd love to get my whole team to take the survey and share in a team building exercise (my Input strength, I suspect, drives this desire). I love that it emphasizes building natural strengths and talents instead of the familiar corporate America "stretch" and "areas for improvement" we've all been subjected to over the years. It's a quick read that gave me a lot to think about. (<-- intellection strength 😉)
