https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1487623.Os_Cus_de_Judas
The Portuguese VietnamWhile the USA was engaged during the 1960's and 70's in its insane war in Vietnam, Portugal was digging proportionately even deeper graves in its African colony of Angola (one and one half million men went to Africa, from a population of ten million; almost 80,000 died on all sides).
Lobo Antunes was a doctor conscripted to help reduce the number of coffins needed.Military discipline doesn't mitigate the emotional immaturity, frustration and fear of young soldiers, it condenses extreme emotions for periodic explosive release.
This is the story of a medical doctor who was drafted into Portugal's military to tend the wounded in the war against colonial Angola in the 1970s.
We hear only his voice as he drones on in horrific and painful detail, that reads like poetry.It is a story of war and its horrors.
197This is the poetry of a man who hates war.
By showing us what is lost, he is showing what he had and what Angola had or could have had were it not for the 'sons-of-bitches' and their colonial stupidity.This is where I could go on a long rant on the damage done by colonial attitudes that continue to this day.
“Sitting in the cabin of a truck beside the driver, cap pulled low over my eyes, an endless cigarett
«Ένα εικονοκλαστικό μυθιστόρημα, μια «κλινική» περιγραφή και μια σαρωτική σάτιρα που εξηγεί γιατί η επανασύσταση των Γαριφάλων ξεκίνησε μέσα από τη λάσπη της Αγκόλας.» - Liberation.Ένα μυθιστόρημα με πολιτικές προεκτάσεις, καυστικό προς την αποιοκρατία της Πορτογαλίας στην Αγκόλα.
Ο τρόπος γραφής πολύ ασυνήθιστος για μένα.
Περιγραφές που χάνονται στο λαβύρινθο μιας επιτηδευμένης γλώσσας, που τελικά κουράζουν και αποσυντονίζουν τον αναγνώστη ως προς το κεντρικό θέμα.
Θεωρώ πως είχε τη δυνατότητα, να μην αδικήσει τον εαυτό του.
Θα ήθελα να διαβάσω και κάτι άλλο δικό του για μια πιο ολοκληρωμένη άποψη.
Άλλωστε αφορμή στάθηκε μια συνέντευξη, αν δεν κάνω λάθος, του Harold Bloom, ότι τον θεωρεί ανώτερο του Saramago στην Πορτογαλία.
Вече на 31-2 я прочетох на български и ефектът беше същият.Аз я предложих - настойчиво - за поредицата на Колибри, в която излезе, и с това съм много по-горда, отколкото с куп други неща, които съм вършила през живота си, дори да не са се получавали никак зле.
Сега неописуемата Даринка Кирчева е превела втора книга от него по моя препоръка ("Опознаване на ада") и това е второ нещо, с което съм страхотно горда, нищо че го осъществяват други хора, не аз.
What is true is palpable: the mossy sex from a woman but also her leg severed by a mine, hoses air...Lobo Antunes, doctor lost in a dirty war, sick overripe fruit of this company benchmarks transcribe in a spoof of the holy sacraments, reminded me of some idiot who would strangely reappeared in the 70s in Salazar's Portugal...Great moment of reading that I could not advise to all: the style is syncopated and you must know how to dive into a chapter without being able to catch its breath at the risk of being completely lost (in this ass of Judas ...)
Dear senhor Antunes, Your comforts are few, your humour dark but the words you say make my heart strip naked and dance in the sunlight of the fading day.
You talk beyond exhaustion, stumbling through the depths of memory and drunkenness, through the abattoir of colonialist mayhem, of wasted villages and terrified soldiers who stare out into the dark, yet you are still able to breathe beauty into words, so sharply contrasting with the emotions your story is intended to elicit...
Life dissolves slowly and so do I, like the remnant of a sweet on the curled shell of your loquacious tongue...
margaret jull costa also translated the fat man and infinity, a fantastic collection of essays and short stories that demonstrates another side to lobo antunes' many literary talents.maragaret jull costa writes in the introduction, "the title of this novel in portuguese is os cus de judas, 'cu de judas' being a slang term for any very remote, desolate place- 'the back of beyond,' 'the middle of nowhere,' 'the boonies'- but literally it means 'judas's asshole.'" the book's original title (more so than the land at the end of the world) is both a literal and figurative allusion to the book's harrowing narrative.
There are similes and metaphors absolutely everywhere, all over the pages, like Antunes is frantically reaching around in a wild jazz solo or modern dance in order to desperately convey his point.
I feel like Antunes metaphor-izes with wild abandon throughout the whole book.
I think that Antunes was attempting to make a point here - that war is dehumanizing to those who participate in it, and that they then dehumanize in turn - but we are so inextricably trapped in the narrators head that it just plays like an emotional horror show.

The vague, non-spoiler sketch: a semi-autobiographical young Portuguese doctor goes off to war in Angola and comes home to find that he cannot shrug off the horrors and simply continue prosaic modern life.This is material that should move me.
And here's why: I couldn't stomach the non-stop, gratuitous, and sometimes totally inane similes and metaphors.
I admit that I haven't fought in a war.
But I don't know because I've read other books about war that have torn me to shreds.
And I don't think it's the Englishing either because some of the figurative comparisons were quite good.
And not in a good way.
A tightly-packed bomb built of beautiful metaphors. Brutal at times, very sad at others. Highly recommended.
Antonio Lobo Antunes’ The Land at the End of the World may well be the best war novel written by a leftist psychiatrist of the Freudian school.
The unnamed narrator (like Antunes) was a medic during Portugal’s war in Angola.
The whole A-hole thing is a deliberate thread throughout the book, and it’s meant to be an indictment of Portuguese society, which was a fascist one at the time the narrator went to war (in the late 1960s).
But being a Freudian, Antunes spends a great deal of time pondering other things, other openings.
Ma mentre tutti si interessavano alle scale di legno in stile gotico fiorito, io sono stata attratta dal libraio, con il quale ho iniziato io in italiano, lui in portoghese, una discussione su Saramago e in particolare Cecità che per lui è un libro cult e per me invece il simbolo della senilità (per usare un eufemismo) della letteratura europea.
Con questo espediente e con una scrittura letteralmente satura di aggettivi e di metafore divertenti e mai banali Antunes riesce a intrattenere senza pesantezza al punto che la ferocia di certi episodi accaduti in Angola colpisce a tradimento, del tutto inattesa nell’atmosfera quasi ironica di certe pagine.
Quella che è stata l'ultima guerra coloniale europea, contro le ex-colonie africane, costituì per il Portogallo una sorta di Vietnam, una guerra assurda e non voluta dall'opinione pubblica, nonostante la propaganda fascista, un dramma nazionale che provocò oltre novemila morti, tutti tra i giovanissimi arruolati, e interrotto solo dalla sollevazione degli ufficiali il 25 aprile del 1974, la cosiddetta “Rivoluzione dei garofani”.
Un lungo monologo, un racconto lungo una notte che il protagonista fa ad una donna bevendo assieme in un bar, ed ancora nella notte mentre si recano a casa di lui per consumare un rapporto.
Of a young man who is unhappy, who is regarded by his family with a sense of disappointment, who is scooped into the medical arm of the Portuguese colonial army in Angola, where he loses his affection for his wife and gains an affection for the idea of his estranged children, where he is tasked with repairing bodies broken in a war that nobody who fights it wants to fight, where he must watch as a secret police force break down human beings into small husks of themselves before forcing them to build their own graves, and from which he must return to Portugal and attempt to fit back in.
Antonio Lobo Antunes, just does not want to go to Angola to fight a war which has no meaning for him or for anyone else.
You see the colonial war in Angola through the eyes of the doctor Antonio Lobo Antunes.
For honestly who cares for illiterate, black people who in the eyes of many amount to nothing.
When Lobo Antunes returns to Portugal, life is never the same for him, nobody in Portugal respects these soldiers, slowly he loses everything, his marriage just meanders and ends, he sees his daughters once a week, he takes up drinking so that 'it will never be morning again' and has encounters with strange women in bars, just a sad beaten man.
Смаяните съседи отдолу ще сметнат, че съм довел вкъщи два дебелокожи звяра, които се ръфат взаимно с викове на омраза и родилни вопли, и кой знае дали тази новост няма да пробуди у тях отдавна заспали желания и да ги накара да се заклещят като парчета от японски пъзел, които е невъзможно да се разделят освен с безкрайното търпение на хирургически скалпел ..."*"Ако бях жираф, щях безмълвно да ви обичам, да ви гледам изотгоре над мрежата с унинието на кран, щях да ви обичам с несръчната любов на прекалено високите, докато жвакам дъвка от някое умислено листо, да ви ревнувам от мечките, мравоядите, птицечовките, какадутата и крокодилите и щях с мъка да спусна шия чрез скрипеца от сухожилия, за да сгуша глава в пазвата ви и да се умилквам, разтреперан от нежност."*"Би трябвало всички да носим тиранти, та душата ни да не се смъква толкова в петите, съветвал приятелите си Видали, ...
Palavras, frases, pensamentos que vão se alinhavando, cosendo, aglutinando em livre associação mas com uma direção muito bem pensada, elaborada e onírica.Sensações, pensamento rizomático lúdico, sinestesia, lembranças, dúvidas de si mesmo e sobre o outro.
Não é uma leitura simples, mas extremamente prazerosa e única.
Deviam ler os livros um do outro às escondidas!Eu não necessito fazê-lo!Seja para amar, seja para odiar, leia Lobo Antunes, no mínimo uma experiência inusitada.
Instead, Antunes is all about mood and tone and stream-of-consciousness.Ostensibly about a Portuguese doctor serving his country's colonial ambitions in a war against rebels in Angola, this is as much about the good doctor's head, his dreams and nightmares, his on-going conversation with the woman he loves, complete with the physical descriptions that make his escapist fantasies quite real.Interestingly, the chapters are not numbered but lettered, from A to Z.
And Antunes earns his letters in the anti-war book annals of literature.
Same old, same old--no matter the country, no matter the time in history.
Sadly…“True to the family prophesy, I had become a man: a kind of sad, cynical greed made up of lascivious despair, egotism, and an eagerness to hide from myself had replaced forever the fragile pleasure of childish joy, of open, unreserved laughter, embalmed in purity, and which at night, when I’m walking home down a deserted street, I seem to hear, echoing at my back like a mocking cascade.”Antunes, a psychiatrist, who himself served as a doctor in Angola in the 1970s tells this tale of a medic whose experience in the war changes him forever.Through an ample dose of magical metaphors and poetic phrasing Antunes’ creative imagination can, at times, dazzle and overwhelm the effects of this war on both the African populace and the soldiers who are held in check by Salazar’s secret police.
Навярно професията му е източник на вдъхновение - ако ще и само под формата на размисли за живота и човешките емоции, страхове, препъвания, преплитания, които на свой ред раждат плашещо добре написаната, могъща на моменти литература.Този човек може да бъде брилянтен поет, но е избрал прозата и може би затова не можах да го обикна напълно.
Усещат се болезнените гънки на този свят – далечен все още за мен.
За давене.А книгата е уж диалог (героят видимо говори на някого по цялото протежение, целия гръбнак на текста), но все пак на места звучи като досаден монолог-оплакване на мъж, захапал опашката си, неспособен да се отърси от Салазар, от Луанда, от войната, от кръвта, от смъртта.Но прочетете тази книга.
The idea of a decrepit oil kleptocracy that was the last outpost of the Portuguese Empire, which went from being a particularly ugly colonial government to a flashpoint in the Cold War to a failed state.
I've read Kapuscinski on the subject, and Paul Theroux, and it was time to give Antunes a try, seeing as how vaunted the man is in the world of Lusophone writing.One nightmare after another is how it goes, each more hallucinatory than the next, like a Portuguese version of Apocalypse Now. The original title is "Judas' Asshole," which they really should have kept.
Now go forth and read.
Confesso: Só li este livro agora, foi uma descoberta relativamente tardia. Mas ainda bem que assim foi, porque estou convencida de que hoje lhe dei muito mais valor do que teria dado quando tinha vinte e poucos anos. Que linguagem expressiva, que capacidade extraordinária para fazer descrições, para captar a alma das pessoas, que ironia viperina, que sofrimento… Um dos melhores romances sobre a guerra colonial. Se não o conhecem, leiam-no. Lobo Antunes no seu melhor!An extraordinary book about war and its consequences in a man's life, written in a beautifully poetic language. An absolute must read!

Awesome. Writing a full--and much more articulate--review later, but I want to say that after three meh Antonio Lobo Antunes translations ("Fat Man & Infinity," "Knowledge of Hell," "What Can I Do When Everything's On Fire?") this comes like a breath of fresh Celine-inspired air. Yeah. It's cynical and dark and moving and honest and about the Portuguese Colonial Wars and a man sitting in a bar telling his sad tale to a silent woman he ends up seducing. Seriously, full review later. One that emphasizes the despairing humor that makes Antunes so damn good.
Inspired by my Goodread friend David's great reviews for two other books by Antunes, it's time to spend some words for this one, because I feel it is one of these readings that deserve a special mention.Being the first one I have tried by Lobo Antunes, "The Land at the End of the World" was this year's apocalypse so far.
Demanding and the same time elegant, a great book, possibly the best thing I have read this year so far.

Full of rich analogies, a man destroyed by a needless war in Angola speaks to an unknown woman about his experiences and how he, as with many who go to war, lost his life and now lives in darkness. A book that is a monologue. It tells of one and a half million Portuguese men who went to war and when it was all over a series of civil wars then started. Pointless.A unique book on the senseless wars we seem to have.
dear god. he's a magician of vivid images, flicking through a stream of postcards for fleeting display in the reader's brain, as he recounts the life's tale of a portuguese man ravaged by his military service in angola. i should mark this 'non-fiction.' his writing (& the translation) is astounding. some lines and details are wicked scathing, and some beautiful, twisted, brilliant. ultimately, it is of the horrors of war.
