https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46945.Requiem_for_a_Dream
First published in 1978, seven years after the start of the War on Drugs, Requiem for a Dream tracks the course of four lives as they’re destroyed by addiction.
So, too, do the book’s environments become more and more deprived of hope as the narrative jerks forward toward its bleak end, in which the characters lose all control over their lives and are left at the mercy of a callous society.
Selby wrote the novel after the stagflation and political corruption that characterized Nixon’s administration had thoroughly deflated the idealism of the ‘60s.
Am I the only person in the world who thought this book was terrible?
From the Amazon reviews, apparently so.
The book is all narrative and dialouge.
In other words, all telling with virtually no "showing." And what's up with cramming everyone's dialogue into the same paragraph so you can't always tell who is speaking?
Or for goodness sake, use quotation marks.
And can you get any more pretentious than being too good to use an apostraphe when you write "youre" or "Im?" What's wrong with you're and I'm?Anyway, I'll never bother to read anything by this writer again.
♪♫♪When I grow upFresh and cleanNumber one chickWhen I step out on the scene ♪♫♪ Not sure why this song kept on popping in my head while reading this 1978 novel by Hubert Selby, Jr, Requiem for a Dream.
♪♫♪When I grow upBe on TVPeople know meBe on magazines ♪♫♪ There is Sara's only son, Harold or Harry and his girlfriend Marion, who, aside from making love twice a day, injecting their veins with cocaine and smoke grass and cigarettes in between, dream of putting up a coffee shop where Marion's paintings (she loves to paint and dream of become a famous painter someday) can be put on display.
♪♫♪When I grow upBe on TVPeople know meBe on magazines♪♫♪But Harold's and Ty's way of achieving this dream: drug pushing.
"Do drugs and this is how you could end up!" And, while that's valid to an extent, and the same could be said about the book, I think the movie almost loses sight of the fact addiction is a disease, it's as much a mental need as a physical one, and it's not just a result of an action (like doing drugs or drinking alcohol).
The movie touches on it briefly - a little scene where Harry and Marion are talking about Sara's TV habit, for instance, but for the most part it just shows the most dramatic and horrifying aspects and kind of doesn't have time for the everyday problems of addiction.
But the characters who are unhappy with their earthy lives and tired of their Nine-To-Five routine, take a shortcut to reach their seemingly unreachable dream with frequent injections of the fleeting dope, with a hope to prolong their sedated solitude which makes them feel themselves… and as a whole.
Some fall for the other kind of oblivious addiction for fame which, they think, might save them from their boring loneliness and dull insignificance, gleefully trying to stash all their sorrows into the unreal lives of TV actors and unconsciously allowing the reality show anchors to chase them.
But, the day-dreaming ends soon and the TV stops; TV actors vanish and the anchor is no longer waving at them.
Selby’s novels are transgressive masterpieces with a bigness of heart and a strange, spiritual tenderness.
The epigraph to this book alludes to Selby’s faith (in God) and I can see him writing about these doomed dope fiends with the compassion of a pastor tending to his flock.
This heartbreaking novel follows the decline of four distinct Americans—young working-class white male Jew, young middle-class white female Jew, young working-class black non-Jew, and elderly widow.
Selby’s style is a rush of exacting S-o-C sentences, staccato pops and blips, and more elegant art-patches whenever Marion is the focus.
Now we live in an age where people will  review your Kindle novel for five pounds.
“Requiem por un sueño” nos muestra los caminos entrelazados de cuatro personajes incapaces de tomar las riendas de sus vidas, Harry, su amigo Tyrone, su novia Marion y su madre Sara, que acapara los toques humorísticos de la novela y es también la protagonista de la historia más triste de todas.
Drogas y esperanza les irán alejando más y más de la solución a medida que les van distanciando de la realidad, de la vida, de ellos mismo, hasta hacer de todo algo irreconocible.
Although I'd seen the film before I read this book and knew the fate of the characters, I was still following their paths with such anxiety and hope.
It's an account of people who dream big but lose much bigger.It follows four characters in the Bronx.
Sarah's son Harry, along with his best friend Tyrone and girlfriend Marion, are meanwhile doing some serious summer partying.
Harry and Tyrone begin dealing heroin (plotting to score the pure stuff), and bringing in big bucks at first until the supply and demand of the streets catches up with them in the following winter months.
And so, since nobody really knows if the Dream is dead or not, anybody is free to try it out.What makes it better than the film (if this was ever debatable), is the story-line and the stories behind the characters.
Due to my bad memory, I can hardly remember the story in the film, I got stuck on some recurring images and that's pretty much it.The book was written 30 years ago, but you wouldn't notice that.
Well, probably if it had been recently written, it would have involved some computers or iPods :).
What is it that keeps such people alive?What's the reason for them to make it through day after day of emptiness, stuck as they are in the roles life seems to have chosen for them once and for all - the lazy no-good, the girl haunted by insecurity and wasted potential, the black youth doomed by the hopelessness of his very origins, and the sad woman aging in an old flat and talking to her fridge, unable to discern between her favourite tv shows and the troubles of real life (until her son steals her tv set in order to get money for junk, that is).
I think Selby made this scene verge on the comical to ease us into the despair and depravity waiting in the following pages.I read a lot so reading about drugs is not new or scandalous to me, but this was written as if I, the reader, should be well versed in Heroin.
I didn't have an understanding of most of the terms associated with the drug that Harry (the boy in the opening scene) Tyrone, and Marion were in love with.
As I continued to read I began to identify with the Heroin addicts as well because Selby made it clear that addiction is addiction.
The book is simply too challenging, I think, to people's basic beliefs and its critique is too accurate and true.Selby is a writer who never ever turns away from his subject matter and who never ever lies.
His point is to show that the materialistic values of suburbia and of television rest on the shattered lives of an underclass, that those values and goods are antithetical to real human relations and that the lifestyle is not really achievable.It is a world where someone's whole life including their sanity and identity can be destroyed for the chance of appearing on a quiz show.Selby is a deeply Christian writer.
Today, I finished one such story.I’ve heard talk about the film Requiem for a Dream for several years now, how it’s considered one of the most disturbing and hopeless movies of all time.Sounds fun, right?Due to the hype, I decided to check out the novel off of which the film is based.PremiseHubert Selby Jr.’s 1978 book of the same title has what sounds like a simple plot: people get addicted to drugs, and it’s bad.
The movie has always seemed an art form, the perfect and in-your-face warning to stay off the drugs, kids, they're just no good.
I was beyond excited to finally read the book that turned into such a (at least to me...) well-done movie.
I felt sympathy for them all and by the end had warmed to them more, but it took too long for me to get there.Overall the story truly is excellent - the characters aren't special people, but they're not bad.
Requiem was my first Selby, Jr. read, and it definitely impressed me.
The writing style is his own, and every character's personality was so visual and real.
Is it weird to sympathize and feel bad for a drug addict?
Harry, Sara, Tyrone, and Marion, the four main characters, were all my favorite.
They were each their own character, and they all worked so well together.
I could hear their voices in my head because of the way each is written.I wish I could say more about how much I love this book.
Requiem for a Dream was my first Hubert Selby, Jr. read.
“For weeks Tyrone thought he was going to die any minute, and there were also times when he was afraid he wasnt going to die.” Somehow after watching the movie the book is bearable but still pretty heartbreaking.
It is a great book if you have the time to actually read it , it's not a book that can be read lightly.
My best advice is: If you don't like the first pages Odds are, you won't like it at all.“Eventually we all have to accept full and total responsibility for our actions, everything we have done, and have not done.”
His characters are real: the widow, hooked on tv, obsessed with getting thin, becomes addicted to diet pills which were her vehicle towards a descent to madness (with a little help from an incompetent and corrupt physician); her only son, a junkie, his girlfriend, his buddy and his own girlfriend--all with their heroin-addled brains; their delusions that they are in control of their lives; the demonic power the drug has on them.
Each character speaks differently and you have to get used to their way of speaking as the author doesn't use punctuation marks and end sentences with 'Harry replied' or 'Marian said.' It is a fresh style of reading.
I happen to like disturbing, but if you do not, or are highly sensitive, don't read this book.
I also like that for as timeless as the film was (could be modern day, could be the 1970's), the book was very much a time-piece for Brooklyn.This book takes its reader on the roller coaster ride of the rise and fall of the characters dreams, whether it's losing a little weight to fit into a special dress, or stashing away money to open a coffee shop, and falling prey to vicious addictions.
With occasional heroin use, the characters are not concerned about heroin sickness, their sex drive is off the roof and they're way too in love with each other (yes, that's you, Harry and Marion), for the novel to try and depict a realistic narrative on heroin usage.
It is truly incredible how Selby managed to paint an unrealistic, in my eyes, image of happiness, only to battle it with the most realistic description of the withering away of human will.
When it comes to futility, Sara Goldfarb was the epitome of it (I don't want to spoil anything, but just know that no one is saved).
UPDATE "On acid stars you're getting there"-HoleBAD MOVE.Requiem For A Dream follows the downward trajectory of lives of four people in 1980's living in Bronx.
There's Sara, the empty nester, TV addict, obese (feeling obsolete??) living alone in the shadow of the happy life she once shared with her son Harry and late husband Seymour.
Harry and Marion want to start a business while Tyrone wants to break free from the shackles of a ghettoed life.
Yes, the book was difficult and at times I had trouble following the conversation, but my attempts(s) were rewarding.----------------------------------------------------------------------- They say third time's the charm.
As I tensely awaited the conclusion of each chapter, hoping that maybe just one of the characters would manage to get ahead or break the cycle of dependency on drugs, I would be rendered speechless by the desperation and insanity brought on by addiction.
In an attempt to lose weight before her TV appearance, Sara begins a long, hallucinatory journey to drug addiction by consuming diet pills.
We all cheer for the character that manages to overcome obstacles and bad circumstances in a single bound, but Selby explores the weakness of the human condition and the tendency to fall down and not get up again.
Bukowski, Harlan Elison, Fante,Carver and Selby, in the 80th, everybody read them. Why in this prosperity time,it was this kind of book which fascinated us. Someone saw there the back of the American dream. It is false, the heroes of this book aspires at the social success. Their dream are naive.We imagine them gaining money and have children. Their ingenuity will lose them. They will be crushed physically and morally. Marion will finish prostitute sordidly. There is a certain naturalism which do not exclude voyeurism.
Η σύλληψη και στέψη οποιουδήποτε ονείρου, το οποίο δύναται να χαρίσει ζωογόνο έξαψη και την ορμή που χρειάζεται για να κατακτήσει την ζωή ο αποδέκτης του.
Είναι και η αποκαθήλωση του ίδιου ονείρου - Νέμεσις- όταν αυτό εκτραχυνθεί σε μια μορφή υπερβολής.Ναι, έχει να κάνει με τα ναρκωτικά.
Πιο συγκεκριμένα με " την παραμύθα" , την Σκύλα και την Χάρυβδη κάθε κοινωνίας, κάθε νέου ανθρώπου που νιώθει πως δεν τον χωράει ο κόσμος που ζει.
Ανοσιούργημα ή αριστούργημα δεν ξέρω, εγώ σε κάθε σελίδα ένιωθα το στομάχι μου να γίνεται κόμπος.Αξίζει τα όσα και διπλάσια αστέρια του!
This book unearths that feeling from its hiding place in your soul, magnifies it, and plunks it right into the pit of your stomach for 280 pages.
There's not a dishonest word in this book - just raw emotion, fear, and hopelessness seeping from every page.
(If I could, I would probably take off half a star because it took me too long of a time to ease into Selby's dense, meandering prose.
I found myself getting confused at times as to whom was speaking and I had to go back and reread several passages.
This is the story of two types of drug addiction that takes place in Coney Island NY in the 1970's.
One of the character is a young hoodlum who gets hooked on heroin and the other is a middle aged widow that gets hooked on pills (interestingly enough they are mother and son).
Turns out plenty.Both mother and son progressively sink deeper and deeper in to drug addiction with disastrous results.
I liked how the author told the story of addiction from two very different viewpoints, it was also interesting to read about the heroin subculture in NYC at that time.Well written and a real good read!
Another reading ruined for me by the movie... I could even hear the soundtrack while reading!Thought it would be unfair to give it less than 5stars just because I saw the movie first...
It took me quite a long time to read this book, as being an addict and alcoholic myself i found the experience suprisingly overwhelming and emotionally painful.
Selby Jr was a member of Alcoholics Anonymous, like myself and also struggled with addiction problems all his life.
I read a lot of the reviews for this book associated with the these lists and was suprised by a number of reviews which were adamant that Selby Jrs portrayal of the escalation of drug use was inaccurate, overblown and unrealistic scare mongering.
I honestly hope people who have such delusional thoughts don't pay with their lives one day.I needed to read this book.

‘When dreams become nightmares.’There are four key characters in ‘Requiem for a Dream’: Sara Goldfarb, a lonely widow who spends her days watching television and eating chocolate; her son Harry; Harry’s friend Tyrone C.
As the story opens, it’s summer in New York City and Harry and Tyrone take Sara’s television to the pawn shop.
Sara gets her television back – not for the first time - and the reader starts to wonder what will happen next.
And as Harry, Tyrone and Marion become increasingly more desperate for heroin, their dreams disappear and they sink to new depths.
Öncelikle belirtmeliyim ki verdiğim tek yıldız kitabın değerini değil benim beğenimi gösteriyor.
Kitap eminim çok daha fazlasını hak ediyordur.
Yeraltı edebiyatına alışamadım, argo ve küfürleriyle günlük konuşma dilini yeraltı jargonunda anlatmanın yolunun roman olmadığı kanısındayım.
Romanda birtakım hususlar boşlukta duruyor gibi sanki.
Senaryo ile filmi yapmak çok daha uygun olur, Döğüş Klübü'nde olduğu gibi.
Hızlı okuma ile bitirdiğimi hatta bazı bölümleri ( uyuşturucu partileri gibi) birbirinin kopyası gibi gördüğümden okurmuş gibi yaptığımı da itiraf ediyorum.
Kitap, Amerikan Rüyası'nın arka planını, kötü yüzünü gösteriyor.
Belki çok iyi bir roman ama benim gibi Hemingway, Steinbeck, Orwell, Zweig, J.London hayranı bir okura hitap etmiyor.
