https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/164255.Adam_of_the_Road
Adam pines to leave the school and learn to be a minstrel like his father, so he’s overjoyed when Roger picks him up and takes him ― and Adam’s dog Nick, a beautiful red spaniel that Adam loves with all his heart ― on Roger’s journey with Sir Edmund, who employs him.It’s an enjoyable life for a young boy, and Roger is a loving though slightly flawed father: he loses his money and a valuable war horse (which was a gift from Sir Edmund) in gaming with another minstrel, Jankin.
I loved this book. Yes, it started out slow and I didn't understand why Adam called his father Roger; but otherwise a very nice book. Adam does some growing up and learns about the world. The author really did her research on the details. I feel that I have really learned somethings about England in the 1200s - 1300s and I wasn't even trying.
A classic that I also read back in 3rd grade.
The plot is take it or leave it, and there are several characters who you would have liked the author to develop more, thus why it gets 4 stars.
But for its portrayal of Medieval England it gets a high rank.
I really love entering the world of this book, and I would highly recommend it to anyone else.Because this one ends just before 1300, I think it is a good jumping off point to read Chaucer again (in translation, I am not that crazy).
I read this because Katie's on a Newbery kick. Although here it says first published in 1973, it was actually from 1942, and it reads as such, but it's a nice little medieval story anyway. I found interesting the way Gray describes friendships between males - for instance, there's an innocence in the way Adam just earnestly loves his friend Perkin, with the two boys always walking arm in arm, sharing beds and doing anything for each other, that wouldn't as likely be written in that way in the culture of today.
A pleasure to read aloud. This is the kind of excellent writing that engages children (including my first-grader) without any gimmicks or shortcuts. Highly recommend.
The story of a dog and his boy...set in medieval England. This is a charming little book, if slow moving. Adam is the son of Roger the Minstrel. While accompanying his father around England, his dog Nick is stolen. He sets off in search of his dog, is separated from his father, and has an episodic series of adventures. In the Newbery Project, there have been some really horrible books recently (I'm looking at you Daniel Boone and The Matchlock Gun). It's the second Newbery book that I've read so far (in order of publication) that I've enjoyed.
Fun coming of age story placed Medieval England. It gives a good picture of what life was like then- and not just for Adam, but for all the other people you meet along the way. At times the story and conflict seemed a bit slow. And then the conclusion came all of a sudden and resolved very quickly, which I didn't love. But it was a fun educational read. And it made you proud of Adam, just like his father.
This pleasant, easygoing tale set in late 13th century England describes the medieval life and times of a young minstrel looking to reunite with his dog and his dad.
i thought this book was horrible. i wouldn't reccommend it .
Still, NO SCHOOL!)Adam, his father, and their dog are minstrels in thirteenth-century England.
What follows is a long, crazy adventure full of danger and new friends.First, I’m very impressed that the author was able to take British history and package it in a way that makes it appealing to kids.
Becoming a good minstrel takes years of practice and memorization, but Adam isn’t afraid to work for what he wants.I think I would’ve loved this book as a kid.
Is there a historical reason for it?This book might not have enough tension to keep an adult entertained, but I recommend it to any kid who likes history or adventure stories.
The remaining book is Adam learning the hard truths of travel on the road, in addition to the goodness in people, as he searches for both his dog and his father.I picked it up because occasionally I enjoy reading young adult books; I view them as "palate cleansers." When I have come off of reading a series or an epic novel I like to read something simpler.
As I said, it was good and it did have me turning each page to find out what happens to Adam, but it is not a favorite of mine and I am not likely to re-read it.
I was disappointed by Adam of the Road. Did I miss some significance here, some references that make this more than it is? I found it a fairly standard coming-of-age story which just happens to be set in the thirteenth century -- perhaps another "it's a different culture/time period and therefore it's amazing" decision by the Newbery Committee. Then again, it's hard to know why I'm drawn to some coming-of-age stories and not others -- perhaps it has a lot to do with my own childhood, and not necessarily the quality of the work itself.
Well, survived it. It really wasn't that bad, if you find minstrels and that whole lifestyle intriguing than you may enjoy it. It wasn't for me, but, at least it didn't have anything really cringe-inducing in it. You could safely recommend it to anyone, but, I'm not sure who would enjoy reading it. Even the strictest parents shouldn't be able to find anything to object to in it. It's got plenty of little morals in it. Just not much fun to read unless you are really interested in that time period.
I have had to exercise discipline in finishing some of these older Newbery winners but this one was so engaging I found myself looking for opportunities to pick it up. I even read a chapter to my three year old and she was just as engrossed as I was!
Excellent story of young Adam, a minstrel, and unobtrusively teaches much about life in 13th century England.
this is a really good book. I am surprised I didn't read it as a child.
Besides Margery, there were in the carriage Lady Richenda, whom Adam knew at once because of her age and authority, and a young girl with red hair rippling about her shoulders like a cape, and a couple of women whom Adam did not notice particularly because there was not anything very much to notice about them.
Then further down the page, "'Sh!' said one of the uninteresting women." LOLI still don't know I feel about him calling his father Roger all the time, but overall, this was such a refreshing change from the standard Newbery up to this point that I have to say I loved it :)
If I can't remember what a book was about, it didn't make much of an impression on me, right?This book featured a young minstrel in training, Adam, who set off on a journey with his father and dog.
The much more recent Newbery winner, Crispin: The Cross of Lead, also featured a young boy traveling through England in that general time period.
All this leads one to think that if you want to win the Newbery Medal, you should try writing about a boy wandering alone through medieval England, right?
Adam won the Newbery Medal in 1943.
Adam is a 12 year old minstrel who is traveling with his father around 13th century England.
They have a fine war horse: Bayard and a beautiful red spaniel, Nick - Adam is excited about his future until his father gambles away the horse and the dog is stolen.
The book provides a look at daily life in 13th century and would be a great book for students wanting to read more after reading The Whipping Boy. The vocabulary is true to the time period and I learned quite a few new words while reading.
And it’s home to a minstrel, even though he may happen to be sleeping in a castle.”Adam is a young boy of eleven, spending his time in school while awaiting the return of his father, a minstrel of some repute, and the resumption of his life with his father on the road.
The fun of being on this road with Adam is seeing the people and places of another time, parsons and knights and other minstrels and other travelers.As a librarian, I began to see myself like Roger and Adam, as a kind of minstrel, singing songs, reciting poetry, relating stories.
"A road's a kind of holy thing," said Roger the Minstrel to his son, Adam.
And it's home to a minstrel, even though he may happen to be sleeping in a castle."Adam is a young boy of eleven, spending his time in school while awaiting the return of his father, a minstrel of some repute, and the resumption of his life with his father on the road.
The fun of being on this road with Adam is seeing the people and places of another time, parsons and knights and other minstrels and other travelers.As a librarian, I began to see myself like Roger and Adam, as a kind of minstrel, singing songs, reciting poetry, relating stories.
It's slways a nice break to read a Newbery book.
Though I personally would not have read this had it not had the seal, I realized and was able to appreciate the fact that there really are all sorts of writing styles and at the end of the day it boils down to telling a good story and getting your message across.
This was such a book.
A simple story about a young lad's journey to finding himself and of making his own mark.
It is also about keeping your principles and values intact along that journey.
Newbery Medal Winner--1943This was a fun little tale of an aspiring minstrel and the adventures he has while on the road. He encounters many people along his journey, including knights, robbers, and scholars. He spend much of the time searching for his father and his dog, and finds himself in all kinds of trouble. A good adventure tale set in Medieval Europe, but too much description and not enough dialogue for me to really love it.
Adam is the son of Roger, a minstrel. Roger and Adam head on the road to find places to sing and tell their tales. Through a series of events, Roger gets separated from his father and goes in search of his father. I found this a quick, enjoyable read with plenty of adventure as well as a wide assortment of characters.
I found this book so charming, and loved how it was set in England in the 1200's. Listed as a young adult book but I loved it as an adult and felt like I appreciated it even more from my current perspective.
There's a lot of unfamiliar vocabulary in this - some of it is explained right there, but much of it is not. A good deal of it can be understood roughly due to the context, but I think a glossary would have been a very useful addition to this book.
This is another book I read as a youngster that I purchased to share with my kids when they're a little older. But the other day I decided that I didn't want to wait any longer before reading it again myself!
My son rated this. "Too... much... walking..."
This book is a classic, in more ways than one.
For starters, the characters are realistic and enjoyable, and they represent their status in life admirably.
Secondly, the detail to everything is amazing, but it's not going overboard (not like Les Mis, with pages and pages of description).
Guys, this is like reading from a history book, only WAY better.
Lastly, it reads easily, letting you be immersed in the story for a time, until you put the book down.
It was easy to find, enjoyable to read, and a great book for anyone.
This is a book that I've wanted to read for probably close to twenty years, and I've finally done it.
As a little kid, I saw an old paperback copy of "Adam of the Road" on my mother's bookcase in her classroom.
Why it's taken me twenty years I'll never know.
Adam travels a road between St Alban's Abbey, London, Winchester, and Oxford, and has many adventures along the way.
There are mysterious bandits, colorful minstrels, brave sheriffs, and loyal friends who help or hurt Adam over his yearlong travel, and at the end Adam recognizes how much he's grown in maturity and experience.
