https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/127028.The_Magnificent_Ambersons
All the tropes of the All-American Novel notwithstanding, the best part of "Magnificent Ambersons" is the creation of its protagonist, Georgie Amberson, perennial brat & complete a$$hole. His impressions on the town, of which he is the most affluent and expectation-filled member, of the riffraff, are outstandingly hell-air-eeous! There are multiple love stories, some romantic, some familial. There are several dashes with history, especially with the invention of the automobile. Yup, a novel about America with a precocious imp in the center of it. THE stuff Pulitzer Dreams are made of!
After watching the movie I was astonished at the skill of Robert Wise and the RKO editors for managing to keep virtually the entire plot, key scenes and major dialogue exchanges from the book in the film.
In the book, it is clear that his "true love" remains the dead Isabelle Amberson Minafer.
By making peace with her son (and Eugene's enemy) George Amberson Minafer, he is thus remaining true to his own true love.
Nor could its passengers have endured such a thing, because the faster they were carried the less time they had to spare!----------"He can try," said Amberson.
Not a memorable story. Descriptions were good but this one wasn't for me.
I never saw a plainer case of a person’s fault making them pay for having it!You don’t want to like George, but at some point you do, because you feel sorry for him, knowing he is never going to build happiness without laying a solid foundation; but foundations are not something he thinks he needs, he believes his grandfather has laid a foundation that will support him forever.
“There aren't any old times.
When times are gone they're not old, they're dead!
Great Caesar dead and turn'd to clay stopped no hole to keep the wind away; dead Caesar was nothing but tiresome bit of print in a book that schoolboys studyfor awhile and then forget."-- Hamlet, Act V, Scene 1I guess the same can be said of literature.
We collectively shrug off and forget those we recently purchased, those banging the publisher's gongs to get attention, and to hell with all those public domain dead writers -- even if they did write such beautiful books.___________________
Thirdly, by looking at George Amberson Minafer, the grandson of the town's most prominent citizen and its founder, we can observe the socio-economic repercussions of the era on a personal level.
The wealthy, the renowned, the privileged, what happened to them with the changed times?The book was first published in 1918.
I am thinking of Eugene Morgan; he saw with foresight both the money that could be made through "horseless wagons" and the changes, both good and bad, that they would bring.A word about character portrayals and family relationships.
I loved the way the author used spoiled, self-centered George to show the reader the changes brought about by modern inventions and industrial growth, instead of telling us about these changes.
Booth Tarkington is an author I somehow missed in my school years, and only stumbled upon him whilst shopping the free classics on Amazon last year where it languished with all those other classics I'd downloaded, but thumbs up to the hardworking ladies at Legacy Romance for hunting down these older classics, spiffing them up and giving them a new lease on life in the digital world.
It always cracks me up that this is the #100th book on the Modern Library top 100 list. I haven't actually read very many books on that list, but I'm always proud of the fact that I've read the one that just barely made it.
Seeing the world from the view point of George Amberson Minifer was a little like looking at Canada through the eyes of Boy Staunton of Davies’ Deptford Trilogy.
I could just envision Boy Staunton, as the rich young ruler in Deptford (as seen through the eyes of Dunstan Ramsey) and he blurred with Georgie from time to time.
Especially since both Boy Staunton and Georgie Minafer were very concerned with appearances, etiquette, and properness.
And how completely inaccurate that can be—it’s a wonder that there aren’t more serious differences among family and friends than already occur.
During the course of the book we see how the new "horseless carriage" (a crazy invention some thought)begins to change the course of both the family and the town.
I think what I liked most about this book is the perspective it has given me about so many things that are taken for granted these days.
It also made me realize how some things never change and that there will always be people opposed to change and wishing for the good old days, no matter what century we live in!I would definitely recommend this book to anyone interested in reading about an important time in this country's history.
This writer and this novel have slipped into obscurity which is a shame, because this is one of the best American novels that I have read from the early 20th century.
I was surprised at how good the writing was, how well developed the characters were, and the excellence of a story line that rivals his contemporaries, Cather and Wharton.The setting was a fictional Midwestern American town, appropriately named Midland, but it is surely Tarkington's home town of Indianapolis Indiana.
The story chronicles three generations of the wealthy Amberson family, and their decline to obscurity by the close of the novel.
George, his parents' only child, is completely spoiled by his mother and, naturally, grows up tyrannical and selfish.
Morgan typifies the new aristocracy of wealth created by the rapid growth of manufacturing; we see the once-mocked horseless carriage become the coveted automobile while the Amberson district goes downhill, the sources of their prosperity are eroded, the once vast properties are gradually subdivided and their small town becomes a large city.
George embodies all of these conservative attitudes: he staunchly insists that horses are better than automobiles and does not even countenance the idea of working for a living.In the meantime, George's father, almost invisible in Amberson society, dies and it becomes clear that the flame between his mother and Eugene Morgan is still alive.
Maybe even 4.5* While I knew most of the plot from watching the excellent film adaptation (1942 directed by Orson Wells and starring Joseph Cotten), it was worthwhile reading the original novel.
Wells focused on the family drama in the film (and ended a few chapters short of the book!) but the book shows that Tarkington is more interested in the wider social commentary.
Georgie is not a caricature and I liked the fact that (view spoiler)[Tarkington showed him as human which allowed me to sympathize with him even when he was at his most annoying.
Not so many people read Booth Tarkington these days. Too bad. He's got a lot to say about the way people are. It may seem a little dated on the surface, but so much of the human nature that he observes so well is timeless. I liked what this one said about character and comeuppances. (Maybe my word choices are a little dated, too. Comeuppances?)

(That's one of the problems with reading the Introduction after reading the book.) Additionally it seems silly to me to include the second book in a trilogy on the Modern Library's Top 100 List.
The other two must really suck.This is the story of the Amberson family and their fortune.
Sure, Galsworthy wrote about the different generations in a British family, and the Ambersons were quite American.
Especially because The Forsyte Saga was, in its first form, published in 1906, a whole 12 years earlier.
Sort of suspicious to me.In any case, it's another book off the Modern Library List.
Somehow, I've managed to not only never read this book but also never see any of the film or t.v. versions, so I was really unsure of what I was getting into -- but I immediately loved Tarkington's writing from the first chapter.The story follows first Isabel Amberson, who falls for -- but doesn't end up with -- Eugene Morgan, and later, Isabel's son Georgie, who falls for Eugene's daughter Lucy.
(Also: this is the second book in a trilogy, although I haven't read the first book and I don't think one needs to in order to enjoy this one.) A comment about this specific e-book edition: I love the font size and formatting!
I know it sounds as though I've been criticizing it for lacking a kind of 'depth', but that would be like criticizing The Godfather for not being Goodfellas.MA concentrates mostly on George Amberson Minafer, grandson of 'The Major' who initially gathered the Amberson fortune and became the town's most prominent citizen.
As this is part of a challenge to read the Pulitzer winners in order, I'll be trying more Tarkington in the near future if I hold out, and based on The Magnificent Ambersons, it should be an enjoyable experience.
After reading it a second time, my admiration for the Georgie character is unchanged, even as I find myself questioning other aspects of the book.
Despite these complaints, I still find the book eminently readable and, like its namesake family, rather close to magnificent.Original review (2009):1919 Booth Tarkington won the Pulitzer for this book.
I even put off reading the last couple chapters for a few days, just to prolong the time I could spend with Georgie, Aunt Fannie, and the rest of the family and its acquaintances.Obviously, Ambersons was a topical book at the time of its release.
Traditions and attitudes that will be passed down to Isabelle's son, George, who will in turn freeze them in amber, much to his eventual suffering.
Upon the passing of George's father, Morgan and Isabelle gravitate inevitably toward each other, and that is where George's selfish character blossoms, at least for a time, into a cruel one.
Despite the novel's misfire at the end, Tarkington does have points to make regarding the spiritual costs of industry, growth, and a morally untethered change that is rooted only in the acquisition of money.
Review to follow.
The Magnificent Ambersons barely made the Modern Library’s Top 100 list when they compiled their take on the greatest novels of the 20th century.
But, as it turns out, this is a really good book.George Amberson is the main protagonist of the novel and he’s easy to dislike.
There is an interesting allegory toward the end of the novel where Uncle George Amberson is describing a new type of headlight to Aunt Fanny.
Accelerating at full speed, spending money, living extravagantly, but as the novel progresses the lights start to fade on the Ambersons.
He wouldn't be surprised, but it's still a poignant thread when reading this book.I expected to like the book.
I did not read this book in the B&N Classics edition, but in the Pulitzer Prize edition from Grosset & Dunlap, most likely printed in the late 30s.
The writing is generally superb, the characters beautifully realized, but...Why is the main character, young George Amberson, so consistently repugnant (a dickhead would be an apt term) yet so well respected as he ruins the lives of those around him?
How is it that Tarkington's writing sparkles with wit and skewering social commentary, yet George not only has no sense of humor whatsoever, he can't even realize it in others.
I'd give the writing, plotting, pacing 5 stars; George...3 stars.
I did not get the point of this book until the end and then realized it was about how society changed dramatically during the industrial revolution. How the car changed the cities, why all of the beautiful old homes are in the worst parts of town. When I was done I was so glad I read it to better understand how American cities have developed.
I struggle to review a book like this as I rarely give a summary of the book and never give a spoiler.
I like to just tell what I love or don't love about a particular story.
The protagonist is an old-money, spoiled and selfish man who expected to live his life doing absolutely nothing and living above the means of every other person in his life.
As a modern reader it often feels dated, but also allows one to better understand the era.
She writes about the beauty of the language and how much it allows the reader to feel a part of the time, and I completely agree.
Originally read in 2011; additional thoughts added after 2015 re-read.The opening of The Magnificent Ambersons breaks all the rules we are told to observe these days when writing first chapters. The first paragraph does catch the reader's attention and foreshadows much of what is to come...but instead of diving immediately into the action and plot, author Booth Tarkington then devotes the entire first chapter to a minute description of fashion, architechture, hairstyles, transportation, interior
On the other hand, I'm sure part of the reason the reader keeps on is because they, too, are waiting for George Amberson Minafer to "get his come-uppance," as Tarkington puts it in one of the book's signature phrases.Put simply, it is the story of the thoroughly spoiled and selfish heir of a wealthy family, who sabotages his widowed mother Isabel's second chance at happiness with the man she always loved, but rejected before her marriage to George's father years earlier; and the disastrous consequences for the whole family.
This book would have been better if the characters had been more rounded and developed. The character who received the most attention from the author, Georgie, was also the most annoying. The book was entertaining but lacking in substance.
If I wasn’t reading this because I had to, I would have been much wearier and probably abandoned The Magnificent Ambersons because it opens as a history textbook; however, ends as a tragically bittersweet story with many wonderful merits to it.Goodreads summarizes the novel with, “Set in the Midwest in the early twentieth century—the dawn of the automobile age—the novel begins by introducing the richest family in town, the Ambersons.
I've been wanting to read this for years, but now I'm wondering if I should continue. It seems a little too obvious and over-the-top when introducing the shallow, elitist, jerk Georgie Amberson. It's just not a very subtly written book. I'm at the part where he just met a girl at a dance, a girl who seems more down-to-earth than most people Georgie hangs with--and every comment out of his mouth highlights what a snob he is. Just seems too pat, if you ask me. This book is currently not grabbing my attention. Maybe later.
