https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85392.Term_Limits
I never felt like there was a major plot twist, but rather the characters were working hard to battle each other and all felt like powerful adversaries.
As with many good books, when the end came, I expected the outcome, but was pleased by the way the author got me there.
The book tapped a number of emotions for me with despicable characters facing chiseled heroes.
The theme of corruption in Washington politics was easy to identify with and I felt the author had an excellent knowledge of sophisticated weaponry and surveillance / countersurveillance tactics.I would gladly recommend this book to any thriller fan.CJ
this guy is AMAZING - term limits was published in 1997 and it talks about the budget and how the fa
I can accept books with main characters who have different motives, beliefs and values from mine, and who might do things I would consider depraved.
In this book, neither the good guys or the bad guys are moral - the only difference between the "good guys" and the "bad guys" was that the "good guys" actually convinced themselves they had honor and integrity, when what they really had was megalomania.
“What if America's politicians were held accountable for their broken promises -- and made to pay for their corruption?”Oh, if only… oops, I was lost for a moment in the sweet, sweet fantasy of having corrupt, immoral, and self-serving politicians systematically eliminated by a thoughtful group of elite, patriotic American assassins…After reading Vince Flynn’s rather disappointing, often sophomoric Consent to Kill, I was reluctant to give him another try.
Term Limits is an exciting story of a group of former American commandos who recognize that, in many cases, corrupt and immoral politicians threaten the security and welfare of the country they love far more than the foreign terrorists, dictators, and extremists they have fought and killed in the name of national security.
A group of assassins targets corrupt politicians and kills several of them, demanding an end to deficit spending, special interests, pork, and partisan politics (keep in mind, the book was written in 1999, so any resemblance to our current political situation sadly just means that some things never change).From there, things went downhill in a big way.
The main character, Congressman Michael O'Rourke, was about as bad as the murdered "bad guys".
For example, a congressman who participates in covert operations with a group of political assassins to kidnap a former CIA honcho?
I loved it!I also thought that the author--a very conservative man (I first heard about this book on Glenn Beck)--did a good job of showing how wrong this 'solution' actually is, even as I acknowledge a certain emotional satisfaction in reading this story about killing the people who are killing our country.
Violence, of course, has no place in our political system...but I admit, it sure was fun to read about!Highly recommended book.
I haven't read a political thriller for years (I think the last one was a Tom Clancy novel in the late 90s), but I am all over this guy.
I began reading Vince Flynn about a year ago after hearing Neal Boortz and others sing the praises of Mitch Rapp.
So, naturally, I skipped past Term Limits (since it’s not listed as part of the Mitch Rapp series) and jumped right into his other books.
It did not disappoint.Because Term Limits isn’t part of the Rapp series, I assumed that it wouldn’t share any of the canon of those books.
As I read more and more, I couldn’t have been happier to find that this book weaves nicely into the Rapp series and overall Flynn universe.
In Term Limits, Michael O'Rourke, a young congressman, knows a secret.
In every page, we watch how Michael's trapped.
Due to heated politics in Washington D.C., we watch the fireworks fly between the White House and Michael and potential threats.
I felt bad for Liz, who has a duty to report the facts for her paper, and how her lies are sealed on keeping his secrets, until something happens that turns up the tables.
A lot of violent drama, when it deals with politics, then and now, and how it can affect the presidency.
This book was amazing. It stayed interesting the whole way through. It's a political thriller. It reminds me of Tom Clancy, but with less of the weapons/model # info that makes my eyes glaze over.
After hearing what his subject matter was, and knowing how hooked on 24 I am, I thought I'd give Flynn a try and decided to start with his first novel.
While the storyline might be a little far-fetched, as the story unfolds you really start to wonder if something like this could ever happen in America.
Flynn's writing is fast-paced and more than once I found my heart pounding as certain key events took place.
But in the context of a fictional work, I was really impressed with the level of detail provided, not to mention the fact that it was a fast-paced, attention-grabbing read for a 600+ page book.
But it could be considered by some people kind of a prequel and start-up to the series.3 unknowingly corrupt Washington Politicians are executed by a group of unknown assassins, and their list of demands, that the US Government set aside politics and restore peace and order to the American People, and they claim that nobody is out of their reach, not even the President.
Has a very different feel to it than the Mitch Rapp series, but as I said up above, some may consider it a prequel to the series, and it has some recurring characters you'll recognize, such as CIA Director Thomas Stansfield, Dr. Irene Kennedy, and Navy SEAL Scott Coleman.
One of my favourite Vince Flynn books. A definite must read!
(The book was published in 1997) The next day the demands of the assassins are delivered to a major television network.
Apparently neither this group nor Flynn sees any irony that another demand is a new crime bill.So, what's the reaction of our "hero" ex-marine and Freshman Congressman Michael O'Rourke?
Flynn lost me right there.
Look, I'm right of center and have been known to enjoy Tom Clancy novels.
Flynn according to the wiki was inspired to write the book by The Government Racket: Washington Waste from A to Z, by Martin L.
It describes what happens when people are fed up with a corrupt government and corrupt politicians and decide to take out some of the bad guys and hold the government to ransom.
As commandos, we rationalize that we are ridding the world of a bad person, that we are protecting America.
What do you think would happen if one of these highly trained individuals realized that the politicians running his own country pose a bigger threat to the security of America's future than the religious extremist that he just flew halfway around the world to kill?"
Not even a mention of Mitch Rapp here, but many other characters that fans of Vince Flynn will recognize.
Surprisingly, I have not seen them in other Vince Flynn works as yet.
In the story, dirty Senators and Congressmen are being assassinated for working for themselves rather than being representatives of the people.
And there is no Mitch Rapp to save the day and even if Rapp wasn't still in college or High School he probably would have opted to help the assassins so that is the tone of the story.
This is my 7th Vince Flynn novel and Term Limits is just as good as his other works even without his star character Mitch Rapp.
Working on the rest of the "Mitch Rapp" books by this author.
I know some details of secret service, White House layout, CIA and FBI are changed for protective reasons, but it definitely gives you a glimpse behind the scenes, which is fun/interesting.
Makes you realize that Americans and Congress are way too quick to pooh-pooh things that willing and able servicemen/women do in the name of protecting our country and instead of making a stink (Gitmo, anyone?), we should be thankful that these things don't have to be done by us, and that there are people willing to, for us.
Definitely makes the brain waves work.
SUMMARY: American citizens are shocked—and even pleased—when several corrupt politicians are assassinated.
A group of commandos is responsible for the killings.
While the president and his administration are justifiably befuddled, a second group who kills more politicians muddies the water even further.
An ex-marine Congressman knows more than he’s letting on, and is convinced to reveal some details about the responsible party to his reporter girlfriend.PROS: The storyline is relevant to today.
Because the storyline is relevant to today, it makes the reader wonder, “How much has really changed in American politics?” Unfortunately, from reading this book, not much.
Liked it didn't love it because the viewpoint is so far right wing it borders fascism and that soured me.. Yes, i am angry at some of the crap that goes on in government but not as angry as the novel portrays. The novel could have more likely been set in a third world country when people take the law into their own hands and depose politicians at will. Despite its viewpoint, the novel is imminently readable and very well constructed.
From the "oh, good lord, how is he going to write that!" of the premise, to the compulsive, plausible and exciting execution.It features several characters who also continue into the Mitch Rapp series proper, including one, I won't say who, who really shouldn't get out of this book either alive, or without having spent a long time in jail, but nothing of what they do here, is ever mentioned in the subsequent series.
Read it, see what you think.It's here that you can see why the political stuff in the later books was so good, so compulsive.
Very good stand alone that, without given credit, turned into the Mitch Rapp series. From the point of view of this site, and others like it, I find no reason that this book was not tagged as a prequel to Rapp series; there are a half dozen characters that will carry on. I've read six Rapp books and Coleman was explained more in "Term Limits" than those six. So, if someone wants to start Rapp I would recommend "Term Limits" first.
This was another action packed thriller from Vince Flynn. This one featured a protagonist other than Mitch Rapp which made for an interesting change. The action was pretty much non-stop, and ended with a great climax. This book gives new meaning to the phrase "term limits". A solid read.
Audiobook 5*The narrator made a great impression on the way this book transpired. Brilliantly narrated and written, and a worthy start to the Mitch Rapp series with three main characters carrying over
An amazing suspenseful tell all tale about corruption, assassinations and a perfect example of the need for term limits on elected officials in Washington.
In this thriller three Congressmen are assassinated by Ex-American Commandos merely carrying out what they have been trained to do.
Protect America from its enemies by any means necessary.
The only catch is, they have realized the more potent threats are actually in Washington rather than overseas.
This book is very capable of waking up the apathetic people of America to the self serving political games being played in Washington.
This is a political/US special forces thriller set in the nation's capital.
This sets in motion a cat-and-mouse intrigue involving the White House, FBI, CIA, Secret Service, Pentagon and the assassins.
The plot is well conceived (although significant portions of the plot line are implausible and diminish the viability of the story).
End note: I disagreed with the author's use of profanity and believe a truly great author can tell a story without stooping to profanity.
In my estimation, a great writer need not (and will not) use profanity.
There are many layers to the plot, many characters who are all after various things - from justice, to power, to money, to revenge.
I have to admit that there was enough intrigue to keep me turning pages in this lengthy novel, although the more I read, the stinkier it got (like an onion), because it exposes what ails Washington, D.C. I would hope that the real politicians in our nation's capital are not this corrupt, but it's hard to say.
The book is nearly 20 years old but the subjects of national debt and security are prevalent today.
this book is exactly what i needed during a reading slump. i did nothing but listen to it non-stop, and not only was it immensely entertaining, it was mildly thought provoking, which i enjoy in these political spy thrillers. after reading all the other mitch rapp books, it was fun to go back and revisit the world that vince flynn created, minus rapp. thinking that this book was self published blows my mind. it is now in my top 5 flynn books :)
Fun DC thriller. I heard good things about the late Vince Flynn. Although I enjoyed this book, I still find myself comparing his writing to Daniel Silva. It's good, but doesn't measure up to Silva. Some cool domestic politics stuff, but I found the characters kind of thin, and frankly while the writing is very good, it's not great. I guess I'm just spoiled. Good plane read though.
This novel is full of excitement and full of plausible insider tidbits about the workings of Washington, DC, behind the scenes.The premise is a bit impossible and I felt a bit guilty in rooting for the brutal way that the small band of "patriots" decided to turn the country toward a path of fiscal responsibility. But it made for a fast-paced read, with lots of twists.Nothing much seems to have changed since the novel was written: we still seem to be spending taxpayer money like drunken sailors (apologies to drunken sailors!). I liked it and think it's worth a look.
I describe this book as an extremely exciting adventure hike full of action and mystery, but this one detail at the end was the equivalent to having a little pebble stuck in your shoe for the whole hike.
That is why I gave it 3 stars and not the 4-5 stars I honestly probably would have if it wasn't for it.
This detail to me was just a thorn in my side for the rest of the story, but that's me and I'm pretty sure almost everyone else would over look it.
Breaking my own rule and giving five stars to a thriller. My first Vince Flynn book, and I immediately started on a second. Term Limits is taut, fast paced, totally believable, and nearly impossible to put down. The assassination of two senators and a congressman put Washington into an uproar. Then there's another, and two more. Tracing the perps and their reasons as the story unfolds is breathtaking. Character development is fine, and the story is extremely well written.
