https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/189147.To_Your_Scattered_Bodies_Go
About as inventive as a great science fiction novel from a very good writer can be, this describes a world where everyone who ever lived is reincarnated into a river valley environment.
I am also led to believe that the producers of The Matrix films were inspired by Farmer's setting.
However, one criticism is the same that often comes to such writers as Poul Anderson and Theodore Sturgeon; great idea, but an incomplete story.
And of course this leads me to my most frequent criticism of science fiction novels, it is inherently incomplete when you are invited to tune in next year for the sequel.
It's 1972 and the Hugos just named this one best novel, and why?Because it's actually 2016 and this novel has just been optioned by both HBO AND Showtime for an ongoing series noted mostly for it's all nude cast, all the time, celebrities and historical personages all coming back to their most perfect forms, and, of course, senseless war and violence.
I'm actually having a great time with this book.
Why are we having the tale of the bodily resurrection in an ostensibly heaven-like world complete with Holy Grails for every single person who had ever lived?
A very Kilgore Troutish book.
Farmer comes up with a phenomenal idea: a world where every human being who's ever lived has been resurrected, to spend the rest of eternity coming to terms with each other along the banks of a gigantic river.
Unfortunately, after a few chapters it becomes clear that the author has no real plan about where to go with his concept.
I remember some reviewer expressing similar disappointment with "The Matrix".
But even so, this is the best book of the series - the Riverworld is entertaining enough in itself to keep things moving along for a while.
Trust me: you'll be disappointed.
You wake up on a beach (I am simplifying here for those of that have not read this—the book does not start off on a beach), next to a river that is endless.
But, hey, you're in a Philip Jose Farmer novel, so anything's possible.
I love the concept that when we die (regardless of what time period we died in) we are all sent to a world with a massive river cutting it in half and are dependant upon mystical orbs to get food and other necessities.But what really works for me is the realization Farmer had that in some way man will still try to develop a power structure.
However, we are struck with an immediate difficulty: Farmer is trying to write some of the most remarkable people in history.Unfortunately for Farmer, many of his characters' real-life counterparts were brilliant, eccentric men.
Many authors have tried to create adventure heroes out of small and inexperienced men.
It would be a remarkable feat for any author to be able to write such interactions as might occur between Sumerians and Olmecs, but this hardly excuses Farmer; after all, he was the one who chose to write this book.Farmer took his inspiration from Edgar Rice Burroughs, who also had a mysterious and mystical river in his John Carter of Mars series.
I can't even continue with this book. The premise is moderately interesting, but the sexism is just too much. Prudes and whores and nags and every fucking stereotype of woman you can think of, but god forbid there be a woman who serves any purpose other than sex object or victim. Yet another "genius" who can imagine a world without religion or oppressive sexual mores, but can't imagine competent women with purpose and agency outside of a man.DNFed at page 78.
Revisit 2015 is via audio file 07:42:33Description: To Your Scattered Bodies Go is the Hugo Award-winning beginning to the story of Riverworld, Philip José Farmer's unequaled tale about life after death.
When famous adventurer Sir Richard Francis Burton dies, the last thing he expects to do is awaken naked on a foreign planet along the shores of a seemingly endless river.
But that's where Burton and billions of other humans (plus a few nonhumans) find themselves as the epic Riverworld saga begins.
I won’t tell you who else shows up in the Riverworld, because I’d spoil the fun, but I’ll say that it’s hilarious to watch Burton learn about 20th-century history and interact with some of its denizens.The best aspect of To Your Scattered Bodies Go is its original premise — the idea of all of humanity spread out, generally in chronological order, along a giant river which can be traveled, like a human timeline.
If someone dies in the Riverworld, they are resurrected at random somewhere along the river.To Your Scattered Bodies Go, written in 1971, is creative, exciting, fast-paced, and totally absorbing.
Were there NO other sf novels published in 1971?Farmer uses historical figures as his characters as an excuse to not bother writing any characterization of any kind.
It's pretty hard to make such an interesting and multi-dimensional character as the historical Richard Burton dull and flat - but Farmer manages it.Moreover, the book is offensively, insidiously sexist.
Women are only an accessory to a man, to be admired physically, used sexually, and then tired of.Here's one direct quote: "She was the product of her society - like all women, she was what men had made her."One cannot excuse this attitude in writing as being a product of its time - check out what Ursula LeGuin was publishing in the late 60's and early 70's!Sexist stereotypes are not the only ones found...
There is really a lot to love in this book.
First--the inventive idea of coming back to life on a foreign planet with everyone else who has ever lived.
Second--now all the characters must live with each other and other hsitorical figures, how does one get along with so many different people displaced from time.
Third--just survival on a foreign planet.
There is a lot to wrap your mind around in this book, especially when it comes to social interaction with various kinds of people and characters.
Written in 1971, this book does show its age a bit around the edges, but for the most part holds up well.
4.0 stars. Excellent novel by one of the under-rated masters of science ficiton. Great, original concept and a well-written plot. Recommended.Winner: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1972)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1972)
Meals and wants like cigarettes, alcohol, and clothing are provided daily from unseen benefactors.The main character of the story is Richard Francis Burton, a famous British explorer from the last half of the 1800s.
Some other things that I bet won't make it into the series are people waking up naked and hairless, marijuana and hallucinates, lots of suicides, lots of love and war, and people's questioning of their religion since the afterlife is different than they were told.
The next book in the series The Fabulous Riverboat features Mark Twain as the main character rather than Richard Burton.
First, a word of warning: do NOT expect to know the answers to the questions you're going to have by the end of this book.
So if you read this book, get to the end of it and say "this stinks!
Remember: it's Fiction!This novel is the first of the Riverworld Series, in which the reader is introduced to the Riverworld, so called because its main feature is a continuous river that doesn't seem to end.
The main character is a real character, here in his fictional garb, the explorer Sir Richard Burton.
It looks as if there were a total of five books in the Riverworld series by the time Farmer quit, but this first one is likely to be enough for me.
The concept was clever: all the people on Earth who died (which included all the present population up to 2008 because of an alien attack which killed them all off) from pre-history on are resurrected at the same time and deposited by the banks of a great river.
He eventually gathers a group of like-minded people around him and takes off on his quest.

The first PJF novel I ever read. His short stories from sci-fi magazines had impressed me but this novel went way beyond that. This novel has one of the most memorable opening sequences in all of sci-fi literature. Even 20+ years since I read this novel, I can still recall the fascinating opening of it with the suspended bodies and our protagonist coming awake. The mix of sci-fi and religion is always fascinating to me but in the hands of PJF, it was doubly fascinating.
The main character (19th century explorer and ethnologist Richard Francis Burton) is a personal hero of Farmer's.
I hope a guided thought experiment will explore ideas in, if not an unexpected way, at least a way that is consistent and fruitful.
But his morals are delivered anecdotally, with no connection to the thought experiment.
The actual thought experiment of people from different eras cohabiting goes nowhere.
What happens to all those children?)But the novel lurches along well enough until Farmer starts trying to explain the motivations of the creators.
Mayyybe 2.5Some real character building here - there's Burton, who, realistically, is almost the only person out of 36 billion intent on figuring out how the world works.
There's Alice, who is a bit of a stickler for Victorian morals but has a great figure.
I think there may have been two or three other women with great figures, I can't remember.There's this strange utter disbelief in the possibility of progress that underlies the conflict between Burton and the other resurrectees and the Ethicals.
It couldn't possibly be that in tens of thousands of years a species makes any sort of philosophical or moral advancement.
I don't know if this book actually deserves a four star rating, but it has been haunting the back of my mind since senior year of high school, when I had to read it for my "Literature of Science" class.
There is a lot of macho male wish fulfillment, what with all the naked babes running around and having sex with all the "ugly" guys, wooed by brute force (it would be like Heavy Metal if it weren't set in such a sterile environment with such polite historical figures) .
It's rather funny how I came to this audio book. I have had it for a few years in a cool little list my friend gave me for x-mas. The Top 100 azzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzok, guess I'll get this done, awake!
Good novel. Totally weird, creepy, bizarre, alternative Earth, populated with resurrected humanity.
This approach to Riverworld is one reason Burton survives for so long and becomes a thorn in the side of Riverworld's operators (whoever They may be).To Your Scattered Bodies Go is actually the combination of two stories: a look at what would happen to humanity if everyone was collectively resurrected in a massive river valley, and the story of one man's struggle to discover and thwart those who caused this resurrection.The first story allows Farmer to ask the big questions.
Farmer creates a small cast of characters, but then he leaves them behind as Burton begins venturing across Riverworld via "The Suicide Express" and we don't see them again until the end.
Intrigado, com o seu sentido de explorador aguçado, Burton parte à descoberta dos segredos deste estranho mundo novo, onde a morte é sempre seguida de ressurreição, as necessidades básicas são satisfeitas por dispositivos individuais que, todas as noites, dão acesso a comida, e toda a humanidade, desde a pré-história ao futuro, com alienígenas à mistura, parece ter direito a uma segunda oportunidade.Parte do romance foca-se na adaptação ao novo estado das coisas.
Os humanos do século XX, a época mais profícua da humanidade espalham - se por entre todos os grupos..O grande objectivo de Burton é descobrir os segredos que alicerçam aquela estranha ressurreição no que não é o final dos tempos.
Burton gathers a collection of people from different eras, including Alice Hargreaves (of Alice in Wonderland fame), a Neanderthal, a Holocaust survivor and an alien being from the future and they set off to explore.What they find is that humans will be humans.
When this quest proves to be nearly impossible through conventional means (e.g. sailing a boat up the river), Burton comes up with another strategy - one that involves his own willingness to be subjected to death and resurrection, again and again.I haven't read Philip Jose Farmer in a long time, but I do recall that he generally writes a pretty good adventure story.
This is the opening novel in Farmer's Riverworld and was a fantastic read.
The premise is fantastical: every humanoid being born on the Earth from Homo Erectus to early 21st Century Homo Sapiens to alien visitors, about 35 billion of them, is resurrected along the banks of a river that runs millions of miles through an alien planet.
There are other characters prominent in the story, fictional and historical, including Kazz, a Neanderthal, and Monat, an alien from Tau Ceti who died on Earth.
Obviously true of Farmer--because Burton is rendered in a way that is rounded, fascinating, and obviously well-researched as are many of the other characters we meet.
No one ages or gets pregnant.
What would happen?War, rape, and slavery, according to Farmer.
A 19th century English explorer and linguist sets out to discover HOW and WHY the great resurrection took place.
He makes his way through a world by turns horrific and utopian, picking up clues and getting ever closer to the truth.Amazeballs.
I was frustrated to find that there are four more volumes.Farmer did a great job but I'd love to have seen this story in the hands of Richard Morgan.
Un libro impresionante, sin duda entre los mejores que me he leído este año.
Buena parte del libro me ha recordado a la serie "LOST", con ese halo de misterio y dudas que necesitan ser resueltas lo antes posible, y que te llevarán a otros misterios todavía más grandes.
No esperes una ciencia ficción clásica, con naves espaciales, y viajes de planeta en planeta.
Aunque ya he leído en varios sitios que las continuaciones del libro, no son ni de lejos como el primero, con que me satisfaga la mitad que este, será un acierto continuar con la saga.Todavía hay muchas respuestas que buscar...
Hugo Award Winner.
Until about halfway through the book i was gonna give it a 5 but then it felt like the the author didn't really know where else to go with the story and wanted to make sure it was a novel not a novella.
Overall, extraordinary premise and theme but the execution, which was perfect throughout the first half of the book, became increasingly sloppy.
I believe it does deserve the Hugo Award for its originality and boundary pushing in sciece fiction and is a classic that should be read by all serious scifi readers.
The premise of this book is fascinating and right up my alley.
I got about 1/4 of the way through and realized I couldn't continute.
It wasn't because 1) The protagonist is unlikeable, unsympathetic, possibly a rapist and definitely kind of an @sshole (though, to be honest, I'm sure Farmer was drawing on his knowledge of the real Burton) or 2) It was insanely misogynistic, racist, and possibly homophobic, but mostly because 3) It was written like a 12th grade writing project by a preacher's kid.
It was *painful* for me to read, and I made it through two Twilight books.
He woke up young, hairless, naked, and turning in midair (as if on a spit) in the middle of 37 billion other young, hairless, naked and rotating humans.
Soon after waking, the bodies — all the people over the age of five who had ever lived — plunged to the ground and began their new lives together in a giant river valley...
Is this Heaven, Hell, Purgatory, or is it some huge social experiment being run by aliens?Most of the humans, happy that their basic needs are being met, are content to just be living again.
Some people see this as an opportunity to...
