https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1335568.Engine_Summer
Whether the philosophical/spiritual insights and revelations are deep or shallow I can't say, but the writing gave them a gravitas that made them seem as vital and obvious as that thing you understood with sudden and perfect clarity in the moment before you woke and it escaped you...I think as many people might set this book aside in exasperation as may read it through to the end, but there's definitely something worthwhile here for many readers.Quotes:“The better you tell an old story, the more you are talking about right now.” “I learned, as the raft moved and I slid through the day, as the day slid through me, to let the task be master: which is only not to choose to do anything but what has chosen me to be done.”“Time, I think, is like walking backward away from something: say, from a kiss.
The story follows the charming and inquisitive Rush as he grows up in his enclave of 'True Speakers', one of the few groups of humanity left after an apocalypse has destroyed most of civilization.
It then follows him as he ventures out into the world to see what strangeness it may offer and in the hopes of finding his lost love.Don't expect to find the mutant zombies or flesh-eating reavers of many other post-apocalyptic stories.
Tied to this are the strange people we meet; those who survived the cataclysm and continued to live their lives, forever changed by the harsh reality of the end of civilization.
There are some books that are bigger on the inside than on the outside.
They may be small, but are so densely layered that they feel like they're opening onto infinite space, and when you finish reading you're dazed, like you've woken up from a vivid dream to find your waking life transformed.
Engine Summer is such a book, a deceptively slim novella set in a far-future world, which is at once a picaresque tale of love and adventure, and a dreamily gorgeous story about the nature of time, identity, consciousness, and the stories that make us really live.
You should read it.
Path is like a snake, it curls around the whole of Little Belaire with its head in the middle and the tip of its tail by Buckle cord's door, but only someone who knows Little Belaire can see where it runs.
It runs off the snake of Path like a set of little fingers.
One final quote, that will mark my departure from the realm of Engine Summer, hopefully only to return soon for another Crowley book: Blink told me once that in ancient times they said a thing was holy if it made you hold your tongue.
A book that is as elusive and ethereal as a dream, it left me with a sense of something profound and beautiful and sad, painted in greys and blues.
Engine Summer says a whole heap about how a culture is built on the stories it tells itself, where myths come from and how they tell us who we are.
It is post-apocalyptic, but also kind of hippie-utopian, told in a rich, mapley voice (the writing actually reminded me a bit of Tom Spanbauer) and full of unexpected little touches and lush, dreamy visuals which are oh so pretty.
This was such a genius novel I'm gonna be all over John Crowley like a bad rash.
Of course it's lovely to find that something held up as amazing, like say Infinite Jest or Catch-22, is actually amazing, but there's something extra wonderful about finding a book quite randomly, that it seems nobody ever heard of, that is in that same bracket.
But Crowley seems to know so well himself, and keeps you engaged as you are wondering with such beautiful and real moments, that you trust he will make it good by the end, that you will understand as much as you need to.And by the end, you do.
This book is certainly a lot of hard work but I'm not sure the reward at the end is quite enough to make it all worth while.When I say that it was a lot of hard work, there were times when the reading was pleasant and engaging but there was far too much couched in impenetrable phraseology, whole chapters that seemed all about imagery and metaphor.
I appreciate what the author was trying to do here but I just think it is all just too obscure and un-enjoyable the first time around.I'm certainly going to be careful before I pick up any more of his work.
The parts of the story that focused on this were riveting.
I have the feeling, too, that this would only improve with a reread: characters are always posing riddles to one another and relying on myth and folktales to explain things, and knowing what you do at the end of the novel would make puzzling your way through these even more enjoyable.It's too bad, then, that this discussion has to share half of this short, short book with a terribly stupid love story.
If my poetic skill has not convinced you, perhaps what's in this story will tempt you enough: a low-technology future; a small-scale, rural feeling; a love for life, simple things, and details; a unique and strangely fascinating society; an indescribable affection for stories, books, knowledge, life; a heart-wrenching, bitter-sweet ending you cannot imagine.
I put out a few aspects of the story I remembered and some suggested this could be it.
Crowley's style is fairly distinct, and once you get used to it, the pages just fly by.
I don't know exactly how a writer can make me feel melancholy and nostalgic for a time and place I have never been, but Crowley does it with this one.
I stop just short of calling this a must read though, as it seems to leave off just where I was REALLY curious what was next...
Guess I will have to read Little Big and see if it ties in the way some folks suggest.
If I had to choose one book to convince a skeptical English professor of the power of speculative fiction, this would be it.
John Crowley has spectacular talent, no question, but in too much of his work (i.e. Aegypt) it's wasted on aimless new-age musings while the story goes slowly nowhere.
Engine Summer is stuffed with ideas and themes enough to fuel a book five times as long, but they are all in service to the protagonist's story and what it says about human nature and human needs.
I've never read a book simultaneously this smart and this readable.
This is a John Crowley book, so I will read it again and again, each time finding I have more to learn, and love. I found this slow going despite the short length, but that is typical of Crowley at least in my experience - more a reflection of my desire to relish his writing than any difficulty in the reading. Having typed that, I look forward to re-readings and catching all of the nuances I'm sure I missed this time around. Post-apocalyptic, beautiful and devastating.
Engine Summer (1979) its protagonist finds that his life in a dying Post-Holocaust but Pastoral USA is nothing but a Memory interminably replayed and that he himself is no more than a crystal device replaying those memories on command exudes a cruel melancholy.

Another dusty mm pb... what was I thinking when I picked this up wherever in heck I did? More power to you if you like this kind of thing, but it's not for me. Oh it feels so good to get rid of these books that I've hauled around several homes in CC... now that we're headed all the way to MO, I've no more excuses to try to read stuff I'm not really interested in.
The only Crowley book I've read that gets sublime in the first 20 pages instead of the last 20 -- and that's coming from the very same mind best known for Little, Big, which I think I call "maniacally subtle" in my review.
This is not maniacally subtle, but it's delightfully crafted and makes me ache with poignant joy.
If you read Little, Big think of this as a sweet sad story about those who didn't make it into that story's conclusion, who were trapped in the world outside.

Engine Summer is evidently one of those "Marmite" books - you either love it, or you don't.
Unfortunately I fall into the latter category, finding it quite hard to follow.
A frustrating and difficult read, it's easy to lose track of what's going on.
I've heard it called poetic and beautiful, but sadly for me, it was just confusing.I found this book to lean more towards fantasy rather than science fiction.
However, there is some lovely imagery in the writing, and the scenario is very interesting indeed - there are some great 'visual' moments and some lovely ideas, sadly marred by the cumbersome and confusing dialogue.
I was worried, after I wolfed down Great Work of Time too quickly to get any real taste of it, that this capacity was expressed only in that book.
In his world, a millenium after an ambiguous collapse called The Storm, everyone models the narrative of their life with stories of Saints in the time of the Storm, builds their homes with objects built by the angels.
When Rush encounters the Avvengers near the end of the book, the contrast between the values the Long League had nurtured and those of their industrial predecessors is put in stark relief.
it is just...Engine Summer is the third novel by John Crowley.
It is definitely at this point that he begins to become the writer that would later write the better known novel: Little, Big. There is quite a bit similar between Little, Big and Engine Summer.
Engine Summer also marks the end of John Crowley as a science fiction writer.
(the exact location is never mentioned in the novel, but when in doubt, it's New York in John Crowley's writings).
greater, perhaps.Aside from being a fantastic novel, Engine Summer could actually act as a treatise to the writing style of John Crowley.
Engine Summer is the most beautiful post-apocalyptic novel I've ever read.
That may sound like faint praise given that that particular sub-genre isn't generally known for its beauty or lyricism (although come to think of it, I would describe the great classic of the sub-genre A Canticle for Leibowitz in such terms), but it is also one of the most beautifully written works of science fiction I've yet to read.
Just know that Engine Summer is a novel of sensitivity, emotional depth and literary grace that nevertheless also delivers the kind of intriguing ideas, extrapolations, and explorations that are the hallmarks of SF.
This is probably one of the most beautiful books I've read; which isn't to say it's always interesting, because it isn't, and at times it can be downright slow.
I can't say I always enjoyed reading it, it's not a page-turner, and I didn't want to come back to it every night - and yet...
(There's also a precise and apt extended metaphor for Time at one point, which is the most amazing paragraph I've read in years...) I feel better for having read it than I enjoyed the experience of reading; but it's a unique experience either way, and well worth checking out.
Sometimes a character in book can become your friend.
In that way Rush-that-Speaks has become a friend to me.
Rush-that-Speaks takes journey across what was our country, but is now a wide open land with isolated small communities living here and there, and long-deserted freeways that go from one side to the other and back again.
Interestingly enough, RTS takes this journey with the mind of cat.
[What?!] Yes, the mind of cat.
If you've ever wandered, especially by yourself cross country (as I have), or if you've ever been a cat, I cannot recommend this book enough.
Brilliant,unsettling,even the humour in this post-apocolyptic story of stories is chilling. LikeRussell Hobans Riddley Walkerthis book is best read fast enough not to get bogged down in WTF moments. The writing is a delight.Especially intuiging to me is the new clan system at New Belaire. If we could learn how to Be Truthful Speakers,maybe we might be able to learn from JCs cautions.
Brilliant,unsettling,even the humour in this post-apocolyptic story of stories is chilling. LikeRussell Hobans Riddley Walkerthis book is best read fast enough not to get bogged down in WTF moments. The writing is a delight.Especially intuiging to me is the new clan system at New Belaire. If we could learn how to Be Truthful Speakers,maybe we might be able to learn from JC´s cautions.
I'm re-reading this again, as I do every few years.
It's eerily beautiful, a puzzle that twists and turns, reveals itself and then shifts into something new.
With the frankness of a small child, it makes profound observations on human nature and on our love affair with technology.
The book reads like poetry, evoking emotions and images that linger long after the book is back on the shelf.
Give yourself time to savor this book.
And give yourself time to read it twice.
When I first reached the last few pages, my eyes widened, and I turned immediately to the first page.
There are layers to this book.
This is one of those rare novels that will either change you forever, or leave you cold and wondering why you've wasted your time. If you look at my star rating, you'll know what it did for me. Crowley writes beautiful prose, and it's possibe to get lost in it , which normally drives me crazy, but it makes Engine Summer feel like something special, a sacred little book. It will uproot you; you'll find yourself looking back at the brief moment you were alive and realizing that one day it will be ancient history. A heartbreaking, fascinating book.
Poetic and complex. I guess that you will appreciate more the story of Rush once you know how it ends. Then, you will be able to fully comprehend all of his inner turmoils and his passionate narration. Why his quest was so important and what he wanted to achieve through it. Did he achieve it at the end ? A part of him surely did! I think that a second read it's mandatory, after all the greatest part in this book are the Snake-hands.
Half the reviews say this book is boring and not worth your time.The other half seem to view it as a narrow door into a deeply strange and interesting world. Im in the second group. This book haunts me always, I love it very much.
Lyrical, moving, haunting. One of the best ten science fiction books ever written.
scion of commune-warren brimming with Capitalised Nouns chases crush across postapocalyptic USA, has a story to tell.EDIT: ps, it's good
