https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19161882-texas-by-the-tail
The human condition, it seems to Thompson, is one in which we are always almost there, always getting close and some lucky few may pass the gates, but the rest of us will be chewed to bits by the great grinder.All of this probably comes back to his father who made and lost a fortune in the Texas oil boom, while he watched his peers get richer and more sinister.
Saddled with Teddy, a wife who wants lots of money to divorce him, he leaves for Texas in an attempt to win big at gambling at the expense of the rich.
He has money stashed in a variety of safe deposit boxes -- a hustler needs a substantial stake, but Red likes to live high and his stash is running low.
Another of the drain on his finances is his son, whom he has enrolled in an elite and expensive boarding school, there' and the money he sends his wife, partly out of guilt, partly because he doesn't want her to reveal to Red that he's still married.
My favorite line in this book "all he had was his pants and his ass and they both had holes".
Stories about con men with troubled relationships with women, including the older women who serve as fill ins for the protagonist's unusual relationship with a floozy mother.Short of the surface-level thematic overlap, Texas by the Tail stands on its own.
I get the feeling Thompson would love Texas if not for the frauds who make up its high-society.It's a different underbelly of society than we're used to seeing in other pulp works or noir fiction.
But make no mistake, there's danger and thrills to be found in this world, especially for a gambler who knows to expertly throw a pair of dice.Mitch Corley, our dice chucker, reminds me of an every-man version of Thompson's protagonists.
Funny how 70% of the characters in this Jim Thompson novel found their way into True Detective season two.
Not only is the narrative making use of multiple storylines but the imagery and very opening of the chapters seem like establishing shots.* For anyone who lived in Texas in the early 1960s, I don't think there has ever been such an insightful portrait of the era or its hustlers and big shots as in this book.* The novel is also a virtual geography lesson, running from Ft. Worth to Houston to Dallas and out to West Texas and Big Spring.
The ending is a cop-out and a disappointment.
Great story with a very weak, unsatisfactory ending.
I haven't read anything prior to this by the author but after doing so I would be interested to do s
Jim Thompson has an over the top quality that is one of the core values of his writing.
Texas by the Tail is not an exemplar of that style.
This is more in the vein of The Grifters, my personal favorite.Thompson is known for his punchy, no nonsense prose and his gritty take on humanity.
Thompson expended a great fraction of this novel on characterization down to the secondary characters.
This is the strength of the novel.
The story wobbles across Texas and ends when Thompson thought he had enough pages.
Another stroke of Thompson's style.
There's some sort of story trying to be told here, but it never quite breaks through.
Probably better that way.
Just let this collection of odd balls and hard cases carom off each for a couple hundred pages before they call it a day.Reading Thompson is like playing pinball: you're immersed in a noisy, garish, violent, over-the-top world.
Everything is accelerated.
Causes and effects link up ...
Crash bang thwap!
Stuff doesn't always add up.
Flash, wee-ooh, wee-ooh!
Things don't necessarily make sense.
Ba-dee, ba-dee, ba-doo, ba-doo, ba-doop!
Your hair turns pink ...
Time to go home.
Mow the yard.
I recently re-read this book and remembered liking it more than I did the second time. Possibly the least "hard-boiled" of Thompson's books and not nearly as dark as the writing he is known for. I would never suggest this as an introduction to Jim Thompson. It's more of a supplement to the style of writing that he fathered. Still it is a testament to Thompson's extensive knowledge of certain facets of fringe or underworld culture such as shooting dice.
Crisp writing, engaging characters, and what twists and turns. This was my first experience with Thompson's writing, but it certainly won't be my last.
My favorite Thompson of them all. Just good fun.
Starts strong, but meanders towards an unsatisfying finish -- definitely not one of Thompson's finest.
Not ranked as one of Thompson's best, but the first book I read by him. It hooked me on Thompson and the genre and it still lists as one of my favorite Thompson books
4 stars instead of 5 only because I don't like happy endings. I prefer when Thompson writes in his bleak grim noir style. Although it's still a great book
.
One of my favorite Jim Thompson stories. Even despite the happy ending.
Thanks again for the book, Roger.My first Thompson. Maybe not the best place to start, but I'm already inside and enjoying it.
