https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/280988.The_Nursing_Home_Murder
When dealing with nobility, it is best to mind your manners:"'I asked you to come and see me,' she began very quietly, 'because I believe my husband to have been murdered.Fox did not speak for a moment.
Don't try for pretentious with the police:"'Do you know that Sir Derek O'Callaghan was probably murdered?''My Gawd, yes.''Yes...
Really, it's very difficult when you happen to be involved with both."Alright, Christie she ain't--though the mystery is full of red herrings, including a group of Bolsheviks, it resorts to an ultimately ridiculous solution--but Marsh does write an entertaining story.
The dialogue, characters, and setting are all interesting and entertaining.
3.5★I'm starting to see a pattern - I prefer Marsh's crime novels when they have a theatrical setting.But this title has a very authentic feel.
It was co-written with Marsh's gynaecologist, Henry Jellet (he gets an author credit on my edition.) You can almost smell the antiseptic.
So the hospital setting felt fine.Even the political world felt real.
For me, that is always a plus.My edition old enough to feature one mildly racist comment.Edit; Just in case some overly zealous librarian removes Jellet's name from the book - on my 1970 Fontana he is credited as co author of the book
I mean, I still enjoyed it, and I'm liking Alleyn and Fox, but felt this novel was a little weaker than the first two.
I said I wasn't going to read number 3 straight away as I didn't want to overdose on Alleyn just to play catch up, but I was enjoying these so much I went ahead.
So is my 3 stars a result of this overdose or not.
I shall seriously take a break this time before number 4 and we shall see.
To add to Sir Derek’s problems, a casual affair he recently, has been taken very seriously by the young woman, now a nurse, who has taken to sending him impassioned, and threatening, letters.
Complicating matters still more is the fact that his friend, and doctor, Sir John Phillips, is in love with her.When Sir Derek collapses in the House of Commons, he is taken off to the nursing home to have an emergency operation.
In the operating theatre is, of course, Sir John Phillips, the young nurse he had an affair with and at least one person with communist leanings.
I'm not into her detective character at all -- there's been too little personality and depth, just a lot of surface shine -- and the structure is now formulaic.
Set-up for a murder with many potential motives -> murder which is very awkward for lots of people -> Alleyn investigates without explaining much to anyone -> Alleyn has a reconstruction done -> this flushes out the murderer, who incriminates himself without need for a trial, and who is the least suspected person -> an epilogue in which Alleyn explains everything.I have got the next three books now, though.
I’ve read nearly two dozen of Ngaio Marsh’s wonderful novels featuring Roderick Alleyn, a detective inspector and the younger son of a baronet, but somehow I managed to skip The Nursing Home Murder, the third novel in the series.
Thanks to Uncle Silas for pointing that out, and I’ve now remedied the situation.In this novel, first released in 1935, Sir Derek O’Callaghan, the English Home Secretary, is rushed to the hospital for unbearable abominable pains only to die soon after his operation.
(hide spoiler)] A worthwhile read for Dame Ngaio’s aficionados, but others should skip this one.
A singularly cold and dull mystery finished off with a ridiculous solution.
I'm reading through the Inspector Alleyn mysteries in order with the Reading the Detectives group at Goodreads.
This third mystery is the best yet, with Alleyn really starting to come into his own as a character.
The title could be a bit misleading to contemporary readers, suggesting the book is set in a care home.
In fact, though, the setting is a private hospital, well before the arrival of the NHS.
Posh journalist Nigel Bathgate, Alleyn's "Boswell" in the first two books, does appear again, together with his girlfriend Angela, but I get the feeling they are starting to be edged out.
To add to Sir Derek’s problems, a casual affair he recently, has been taken very seriously by the young woman, now a nurse, who has taken to sending him impassioned, and threatening, letters.
Complicating matters still more is the fact that his friend, and doctor, Sir John Phillips, is in love with her.When Sir Derek collapses in the House of Commons, he is taken off to the nursing home to have an emergency operation.
In the operating theatre is, of course, Sir John Phillips, the young nurse he had an affair with and at least one person with communist leanings.
Hyoscine a strange drug and curiously I looked it up. I liked Alleyn and Fox and the plot was good but I preferred Dead Water and one set around Shakespeare themes. I am going to stick with Marsh as I like her style but she is no Agatha Christie. I enjoyed the us versus them class war which is evident in Marsh’s fixation on reds under the bed. Disguises, dysfunctional family members, madness, atmospheric London and a lot of red herrings. A good read.
"The Nursing Home Murder" is not perhaps one of her best books.
The investigation into the murder is led by Chief Detective Inspector Roderick Alleyn, a professional policeman, who appears in most of Marsh's novels.
I give nothing away when I tell you that he does, of course, get to the bottom of the events depicted in the story.Although not one of Ngaio Marsh's best books, "The Nursing Home Murder" is a reasonably good read.
This early Marsh novel has all the good things she cultivated for so many years in her writing: smooth, complex plots, gently satirical but evocative snapshots of all sorts of people in her rareified sort of circle, a decent pace, and most of the classic elements (i.e., fair play, lots of suspects, each with a perfectly viable and well-presented motive, and a "gather the suspects" moment at the end).
This early novel has, however, a few things she, happily, quickly outgrew - a slight tendency towards "cute!!", a dim reporter/Watson and his adorable fiance, Bolshie plots, and a peculiar Russian manservant for Alleyn.
I am very happy to see that they are coming out as ebooks (this is the second one available through my library).At the insistence of the deceased wife, Inspector Alleyn is puzzling over the death of the Home Secretary who died after an emergency operation.
His wife insists that the HS was murdered by the Anarchists and Communists who were threatening him.
Chief Inspector Alleyn is trying to keep an open mind as he wrestles with personalities, threatening letters, infidelity, personal vendettas, illicit drugs.
I love the classics because of the personalities and language, such as Inspector Alleyn using the word "tummy" during his investigation.
The Bolshevik's have reared their ugly heads again (see A Man Lay Dead) and have been sending death threats to Sir Derek Callaghan, the Home Secretary.
Nor are they aware of Nurse Harden who will be in the operating room--a woman who has recently been cast aside as Sir Derek's mistress and is the reason for Sir John's animosity.
Lady O'Callaghan's fears are proved to be well-founded when the p.m. reveals that Sir Derek died from an overdose of hyoscine.It doesn't take Alleyn and Inspector Fox long to ferret out all the motives, but they have difficulty pinpointing the opportunity.
The Nursing Home Murders by Ngaio Marsh.This was my first Ngaio Marsh/Inspector Alleyn mystery I've read in book form.
Unfortunately Sir Derek O'Callaghan waited a bit too late and dies shortly after the surgery.
But is that all to this death?Lady O'Callaghan doesn't believe Sir Derek died of natural causes and employs Inspector Alleyn to do some investigating.
First off she makes known letters of a threatening nature sent to her husband which the Inspector acknowledges.This book was written by one of the most renown British writers of mysteries during the gold age of mysteries.
Sir Derek O’Callaghan, Home Secretary of England, has been too anxiously pushing through an anti-anarchy bill in Parliament to deal with the growing pain in his stomach in 1935’s The Nursing Home Murder by Ngaio Marsh.
Collapsing at the introduction of the bill, O’Callaghan gets rushed to the nursing home of Sir John Phillips with a ruptured appendix, needing emergency surgery.
Sir Derek gets taken right into surgery against the urgings of Sir John, who encourages Lady O’Callaghan to get a different surgeon.
The surgery seems to be a success, but an hour later Sir Derek lies dead.Read the rest of this review and other fun, geeky articles at Fangirl Nation
What a refreshing change from Heyer's Inspector Hemmingway, with his caustic tongue and plain rudeness to people! Inspector Alleyn has a keen mind and impeccable manners and he dignifies others around him no matter their station in life. And let's not forget the redoubtable Fox as he assists Alleyn. I like their interactions and dialogue with one another. I am truly enjoying this series.
Not the best in her mystery series, "The Nursing Home Murder", although not a lengthy read, was slow-moving for me. The author attempts to illustrate how unlikely it would be for murder in the setting of a sterile hospital operating room (no fingerprints!). However she becomes a little too technical with the procedures (this syringe, that syringe. This anesthetic, this amount, that amount to be given at this time, that time...) for the reader. Characters were not as realistically drawn and it was quite easy to spot the suspect.
Another great read by one of the masters of the British golden age mystery, Ngaio Marsh. Don't be misled by the "nursing home" in the title........in England, a nursing home is a hospital for patients recovering from surgery or illness. In this case, the Home Secretary dies mysteriously after emergency surgery and the list of suspects ranges from Communists to pharmacists. Roderick Alleyn and his faithful partner in detection. Fox, are on the case and the game is afoot. Add this one to your mystery collection.
Most enjoyable mystery in the grand old tradition. Inspector Alleyn is a cool, smart Scotland Yard inspector with a solid assistant in Fox. Also has two old friends from his first book, Nigel and Angela. The mystery is interesting, involving the murder of a Conservative politician on the operating table. Lots of interesting suspects, twists and turns, involving a failed romance, Bolshevists, etc. Super story and well-crafted.
Alleyn is the inspector in this case. And it's a "closed room" mystery, for the most part. Only that room was an operating theater. There were numerous characters but I never got to their heart or personality. Not enough depth in the characterizations for the possible culprit, IMHO. These are like stilted, and much cozier Christie without the wit or the delicate insights into character and motive. The writing is clear and the overall portrayal for the genre, average.
In The Nursing Home Murder, which actually takes place in a hospital, we finally get to see a more polished Alleyn.
The mystery revolves around an overdose of hyoscine and the surgery room details get a little confusing, between the syringes, ampoules and measurements, three different nurses and three doctors, which I guess justifies the need for the reconstruction.The secondary characters in this one weren’t as good as in others, but I like the larger role Fox plays and how the interactions between Alleyn and him are starting to become what I’m used to in the later ones.
This is one of the disappointments from Ngaio Marsh. I read it as March-read for the yearly detective fiction challenge but I was really disillusioned this time. The two books written before this were a lot better. Niether the nursing home setting nor the operation theatre murder succeeded in catching my interest.For me the book was boring with a dragging storyline and a completely predictable solution. Hoping better from the April-read which is next in line
Sir Derek O'Callaghan, the Home Secretary, falls ill with suspected appendicitis and is rushed to a private hospital.
Chief Detective Inspector Alleyn investigates and finds that the surgeon and the theatre nurse both had reason to hate Sir Derek.
They were not the only ones - he was also introducing a Bill to strengthen the penalties against anarchist groups and had received threats - and Alleyn soon finds further connections to the O'Callaghan family.This is a classic Golden Age mystery, with a neat cast of suspects and a clever plot.
I admit I didn't try to solve the mystery; I just enjoyed reading the book and letting it wash over me. The solution was a bit ridiculous but I didn't mind.
I enjoyed this book, the third in the Alleyn series.
I'd say it was slightly less enjoyable than Enter a Murderer (No 2) and much better than A Man Lay Dead (No 1).
The plot seemed relatively straightforward, with the man to be murdered known right near the beginning.
It is surely unlikely that a detective would invite a journalist along to share the case and equally unlikely that Alleyn would trust him not to reveal any of the facts until allowed to do so.I did enjoy the book, but felt slightly alienated by the various odd phrases used, which must either be cultural references that went over my head, or contemporary phrases which are no longer in use.
Eventually, he collapses in the House of Commons and is rushed to hospital, where he dies during the operation.The first - and biggest - coincidence is that the surgeon, who has been O'Callaghan's doctor for a long time, has just bitterly argued with him about his treatment of an ex-mistress, and sent him a letter a couple of days earlier full of threats.
The pre-NHS private hospital setting is interesting as a little piece of social history, but that is really the best that can be said for The Nursing Home Murder.
In this, he remarks that the victim's wife may well be made out of marble, and that implies that she seems somehow so cold as to be inhuman, but I don't feel that these books do a hugely great job of humanizing *him*.The only humanizing traits in this were the occasional reading acts of Hamlet (which also feels a bit on the nose for an aristocratic British detective), and the distaste he seems to find in identifying and arresting a murder.
I dunno, compare him to Lord Peter, who at least had the false foolishness going on, and his relationship with Bunter in the early books.
I enjoyed The Nursing Home Murder, but for all the wrong reasons.
The mystery was okay, but the reoccuring characters made the story for me.
I'm so glad Marsh hasn't forgotten about the characters, such as Vassily and Angela North, from her earlier novels.
Marsh's characters are slowly but surely becoming people, with Fox learning French and Alleyn reading Hamlet, and that puts a smile on my face.
Now as for the mystery I found the Communist subplot to be more entertaining than the nursing home murder.
Oh look, fluff with communists and eugenics. Disability tag in the typically bad way. Extremely fast and mostly ridiculous light reading. Some of the social commentary specific to the time is nice, though?
