https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/543760.The_Oppermanns
Introduction, by Ruth GruberAuthor's Note--The OppermannsThe New York Times Book Review, by Fred T. March (March 18, 1934)
A superb and surprising novel, written in the first year Hitler was Chancellor (1933) and yet capturing in frightening detail the horrors that were to come.
Feuchtwanger did not anticipate the Holocaust but he did see clearly how the Nazi terror against Jews would evolve and how Jews would react in largely inadequate ways.Since THE OPPERMANNS was published in 1934, I can use it in my novel (the sequel to A Flood of Evil) covering the same period.
At least one of my major characters (Anna) would have access to the book and in Germany, Berthold could well have seen the NYT review published in early 1934.
I think Feuchtwanger's perspective can be used to stimulate serious introspection and discussions.
The historical time period of this book, that of the initial stages of the persecution of Jews, reminds me of two other books I have reviewed: The Death of My Adversary by Hans Keilson, and The Discontinuity of Small Things by Kevin Haworth, the latter about Jews in Denmark during the early occupation of that country by the Germans.
The novel follows the Oppermanns, a well-to-do extended German Jewish family who own the premier furniture store in Berlin.
Slander in the newspapers incited Germans against certain Jews criticized by name, such as a medical researcher conducting “experiments on Aryans.” Customers in the furniture store refused to be served by Jewish salesmen.
I cannot say it any better than the New York Times. "Extraordinary....No single historical or fictional work has more tellingly or insightfully depicted... the insidious manner in which Nazism began to permeate the fabric of German society than Lion Feuchtwanger's great novel." The Jewish owners of a furniture company and one of their sons face pressures in 1933 Germany.
Feuchtwanger's novel is a moving story of a Jewish families in 1930s Germany who are divided in their views about how to respond to both the actual physical and economic threats from the rising National Socialist movement.
As the book begins the Nazis were gaining more political control and the cultural and economic environment was beginning to change in Germany because of it.
Most of all this historical novel captured the cultural and political changes that made possible the burning of books and display of "degenerate art".
Excellent. Details a work of art for each character.
Gustav eventually makes the decision to return to Germany under a false identity and see for himself just what is happening and to records these things.
Feuchtwanger had himself taken refuge in Paris when Hitler became chancellor of Germany and friends warned him not to return home – the Nazis had already been searched his home and he was on the list of banned books that were subsequently burned.
This accessibility would have a great deal of appeal to a high school age reader interested in history, or those who simply like historical novels.
Finished in 1934, The Oppermanns predicts the future of Germany: a band of irrational Nazi cultists has infiltrated the country's infrastructure, teachers are replaced by cheer-leaders for Hitler, Jewish shops change their ownership or are destroyed, and faith (in government) replaces reason.
Each member of the Oppermann family approaches the problem differently, but they all share the irrefutable knowledge that something dark is growing inside Germany.
Hitler was not brought into power by the malicious whims of a blood-hungry race; he grabbed much of his power by banking on the indifference of an entire continent.
This is one of my favorite books, and it is grippingly relevant.
The book so well-written and has made upon me deep impression.It's tells about Germany,1933,when Nazis came to power.Major characters are a rich Jewish family. The book describes their destiny.It is read easily though It asks so many important moral questions.I loved this book and it's very much recommended!
A moving and prescient book. Written in 1934, it describes Germany being destroyed by the barbarians. I re-read it after seeing it referenced by Primo Levi. It describes truths both large and small.
Incredible and harrowing book.
Amazing that this book was written in 1934. Even the most pessimistic people could not have imagined how bad things would really get and how long it would last.
Really good reading... It presents a panorama of Germany of 1930-s and the Nazi "invasion" of people's minds. Those more "flexible" survived (physically, not spiritually sometimes)others lost. NB: As it always happens during social and economical catastrophes, collapses, ups and downs...
The Oppermanns by Lion FeuchtwangerI've always been a bit obsessed with WWII and a few years ago I set myself a project of reading fiction that was written just as Nazism was taking hold in Germany.
The Oppermanns was still unread on my shelf when our own politics-as-usual started to become quite unusual and my project became personal.
Feuchtwanger was a bestselling author and this is the testament and call to resistance he wrote after being driven out of Germany in 1933.
The Oppermanns is not just an eerie echo of today's news, but also a heartening reminder that some will defend the truth at all costs.
"The Oppermanns" by Lion Feutchtwanger follows the story of a German Jewish family in the 1930s, the years right before Hitler comes to power.
It is a story of a multi-generational Jewish family struggling to come to terms with the approaching reality of the new Germany, of the end of their old lives, and what they will do when they've lost everything.
Throughout the book, it switches perspectives between brothers Gustav, Martin, and Martin's son Berthold Oppermann.
Overall, I highly recommend "The Oppermanns," especially if you enjoy novels about World War II, because I'm sure you've never heard of a book like this before.
Epperò nel MK c'era scritto chiaro e tondo il manifesto di Hitler, non se lo è inventato DOPO essere andato al potere lo sterminio degli ebrei, era un punto fermo del programma, è andato al potere anche per quello.
Martin, Gustav, Edgar e la sorella Klara, sposata a un ebreo americano, riflettono magistralmente quel ceto medio-alto ebreo che ha visto arrivare la tempesta ma prima non ci ha creduto, poi non ha creduto al "proprio a me" e poi al "fino a questo punto?".
První antifašistická kniha, kterou Adolf nechal hned spálit.
Napsána roku 1934, vykresluje rodinu čtyř nechutně bohatejch židů, který vlastní německou ikeu.
Feuchtwanger je popisuje jako totální retardy - kluk ze třídy, kterej je blbej jak krabice vod bot, soused brambora, vozíčkáři v hnědý košili a podobný.
Se vlastně moc nedivím, že to tehdy spadlo hitlerovi do kamen.V roce 1934 si feuchtwanger jeste nepřipouštěl apokalypsu, která následovala.
V těchdle letech Židy jen vyhazovali z tramvaji a posílali stavět silnice a přežívala naděje, že je cela ta doba jen blbá fáze, která během roka pomine, protože přece lidi nemůžou bejt takový kurvy.
Feuchtwanger prostě jen nechtěl spoilerovat.
The novel was written in 1933 when no one could know what was going to happen in Germany. Things were already bad, which the novel tells us, and it is a terrible experience to read about it knowing what we know. You want to yell at them, shake them and make them see. It’s painful to read about how they trust the system, the moral and the good will of all men when in fact there is no good men left, no civilisation and no humanity.
A fascinating book of a culture, represented by the Oppermanns, facing barbarians within the gates. The characters are varied and believable. That the author wrote this and got it published in near real time in the 1930s with such prescience is amazing.
5 stars? Incredible that this book was written in.....1933......a must read for all to witness Germany in that period.
too close for comfort
hard to find, but worth it. reminds me of a slaid cleeves lyric, "everything you have will be taken away."
Al fin, después de mucho tiempo pude terminar de leer este libro y en verdad fue muy pesado leerlo, porque cada 5 páginas me terminaba enojando y casi me arrancaba los cabellos de la cabeza; sin embargo, es triste saber que probablemente esto en verdad paso. En este momento no daré detalles, haré una entrada en mi blog esperando explicarme.
Die Geschwister Oppermann repräsentieren das gutbürgerliche Judentum - trotz aller Vorsicht von der Machtübernahme der Nazis überrascht. Feuchtwanger zeigt in seinen Figuren alle Facetten der Reaktion - eine Charakterstudie eines ganzen Landes.
