https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/588002.A_Very_Long_Engagement
This novel has all the elements of a tear jerker: soldiers cruelly sentenced to a horrible death during WWI, a lost lover, and a physically handicapped protagonist. HOWEVER, Sébastien Japrisot deftly avoids the mawkish, and skilfully presents an interesting and intricately plotted tale.
Ovaj francuski roman spada u grupu mojih najomiljenijih "uredničkih" postignuća... Nesvakidašnji, čudnovat, ljudski... ratni roman i sudbine običnih ljudi... I ah, da, ta ljubav... na francuski način :) Sjajna ekranizacija romana, sjajna muzika iz filma... :)
A moving love story, a terrible account of the horrors of the Great War, a criminal investigation full of surprises, a panoramic view of France before, during and in the aftermath of the war – this novel has it all and Japrisot weaves the different threads with a mastery that made one reviewer compare it to the famous epic of Tolstoy – “War and Peace”.
Most of all, Mathilde writes letters and visits the relatives of the other four men who shared the fate of Manech on that desperate January morning, sent out into the no-man’s land between German and French trenches by their own comrades.It’s not easy to write an epistolary novel using multiple voices.
Ευτυχώς για εμένα που δεν μπορώ τους πολέμους και την φρίκη τους, το βιβλίο διαδραματίζεται λίγο μετά τον πόλεμο, έτσι λοιπόν όταν στο βιβλίο γίνεται αναφορά σε μάχη, πάντα γίνεται ως κομμάτι της λύσης του μυστηρίου και όχι για να προκαλέσει πόνο, έτσι λοιπόν κ ο αναγνώστης, αυτή την αναφορά αυτόματα την λαμβάνει ως μέρος αυτής της λύσης προσπερνώντας οποιοδήποτε συναίσθημα πέρα της περιέργειας για το τι τελικά έχει συμβεί.Η γλώσσα είναι υπέροχη, η αφήγηση μαγευτική (ναι το ξέρω ότι επαναλαμβάνομαι).
Little by little, over ten years, she learns odds and ends of details of what actually happened to him.We learn right at the beginning of the novel that so many soldiers were deserting and getting self-inflicted wounds that army officers decided to make an example of five such men.
Instead of shooting them by firing squad, they forced them out unarmed and bound between the French and German trenches at night in a bitter snowstorm.
She places announcements in newspapers to get more information and hires a detective and the family lawyer to help out.
Except that if you have been following the comments I have been making about it at diverse places at GR you will have noted that I have been annoyed, exasperated and at wits' end as I read this book!
To achieve that, I would have to listen to the whole thing from start to finish a second time.At the end it occurred to me that perhaps the author is indeed making a point with all this confusion, particularly with the different names and identities.
Mathilde, who is looking for her fiancé, hoping that he has survived WW1, is portrayed very differently in the French movie and in the translated audiobook.
La guerra, l'amore, la morte, la vita.Quanto ho amato questo libro.Ho cercato il film che ne è stato tratto inseguendolo nelle videoteche finché non è uscito.Mette di fronte all'inutilità e all'assurdità della guerra attraverso l'amore, la follia, l'inganno.Come ho letto in un altro commento, ogni personaggio meriterebbe una storia tutta sua, perché quello che riusciamo a sapere di loro non riesce a bastarci, ma solo ad aumentare il rimpianto.
O carte despre hotărârea unei femei de a afla adevarul cu privire la soarta logodnicului sau dispărut pe front. O munca demnă de un detectiv, secrete ieșite la iveală, adevăruri mușamalizare și ororile războiului. Toate îmbinate intr-o poveste captivanta, plină de emoție, cu mult suspans.
Instead of facing the firing squad, their sentence was to be sent over the top into No Mans' land to await their discovery by the Germans.The novel is mostly taken up with the story of one young woman, Mathilde Donnay, who was engaged to the youngest of the five.
A determined woman, she tries to learn the truth of what happened that day.I have read a few books of late where I didn't like any of the characters.
But while "the five" had reached their breaking point, there were heroes as well.
I recall being profoundly moved by this book, and the turmoil of its characters. I read it many, many years ago (likely around the time of the film release) and enjoyed it so much more than I expected. It's well written and creates a really beautiful story.
Nos encontramos en el contexto histórico de la Primera Guerra Mundial.Qué pasó exactamente con estos cinco soldados es una incógnita que se vuelve obsesiva para Matilde Donnay quien se pasará la vida buscando por todos los medios que esté a su alcance la verdad sobre el sábado 6 y domingo 7 de enero de ese año.
And I loved the main character, Mathilde, more than just about any character in any book I've ever read.
Mathilde, despite her sarcasm and pig-headedness seems to inspire devotion in everyone she meets.
How can you not admire her devotion to Manech?
And the mystery of what happened to Manech and four other soldiers who were thrown into No-Man's Land by their own leaders keeps you reading on and on.
As time goes on she gets closer to solving the mystery by meeting people who are closer to what finally happened to Manech.
This is such a wonderful story of love and devotion, but don't worry, it never gets sappy.
”Singurul stăpân al lumii este timpul.”
Desde então o seu destino é incerto.Por isso, quando Jean desaparece, Mathilde busca incansavelmente a verdade, recusando-se a abrir mão do seu estatuto de noiva, e é essa a procura que acompanhamos ao longo do livro, em que ela escrutina a vida dos quatro soldados e a tudo o que possa trazer um rasgo de luz às suas incertezas.O autor consegue alimentar o suspense até à última página, já que a perseverante investigação de Mathilde, desvendando pistas e sofrendo revezes, leva-nos a ansiar com ela, pelo seu tamanho esforço, com o surgimento da peça final do puzzle.
A adaptação cinematográfica, da responsabilidade de Jean-Pierre Jeunet, foi das mais fiéis que até hoje vi, sem divergências essenciais em relação à história do livro.
Nu prea știu unde să o încadrez exact, undeva între roman polițist și dramă amestecată cu romantism, dar nu un romantism dulce-dulce, ci unul din vremuri apuse, când oamenii foloseau scrisori și credeau în așteptarea omului iubit.
O logodnă foarte lungă este, de fapt, (despre) o căutare foarte lungă, o iubire care transcede timpul, frontul și tot ce îi stă în cale și care se agață de orice ar putea anula pierderea persoanei iubite.
Recenzia aici: https://sandradeaconu.blogspot.com/20....,, Pe deasupra, în război, fiecare are colțișorul lui de griji, mizerii mărunte, mici bucurii, nu vezi decât frânturi din ce se petrece și nu mai departe de sfârșitul corvezii de moment.
It opens promisingly enough: on a dark January night in 1917, five soldiers are hauled up to the bizarrely named Bingo Crépuscule trench and forced into No Man’s Land as punishment for wounding themselves in order to get out of the war.
She embarks on a search to trace anyone who might know what actually happened, a search made both more difficult and more interesting by her physical limitations (she’s wheelchair bound) and the devastation of post-war France.Mathilde’s search is certainly intriguing, if a bit circuitous.
Also intriguing are the unfolding stories of the five soldiers' lives and war time service.
However, some of the characters are a bit coarse.
the movie was perfect!!!I see how the book plays out!!!
Lessons will be Learned; People will Change; Morals will be Passed on.(view spoiler)[I read the last 20 pages or so and looks like I was right--Mathilde does find Manech, but he has lost his memory, so she leaves him in his new life.
There is no way I can force myself to read another page, and with so many other better books out there, I am going to pass on this one.HOWEVER, just because I didn't like it, doesn't mean it's horrible.
This was a wonderful novel -- with fascinating characters, a good mystery, plus an interwoven love story.I learned a lot about WWI in France, about France during that time period, and about French geography.What is remarkable about this novel is the way thatthe clues are many tiny snippets of information,told by different people in different ways.
Over the years, the protagonist gathers these snippets (often helped by her many assistants) and fits themtogether.
Reading the book requires careful attention.I thought of a lecture by Bob Woodward that I attended where he discussed how he does research for his books:he does many hours of interviews and investigation,fills files with the results, and then goes backand painstakingly puts all the tiny bits together tomake something out of it.
I left it a good couple of years between watching the film and reading the book 'cause I wished to forget much of the plot and enjoy the story anew, and I was glad I did this.This was quite different to most books I read normally, but it was enjoyable indeed - an interesting and complex tale of a young French woman trying to get to the bottom of what happened to her fiancé, disgraced during WWI and with four other French soldiers thrown into no-man's-land to their fates, for invaliding themselves to get away from the trenches.
Fascinating.Five French soldiers had enough of war and tried to give themselves a blighty by shooting themselves in the hand.
Instead, they are sentenced to death.
But, France had outlawed firing squads.
Both sides could shoot at them.One of the five is engaged to Mathilde Donnay.
She wants to know what happened to her fiancée and the other four men.
Just goes to show, you never know treasures you have lurking on your bookshelves.
And it may take more than 10 pages to let you know how good it is.Apparently a bestseller in France before it was translated.
Japrisot is a genius! A wonderful, wonderful book! At the end, everything just came together and I was so moved! How can someone have such an intense love for another individual? And the details...I felt like I was in the trenches along with the five soldiers. I MUST read this book (physically) in case I missed anything. Too bad a lot of his work has yet to be translated to English.
Lectura amable sobre una historia triste ambientada en la I Guerra Mundial, una guerra llena de trincheras y de vidas truncadas.
El anhelo y la búsqueda, envueltos de tozudez y perseverancia, nos llevan de la mano por historias tristes qué bien podrían haber sido reales.Narrativamente no me ha sorprendido.
Nos cuenta los que quiere y como quiere, muy al estilo francés, y con un toque de que la vida es como es y hay que ver el lado bueno.Me ha costado entrar en la historia pero una vez que lo he hecho, me ha atrapado completamente.Pronto opinión completa en el blog
Oh. My. Goodness.This book took my breathe away, broke my heart, mended it, and surprised me to no end. Absolutely brilliantly written.
The reader unravels the clues along with Mathilde as she receives more and more information about her fiance's mysterious death.Honestly, I did not like this book at all.
The book was written for the benefit of the character, Mathilde, so therefore she does not need to give an accurate description of France because she already knows what it is like.
I feel like this was not the usual case for widowed women in France after WWI.There were too many characters, places, different perspectives, names and it was all too much to keep track of.
I also did not think this was a good book to read to help me understand life after WWI.
{Blog} http://tempodler.blogspot.pt/2012/06/...Pela forma como foi escrito, levamos muito tempo a entrar na história de Um Longo Domingo de Noivado.
Além de tudo isto, como vamos colhendo, através da investigação incessante de Mathilde, diversas pistas, sendo que muitas delas acabam por se revelar nulas, temos que ter sempre presente todas estas informações e fazer uma leitura atenta que, consequentemente, tende a ser cansativa.
Por todos estes motivos, Um Longo Domingo de Noivado não é uma leitura fácil - e quem está à espera de um romance convencional pode encontrar-se bastante desiludido e ludibriado.
The book is simultaneously an effortless historical novel set in WWI-era France, an intricate mystery, and a sincere and deeply-felt love story.
I was so hooked on this book that when I accidentally left it my office desk drawer two nights ago, I felt positively forlorn and moped around the house all evening, such had been my anticipation for finishing it.
I would defy someone to not like this book.
I loved the secondary characters as well; Japrisot's women are phenomenal and their stories weave together around those of the soldiers so beautifully and unexpectedly.
Someone go pick up this book and tell me what you think!
I read this book during my last life-altering interval, and I sobbed through the last twenty pages . Out and out sobbed. Tears, running nose, inadvertent noises, the whole deal.It's beautiful. Plain and simple beautiful. Mathilde is such a simply strong character, the sparse dialogue allows the story to move without interruption and to exist in its own space and time, and the predominantly female cast is varied and distinct. What a brilliant man to create such women so inherently unique and real. The novel seems effortless, no small achievement.
Mathilde moves throughout the country for information about the men.
She encounters many people along the way with different information as well as meeting the loved ones of the other families that the men left behind.
This was a bestseller in France and is sort of a mystery, a look into the different ways one story can be told, and a look at life in France during and after the First World War. Because of the many French names I got confused sometimes and wish the characters had been more developed, especially Matilde and her fiancé, Manech.
In addition, she wrote letters to and visited many people that she had never met before, then proceeded to ask them very personal questions involving their relationships with people.
One woman writes to Mathilde after being clearly asked not to by her goddaughter.
Why would she write everything to Mathilde, a person she doesn't know, against the wishes of a close relative?At the same time, I thought that the plot as a whole was interesting.
Watching the movie after reading the book was very helpful to understand the plot.Overall, I would recommend this book to a mystery-loving person who can keep track of multiple characters.
