https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/259836.Dragons_of_Autumn_Twilight
Dragonlance was the first fantasy novel series I ever read so it holds a special place in my heart.
The Chronicles Trilogy was the first in a series of 10 core books.
There are probably well over a 100 books set in the Dragonlance world but these are the ones you need to read.Chroncicles Trilogy:Dragons of Autumn TwilightDragons of Winter NightDragons of Spring DawningLegends Trilogy:Time of the TwinsWar of the TwinsTest of the TwinsTransitions to next generation:Dragons of Summer FlameThe War of Souls:Dragons of a Fallen SunDragons of a Lost StarDragons of a Vanished MoonI especially recommend the Legends trilogy, they are the only books I know to mix time travel and fantasy.
But darkness awaits them on their journey, and like lightning from a cloudless sky, the horrors of war return to the magical world of Krynn.It's a wonderful feeling when you're able to get immersed in a fantasy story and after a while realise that you started reading the exact right book at the exact right time.
They were not among the best fantasy characters I've ever encountered, but I liked them, and that's all that matters.
To be honest, this rating would be way too high if I was considering the objective quality of the book.
And while dungeons and dragons is great fun for those playing it, everyone has had to suffer through players who labor under the mistaken impression that their adventures are just as interesting to everyone else as they are to the player..."So then, like, you know, this Orc came out of the weapons room but I rolled a 20 and I threw my +5 sword and it went right through his shield and practically killed him.
And so then, like, Arabella threw a level 23 fireball spell at him while Tantros cast an ice spell at the Orc's feet, and so he was, you know, frozen to the floor, like, when the fireball hit him...."
I could not excuse the literary flaws in this book.
As every typical fantasy element was gathered for the Quest, I wondered how this was different than LOTR, other than being crappy.I thought it would be interesting to read the annotated version of this book so I could see what the authors were thinking.
My eyes almost rolled straight out of my skull several times as the authors' simple thought process was revealed to me like the opening of a pack of Kraft cheese singles.The writing is simplistic to the Nth degree.
It’s also one of the three books sporting dragons that I truly like, which I consider a feat in itself.
Amid the rising tide of evil, dragons return to the world of Krynn led by the powerful Queen of Darkness, Takhisis.
The most innovative the book has to offer are two characters: Fizban, the wizard and Tasslehoff Bourrfoot, the kender.
Nobody knows how powerful he is, nobody suspects how vital a character for the forces of Light and nobody takes him seriously.
Indeed, forming the adventuring party takes most of the time and individual members need to reconcile with each other or find their way and place in the group.
I first read this book about the time it came out, when I was about 10 or 11... and recently found an identical, battered paperback copy at a thrift store. Dipping back into it twenty-odd years later, it has many shortcomings. However, it still takes me back to that time when I'd read under the covers at night with a dying flashlight, and fell asleep dreaming of wizards, warriors and strange, forgotten lands.
When I was nine years old, I wrote a short story about an elf and a mage traversing an imaginary world and banishing evil back to the depths from whence it came.
I thought fantasy fiction had a formula that alternated between a short climax and a short resolution like the regular, predictable oscillations of a wave pattern.
Like that wave pattern, it seemed to go on and on so that a 20-paged story seemed to take forever to read.
At nine years old, I thought this was an exciting, scintillating narrative.
There are many hardships I'd rather face than reading this novel again.
My daughter is getting older now and asking me for suggestions on books that are "age appropriate" - her term.
I use this anecdote and the "age appropriate" tag because as a young lad in love with reading this series came along at the right time to fill a need.
I was a 16-18 year old boy; Camus would have been lost on me - and if he wasn't, I would have been carving Morrissey lyrics onto my forearm unironically.I don't know whether I'd recommend these to my 15 year-old daughter in 5 years time, but if she is into light fantasy I'll do it without hesitation.
Loved it 🖤🐾🐺
Great start to an all-time classic fantasy series! I loved the colorful characters and fast-moving plot based on an interesting story line of reunited friends with secrets and a mysterious (and gorgeous, of course) stranger who drew them into danger and excitement.
In this character driven story, as most epic fantasy novels hold dear to, I loved being transported into this series of detail around each of their lives, and as well cheer the solid writing that Weis and Hickman produce together.
I’m not a romance enthusiast devouring books of the romantic genre, but I do look forward to the romance that usually tips of a good epic fantasy novel, it doesn’t eat the book alive, it’s just there in the mix.
Anyone who loves a good epic fantasy should enjoy this book..
When I read this D&D was all the rage, and this series gave lovers of high fantasy exactly what they were craving.
I thought it very good at the time, not nearly as good as Brooks or Donaldson and naturally not Tolkien, but still an entertaining adventure trilogy.
In this opening novel of the trilogy, friends of different ages and races are reunited after a lengthy absence.
Yet these friends are courageous and powerful, and may be all that can save the world from the pervading darkness.
Look, it's probably dated heaps, but if you're after a good old fantasy adventure with plenty of escapism, then give this a go.
4.0 stars. I did not go into this book with very high expectations thinking is was going to be a little cheesy. Wrong again. I really enjoyed this and thought it was a ton of fun. Great world-building, excellent characters and a fast-paced, non-stop plot. Call it fantasy comfort food, but call it very good.
Why us? Tanis thought bitterly. Was there ever a more unlikely group of heroes- bickering, grumbling, arguing- half of us not trusting the other half. “We were chosen.” This book truly does read like playing an RPG, the entire plot of the book was:“We have to go here for answers.”*encounters enemies*“Now we have to deliver this item here.”*encounters enemies*“Now we have to go here.”*boss fight*It took me a while to get into this, and I think the reason for that is because we are introduced to
I expect this with the mages and the Kender but for the humans and dwarves it felt like lazy writing.-	The love triangle between Tanis and the human woman and the elf woman kind of reminded me of Aragorn from LOTR.-	There was a traitor *gasp* oh but it’s a new character so nobody cares if he dies.Anyways, I own this trilogy so I will be finishing these books at some point!
But the constant jumping from one character to another is annoying - almost half into the book I still feel like I don't really know any of them.
The scene where (view spoiler)[Goldmoon saves her BAE (who, in a normal world would be dead already because his body is literally in scraps) with a magic staff and just winks and says: "Ok, he is alive, lets go to fight dragon!" is just not OK with me, I already seen some of The Walking Dead.
(hide spoiler)] There is no logic in it, no sense of wonder, nothing fully magical or mysterious.
Definitely enjoyable! I liked the characters and have some major questions about what had happened to them before the beginning of this book. I thought at times, it could be convenient and it seemed like one small problem after another over and over, but I did enjoy the story and the world. I'll definitely continue on and see what is going to happen next.
I don't know about you guys but when shit happens and the author keeps telling you, your heroes is scared and hands are shaking and they're ready to piss their pants (okay probably overboard there) but yeah, you start looking at them like okayyyyyyyyyyyyyy, can i get another hero please?Sturm: Another despicable human being who couldn't think for himself.
Absolutely did not like this character simply because he was close minded little shit!!
Apparently dwarves have the same personality across books.Goldmoon, Laurana and Tika: These were basically the 3 main female characters in the novel, with Laurana and Tika joining the group much later in the adventure.
Goldmoon we already know, Tika is presented as a strong opinionated female character so i guess there's hope for her.
It has been nearly 25 years since I read this book and I have to say I enjoyed it just as much this time as I did the first time.
I was a little hesitant to reread because I have gone back to some books I read as a teen and found that I didn't enjoy the nearly as much as I did the first time around.
I pick up an old, "classic" High Fantasy novel because I think it "will be fun" and a throwback to being in middle-school, and then about 100 pages in I can't do it any more.
The prose is wooden, the characters cringe-worthy cliches .
and I still have 800 pages to go.
Dear god, when there are so many good books out there, how can I possibly slavishly force my through one of these?
These books also remind me that I shouldn't be such a snob by only having a "weird-fiction" shelf, because this clearly belongs on a "Fantasy" shelf.
The first half of the book leaves a lot to be desired, and Weis & Hickman try to cram way too many characters into the story (leaving many of them pretty under-developed and one-dimensional). That said, it really picks up near the end, and left me wanting to jump into the next book in the series. The reason I got into the book in the first place was because I was in the mood for dragons, and Dragons of Autumn Twilight does not disappoint.
Five years has passed.
Five long years since they have seen each other.
The story behind the Cataclysm.
The story behind why the Gods abandoned the land, leaving men in utter confusion and cloaked in darkness.
And there they met Goldmoon (the bearer of the blue staff) and Riverwind (the tribe-outcast slash lover slash bodyguard of Goldmoon).I know, am not really good at making reviews.
But it was really a fantastic read, I tell you.
It reminded me of The Name of the Wind (though TNotW is grittier), but the reading does have a good flow, and really a certified classic !!
Il lato oscuro degli anni '80 Terrificante coacervo di cliché sparati all'impazzata da tutte le dire
3.5 stars very enjoyable and classic
Solid three star rating for this one, but I'm giving it an extra star just because this book lured so many young readers into the fantasy genre.
When I found this in 1986, it may as well have been the Bible.
This a book I have to judge by two standards.Just like any (new) fantasy book:It is a bit predictable, the characters are easy to understand, and very black and white.
I felt to safe in the story, and as it is a clear quest - even if you missed a minute or two of the audio book, you still had no problem to follow the story.
No big love triangles, no detailed sex scenes or gore, an interesting quest to follow, a whole new level of fantasy!
-En su propuesta, que engloba muchas cosas, un hito.-Género. Narrativa Fantástica.Lo que nos cuenta. Un grupo de aventureros de diferentes razas y orígenes une sus fuerzas contra el mal… sí, bueno, podría ser más preciso en cuanto a las razones, los motivos, pero en realidad para qué… Primer libro de la saga Dragonlance y primer libro de la trilogía Crónicas de la Dragonlance.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
This is fantasy at some of its best. Not only is this the first book in a wonderful saga, some of its characters are enduring and captivating, still memorable so many years later. Even though it wasn't written to be YA fiction, it's an easy fit for young readers. Dragons of Autumn Twilight is what all YA fiction should strive to be like. Morally uplifting and evocative.
3.5-3.75 stars? possibly. idk. rating may change later. RTC after work, maybe.you all know how i am with reviews lmao
Persuaded to read this trilogy by a good friend of mine, I expected some mind blowing, trail blazing plot devices.
Taking into account that this is the first book in the series, I realize there must be heavy focus on backstory and character development before action can take place; however, it wasn’t until the last ten chapters or so before I became truly invested in the story.
Autumn in the title relates to the time of year in which the story takes place.
