https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92290.The_Locusts_Have_No_King

Book Circle Reads 75Rating: 4* of fiveThe Publisher Says: No one has satirized New York society quite like Dawn Powell, and in this classic novel she turns her sharp eye and stinging wit on the literary world, and "identifies every sort of publishing type with the patience of a pathologist removing organs for inspection." Frederick Olliver, an obscure historian and writer, is having an affair with the restively married, beautiful, and hugely successful playwright, Lyle Gaynor.
Dawn Powell writes of New York City at its very peak, post-WWII, mid-20th century.
Skyscrapers, badass automobiles, Radio City Music Hall, cafeterias.
I swear that when you read this book, you'll hear the loud honking of the yellow taxicabs, you'll see the bright flashing neon lights of Broadway, you'll feel the surge of humanity walking with you on an overflowing sidewalk.Isn't that what a well-written book accomplishes?
One day, I finally sat down and read this book, and I understood why.New York, New York.
The innocence has faded away, but the Metropolis Myth lives on.Book Season = Spring (consume the earth)
People either like this kind of satire or they don't; I do, though this is not my favorite Dawn Powell novel.
This means that people like me who participated in a group read may have to number each chapter with a pencil, and browsing the blurb on the back is to be avoided for those who don't want a spoiler ruining the goings-on.
The good news: those who take a shine to the novels of Dawn Powell can find most of them gathered into two Library of America volumes.
I suspect that this author is an acquired taste. I struggled to finish this primarily because I just couldn't identify with one single character. Every single one appeared (to this reader at least) to be selfish and self serving. Already an adequate synopsis on offer so no point in rehashing........not my cup of tea.
Dawn Powell is one of those authors I have found myself collecting over the years, but hadn't read yet, and wasn't sure when to start...
Therein lies my fascination in her writing.The story takes place in New York City, just like Dorothy Parker's stories.
Powell writes about New York society with the same sort of disdain as Parker did - this sort of feeling that while they're making fun of the people in this society, they are just as much a part of it and dislike themselves for being there as well.
This just might not have been the right place to start in her writing.
I like Dawn Powell's abilities as a writer, but I didn't care too much for the subject matter in this satirical send-up of post-war New York and the literary scene.
Maybe Powell rates more stars for how accurately she captured this life--that would just be a guess on my part, as I've never lived it--but another comparison that popped into my mind a few times was the Steve Martin film, L.A. Story, with its exposure of the phoniness of the people and their concerns about anything other than themselves.Anyway, The Locusts Have No King is nominally the story of Lyle Gaynor (a woman) and Frederick Olliver, and their on-, off-, on-again romance, but I think that's simply the structure Powell uses to eviscerate the particular literary scene, circa 1946.
"Jay McInerney meets Carrie Bradshaw for the Mad Men era" would surely be the publicist's pitch if Dawn Powell's weighty novel about the Greenwich Village literary whirl of the 40s were first published today.
Powell's understanding of human behavior is so thorough, so flawless, and so beautifully surgical it's unmatched in almost anything I've ever read.
But I still only gave this 3 stars because that's all she wrote (literally); there's no character or plot worth latching on to here to sustain you through the endless parade of deep, dark insights into the mind(lessness) of the modern man.
Never has there been a better time for me to hide in the safe embrace of the The American Century and bask in the warm glow of striving sophistication mid 20th century New York imbues.
Yet in reading authors like Dawn Powell, I need not castigate myself for completely fleeing our ugly realities.
In 1948, Dawn Powell was already doing Mad Men. She was already writing Sex and the City.The plot hinges on the triangle formed by central characters, Frederick Olliver and Lyle Gaynor and Lyle's disabled (and it is implied, impotent) husband, Allan.
There are parallels in Powell's book with many other novels as well."The Locusts have no King" is set in New York City between the period of the end of WW II and the first test nuclear explosion on Bikini Atoll in 1947.
("Pooh on you"!, she says, throughout the book) At the same time, Frederick's financial fortune turns when his publisher prevails upon him to edit a periodical appropriately named "Haw" which becomes a commercial success.The main plot of the story involves Frederick's attempt to understand and put his love life and his writing life back together.
The theme of fallen ideals in love and thinking is carried through in the settings of the story.
While I'm reading this book, my vision seems to lose all color and I see everything in black and white.
Its a flashback to mid-century New York with its literary and publishing scene, something that was popular in older films, either Gary Grant screwball comedies or some of the lesser known B grade romances.
The book is very episodic, it jumps around quite a bit.
An interesting read, my family's mostly west coast or small town folk, so I've only experienced this New York through film.
The fact that Dawn Powell is not universally celebrated as one of the Greats is proof that we’re not only doomed the boring, humorless catastrophe that is living in a world with little more Dawn Powells but that we might probably deserve to live there
This is a roman a clef for which the clef is missing.I think people who complain that Dawn Powell is 'dated' aren't really saying that the picture of the Stork Club era, or the "Had Enough?" era- New York immediately after WW II- isn't interesting, but that many parts of this book would need a historian's annotations.
I was a little surprised to learn, in the little bio at the back of the book, that Dawn Powell was born in 1897 (although this is off by a year, according to other sources), and thus wrote it as she was turning fifty.
There is almost no part of post-WWII New York society that doesn't get skewered or at least nicked by her sardonic wit and her exploration of the mostly self-absorbed maneuverings of the men and women who mix business and the arts and drinking (lots and lots of drinking).But holding me back is the fact that this novel revolves around a relationship whose difficulties never made sense to me.
In the meantime, though, Powell manages to satirize modern office life, publishing for the masses, the ignorance of those with inherited wealth, the caustic relationships of single women and a host of other foibles.It's as though a really interesting party is being held in a room with very ugly furniture.
There is the critic who pretends to know everything and everybody (that hasn't changed...), the playwright who hasn't written a solitary scene that his wife did, but gets all the credit, the catty commercial artists simultaneously superior and inferior to any fine artists out there, and the advertising jingle writer who lives off the phrase "Let Me Give You a Light".
That particular phrase must be understood ironically as anybody who shines a light in this novel is quickly swarmed.The literary scene in the post WWII era must have ripe for satire, and if I would have read this book during that time I am sure I would have loved it.
Powell's portrayal of her characters shows a remarkable skill in observing and interpreting the many delusions, mind games and inner conflicts common in people who are unfulfilled in life.
There is something twisted and menacing about all her characters, yet they all come across as familiar and sympathetic, often even noble, at the same time.
One of Powell's philosophical "hooks" is this idea of suffering for something noble, such as love.
And for Powell, I think one major point is despite our desires and efforts, life is never as rewarding as we hope it to be.

I finally figured out what was bugging me about this book.
While there were some really good patches of writing at times, other places, not so much.
On page 130, consecutive sentences read like this ---- and this pattern often went on for several pages at a time-- “Dodo liked to .
Frederick was glad .
Dodo was vaguely irritated .
She teased him by demanding .
Frederick was inclined .
.Other times he found himself .
. He needed consolation .
Frederick wished .
” Don’t tell me -- Show me, please!
Did not finish, but I’m done.
Powell's later novels only increase in complexity, skill in handling multiple characters and subplots, and, her forte, long-ish descriptive paragraphs. This book is ridiculous and hilariously funny, and the punch that Powell manages at the end, putting this all-too human comedy in a wider sociopolitical post-World War II context with the detonation of the atom bombs on the Bikini atoll is amazing and moving. What a tremendous talent Dawn Powell possessed.
Frederick Olliver and Lyle Gaynor are the love story interests in this New York City satire of literary society. Ms. Powell seems to find her characters most interesting when they are unhappy, and she seems to enjoy skewering the different types of society hanger-ons that are part of that society. This was biting satire mixed with some pathos.
Boy this was good. A lot better than 1942's A Time to Be Born. My dearly beloved certainly heard me chuckling several times while reading this book. Powell totally skewers social climbers, artistic snobs, alcoholics, poseurs, adulterers, ne'er-do-wells, and more. And she adds to all of this a plot that is actually engaging, even if somewhat unbelievable. Each chapter is a set-scene, and some (most?) were clearly introduced merely to poke fun at something or another, and yet she still manages to hide some interesting plot twists in there.Bonus points if you know the source of the title without looking.
I found a nicely bound copy of Dawn Powell’s novels on one of my own bookshelves. It had never been opened or read by anyone in my family. I had never heard of her. The setting is New York City in the late 40s? It was published in 1948. The plot revolves around two people in love but one is married. Powell paints a satirical portrait of the couple, their friends, and life. I am happy I discovered her
I'd rate this 3.5 . Powell's writing is engaging, but I just found the romantic entanglement and the character of Dodo too infuriating to enjoy what is, at the end of the day, a poignant observation on the New York literary scene and gender roles.I relate much easier to Dorothy Parker's self deprecating and deflective sense of humor, but it's possible that that too would have grown to grate on my nerves if she ever wrote a novel.
Somewhere around its halfway point Locusts began to remind me of descriptions of “Seinfeld”: a story about nothing. (I watched parts of two or three episodes over the years and am compelled to agree.)The book engaged me at first, but I found myself becoming uninterested in what happens next, a fatal flaw.
I didn't love this the way I loved other Dawn Powell novels, that said her writing and human insight is still spectacular.
Never got into it.
In terms of wit, The Locusts Have No King packs a higher quantity of jabs but fewer KOs than A Time to be Born, but this doesn't stop Dawn Powell from achieving utter perfection.
I may not have laughed the most at this one, but I certainly underlined and notated this one the most.To be fair, The Locusts Have No King took a longer period of time for me to adjust to it, in part because the story seems a bit more niche and microscopic (somehow) than her previous offerings, or in some ways can be a tad bit more abstract, sort of like the tone shift Henry James employs in The Ambassadors from his previous offerings.
That combination seemed like a winner to me.This book is the story of Frederick Olliver, a writer who, at the beginning of the book is somewhat of a recluse, who has had a few things published (but not things most people would have actually read), and whose biggest “adventure” in life is a somewhat limited but intense affair with Lyle Gaynor, the wife and writing partner of one of Broadway’s most well-known playwrights.
I don’t want to reveal the ending, but I will say it was not as strong as it could have been.I found this book an enjoyable read, and though some of the characters were stereotypical, I’m not sure they would have been as much at the time the book was published.
When a strange girl called Dodo attaches her social-climbing self on to Frederick just as he is heading to a society party that Lyle has insisted he attend, this delicate cocktail is upset, and the lives of Frederick, Lyle and everyone around them is changed.This is a character-driven story, as the plot is easily summarized.
Powell switches her point-of-view between the two main characters easily, and some of the frisson of this novel is how Lyle or Frederick so easily misunderstand the actions of the other (a staple of many comedies).
Why go to the trouble of publishing this fine novel in a handsome trade paper edition, then not bother to edit it for this kind of glaring error?Steerforth has apparently reprinted the bulk of Dawn Powell's oeuvre (although some of her books have also been published in superb Library of America editions, a treatment they richly deserve), so I expect if I want to read Dance Night, I'll suffer similar incompetence.That said, this is an excellent book, evocative of its place and time, and written, as cited above, in excellent prose.
