https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/915845.The_Dance_of_Siva
But it was out of print at that time, and I could source a copy only now – with Rupa Publishers reprinting it.Coomaraswamy’s metaphor of the cosmic dance of Shiva is well known to many, even to those who don’t know him: I first came across it during the late seventies, in Fritjof Capra’s seminal book on New Age science, The Tao of Physics: An Exploration of the Parallels between Modern Physics and Eastern Mysticism.
In essays like "Individuality, Autonomy, and Function" and "What has India contributed to civilization?" Ananda praises the Hindu caste system as being just, and decries western democracy because of its belief in Equality which creates a great deal of harm as opposed to good (the road to hell is paved with good intentions).
However, Ananda keeps insisting that the Hindu Jivanmukta ideal and Nietzsche's Ubermensch ideal are not only similar but actually precisely the same.
All in all, I highly recommend this book to anyone who is fond of Hinduism and likes to read essays.
Questo libro contiene dei brevi articoli scritti dall'autore nei primi anni del 1900 che parlano soprattutto dell'arte indiana: la scultura, la pittura, la danza, la musica e il teatro.
Ci sono alcuni spunti molto interessanti e tutto sommato è un libro interessante, però per me è stata una lettura pesante sia per il linguaggio, sia perché di alcuni argomenti avevo già letto altrove in modo più scorrevole a approfondito.
La traduzione dell'Adelphi era quella che più si allontanava dall'originale di Nietzsche perché utilizzava un linguaggio erudito e ricercato, mentre il tedesco di Nietzsche è semplice e scorrevole.
I read this book when I was in high school in India and it opened up many aspects of Indian art and culture that made me then and now informed about the deeper underlying meanings. Art historians debate Coomaraswamy today and certainly there has been much revision in dating. But there is no one who has opened so many doors on the metaphysics of Indian Art. Reading Coomaraswamy is a life-task.
nice book to know about Indian religion . art . music . and dance
Like with any Ananda Coomaraswamy book, you are in for a profound scholarly work with "The Dance of Shiva." He gives the rest of us an amazing insight into what life was like in India under British rule and how this dramatically effected Indian culture.
His understanding of Indian culture is like no other.
If you are interested in knowing more about the spiritual and psychological significance of Indian marriage, caste system, or art, then you are in for a treat.
A must-read for anyone interested in the basics of Ancient Hindu/Indian aesthetics. In many ways, a co-text to Will Durant's Preface to The Story of Philosophy. Personally, thios book validated a lot of my notions of the all-encompassing nature of the Indian mind, which sees thought and action as, more or less, two heads on one body. The East and West are similar in many ways, but a primary difference is the notion of Difference itself. This is an oversimplification.The book uses a very accessible flow of language. Just one other of its many marks of true scholarship.
This book comprises a very interesting and diverse collection of essays by the author on a range of topics all falling under the broad heading of "Indian art and culture". The several essays on Indian art are full of important Perennialist ideas on the very nature of art, while important social ideas are set forth throughout the book, but most directly and valuably in "What Has India Contributed to Human Welfare?", "Status of Indian Women", "Young India", and the brief but powerful "Individuality, Autonomy and Function".
Ananda Kentish Coomaraswamy has a mind like a diamond.Look no further than this book for a lucid and poetic introduction to South Asian/Indian art, music and a smattering of philosophy. We recognise here, just as in the painting and sculpture, what is eternal in all art,and universal-impassioned vision based on understanding, correlated with cloudless thought and devoid of sentimentality.
Highly thought-provoking and contemplative at the same time. Not an easy read...richly layered and complex, requires multiple readings and serious reflection. Will surely be visiting this little but heavy book several times.
This books gave me some great insights, but the academic part went over my head. Probably I must read it again to understand the entire meaning of the book. I felt that the writer lost his narrative in several essays where he goes into description of art or theorising his ideas.
Saggi sul “sahaja” e sulla musica indiana fortemente consigliati!
