https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18465566-this-one-summer
I rarely write GR reviews, but I almost didn't pick this up because of some of the reviews I've seen, so I wanted to add my five stars.
This is a quiet book.
Watching Rose struggle with the idea of wanting to be a "cool girl," and of what it means to be seen as a "bad girl" or "slut" isn't comfortable, but if feels wholly real.
(And the idea that this book in any way condones slut shaming is utterly absurd.)
A very low-key, beautiful story with amazing artwork. Also very Canadian.
There is almost nothing that I would have found enjoyable about this story, if it weren't for the beautiful graphics that brought it to life.Which is weird, because drawings are something I find quite agreeable to look at and, in graphic novels, it’s usually the only thing that I really demand, along with a passable to good plot.But there was no plot in this.Rose and her parents, as every summer since a young age, are spending the season at Awago, where there are beaches, fresh air and where she made a good friend, Windy.
I always feel a little awful about it, and this is probably the kind of thing the French have a word for--the sorrow of beauty’s brevity.Anyway it’s hard to imagine a [French-word-for-the-sorrow-of-beauty’s-brevity] more hollowing than the end of summer.
It’s all very maiden, mother, crone in a sly, satisfying way that will make you feel clever for having thought of that.The plot, in keeping with a long summer daze, is not especially complicated; for all its apparent simplicity, however, this is a story with kind of a lot of heavy stuff going on.
I really liked the idea of a summer of firsts and lessons, but when it was all said and done, I don’t really think the main character learned anything.
The book also never felt like it actually had a climax at all.
It largely felt like a summer of revelations that was witnessed by the main character, but she doesn’t seem to have a strong reaction to most things either way.
As a result, it was very hard for me to place my feeling about her and I’m left wondering what the whole point was of the book.
This story follows Rose's yearly summer trip with her mom and dad to a lake house in Awago Beach.
But this summer is different.
This One Summer felt like a great summer read.
Plus, the friendship and banter between the two main characters added some needed humor to the story.(Windy’s dance moves are hilariously great)A great read to reminisce about those summery days with spectacular illustrations in it.
I'm excited to read more from the authors!3.5 stars*Note: I'm an Amazon Affiliate.
If you're interested in buying This One Summer, just click on the image below to go through my link.
Artwork: 5 starsPlot: 2 starsThe artwork was STUNNING in this book but that's where my love ends. I felt this could have told a bigger story and made a bigger impact but it felt very open ended honestly. I did resonate with the mother so very much ( you'll know once you read the book)But I wanted more plot, more depth.The artwork though? A++++
This was a tiny bit of a disappointment :(The thing about graphic novels is that you have TWO giant elements: the writing AND the art.The art in this book was phenomenal.
There was a giant combination of different types of panels - squares, rectangles, splash pages..
And it was all purple!
I loved that it was all purple.
Very moody and lovely.The writing/story, however..
There were two interesting things going on, but there was no sense of growth in either story, and no type of conclusion.
Me the whole time:Full review to come!

I'm going to gush.I'm going to gush, going to tell you that, as far as graphic novels go, this is best in show.I didn't only turn the pages of this illustrated story with great enthusiasm, I experienced moments of great reflection here (held my breath a moment or two, too).This book knocked me out.The writer/illustrator team of This One Summer, Jillian and Mariko Tamaki, are Canadian cousins who have clearly listened to how preteens speak and how preteens act and/or they have remembered their own feelings in adolescence so very, very well.
They're noticing struggles within their parents' marriages for the first time as well and are more reluctant to turn to them for guidance.So much of the material here made me think about my own adolescence and how hasty I was to throw other girls my age under the bus.
6/23/17 Reread update, after reading it with my YA Comics/Graphic Novels class this summer.
This summer is different, though, in that 1) Rose's mother is depressed and fighting with her husband; she wants more children, but had a miscarriage; 2) Rose has begun to register an interest in boys, particularly a guy named Dunc (Windy calls him Dud) who seems to be the summer crush for the little resort area, and 3) they watch a lot of horror movies, which, as you know, feature (usually) girls being pursued and sometimes slashed.
I concur, the art is superb.What I don't understand is how people thought nothing happened in the book...
But a lot of things that may seem insignificant to adults or to anyone other than the few children, teenagers, adults involved in the story happened.
Almost everything about the story is understated, which, I suspect, is why people thought nothing happened in the novel.
There are very few moments of extreme dramatics, and most of the time is spent not saying things, trying to get through things, not understanding things, which is pretty close to my coming-of-age experience, as I think must be to many people's.
The story is bittersweet, powerful, charming, and sad.....a coming of age young adult gorgeous graphic......dealing with real issues.
This year, Rose's parents are fighting a lot....creating tension for everyone in the family.
Also with Rose being 12, and Windy being 10....their age difference is showing up more this summer than in past years.
The age range is 12 to 18.....There's an awful lot of sex and swearing....so, if I were a parent of a 12-year-old, I would hesitate having my daughter read this at age 12.
This is another one of those "SUCH A BEAUTIFUL BOOK TO TOUCH"!!!!
Mariko Tamaki writes a convincing portrayal of some teens’ summer holiday experience except is it worth writing when it’s this banal?
She has nothing to say about the girls, nothing to say in general, nothing happens and the thing at the end was contrived literary pap at best.
It’s a… thing that… happens… Also, note to Mariko Tamaki: excessive use of “like” in dialogue does not make for realistic teenspeak - it’s exactly the kind of irritating detail a crap writer who doesn’t know how to write young people’s dialogue would do.
Definitely not one to bother with - Mariko Tamaki writes another turkey (jerky)!
I wish there was a clearer evolution of charcter development but this is the first graphic novel ever where i've been able to relate to a character and I adored the art and plot!
I think with this one, readers will either love it or hate it.
I also think that part of me enjoyed this graphic novel hugely due to it being related to characters that go to a beach annually each summer.
Those kind of stories have always appealed to me, even if that was never the case for me.
This will definitely appeal to some and others will not enjoy it.
I loved the artwork, the way this story was told, and I will possibly look for more written by this duo in the future.
I can see why this is not that popular but I really enjoyed it. The art style is absolutely beautiful and I love the subtle messages this book tries to send.
Now, it's very clear that the book isn't condoning Rose's slut shaming, but that doesn't make it any easier to read.
(view spoiler)[Granted, trying to hide from her daughter that she'd had a miscarriage is not going to help matters any.
(hide spoiler)] She isn't even a terribly good friend to Windy, her lakeside friend since they were little.
It's just Rose being hateful towards a girl she doesn't even know, Rose being terrible towards her mother, and Rose being a subpar friend.
Yes, it's a very pretty book, but it's only worth looking at, not reading.
Great artwork, lovely mood...but I think I just wanted more from this story.
This One Summer es el verano hecho novela gráfica. El sentimiento de nostalgia y de tranquilidad que transmite en todas y cada una de sus páginas es mágico. Las ilustraciones son una pasada, y es una historia que disfrutas y devoras sin darte cuenta. Es una novela preciosa, de esas que te hacen sentir calentito por dentro. En resumen: una maravilla.
This is my first graphic novel!
This book is marketed for 12-18 yr old.We meet Rose and Windy, both pre teens, who always reconnect at the cottage over summer.
This is also the summer that Rose has started checking out boys.
A situation is occurring with a local boy (probably 18) that she is crushing on.
A lot of the story is learned by the facial expressions which for someone who is more accustomed to words was an adjustment.I definitely enjoyed my first foray into the graphic novel, but I think I will stick with the written word!
"maybe I will have massive boobs.
Boobs would be cool." that's the nugget of truth we are left with in this Focus Feature-like indie movie, appealing to 1 percent of the teenagers who come in the libraries, obscurely written by (what came across to me as) feminists about their own self-important childhoods being sold off as psudo-fiction.Here's what I learned: Innocence is lost because people older than you are fuck-ups.see my progress updates for more complaining.
Awful graphic novel.
Read "Blankets" or "Anya's Ghost" or "Smile" for novels with substance that actually appeal to teens.1.5/5MH
I was a fan of these authors' previous collaboration, Skim, but I had resisted this one because I've generally found First Second's YA comics kind of unsatisfying.
I should have known this one would be head and shoulders above the rest.
In addition to having beautiful, fabulous artwork, This One Summer reminded me of the 1970s YA novels I'd check out from the library as a kid: slightly risque, with a main character on the cusp of puberty and a best friend who's still on the childish side, encountering adult situations, arguing with each other, and growing as a result, but not too much.
This One Summer was the third book I picked up for my (unofficial) summer reads challenge. I spontaneously bought it a few months ago while paying a visit to Foyles, Charing Cross Road. I love the large graphic novel section in the shop and I bought This One Summer along with  Through the Woods  – and I'm happy to say that I really enjoyed both!I was expecting a cute and fluffy, picture perfect story about two girls and their summer friendship together in a beautiful beach cottage, enjoying the
– and I'm happy to say that I really enjoyed both!I was expecting a cute and fluffy, picture perfect story about two girls and their summer friendship together in a beautiful beach cottage, enjoying the sun, sea and sand, but This One Summer was much grittier and intense.This One Summer is about the sort of friendship that's not day-to-day – Rose and her younger friend Windy only see each other every summer.
So far as I can tell, it's being promoted as a YA story, but main character Rose is too young for YA, as she seems to be around 12, and her friend Windy is a year and a half younger, so she's about 10.
Rose tells us they tried to have another baby the year before, but it didn't work, and Rose is fretting that maybe she's not enough for them.
And yet, I personally found it satisfying, even as it made me cry.So I definitely recommend this book if you're in the mood for something different and evocative with lovely pictures and few but deeply expressive words.
3.5Bastante rápida de leer.
Trescientas veinte páginas y un arte bastante bonito.
La lección de que la interpretación de las cosas varía según el espectador.
Un verano real, sin locas fantasías y amores fugaces.
Estoy satisfecho.Recomendable."—It feels good.
Floating.
It feels like flying.""—We couldn't figure out what to bring you so we brought cupcakes and wine.
And Balloons.""—I'm a zombie.
I have these crazy toughts.
Like, I wish.
I wish I was a little kid.
It's terrible to say, but I wish I could just...
disappear.""—The girls in this movie are screamers.—Yeah.
—She's a bitch.—Yeah, she's a bit of a bitch sometimes."
Cousins Mariko Tamaki and Jillian Tamaki brilliantly capture the liminal time between being a teenager and being a child in their new graphic novel, THIS ONE SUMMER.
Rose and Windy are friends who hang out every summer when their families visit Awago Beach.
It's painfully real, that difficultly of growing into being a teenage girl while being taught to hate those other girls who aren't like you.There's a beautiful, and beautifully complicated thread of family running through THIS ONE SUMMER.
I didn't love this, but I didn't dislike it. I liked it. I enjoyed what I think they were going for, feel wise. I just felt like something was missing, or wasn't QUITE right.I loved the art. I enjoyed the storytelling format. I liked the type of story they were telling, and the perspective they chose to tell it from, however, it still felt like it was lacking a sort of... oomph. I don't know how else to describe it. Again, I would recommend it for someone who enjoys this genre. It just didn't quite live up to the hype!
SpoilersI would have liked this more if the main character (Rose) hadn't been an absolute cow who did nothing but slut-shame girls she didn't even know.
Ugh, I don't know why Windy was friends with her, she was so fun and witty compared to sour faced Rose.I was expecting that by the end Rose would learn some lessons but she didn't.
Even when one of the girls Rose bitched about and slut shamed nearly died, Rose never looked back at her behaviour as wrong.
Ugh, I hated her so much, despite knowing on some level she'd been wrong to judge other girls, she still learned nothing.
