https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/276891.Memoirs_of_a_Beatnik
What I wanted was to know what it was like for a woman to be part of such an amazing scene and time, what I got was a lot of unsavory descriptions of casual sex with multiple partners. I had no idea I'd become such a prude.
The account is hardly cohesive, and could be more eloquent in its delivery, but it feels real, and it covers a truly fascinating time period--the start of the American counterculture movement, a decade before the 60s (di Prima guesses that there are maybe another 400 or so bohemian types in the entire United States during this period, and I believe her).
I'm currently reading di Prima's more "proper" memoir, Recollections of My Life as a Woman, written several decades later, and compared to this it feels like an old lady's whine-fest.
There's an unpleasant whiff of internalized misogyny in di Prima's digressions about birth control, sex, and unconventional domestic arrangements.
Her work as a poet and writer are left totally vague during the years she spent in Manhattan.
A female poet's perspective on the proto-beatnik scene of 1950's New York is a rarity; I wish a) the writing was better, b) the book had some structure other than a loose chronology, and c) she hadn't gone along with her publisher's demand for tons of ludicrous sex scenes.
The book peters out in San Francisco, 1968 -- another huge missed opportunity for insight.
I am far from being a prude, but the content of this book was neither worth my time nor money and I was majorly disappointed that it could even be called a memoir - of a beatnik no less.
The feminist in me thought how interesting it would be to read about beatniks from a woman's perspective.
Let's see: chapter 1, sex with Ivan.
Chapter 2, recollection of the first time she had sex with Ivan.
How do you think a memoir focused on a woman having nothing but sex for 14 chapters end?Why, she gets knocked up of course.Give me a break.
She was someone outside of Kerouac and Ginsberg's circle, so she wasn't even aware the was a thing called Beat until she read Howl.
But most of the sex was written just to satisfy her publishers so she could get paid.
And I think the Author's note and the Afterword says a lot to why she wrote this book the way she did.Now I went into this book knowing what to expect because my teacher warned us before reading it for my Beat class.
But the focus on sex was only to satisfy the publisher since a lot of it was made up.
There are intriguing paragraphs about foraging for wood to burn in dumpy West-side apartments, subsisting on vats of oatmeal, stale bread and endless cups of sweet, milky coffee, sleeping four on a pull-out couch in rat infested digs where rodents are the size of housecats, reading books - any books, all books (Homeric Greek primers, books about revolutions, multi-volume histories of the Republic, Beat poetry though it was not yet known as such), clanking away on typewriters, scribbling in dog-eared notebooks, taking odd jobs (art model, porn model, marriage-buster for hire, secretary, shopkeeper), getting high on hashish and cheap wine, hobnobbing with New York’s underworld , making excursions into the "country" (a bucolic interlude on the Hudson playing earth-mama to three men, a surreal outing with a sexually dysfunctional family in Darien who read like a twisted version of the Addams Family).However to get to all this good stuff you have to wade through other paragraphs (many others) of what amounts to cheap and even boring porn.
In between all the squelchy noises and the moaning (which really is a large portion of the book, even finally throwing in an orgy with Jack Kerouac and Allen Ginsberg and about 3 other people to seal the deal), is a really piercing look at the bums, runaways and, yes, 'bohemians' getting high, getting laid and trying to get by in New York on the Lower East Side right before this whole Beat thing broke open wide.
Di Prima is a really still- fresh voice, one I think was criminally underrated while everyone was busy worshiping every little "Pome" Kerouac ever dribbled out.
I turned to the forward of the book in which the author recalls being asked by a student after she gave a poetry reading in the late 60s 'whatever happened to all the beatniks?' She replied something along the lines of, well sweety some of us sold out and became hippies.
Wasn't the hippy movement, cohesive as you could claim it to be, about not selling out being anti establishment etc as well?
And then towards the end she talks about writing a book and getting the manuscript back from the publisher with 'good, add more sex' written in red pen.
Before grunge, before punks, before goths and emos and hippies and hipsters, there were beatniks. In a post-war era where women were expected to look, act and think a certain way, the author of this book was a woman living as a beatnik, wearing unconventional styles, listening to poetry, learning about the world around her and doing things that at the time were unheard of. Memoirs of a Beatnik is the best and most honest view of a beatnik that you're going to get.
this book is very bohemian and smutty, and i am loving it very much. If you're into beat literature, erotic literature, feminist literature, then read this. It's amazing.
Disappointing!I really expected her to show us what is was like to be part of such an inspirational movement, time, city... It's a shame she only writes a few words about it in the last third of the book.
і справді: тут усі трахаються.
узагалі-то про цю книжку пишуть, що це поєднання порнухи з історією нью-йоркської богеми п'ятдесятих років, але секс залишає дуже мало місця на щось іще.
і навіть коли заходить про богемне життя, зводиться воно насамперед до того, як трахаються представники богеми.
це звідси походить чудесне про груповуху з гінзбергом і керуаком: It was a strange, nondescript kind of orgy.
бо що ще робити, коли грошей дуже треба, видавець просить у тебе "більше сексу", а ти занадто літераторка, щоби копіпейстити фрагменти з попередніх розділів.
There was something unsettling to me about this book, and I finally honed in on what it was when I got to the very end, in author's afterward.
It's certainly entertaining, though not as satisfying as, say, Patti Smith's Just Kids, which it reminded me of in some respects (it's the story of being a poor artist in Manhattan).This book landed in front of me just as I was eagerly seeking out women Beatnik work...loaned by a friend to another friend who declared she couldn't read it.
The key, I think, is in what the author says about writing these scenes in the afterward.
If you want to read a novel that is pretty much purely pornographic, then you will love this book.
It is incredibly well-written and di Prima has a serious knack for descriptive imagery.
I went into this novel thinking I would be reading about the overall life experiences of a female beatnik, not just the sexual life experiences.
It is no doubt di Prima is an excellent writer, this was just not her finest work.
If you want to read a novel written about the Beat generation through a woman's eyes, skip this one and look at her other bodies of work.
For some reason – classic hipster – I thought it would be reminiscent of Jack Kerouac or Allen Ginsburg.It was not.It was it’s own completely unique, beautiful voice, it was a thunderous epiphany of a female and passion, it was cacophonous melancholy and life, it was Diane di Prima.And she lived.
She let go of her body and was a drifting spirit, a child of wants and needs and desires.This book made me question so may things about the way i live my life, the way I formulate what and how i do.Check out my list of things to do after reading at literarypixie.com!
"Nächte in New York" ist ein Buch, dass ich bei einem Bücherflohmarkt vor etlichen Jahren erstanden habe.
Doch im Kern geht es dennoch darum, wie eine junge Frau der sogenannten Beat-Generation in New York endgültig erwachsen wird.
Sie befindet sich auf einer ständigen Reise, eine andauernde Entdeckung - nicht nur ihrer selbst.
Diane Di Prima hat meiner Meinung nach einen Roman geschaffen, der Poesie, Porno und Politik/Gesellschaft ziemlich geschickt miteinander vereint.Mir hat ein Satz dabei ganz besonders gut gefallen:" - irgend etwas in meinen Zellen wisperte, daß die Szene, in der ich mich bewegt hatte, nicht alles war, daß es andere Lebensumstände zu entdecken galt." (S.192)
Honestly, I enjoyed this book.
Yes, it was frustrating that it wasn't more focused on what it was like to be a woman beatnik and the world surrounding her, but I thought the book was pretty well written and it kept me engaged.
The sex scenes were plenty and I genuinely enjoyed reading them and thought that the sex scenes were part of what made this a strong feminist novel.
In no way was this a perfect novel, but I found it engaging!
This is such a pornographic book, but wonderfully written.
I read it aloud to my current husband when we were in that first or second year of lust over the phone.
She did a very nice reading.
At this same time I was reading _Recollections of My Life as a Woman_.
I told her, I really enjoyed the book.
Anyway she wanted to sign that one, but it was a library book and in my hotel room.
So she reluctantly signed Memoirs of A Beatnik and it is on my prized book shelf by the art table, not in the basement.
I was really happy to read a book by a FEMALE beatnik, and although I liked it, I was disappointed in that I hoping she would turn out to be a genius. I was amused by the way in which she freely and frequently talked about sex every chance she got and then some, because I always appreciate sex-positiveness wherever it seems relevant. I was also kind of disappointed that she wasn't as literary (is that the right word for "writes a lot of books"?) as most of her male contemporaries.
I think what is most important reading this book is reading it in the context of when it was written. By today's standards it is alternately pompous, annoying, and bordering on romance novel-bad writing. But if you take it for the groundbreaking bad assitude that it was in the 50s, its a much better work of art.
I stumbled upon this title while wending my way through wikipedia. It was great. A 200+ page orgy. Very well written sex scenes, which is no small feat. Typical beat stuff, I thought, and I love that stuff: food, sex, poverty, crumby New York apartments. It made me feel more alive, or made me wish I felt as alive as Diane Diprima in the 1950s.
I had high hopes for this book, but I am sadly disappointed with it. Apparently being a female Beatnik meant having as much sex with as many different people in as many different ways as you possibly can. This book is basically porn that's been gussied up a little and called 'Beat'.
I want to reread this to better integrate my feelings about it, and hopefully I'll remember to update this review and change or justify four stars when I get around to that second reading.
Just a side note: Someone I worked with told me recently that when studying at Naropa he knew personally not only Diane di Prima, my true-blue Beat goddess of a woman making the goddamn 1970s patriarchy work for her while also being Her Own Babe--yeah, but he also met Allen Ginsberg, Patti Smith, Anne Waldman, etc etc.
Not many would label On the Road as pornographic but you bet your last dollar they labeled di Primas's novel pornographic and question its literary value.Women write about fictional sex in numerous romance novels and make billions of dollars, but once it is suggested that the sex is not fictional but the real experience of the author (which the word memoir does in this case) forget about it, this isn't literature, it's obscene.Did di Prima have sex with every human she met?
I'm really excited to read her real memoir to get a better sense of what her experience in the movement was like.
I've read a lot of reviews of it on goodreads putting it down as being second rate smut and how Di Prima wrote it merely for money, since she say's her publisher wanted MORE SEX in the afterword, but this is a vital pulsing book of a generation.
It's impossible to imagine "Memoirs of a Beatnik" without all of the sex, since that was a vital component to the life Di Prima was living.
In fact, it's missing the point entirely because Di Prima was a part of a movement flicking the bird at the dullness of '50's conformity, and while those are only words now, she managed to paint the era perfectly.
The sex scenes end up being almost a joke and later I found out it was because the publisher made her put in more and more and more sex.
Minus the gratuitous sex, this book is actually a pretty interesting account of what was happening in 1950's and 60's New York.
What a great melting pot that neighborhood was and how it really was a great time to be an artist cause the city was a lot more free in some ways and there were cheaper places to live.
Things just seemed a lot more interesting.
I found myself skipping through the weirdly written smut (please just use the word clit, Diane!!!
Euphemisms are for fanfic), as the rest of the book was pretty interesting.
It didn't, however, create a very complete picture of what it was like to live the beat life.
The fair few scenes that did convey what her beatnik life was like were interesting, though.
Maybe I'll give some of her other books a chance.
My advice is to skip this one unless you plan to hold the book with one hand....
A fascinating insight into the workings of the Beatnik generation through a woman's eyes. Through sex DiPrima expresses the melancholic, passionate vibrations of the American counterculture movement of the 50's and 60's.
Esta obra não deixa marcas no contexto da literatura beatinik. Nem sei bem se poderá ser considerado um texto beatnik ou apenas um texto pornográfico. Dentro da literatura sexual também já li muito melhor.
J'ai aimé ce livre mais surtout pour ce que l'on peut lire entre les lignes.
Mais en réalité Diana Di Prima a été contrainte à se conformer à cet exercice sous la pression de son éditeur qui lui demandait plus de sexe pour "faire vendre." Si au début elle joue le jeu, très rapidement elle commente elle-même avec beaucoup d'auto-dérision son propre récit( notamment avec l'imbrication de deux scénarios, un licencieux et l'autre réel: what you wish had happened/what really happened).
Le fait d’être publié en tant que roman érotique lui permettait d'aborder des sujets qui auraient sinon été censurés.
