https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15841699-walker-evans
The Grandaddy of all American Photo books. Beautiful, bleak, mysterious, and one can smell the depression right off the pages. Great.
Photograph 10 is a picture of an actual couple driving a car.
This sort of narrative thread passes though almost every picture in this section.
It took awhile, but I noticed a similar sort of thread in section 2 of the book.
Initially, this portrait seemed to be one of entropy, and its contrasts, but by the end of the book I felt like Evans was getting at something else as well.
I could say I forgot how poor America was, but really I never learned it like this.My favorite picture is photo 14, section 1.
A wonderful photography book and now must go to the Met the next time I am in town.
I bring this initial image up because a casual Google search would make you think Walker Evans’s work mostly consisted of his portraits for the Farm Security Administration.
And as the opening picture indicates, Evans’s has a commitment to the photobook format, making one loaded with symbolic value and meaning.I came to Walker Evans out-of-order after reading Robert Frank’s The Americans, and the intertextual relationships between the two are apparent.
Like Robert Frank, candid photography does not hide the presence of the photographer; often there is someone who is looking at Walker Evans with suspicious eyes.
And like Frank, Evans often opts for photographs with open-ended, incomplete narratives.
While many of the technical aspects of photographic reproduction and of printing processes have evolved, this new edition faithfully follows the first edition, including the fine essay by Lincoln Kirstein, lifelong friend and enthusiastic patron of Evans.
New to this edition are a Note on the history of the various editions and technical progress and Acknowledgments, which discusses the sources of prints assembled for this edition.Taken over a ten-year period, the stark, haunting photos reveal an America at a troubled time, when uncertainty about the future haunted the land.
It's troubling to see the parallels between then and now, with a fading past and a threatening future.
It's easy to see why this body of work was so influential but hard to believe someone had this kind of photographic vision as early as the mid-30s -- people are still creating images just like this. But somebody had to do it first, I suppose. Profoundly moving, yet impassive. The cliche "a picture is worth a thousand words" is a grotesque understatement when applied here. A thousand books, maybe.
I often turn to study these photographs. Lincoln Kirstein's accompanying essay is a classic in its genre.
Like I said, he was a genius.
Brilliant; one of the most compelling sets of American photographs. Good inspiration for black and white post-processing.
One of the collections that schooled my eye a half-century ago when I studied photojournalism.
Love this. Features about 80 black-and-white photographs from the 1930's. Several are of people; almost all are candid. Many of the other photos are of homes or businesses.Debuted in 1938. Republished by the Museum of Modern Art in 2012.Here are captions from a few of the photos.A Bench in the Bronx on Sunday, 193342nd St., 1929Wooden Gothic House, Massachusetts, 1930Sidewalk in Vicksburg, Mississippi, 1936Garage in Southern City Outskirts, 1936Arkansas Flood Refugee, 1937Borrowed via intra-library loan thru my wonderful local library.
Due serie di immagini collegate da un filo che è un piacere cercare di inseguire. Con eleganza, forza estetica e acume sociale, 20 anni prima di The Americans di Robert Frank questo libro rivoluzionario fonda le basi della fotografia come linguaggio artistico moderno, coerente, potente e innovativo. Quasi inedita per allora anche la disposizione di una sola foto a tutta pagina con la pagina a fronte bianca, e questa edizione è la riproduzione fedelissima dell'originale.I saggi di accompagnamento sono pallidi a confronto del contenuto di cui parlano. Indispensabile.
A favorite - this edition is a great compendium of Walker's wonderful images.
Lincoln Kirstein's essay baffled me.
Beautiful prints, horrible essays.
I have spent countless hours in these photographs, and I will spend countless more.
there's nothing to say.
