https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/878065.The_Turquoise_Lament
The basic plot of a likable, affable sociopath who fools both McGee and Meyer would be used again — and in a more resonating way — in MacDonald’s next to last Travis McGee novel, Cinnamon Skin.Each entry in any great series has its own atmosphere and value, however, and Turquoise Lament stands alone quite nicely.
Not the lech some over the years have misleadingly portrayed MacDonald’s hero as, McGee of course emphatically declines, taking Pidge back to her father, Ted. MacDonald, however, understood the wistfulness of what might have been, that twinge of regret every man feels at perhaps passing up something wonderful — even when it’s the right thing to do.
Examining his own heart, McGee finds that he has fallen in love with Pidge, and coincidently he gets a letter from her proclaiming her own love and saying that they’ll start a life of bliss together right after she gets done with this risky ocean voyage alone with the husband she recently informed of her wish to divorce and that she once thought might be trying to kill her…..At first, McGee is ecstatic, but then he belatedly figures out that Howie is a total sociopath involved with a complicated scheme regarding Pidge’s inheritance.
"A bore is a man who deprives you of solitude without providing you with company."- Gian Vincenzo Gravina, quoted in Turquoise LamentIt wound-up really well, but puttered a bit at the middle, and was predictable at the end.
In the end, however, the girl-in-peril scenario just didn't really work.
She was obnoxious and the whole routine of the chase and rescue was like an over-long aerial tram cable: it begins to sag in the middle.I've been reading Ian Fleming's Bond series around the same time as MacDonald's McGee novels and I love and hate both series.
Gutsy, impulsive, motherless, and insecure, a 17-year old Pidge stowed away on Travis's boat, the Busted Flush, and attempted a probative seduction.
Travis delivered her back to her father, of course, and a year later, Pidge went off to college.
Two years later, her father, Professor Ted, died in a motorcycle accident, and Pidge inherited her father's boat, the Trepid, and a sizable trust fund.
Frank had worked on Professor Ted's crew along with Travis and Meyer, and has an interesting story to relate as well as a question that up to then had been overlooked.
A slow start but plenty of mystery and suspense once it got going. In this one we find Travis going to the aid of a previous acquaintance who feels like shes losing her mind and hearing voices whilst also chasing down a valuable item missing from her fathers estate.Pretty good overall but quite a lot of time spent on the backstory of certain events.
I had a few laments myself as I read this book.
I've reread all but one of the series (out of order,) and I've noticed that McDonald's characters tend to speak alike unless they're from another country.
And what it is, is, many sentences are written in the style of this sentence, no matter who is speaking.
Next lament: I found the beginning of the book boring.
I'm sure treasure-hunting is incredibly difficult work, but I don't want to read a for Dummies edition of how it's done.
Of course women rarely enter a Travis McGee novel without having trouble in tow, and Pidge Llewellyn's troubles pull McGee to Hawaii and Pago Pago, while along the way MacDonald gets to share information on recondite areas of interest, including estate law and the onerousness of maintaining a private yacht.
Even looking toward the morning brightness, I had a good view of the coast.
Tiny churchgoing automobiles were stacked up at the lift bridges, winking in the sun, and making a whiskey haze that spoiled the quality of the light."SPOLIER ALERT:Clearly I have read too many Fleming 007 novels: when MacDonald described a gondola tram in great detail about 2/3rds of the way through the novel, I new exactly where the story's climax would take place.
Travis McGee is so perfect, like all those 1960s heroes who are chipped from bronze, who have beautiful women buzzing around their heads like flies, and whose wallets are always filled with the wherewithal to go at a moment's notice to far and exotic places.
Maybe I'm getting too old for formulaic wish fulfillment novels.
So I'll just let the old Busted Flush (McGee's boat) sail off into a perfect sunset while I continue to try to survive in an increasingly perplexing world -- one too perplexing for those kinds of sureties.
Published in 1973 and is the 15th book to "star" Travis McGee. Again, great names for some of the characters - Pidge and Howie.
Travis is a great character and certainly, on the surface, seems to live a life dreamed by most men.
John D MacDonald (1916-1986) .
It is your inner image of yourself, and if you look in there and see a man who won't cheat, then you know he never will." MacDonald's style seems to me to be sparse and quick paced which helps to move the intricate plots forward with a momentum that just grabs the reader.
3.5*Very suspenseful! Spoiler!(view spoiler)[And what a nice surprise that for once McGee is in time to save the girl rather than having to revenge her! (hide spoiler)]
I particularly liked this line: “The parking meters at the beach area stood like a small lonely forest of Martian flowers” (p144).THE TURQUOISE LAMENT is one of the few examples of Travis McGee actually living up to his euphemistic job title as a “marine salvage consultant.” Along with Meyer, he gets involved in an undersea treasure-hunting expedition and, later, in a determined effort to recover Professor Ted Lewellen’s cache of treasure maps and research materials (potentially worth tens of millions).
Another minor biographical tidbit for fans: THE TURQUOISE LAMENT reveals how far tight end Travis McGee got as a football player (p178)!
This novel was not the usual "Travis McGee" adventure.
It started very slow where I get to the point of boredness, and just continued hoping the story will alter in a past-paced direction, which it did.
The thrill start building up when Travis start looking for Linda's (Pidge)husband Howie Brindle's past.A sociopath who's planning his wife's demise just to get a bequest left by her father before he met an accident.
A coexecutor defrauding his client in connivance with a hostile husband.
But Travis McGee was always ahead of the game, and adept at solving the mystery where Pidge needed his help the most.
Solid entry in JDM's Travis McGee series. The knight-errant from The Busted Flush this time helps out an old friend with a loopy husband. Lots of philosophical asides from Travis that fit into the plotline. Good action sequences. Enjoyable read.
Not made sense

***.This episode from the trials of Travis McGee presents us with a side of Travis that doesn’t show him off well.
The daughter of an old friend of his calls Travis and asks for his help.
Travis goes to her, but rather than addressing the issue, he manages to fall in love with her.
This does not preclude his affair with a nurse who is taking care of his old friend, Meyer, in the hospital.
I’d have to rate this as one of my least favorite McGee books.
There’s a side to McGee that we didn’t see before, and doesn’t add much to his reputation.
This is my eleventh John D. MacDonald mystery along with his beach boy character, Travis McGee. A clever mystery and the best to this point. Travis gets out of Florida in this adventure and half way around the world having to deal with bankers, attorneys, fortune hunters, and the beautiful rich people of the world whom he has little patience for. Unlike most of his ventures, he actually winds up with the girl
Another excellent book in the Travis McGee series by John MacDonald. McGee helps a gal whom she knows through her father. Things in her new life with a marriage just doesn't pan out. She flys to Hawaii to help and finds nothing wrong. He returns to Florida with some suspicions. He investigates her husband and flys to Pago Pago to check if she is still alive.
✭✭½
Apparently a classic 1970s mystery novelist I'd been unfamiliar with until now. Really great details and observations about humanity and life.
had a huge crush on this character at a time I needed a knight errant desperately.
I serendipitously bought this at a junk store in Waldport for .50 just so I could break a $20. Turned out to be the perfect beach read.
Meyer says that not only are the New People incapable of being alone and idle without cracking; they feel compelled to turn all loners into group animals like themselves.
She is a husky boat, built like a workboat, and if you want to use a small jib like a staysail and go on diesels, she can give you almost three thousand miles at eight or nine knots, depending on the condition of her hull at the time.
It is a small, delicious and important risk which is being taken an uncountable number of times a day -- two-person encounter groups making initial contact in the office, plant, supermarket, waiting room, banquet hall, country club, bus station, cocktail bar.
This book was originally published in 1973, 9 years after the series begins with a Depp Blue Goodbye.Travis McGee novels, and probably John D.
And I primarily critique what is for the me the three most crucial elements of a (fiction) book: the plot, the characters, and the overall writing style.Travis McGee novels have one plot.
Mostly I recommend Travis McGee to people who want to watch an interesting character move from book to book over a long-ish period of time.
Travis McGee is one of my all time favorites.
I was a bit disappointed at old Trav when he suddenly falls head over heels for a young lady who he hasn't known since she was a girl.
Suddenly he wants to settle down and be all domestic?
This was very un-McGee and after traversing the globe to rescue his girl, she just gets written away (thank goodness) but in a way that signaled "this was a bad idea and I have to get the book to publishing, so out she goes." I cared little for Travis's whining and reliance on Meyer to 1) solve his mysteries 2) kick some life into him.
This was published in 1973, and I probably read it soon after it was published.
I probably read all of the Travis McGee series, more's the pity for my younger self.
The first I remember reading was Pale Gray for Guilt (1968), and I'm sure I went back, caught up, and kept up as they were published.
As I suspected, McGee has not held up well.
But just as I remembered, the sophomoric philosophizing; cookie cutter, pneumatic damsels in distress with cutesy names ("Pidge," in this outing); and general air of faux world-weariness, gummed up the prose with toxic 60s sludge.
I don't plan to reread the series.
Travis McGee's wide ranging friends know they can call on him when the chips are down, really down. He may have been absent from their lives for years, but with an aching need to repair connections that mean a lot to him. He lives life as an outsider, but that very independence is what makes him available to be a hero at any given moment. I need a friend like him.
Fantastic story keeps you going back as clues keep piling up. A great one!
Classic McGee. This is classic Travis McGee. I have read all of John MacDonald's Books at least three times and they are still a delight.
One of my favorites in the McGee seriesA complex wonderful entry in the series as it slowly winds down. I don't want it to end. Highly recommended.
