https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/523468.Cress_Delahanty
My mother recommended this book to me when I was a teenager in the late 80s and I read it and liked it then...even though I was at an age where I didn't necessarily want to like the books my mother recommended to me.
I found that parts of it really stayed in my memory in a haunting, favorite-book sort of way, which I hadn't expected.
I re-read "Cress" and it is what now I consider to be definitely without a doubt one of my favorite books.
It has exceptional descriptive writing along with a very funny and poignant narration of the young main character, Cress Delahanty.
This short little book, is divided into five parts.
Each part highlighting a year of Cress's life, from age twelve to sixteen.
Each little chapter narrates an incident in her life.
But the author did not use obvious humor, or zany antics to entertain her readers; just the true-ness of how young girls think, act, and interpret, life.
This book was told, really quite re markedly well from not only this young girl's perspective, but her parent's as well.
I was given a reading list by my favorite lit teacher, a list I still have 40 some years later. It's still a great list. Cress Delahanty was one of the books on that list. I read this book the first time when I was in high school. I read it every ten years or so. Cress is such a delightful teenage girl, believable when I was 16 and just as believable now that I am the grandmother of a teenage girl. Should be required reading for every mother of a flighty sensitive intelligent teenage girl.
Fun to reread this book that I read several times as a teen & young adult! West's character construction is really excellent. The stories were published individually, & the book is a bit disjointed as a result - not all the threads carry through. But it's a fascinating glimpse of a girl's coming of age in a particular time & place, 1940s California - but West's sensibilities feel very cosmopolitan & contemporary to me.
A whimsical and at times gloomy coming of age story. Cress is an amazing character, I only wish the book didn't end and we could read about her adult life. I first read this years ago in junior high or highschool and since then probably have gone back to it a dozen or so times to read again.
I like books about thinkers... this is a thirteen year old girl's version of Darkness at Noon. Ha.
I could read this book every year I love it so.
And they probably don’t call their parents “mother” and “father.” But while the context has changed the emotional landscape of adolescence probably isn’t all that different -- although most likely it’s much more difficult to navigate for today’s teenage girls than it was for Cress who grew up in the late 30’s and early 40’s.That was right about the time my mother was a teenager and although she lived on a farm in central Iowa unlike Cress who grew up on a citrus farm in California, I couldn’t help but wonder how much of her emotional coming of age mirrored Cress’s.
Every time I say I'm done with these episodic bildungsromans I find another one that pulls me in. Cress is dreamy, slightly morbid, and not overly good like some of these characters tend to be (I'm looking at you, Anne, but I love you). It's an interesting one especially if you're looking at other novels in the same vein, from different time periods. Otherwise, it's just a refreshing and short little YA book that has a touch of nostalgia.
This was ok, but not quite what I was hoping it would be. Cress as a person flopped between being enjoyable, strange and annoying which I suppose is quite accurate for a teenage girl!Her parents were nice though and only had her best interests at heart.I didn't get what the ending was trying to do at all and it just left me baffled.
I'm sure I had read it many, many years ago but I only remembered one scene. Maybe I had read an excerpt (in high school, perhaps).
Have no recollection of this book, but just found reference to it in my diary.
A contemporary of JD Salinger (Catcher in the Rye, 9 Stories), Delahanty was just as well celebrated as he was, but didn't get all the reprints.
We found this collection, which is a loosely strung together novel (originally, the chapters were pubbed in separate periodicals) about a young, precocious, preteen growing up in the southern California when Orange Grove boulevard was still an orange grove.
The writing style is a bit outdated (by that, I mean slow moving), but it's beautiful nonetheless.
It may be hard to relate to this book, since it's written in a lah-lah land sort of way, but it's enjoyable too in that it makes me think of listening to my grandma's stories.
I read this book many many years ago (at least 40 years ago, maybe closer to 45!) and loved it. It's always stuck in my mind as an excellent book about a young girl in her early teens, and all that that entails. The California setting seemed so exotic to me. I no longer have my copy of this book but I hope to track another copy down as I'd love to read it again.
This was a very important book to me when I was 13 so I decided to give it another read at age 69. Cress's pondering and planning and executing her life certainly set goals for me as a young teen. So I am amazed how much it rings true to me as an old lady. This girl is a real thinker and she made it Ok for me to spin all the wild thoughts in my head. Good read at any age!
This was, without a doubt, one of the strangest books I have ever read. It jumps from place to place and year to year like a grasshopper on a sugar-high. Sometimes I completely empathized with Cress and other times I couldn't figure, for the life of me, what she was driving at. Besides this, it was an enjoyable read.
At age 17 this book was recommended to me by my favorite teacher. Written in the40's this book has a timeless feel and yet you can go to the past of what it was like being a teen with the myriad of feelings you experienced!
I thinks this is a classic book of a teenage girl trying to figure out life...it was written in the 1940's. It is pretty well done. Cress is a pip and is quite dramatic, but then most teenage girls are. This book was a little hard to get through but pretty well written.
Great coming-of-age novel!
Ah, Cress! A delightful young feminist and getter into trouble. I hadn't realized West had died so long ago (1984). I always have enjoyed her work.
Read this so many years ago...it still is wonderful
Cress passes through her teen years in 1940's Southern California.
The writing was truly a delight. Very insightful.
My first Jessamyn West, & i was in love with her. I even named my daughter Jessamyn, really.
This is on my BIG list of books to read. It is another coming-of-age story of a young girl living in S. Calif. It kept myinterest. I like Jessamyn West books.
B. fiction, mom's stash, keep
Read way too long ago for me to remember enough to start handing out stars.
Read as a teenager. Remember my mother knew of the book which made me want to read it more. Don't remember loving it.
I read this when I was eleven & adored it. I reread it every year or so for a decade & then decided I didn't like the second half of the story. Now, I am rediscovering it.
