https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5205.A_Map_of_the_World
Dear God, the exercise in bleakness that was "A Map of the World" - what possible point was there in forcing us through the baby-drowning, the molestation accusations, time in jail, and so on? In the words of Dorothy Parker, a book that should be flung away with great force.
Review contains some spoilers...This book was well written, however it was terribly depressing.
A child she is watching for her best friend drowns in her lake while she is distracted.
The characters were compelling (even if I didn't like them much!) And the prose was well written.
But honestly it felt like watching a train wreck, knowing I should look away, but continuing to look.
And the same held true for the protagonists best friend.
And I also pray that if it does that I will be a better friend and wife than is portrayed in this book.
I am not going to pass this on to anyone as I would not recommend it.Although I liked the story I did not like the writing style.
I found the narrative wordy and found myself skipping over paragraphs that didn't advance the story.
Also, the story was a bit harsh - the people on the subdivision were made out to be mindless drones, "everyone" was against Alice - too black and white.When I finished the book I read the paragraph about the author and wasn't surprised to see that it is from the same author as The Book of Ruth - another book I didn't care for.
On a particularly stressful summer morning, Alice is babysitting for her best friend's daughters who have come to play when one wanders off and falls into their pond and is later declared brain dead.
Everyone is terribly devastated but Alice blames herself and falls into a deep depression, barely able to function or care for her family.
The pov of the story alternates between Alice and Howard, which is quite effective, letting us understand each one's innermost thoughts and feelings and how they deal with these crises in their lives.
What a powerful and devastating story which illustrates how quickly a good life can fall apart.
So I'm not a huge fan of Oprah (or even a little one), but she sure knows how to pick a good book.
Jane Hamilton is an author from (and still living in) Wisconsin where this book takes place.
the book is about a woman whose life turns upside down in a matter of weeks.
This was an interesting approach which I have never seen before (and really enjoyed).While the book is certainly no pick-me-upper, it made me feel such real and intense emotions I honestly felt my heart aching at times.
The most outstanding thing about this books is the 'voice'.
It's written in first person, mostly from the female POV, but there's a well done section from the voice of her husband.
The story is emotionally intense and can be hard to read for some people.
It might have been depressing if the writing had been mediocre, but the author's exploration of the character's mental state is brilliant.
If you are a writer and want to study an incredible first person voice and brilliant writing, I recommended this book highly.
A book has to squeeze even five stars out of me.
It was also why I enjoyed House Of Sand And Fog. The circumstances are tragic in both of these books, yet it does make me wonder how a small misstep or error in judgement can result in so much going wrong.
The error in judgement by the main character here is something I have done, yet the results were not tragic by some turn of fate.
I don't read books about horrible things because I want them to happen or even think that they will happen.
Terrible things happen to people all the time and I feel that if I can read about it maybe I'll be more prepared when it does.
As I began reading this book, I thought I would really enjoy it because the writing is wonderful and the story (a farm family trying to make it work as suburbia grows up around them, then the tragic drowning of a little girl in their pond) seemed good too.
However, it started out as one story and transformed into a different one (the wife, a school nurse, accused of abuse by a student and the ensuing challenges) and I didn't see the point in the change.
The last 1/3 of the book was almost drudgery to get through, but I kept hoping to find a point...one never appeared.
Whether you love this book or not will depend upon a couple of things, one of them being whether you can tolerate being emotionally consumed by the plot and characters, even when the subject matter of each is heartwrenching.
This is a painful book to read, but I give it five stars because I think the writer did a beautiful job of telling this painful story,and it happens to be a story that resonates with some of my worst fears.
I think in this the book was unique as well.
I think this is a great value to the book as well.
I loved this book.
There is hardly anything more depressing than this story.
Call me wacky, but I just didn't need to wade into a tale about three unhappy people, two of whom are having an affair, another of whom accidentally allows the other's child to drown in her creek and then goes to prison for it.
I understand that Sigourney Weaver played the prison woman in the film of the book.
Why is it that depressing tomes like this always get the acclaim?
But don't people get enough of horrendous events in their real lives?
Do they really need to soak in fictional misery as well?
I read this book a few years ago, but I still remember vividly how much it moved me. This was one of those books that I just couldn't stop thinking about for weeks after I read it and when I turned the last page I knew it was one of those books that's impossible to follow, so I shouldn't bother to try reading a book I'm expecting to be really good after it. Point in case- I don't even remember what it was I read right after this book.
I don't really know what to say about this book now.
Throughout the story, Alice and Howard were both given their own voices, but were also spoken about by each other.
It surprised me that seeing Alice from inside her head was much different from seeing her through Howard's eyes.
You wouldn't have known Alice's version of Howard from his own...
It made me question how well it is really possible for us to know others.
Who sees us better: ourselves from inside, or others from outside?
Was Howard's version of Alice more or less correct than her own self image?
This book follows a woman named Alice who grew up a bit lost, unbalanced and in need of a compass in life.
Having lost her own mother at a young age and brought up by a friend of the family, Alice has difficulties making connections between actions and consequences, thinking that few things in her life have or will ever make sense.
This book explores how people change under pressure, when their lives spiral out of control.
In the end, a twist in the story occurs, allowing Alice a means of absolving her guilt.
I first read this when Emma was four years old, or thereabouts. It gave me nightmares, panic attics, the shakes. It is pretty much every mother's nightmare, every marriage's nightmare, every best friend's nightmare, all rolled into one.Much later when Emma was old enough to swim (I think she was in high school and on the swim team at the time) I re-read this and was able to separate myself enough from the terror and the loss that it was a much better and less sleep-depriving read.One of my favorites, now that the girls are all grown up.
Dear God!!! Read this book! I will never forget the feelings I had while reading it. And like with every good book, the sad empty feeling of it being over...
I suspect it may not survive the test of time that would call it literature, but it is a compelling read.
It is a story told from memory.
The summer had been a test of some sort.
It is not the saddest story I have ever read, but most of it ranks somewhere in the upper part of such a list.I have read Jane Hamilton before with her The Book of Ruth, but it was too many years ago that I don’t recall enough about it to know whether it was also filled with sadness.
Alice and Howard live on the last family run dairy farm in Prairie Center, WI.
Though the cookie cutter subdivisions are fast encroaching, the couple is content in raising their daughters in peace.
Only Alice feels the watchful, judgmental stares of the townspeople.
The book begins from Alice’s point of view.
About 50 pages in her best friend’ daughter drowns in her pond under Alice’s supervision.
Flipping between perspectives of Alice and Howard, Hamilton creates a couple who are deeply connected, dependent on each other, in Love even, and yet unable to share their feelings and on the brink of loosing their marriage.
At times riveting A MAP OF THE WORLD could also be terribly long winded. I enjoyed Howard's voice more than Alice's. I also found the prison commentary a bit tedious.
But I was happy she didn't, because after focusing so much on the Goodwin's lives before and during the trial, you need to know what happens to them after the trial.Another thing that struck me as extremely interesting, yet may be considered a spoiler in this reflection, was the use of a female as the accused sexual abuser.
Yet, Hamilton does set up the first 3rd of the story so we know Alice, the way she thinks, and the way she reacts.It's unfortunate that it was the middle of the novel that had to drag so much, only bumping up at a few moments.
Several years ago I noticed a copy of Jane Hamilton's A Map of the World and stuffed it into my bulging bag to purchase.
I haven't had much luck with her book club choices.As I opened the cover a couple weeks ago, I discovered a previous reader had left a post-it note: "An awful lot of introspective and retrospective in the beginning.
If that note hadn't been there, I think I would have given up on the story before I had gotten very far, but thanks to it I persevered.
A farm couple, Howard and Alice, struggling to make their living and working hard have two small daughters.
But as much as you criticize other people for doing it, you find yourself rubber-necking anyway.Still, it is quite a good book.
I’ve had it on my shelf all these years, never tossing it during any of my shelf-purges because it has always held the undisputed status of “keeper.” I’m glad I re-read it.
I’m not the same person I was 20 years ago; for one thing I’ve become a mother in that time, so my reaction to the story is simply different than it ever could have been back then.
I have read several reviews that portray this book as being very depressing, sad, solemn, etc.
The author put the reader inside the head of Howard and Alice.
I would be curious to see what readers thought of the charcters, Teresa, Alice and Howard.
But when she described the women she met in jail and how she admired their toughness and their wisdom.
You would think Alice would be in the darkest part of her life in jail.
He blamed Alice for the sadness in their life and I felt he was unwilling to bend even the slightest to make the best of a situation.
Though many opinionated it a series of misfortune befalling Alice, I would depict it quite the opposite.
Alice, having to deal with one despair was again snarled with another, which I believe helped her to get through the other.
I believe Jane is one of the few writers that are able to pen down a life saga so sensibly that you might find hard to believe that is it just a novel.
Jane has become one my most favorite writer.
Map of the World is a must read novel for its astounding story unified with Jane’s talent.
One day, just for a moment, Alice Goodwin stops watching her best friend's two-year-old daughter and the child drowns in the Goodwin's pond.
The tragedy opens a Pandora's box of troubles.
Alice is accused of child abuse, thrown in jail, and put on trial.
The drowning of Lizzy in Alice's pond, 2.
The accusation of child molestation (Alice accused by troubled Robbie Mackessy) and the jailing of Alice, and 3.
The trial and release of Alice (not guilty).
The rest of the book seemed forced!...Howard and Theresa's pseudo-affair, the selling of the farm, Alice's jail experience.
At the time I read this I had small kids and had a close friend with kids the same ages. I could see something like this happening so easily and it scared me, not only about losing a child, but losing a close friendship because of losing a child-- either yours or theirs. And losing that friend just when you need her the most!! OH-- the pain!! A double loss! This was a well-written engrossing book. Deeply moving. I love Jane Hamilton's style.
The death of her friends child was beautifully written, her description of her depression without calling it depression, amazing. IMHO that's where the story should have ended. Why tack on a child abuse charge, a trial, jail, and her husband cheating?
This book was full of tragedy - the accidental death of a child, the loss of a career, a marriage in jeopardy, and possible sexual abuse of many children.
Last year we did have a case about a child lying about a classroom aid.
Again, every report of abuse must be investigated for a child, but I have seen the other side of things when a lie is told and a professional has their career on the line.This book had my blood boiling and also had me trying to look at every angle to figure out what was the truth.
I liked this book. I'll probably forget that I read it because it wasn't necessarily... massively heart touching or anything but I enjoyed the read and the author's writing style. I'm also glad that I bought it... but just at a library book sale for $1.
I think this was effective in this story because it made the reader consider an alternative perspective on both the events and the other characters.
Theresa's perspective is not shown, except through her dialogue with Alice and Howard.
Although it would have been interesting to hear Theresa's side of the story, I don't think it would have been necessary.The writing about love, mercy and forgiveness is beautiful in parts.
Although it may be in keeping with the characters and the moment it described, I have grown a bit tired of all the public flattery of Oprah.
Instead, Jane Hamilton chose to explore how characters and relationships would struggle and change as a result of these events and she does it masterfully.
Hamilton changes voices, first writing from the perspective of the main character (Alice), then from her husband (Howard), and finally from Alice's perspective again.
But it's hardly important at that point as you will be so engrossed in the struggles of the characters, their experiences, and the lasting affects the events of the book will have on all involved.Why only 4 stars and not 5?
There were moments (however brief and minor) in which certain characters were a bit "too much," too stereotypical in some way.
