https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4502660-bonjour-tristesse-a-certain-smile
Bonjour Tristesse & A Certain Smile, both novellas by Sagan have been on my TBR for years, and I am so glad I finally read them.
I was intrigued.I had no idea that Sagan was only 18 when she wrote Bonjour Tristesse, but reading the novella I had been wondering what age group the author was writing for.
I'm just not sure, that the reader is given much of a chance to explore the additional issues before the main plots - the romances in both novellas - end.
Cécile does not appreciate Anne's plans to marry her father and put an end to Cécile's freedom and her meetings with the older man from next door, so she starts plotting to remove her future step mother out of the picture.The bored teenager sets in motion a course of events that she has never imagined and that will impact her life forever.As I was reading, I could feel the warmth of the sun, the sound of the sea, and I was living and breathing the decadent lifestyle of the protagonists.Sagan paints a portrait of these characters so vividly that even though they are despicable, spoiled people, it is impossible to hate them - they are deeply flawed and human, and Cécile is the perfect portrayal of a scheming rich girl who does not realize the impact and consequences that her actions will have.A must read and a book that I thoroughly recommend!“A strange melancholy pervades me to which I hesitate to give the grave and beautiful name of sorrow.
Contrary to the last book I read, as part of my "Classics" experiment (Paul Auster's "New York Trilogy"), I'm sure as hell glad I picked this one up!Francoise Sagan's first two novels have proved short, sweet and to the point ~ making the couple of days (on/off) it took me to read them highly enjoyable and utterly worthwhile.
One simply cannot help but marvel at the maturity and writing prowess of the (18 year old) author ~ while, simultaneously, looking forward to everything else she has to offer.I have to admit to being totally enthralled by Ms. Sagan's work, of which I, definitely, plan to read more in future (looking up The Unmade Bed & That Mad Ache, as we "speak").All in all, a highly recommended read!
Oh, Bonjour Tristesse - why do you have to only be one hundred and nine pages?
I took as long as I possibly could to read this novel.
For a few days, Bonjour Tristesse became my world.
And what a world...Bonjour Tristesse is the perfect literary holiday.
It's that rare bird; a novel you can escape into, that will also keep you thinking.
Okay, so the novel's not without tragedy - it's called Bonjour Tristesse, after all - but really, who can resist a twisted love story?(Or is that just me?)Anyway - my full review is right here on my blog, Book to the Future.
I expect that much of this novel is semi-autobiographical because she managed to perfectly capture the narcissism, emotions and angst of teenage life.In 1955, a censored translation of Bonjour Tristesse hit the shelves for English speaking readers.
Françoise Sagan and Johann Wolfgang von Goethe both managed to capture the intensity of emotions in their novels that I have not experienced in more recent books.Bonjour Tristesse is a stronger novel than A Certain Smile, but I think both books are worth experiencing.
I feel like Bonjour Tristesse had a depth that was not found in A Certain Smile.
So French it hurts - but in a good way. Beautiful writing, and poignant observations. It breaks all the 'rules' that exist now for style, which for me shows why those rules are there to be broken. A book(s) I'll definitely revisit when I'm older and, hopefully, wiser.
Bonjour Tristesse might just be the perfect holiday read.Seventeen-year-old Cécile is spending the summer on the Cote d’Azur with her father, Raymond.
Into the mix comes Anne Larsen, a beautiful, sophisticated, elegant woman, close to Raymond in terms of age, and the polar opposite of the young, free-spirited Elsa.
Without really thinking about the potential impact on Elsa, Raymond has invited Anne – an old friend of his late wife’s – to come and stay at the villa for a while.
Writing fluently about both searing emotion and cold detachment, Sagan takes us on very real journeys of psychological development.
"Bonjour Tristesse" is the story of sixteen-year old Celine, her loving but "incurably frivolous" father Raymond and his latest distraction, the vapid Elsa...
Anne inspires in Celine a host of complex feelings - fear, irritation, admiration, respect - for "Anne made me question my morals - I lived life more intensely through her." When Raymond announces his intention to marry Anne, Celine's ensuing reactions and decisions unfold as a "particularly naked example of the human sensibility taking shape" (as is aptly described in the introduction).
"Bonjour Tristesse" is far and away the more beautiful twin in this compendium.
Two novels in this edition, written by the young and insightful teenager from 1950s French society, Francoise Sagan.... initial impressions have "chick-lit" in the frame, but after due consideration, this is provocative stuff from one so young... I have to admire her insight and ability to convey the emotions of lust, jealousy and unrequited love, though this is surely semi-autobiographical in nature... recommended to be devoured in an afternoon.
Excellent read. Loved that it pushed the boundaries for its time.
Хагацъя даа, гуниг миньСайн уу, гуниг миньХана, таазны дээр ч сийлэгдэжХайрлан ширтдэг нүдэнд минь шингэсэн чамайгХамгийн золгүй уруул хүртэл харааж зүхэхдээХөнгөн инээмсэглэдэг болохоорХөөрхийлж яавч боломгүй ээ!Сайн уу, гуниг миньСайхан чамайг хайрлахуйдТэр л хайрын хүчээрҮзэмж гоо чинь улам тодорчҮзэгдэх биеТэмтрэгдэх тэргүүн үгүй атлааҮлэмж том мангас адил биежих ажаамҮзэсгэлэнтэй юм аа, гуниг гэдэг
This Penguin Modern Classic is actually two novels (the quote above is from "A Certain Smile") more recently translated than the originals of the 1950s.
Scott Fitzgerald and Albert Camus and truly she has a remarkable literary sense that captures the world of a certain time and place through the eyes of a young woman coming of age in post WWII France.
It's been such a long time since I've read anything quite like this and I thoroughly enjoyed the experience of being immersed in her writing for the entirely of my 8 hour plane trip from London to DC.

okay getting rid of 15 year old tomas’ review. i considered this my favourite book after i first read it, now i’m 18 i think my liking of it shows my questionable moral judgement and lack of self awareness that i had at that age.
Cecile is one such child, someone who it would be hard to describe as innocent - at 17 she is aware and proud of her widower father's sexual conquests over vapid bimbos - but she is certainly naive in the pursuit of pleasure.
But it is not for her father, and it is not for Anne, the only woman daddy dearest appears to have dallied with in some time who is his own age.
I can't finish this review without at least a brief reference to the fascinating Electra complex going on here, as Cecile idolises the sexual prowess of her father, constantly referring to his handsomeness and perfection.
Small and perfectly formed. Enough said.
beautiful description of the awakening of sexuality and family feuds - and the writer was so young!
Great line: "The previous evening was gradually becoming clearer in my memory...when you are drunk you say things that are true and no one believes you."
I would have preferred to have lunch on my own, twirl a jar of mustard round between my fingers, and be vague, vague, completely vague.'It’s interesting that in both books the young, female protagonist greatly admires an older, more sophisticated woman and likes being doted on by that woman, but also does things that makes that woman’s life difficult.
But all the same, they are quite charming and do y.Françoise Segan was 17 or 18 when she wrote Bonjour Tristesse in the 1950s, and then A Certain Smile was published a year or so later.
I understand that France was very Catholic and conservative at the time, so a girl to speak so freely about her affairs might well have been refreshing, or caused a fuss, at least.I’ve read some negative reviews about both, although especially aimed at Bonjour Tristesse, claiming they didn’t like it as the characters weren’t likeable.
They are French in the sense that they are very reflective, wordy, willing to examine and theorise about subjects such as love and morality, not just tell a story.
Both have the same, self-conscious, self-examining tone, and the voice of the young narrator is very similar in both novels - not surprising of course since they both represent Sagan herself.
Character and plot are subordinate to the examination of morality and emotion.
Cecile manipulates the characters in her drama as if they were puppets, and only at the end does she realise that she is playing with the lives of real people.
L'étrangèreThere is something stylish about the emotional intelligence of a young French woman especially when coupled with the detachment with which Sagan endows her heroines.
Here are two first person narratives varying between the lightness of a young girl's fancy and the hard reflectiveness of an existentialist outsider.
Cecile in BT is triumphant in her accession over circumstance and the duality of passion and distaste, ultimately tinged with sadness.
Dominique in ACS comes unstuck when she finds herself in love with her partner in ennui, but finds the emotion less than real while her personality is yet overcome by it.
I myself found it interesting how, despite everything that happens over the summer, Celine and her father revert back to their previous way of life - I think that says a lot about what life is like in reality.
The plot itself seemed like something I wouldn't enjoy reading, so it took me by surprise just how good this novel is.
However I think this is because Celine does not know it herself.Although I gave this novel 5 stars, I would not consider it a favourite of mine because of its amorality and the bleak picture it paints of love.
Bonjour Tristesse - This story was absolutely fantastic, everything about it was amazing, the plot, the characters were all so decadent and hilariously "intellectual" that the ending came as a huge shock.
A Certain Smile - Strangely quite different from Bonjour Tristesse but at the same time had a beautiful writing style and excellent characters.
Halfway through the novel the character being bored bores the reader, though this is really clever it does slow the reading down a little, but it's worth it for the simplistic, completely un-dramatic rebirth at the end.
Definitely a new favourite author, I must read all of her works!!!
These two novellas are nice and short.
They are very beautifully written.
You might not like the narrator but she knows what she's about.
Bonjour Tristesse is deservedly very famous but its immediate impact on French society was because of its immorality.
Actually I think the book has depth.
The introduction to this edition by Rachel Cusk is very illuminating and sensitive.
But, I don't know, I think there is still more to this book than Rachel Cusk allows.
It has a certain sensual quality that makes it really live in your imagination.
You are there in the narrator's world.
On my plane ride home from Paris, I found a great fiction book (which I seldom do) at the London airport.
I read the whole thing on my flight home and instantly fell in love!
It's a collection of two short novels by Françoise Sagan - Bonjour Tristesse and A Certain Smile.
They were written in the early 50s by a young, French girl who failed out of the Sarbonne.
Lots of interesting themes - and I'm jealous I didn't write it!
She's called the French F.
Scott Fitzgerald...
If you get nostalgic for Paris - this will help.
A delightful short read.
3,5 stars.
Makes me want to read / speak French so I could enjoy this delicious pair of stories in the original language.Perfect for beach reading on îles de Ré cette semaine!
It's narrated by Cécile, a 17-year-old Parisian girl who is enjoying summer on the French Riviera with her playboy father, Raymond.
It's perhaps unsurprising, then, that when Raymond swaps Elsa for Anne, a sophisticated, intelligent family friend of his own age whom he announces he intends to marry, Cécile is worried that things might change.
Slim, tanned Cécile is effortlessly chic (as is her prospective stepmother Anne) and Raymond is the archetypal charming French womaniser.
'How difficult she made life for us,' Cécile says, 'with her sense of dignity and her self-esteem!'Although at times Bonjour Tristesse is very funny, it's also very poignant and bittersweet.
