https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/674257.I_Should_Have_Stayed_Home
In the same vein as McCoy's "They Shoot Horses, Don't They?" this tale concerns two struggling young Hollywood wannabes, a feisty girl who's hip to the BS and corruption of Tinseltown and her roommate she kinda has a crush on, a dopey farmboy who ends up getting led around by a lecherous old dowager who beds him down with promises of getting him a big break in the pictures. A 1930's "Mulholland Drive" minus the lesbiana, you won't be able to put this one down.
I found this awesome old Penguin whilst location scouting for my upcoming film production, I honestly didn't mean to buy anything but ended up with half a dozen really cool titles to check off of my lists.I've not read any McCoy before, I saw the movie of They Shoot Horses and felt like I had a good idea of what to expect but I didn't really expect to be comparing it to Day of the Locust, which I did and unfavourably so unfortunately.
It's a good little book but not something you expect to find in the green crime penguin.
There's not much in the way of crime going on here but what's there is a good quality piece of writing.
This is my first Horace McCoy book--of all of the authors I have hunted in my noir fiction scavenger hunt, he has been the hardest to find.
It does not have the twisted quality of Day of the Locust (which I adore--both film and book) but it made up for it in really great storytelling and an unusual point of view--so often these Hollywood dreams type of stories end up being narrated or about a woman or girl pursuing her dreams and being crushed at every turn.
As with most noir type books there are plenty of twists and turns and heartbreak around every corner.
This book deals with multiple dark and disturbing issues, but it's written as a classic thriller styled novel and it unveils the good, the bad and the ugly of life in Hollywood. I really enjoyed reading it, though at first I was skeptical.
Entertaining story about a rather naive twenty-three-old man from Georgia named Ralph Carston who goes to Hollywood to become a movie star.
They attend posh Hollywood parties and restaurants where Ralph runs into the rich socialite Ethel Smithers who takes a shine to him.
She keeps promising Ralph that she has the right connections to land him a screen test as they carouse around Hollywood.
There are a few humorous scenes, especially when the older, wiser Ethel seduces young Ralph, and the dialogue is often snappy like found in an old movie.
Barbara Stanwyck makes a cameo appearance along with the other marquee acting stars of the day.
There wasn't really a whole lot to this short novel, but what there was of it really hit the nail on the head.
The only thing keeping me from giving this novel an extra star is the fact there wasn't a whole lot to it other than angst, implied perversions, and a couple of very minor scrapes with the law.
This is the second book by McCoy that I've read and I feel like he rivals James M.
Cain for hard-hitting prose that just gallops across the page.
I liked this one.
The title refers to Hollywood (the idea and the literal town).
It's about doing anything for Hollywood success.
Adoraby, this book is from 1938 and the main character thinks "the good old days of film" are past.
Well, the book doesn't take place at MGM.The characters are "extras." I know this world, though in my day we call it "background." And, let me tell you, this is still going on.
Except people are perhaps less innocent now then they were in the day of this book.
Probably the greatest Hollywood novel ever, McCoy's I SHOULD HAVE STAYED HOME traces the fall of two would-be-Hollywood-stars, a couple of kids inspired by film magazines to go to Tinseltown to find fame and fortune.
Our poor sod of a hero, nice-looking but with a too heavy Southern accent, becomes a gigolo.
His more worldly roommate tries to keep his feet on the ground.
This is a noir, although one of temperament rather than action.
This is tragedy on a small scale, about delusions created by Hollywood, and subscribed to by the rootless youth of post Depression America.
McCoy is best known for his three novels: "I Should Have Stayed Home", "They Shoot Horses, Don't They?", and "Kiss Tomorrow Goodbye". His major themes: grim reality and the horribly neglected . His depiction of Hollywood in the 30's is still valid; storyline remarkably contemporary.
It was very Day of the Locust as far as mirroring the theme that Hollywood attracts dreamers who are never able to capture the prevailing myth of stardom and end up self destructing. The title is a humorous truth and depressing conclusion of the narrator.
Hollywood, 1938: Ralph Carston è uno dei tanti giovani di belle speranze che hanno lasciato la provincia sperduta in cui sono nati (in questo caso un paesino della Georgia) per trasferirsi nella Mecca del cinema e inseguire il sogno di diventare star.Niente va come deve: non solo non c'è lavoro, ma non c'è neanche l'occasione di fare un provino – l'unico che Ralph ha fatto è andato malissimo per colpa del suo accento.La logica vorrebbe che Ralph tornasse a casa, ma non può farlo, perché nelle lettere alla sua famiglia ha lasciato intendere di aver quasi sfondato e non ha il coraggio di raccontare la verità.Per puro caso una sera il ragazzo incontra una ricchissima vedova di mezza età, amica di tutta la gente che conta e, soprattutto, ninfomane.
30's noir at it's best .. sure, the lingo's dated and it's hard now to understand that punching a women on the nose was ok but the story of greed and corruption still resonate today.
A bit like The Day of the Locust, only not nearly as good. McCoy is turning out to be a bit of disappointment other than the exceptional They Shoot Horses, Don't They?
Gli illusi disillusiCome nel bel Non si uccidono così anche i cavalli?, anche in questo romanzo McCoy racconta le ombre dietro le luci.Le illusioni sono il pane di chi spera in un destino migliore, forze che muovono ma che non spingono, capaci di camuffare la realtà agli occhi di chi la vive nella speranza, un giorno, di sfondare in qualcosa - a differenza dei Sogni, che la realtà invece la modellano aprendovi nuove porte.Sono fisiologiche, e molti di noi se le raccontano spacciandole per Sogni.
Triste, ma umano.Qui siamo a Hollywood, che di illusioni ne ha create molte e molte altre continuerà a crearne.
McCoy's novel clearly expresses his time, but yet for me, it lacks poetry, which makes a noir novel great.The story is about a farm boy who comes to Hollywood to become, not an actor, but a star.
This may be the case, but it is also like any other business that produces goods for the population, and to be fair to McCoy, I think he conveys that very well.
He does come upon good people - for instance Mona, but also one of the producers, who is actually very kind in letting him know that he will never ever make it in Hollywood.
Woolrich's books weren't based in L.A. or Hollywood, but if you were to combine his sensibility and style, a bit of "Sunset Boulevard" and a heaping helping of Nathaniel West you'd have a decent idea of where Horace McCoy stands.
It perfectly captures the feel of that place at that time, and you are sitting on a bungalow stoop, and circling the pool at high end parties, and walking sun-baked dusty sidewalks just as the characters do.The great sadness of these books is that the dreams you watch wither and die were hopeless and doomed from the outset.
4 STARS (I received an ARC from NetGalley in exchange for an honest review).Ralph and Mona are down and out movie extras waiting for their big break into Hollywood.
During a court trial of a friend Mona is held for contempt and leads herself and Ralph into Hollywood society.
I immensely enjoyed my first novel by Horace McCoy. McCoy's writing reminds me of Cormac McCarthy and James M.
I was grabbed from the opening scene of a court trial to the end of the novel.
I recommend this novel to anyone who enjoys a gripping story.
McCoy wrote in the 1930s in a contemporary setting.
This story revolves around Ralph, a small-town hick who’s come to Hollywood to break into pictures, and his roommate Mona who is equally desperate to become a star.
McCoy didn’t sugar-coat the reality of Hollywood life or the effects of the Depression on Americans of all stripes.I’m not sure who approved the cover of this re-issue but I think it’s very much all wrong.While I was reading this, I was thinking it felt like "The Postman Always Rings Twice" meets "They Shoot Horses, Don’t They?", so I wasn’t too surprised to learn that McCoy did indeed write the latter.Read this if: you’d like a look at old-time Tinsel Town, stripped of its tinsel.
A compelling story about the difficulties of 'breaking' into Hollywood in the late 1930's. Mrs Smithers was an intriguing character, as was the pornographic sub-story, and there were some effective images such as Dorothy and the 'Instrument of Death' - but overall it read as a bit of a 'paint by numbers' Hollywood novel ... Nowhere near as polished as 'The Day of the Locust', but worth examining as a sideline.
This reminded me of a pulpier version of Nathaniel West's Day of the Locust. For much of the book I expected the narrator to wind up gunned down in a swimming pool by the end. Was surprised that he wasn't. It's a rough read, grim and cynical, but if you look you'll find some diamonds in it. Well worth it.
I ended up accidentally buying the kindle version of this when I was looking to buy his "They Shoot Horses don't they" (which was way more expensive than I thought a Kindle version should be).An enjoyable read, in some ways, but the atmosphere leads you to think something more is going to happen (or at least be observed) than actually is. Disappointing in the end.
An easy read about the struggle of two extras to make it big in 1930's Hollywood. The narrative is honest but feel incomplete, as it is with a lot of first novels. For any readers interested in the evolution of the Hollywood novel, this is a must read!
I have liked McCoy's books, they could have been written today rather than 70 years ago. The problem for me with this one was the main character was too naive and stupid to care about, he should have been less of a rube and slimy like the others.
A quick and satisfying read, at times brilliant. It's no Day Of The Locust, but it doesn't have to be to win my favor. The party scenes, especially the first and final dinners, are especially divine.
interesting picture of what it was like in 1930s when you weren't rich and every thing didn't turn out happily ever after. And the Hollywood scene for wannabes: again, very real people, not a star story.
A sad little tale of trying to make it in Hollywood. The main character is a little too earnest for my taste, but McCoy is such a good, focused writer that this can be ignored. I can't wait to read more of his books.
I have an interest in the class fiction from the depression. I also had an interest in portrayals of the life of journeymen film actors. This book has nothing really new to offer today. I should have skipped it.
Honestly, I can't remember why I decided to read this one, but it was a nice, simple story. Little more can be said, because little more exists to elaborate on. Skip this one, y'all.
Bleak, Hollywood noir.
I have the title embroidered on my throw pillows.
