https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183143.The_Mysterious_Code
Trixie Belden and her friends have a club, The Bob Whites of the Glen.
The teen sleuths are back on the case to discover the identity of the thieves before they ruin the fundraiser.The Mysterious Code is the 7th book in the Trixie Belden series.
Plot wise The Mysterious Code is one of the weaker books in the series.
All in all, another enjoyable visit to Sleepyside, but there are much better books in the series.
The books are a bit dated (just like Nancy Drew), but fun, quick reads.
I like reading a Trixie book in-between thriller or suspense novels to clear my mind a bit.
so many of my favorite Trixie moments happen in this book: the planning of the antique show, the crafting and refinishing of furniture, the discovery in the attic, the white dress with green trim (and matching green shoes!) (hey, I'm a fashion person. Of course I liked that part), the snowstorm,...I could go on, but I won't. I think this is one of the best in the series.
It is the seventh book in the Trixie Belden series, and I can tell you one thing about it: it is bad news.
When I told Mom how terrible it was, she said she was surprised, because most of the reviews said that Trixie fans liked the seventh book better than all the first six.
I spent almost a whole chapter of the seventh book bored to death because the new author wouldn’t stop telling me facts I already knew.But I was to discover more things that were wrong.
Some actual kid-worthy mystery this time, what with rooting around in an attic and yes, a mysterious code.
I could hear her thinking “why can’t my mom just be like everyone else’s sexist mom” lol).
Trixie’s mom buys her a GIRDLE to give her some curves but at least Trixie offers some opposition to the Girlification by choosing her own dress.
I’d have loved the budding boy-girl romance stuff as a kid but now it just seems in the way of the mystery.
Oh man, it's the first ghost-written book and things start getting crazy!- Even as a little kid, it was never clear to me what, exactly, the Sleepyside school board could stop the Bob-Whites of the Glen from doing, aside from maybe wearing their jackets to school.
No more hanging out in the refurbished gatehouse on the Wheeler's property for you!
Pooling your earnings is strictly forbidden!
Don't even think about making bird calls!- Seriously everyone needs to stop reciting paragraphs of facts about UNICEF.
- New characters everywhere.
Mrs. Vanderpoel is okay.
Brom is weird.
Token Japanese characters are tokens.- Dress-shopping.
Part of the reason I just don't like this book as much as the rest of the ones in the series is because it's so evident that it's by a different author.
Maybe if they had done something to improve the transition from author-to-author it would have been better, but nope.
*Since when did Trixie do cha-cha steps?
*Since when did Bobby speak in full sentences?!
But I did like the parts about Jim and Trixie.
(Surprise.) :) Anyway, once you get used to the different author(s) they are okay.
The first six books will always be the best, though.
It's been nearly a month since I read this one and very little of it has stuck with me, possibly because I kept waiting for things to happen--the exciting part comes almost in the last five pages of the book.
I do remember, from my childhood reading, being extremely frustrated with Jim's stupidity when Trixie tries to convey certain very urgent information secretly, and I was frustrated again this time.
At the beginning of the book, Trixie learns from the principal that the Bob-Whites of the Glen could be in danger of being disbanded by the school board for being a "secret society." In order to save the club, the B.W.G.'s host an antique show and sale to raise money for UNICEF.
Of course, Trixie stumbles upon a mystery when she finds a secret code--which later saves her life--and in a recent outbreak of robberies and school vandalism.I like this book because of the secret code, it appeals to my inner child.
This is odd, of course, because they were MEANT for teen and pre-teen girls, but I was a young boy that read everything he could get his hands on and when I first stumbled on my first TRIXIE BELDON book I was instantly hooked!
Trixie is the star, or "lead" character, followed by Jim and Honey (who quickly became the love of my young life, I had a total crush on a fictional character that only existed in ink) and this brave trio was constantly getting into trouble, solving mysteries and murders; that sort of thing.
I lost all of my Trixie books years ago, lending them to friends and that sort of thing.
However, the Bob Whites seem to have taken an odd turn deep into the Uncanny portion of being really damn nice.
The strongest example is when the extra-curricular clubs had to register with the school board.
The club with a number of the jocks was approved without discussion, but the Bob Whites were placed on probation and had to conduct a fund-raiser event for UNICEF to prove their worth in the eyes of the school board.
However, the writing was enough of a turn in the right direction that I’ll continue sticking with it for a while longer and see if the new writer hits her stride.
(Obviously the school couldn't really keep them from having a club outside of school, but this is the whole premise of the story, aside from this ridiculous idea for the plot, the rest of the story is interesting.)To prove they are a worthwhile club Trixie comes up with the idea of hosting an antique show and selling donated antiques to raise money for UNICEF.
The trouble starts when someone takes off with one of the donated antiques, the Bob-White's are certain someone is going to try and steal the rest of the valuable antiques, but of course the adults and local police generally dismiss their fears.Follow Trixie and the Bob-White's as they track down the vandals and thieves!
Loved the secret code aspect of the book as a kid. It seemed very Gold Bug like, after seeing a TV movie of the EAPoe short story.
Only just barely better than Saratoga. The mysterious Code part was solved by page 73 and didn't come back into it until one part at the very end. I hate trixie being matched up with Jim, and I hate hate hate Diana Lynch! She is so catty.
However, I loved Mrs. Vanderpoel and Brom, appreciated Spider, and the more formulaic mystery plot was familiar and I liked those, so despite the romance, and despite the fact that the characters no longer bantered as brilliantly as they did under JC’s hand, I decided I’d stick with Trixie a while longer.Reading it as an adult, I really notice a drop in the overall quality of the writing.
Gets the job done, I suppose, but can’t compare to JC’s much more integrated writing style.But, there’s the supper at the Belden’s, and the original characters (Mrs. Vanderpoel, Brom) get some attention and are interesting concepts, and I do have a weakness for plain ol’ mysteries.
The group is actively collecting and restoring furniture and valuable collectables, and strangers keep appearing in a menacing way - Trixie is so afraid they will be robbed again that she insists on going into town the night before the auction with Brian and Jim. While they play cards in the neighbouring viewing point, Trixie goes to the venue to finish pricing some items - there she learns that her suspicions are correct as robbers are stealing the valuables out the back door.
She hastily marks SOS in code on some price tags and when Jim comes to find out where she is, she tucks them into his pocket.
To prove the B.W.G.s are a group of peace and not vandalism, Trixie comes up with the idea of having an antique show to benefit UNICEF (how appropriate the date of this review is 2 days before Halloween - I still remember trick-or-treating for UNICEF!) While trying to find antiques to sell, Trixie discovers a key in the Wheelers' attic, leading her straight into another mystery.
Do the robberies and the mysterious code have anything to do with each other?
Leave it to Trixie and the Bob-Whites to solve this mystery.
A childhood favorite re-visited.Is the story as good as I remember?
– Most of a day’s read.Characters?
– Memorable, several characters.Setting?
– Real world, pre - computer pre - air conditioning, pre - cell phone.Written approximately?
– 1961.Does the story leave questions in the readers mind?
Also, the absence of computers, cell phones, and air conditioning in homes, especially the mansion.Short storyline: Trixie Belden, Honey, Jim, and her brothers struggle to save their club from the schoolboard who has decided to crack down on all clubs as gangs.
Bear in mind that the 4-star rating is relative to the Trixie Belden series.
Various authors penned the remaining books under the pseudonym Kathryn Kenny.This one was too overtly educational (Trixie, whose school grades suffer because of her extracurricular activities, is a walking authority on UNICEF?) but not nearly so as the previous installment.
And even in 1961 at publication, no teenager anywhere walked into a diner and ordered "french-fried potatoes." So the dialog is a bit stilted.But the plot is engaging, the setting (Catskill mountain communities in the winter) irresistible and the characters are fun.
I found it interesting to read a book from a "simpler" time (this book being written in the early 60's) It was fun to see the different between phrases used back then, that would never be used today.
I do think that I would read some more Trixie Belden novels if I come across them (got this one at a library book sale), but at the same time I'm not running out to get more.
As heartwarming as it is to step back to my youth in the pages of these mystery books, this novel had me wincing.
The cops walking a beat were fine, "Stick 'em up, pal," "Listen, sister," "Reach for the sky," and all that were perfectly fine.
What wasn't so fine was the use of "Japs" and "The Japanese," and the stereotypical speech...
It made me wince and I couldn't stop seeing it.
The books are still pretty fabul0us for a teenybopper, but those readers will need an Urban Dictionary from 1940 and a crash course in our historic faux pas as a people.
They did a great job of keeping to Julie Campbell’s style, as there wasn’t much discernible in style difference, which was good.I thought the antiques show storyline was good, and I enjoyed how Trixie used the secret code to help save herself.
I thought the whole secret code / jewel part of the story was a throwback to the very first book as well.Interesting attempt to integrate the Japanese characters, but it did add something cultural and a bit different to it all.Oh, what I didn’t like about this was the whole ridiculous idea that the school could expel the kids for being part of a club, but perhaps that is one of those generation-gap things that I just don’t understand.
It sparkles with delicate, vivacious prose, and there’s a strong moral sensibility to the plot – Trixie and her friends are raising money for UNICEF.
There is peril and urgency when the group gets stranded in a snowstorm, while the character of old Brom brings an almost mythological presence to the story, as when he tells little Bobby about a witch in the Catskills: “I’ve seen her right there on top of her mountain spinning clouds and flinging them to the four winds.” And Trixie really shines in this story, proving to be sweet, brave, clever, and just generally awesome.
Go Trixie!http://pixie-sleuth.blogspot.com/
I do not remember the year I first read this. I DID enjoy it though. I am currently re-reading it and will review it below. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RE-READ~November 13, 2013This is one of my more favorite of the series. You get introduced to a couple more peripheral characters and they are so enjoyable! Really good read and fun. And you can see just how much GOOD Trixie and her gang do whilst solving mysteries and running around! :-)
While gathering items for the upcoming antique show, Trixie and her friends stagger upon an old code on a slip of paper that's attached to a key. What Trixie doesn't know is that the coded puzzle is going to land her right in a huge heap of trouble. In addition to all this, the school board doesn't want the B.W.G.'s to stay together as a club--but that can't stop Trixie and her friends from doing what they love.Can Trixie solve all their problems?This was a great read--Really interesting!
Trixie Belden and the Happy Valley Mystery is book number nine in the Trixie Belden mystery series.
Trixie Belden and Honey Wheeler are best friends, horse lovers, and detectives who always seem to accidentally find a mystery waiting to be solved.
In this book, the pair's club is in danger of quitting.
The members of the club host an antique show and auction to raise money but the night before the show, thieves come and the antiques-and Trixie- are in danger.
I love the Trixie Belden Mystery Series because it combines two of my favorite things - - horses and mystery!
I found this book in an antique mall.
I read the Trixie Belden series when I was a preteen.
My best friend's Mom used to walk her dogs around the Langstaff jail land and my best friend and I would pretend we were Trixie (me) and Honey (Deb).
I loved these books when I was young so decided to read one to see what they were really like.
and a few words like "gleepers", instead of jeepers, made me laugh.
I can see why I enjoyed these so much when I was young.
In this book, after the principal at Trixie's school saw the BWG's sweaters, he told them they may need to disband. So they didn't have to disband, they started an antique show. Most clubs had to disband because of the robberies going on at the school. During preparations for the show, a lot of stealing went on. on the night before the show, Trixie gets into trouble! I learned that you have to pay attention to what is around you and what people are saying so you can help them. Auryn, 12 years old, 2016
After being told by the school that groups not approved by the school could be shut down, the BWotG put together an antique show to benefit UNICEF. (That scenario makes my Concervative, Libertarian-leaning soul HURT.) First, there's an actual mystery in this book so that's nice. Also, we get to see the deep bond that the Beldens have and it makes me smile.Recommended 10+ for scary situations and possible teen romances starting.
The transition book from Julie Campbell to the first of the ghost writers. Trixie and the Bob-Whites put on an antique show for charity, but is someone out to steal the really valuable antiques? Some good action and mystery, but also some back story issues.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
great book loved the way it was written. HAven't read this in a long time but found myself loving it as much as i used to.
