https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51291.How_to_Lie_with_Statistics
Lies, Damn Lies, and Statistics: The Pirates of the Powerpoint Darrell Huff uses a simple, but effective literary device to impress his readers about how much statistics affect their daily lives and their understanding of the world. He does this by pretending that the book is a sort of primer in ways to use statistics to deceive, like a manual for swindlers, or better, for pirates. He then pretends to justify the crookedness of the book in the manner of the retired burglar whose published remin
Asking such questions require the readers to be aware of the tendency of stats to mislead and to not be dazzled by the numbers.
But as its popularity attests to, it seems to be an important book for the lay reader, just by serving a reminder that the pirates are still out there — wielding their charts.
It's clear, concise, funny, not too complex, and above all important for anyone who wants to understand politics, economics, science, or life in general.
Being informed necessitates understanding and being skeptical of statistics.Yes, the book is a bit dated, but it didn't bother me in the least.
The lessons in this book are timeless.Also, if you do want to learn how to overstate your case or misrepresent something, this book can help.
It's really written to arm people with the right questions and a healthy dose of skepticism, but inevitably ends up helping the scammers as well.
Choose a base year that skews things the way you want.
Our cynicism has evolved to the point where How to Lie With Statistics teaches valuable technique, but loses much of its insight-producing novelty.You should still read it, though, for two reasons: - It's a classic.
It's a great, simple read and you want to be able to say, "As it says in so classic and simple a book as How to Lie With Statistics--which, Professor, you have obviously studied--you are clearly hiding the truth!" - No other book presents such a concise set of instructions for noticing when you have misled someone inadvertently.
Written with a smile, easily understandable, yet with a fine sense of how statistics can be used against us even, allegedly, "for our own good." Every American should have a copy of HOW TO LIE WITH STATISTICS.
After this book, if you'd like to get further into the nitty-gritty of numerical manipulation, how ordinary Americans are routinely deceived by it, and what you can do about it, consider INNUMERACY by John Allen Paulos.
However, there are recent events that can be related to some of the examples author Darrell Huff provides, and helps to increase the book's value.For those who have fleetingly or never studied statistics, this is a good place to start.
Personally, I have studied statistics (use and misuse) in various jobs, and have seen the positive as well as the detrimental aspects.
Even with my background, I still found items of interest and was able to correlate some of Mr. Huff's thoughts to present day use.The author's final chapter goes further than the explanations of the previous pages and outlines what the average person can do to avoid being fooled by deceptive statistics.
The entire book is fun to read and informative.
It seems a little shallow to rate this semi-pamphlet at four stars, as one of the must-read books, but that's exactly what I'm going to do.This book earns four stars from me simply from its concisiveness and practicality.
You will sit down with this book for an hour or two and get up from your chair having a much more educated mind about the numbers that are constantly hurled at you.
In my mind, the perfect library has a hundred thousand of these types of book.
كان بديعا !.تعلمت أيضا أن هذه المفاهيم الثلاثة قد تجتمع معا في الرسم الإحصائي حين يكون الرسم على شكل جرس ، و بالتالي استخدام أي منها سيكون ممثلا مناسبا عن المادة الإحصائية .
هو معدل نسبي لنسبة الخطأ في الإحصاء الذي نقدمه ، بمعنى لنفرض أن إحصائياتي تتحدث عن عدد المرات التي يبكي بها عشر أطفال في الساعة على مدار اليوم .
3 هو الـ probable error .و في آخر فصل ، زود القارئ بعدد من الأسئلة التي يحتاج أن يسألها ليعرف مصداقية الإحصائيات المقدمة .
Το κάνει αυτό χρησιμοποιώντας πραγματικά περιστατικά παραπλάνησης του κοινού μέσω της στατιστικής, από άρθρα σε εφημερίδες και περιοδικά, μέχρι από έρευνες κυβερνητικών υπηρεσιών και ιδιωτικών επιχειρήσεων.Όσον αφορά την όλη παρουσίαση, μου φάνηκε ιδιαίτερα προσιτή και κατανοητή.
Διαβάζοντας με προσοχή αυτό το βιβλίο, ο αναγνώστης ίσως θα μπορεί να είναι σε θέση να βλέπει πίσω από τα διαγράμματα και τις στατιστικές μελέτες και έρευνες, να καταλαβαίνει πότε κάποιος του λέει ψέματα ή μισές αλήθειες, χρησιμοποιώντας στατιστικά δεδομένα.
Ειδικά στην εποχή που ζούμε, κάτι τέτοιο είναι σίγουρα πολύ σημαντικό και ουσιώδες.Φυσικά πρόκειται για ένα βιβλίο που πρέπει να ανατρέχει κανείς ξανά και ξανά, έτσι ώστε να εμπεδώσει πλήρως τους τρόπους εξαπάτησης και παραπλάνησης μέσω της στατιστικής.
A really fast read.
So now I want to read another book discussing the same subject :3 These days, every claim is accompanied by stats to validate them.
And when contradicting claims both have supporting studies behind them, you really have to stop and ask yourself what the fuck is going on.
This is where this book comes to the rescue.
But they do a lot of manipulation to bend the truth the way they want.
So it's up for the reader to know how to bust them in the act, if we ever really wanted to make informed actions.
Written over 60 years ago, this is still a highly relevant book that exposes the many flaws in statistics and how easy it is to manipulate findings. A short book that everyone should read.
I didn’t realize at first that this book was written in 1954. It’s still relevant today; math and people don’t change. It’s written in a fun, conversational style with lots of concrete examples that make the topics easy to understand. Even if you’ve already studied statistics, it’s a good refresher to see how they’re used in everyday media.
In class 5 or 6, when we first started doing maths of finding average, mean or mode, I really had no idea what they meant or even why I was doing them.
Later when we learnt regression analysis, even then I still didn't know why I am learning this.
I saw teacher writing some x & y values on the board , then their was an equation y=ax+b.
Later on if it was asked in the question, I would plug in a new value of x into the equation and get a new y.
I'm just going to quote the Amazon.com review:"There is terror in numbers," writes Darrell Huff in How to Lie with Statistics.
"The secret language of statistics, so appealing in a fact-minded culture, is employed to sensationalize, inflate, confuse, and oversimplify," warns Huff.Although many of the examples used in the book are charmingly dated, the cautions are timeless.
There always is.Read How to Lie with Statistics.
Don't be terrorized by numbers, Huff implores.
"The fact is that, despite its mathematical base, statistics is as much an art as it is a science." --Therese Littleton This is book aimed at the honest soul who is merely trying to make sense of the stream of numbers and stats pouring in from all around.
The book aims to equip reader to navigate through these numbers and percentage, to analyze and have a second thought before arriving in any conclusion, in order not to fall into the trap of the manipulation.
Huff explain the details on how statistics been wrongly used to win an argument, make a case and prove a theory.
These includes using a set of legitimate statistics but convey a different conclusion in disguised.The book is thin, light, short and straight to the point.
Overall it is easy to understand, but there are also some part of the book which I think can be written in a simpler way.
But without writers who use the words with honesty and understanding and readers who know what they mean, the result can only be semantic nonsense… This book is a sort of primer in ways to use statistics to deceive.
Perhaps I can justify it in the manner of the retired burglar whose published reminiscences amounted to a graduate course in how to pick a lock and muffle a footfall: The crooks already know these tricks; honest men must learn them in self-defense." (10-11)I never cared much for statistics; I slid through Methods & Statistics 1, 2, and 3 relatively untouched, until the first time I did my own research and had to analyze the data I had so diligently collected.
Duff does a good job of not only explaining what tricks people use on statistics to twist the facts, but he gives poignant examples that were just as relevant when he wrote this book as they are today.
It tells you how to pull the wool from your eyes and argue back against it by pointing out their chicanery.
When I read this I could easily pick out several examples of every single thing he talked about from my own environment.
This is a book that everyone should read so they are more well informed about the world around them and can pull the wool from their eyes.
Z. and my Statistical Foundations professor.
Really engaging and common-spoken, eager to make us adroit critical thinkers of statistical information.
Still, it has the fervor to educate us because, as H.G. Wells once prophesied, "Statistical thinking will one day be as necessary for efficient citizenship as the ability to read and write."That being the case, I'd love to require this book for my rhetoric class.
I'm supposed to be teaching critical thinking skills, right?
and I'm not sure that they'll all be taking a statistics class.
I feel like when I teach graphic design or computer research or even logic, I'm doing what the experts say I ought, but can I teach statistics, too?
It's such a broad subject that is used in so many fields-even forgetting all of the numbers we read in magazines.
This book specifically focuses on the facts and figures that we see everyday, pretty much everywhere.
I thought it was well written and extremely thorough, going from problems that happen during study collection, to the cherry picking and presentation of data itself.
Overall a great, short, and extremely easy to read book that presents a nice reminder to the darker side of stats.
This book was published in 1954, before Excel, and it hasn't been updated yet it's still being reissued. After reading this, I can only assume that B.E. (Before Excel) statistics were presented more often with illustrations rather than bar graphs and pie charts, which would just be weird now since it's so easy to prepare graphs in Excel. Or maybe the whole point of the book is that if you use illustrations you will be able to confuse your audience with more ease. Either way, I didn't really learn anything from this book.
An easy and quick read about how to protect yourself against misleading statistics and visualizations! Interesting if you regularly follow the use or make data visualizations yourself.
When Bill Gates recommends a book, one cannot help but check it out.
This is one of the most interesting and practical books I have read in a while.
The book asks questions of the numbers that are thrown in our face everyday.
I felt it has added another layer to my critical thinking skills and set myself apart from those who panic at daily news.
I look forward to reading this book in another 10 years time.

60+ years later and it's still one of the best out there to prove the basic point.
And yet, people are still falling for all the old tricks.
Amusing and informative read, plus it has fun relics of the 50s in spades, like mentioning that the cold isn't caused by a germ, but we don't know what it is (Rhinovirus was officially discovered 2 years after the publication of this).Really tho, my favourite thing about this book is that people today are arguing that media was some ideal thing in say, the 1950s -- and this book is, in part, a disproof of that.
I love the title. The content feels outdated. I think people lie with statistics much better today than when this was published. Yay, we're improving!
เลาถึงกลเมดทีมีคนใชตัวเลขทางสถิติมาหลอกเราไดอยางงายๆ ทังกลุมตัวอยางทีไมเปนกลาง การใชจุดทศนิยมเพิมความนาเชือถือ ใชคาเฉลียคนละชนิดกัน การสรุปแบบจับแพะชนแกะ กลโกงของการใช % ทีพบเหนไดแมกระทังนิตยสารทางการแพทย บทความวิชาการ หรือแมแตคำแถลงของผูนำประเทศบางคนทีใชผลโพลสำรวจ แมแตเลขเลกนอยกปันหัวคนไดThere are three kinds of lies: lies, damned lies, and statistics." (Benjamin Disraeli)
เล่าถึงกลเม็ดที่มีคนใช้ตัวเลขทางสถิติมาหลอกเราได้อย่างง่ายๆ ทั้งกลุ่มตัวอย่างที่ไม่เป็นกลาง การใช้จุดทศนิยมเพิ่มความน่าเชื่อถือ ใช้ค่าเฉลี่ยคนละชนิดกัน การสรุปแบบจับแพะชนแกะ กลโกงของการใช้ % ที่พบเห็นได้แม้กระทั่งนิตยสารทางการแพทย์ บทความวิชาการ หรือแม้แต่คำแถลงของผู้นำประเทศบางคนที่ใช้ผลโพลสำรวจ แม่แต่เลขเล็กน้อยก็ปั่นหัวคนได้There are three kinds of lies: lies, damned lies, and statistics." (Benjamin Disraeli)
First few chapters made sense. Post that, I started questioning my own reasons for picking this up in the first place. While it's a small book already, it's summary would have sufficed just as well.
Short-read but points out clearly with examples the numerous fallacies of statistical interpretation that one can easily be tricked into thinking.
I would recommend the last chapter of this book to everyone who has ever looked at a graph and deciphered something out of it. This book is going to brush up on your fundamental concepts in statistics in an engaging and enjoyable fashion. I thoroughly enjoyed my time reading it and I assume, so would anyone who wants to better their knowledge of statistical analysis. Cheers!
48.27% of all statistics are made up on the spot; just like this one!Numbers provide so much coherence and context to an argument or study that it has become next to impossible to extract any meaningful information out of one which lacks them.I, for one, love them, and use it to substantiate a point whenever I can.
It's the first step of any statistical exercise and it is right there that most polls go wrong.
It is also an easy read that can be easily finished in one day of concentrated effort.How often do you hear statistics bandied about in the media or used to try to prove some special-interest point?
until you look at just how those numbers were arrived at.This book isn't truly a guide on how to lie with statistics, but it is an excellent text that informs the reader both how others will lie to them using statistics and on how to interpret the validity of purported statistical data.
