https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/444313.Cart_and_Cwidder
I first read this series when I was 13 or 14 (which is the intended age group), and I remember being so swept up in these books, they remained in my “favorites of all-time” for many years afterward and began my lifelong love of epic, multi-volume fantasy.
Moril is an eleven-year-old musician and daydreamer who lives on the road and performs with his family all over the politically divided land of Dalemark.
When Moril unlocks its magical potential near the end of this adventure, the real story is just beginning.As the first entry in a four-part series, Cart and Cwidder does a very good job of setting up the overarching structure of the whole.
It doesn't feel quite like any other Diana Wynne Jones book I can think of: there's something rather serious about it, ultimately, where often her books seem to be rather frivolous.
(view spoiler)[Or at least, that's how I have to feel about half an army being buried under the hills which've been made to walk over them, in vengeance for the death of a horse.
(hide spoiler)]It's an interesting world, really, and something about it feels more three dimensional than some of Diana Wynne Jones' others.
It's just closer to what you'd expect from the fantasy genre at large than from Diana Wynne Jones.
When Moril's father Clennen takes a young passenger named Kialan, their lives take a different turn, and Moril discovers the truth about the old cwidder his father plays and that he's told Moril will be his someday.Family is at the heart of this story, and family is one of the things DWJ does best.
In Cart and Cwidder the parents are present, but not reliable, because they have their own lives; Clennen is absorbed in performances, and their mother Lenina (sorry, I keep having Brave New World flashbacks with that name) is cool, efficient, but distant.
I've been trying to read this quartet since I was gifted the books over a decade ago.
I still don't know why I never managed - especially after finally picking up this first book yesterday and realising that it is fantastic and not at all difficult.It's strangely sombre for a children's book, the world is a harsh place and the journey that the main characters go on is challenging in a way that quests rarely seem to be these days.
The consequences are as harsh as the world they belong to, and death - though shocking - is an easily accepted thing.
I love Ms. Jones with all of my heart, and that is why it pains me to admit that I didn't really enjoy these stories. There was no connection between the stories (although the first two novels are set during the same period, they concern two completely different cultures and geographic areas--the difference between A Horse and His Boy and Prince Caspian for instance), so there's really no point at having them all part of the same "quartet." Moreover, the stories just didn't grab me. I don't know why not, but these are probably her least-enjoyable works.
After hearing about the genius of Diana Wynne Jones more times than I can count, I have finally joined the ranks of her admirers. Jones truly knows her craft. I found many similarities between her writing and the writing of Megan Whalen Turner. Namely, amazing plot twists, nuanced characters, and a finished project worth reading over and over. I'm glad this is a series of four, because I am far from being done with her incredible universe.Update 1/16:Still good. Still good.
i love that it felt very small scale and intimate despite the larger scale issues that came into play, and how human the characters were (a favorite moment was when the older kids fa tried to stay up late to keep watch and then promptly fell asleep the next day and the younger kids just kind of rolled their eyes) and the different skills they brought to the table, and the way it felt so traditional and simple while having all kinds of fun trope subversions and surprises and depths.
DWJ doesn't sanitize her children's books.
(view spoiler)[The villain in this one, Thorian, kills Moril's father, the famous bard in the woods where no one will see him, instead of having a trial, precisely because he knows the bard was well loved, and would enjoy putting on that final performance.
Because people die (or are presumed dead) in both books, but I wasn't particularly upset.
But I suspect it's one of the reasons why I don't love some DWJ books as much as I love others.
Diana Wynne Jones is one of my favourite writers from my childhood and Cart & Cwidder is one of my favourite of her books, and so it was the one I chose to re-read for DWJ-month in the blogosphere – a global celebration of her books and writing. This is the story of a family of musical travellers in a world divided between North and South, and has DWJ’s trademark mix of the ordinary and the magical. A truly delightful children’s fantasy.
Man, was this ever dark and tense. I really liked it, though, and expect to enjoy the rest of the series! I enjoyed reading a DWJ novel with a slightly different worldbuilding style than her usual - vaguely like the Ingary books, but not quite.I liked how the storytelling and musical aesthetic was very Celtic, specifically Welsh (the "branches" of the Adon's tale was a fun allusion to the branches of the Mabinogi.)
Reread August 2018Read January 2014

Good. I like the Derkholm novels better.
DWJ is one of my favourite authors. Surprisingly, this is the first book of hers I've seen available on audiobook. While it was good, it wasn't great. (Guess she was saving her greatness for the Chrestomanci series.)**Interesting tidbit for you**On the audiobook the narrator says Diane Wynne Jones!
Moril has spent his whole life traveling and performing with his family from a horse-drawn cart, singing and playing the cwidder across the land.But when his father is murdered by a group of richly-dressed men, his mother immediately chooses to return to the stable, well-to-do suitor that she left for a musician years before.
Moril and his brother and sister, driven both by suspicions that their mother's new beau had something to do with the murder, and a lack of enthusiasm for a bourgeois lifestyle, take the cart and strike out on their own, agreeing to take the young man who had been their family's passenger to his destination in the North.More trouble awaits than they had bargained on however, as secrets regarding an underground political movement are revealed, and the children realize that their life was not all the happy-go-lucky glamour that it seemed.
Decided to start a reread of the series - Cart and Cwidder is a weird one for me because it's the first book in the series, and it's the beginning of so many characters (and not just Moril and Kialan.
But it's also one of the very few DWJ books where the world-building outweighs the plot.
Because the plot is so thin and the end is really rushed and it reads like she had other priorities.
I just love these characters and how they interact and everything about Moril and where he is at the start of the book vs.
Everything’s covered, but in a very shallow way.The plot headed in a great direction and I was enjoying it despite the pace.
The book, at 180-odd pages, is way too short.This may be an enjoyable read for a younger person dipping their imaginations into fantasy for the first time because, as I said, it is well written.
D:<I will be reading the next book, (in this four book series), and we’ll see if it’s worth continuing the series.To sum up, Good plot, Good characters, Way too short leaving you disappointed.Was it worth the read?
NoWould I read this Author again?
The cwidder of the title is a large stringed instrument that is never really described in much detail (I pictured a cross between a guitarrón and a lute); the family band plays harmonies with bass and treble cwidders for many of their songs.Up until I'd started this book, I'd been reading and enjoying Mary Doria Russell's The Sparrow, but once I started this, I couldn't stand to read The Sparrow any more until I'd finished Jones' book.
A re-post, now that Jones has died (March 26, 2011).
Thank you, Diana, for all these wonderful stories.
If you haven't read Diana, starting here would not lead you wrong.In a series of baronies controlled by tyrannical leaders, a group of traveling musicians drift from town to town doing plays, puppets, and songs.
Intriguing, a complete world filled with great characters and a wonderful look at our own world and ideas through fantasy.
the way all the best fantasy books do.
You. Read.
What makes Diana Wynne Jones so great?
She plants clue and connections throughout her plots, or often what characters are thinking or saying or feeling, that allows the reader to infer important aspects of the plot, or the setting, or the character's motivations.
To be completely blunt, and rather snobbish, she's not a writer for dumb readers.
That makes her book that most wonderful and glorious of things, immanently re-readable.
Every time you re-read a Jones book, you get something new (and perhaps strange) out of it.
And the feeling that you are very smart, although never quite as smart as Diana Wynne Jones.
A family of musicians traveling on the somewhat oppressive and repressed south of Dalemark perform in towns and villages, passing messages and news as they go. An unwelcome passenger creates tensions and problems, and when tragedy strikes, everything seems to fall apart. Wynne Jones expertly crafts an other-world fantasy around family and music and a fight for freedom.
39th book read in 2013. Number 282 out of 329 on my all time book list.Follow the link below to see my video review:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QY628P...
It's been quite a while since I read this, but it seems as good a place as any to say that I consistently enjoy Diana Wynne Jones' books. I can't remember one I didn't like.
Needless to say, it didn't take me long to guess that this was a series aimed at older readers than Chrestomanci was.I did like the darkeness - the very serious feeling of danger that this story brough with it, making it clear that the important characters weren't safe.
I admire Diana Wynne Jones for her talent to make young characters /young/; to have them have motives, ideas, fears and reasonings that make sense for someone of their age.
I also really, really disliked the way he read young girls' voice - it felt stereotypical, the whine in it, and I feel like this character in all her flaws could have been brought to better justice with more tones in her voice.
Dot point review:- This book starts off slow, although I found the slow sketching of the family dynamics interesting enough, then something happens and the rest of the story becomes a tense story of trying to survive.- There's a recurring theme in these books of young children forced to rely on themselves to navigate a politically tense world.- This was actually a much more brutal book than I was expecting.
Revolutions against oppression are messy and personal, especially for children caught up in them - a theme much more developed in the second book.
FANTASY, PECHA KUCHAAnother Jones's book in which I personally connected to the main character, Moril, due to his tendency to day dream.
However, Moril's fantasies come crashing down with the death of his father and the ensuing civil war that follows.
I've said this many times before, Jones does a brilliant job of creating a unique world filled with flawed characters that you both love and want to throttle.
Something I appreciated especially with this book is Moril's journey of self-dependency.
The book may not end on a particularly happy note, but there is a hopeful element to be continued in the following books of the series.
Cart and Cwidder is my least favourite work from Diana Wynne Jones.
This book was something like a melodramatic family drama with war and....
a Cwidder.
Sounds a bit like something of Game of Thrones?
In this story I didn't feel any connection towards any of the characters and only finished it because i NEEDED to know what happens at the end and If the children will make it through the South Dales and into the North.
The story gets 2.5 stars from me because I don't want to be unfair to Diana's writing and crafting

has similarities to name of the wind. enough to make me wonder if patrick rothfuss took inspiration from this book, or if a traveling cart comprised of singer-performers with comparable defining qualities and character journeys as Rothfuss' gypsies is a trope of medieval fantasy books. would probably interest readers waiting for closure of the kingkiller chronicle series. this is definitely written within the style and genre of children's books though-- which doesn't mean it was designed or intended for a children's audience, just that it bears the writing marks of its genre.
I love Diana Wynne Jones' work, but the pacing of this was not my favorite. I felt like the story had just begun when Moril got his powers and then it ended as he was starting another journey. It just felt incomplete. I know that this is part of a quartet, however, the next story starts off with completely different characters.
