https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/820517.Joey_Pigza_Swallowed_the_Key
When Joey has one accident too many, he has to work with his teachers, his mom, and himself to learn to make better decisions.Response: I loved this book.
Despite the fact that I could feel how much everyone cared for him, it wasn't working to give him reminders - he could not do it.Joey not only has a disability, but he has his own preconceived notions of what other "special education" kids might be like.
Jack Gantos not only gives insight into how Joey feels inside, but how he regards other kids from the outside.
The book is filled with negative stereotypes about the disabled and so many examples of bad teaching that I cannot believe this is being used in a school environment.The main character is a little boy with ADHD and possible fetal alcohol syndrome who is misbehaving at school.
When he is in the classroom, his behavior is out of control so he is sent out into the hallway with no supervision.
The special education students are all segregated in the basement and the severely affected children are sent to a downtown facility.
The main character is routinely threatened with being sent to the basement or downtown.
It is also very well written.Dislikes: This book is copyrighted 1998, but I had to look twice just to be sure that it didn't say 1968 or 1978.
The portrayal of the Special Education classroom as one that is totally segregated and in the basement is so antiquated as to be a lie.
Joey himself says that he spends very little time in the classroom.
Joey is told to "be good." Although I am sure that ADHD kids had these school experiences in the past, this book is not written as an historical fiction novel.
I am trying to decide if I want to keep this book in my classroom.
There are so few books that feature kids with ADHD that it is hard to find a kindred spirit.
He felt Joey would become the "poster child" for kids with ADHD and everyone would assume his actions are the standard.
His bottom line was that Joey was such an extreme example of all the bad parts associated with ADHD that non-impacted people would assume everyone with the disability behaves this way.
He said it's hard enough having ADHD, having people assume you are stupid or slow because they see impulsivity or disorganization, without Joey proving the point.
Left to be raised by a well-intentioned but emotionally abusive grandmother, who shares symptoms of ADHD, Joey is made to feel responsible for his mom's abandonment and his bad behavior.
His new school, "Lancaster County Special Education Center", finally addresses his academic, physical, social, emotional, and family issues.I did not find this book humorous, but rather an important cry for help for those children with ADHD.
I have worked with students with this disability who shared many similar problems with their medication, family life, and teachers who were unable to handle their behavior issues.
Joey Pigza offers a glimpse into what life is like from a child's perspective.
Joey is dealing with not only his ADHD but the way others react to it.
The things that happen are told in a hilarious way despite the fact they are quite serious so you end up with a mix of emotions.
Probably my favourite thing about the book was the way the sentence structure reflected the hyperactivity with long run-on sentences being used.
For children this book probably gives a great view of special needs that children might not otherwise understand.
As an adult it brings up all sorts of questions about how children with ADHD and other special needs should be treated, brought up and educated.
I don't think this book has fairly depicted the trials and tribulations of a student like Joey.
In the story, if Joey didn't behave, he will be sent to the spec ed class.
I don't think that is fair to students who are in these classes.
Joey was abandoned as a child and had an alcoholic mother who was trying to turn herself around.
I think it is a judgment for poor, working parents.
This may be threading in some deeper water, but I just don't want students like Joey to think that ADHD is equal to medication.
I find this book abhorrent to children and families of children who have ADHD! That any school would put this on their required reading list as representative of what a "typical" child with ADHD is like is bothersome. Not ALL children with ADHD are destructive to themselves or others, nor do they require medication to "fix" them!
This, and the pervasive discomfort and apologizing a parent of a behaviorally-challenged kid experiences around parents of his peers, hit home like a hammer.The trips through Joey's head, and seeing his continual accidents from his innocent eyes, was also illuminating and heartening.
Sure, there was some redemption in the book (she comes back to him, she loved him enough to kick the bottle, sorta, she goes to work every day to provide for him, she makes some good decisions and has some remorse for the entirety of her parental role) but I was deeply disappointed that the author subtly suggested Joey's ADHD was the result of her drinking during pregnancy.
This book is about a boy named Joey who has some tough times when it comes to certain things and paying attention.
This book shows the perspective of different people in Joey’s life and what they think of him.I think this story is very well written.
This book shows a lot of difficulty that child faces and how they view things.
I am certain that the characters in this book resemble real people in our world today.
Things the author pointed out that happened within Joey and with other characters are basically what a child with ADHD does go through.
Joey cannot control himself in a regular classrooom and is sent to spend time in a Special Education classroom.
When Joey gets back to school after the trip he is working on a project to change the world inspired by ab assembly he snuck into.
school and there learns to make friends and gets control of his behavior with help from his teacher, mother and doctor.
If gave a view me such an amazing view of what it would be like to step into the shoes of a student who wanted so much to be good, but just couldn't help himself.
This book was about a young boy named Joey and he has trouble paying attentition in school and needs help because, his parents ran way when he was very young.
Many people don’t think this book was a very good book because they thought Joey was a bad influennece for their kids.
I thought this was a good book because; im going to need as much backgound on students with special needs because; I want to be a special ed.
Besides the entertainment I would have to say Gantos wrote this book because; he wanted to teach other kids not to swallow a key or anything unlike he did, because he got into trouble.
Joey's mom finally sobers up enough (although doesn't stop drinking completely) to come back for Joey and care for him.
Joey is not a bad kid, the decisions he makes are bad.
Mrs. Maxy, his teacher, spends much of the class's school day trying to reel Joey in.
He is examined, tested, and put into the care of doctors and teachers who try desperately to figure out what makes Joey tick.
There is hope for Joey, as there is hope for all kids with any kind of disability.
It just takes caring parents, teachers, doctors, and caregivers to figure out what is best.
(There are also a couple of sentences devoted to his mother drinking too much, including when she was pregnant, but none of that is gone into in any depth.) The child does NOT have ADHD, the child has a serious mental disorder, and that distinction is never made.
You can't hate the Joey Pigza character because he is mentally ill and unable to control himself but it would be nice if the author had had a clue what he was writing.
Before handing it over to my 3rd grader (with ADHD) I decided I should read it first, and I'm glad I did.The story is told from Joey's perspective, which was definitely interesting.
I did enjoy the insight into Joey's thoughts.As a special educator, I was extremely disappointed with the references to special education in this story.
I don't even think there was a reference to an IEP and Joey definitely wasn't presented with any specific goals to work on.
So many students experience frustration with lessons to help with behavior and I think it would have been interesting to read Joey's perspective on this.
Lately, his attention disorder has been manifesting in ways where people get hurt and Joey must now go to a special school to figure out how he can improve.
Joey must learn to change his behaviors, accept his home life, and he must also become accustomed to new medication.I really didn't like this book.
No one takes the time to explain to Joey that he isn't being punished, so he thinks that he's a bad kid that needs to be sent away.
Either way, the professionals in his life should have explained things to him and the absence of that conversation still bothers me.
I thought this book was a little insensitive and irreverent towards kids with ADHD.
I'm not sure if this is what the book's point was, but it seemed to me to suggest that ADHD kids were simply problem children who need to go to special schools and take Ritalin to be socially acceptable.
Don't get me wrong, special ed schools and Ritalin are good things, its just that the 'conform or be ostracized' mentality is not.
(I could be wrong though, I never finished the book...)However, it would seem to make a good primer for what new grade school teachers might need to watch for.
While the city of Pittsburgh has an important role in JPSTK, this story essentially takes place in Joey’s school, where he is viewed as dangerous to his classmates because of his roller-coaster behavior, and his home, which we find out is far more unstable than we could imagine at the beginning of this story, when his struggling grandmother is taking care of the boy, who has been abandoned by father and mother.
This point is especially important when considering how Gantos depicts the unpredictability of not only Joey but his ADHD, thus providing the reader with an incredible perspective on what it’s like to struggle with this disorder, whether dealing with it in the shoes of the child, teacher, parent, behavioral social worker, etc.
I understand that the use of medication is often a blessing to those who interact with these children on a daily basis, but I fear sometimes that it is too often the first path that is taken instead of the last.
Enough of my soapbox...The story itself is very engaging and I couldn't help but wonder what more could be done to help Joey channel his energy, enthusiasm, and creativity in a useful or helpful way.
Mr. Gantos narrates the story very well and I wondered if he had experience with ADHD himself, but I learned that the inspiration for the book came from a student he observed.
While it is easy to feel frustrated reading about how his teacher, principal, and classmates have to deal with his impulsivity, I couldn't help but feel compassion for Joey.
His life at home is very chaotic and definitely contributed to his many issues.Jack Gantos did a great job showing readers Joey's mind to help them connect with him.
We've all had experiences with kids like Joey, but for readers who want to understand their struggles, Joey Pigza Swallowed the Key would be a great read.
Joey Pigza is a quirky boy with ADHD and causes all sort of ruckus in the classroom without even trying.
As a fellow person who grew up with ADHD, this book really spoke to me.
The mind is a wondrous organ and his ADHD gets the best of him sometimes.
Joey sees himself as a normal child, with a bit more energy than most.
This book is a gem and seeing life through the eyes of someone with ADHD is truly eye-opening.
Through reading, I could feel Joey's frustration with just trying to get through a single day of being good.
joey pigza has non self control like when he swallowed the key to his home the sad thing is he has no control
Joey made me laugh and cry. Loved this wonderful story!
Throughout the story the reader sees different perspectives of Joey and people in his life describe the way they see him.
Joey is a young boy who is struggling with ADHD and faces challenges daily on trying to have good behavior and follow the rules in the classroom.
Joey had faced some problems in his home life with parents and I am positive many children can relate to that as well.
At times my heart ached for Joey; he is just a young boy and has already been faced with so much in life.
Joey Pigza Swallowed the Key by Jack Gantos.
Now that we have more and more students with special needs attending regular education classes (NCLB), I highly recommend this book for all regular education teachers.
Gantos tells the story of a young boy named Joey suffering through his elementary school years; Poor Joey is constantly tossed around, first by his parents, then his grandma, and then different teachers in the school system.
I highly recommend it for all teachers looking for greater insight into children’s behavior.
The characters in the book are well written, especially Joey and his mom, who also struggles with getting better and staying focused.
It didn’t work, and Joey’s father is still on the loose – somewhere!
There are some really poignant moments with Joey and his mom, who he didn’t recognize when she finally came home.
Joey gets lots of hugs from teachers and nurses, and as Mrs. Howard, the school’s special ed teacher says, “We all need a second chance.” This would be a great book for boys and especially boys afflected with behavioral issues like Joey.
Eventually, Joey gets the necessary medical and behavioral interventions necessary to help him control his behavior and move forward with his life.In reading this story, I had hoped to gain new insights into how a person with ADHD felt and to better understand the challenges they might face in their daily life.
I wondered if a student who read this would make an assumption that people with ADHD, also have dysfunctional families.
Another concern I had was that students might view a person with ADHD as a danger.
However, I would want to address the fact that Joey had some home problems, which were separate for his ADHD.
Joey is a young boy whose father and mother have both run off and he is living with his very eccentric grandmother.
He describes himself as being "wired bad." While reading this story, I thought of the students in my class that remind me of Joey.
As a teacher with ADD and a family full of fellow "ADDers," I am able to look at my students in a different light and work with them so that they are able to stop and "take the time to think," (The 5 T's) before they act!
I think that all of the students in my class would love this book.
In fact, the perspective is so effective that at times I was getting antsy reading the book, like I was channeling Joey.
By creating Joey as someone who can "tell it like it is," we get a straight-forward description of his troubles without getting overwhelmed by them.
We've all known kids like Joey in our classrooms--a common comment at conferences is bound to be "He's such a good kid inside!" And through this book, we live Joey's life, we see he's a good kid inside (and funny!), and we just can't wait to see him get some help.
Seeing life through Joey's eyes would help students develop some compassion for their classmates who might be "wired."
After cutting a girl's nose off, Joey is sent to a special education school and given different medications until, finally, he calms down and is able to settle himself enough to go back to his old school.This book expands awareness by letting readers into the mind of a student with ADHD, letting them see how difficult it is to pay attention and how it isn't something terrible.
It gives them an opportunity to really see what it's like for a student like Joey, and provides a funny and enjoyable read in the meantime.
