https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125542.Stay_Out_of_the_Basement
Margaret's father may be a botanist, but what he's doing in the basement suggests he may be a mad scientist.
These topics are explored in simpler terms, but they're nonetheless present: "That's what a lot of botanists do with plants.
They try to take the fruit-bearing building blocks from one plant and put it into another.
Create a new plant that will bear five times as much fruit, or five times as much grain, or vegetables." The relationship between Margaret and her little brother are on par for most siblings, and the story builds to a twist that seems predictable as an adult but was mind-blowing as a child.
This was a jittery one.Even for the brave hearted.Two common children, siblings, are happy that their dad is doing plant research in their basement.The research is all harmless, says the blurb.
Nothing to worry about.Believe me that's a white lie.Whatever happens you should not go venturing into the basement.
There's where strange things reside.The curiosities of the children gets peeked up on seeing their dad exhibit traits of plants.
Or find out for the last time.Grippy, twist and turns like a slytherin snake.Stay Out of The Basement is not the typical Goosebumps.
#2 "Something's waiting in the dark...."Margaret and Casey continue to worry about their father and his strange experiments on Plants he's doing in the basement. They are just harmless experiments... Right? Very unique concept.
Νομίζω βρήκα τη νέα μου μανία!!! (πραγματικά δεν θυμάμαι τίποτα από αυτά τα βιβλία όταν τα είχα διαβάσει παιδί - θα τα έχεις διαβάσει και θα είναι σαν να μην τα έχεις διαβάσει φάση)Απολαυστική περιπέτεια, με κάποια παράξενα σαρκοφάγα φυτά στο υπόγειο και έναν πατέρα τρελό επιστήμονα!
The kids snoop around to see what dad's working on, and they find creepy plants in a equatorially hot basement (again: paying for this excess summer heating how?) and things get weirder from there - but in a pretty predictable way.
However - this really reminded me of a Island of Dr. Moreau or Frankenstein kind of story, where some crazy guy who has just a bit too much scientific understanding and time, and not quite enough forethought or ethics, gets it into his head to play God and create a new species that was never intended to exist.
کتاب «به زیرزمین نزدیک نشو» نوشتهی «آر.ال. استاین» و ترجمهی «شهره نورصالحی» است. این اثر جزو مجموعهی «ترسولرز» محسوب میشود. استاین نوشتن مجموعهی ترسولرز را در سال 1992 با کتاب «خانهی مرگ» آغاز کرد. این مجموعه حدودا شامل 100 عنوان کتاب است که تاکنون بیش از 220 میلیون نسخه از آنها در آمریکا به فروش رسیده و به 32 زبان زنده دنیا ترجمه شدهاند. از میان کتابهای مجموعه، خود نویسنده «حبابی که همه را خورد» و «به زیرزمین نزدیک نشو» را بیشتر از بقیه میپسندد.
کتاب «به زیرزمین نزدیک نشو» نوشته‌ی «آر.ال. استاین» و ترجمه‌ی «شهره نورصالحی» است. این اثر جزو مجموعه‌ی «ترس‌ولرز» محسوب می‌شود. استاین نوشتن مجموعه‌ی ترس‌ولرز را در سال 1992 با کتاب «خانه‌ی مرگ» آغاز کرد. این مجموعه حدودا شامل 100 عنوان کتاب است که تاکنون بیش از 220 میلیون نسخه از آن‌ها در آمریکا به فروش رسیده و به 32 زبان زنده دنیا ترجمه‌ شده‌اند. از میان کتاب‌های مجموعه، خود نویسنده «حبابی که همه را خورد» و «به زیرزمین نزدیک نشو» را بیشتر از بقیه می‌پسندد.
Anyway she makes Casey, her brother, a sandwich at one point that just seemed out of place."I'm home," he said, grinning at her.
Like Casey," Dr. Brewer said agreeably.Casey blindly believes everything their dad says even as he's acting very weird and stuff isn't right, which granted makes sense because kids tend to believe their parents and all that.
But she thought about it all, trying to make sense of it and figure out what was going on.Ok maybe at that brain part I was already annoyed with Casey.Later, due to all the weirdness, they both end up awake half the night.No, she decided.
It took forever for the kids to open that closet (don't go in the basement, they go in the basement, don't go in the basement, they go in the basement, two more times until fiiinaallllyyyy they get to the closet) but otherwise I liked it well enough.
4 starsWhen Goosebumps came out, I was in my later teenage years and was reading King and Koontz and Agatha Christie...so,...
deep down inside, I've always been jealous of the kids that grew up with Goosebumps books and have always wanted to try them!
I would have loved these and read every single one if I had of been a kid when they came out.This is book #2 in the first series.
While I wish I had of read book #1, it isn't necessary, story-wise.
My son loves these books and I can see why!
Update 9/3/18! Here's my full review: http://www.bookishrealmreviews.com/20...3.5 stars (I read this for Booktubeathon 2018) This was one of the more creepy books in the series for me because it literally made my skin crawl haha. I was not expecting to be so grossed out by the plot, but the idea of a human turning into a plant really really threw me for a loop. I listened to this on audiobook and rather enjoyed the narrator. If you haven't picked up the Goosebumps series I would definitely recommend it. I'll be doing a full review soon.
moral:stay out of the basement
Things that make you question if your loved one is even really the person they seem to be.Margaret Brewer and her younger brother Casey live in sunny California.
Margaret begins to have her suspicions....I liked this book a lot better than WELCOME TO DEAD HOUSE.
Margaret discovering that the reason her dad started wearing a baseball cap all the time is because all his hair has been replaced by leaves.
Of course, Stine is writing books which have protagonists who are too young to have discovered the opposite sex, and I think this makes it easier.
Some of the themes/issues include: man vs nature, grief over familial illness, work/life balance (we TOTALLY get that in the Atlanta metro area), and so on.This book is a nice blend of science and horror that our future biologists, botanists, and chemists of the world will definitely appreciate.As the father begins changing in physical form, behavior, and attitude, Margaret and Casey start questioning his identity.
Is it really their dad who has been locked in the basement for days on end working on his scientific experiments on plants?
In the end, it almost makes me question how well do we know the people we love and see every day?
I loved this one.Although, these cliffhanger endings are really frustrating, seeing as most of the books in this series are standalone, and I want to know what happens next, Damn you!
Introducing my daughter to the wonderful world of horror. She loved it. l have always wanted to read these books. Now I have perfect excuse. Great fun.
My thinking is the books theme is that never listen too your dad if he has leaves sprouting of his scalp.The book starts with DR Brewer (he is scientist who research on plants) shifts his experiments into the basement because he gets fired from his job.
The other character was Diane (Casey and Margaret’s friend), Mrs. Brewer (Dr Brewer’s wife and Casey and Margaret’s Mom) and Mr. Martinez his dad’s old boss.This book is like really interesting and entertaining everything about this book rocks but its way much better than Goosebumps the girl who cried monster that book was really boring.
Stine has crafted another interesting storyline that keeps this moving along like a B grade 80s horror film.
The characters have strong arcs and its great to see they have most of the focus, I think this why the Goosebumps book survived for so long.
The central concept is quite like a tv serial, monster of the week but who cares when you are provided with some quick twists and turns.
The book never ends like one would suspect and I've started to guess the ending within the first few chapters.
The fear in a bungee jump, say, is almost devoid of danger, that's why it's a pastime.
There's a vivid sense of life likeness about any story that features brothers and sisters.
Since I don't live in the US, and since children's tv shows aren't lifelike, books like this really make the American family come to being.
Both first books of the Goosebumps series have kids playing.
I liked how the kids(sometimes Diane included) break the rules.
When a kid breaks a small petty rule compared to what is going on with the parents then the reader will always side with the child.
Another five star read from R.L.Stine. "Goosebumps" is great, like short, sweet creepypastas, who can also be funny, but still disturbing. (view spoiler)[Here a girl witnessed her father eating food for plants, a boy was grabbed by animal plants and they both so human tomatoes (hide spoiler)] - it sounds absurd, but eerie as well. Loved it.Review in Bulgarian here:http://citadelata.com/%D1%81%D1%82%D0...
La verdad es que el libro es un pelín «rarito». No me ha defraudado, porque empecé a leerlo ya que era el próximo que tocaba para seguir el orden de la colección, pero no tenía pinta de que fuera a gustarme tanto como los anteriores. Sobre todo algunos. No está mal, pero de no ser que estés siguiendo la colección por orden como yo, te aconsejo que pases a otro número porque lo encuentro demasiado infantil. Y por supuesto: nada de miedo en ningún momento; ni similar.
I really loved the twist at the end. This wasn't as well written as the first book, but it was still enjoyable.
3,5 más bien. Me ha gustado, y sé que de pequeño me hubiera encantado, pero no ha sido de mis favoritos de la serie. Aun así, está bastante bien de todos modos.
Nothing could be more attractive than daddy's deep dirty secrets down in the basement.
Muy divertido y ameno. La fama de este escritor y esta saga de libros es merecida. Por cierto, la trama principal y el giro final es un claro guiño (plagio) a la peli La Mosca versión de Vincent Price, la de 1958.
Casey and Margaret's father, Dr. Brewer, has been spending an unusual amount of time down in the family's basement, working on his experiments with plants.
One day the two siblings sneak down to the basement when their parents are away and discover their father isn't working with ordinary plants....they seem to be alive.
It wasn't until this reread that I was able to appreciate the way Stine created this man, a recently-fired professor, father, and mad scientist, and his downward spiral into obsession with what he calls "something the world has never seen." He is trying to create a plant-animal hybrid, and that's all he cares about.
I mean, I'm sure that my parents and grandparents read me stories as a yute, but the Goosebumps series is one I can remember choosing to read; this nuance is important.My copy of Stay Out of the Basement is with the original cover, a green very detailed hand coming out of the basement.
This is the original edition from 1992, from when I was 10 years old.
I mean, for youngsters, the book is well written, Stine does well to consider spacial needs of the reader (the scenes are well built and the environment is always considered), and the tension at the end of each chapter is legit.I remember being young, finishing a Goosebumps book, and waiting impatiently for a week for the next to come out.
Goosebumps: stay out of the basement is a great book.
This book is about two kids and their crazy father.The kids are named Casey and Margaret.
The kids suspect it has something to do with him workng down in their basement.
Casey and Margarets father is working with plants and machines down in the basement doing different kinds of weird experiments.
Casey and Margaret get more and more suspicious.
The kids plan to sneak into the basement to see what their father has been working on, or to see whats down there.
Casey and Margarets father turns into a half-human, half-plant creature.
Casey and Margaret are terrified.
Where that book was written in classic ghost story style, Stay Out of the Basement was much more modern.
Stine obviously uses this technique purposely.
My eldest daughter demanded that I finish the book ("We're almost to the end!
We have time!") after I had read the ending and closed the book.Throughout the time that we were reading this book, I woke up to my daughter standing beside my bed complaining of nightmares with people who had green, glowing eyes.
I believe these bad dreams were a result of Stay Out of the Basement's plant people.
One point for Stine.
Another amazing read in the Goosebumps series.
This book was actually scary.
In a way, scarier than an adult book would be because it is told in the point of view of a young child & her little brother, whose mom has to go to Arizona to be with her sick sister and leaves the kids alone with their insane father who spends literally ALL his time locked in the basement conducting twisted experiments involving plants.
I don't know if I was spooked reading these as a kid, but I certainly am now!
Super fun and quick read:) Can't wait for the rest of the series!
Like a monster in the basement killing all visitors or something, but it turned out alright.One thing I realized after reading this book, was that I never knew how much third person annoys me.
Margeret is the main character and everything is seen through her eyes, but told in third person Too many "she thought this, she thought that." I'm a fast reader, I move on to the next word before my brain has a chance to process what I just read, so add that with third person and it can be very confusing, but like I aid the book is not bad.
