https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46971.Windblown_World
Such a life, we all know, would not be for him, but it is amazing to read in this book how much of an average Joe Jack Kerouac really was.I really don’t understand how anyone can hate Jack Kerouac.
There’s an honesty and an approachability and an innocence and an aliveness and even an intelligence to Jack Kerouac that I have yet to encounter anywhere else, and that’s why reading almost anything by him leaves me awake, alive and inspired.And as far as this here journal goes, reading it should leave any writer inspired: not only does Kerouac treat writing as a "holy" profession, he is committed to working and does so with determination and loneliness through the nights.
It's taken me several months to read this.
Kerouac is one of my all time favourite writers, he writes the words from my soul in a way that very few others do.
This was a wonderful Christmas present.
I read it slowly because I wanted it to last.
It was wonderful to have this glimpse directly into his mind outside his crafted prose.
The diary of a struggling writer, determined to write and tell stories.
Full of dreams about succuess and worries of failure.
I'd recommend it to everyone who writes and worries about their writing.
my current read. an amazing daily log of the daily work of a workhorse writer. i love him
I have not checked it out yet, but it is likely that some of the parties described here, as well as the evenings at clubs listening to the jazz of musicians like Ornette Coleman, Dizzy Gillespie and George Shearing also appear in fictional form in Kerouac’s novel of the road.The journals include many instances in which Kerouac comments on his literary methods and models.
Another, and perhaps more useful thing to point out to potential readers of this book, is the difference between its 2004 hardcover and its 2006 paperback versions: while the latter includes pages from journals describing events later fictionalized in On the Road, the former does not.
This journal enlightens us to his struggles just to *be* a writer--which is a far cry from that image of Kerouac as the mindless typist cranking out words in a drug-fueled haze.Later entries shine a light on his most famous novel "On The Road," that it rarely receives.
Showing "On The Road" as a careful work, which goes through several conceptual changes, not to mention numerous drafts.Much of these journals are also notes from the journeys that actually appear in the finished novel, so we are able to see, in a way, how Kerouac captures his raw material.
Jack was an earnest seeker, and a confused young man when these journals were written.
It's heartbreaking to read his optimistic speculations on his possible futures (he was constantly searching for the right path) knowing what road he eventually took.
I got the impression he was hung up by and handicapped by his religion first (Catholicism) and his mother/family issues second.
The many references to God and salvation show someone who needed to believe and wanted to believe, but was constantly straying.
Jack tried Buddhism when Catholicism wasn't enough apparently.
Ecco quel che dice Dean quando, dopo le sue visioni da marijuana, qualcuno si china sul letto e gli chiede come sta.La vita è un viaggio sulla strada, dall'utero fino alla fine della notte, in cui si continua a tendere il cordone d'argento finchè non si rompe da qualche parte lungo il cammino.Apprezzabile lavoro di "reunion" dei suoi quaderni/diari/appunti, un lavoro che poteva comunque esser assemblato meglio, soprattutto per quanto riguarda l'ultima parte.In poche pagine vengono raggruppati appunti che, stando a quanto scritto dal curatore, riguardano la stesura di "Sulla Strada" ma non sono datati e sono talmente cupi, pessimistici e a tratti mistici, da far pensare ad un periodo che va oltre il 1954.Io ho un bisogno immediato di estasi.
The book is roughly divided into two sections--the first was penned while writing Town and the City; the second half is from the time his first novel was being published, while writing early drafts of On the Road, and contain an edited collection of road travels that would ultimately become the basis for his second and most famous novel.
Instead, we read a rather mundane collection of word counts written and notes of when he didn't write because he went into the city and got drunk.
I would rate this book 1 star but I needed to give a star to Douglas Brinkly who composed this nice set of Kerouac's journals.
Brinkly organizes the messy thoughts of of a self proclaimed genius with supreme organization and professionalism.
Kerouac and friends were a self absorbed bunch obsessed with finding inner truths by burning the candle at both ends.
Truly a young mans book but I wouldn't even recommend it to the young as Kerouac's journals do not exude any sort of profound wisdom - even if the author believes that he does.
A pleasure to be able to know Kerouac's innermost thoughts. The first bit of this was annoying, more of a work log. However, it was cool to see his views on T&C, his mood swings from extreme confidence to crippling self doubt, how ideas for On the Road came about, and to have a better idea of Kerouac as a person (as a man, a reader, and one of faith) rather than just as a writer. If you like this, I also recommend Last Words, which are Burroughs' final journals.
This exhaustive look into Kerouac's journals is unbelievably insightful. What I thought would be simply boring diary entries are, instead, an in-depth look at his writing process during his formative years. If you want to go beyond the main Kerouac canon, this would be the perfect place to start.
Seriously one the best books on Kerouac out there. I read maybe 5 years ago and I am still thinking about it and using its energy in my own writing.
All of Kerouac's personal journals from his most experimental and prolific period are compiled in this book for the first time, along with background and biographical footnotes on the people, places and cultural events that Kerouac references throughout to help put things in perspective for the reader.
It struck me, once I finished this book, that it was akin to reading a friend's very personal blog filled with their interior thoughts, philosophical musings, spiritual ramblings, mundane daily goings-on, parties, travel adventures and observations, romantic anecdotes, soulful heartaches, story ideas and outlines, character descriptions and ideas, false starts on novels, ect.
In another, Kerouac records the slow, daily/weekly progress on his first novel (The Town and the City)...
If you've felt a compulsion to express yourself by writing, a compulsion so great that it keeps you awake at night, then you will find points of reflection here.Approaching my thirties, Jack here is quite a bit younger than me, and I recognize the somewhat pretentious, yet extremely earnest drive of the man to write something great.
At sections, I feel like I am going through a dialogue with him, and my younger self.It is touching, and somehow sobering as well, reflecting on my own youth and it's hardships.
I remember how I once believed in something, and I feel how Jack Kerouac believed in something..
I mean, there's Albion Moonlight (the best book anyone will ever read), & that's a real novel, a real work of art - not some personal notes robbed from the corpse of a dead man & then published for the world to see.
There's even Zarathustra, which I'd probably recognize as somehow even greater than Albion if I had the capacity.
But I only wrote about 1/60th of Moonlight, & 1/1000th of Zarathustra, but I wrote half of this.Jack is one of the most beautiful souls in the world & I mourn.
I mourn greatly, & he makes me a better man.
Well, it seems Kerouac did not actually write On the Road in one, non-stop burst of unedited joy.
Seems he edited like mad, wrote various versions of the book - contrary to the myth.
This book changed my whole perception of JK, and not necessarily for the worse.
Seems lots of doors opened for him (almost too easily), but he worked very hard.
Most amusing part of these journals is the "baseball game" he created as a motivational tool to finish books.
He kept a "batting average," which was based on the number of pages he'd complete in a night.
What a great little gem I have just finished reading.
I wish I had read this book when I was in undergrad and wrote a final paper on the Denver sandlot game, which Kerouac offers such great insight into in "Windblown World." Anywho, this book, I would say, is really great for the seasoned Kerouac fan and offers so much in a supplementary way for "The Town and the City" and "On the Road" that it makes me want to go back and read them both, especially T&C, since it's been thirteen years since I last read it (I generally read "On the Road" once a year just because).
Enjoy this one, folks, it's a keeper!
This book contained 371 pages of Jack Kerouac's journals from 1947-1954.
The first half of the book contained journal entries regarding the progress of his first novel, Town & City.
Each day he recorded the number of words he had written, and a general feeling about the day and his work.
It was a little bland in places.
The second half of the book, however, contained journal entries from the time he spent driving cross country and hitch hiking with Neal Cassady, or by himself--this is the stuff that later appeared in On the Road, and was a far more interesting read.
I'm not someone who typically reads author journals. There are some good reasons why manuscripts go through so many iterations before they are finally published. That said, there are some amazing passages in here … and many parts where we are reading through grocery-list like notes. Definitely worth the read for the glimpse into Kerouac's work process.
It's interesting, but ultimately just for the die hards. He essentially took his interesting journals and made them into his novels. So this was what's left, I guess. There were some interesting insights into his writing process and it was cool to hear about a bus ride he left out of On the Road.
Jack Kerouac is my dead literary boyfriend. Reading the journals that describe the self-doubt and turmoil he went through while establishing his writing career will ease the fears of any writer who does the same. The sophistication of his stream of concious flow lets the reader fall into his head and be pulled along with the action.
I'm usually really nervous about reading these collected journals books but the title really grabbed me. Luckily, its not so much a compilation of personal events or murky emotional sentiment. There's a lot of rough work for On the Road and all sorts of great poemryprose and essay.
Mostly for the true Kerouac fan but also chock full of philosophical insights and rare glimpses into the uncompromising world of dedicated writers. An inspiring insight into how half a dozen writers created the "Beat" wave in American literature. A view from the heart of the New York literary melting pot.
A wonderful book; full of the insights and free-flowing energy for which Kerouac is so beloved. Particularly interesting is his daily journal entries, during the writing of his early novels; gives an intimate look at the inner struggles and doubts that must inevitably arise during the lonesome and trying task of writing books.
I loved this collection of Kerouac's journals very much. Getting deeper insight to the way he wrote and his general personality.
I really took my time with this one. I love Kerouac. Fantastic.
Stylized journal entries from Kerouac's early years as a writer
Half read...a little tedious. Not all journals are interesting, people.
journal entries as he wrote town and the city--his very own wolfe to time and the river
Neat book. I love Kerouac and all the Beats.
