https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/297249.The_Boxcar_Children
I read this book as a child and oh, did I ever cherish it.
These details are the strength of the book - for the little girl or boy who liked playing house and inventing routines, this book is perfect escapism.The book is by no means perfect - the children are saccharine, never fight and they don't seem to have much in the way of distinct personalities beyond their age-directed roles in the family unit.
Also, as the series goes on, I was always confused as to why they inexplicably began solving mysteries, since this first book has nothing to do with anything like that.
I picked up The Boxcar Children and begain to read.
I read this book to my children, I have even shared it with my grandchildren.
I have an original copy and I will pass it down to one of my children when I pass.To the adults that read this book and gave it low reviews, I think to really enjoy this book you must be a child.
The simple mystery, and exploration is made for a young child's mind.Yet the sad truth is children are now spoon feed TV, DVDs and Video games at an early age, little imagination is needed.
Maybe thats it, maybe this book is just to simple now days.
I never came across this book as a child - presumably it did not cross the Atlantic to the UK where I grew up on a diet of the Secret Seven and the Famous Five.
So I thought I would check it out now as it sits at the top of many popularity lists.Having read all the reviews I think many people must be giving it five stars just for nostalgia value because to an adult outsider like me it certainly does not get five stars for content!
I can understand why it is so popular and why it holds a special place in the hearts of those who read it years ago.
I absolutely LOVE this book and the entire BOXCAR CHILDREN series!!! Seeing this on a list of the Top 100 Children's Books, I simply had to add it to my Goodreads shelves. It was the book that pulled me in - hook, line, and sinker - as a passionate reader and supporter of public libraries. And praise be, many of my grandchildren are now discovering the magical joy of reading and have contemporary copies of this wonderful series, too. For more titles on the Top 100 Children's Books list: www.goodreads.com/blog/show/643-the-t...
I had also read that The Boxcar Children series is still very popular among kids despite having started in the 1940s.As the book was first published 70 years ago, I was expecting it to be somewhat old-fashioned and sexist.
Jessie, the older girl, stays at home to mind the younger kids (at one point cutting Benny's hair) and acts as a housekeeper, washing clothes and cooking meals.
Kids reading it should not be changed or affected by the gender stereotypes because they should be able to understand that in the past, things were very different than how they are now.
The books is very different from the current version.I do have one, and many things were changed.
That's why there are all the changes.The current version, the 1942 version, is the same as the version you read today.
If I had just given this a rating instead of feeling the need to re-read it, I would have clicked five stars and moved on with my life.
I remember REALLY liking these books when I was a kid.
And I like to think of myself as fundamentally the same person.
Turns out, The Boxcar Children series is terrible!
The only reason I gave it two stars was out of respect for the sliver of memory I have left of enjoying it.
This weekend I read The Boxcar Children, The Bicycle Mystery, and the Bus Stop Mystery (which was the worst of the three, by far).
My love for reading was formed during my early years and I can clearly remember the books that brought it about.
To be submerged in an ocean of bound together written words was and still is divine!!!This book deserves a nod for creating two reading interests for me: the mystery and the series.
I can now laugh at the far-fetched premise of orphaned children living in a boxcar solving mysteries but at the time, I was hooked.
I can guarantee part of my want for a clubhouse stemmed from this read, though sadly by the time I got a treehouse I was past mysteries and more into MLP and TMNT.
I wanted to read this book because my mom said it was one of her favorites from her childhood.
She said she identified with the children who had to take care of themselves.
Anyway, reading this makes me realize how much children's literature has changed.
The children are always happy when they're working, never seem to miss their parents or complain about sleeping in a haystack or a boxcar, and never even think about getting on each other's nerves.
Would I have liked this if I had read it as a child?
A very, very young, innocent child?
Bonus review (not following the rules, but very heartfelt): I re-read this book out of sheer nostalgia, after typing up my review of the very unfortunate graphic novel adaptation.
I was impressed, when I read the graphic novel, how much I remembered from the original...
When I finished the novel and was tempted to read on in the series, I suddenly remembered how little use I'd had for the rest of the books...
Children today (and of my generation, and probably one or two before it) don't really have those skills--when adolescent boys carry knives now they are rarely for whittling, and I certainly didn't learn how to cook a nice stew until I was well past childhood.
A novel about orphan siblings whom ran away from their grandfather that they never saw and knew he would treat them badly, as he didn't like their late mother. The story ending is wise as it turns out into a great conclusion.To sum up, sometimes the things we are most frightened of are the things we should, actually, embrace with all our senses. Finally, never close your ears of what you thought was the mere truth, everything needs consistent testing and evaluation by both our mind and heart.
I happened to stumble across this and I was addicted to these when I was younger so I thought a re-read was in order. It was a little different than I remember but just as charming. I can see why I wanted to live in a boxcar when I was little. However, there is some weird gender things and other stuff that I never would have noticed as a child but seems glaringly obvious and weird as an adult. Overall reading it again was a heck of a lot of fun.
hahaha wow this is such a weird story! But also just the kind of thing I like. I mean who wouldn't want to set up a little house in an old boxcar in the woods and eat delicious food and play in the creek.In closing, I have two words: CHERRY. DUMPLINGS.
I still remember the day I walked into my 5th grade classroom in 2008, and there was a little bookshelf in the corner with a green beanbag.
It was my first time in an American classroom, and I had never read an English book before.
I found this one, with a group of kids and this bright red train on the cover.So I opened it, and to my delight, there were drawings!
I loved the drawings, and I loved the four kids, their dog, and their boxcar.
I've read almost every single book in this series, and the first is still the one I know and remember the most.
I haven’t read this series in a long time. I was going to say how long, but I’m not trying to give away my age. These have to be the worlds most well behaved and unrealistic children of all time but I love them. It was fun to read again as an adult.
✩ 4 Stars ✩
I read The Boxcar Children as a child.
I think I was 7 or 8 when I started reading them.
It was the first series I ever collected and I loved these books.
He loves Benny and Watch, and though he may not understand all of what is happening, I think he is getting the gist of it all.
It's been a great experience to read these and re-live my childhood while sharing the magic of the story with my son.
Fantastic book no matter how old you are.
I love how cute and mildly antiquated it is.
I love the characters and how the children are so good.
I loved these books as a child.
In reading many of the comments made here, I realize that most of you may not know this book was published in 1942, right after the Great Depression.
This is a book about children who start off with nothing, but managed to survive and even thrive on their own resourcefulness.
This was probably a very powerful book in 1942 and it is still relevant, perhaps even more so, today.
How many children today would be so thrilled to find cracked dishes in a dump and be grateful to have them?
I read all of these books as a child and I loved them. great books for kids but beware it might want to make your kids live in a boxcar... I know it made me want to and my mother just laughed at me when I told her so... 😑
Ahh, this just stirs up happy childhood memories. I loved this book and series so much. It is one of those series that our family lends out all the time,
Loved these books when I was a child:)
Now beloved by this adult!!This is the first of a series about 4 orphans, the Aldens, who housed themselves in an abandoned boxcar.
The oldest Henry, does odd jobs for a local doctor, making enough money to buy butter and milk.
They resourcefully build a fireplace for cooking.
The oldest girl, Jessie, cooks wonderful meals for them.
She liked to stress the Aldens’ independence and resourcefulness and their solid New England devotion to using up and making do.
The Aldens go about most of their adventures with as little adult supervision as possible—something else that delights young readers.4 stars
I believe it was my second grade teacher who read this to our class. All I have is fond memories of childhood escapism, kids being able to forge their own way in the world without depending on adults.
What a sweet re-visit to childhood! A story of siblings who are unrealistically kind to each other, sharing, resourceful, and a little too picture perfect in all their friends and family, but a fun children's adventure nonetheless. Who didn't want to have their own little boxcar home as a child?
A nice nostalgia read courtesy of Worldreader Mobile and Open Road Media. I was so glad to find that the ebook has the gorgeous illustrations by L. Kate Deal, which make living in a boxcar and eating stew made of castoff runt vegetables just seem even that much more idyllic: The Alden siblings divide loaves of bread.Dumpster diving! Benny finds a pink cup.Jessie stirs stew made from tiny vegetables. Although not without creepy Pleasantville moments ("'Tomorrow will be Sunday, and I can stay at h
Kate Deal, which make living in a boxcar and eating stew made of castoff runt vegetables just seem even that much more idyllic:
Benny finds a pink cup.Jessie stirs stew made from tiny vegetables.
Genre: fiction, chapter bookTopic: runaways, life in a boxcar, Theme: independence, trusting adults, becoming self-sufficient,Illustrations: There are very few illustrations in this book.
The few there are depict scenes from the story.Use: read aloud, guided reading, independent readingReading level: FluentLiterary Elements: vivid descriptionsThoughts:Henry, Jessie, Violet and Benny, four orphaned brothers and sisters, suddenly appear in a small town.
Henry, the oldest, goes to town to earn money and buy food and supplies.Ambitious and resourceful, the plucky children make a happy life themselves- until Violet gets too sick for her brothers and sister to care for her.
I greatly enjoyed the whole series as a child, and would certainly recommend them to other readers in the targeted age-group, but I can't say that I have an overwhelming urge to re-read them as an adult.
The Boxcar Children books fall into what I like to call the 'Library' category: worth checking out from the library, but not worth buying sight-unseen.
While young children will probably enjoy them, I doubt that they will want to read most of them over and over again - so don't bother buying your own copy until you're sure that you (or your children) will want to read them more than once.
I never read these as a child and don't think I had much interest in them until searching for more books for my son to read.
He's 7, in 2nd grade, but reads on a 5th grade reading level.
I'm always trying to find books he can read that are on his level where the content isn't too old for him.
I thought it was a nice story and look forward to reading a few more of the boxcar books to see how they may fit with my son's needs.Oh and by the way, I just thought I'd mention that today is 3/3/09.
One of the first books I ever had read to me. I remember my third grade teacher - Ms. Murray. I loved this book. I just bought it to read to my grand-girl. Third grade for me was in 1969. Wow! I never read others in the series and frankly didn't know there were others. I hope she likes this one so we can read them all!Happy Reading!
A re-read of a very beloved book from my childhood. This story seemed so exciting when I read it as a child. Of course as an adult I can see why it probably wasn't a good idea for the children to live alone. It was a fun adventure, though!
