https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84844.Guilty_as_Sin
Even better than book 1.
I’ll start off by saying I’m not a fan of having to read two books to figure out the resolution to a mystery.
However, I liked the book even though it had some issues.The story continues with the State’s Assistant City Attorney Ellen North at the forefront.
To top it off, a Hollywood true crime writer has come to cover the story and he has designs on Ellen.Here’s what worked.
I like when a story stays true to character no matter how unpopular or uncomfortable that may seem.
The ending should have started about 100 pages earlier.
I've been reading the reviews and to be honest, I don't agree with most of them....I found this book
Why can't I choose negative stars as a rating?I haven't read much or any Tami Hoag before this book but I had such a visceral reaction to this book that I was hard pressed not to throw it across the room.
I've been reading Harlequin Romances since yesterday because EVEN THAT WAS BETTER THAN READING THE ALLEGED ROMANCE IN THIS NOVEL.
I want to finish it, I'm interested by the mystery part of the story but I absolutely loathe the "leading man" that Hoag has developed for her ethereally beautiful heroine.
Perhaps this would be more palatable if I was drunk?Finished finally.
Didn't get any better.
The actual mystery not half as clever as the author clearly thought herself.
Ellen is trying a local professor in good standing in the community with a kidnapping and possible murder of a young boy (Josh Kirkwood).
It needed cut down a lot.I personally didn't like the character of Jay at all and thought he was creepy/stalking Ellen.
I think I was supposed to be on pins and needles about what happened with everyone, but think that Hoag left way too many things up in the air regarding the personal relationships that may have drawn people in via book #1.
The whole mystery of what happened to Josh Kirkwood and why took way too long to get to.
Много ми харесаха и двете книги! Това ми е първият досег с авторката и определено съм ѝ фен вече! Силно препоръчвам на всички!
O protagonismo passou para a advogada Ellen North e o escritor de livros baseados em crimes verdadeiros Jay Butler Brooks.
Mesmo agora, depois da prisão do suspeito e do regresso de Josh a casa, são e salvo, o medo e as perguntas perduram.
Para além da comunicação social, todos os seus movimentos são seguidos de perto por Jay Butler Brooks.
Trata-se de um jogo de mentes doentias, em que utilizaram as vítimas como peões de xadrez.Mas há vários senãos… Fiquei aborrecido com a química previsível entre a Ellen e o Jay, não havia necessidade de os incluir na história.
This book was...Okay?I've noticed a theme with her books with me. I'm indifferent to most of the characters in her books, with a few exceptions. I really do like the way she writes the actual plot. The story itself was really good.
This book was drawn out way too long. I really only enjoyed the last 100 pages or so when things started coming to an end. And the main character, Ellen North is a self righteous, hypocritical, bitch who can't control her emotions any better than a two-year-old. That’s all I have to say about that.
Perhaps if I had known that this was a continuation of another book I would have liked it more, but I doubt it . The romance plot added nothing but irritation to the story. I would have had a restraining order taken out on that man.
I didn't really like the romance between Ellen and Jay either, as I missed the relationship between Mitch and Megan and I wanted to see more of it after reading Night Sins, which did not happen often with only glimpses of their life now.
Besides that though, some characters are quite interesting and returning characters are certainly quite strong and fun to read overall, with an exception of a key few.The mystery aspect of the novel isn't that good either, as the culprit in the first book is already caught and it's now just a hunt for his accomplice, who is actually just a bit hard to figure out.
3.0. I was ready to call this a 2.0, but it did get better as it went. Small town lawyer (who was a big town lawyer) ends up with a crazy case of child abduction, murder and all other fun twists. Story is good, but writing could have been better. Lots of unneeded stuff/descriptions going on. Still not the worst thing I have read, but not the best either. Prob. would not read it again. Maybe if it was half its size.
An older novel by Tami Hoag, bought at the Maui Friends of the Library store, is not up to her later work. I can’t really recommend it.
I haven't read Night Sins, and really don't plan to, but I can see how readers of the first book might be at least slightly bored or disappointed in the turnout of this sequel.Having said that, I was drawn into the story from the beginning; it kept me interested in reading through to see the outcome (despite the fact that this book is 600 pages long).
Nevertheless, I was disappointed by what seemed to be an open-ended finale due to the Epilogue as well as the fact that we never found out how Costello came to be involved with the defense.Overall, the book was a good read.
... za svižný konec a podrobné seznámení se spoustou postav.
But the psychology professor is a master at mind control, and even from his cell, it seems he is manipulating justice and the entire community to meet his needs and ensure his freedom.Not long after he is incarcerated, and only weeks before his formal trial, things get even more interesting for the professor when he hires the best defense money can buy--a lawyer who once had a relationship with Ellen North.Early into the book, Josh, the boy who was kidnapped in the first book in the series, is released to his parents.
Diciamo che la trama poliziesca viene usata per far sì che:1) Ellen North e Jay Butler Brooks si scambino, in prima battuta, dei "baci profondi" (parole testuali) e poi “scopino come ricci", con conseguente dettagliata descrizione: "Ellen non indossava il reggiseno.
E se i seni di Ellen non si fossero adattati "perfettamente alla mano di Jay" cosa sarebbe successo?
L'importante è che Ellen e Jay "ondata dopo ondata" arrivino all'orgasmo.2) Hannah e Tom scoprano di essere innamorati.
Questi due, ovviamente, non “scopano come ricci”.
Tra tutti e due sembrano talmente “rincoglioniti” che non se ne riesce neppure a cogliere un lato comico.
I'm telling you, it is the same scenes written over and over again set in different stories with different characters.But you know, I was reading it.
If you do then you will know what I mean when I say these books are McDonald's.But to tell you about this particular story; it was heavier on the thriller than the romance.
I just didn't know how many people might be involved, there were quite a few potentials.It is an engaging romantic thriller and I'm sure I will keep reading Tami Hoag, despite my griping.
No entanto, entre descrições detalhadas do nariz de uma e do seio da outra, a desabrida Ellen North, a nova protagonista de Hoag — advogada intrépida, mulher emancipada de seu juízo consternado à laia de um feminismo quase tão extremista que chega a ser verdadeira misandria —, não deixa de ser um espelho daquela primeira heroína, menos, talvez, uma forçosa ideia de sexualidade latente, escondida nas caixas de cartão e nas dobras de flanela que se amontavam pelo apartamento vitoriano da jovem inspectora.Se o primeiro livro, que é já demasiadamente longo, se oferece a uma leitura, não obstante, relativamente regrada e até estimulante, com bons momentos de suspense e reviravoltas mais ou menos inesperadas, que o mesmo não se espere de uma sequela cujo propósito único, ou assim se lê o livro em alturas distintas da trama, é dar escape à volúpia em que por demais se ocupam as mulheres e homens de Hoag quando, de resto, há crianças a desaparecer e pessoas a morrer a torto e a direito.
The man suspected in the kidnapping that occurred in the first book is in jail awaiting trial and a second boy is kidnapped.
Although many of the characters from the first book return, the heroine and hero of this book are new: Ellen North, the prosecuting attorney, and Jay Brooks, a famous real crime writer who plans to write about the case.
I especially enjoyed the strong, intelligent female characters, Ellen, Hannah (mother of the first kidnap victim) and Megan (BCA agent, heroine of Night Sins).
And of course Jay and Mitch (the police chief, hero of Night Sins) are compelling characters as well.
this book reminded me.
this book rang in as a wannabe-grisham-type procedural, instead of a tightly paced thriller, which is what i was expecting.
the only thing that kept me going was the fact that i figured there had to be SOME conclusion, and in fact there was, in the traditional thriller-style "heroine has it out in life and death situation with villain".
yeah, i guess i was expecting more from the plot, especially because it's clear how good she could be - and this is one of her earlier books, so hopefully she has improved.
it wasn't bad, it just wasn't really good either.
I really enjoyed this book, a thriller/romance that was complex, believable, and well-written.
There were a lot of characters with distinct personalities, memorable personalities which made it easy to keep track of who everyone is and what role they were playing.
The protagonist is a female lawyer who is believable, feels like a real person, behaves in a credible manner.
My only problem with this novel is that the POV jumped around a bit much for my liking.
Sometimes within a scene the POV would change and though I didn't find it confusing, I did notice it.
Other than that, I completely enjoyed this book.
Disappointment.
I expected a lot of answers from this book.
The book was not engrossing, the only reason I finished it fast, was because I skipped a lot of pages.Just like NIGHT SINS, this book wastes a lot of pages on relationships between the protagonists.
I like a crime novel which throws up a fair amount of of clues, but this book is very much lacking in that respect.Another favorite feature of mine, is the investigation part, the legwork, the truth digging drives.
Here, anyone barely searches for any kind of clue at all.
And, just like the first book, the culprit revea
Assistant District Attorney Ellen North and her team believe they have the person who kidnapped young Josh and brutally beat BCA agent Megan O'Malley in custody. The suspect retains a well known attorney to defend him. Then another child is kidnapped. Do they really have the mastermind of the crime in custody?
Good sequel! I read it right before the television adaptation entitled Night Sins premiered on tv.
Tami Hoag mais uma vez conseguiu conquistar-me!
I struggled to finish this book.
I started it out at first dreading it because I struggled with the first book.
And it did, for a while, but then the anticipation of getting to the scene I was given as a preview at the beginning of the book started to die.
I got almost halfway through the book then my attention started to drift.
The scene in question, of course, didn’t happen until nearly the end of the book.
I’ve read other books by her that I’ve enjoyed much more.

Česky nížeEnglish review:Too long, intricate story. A lot of machinations behind the scenes, politics, formalities and life reversals. Attorneys behave like investigators, the police is useless, the press is omnipotent. No tension, action, mystery. It was really difficult for me to went through it.Česká verze:Příliš dlouhá, zašmodrchaná detektivka. Hodně zákulisních pletich, politiky, formalit a životních zvratů. Právní zástupci se tady chovají jako detektivové, policie nedělá skoro nic, tisk může všechno. Žádné napětí, akce, záhada. Pro mě bylo náročné se tím prokousat.
Having felt compelled to read this sequel because that's what kind of a reader I am, I was sorely disappointed.
I would have rather read two other books.
Author Hoag only knows how to write about one kind of relationship between a man and woman and she repeated it in the second book.
That being a strong, self sufficient, independent woman who could have made a great protagonist pursued by aggressive, abrasive man who makes her think she can't live without him just because he knows how to wave his junk at her.
And the plot which was twisty turny good in the first book was a huge let down in the second.
