https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128865.Dinner_at_Antoine_s
Oh (heavy handed) irony!My copy physically started off like this;  and ended up like this; That's right, the whole thing fell apart literally as well as figuratively.The best parts were the descriptions of Antoine's and it's decadent sounding menus and descriptions of Creole traditions like Carnivale. The worst was pretty much everything else. Minor irritations were a romance between two characters who clearly weren't relevant to the murder mystery & who did very little to drive the plot for
Minor irritations were a romance between two characters who clearly weren't relevant to the murder mystery & who did very little to drive the plot forward and the meandering pace (often with a lot of moralising) What really bugged me was the thick patois given to black maidservant Tossie, especially at the start of the story.
Normally for me to stop that late in a book it would have to be because of work or because my house was on fire!If you want to try some of her writings on the South I would recommend 
Or if you want to see FPK make a better attempt at a murder mystery there is 
This book is like a fun old movie one enjoys watching on a rainy day.
It's not the best quality, but it's just so darned entertaining!The social mores, morals, fashions, food and drink are so detailed, it makes this a fun read.
(There is a long description of making pressed duck!) It is a fast read despite all the details.
You can borrow or buy it super cheap.Enjoy!Although I've read the book three times, and visited New Orleans, I never had a desire to go to Antoine's.
New Orleans area has the best food ever.
I always want to visit New Orleans when I read Frances Parkinson Keyes' books set there and this is no exception.Orson is hoping to renew his relationship with a rich widow, Amelie Lalande.
Just as grating was the phonetic language used for Tossie's speech which was not only very stereotyped but very hard to understand as a reader.Not my favourite Frances Parkinson Keyes book but I will still read all her others as I do love her books in general and learning a little about the area and period she write them in, frequently about life post World War II in New Orleans as this one is.
I would note that Dan Brown's long novels, e.g. The DaVinci Code, are not really murder mysteries so much as they are adventure/intrigue stories, which is a completely different category.
The restaurant created the dish Oysters Rockefeller, and many of the dishes mentioned in the novel are on the 2016 menu, so as in all things New Orleans, tradition plays an important part--and it certainly does in the story as well.
I've read a great many murder mysteries set in New Orleans, one of my favorite cities.
This one stands out because of the great amount of detail Keyes uses to describe the minutiae of upper class New Orleans life.
Really enjoyed this book set in the 1940's. It is true to the time period. I read it because I found it in my grandmother's books with a note that she had made that she and my grandfather had dined at Antoine's in 1956 and thoroughly enjoyed their experience. This gave the book a more special meaning knowing that not only had she read it, but that she had been to the restaurant.
The lives of everyone around Odile are irrevocably changed before the person who killed her is revealed."Dinner At Antoine's" is in some way a love letter to New Orleans -- luxurious restaurants, beautiful clothes, passionate romance and some moderate decadence.
The whole mammy thing is particularly awkward, but to Keyes' credit, she depicts Tossie as a warm and strong-willed person.If you can look past the dated aspects of the narrative, "Dinner at Antoine's" is a delicious little novel that straddles the line between murder mystery and love letter to New Orleans.
I've walked past Keyes restored house in the French Quarter fairly often, and each time I would wonder: why don't people read Keyes any more?
Then I found Dinner at Antoine's among some free paperbacks and finally read something by her.
I no longer wonder.It's slow going.
Lots of characters (every one a murder suspect), they all talk the same (except for the black servants, who talk in Uncle Remus), and none talk like humans, nor act like them either.
Overwritten, overwrought, overly ornate, and without a sense of place.
Given that it's set in New Orleans high society, that placelessness may be the book's greatest feat.
For my upcoming New Orleans trip, everyone mentioned this as a classic New Orleans novel.
But it's old and creaky.
Written in a totally different style.
And a black Mammy talking in stereotypical New Orleans dialog.
For such a fluff novel it took forever to read.
It's technically about a murder, but the murder happens in the third chapter, is not really a very interesting crime and then it gets dragged out and not resolved until the final two chapters.
The middle just reads like a lot of society fluff.
It took much longer to read than it should have.
Since I'm going to visit New Orleans and probably see the house where this book was written, I thought I'd give it a read. All I can say is that writing styles have changed since 1948 when Keyes authored it. In investigating the mystery I kept thinking, "Why don't they just test the blood to see whose it was?" Of course, in 1948 that technology didn't exist! So....if you're interested in reading a classic that differs with today's suspense/mystery writing style, check this book out. Otherwise, move on.
"Senator Marlowe's Daughter" has been one of my favorite books for years, so I wanted to read another book by this author. While quite different, this book didn't disappoint. I particularly enjoyed the multiple point of view from the characters.Having lived in Louisiana, I also enjoyed the lush portrayal of New Orleans and surrounding area. The book is full of well-drawn characters in a carefully conceived plot. Very enjoyable.
This is not one of her best books but I think it is the most famous because of the legendary New Orleans restaurant [http://www.antoines.com/]. When my father was on sabbatical at Tulane, I went to visit and went to lunch at Antoine's with my parents. We especially enjoyed their signature Pommes du Terres Souffles. An autographed copy of the book is on display at the restaurant and it is mentioned on their website.
Since I live in New Orleans and have visited the Keyes home, I found this very interesting. It is definitely a reflection of the date it was written (1948) as far as attitudes about servants and women. But the characterizations were interesting and the mystery provocative. It kept my attention and was a fun read.
I really enjoyed this fun murder mystery. The author has a lot to say about socially acceptable behavior in the '40s, and the characterizations are definitely of that time. The women and servants are pretty heavily stereotyped. But the characters are different and interesting, the plot moves forward at a steady pace, and the quaint writing is entertaining. I thought it was fun and engaging.
Wow, what a journey through a time of misogynism and racism. After reading this book, you won't pine for the "good old days." Not to mention everyone talked too much about nothing, and too little about what was important. What a shallow world the author created.
Thinking of reading Rebecca so many years ago--I remembered that I also love Frances Parkinson Keyes. So I plan to reread Dinner at Antoines and River Road. I've never been able to visit New Orleans with out flashbacks to these books--even thought I can't remember the plots.
Read some ratings of this book. Of course the feminine archetype is stifled and not equal to a man's place in society. look at the time this book was written. duh
This year I want to read some of the books I saved from my mother's library.
Published after WWII and set in New Orleans, it definitely feels dated, particularly in the portrayal of women and minorities.
However, the characters and story are compelling and more interesting than I anticipated.
It is always an interesting experience to feel sympathy for the murderer.
Keyes does a great job of establishing the atmosphere of New Orleans, and I enjoyed that aspect of the book.
I can really see why my mom liked this book, and why she kept it for so many years, rereading it several times.
Set in New Orleans, this murder mystery has so much charm. Ruth was really only coming to visit her uncle and experience Carnival, but then Odile is shot, and the mystery ensues. Keyes characters are spot on for the time and setting, and she incorporated real people she met while living in New Orleans into her story. The introduction in my edition about Keyes was wonderful as well- Keyes liked to live in the settings of her novels before writing them, and she was enchanted by New Orleans (as she well should have been!).
A mystery set in New Orleans after WWII, this book was a fun read. Coming in at 479 pages of really small font, a good editor could have cut out at least 100 pages.Lots of wonderful characters carefully developed; elegant rooms, clothes, jewelry, accessories sometimes over described. It was fun and interesting reading about the social mores of the day.All in all, a good read even if tedious in places.
I read this bok because it was cited in a New Orleans guide book and I like that city. It does have the feel of New Orleans (people, scenes, food, police, etc.). Written in a time when racist language was "normal," it is harsh now. If it's possible to get past that, there is a slow developing mystery classic embedded.
I loved this book. It was written in the 1940's, so it was more drawn out than I typically like....but it was beautifully done. I enjoyed it thoroughly.
Loved it!!! Really felt like i was in the 1940s when reading it.
Perhaps this is why, even though compelling enough to read to the end, I had trouble reading more than 3 or 4 pages at a time.This was written and takes place in 1948, but [because of the New Orleans setting, perhaps?] it could just as easily taken place 50 years earlier, and it is quite easy to mentally substitute a carriage for any mention of an automobile, and a telegraph or messenger for a telephone call.
maybe I will re-read this in a few years and see if I can figure it out any better.
This was a shameless plug for Antoine's restaurant best left to the food critic experts for review.
The song about the levee best accentuated the torture.
I know an author has to research the material to write a book, but that doesn't mean that one should put every single, solitary scrap of information found in it.
If so, then call it, "Every thing you every wanted to know about the societal norms of 1948 New Orleans", instead of trying to pass this off as a murder mystery.
I did like how the author allowed the reader to hear the thoughts of the characters, it was a pleasant distraction.
I enjoyed this book. Definitely jolts you back to the 1940s. Hubby and I are headed to New Orleans for an anniversary trip and I enjoyed the authors descriptions of the life of the city. Hope to visit a few of the landmarks mentioned in the book while there! I didn't know much about the book before reading it and was interested to discover the inclusion of assisted suicide. Certainly prompts thinking through the moral and ethical dilemmas surrounding the issue.
I read this because I was trying to get in the mood for a trip to New Orleans. The book was only okay, but it was still better than the trip. (Side note: never travel to New Orleans in July if you can help it.) As a mystery it was not great. But the characters were well-developed and sympathetic to varying degrees.
I really enjoyed this, felt like I had entered an old New Orleans game of Clue. Took a little while to get used to the style! And have to overlook some serious stereotyping, but I still enjoyed. Book club having Dinner at Antoine's discussion at Antoine's this month, naturally!
This book had a story that started out slow for me, but captured my attention as it progressed. I had so many mind-opening moments with this book and I have several quotes that I want to save for further reflection. Great book!
4 stars because it's set in the 40's in New Orleans. The murder mystery almost takes a backseat to the town of New Orleans and the depiction of black servants is almost racist. The story holds together as several of deceased family members and friends are suspects.
I don't think this book holds up over time. The deep south dialect used by the maid and other characters is so dated and so "overdone" that it gets in the way of the flow of the story.I gave it a 100 pages and returned it.
