https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47520.Castle_in_the_Air
At first glance, this novel doesn't sound like a sequel--it sounds more like a companion book at best--but I promise it does explain more about Howl and Sophie, just not right away and not, perhaps, in the most obvious way.That said, this story is set in the Sultanates of Rashpuht a land far to the south of Ingary (where Howl and Sophie make their home).
So begins Abdullah's adventure as he and his carpet set off to rescue his true love.This being a novel by Diana Wynne Jones, the plot is filled with charming twists and enjoyable characters throughout.
Another very readable book from DWJ, and one I've just finished reading to my daughter, Celyn.
He's not hero material, and never resorts to violence, but he's a good fellow and carries the story well.We get all the standard Aladdin-esque trappings, a magic carpet, a genie in a bottle, evil djinns, bandits, sultans, camels...
You'll find yourself anticipating the reappearance of the Wizard Howl and Sophie.The ending was where things fell apart a little for me, and perhaps for Celyn judging by the somewhat bemused silence she greeted it with (she's non-verbal but normally makes her views known).
on speed.Anyhow, it was good at the end to finally catch up with Sophie and Howl.
Eventually Abdullah's and Flower's story twines together with some of the main characters from Howl's Moving Castle.Abdullah's ability to use flowery language to good effect is told with affectionate humor:"O elegant tapestry of enchantment," Abdullah said, "O carpet composed of most complex cantrips, I pray you to move at a sedate speed toward Kingsbury, but to exercise the great wisdom woven in your fabric to make sure that we are not seen by anyone on the way."Obediently the carpet climbed through the mist.
Castle in the Air (Howl's Moving Castle, #2), Diana Wynne Jones (1934)Castle in the Air is a young adult fantasy novel written by Diana Wynne Jones, and first published in 1990.
The novel is a sequel to Howl's Moving Castle and is set in the same fantasy world, though it follows the adventures of Abdullah rather than Sophie Hatter.
The book features many of the characters from Howl's Moving Castle, often under some sort of disguise.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: پانزدهم نوامبر سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: قلعه ای در آسمان: جلد 2 از قلعه متحرک هاول؛ نوشته: دایانا واین (وین) جونز؛ مترجم: بهاره افشارنژاد؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، بهاره افشارنژاد، 1384، در 248 ص، شابک: 9640670359؛ یادداشت: ادامه کتاب قلعه متحرک نوشته دایانا وین جونز، با ترجمه شراره صدیق، کتابسرای تندیس در سال 1381 هجری خورشیدی است، موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان آمریکایی قرن 20 ما.
Zbog tematike na momente sam morao da se podsećam da ovo nije Salman Ruždi, već neko drugi...Stil pripovedanja, ali i pisanja, je otprilike isti kao u prvom delu, i može se naslutiti kako će se roman završiti, kao i "prošlost" određenih magijskih predmeta ili likova.
Jednostavno čitalac može da "nanjuši" sumnjivog lika ili sumnjiv predmet i da pretpostavi šta se u njemu krije.Interesantne su paralele koje je spisateljica povukla sa pričama iz 1001 noći - duh, čarobni tepih,...
korice za srpsko izdanje su očajne...
Verujem da bi knjiga imala bolju prođu da su korice drugačije i da se knjiga malo više popularizovala.
Não tinha dúvidas de que esse livro seria fantástico, assim como O Castelo Animado.A escrita da Diana é fora do comum.
Ela sabe fazer com que a história brilhe e transborde magia.
Fiquei surpreso em me deparar com algumas coisas de O Castelo Animado — não achei que teriam elementos ou se passaria no mesmo universo, então foi uma descoberta bacana.
Ao mesmo tempo, toda essa temática de deserto, gênios, princesas e tapetes voadores me deixou encantado.O ritmo é perfeito e a narrativa mega fluída, e isso me envolveu de uma forma muito forte.
A história é muito bem elaborada, interessante, cheia de reviravoltas e com um toque de magia (sem exagero) que unifica tudo isso.
Abdullah, then, sets off to rescue his love with the help of his magic carpet and the good head on his shoulders.Like in Howl's Moving castle, in this second book, Winne Jones impresses me by weaving together a story from what it seems are a series of random details, which significance only becomes evident as the plot advances.
Some help us see this new and unknown world while others give substance to the story.Wynne Jones plays with out expectations, giving us insta-love that while seemingly cliche in fact is there to show that falling in love is rather an excuse and not a reason to change our lives and go for an adventure.
When Flower was acting coldly towards Abdullah, I thought, "Great, the other princesses have educated her about her plans for a hasty elopement.
Now she knows that Abdullah only valued her for her beauty and, while it was nice of him to come to her rescue, she certainly didn't need him." But, what happens instead?
Sophie, a great magician herself, must rely on the Wizard Sulliman, Howl, Abdullah, the soldier, etc.
Even Lettie, Sophie's strong-willed sister, was made to kept her powers secret because "Ben doesn't like people to know that I can do magic".
Abdullah doesn't like Sophie for being strong-willed.
Pero, vamos, para lo que hacen, mejor que no los hubiese metido en la historia, porque están irreconocibles.Yo no sé si es porque la autora situa la acción en otra cultura que no es la suya y eso le da la excusa perfecta para desatar su racismo y machismo.
Pensaba que con la aparición de Sophie se arreglaría, pero NOPE, fue a peor.En serio, le he dado dos estrellas porque me gusta mucho la autora (y porque hay un personaje que se llama Beatrice, así de tonta soy) y ha habido momentos que he podido disfrutar del libro y he conseguido engancharme, pero es que es tan jodidamente machista que casi lo quemo.
That being said I picked this up with trepidation because I was rather disappointed the book wasn’t going to be from the main characters in the first, nor would it have a direct focus on it.
But they do occur later on.That being said, I loved this book!
I loved how she managed to turn this into another one of her witty, light-hearted, but not lacking in depth, fantasy tales.
It was quite ingenious how she managed to trick us throughout the whole book.
Even if the summary doesn’t sound as engaging as the first novel, give it a chance because it’s an excellent read that will more than satisfy you at the end.
8.5 out of 10 Ревью в моем блоге/This review on my blogLiving A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work)Short-Soundtrack:John Me – Love Is My Drug, Is My MedicineGenre: fairytale, fantasyStuff: jinn, flying carpet and castle, magicFail: funny, but not charismatic MCWOW: old characters, the plot, humorPOV: 3rd person, maleLove-Geometry: noneQuote-Core:  “Fate doesn't care most of the time.
Okay, I have to admit, I pick this book up thinking only about Howl and ended up being indifferent in new characters' fates, but the story itself and the writing (especially Russian translation) were super funny and smart, plus old heroes had played their roles, so overall I'm happy and ready for more.This installment's adventures start in Zanzib where we meet Abdullah who sells carpets and loves to dream.
I won't ever get tired of Howl and Sophie, even if there's not very much of them here. Still, a fun and enjoyable book!
Una vera e propria fiaba che mette di buonumore (dovrebbe essere prescritta come medicina).E i colpi di scena non mancano! (view spoiler)[ Mezzanotte è Sophie, Peste è suo figlio, il Genio è Howl e il Tappeto magico è Calcifer (hide spoiler)]Rubo l'aggettivo alla recensione di Fefi (scelta di parola perfetta ^^):Incantevole.
Loved it. Even better than the preceding volume (which I did enjoy), because everything I disliked about Howl's Moving Castle was fixed herein.
4.5 / 5Una descripción hermosa de los escenarios. Incluso poética. Un excelente y original libro de fantasía.Reseña: http://www.eternamenteentiniebla.com/...
The plot makes more sense on a first read-- there's a clear mission from the get-go, and the reveals at the end aren't at all confusing.2.
I adored his way of speaking, the manners of his psuedo-Arabian upbringing which led to delightful passages like:"O most excellent of carpets," he said, "O brightest-colored and most delicately woven, whose lovely textile is so cunningly enhanced with magic, I fear I have not treated you hitherto with proper respect.
Castle in the Air might confuse some readers at first-- if you go in expecting another book full of Sophie, Howl, and Calcifer, you're in for a surprise.
Castle in the Air is indeed a companion to Howl's Moving Castle, but the first thing to accept is that you won't be seeing much of Howl and Sophie.
Abdullah finds himself with a magic carpet, that he doesn't know how to control, exactly, and meets with the princess Flowers-in-the-Night.
Abdullah himself, who is a smooth talker but quite sincere in his love for Flowers-in-the-Night.
Flowers-in-the-Night herself, who isn't content to be in distress and who is as intelligent as she is beautiful.
It also has the same sort of chaotic ending that Howl's Moving Castle had, which I liked.
Per buona parte di questo libro sono stato letteralmente conquistato dal suo fascino esotico da fiaba araba, sembrava un racconto tratto dalle 1000 e una notte.
Ok, incantesimi, maledizioni, quello che vuoi, ma il richiamo ai personaggi di collegamento della trilogia a mio avviso è stato fatto veramente a caso v_vInizialmente ero intenzionato a dire che questo libro mi era piaciuto più del suo predecessore, nonostante la mancanza di un collegamento (il fantomatico castello qui ha il ruolo di mera comparsa), poi però l’ho finito e mi sono dovuto ricredere.
At no point did I know where the story was going, and in the end I was so incredibly happy to see how it all ironed out, I can hardly wait to see some of my favorite characters back in House of Many Ways!Now, all of those twists and turns have a major drawback in the reviewing front in that it’s difficult to talk about a lot of the story in Castle in the Air without spoiling some things, so I’m going to be careful and brief!
Fans of Howl’s Moving Castle will adore appearances by their favorite characters, and appreciate the wit, charm, and elegance that is Diana Wynne Jones’ writing.
Al principio del libro la historia me estaba gustando pero no me acababa de convencer, me hacía gracia la alfombra, el genio me caía super bien, los gatitos, pero no conseguía conectar con Abdullah ni el soldado.
Toda la historia de Flor-en-la-noche me estaba pareciendo un poquitín empalagosilla y deseaba que pasasen más cosas.Pero cual fue mi sorpresa cuando se va descubriendo poco a poco (view spoiler)[que Sophie es uno de los gatitos, que el castillo donde están las princesas cautivas es el castillo ambulante y sobre todo cuando Howl resulta ser el genio y Calcifer la alfombra!!!!
(hide spoiler)]Faltará ahora comprobar qué tal es "la casa de los mil pasillos"
I thought this was really fun read, just slightly more than Howl's Moving Castle, which I was surprised by!
The main character in this one, Abdullah, speaks in the most ridiculous, flowery way, and I loved it!
Probably my main issue was Abdullah equating slimness with beauty, and of course the whole insta-love thing between him and Flower-in-the-Night (what a name...).
I was so intrigued to find out how exactly this is a sequel to Howl's Moving Castle though, and I really liked how that was revealed!
Overall I found this a delightfully cute read and I'd say it's a 3.5-4 star from me.
this book was really good! it was funny and had all of hte great characters from Howl's Moving Castle along with a few new and very entertaining characters. there were some plot twists along with curses and disguises. it had a great ending with many surprises. so all in all, the perfect book.
El argumento, si nos fijamos bien, tiene un cierto toque de Las mil y una noches que le diferencia claramente de EL CASTILLO AMBULANTE.
Casi podríamos decir que es un libro aparte.Así, nos encontramos siendo testigos de las aventuras (¿o quizá desventuras?) de Abdullah por encontrar a su amadísima y bellísima Flor-en-la-noche.
marca especial de Diana Wynne Jones, capaz de hacer que un libro de fantasía tome la forma de una historia de cuento, tan mágicas y maravillosas como las que leíamos cuando éramos pequeños y aún así hacer que nos maravillemos y sorprendamos.Para los amantes de Howl y Sophie, deciros que (view spoiler)[ sí que aparecen.
Il mio adorato Howl si presenta quasi alla fine, in modo si bizzarro, come sua abitudine, ma per niente significativo!
E pur essendo un personaggio simpatico lui stesso, non mi sono affezionata alla sua storia, in alcuni punti la narrazione poi è molto lenta.
Non è un libro pessimo, è simpatico e gioioso.La presenza di Sophie e il finale, tipicamente alla Howl e con un colpo di scena, che fortunatamente mi ha rallegrato e lasciato a bocca aperta, hanno salvato il tutto dalla bocciatura totale.Ma rimane la delusione…
This as a great spin off to Howl's Moving Castle. While Howl and Sophie aren't main characters you will see them at small points throughout the story. This story felt like a fun retelling of Arabian Nights/Aladdin. I connected with Abdullah quickly and loved how much of his life we learn about before he meets the princess. The way he finds the flying carpet is so well written and the story is just a fun read.
I had no idea what I wanted to read next and so I perused my library's overdrive where I found this book to be available for download. I love when a random selection becomes a book you fall in love with! Flying carpets, djinns, loveable characters, compelling storyline...it had all this and more! Definitely will pick up more by Diana Wynne Jones in the future. :)
(3.5 stars) Not as good as Howl’s Moving Castle, but enjoyable. I don't know what else to say about it, possibly because listening to it on audiobook means I started it so long ago. I missed Howl and Sophie and Calcifer, and felt that this book had a little less of the inherent charm Moving Castle had, though it has its own humor (especially the genie).
3.5 Stars Another fun adventure from the same enchanting world of Ingrid ..
This time we move a bit south to the land of Zanzib where we meet our hero Abdulla who is a carpet merchant with a silky smooth way of talking, he falls in love with princess Flowerin-the-night and intends to marry her, but she gets kidnapped and it's up to Abdulla to rescue her from her fate I loved how vast is this world and Abdulla is an adorable character to follow specially the way he talks!, my main issue with the book was the ending ..
on to the last book :)
I didn’t like this book as much because the characters aren’t as interesting or endearing, but the story is entertaining.Abdullah is a rug merchant in the land of Zanzib.
The soldier, who is not named until the end of the novel, doesn’t interest me and I found his fawning over the cat and her kitten to be excessive and silly and unbelievable.
The ending is enjoyable because I finally got to see Sophie and Howl and Calcifer again, but it wasn’t enough of an appearance to make me like the book more.
He and the carpet, a djinn in a bottle, a strange soldier, and a couple of cats (all enchanted save for Abdullah), set out to free Flower-in-the-night from the clutches of the djinns Dalzel and Hasruel (as well as all of the other princesses they have collected).After I discovered that Diana Wynne Jones had written sequels to Howl’s Moving Castle, I was really excited.
