https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/263111.Dorsai_
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Minimum of Bloodshed: "Dorsai!" by Gordon R.
Dickson(Original Review, 1980-08-24)On the question of Dickson's Dorsai or Childe cycle: I understand that originally there were to be 9 books.
I also read that publishers were unwilling to put out SF books of the size of the 3 proposed so they were each split in half.
So far only 4 books have been published (or so I believe, correct me if I am wrong).
That is the order of their internal chronology (i.e., read them in that order), not the order of their publication.
And reading "Dorsai!," I can see why Heinlein's military science-fiction novel has withstood the test of time better than this one has.It's not that "Dorsai!" is necessarily a terrible novel.
The story does start to come together in the last third of the novel, but by then I was so frustrated with the book and the episodic nature that the best narrative tie-up in the world wasn't going to help things.A lot of it stems from the fact that the main character, Donal Graeme, isn't all that terribly likeable.
Whether Dorsai is to your particular taste or not, you’ll find echoes of it in almost every other modern Military Science Fiction novel.
Released around the same time as Starship Troopers, these two novels pretty much kickstarted the genre.
Some folks prefer the more visceral, “man on the ground” approach of Troopers, while others gravitate toward the strategic , or long view, approach of Dorsai!.
Either way, it didn’t take authors long to realise the benefits of combining both these two aspects into their stories.As for me, I really enjoyed this book (as I did Troopers).
This time the first of the Childe Cycle (although I have always called it the Dorsai series).
The premise is that you have a series of worlds (14 in all in this book) that have through reasons explored in the book separated out to very specific and highly specialised societies - in the case of Dorsai - instinct and talented soldiers.
This book was to be part of the Childe cycle - a series that sadly was never finished upon Dickson death however you certainly get a flavour of what he was planning (it was believe there was only one more book to be added to the sequence).
5.0 stars. Absolutely superb, classic SF by one of the masters. Dorsai is a great example of the science fiction "superman" and Gordon Dickson's plot incorporates him very well. Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1960)
This is the first of the Childe Cycle, a series of 11 books that was written across almost 50 years.
By some odd chance, I wound up getting the entire series, except for the last book, so I think I'll read them all again in published order, since I haven't seen any list that suggests a better one.
I'm starting "Necromancer" now.This is one of the better, if not a definitive books in space warfare.
Much better than so many other old SF books, so I'm giving it 5 stars for being the start of something real good.

Dorsai!By Gordon R. Dickson1959Finished: November 13th, 2008 I am a fan of military science fiction, or at least the concept behind it. I have read “Starship Troopers” by Heinlein, “The Forever War” by Joe Haldeman, “Ender’s Game” and “Ender’s Shadow” by Orson Scott Card, “Trading in Danger” and “Marque and Reprisal” by Elizabeth Moon (although that isn’t 100% military SF in my opinion), and some of the “Lensman” material by E.E. Doc Smith. So it seemed inevitable that I would eventually make my
The ending, concerning Donal’s brother Mor and the fate of the villain, William of Ceta, makes no sense whatsoever.3	StorySatisfactoryGordon Dickson spins a tale about a “perfect soldier and conqueror” (developed by eugenics rather than genetics) years before Frank Herbert wrote “Dune”, but this was not the story I was interested in.
If the author had spent more time on developing the setting, and explaining William of Ceta’s plan for conquest, and Donal’s ambitions at the beginning (so we could measure his success in some way), this novel would have been excellent.
Donal is heavily involved in the rest of the series even though not a main character in other books himself, through a complicated arrangement of both time travel and virtual reincarnation -- Dickson leaning more on the mystical aspects of his grand plan which, unfortunately, never got fully realized.This series meant a lot to me as a kid, and it's frustrating both that this particular book is so underdeveloped and that the series as a whole was never completed (originally there would have been both a final book, at the chronological end of the Dorsai books, and several books placed chronologically during our own history, exploring historical figures like John Milton and a mercenary named Sir John Hawkwood, as well as in our own contemporary period).
It was a celebration of what I was looking for in Science Fiction at the time.So, when I saw the audio version on audible.com, I thought it would be fun to relive all of that.It turns out, I’m not twelve any more.
The plot is still clever and the pace is still brisk but how had I not seen how shallow the characters were, how ridiculously male-dominated the book was, how morally bankrupt the politics was and how dishonestly bloodless the fighting was?“Dorsai!” is well read by Stefan Rudnicki and offers a pleasant way to while away the hours.
I'm still in recovery from the eyerolling that happened for the last chapter of this book.
Donal Graeme, of the planet Dorsai(!), is an intuitive superman.
He's so awesome that everyone else's ideas are dumb and he just intuitively knows the right course of action.
She of course, as a Woman, can appreciate this without understanding it (paraphrase, not extrapolation, of a quote from the book).Mary Fucking Mother Of God. Fuck.
I couldn't wait to be done.If you are into reading contrived tactical puzzles where Donal intuits his way out perfectly, this might be the book for you.
This book is touted as the foundation of many modern military science fiction novels--really, the beginnings of a new genre within sci fi.As for the story itself, it is well-paced, with characters who are interesting but not fully formed. We get glimpses of the various settled worlds and their unique societies, but we don't get an in-depth understanding of any of them. The main character, Donal Graeme, is a mystery to himself and others. His meteoric rise in interstellar military ranks drives the plot as much as his journey to discover and accept what makes him different from others.
If you can forgive the oddly excited title this one is a hidden gem.
I'm not familiar enough with the publishing history to be sure, but I suspect that first chapter was written before the rest and is what got Dickson published in Astounding Science Fiction.
Perhaps more impressively, I had not realized how much this book must have impacted later writers and genre classics (view spoiler)[Dune is the most obvious.
If I had read this when it was originally published in 1959, I probably would have thought it the greatest science fiction ever written.
It's always a danger to re-read books that you like. For the Childe Cycle at least I have very uneven memories. This one seems like a strong echo of Tactics of Mistake which had been a favorite. But not bad. It has all the pieces of Dorsai that I remember - the philosophizing, the military conflict, the differences in who man could become. It's a little stilted. And the vision of future gender roles could certainly have been different. But not a bad start.
It is somewhat episodic, betraying its original serialized form, and action overshadows character, but who cares, we like Donal Graeme just fine.
It sounds like Dickson was setting up a sequel about Donal; I haven't read any of the sequels (or prequels), so I don't know whether he continues this line of thought or not.
(Don't know why I missed it when I was devouring sci-fi in the 60s.)3 stars because it's pretty good for what it is, but not something I'm likely to go back and re-read.
This book caught my interest because it was said that it, together with Starship Troopers, is considered as a classic that are responsible for the rise of military science fiction.
For most of the book there was really not any real development of neither story nor character, it just went from one assignment to another which, of course, Donal managed with apparent ease.Second, for being considered as being cause of the rise of military science fiction there was not really that much hard code military material and a lot of it was naïve and nonsensical.
При избора си на книга за четене, най-вече се вслушвам в препоръките на познатите си и много рядко започвам да чета нещо, което никой не ми е казал, че харесва или мрази.
Сега реших да оставя малко съдбата да понареди списъка ми за четене и с нейна помощ избрах тази книга от всички, които имам, но нямам намерение да чета.
Книгата не можа да ми предложи нищо, което да си заслужава да бъде препоръчано или препрочетено – историите са подобни на всички онези, на които съм се нагледал във фантастичните и военните филми.
A product of the 1950s (and earlier) science-fiction style where one man can do anything and everything. Is Donal a "superman" with incredible intuition or is he the luckiest man in the galaxy or are his enemies that ignorant/stupid? Very preachy when going into the question "Are men people or property?" Book has a very bad habit of jumping to the conclusion of a conflict before revealing any prior knowledge of what the main character knows. Shows that it is one of the grandfathers of military sci-fi.
This is my last "official" book for the WWE 50's challenge, but I still have 4 books left to finish the 20 book I chose for the challenge. Although the book was only 176 pages, I was snagged in this novel. I do have to say that I am starting to get a bit tired by the Uber misogynistic of the stories in this decade, but I still really enjoyed most of the books I read. It seems the last couple pages made very little sense in comparison to the rest of the novel.3 out of 5 stars
Not sure this one makes a lot of sense anymore. I can see why it was appealing in 1960, but doesn't even stand up to other novels written that year.http://www.staffersbookreview.com/201...
It is not a novel. It is comics without pictures.
I don't know how much work Dickson did to make the novel, but the serial format is still somewhat clearly visible -- and for me, it's a detractor.Rather than a clear, thoughtful narrative about its protagonist, we get a series of somewhat choppy vignettes showing, in a somewhat abrupt way, his rise.
Then the book ends!But Dickson does a great job in illustrating the world of Dorsai; one in which humanity has fragmented across a number of worlds and specialties, where the currency is not only money, but skill.
The one positive thing was that it took me until the very end to realize how much I hated this book.Getting there wasn’t exactly smooth sailing, you can shatter a narrative only so much before the reader looses interest, but there was some capital the author created.
That fell apart with the final revelation so insultingly stupid that it became personal.The story was published first in a magazine and it shows, with chapters jumping years ahead and helpfully titled with the current title the hero uses.
That makes the book a disjointed collection of vignettes and not a coherent story, which becomes a problem once you realize there is nothing creating suspense.
(Childe Cycle Book 1)" several times, now (though the last time was probably 30 years ago) and I still find it to be a good book.
Of course, its big draw is the fact that it's the first book in Dickson's 10 book "Childe Cycle." Be aware that since the book was written back in 1960, the female roles aren't exactly awe-inspiring.
But, those were the times and I certainly don't hold it against the book.
So, we don't really get any time to plumb his depths (or those of any other characters).
Still, I enjoy the book and am rating it at a Very Good 4 stars out of 5.
Dorsai! dates to 1959 and predates Dune and Stranger in a Strange Land. It is fantastic, albeit slowly developing and nuanced. Given that this is the story of a hero the big picture outcome is predictable but not the basis for that outcome which, while demonstrated and considered throughout the book, only are discussed in the final scene. That final scene simultaneously resolves the story of the first book while creating astounding possibilities for the second book, a book I am starting as soon as I finish this review.
I'll have to revisit this book in the future. On this pass, I found myself only intermittently interested in the story and characters. The world building was interesting, but I never really got a good handle on the greater setting. That said, I think this may be more a function of where I'm at rather than any flaw of the book.
I remember reading this series in my youth in the 1960s. I don't remember much about it other than I enjoyed it. I was glad to be able hear it today read by Stefan Rednicki. Of course like any of this classic author's works it is deep with a twist in the end that generally goes over my head. I must have been a lot smarter when I was young to have understood it then. I barely understand now.
I wish I had read this in my youth, since I no longer have a taste for Military Sci-Fi. Ten Page DNF. I detected nothing new here: chosen one from an unlikely family, on an unlikely planet, residing in an unlikely universe.
Classic greatness Dickson’s idea of military story is reminiscent of chess. Quiet, thoughtful and full of variety. I’ve heard it compared to Heinlein’s Starship troopers, but having read both I think they both missed the problem of war; there are no winners.
