https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71864.The_Dead_of_Night
boof - reading these quick books to cleanse the brain-palate before diving into proust4 means i get awful far behind in my reviewing!
and she isn't particularly likable, which is refreshing - she does all sorts of unheroic things and thinks petty thoughts - and i think that is a good thing - too many books for youngsters have this unrealistic golden-child character - it is totally off-putting.all of the characters are well-drawn, and i enjoy the range of skills and behaviors they exhibit; they are very realistic teens responding to a horrifying situation.there are several good plot progressions here - a couple of things i did not see coming, and the way they are becoming acclimated to their new reality is wonderful - a nice slow burn thing happening here.
I read the first book in this series over a month ago, and really liked how Hunger Games reminiscent it was.
This book is the second in the Tomorrrow series and continues on from the closing events of book one.
Some of the events that take place in both books one and two are quite brutal, but clearly show the means of taking risks just to survive.
I will be putting this series on hold for the time being as I am generally unsure that I would like to continue on with it.
I’m gonna go read up right now on which plants I can eat and which ones will kill me.”Not that I don’t enjoy the occasional nature activity, it is just that my first reaction to being asked to go camping/kayaking/hiking is suddenly getting The Lemonheads “I Lied About Being the Outdoor Type” stuck in my head.
The number of kids in Ellie's crew is much more manageable this time around and it allowed me to finally feel like I had a handle on who was who and their individual personalities.
I also enjoyed the introduction of the adult counterpart to Ellie's camp in the completely inept Harvey's Heroes.
But the gang decide they can’t sit around forever: they need more supplies for living in Hell, and they want to see if Corrie’s OK, and they need to take some action against the army that invaded their land, took over their homes, and took their families prisoner.This book is much slower than Tomorrow, When the War Began.
Sure, in the end our heroes get a move on and cause the destruction suitable for the climax, but it’s after a lot of running for their lives and debating murder in wartime.
First Read: February 6th 2010  Re-read: February 27th 2018 The second novel of the Tomorrow series written by John Marsden, it continues and picks up right where the first book ended.
In the wake of losing Corrie and Kevin, and not knowing how either of them are faring in enemy territory, the group's morale deteriorates.
Homer suggests the group attempt to track down Corrie and Kevin.
They discover that Corrie is comatose and that Kevin was beaten when he arrived.From the second book i think this series just got better and better with all the twist and turns that the book had in store.
I quite enjoyed this second instalment in the Tomorrow series.
I will admit, both books have been incredibly difficult to get into.
I find myself bored and uninterested until about 50-100 pages into it, and then I cannot put them down.
That's about the only flaw I can give these books.This was raw and real, I loved the way things are unfolding and the new things that happened in this book.
I really enjoyed that these teenagers are still dealing with teenage issues on top of the adult issues they are dealing with.
I just think these are incredibly well written and realistic dystopians for something that came out over 20 years ago.
Plot summary: Following the invasion of Australia, Ellie and her friends are back in their secret valley, Hell, and dealing with the loss they suffered at the end of Tomorrow, When the War Began.
Anger at themselves and the actions they've taken.
Anger at the invaders and the colonists.
But so much of that anger, that "why are they here?", that "it's OUR land" attitude could be equally applicable to a story about a group of Indigenous Australians hiding out from European colonists.
It has a wonderful mix of the every day and guerilla action - despite the war, life is still the same as it ever was.
SPOILERFREE REVIEW (as long as you know what happens in Tomorrow, When the War Began) Plot  (the first book)Eight teenagers go camping in the bush, when they come back, their country is invaded and war is about to break out. Now they have to fight to win back their homes. Stuff I Want To Get Out Of My Head Okay, first off: I have not read the first book Tomorrow When The War Began, only watched the movie (I KNOW, I KNOW)Everyone who's read the book (or watched the movie), knows that it ends in a
SPOILERFREE REVIEW (as long as you know what happens in Tomorrow, When the War Began)
Still, I wanted to find out what happened after Corrie and Kevin drove off to the hospital.
Because the back of the book literally spoiled what happened with Corrie and Kevin!
I mean, I think if I was into war books, I would probably love this.
This would be awesome!There are so many badass things happening in this book, and it's also pretty short -> perfect movie material!In a nutshell: Not my favourite genre, sorry.
Maybe I'm biased being an Aussie girl who read this and all of the others in high school and because John Marsden was the very first author who I ever had the pleasure of doing a writing workshop with (lol I was in the ninth grade and was thrilled to be forced to write two paragraphs without using the letter 'A' under his instruction) or maybe it's just because this is straight-up story telling magic….
I know that John Marsden wrote this as a nod to the action/adventure stories that he'd read as a kid, after having noticed that there was a lull in the market for that sort of thing at the time, and I am so grateful to him for it.
The Dead of the Night sees us return to Hell with Ellie and her friends as they struggle to come to terms with the great loss they endured at the end of Tomorrow When the War Began.
It is a story about moral choices, about finding the courage to put yourself at risk time and again and most importantly, it is about endurance.Ellie, Homer, Lee, Robyn, Fi and Chris all return to Hell.
Truly, a page turner The Dead of Night has been yet again gasping for the next book in the Tomorrow series.
THE DEAD OF NIGHT is the second book in the amazing Tomorrow Series.
It picks up where TOMORROW, WHEN THE WAR BEGAN ends and is just as exciting!Ellie and her friends continue to battle against unknown invaders.
Even though they are sticking close to home, they feel they are contributing to the fight and causing the enemy some hardship.In an attempt to locate an alternate escape route out of Hell, the teens stumble upon what appears to be a base camp of some sort.
She doesn’t particularly like how the women of the camp are treated though.
Shit dog. Not very often I like the second book in a series more than the first.
Interesting note, apparently New Zealand has been very helpful in this war. Coming immediately to the aid of Australia and fighting for her. Really? All I know about New Zealand/Australia relations comes from Flight of the Conchords and they gave the impression they were not fond of Australia and thought they were “subtlety mocking their accents” whenever speaking with an Australian. I really enjoyed the first book in the Tomorrow series but you know how 2nd books can be a bit lame? Dead of Nigh
I do not know what I would do if Canada ever was invaded, I feel like we have this security of being right next to the USA and USA would be all “Hell No” to our invaders.
But the book is right I cannot tell you how upset I was with the injustice of it all, people being taken off their property, being held prisoner.
I feel ridiculous when I say these things, war is not a tea party I know this.
It has been a couple of months since the invasion of Australia and the group of committed teenagers decide that they've had enough of sitting around waiting for something to happen and instead band together to change their dire situation.The Dead of the Night contains many of the familiar elements we came across in the first book - action, adventure, survival, and a little romance, but I thought it was much more powerful in some ways as we have got to know each character.
I definitely remembered Harvey's Heroes, though I didn't think they would be introduced until later in the series (view spoiler)[(and I definitely remembered them enough that when they were going to go blow up the tank I was silently screaming "IT'S A TRAP" the entire time up until the trap was revealed) (hide spoiler)] 8'DI believe that this book may have had my favourite bit of guerrilla tactics from Ellie and Co, at least from memory.
I'm really looking forward to reading Book 3 and see where they go next, because from here out I think I'll be going mostly blind in regards to what's still to come in this series.
This entry is very similar in plot to the first entry, with the kids sizing up and taking down a target within the invaders base, but this time we get to hear a little more about who these invaders actually are, although still not enough to feel like we have actually learnt anything.
I still don't know if I'm enjoying these as I enjoyed them when I was younger, or they are generally books that anyone could enjoy...but with the 'Hunger Games' being such a big presence now, I can't imagine anyone enjoying that and not liking this series.
The adventurous, action filled novel begins a couple of weeks after the devastating events of that concluded the last book.
The brief brake between both books really added a good effect as you basically pick up from where you last left off in the first book.While the first book showed the shock of the attack, this shows the characters beginning to come to terms with it.
The adventurous, war set plot really added to the overall effect of the book, where as if it was just like a typical war plot, it would not appeal to me as much as it did.
The only issue I had was with the ending which ramped up in similar fashion to the previous book.
As a continuation this book gets everything right, Marsden builds on the character depth, something lacking from the first book.
I've got tiny little gripes but in the overall storytelling side of things this franchise has room to breath and characters that are still growing up and having to fend for themselves in wartime.
I have the next book and will start it today, this might be the first novel franchise I read back to back.
In the first book you saw some action (view spoiler)[ how the group rescues Lee (amazing), or how they blow up a bridge (hide spoiler)]. In this one, the are more action scenes and they are more exciting (view spoiler)[ they are going to find sneak to the hospital to see Corrie, attack a convoy, find and lose a group of free Australians (Harvey’s Heroes), and finally arrange an attack to a military residence area (hide spoiler)]. The action scenes are described in a way which is better than a mo
In the first book you saw some action (view spoiler)[ how the group rescues Lee (amazing), or how they blow up a bridge  (hide spoiler)].
In this one, the are more action scenes and they are more exciting (view spoiler)[ they are going to find sneak to the hospital to see Corrie, attack a convoy, find and lose a group of free Australians (Harvey’s Heroes), and finally arrange an attack to a military residence area  (hide spoiler)].
The love story does not keep up with her: I do not really know how is Lee nor why Ellie likes him (apart from him being handsome).
Which left the story unfinished and I felt I wanted to know what was going to happen.
So I’ve now completed book 2; The Dead of the Night.
I actually preferred this book over the first, the innocence of the kids is now gone, while still having to struggle against the enemy that now have to struggle with sexual desire too (actually I don’t think the struggled they just ‘hopped on’…so to speak).
The main protagonist Ellie has ended up killing a man and there is the remorse going on in her head while everyone else seems to think she would be ok killing again.
SO INTENSE
Spot on 5/5 starsThis series is so good and told is such a splendid way. It's very hard to put the book down because you want to know what happens on the next page, in the next chapter and on the last page. Not to mention the next book! Ellie and the gang have become my dear friends and I can't wait to see them wreck some havoc again in the third book.If you haven't picked up this series yet, I 110% recommend you do!
I read this series when I was at school originally and have always liked it. Revisiting it now, being older, I appreciate it a little more. Its by no stretch literary genius. It does fit nicely into the “easy-to-read” category. I can somewhat connect with characters. Put myself in the scenario and for those reasons I enjoy it.There are down sides. Such as glaring coincidences and things that just wouldn’t happen. But you have to talk your mind out of that and just enjoy it. Gotta enjoy the little thing.
The second in the Tomorrow trilogy did not disappoint. The action continues. The characters develop. More enemies appear. Sometimes I find book 2 of any series to be dull, but this one kept the pace. Carry on with your Aussie talk and dystopian teenage love stories.
4,5 leuke serie nieuwsgierig naar volgend deel.
Me encanto el final, exactamente como a mí me gustan💞 no sé por qué tarde tanto en leerlo por qué amo esta saga y aparte es un libro corto.
Actually pretty good, a little bit of second book itis but the filler was entertaining. Quick, easy read and loving the development of all the characters.
In the second book of the series, they find out what happened to Corrie and Kevin; encounter a group of adult survivors; burn some more things; and cope with the effects of war.
He never fails in finding crazy ideas or keeping the group going.Fi tries to be brave, having been removed from the hugely privileged life she had before the war.
There's no denying that he's a genius.Harvey's Heroes, the group of adults that the gang find off the creak from Hell, provided a different perspective on the war.
Harvey's Heroes have congratulated themselves on their efforts--meager when compared to the achievements of the teenage gang of 8/6/5.The ending was explosive--literally!
They have experience with firearms and bush survival, but in this book their vulnerabilities also come through, as they widen the area in which they travel, try to find out more about what has happened to their country, and the bonds that tie them together become even stronger through their shared experiences.There is as much action as the first book, although there is also a lot of focus on the relationships between some of the characters, and finding out more about them as individuals.One point I feel I have to make about this book (and in fact the whole series), and it doesn't matter so much to me because I spent the first twenty-five years of my life in Australia, is that there is a fair smattering of Australian slang throughout the book.
After reading this book I understand how the series can go on for seven books, it just progresses incredibly slowly.All the characters are okay.
There wasn’t as much interesting survival in this book; there were more conflicts between the characters and lots of discussion about how to make a difference to the war effort.Ellie rehashes her feelings over and over again; feelings about killing, about violence, and about how the rest of the world is reacting.
Most of the questions asked in the first book remain largely unanswered.Overall this was an okay addition to the series but I probably won't read any more of this series.
