https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64865.B_is_for_Burglar
I listened to this one on Audio and am not sure whether that affected how much I enjoyed the book. The narrator chose to read Kinsey as a very brisk, managing type of person and I felt she did not really do her justice. Nevertheless I enjoyed the story with its twists and turns and surprises. The ending was neat and not idealistic - like real life! I would have liked to give this three and a half stars and will certainly be carrying on with the series.

I’m really enjoying this series! Kinsey Milhone is a great character, independent and clever. I like the way she thinks and analyses the world. I like the fact it’s set in the 80s, a decade I remember well- how mobiles and PCs were in the future, the groundwork for private investiigators having to be done the hard way, unable to text or phone for help in tight spots, hand written index cards to keep your notes on...and I like the fact I really didn’t guess what was going on until it was spelled out for me! Recommended.
The actual mystery was quite well done, except for (view spoiler)[ the murder weapon which was a window sash weight.
You have to pull the window trim off to get to the damn things & this was a well planned murder.
(hide spoiler)] There was no value in having them except to get Kinsey & the murderer into the house together for the blow out.
To top it off, Kinsey goes into the house (view spoiler)[ with a crowbar & uses it to uncover the murder weapon, then puts it in a plastic bag & stashes it out of reach.
Sugar helps, and divorces might too, of which she’s had a few, even if she’s only in her mid-thirties, and her smile might be an easier pill to swallow, if the mystery didn’t feel as though it was a bit forced.Her male counterparts may lack in development, and end up a bit too lean on their stocky frames with hard noses and hard attitudes, and a lack of conviction, and possibly convention as well.
The mystery felt undernourished, and could probably have used a bit more flourish.
Review  3.5 stars but I'm going to round down (since I sometimes round up for this author, and I suppose this makes it balance out a bit!) for the second book in the "Kinsey Millhone" [cozy] mystery series by Sue Grafton. In B is for Burglar, we get to know Kinsey more, figuring out what she likes and doesn't like. And apparently she is a bit picky when it comes to client. First, she doesn't want to take the case as it is too simple and sounds like a waste of her time. But when she digs a bit
3.5 stars but I'm going to round down (since I sometimes round up for this author, and I suppose this makes it balance out a bit!) for the second book in the "Kinsey Millhone" [cozy] mystery series by Sue Grafton.
I kept forgetting the time period, which is important in cases like these, given the available tools.If you're going to read the whole series take the time in these first few books to really synchronize with the time period, so you are not out of your element.But Kinsey is a great main character.
Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544]	[polldaddy poll=9719251]
Reread in honor of Sue Grafton's passing, may she R.I.P. The mystery at the heart of B is for Burglar kept me guessing right up until when Kinsey figures it out.
Things like when on a stakeout, Kinsey wonders who she might call if things get out of control, but then decides that it doesn't matter because "the nearest pay phone is several miles away".
I read the first few books of this series along with my Mom as they came out, starting in 1984, and we loved discussing them.
That they featured a female P.I. was novel at that time and we loved the books, eagerly anticipating each installment.
After surviving almost being murdered in the first book, Kinsey is still dealing with having to take a life.
And we get our first glimpse at Jonah Robb and his never ending messy marriage to Camilla.I really loved B is for Burglar.
I was wondering where Grafton was going to take things next the first time I read this.
My re-read was great, cause Grafton sets things up nicely.The setting of this one is Santa Teresa, but Kinsey also goes back and forth to Florida.
The ending leaves Kinsey slightly worse for wear, but alive and kicking.
But I have read better mysteries and I suspect in a year or two I will scratch my head and wonder what was this book about?The one thing that will remain for sure is the main character - Kinsey Millhone - private investigator in Santa Teresa, a typical (read imaginary) California town in the 1980's.
She's also capable of name dropping Anna Magnani, Jeanne Moreau, Simone Signoret in casual conversation, always a plus to a film buff like me.As far as  B for Burglar  is concerned, it starts like one of Raymond Chandler novels, with one smooth lady hiring Kinsey to find her missing sister.
Or maybe I've read too many mystery novels.
I figured out what was going very early on so no mystery there but it was an entertaining listen nonetheless.
B is for BurglarI've had this series of books on my book shelf for years now and I really don't know what took me so long to start reading them. To be honest I'm lucky in a way because I now have a whole lot of books to read. What a great start to this series, I love Kinsey and I can't wait to see what other cases she has to get in to.
That's an issue when your preferred spot for light reading is at the kitchen table of a small apartment where people are always wandering in and out wondering aloud where various lost items are.
I love being swallowed whole by a book as much as anyone, but kitchen-table reads are important, too.
I also like the trip-down-memory-lane aspect of the books.
Pregnant women doing sit-ups.
Genuine surprise at the idea that women actually do all kinds of jobs now.
("They got women sheriffs these days, did you know that?
As opposed to my mother occasionally making references to "authoresses," which kind of makes me cry.)4.
Book on CD performed by Mary PeifferBook two in the mystery series featuring private investigator Kinsey Millhone of Santa Teresa, California.
Kinsey figures this will be fairly routine, so she takes the job.
But a trip to Boca Raton, Florida only raises more questions about the missing woman, and Mrs Danziger is upset when Kinsey suggests filing an official missing persons report with the police.I like this series.
Kinsey is a smart, resourceful woman who takes her job seriously and doesn’t rely on some strong handsome type to come along and save her.
Mary Peiffer does a fine job performing the audio version.
AudiobookAfter the author's death was announced I thought I'd work through her series of books.
Why yell after you're attacked?
Every normal person who is looking for a missing person would open it to see where the missing person had been, but no you wait until the author gives the villain a chance to steal the mail many days later.
I've read reviews where they state the series became worse toward the middle and finally got as good as the beginning stories toward the end.
If this is good, how much worse could it get?
The formula has been set, Kinsey will continue solving cases, sticking her nose in where it doesn't belong and mulling things out in her head along the way. She's got quite a dry sense of humor and is a bit brave too. With this one I couldn't quite work out the mystery myself but let's face it, I'm not alone in saying that I would never have guessed the murder weapon!!
Kinsey Millhone takes a case to find a missing woman. On first glance, it appears to be an easy case and Kinsey needs the money, so she takes the job. Needless to say, it's a tougher case than it first appeared to be.The second book in the Kinsey Millhone series. Kinsey is still a smart and spunky PI who likes to work alone. This book was first published in the early 1980s, so it was fun to take a trip back to the eighties and read a nice, solid mystery. I listened to an audio version of this book.
Its a quick, easy read. Junk-food-for-the-brain. I like Kinsey Millhone. I wish that we had a sidekick or two. Hopefully that is coming in future volumes.
B done! I knew Pat was weird...
So I'm a little late to this party. The series is almost? finished and I've just read my first. Really enjoyed it and I can understand why the series has been such a success. Great characters, solid plot with twists, red herrings, and surprises.
Here we go again! In the second book of the Kinsey Millhone alphabet mysteries, Kinsey is once again on the move. This time she is flying back between Florida and California to search for a woman by the name of Elaine Boldt. Her sister is looking for her to sign some papers that require immediate attention. However, Kinsey discovers that there might be some other events that may be connected to Elaine’s disappearances as well.As you can guess by the title, the book does involve some burglaries
However, Kinsey discovers that there might be some other events that may be connected to Elaine’s disappearances as well.As you can guess by the title, the book does involve some burglaries and this is where things start to get a little bloodier.
As Kinsey tries to find out how exactly all these situations line up with Elaine’s disappearance, readers get a better look at the workings of her mind.
All I kept thinking about while listening to this audio was how awesome it would be if this series was made into a TV series.I also wanted to briefly mention that this book can be read as a standalone.

I hope that these books get better.
This book wasn't so much bad as it was pointless and boring, at least to me.
I feel like we are supposed to think she is this cool,quirky, bad ass but she comes across to me pretty much the opposite.
I'll admit this may just be me, but i don't think so.Also bad, I guessed what was going on pretty early in the book.
It actually makes me smile a bit.I am going on the the third book in the hopes that as Sue Grafton goes along she gets better.
I enjoyed this second mystery, but not quite as much as the first.
I still found it entertaining and did not guess who had committed the murder.
I'm enjoying "getting to know" Kinsey Millhone and keep thinking of my mother-in-law each time I read one of these.
This mystery begins with a new client asking Kinsey to locate her sister to sign a legal document to facilitate the processing of a relative's will & subsequent inheritance.
Events escalate from there and the cast of characters surrounding this case has everyone as a potential suspect for a local murder.
(Some spoilers) 2.5⭐'S. Read the series this year as part of book club challenge. Was not too enthusiastic about the first book, 'A', as the writing and story/plot development was amateurish. The writing seems to be getting better however, someone really should tell Ms. Grafton her "nonessential filler' does not an interesting book make. I feel setting description is essential to a story line; there are clues that could attribute to the entire story. However, is it really necessary to add descri
Read the series this year as part of book club challenge.
Was not too enthusiastic about the first book, 'A', as the writing and story/plot development was amateurish.
The writing seems to be getting better however, someone really should tell Ms. Grafton her "nonessential filler' does not an interesting book make.
However, is it really necessary to add descriptive minutia about her character's personal daily activities not pertinent the story?
Anyways....this time around I was more engaged in the story.
Me thinks, as the author eludes, "....the story's not over yet!"
I hate to say it, I'm eating my words from my first review.
She takes a negative tone to everyone she meets and calls them fat, old, too beautiful, anal or there is something wrong with everyone she meets, it's a skewed way to view life.
She is terrified for getting in trouble with CFI, yet she was celebrating over that fact that she almost took a life.
She also seems to like to eat disgusting food.
I liked the story, even though the characters were not so deep, they were deeper than Kinsey.
I liked how the story came together, it was smart.
It seems a relatively straightforward matter, so much so that Millhone is not sure Beverly needs a PI, but she agrees to take the case.Things are not as easy as they seem however, as Millhone can find no trace of Elaine anywhere in Florida, although she does find a woman called Pat Usher, who claims Elaine agreed to let her sublet the Boca Raton apartment where Elaine lived while she was off travelling.
Millhone suspects there is a link between Elaine's disappearance and the death of her Santa Teresa neighbour, Marty Grice, who was apparently killed by burglars who then set fire to the Grice home a week before Elaine left.
Because it started with a missing person case, I found this to be even slower in progress compared to first book. Of course, later on, Kinsey realized the missing person was related to a homicide victim but I guess by then my full interest has slightly dwindled. Oh and I totally guess the whole twist and the villain before Kinsey did. Yay me.
a great read... Kinsey has spunk!
B is for Burglar is very easy to figure out but the ride is still enjoyable as watch Kinsey solve the case.
I don’t feel like the author hid anything from the readers and that we had just as much information as Kinsey.
I don’t like books where I feel the main character has more information than the reader.
I like it when the reader has just as good of a chance to crack the case as the detective does.
I don’t know if I can listen to another book narrated by Judy Kaye because in my mind there is no other voice for Kinsey.
Some of the mysteries are easier to read, staying with the one main theme while others can be confusing with too many stories going on at one time.
Dead bodies do occur although usually not as brutally as in other contemporary novels and this is a fun treat compared the very graphic reads (not that I'm overly squeamish when it comes to blood & guts.) Grafton has a fun, quick moving style of writing that keeps a story moving.
In fact her main character, Kinsey Millhone, looks at life and herself in a rather humorous way.
