https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124003.A_History_of_the_English_Language
Old English conjugated them as "hie," "hiera," "him."--In fact, the Danish invasions of England prior to the Norman Conquest probably contributed a lot more to our loss of inflection (word endings) than the French influence on our language ever did.
While we "borrowed" a lot of words from the Norman French, we adapted our syntax to the Scandinavian model, so that our language became much simpler in terms of inflection compared to say, German or Latin.
Basically, this text confirms that English is an ever-changing, ever-living language, growing and morphing, adapting and revising itself according to the needs and circumstances of those who speak it.
This book cycles through the entire history of the English language, from the proto-Indo European start to its modern day variations. For everyone who thinks that our language is as simple as "English is a mix of German and French," you have SO much to learn. A favorite non-fiction.
unlike my professor, this book actually makes sense
10% informative, 90% snooze fest.
This was a good book; I wish I had the latest edition rather than this edition from the early 1990's.
The language has changed since the introduction of the Internet and texting which wasn't an issue at the time this version came out.
I think I may have had this version since it was new, though.
I just now got around to reading it in it's entirety.Very informative.
Some chapters were more interesting than others.
I liked the chapters on Old English and also on American English.Always something to learn, so I keep expanding my knowledge of my own langauge.
Languages are alive and amazing.
Read this for a college course (and basically had to memorize the contents). It was one of my most challenging - and rewarding - classes. Baugh shows how language is elastic, bending and changing and morphing as time, history and cultural influences force and/or influence written and verbal exchanges.
I'm putting this on here because it may be one of the first honest-to-god textbooks that I actually read all the way through. It feels like an accomplishment.
An incredibly easy-to-read but detailed account of the whole history of the English language, divided into three parts: Old, Middle, and Modern English.
I read this book three times in one semester as an undergrad in the 1980s for a really hard class. I LOVED IT--both the class and the book.
I read this in a college class and really enjoyed it. It might be a bit dry to read in its entirety, but pick it up for some fascinating anecdotes about the history of our language.
My college text--and still the standard by which others must be measured. The complexity of the English language is a thing of beauty.
It gives a really in-depth view of all the cultural and political influences that shaped the English language to what it is today. Kind of nice to read if you have the time and interest for these kind of things.
English language,linguistics
Syllabus book...always hate them.
Totally a book I had to read for college - but if you ever said, "Why is this a word?" then this book is fun. And if you are nerdy - this book is fun.
One of the few history books I've actually enjoyed. It starts at the very beginning of English language and goes up to today-ish and English in America. A wonderful read.
এইটা একটা পাঠযবই, আর পাঠযবইয়ের শাসন-বারণ কি আসলে ঐভাবে করা যায়? সমালোচনার সমালোচনা করাই ত কঠিন, পাঠযবইয়ের কষেতরে ত এইসব পরায় অসমভব ঠেকে আমার -এমনিতে ভালো বই। কিছু গুরূতবপূরণ আলোচনা আসছে, যেমন ইংরেজি যে আসতে আসতে সিনথেটিক বিষয়াশয়, মানে কি না বিভকতিগুলিরে, ছেটে ফেলে একটু একটু করে অযানালিটিক হয়ে গেছে, বাকযবিনযাসরে পুরা সুসথিত করে ফেলেছে - বাংলায় যেটার বালাই নাই - এই বিষয়টার ইতিহাস ভালো লাগার মতই। এই সমসত কারণেই পরথম দিকটা, মোটামুটি ষোড়শ শতাবদী পরযনত, আমার জনয একটা দণডবৎ থরিলার। পুরান ইংরিজি আর মধযয

Even to one who is not a student of history or linguistics, this book is accessible, and from it I learnt a lot. It is unsurprising that it is known as a standard text of the history of the English Language. Its chronological approach is appropriate, and feels very much like a well-crafted narrative that takes you on a flight from Celtic times, roaming over Beowulf, to Chaucer's Cantebury Tales, to Shakespeare. A highly enjoyable read which I would recommend to anyone who possesses the slightest of interest in our cosmopolitan language.
মাথা নষট, তালগোল পাকায়া দেওয়া এক বই :/
মাথা নষ্ট, তালগোল পাকায়া দেওয়া এক বই :/
I have no idea why I marked this to read while I actually read and studied it four years ago. Wonderful book
Excellent mix of history and the technical evolution of the English language. The accompanying workbook provided helpful exercises to understand the linguistic aspect of the language.

If, for any reason, you find yourself wanting or needing to read Baugh and Cable's A History of the English Language, I'd advise you against using the Sixth Edition. It blurs details that earlier editions are much more clear about, re-arranges chapters that were better organized before, and since it doesn't address really recent evolutions in the language, you really aren't missing anything by using an earlier, clearer edition. The sixth one just isn't great.
Buku ini bikin kepala keputer puter walaupun isinya berguna (untuk kegiatan kuliah). Bahsa yang digunakan diluar kebiasaan saya. Tapi dilain sisi isi buku ini emang menarik buat di baca buat kamu yg curious tentang sejarah bahasa inggris atau emang kamu mahasiswa sastra inggris
I had this as a textbook for my all-time favorite class at university. Its the most in depth examination of the English language that I have seen. It's equal parts history and linguistics and it's thoroughly readable.
This is one of the few textbooks that I have read in its entirety in a long time. It was fantastic, though, offering an expansive and entertaining look at just what the title describes, a history of the English language from early Germanic roots through modern dialogues.
Most consistently interesting and engaging "textbook" I've had to read. History and linguistics meshed together.
loved it
good stuff. suitable for an undergraduate course. works through the basic periodizations with rigor.
referential but big and rough for students !
