https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/950245.Pioneers_of_Modern_Design
Then again surely the context might easily be blamed for Pevsner not lingering on such sensitive questions.Last but not least, any lover of modernism will be delighted to read such a history written by a militantly unapologetic “defender of the faith.” Writing in the thirties, at a time where he could still claim with a straight face a status of pioneer for his historical endeavour, the author radiates a candid confidence in the principles of modernist design, in the ‘style of today’ as he likes to call it.
Exhibited as an influence in Terence Conran: The Way We Live Now.
I've recently gained a new level of appreciation for William Morris and found a reference to this book in a bibliography. What a great find! This is considered a classic work, and in the 2005 addition is complemented by commentary from Richard Weston. I am clearly a novice in architecture and art, but I could follow the argumentation and learned from the wealth of exemplary photographs and art designs. Give it a try if you have a high comfort level with academic writing.
Two stars is generous for this wordy and poorly illustrated book that has a poor chronology. It is annoying when the author talks about items extensively that are not illustrated or with illustrations that lack scope. The subject is great. I am a big fan of Morris, Wright and Klimt, to name a few, but I will try another text to get a better understanding of what lead up to the modern movement.Don't waste your time or money on this one.
I may be reading this for class, but I like it enough to put it on here. It's an interesting take on art history, not a textbook.Edit: This is pretty much all you need if you're interested in modern design. I don't always necessary agree with him but he has a certain way of putting things that is pretty endearing. I wish he was still alive just so I could see what he'd write about postmodernism. Actually, he'd probably have a heart attack about it.
Another book read for class that I likely would not have chosen, I ended up enjoying this one more than most. The arc of its argument seemed easier to understand than most, looking at how the arts and Crafts movement and Art Nouveau came together with other ideas to create modernism, all from an English perspective. Additionally, the book piqued my interest due to the subject matter of two movements that I
Very good book treating developments around architecture and design during the 19th and early 20th century, up to early modernity. This has been the most important period for shaping the future of our mass-manufactured world, where we are now slowly climbing out of, entering the 3rd Industrial Revolution.
I read this before studying in Paris and it was a gorgeous read. It certainly opened my eyes to architecture that I would otherwise just walk past. I recommend this to students of art history and also to those who are about to travel to Western European cosmopolitan areas.Read it with google handy to enhance your experience. Look up what you don't understand or recognize. Great resource!
-
This book was originally published in 1936, and the copy I'm reading was revised and rewritten in 1960. I love reading about modern design's beginnings from someone who is living in that era. :)
A classic, but very dated and heavy-handed.
A helpful introduction to modern design. Not brilliantly written but still fascinating and informative.
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1W...
