https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/274607.The_Store
This book should be required reading for everyone in America.
An unflinching portrayal of race relations in the deep south after The Civil War and during the Reconstruction Era, it holds no punches.
With the end of the Civil War and slavery, Colonel Miltiades Vaiden has lost his jobs as the overseer of a cotton plantation, a Confederate Army officer, and a Ku Klux Klan leader.
He has virtually no redeeming qualities and I hated and was disgusted by him for the entirety of the book, yet I couldn't stop reading.
In short, this book is pretty much the complete opposite of "The Help."
"The Store" is the second book in a trilogy by Tom (T.S.) Stribling.It has a cast of wonderfully fla
#149of2012I'm not surprised the way black people were still being treated 20 years after the Civil War here.
It's almost like nothing changed.
I know Governor O'Shawn's character was actually Governor O'Neal not much a stretch there.
The streets he mentioned are all still here except Market Street and I think that's Court Street now but I'm not sure.
BeShear's Crossroads may be Threet's Crossroads again I'm not sure about that.
I've read that Roger's Dept store was suppose to be The Store but he denied it.
He also denied that Jerry Catlin was a self-portrait of himself.
I read some of that here http://chotank.com/astrib.html
This was a difficult book to read because it so matter-of-factly presents the racism of Reconstruction era Alabama.
In the end, he gets his test.Stribling also presents the complexities of the black community from those who embrace the Christian pulpit version of their destiny to live lives of injustice to a more enlightened view from a young woman intent on living separately from white people and educating her community.
This book was unsettling, but so is the history of inhumanity towards the black community in the South.
The Store is the 2nd book in the T.S. Stribling Vaiden series.
The rating has been raised, as a result of the fact that I'm currently about 1,500 pages into the series and am nowhere near ready for it to be over.
That's saying something.One thing that was different in this book was that there was a new fat character, and apparently her entirely personality was that of 'fat'.
Seriously, he actually wrote :"I don't know," she called back flabbily, "I might want something to eat."How exactly does a person speak 'flabbily'?
I've never read a book that makes me hate reading so much. This long miserable (Pulitzer Prize winning?!) book is perfect for you if you like casual racism and intricate plots about nothing.
This book takes place in November of 1884 as Grover Cleveland is being elected the first Democratic President since the Civil War. The book's main character is Miltiades (Milt) Vaiden a former Colonel in the Confederate Army and KKK member.
The book focuses on the post-war relations between the White former slave owners and the former slaves.
The black characters in the book are free only by law - but still acting as slaves.
The "N"-word is used pretty regularly and after a while you just accept it - this is the way they spoke.
There is much inter-relations and children between the white owners and the black women.
Fantastic book -- completely surprised me.
The Store explores love and loss, trust and betrayal, and the vagaries of reputation and fortunes of the Vaiden family, both the whites and the blacks of that name.
The store itself is a dream of Colonel Miltiades Vaiden which, once achieved, is rarely again mentioned and unimportant in the story.Vaiden, a former Colonel in the Confederate Army, had his money stolen shortly after the end of the War by J.
Handback, believing the Colonel holds no resentments, hires him to work in the Handback store.
This allows the Colonel to buy his long-dreamed of store beginning a series of repercussions throughout the full community, affecting both whites and blacks, Southerners and Yankees.
Although it seemed a bit slow at the beginning, we were soon caught up in the stories of the exquisitely drawn characters in this novel, placed in the post Civil War southern town of Florence, Alabama.
The central character, Milt Vaiden, is followed throughout as you see a man who unlike most of the white citizens of the town tries to give the negroes a "fair deal" in the stores.
I read these books aloud to Steve and some of the language, including frequent use of the N word, made that somewhat uncomfortable, and it was difficult reading the vernacular as written by Stribling, but this was an amazing, provocative, novel.
Thank goodness I'm through this book. If you have any need to hear how former slaves were treated and spoken about, this book is for you. I haven't had to deal with hearing such language ever. It pains me to think that this was considered good contemporary fiction when published . It was a terribly cruel time and well documented by this novel
Gahhhh this was so unexpectedly good! I don't know how more people don't know about this book. It reminded me of Faulkner except the plot was better. The sheer hypocrisy outlined in this book is very engaging and hard to read a lot of times.
Wow....this was hard to get through. Can't tell if I am for M. Vaiden or not. I almost felt sorry for the man but in the end I am disgusted. I am still compelled to read the other 2 novels in this trilogy.
made me think about my life.its a book i could read again and again
My final review can be found on my blog: http://followingpulitzer.wordpress.co...
A complicated book.Set in the days after the Civil War, when slavery had been abolished in name but remained a reality.
Stribling doesn't pull any punches.
He doesn't pretend that history was other than it was.
There were several times when I literally put the book down because of how revolting it was.This doesn't mean it wasn't a phenomenal book.
Stribling makes it clear what his opinions are.
His black characters have agency; they are nuanced and true.
Through subtle, cutting wit Stribling offers a deadly criticism of the South post-emancipation.Also?
Another Pulitzer Prize winner behind me. Tale of reconstruction South. It was interesting to hear the perceptions and thinking processes of those in the wake of the Civil War. Also interesting to explore the class distinctions and how they drove people.
Handback.Where Stribling really excels in this book, as he did in his last, is in the close examination of race relations in the post-Reconstruction South.
Once a Civil War hero, a successful overseer, and leader of the KKK, in the New South, Milt Vaiden doesn't know what to do with himself.
The book also explores the lives of those biracial products of rape and/or consensual relations between (usually) white male slave owners and their former slaves, particularly through the person of Toussaint Vaiden.

Should I hate him because he thought black people (referred to by a different name in this) were inferior and that he still felt a sense of ownership of them?
Or should I love him because he was the only one in the book who would help them in any way and always be honest with them, giving them the full pound they paid for instead of cheating them?His wife, Ponny, was amazingly referred to as "fat" in every single mention.
Good book.
Quotes I liked and remembered to record:"Happiness of any kind is like a will o' the wisp, our very motion toward it causes it to float away." - Colonel Miltiades VaidenNovels are written the way people wish life could be lived, Sydna, not as things really happen." - Colonel Miltiades VaidenTo Gracie, standing at the gate, the last illumination in the west seemed to be a doorway leading into vast chambers of light wherein Mr. Handback and all the innumerable dead awaited the rolling up of the scroll of Time.
That was their home.
I can count on one hand the number of books I have picked up and not finished. This was one of them.I was interested in the first place because The Store won the Pulitzer in 1933. Stribling may have presented an accurate picture of the awful treatment of former slaves and their children, but the rampant misogyny and terrible racism were just too painful for me to continue reading. I got about halfway through the book, and I admit that I didn't reach the point where I could decide whether the author was condoning or condemning such attitudes.
This book, the second in Stribling's trilogy, follows the further adventures of the Vaiden family, focusing specifically on Miltiades Vaiden. It is now post-Reconstruction in Florence, Alabama. Milt hasn't made much of himself since his days as a Civil War hero and local leader of the Ku Klux Klan. Milt is still rankled by what he perceived as a local store owner's "theft" of cotton from the family, and he sets out to get the family's rightful property (or the money owed them therefrom) back from the store owner, J. Handback.
This is another Pulitzer winner that I had some issues tracking down-- which surprised me, because it was actually pretty good. I definitely liked it better than the first book in this trilogy, The Forge, and even though Miltaides isn't a very nice person, I was all intrigued to see what happened next. I also feel like this book was a little racy for its time, especially when it came to language -- I learned new racist terms I hadn't ever heard before. o_0
50 States and at least 50 Authors 2016. TENNESSEE.I must surmise that those who create the lists of banned books are unaware of this tome! Apparently, in its time this was an award winner. Slow to begin, the book did improve, however, it stops rather abruptly. Set in Alabama not long after the end of the Civil War when poor whites have few rights and negroes have none, the language reflects that time as does the plot.
This is a kind-of more honest Gone With The Wind. It takes place in 1880s Florence, Alabama. The protagonist is a former Confederate Colonel, Miltiades Vaiden. Very well written. Numerous twists and turns. A lot of heart. A surprising - and disturbing - ending.
I find myself thinking about this book more and more. Not "stirring", as claimed on the cover, but "revealing". Stribling seems more like Jane Austen in his insights than Margaret Mitchell. I think this is an important book and worth reading.
a very interesting view of post-reconstruction time in the south. looking at the times from today's view, it is interesting to see how the south developed into the civil rights movement in the 60's.
3.5
