https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17802724-the-husband-s-secret
This author has the snappy inner dialogue thing down!
I didn't like the way the author described relationships between men and women, or between women and women, or between really anyone and anyone!
At best, this book seems to treat very dark personal secrets as kind of a universal joke-is-on-us thing.
Then she lightly flits off with a neat, knowing, witty reference to the beginning of her book and the thing is over.
I was totally like, what??
He knew how to do that whole "And now you know the rest of the story" thing.
For real."The Husband's Secret" by Liane Moriarty sounds awesome in theory.
A woman finds a hidden letter written years ago by her loyal husband that contains a secret that could change or ruin many lives.
However, as humiliating as it may be, I am a fan of Harlequin, the king of the mass produced romance lady novel.
However, most of those mass produced books are WAY better than this chart topping hooey.
Some women will eat it up, but i found it poorly written, repetitive, and so predictable that it's laughable.Try it if you want, but if you want to save yourself massive amounts of boredom, then use it as kindling.
Cecilia Fitzpatrick thinks she knows her husband inside out, so she's surprised to accidentally discover in the attic a dusty sealed envelope with "For my wife - to be opened only in the event of my death" written on it in his handwriting.
When she casually mentions it to him on the phone, his reaction makes it clear that the last thing he wants is for her to open that envelope - but why?Leaving us with this intriguing puzzle, the story then jumps to another woman, Tess, whose husband has fallen in love with someone else.
Some secrets are meant to stay secret forever. Just ask Pandora. The Husband's Secret is a decent book, but I honestly expected to enjoy it a lot more than I did. I love mysteries that focus on the characters and their relationships with each other; and I love reading about morally questionable people, especially women. I find complex relationships between women to be fascinating - woven with friendship, jealousies and secrets - but I found this book superficial and, at times, even boring.First
You open this book just like Pandora opening her box/jar, promised this huge secret by the title and blurb, and yet for me it was very anticlimactic.It gets three stars because Moriarty writes about selfish, depressed and troubled middle-class women very well.
In this book, I get the sense that Moriarty has tapped into real human reactions and behaviour - these women don't always feel and behave in a typical or conventional way, and yet it seems all the more real because of it.But interesting character studies aside, it did get tiresome after a while.
*5+ Stars … A new favorite!*Can I say I effing love this author after having read only two of her books?
Because that’s exactly what’s going on right now…I’ve been on a huge Mystery/Psychological Thriller kick lately, and I’ve realized with many books of this genre, some (or all) of the characters are very easy to hate.
This story is told in a third person perspective that alternates focus between the lives of three women whose paths will eventually, and quite literally, collide.
Sometimes, when I truly love a book, it’s difficult for me to explain why.
As readers, we become privy to secrets which the author does not reveal to her characters.
any other woman in the vicinity.2.) FAT-HATEAccording to this book, fat women are like the most tragic, horrifying people on Earth.
Despite what the media tells you, fat women have sex/dates/love just like anyone else.
Almost every single fat woman I know is in a healthy, loving relationship with a "normal" (meaning: not a "chubby chaser" or loser or whatever scraps people think fat women end up with) guy.
You don't have to look like a Victoria's Secret ad to get a husband.Whenever I read a book filled with fat hate, I am confused.
Normally I save my audiobooks for cleaning house, but this was so good I took it on runs, slowed down my walks to work, even listened for a few minutes as I got my coffee, ignoring my coworkers.
I'd like to be cool and literary and say that everything got tied up too neatly in the end, that this is a book too obviously pandering to women of my age (40) and station in life (married with children, working hard, somewhat comfortable) but honestly, I just enjoyed the hell out of it.
I'm just going to leave it at 3. I don't know how I really feel about this one. I felt the same way about Big Little Lies because I listened to both books on audio the first time. And for some reason her books don't work for me the first time around on audio. So I will leave it at that for now. I know I loved Big Little Lies when I read the physical book so we shall see Mel 🖤🐾🐺
I just didn't care about any of the characters or how the story was going to end.It's definitely not going into the stack of books I consider to be riveting.
;-) I'd throw it in the stack of stories about selfish people making selfish choices in life.
I mean, come on, someone does something that drastically changes your life completely in a negative way...you're not going to forgive them within a few days or 50 pages at the end of a book.
You don't forgive him a week later when he claims that he made a mistake & really loves you...not your best friend/cousin.
Cecilia starts poking around the attic one day to find a piece of the Berlin wall she has, her daughter is going through a Berlin wall phase, when she finds a letter addressed to her from her husband in case of his death.
Now that her son is moving, she won't be seeing her grandson and she finds herself getting wrapped up in Janie's death even more.
Tess moves back into town after finding out that her husband and best friend have fallen in love behind her back.
It just felt like the whole Tess story line could have been cut out of the book without any problems.
I have not read any other Liane Moriarty books and am not inclined to after reading this one.
I don't know why people call books like this 'good summer reading' - a great book is a great book and it doesn't matter what time of the year it's read.
This was a book club recommendation and I cannot understand why it was so popular.
The piece that finally did it for me was the little addition of a paragraph telling us why in 1984 texts could not be sent because they were not invented yet ..
And finally the whole tupperware thing ...
Why wouldn't she open the box?
She had no idea what would be unleashed when she opened the box.
The stories are also interspersed with a little bit of history of the Berlin Wall.
Which would seem odd except that, when you think about the Berlin Wall, Pandora's Box, and Tupperware.
They are all trying to do the same thing; keep what needs to be kept in.
But, like all of the above mentioned containments, eventually things leak out and there is no predicting how that will turn out.Read the rest of review: http://amusingreviews.blogspot.com/20...
What did this man do that he wrote a letter to his wife that should be opened upon his death...
do I have a secret I need to reveal...
worth putting in a sealed letter that I can't disclose until I'm dead and buried...
so I guess this won't be something I need to do in the future.
But reading the book is something to do!
And when it finally does with the tragedy near the end, you're heartbroken.I would definitely read another book by this author.
Nice job!Small spoiler in this paragraph so skip it if you haven't read the book yet...
This book is about secrets and lies.
If we knew those secrets could we still love them?
Rachel the mother who cannot get over the death of her daughter years ago.
Tess, mother of a young school age boy, owns a business with her husband and cousin and is about to have her life turned upside down.
Each separate story weaves it's thread until they all come together in an explosive ending.
Don't you ever wonder how the smallest detail in your daily life can cause a major ripple and repercussions down the road that you could never imagine?
Her husband is not dead yet and so she agonizes through too many chapters about whether to open the letter.
The reader knows the contents of the letter will be pretty exciting because Moriarty starts a foreword with a passage about Pandora’s box.
The book is actually about three separate women and their immediate families which confused me when the point of view abruptly switched between chapters from Pandora Letter Woman to someone else.
Also, it takes an exceptionally good writer to effortlessly transition between characters or introduce new characters without some sort of clue to the reader (such as heading each chapter with a name, etc.).
4.5 StarsI have enjoyed reading all of Liane Moriarty's books.
I was introduced to her books early this year and she is now definitely a favourite.
The first part of The Husband's Secret was a bit difficult to get through, meeting the many characters, the connection between all of them, and the different points of view.
However, it was well worth the wait as the story came together.
An amazing story of the secrets we keep.
The book shows how one decision can impact the rest of your life and those you love.
An excellent read that I highly recommend.
I bet just like me, a lot of people could confidently say that they are moral human beings who know what is right from what is wrong but the predicament of these characters constantly made me think, “if I were in their shoes, I probably would have done the same thing or perhaps, even worse.” Even if it bothered my conscience, I would have also fixated on my own and my loved ones’ preservation.
This was my first book by Ms. Moriarty, but I think I have a new go-to author when I’m looking for something mysterious, quite angsty but twisty and thought provoking fiction to read.
As I walked into the bookstore, this first edition book with a pearlescent background; embossed black title; and a shattered pink rose immediately drew me to it--beautiful and on sale, too!I was familiar with the author's name, but I'd never read any of her books.
My expectations were not high, but I definitely needed a change of pace from the previous four books I'd read.
The surprises were many, and I enjoyed the touch of humor sprinkled about the chapters, even though this was a serious, fast-paced read.
Probably the best way I could praise any author would be to purchase another one of their books.
Discovering Liane Moriarty's novels has made me giddy.
I pondered our shared humanity and the moral messiness of modern life.
What else could you ask for in a contemporary novel?I can't wait to dive into the rest of Liane's books!Favorite Quotes"None of us ever know all the possible courses our lives could have and maybe should have taken.
Most of all, to your child.""It wasn’t logical, but the better you knew someone, the more blurry they became.
She could have easily gone her whole life without knowing those limits, but now she knew exactly where they lay.""Falling in love was easy.
Anyone could fall.
4.5 StarsCecilia has found a letter, written by her husband to be opened after his death, but he is still very much alive, and the secret inside is about to shatter her perfect life.Rachel has spent years mourning the loss of her daughter, she is just going through the motions, plagued by the life that was stolen.Tess is faces the ultimate betrayal when the two people she trust the most in the world, make a shocking declaration.
How well do we really know each other, our spouse, best friend, ourselves?
The Husbands's Secret is a gripping, suspenseful, well-written story, that kept me turning the page.
The Husband's Secret is an intricate novel of multiple stories and lives that all affect one another in the end.
I was impressed by the way the author handled this, although I must admit, in the beginning, for the first few chapters, I was a bit confused about what was happening and where it was leading.
Once this novel really got moving for me,(along about chapter three) this became a book that I didn't relish having to put down.
This is not a book that I would recommend reading whilst you are distracted.
Overall, this was impressive and a book that I would certainly recommend to others.
Of course, Lies became a famous, award-winning TV mini-series (Nicole Kidman, Reese Witherspoon, THAT kind of famous), so readers may now have different visualisations of the characters.I mention this first because I also just read another book about young mothers and new babies and a kidnapping, and I had a hard time telling the “voices” apart, which made for a somewhat strained experience.
Felicity got slim, is now gorgeous, there's trouble, and Tess has taken her little boy to see her mother who’s laid up with a broken ankle back in Sydney.
Tess thinks:“Her mother had never really lost the habit of speaking on her behalf.
But, my God, she’d forgotten the power of it.
and it was totally worth it!Every chapter is short, really short, (like three pages), and each chapter shifts to a different family, so it was a bit mentally taxing to have to constantly keep shifting my train of thought SO often.
But I stuck with it, because I JUST HAD TO KNOW WHAT THAT LETTER SAID!!!I felt like the story was timed perfectly, and the secret was revealed at just the right moment, not too early, not too late.
Once the secret was out (and it's a good one!), I felt that the characters' reactions were spot-on, as they are in all of Moriarty's books.As this story continued, the characters' lives became more intertwined, which was just fascinating.
"None of us ever know all the possible courses our lives could have, and maybe should have taken. It's probably just as well. Some secrets are meant to stay secret forever. Just ask Pandora." This is my first book by this author and it certainly won’t be my last. I thoroughly enjoyed it and that ending packed one hell of a punch. I have read the epilogue to everyone in my family to share in my excitement sadly I guess you have to read the whole book to get the full effect. This story is based a
"None of us ever know all the possible courses our lives could have, and maybe should have taken.
This is my first book by this author and it certainly won’t be my last.
I have read the epilogue to everyone in my family to share in my excitement sadly I guess you have to read the whole book to get the full effect.
As the story goes forth you can’t help be fully invested in these woman’s lives despite their ages or circumstances.
”You could try as hard as possible to imagine someone else’s tragedy- drowning in icy waters, living in a city split by a wall – but nothing truly hurt until it happened to you.”
I’m not gonna lie, the story was predictable at times, but I think most of fiction novels are in one way or another.
She feels betrayed, she’s angry and all she wants is to escape.Rachel – is a 68 years old woman who can’t move on from the murder of her daughter more than two decades ago.
Apparently there’s no connection between them, but they are more connected than they think.I really liked these three women and I loved how realistically they are portrayed.
Honestly when I saw there’s an epilogue I was kind of surprised, because liked I said the ending worked very well for me.
You know it's there but when you try and look right at it, it vanishes.Ok, I will however admit that by the time I got to reading the letter, I had already guessed it's content and at that point, I was kind of wondering if I should keep reading or not (again, remember that at this point, I wasn't even planning to review it) but the good writing and my darn curiosity kept me going and I'm so glad I did because some of those later reveals were huge and I began to realize that the content of the letter was just the tip of the iceberg and the real meat of the story was the consequences of those facts and the deeper connections between the characters.Now, about the ending --  Even though the story was fully wrapped up, it left me feeling...
Not bad, as far as my local book club choices go. The style is certainly engaging and I kept wanting to read more and more from the first page, but it was surprisingly predictable given the popularity of the book. Decent, good for a half-drunken, wine-filled discussion (we have a classy book club). I still think this would have been a good chance to sneak some gay porn into my book club...
Well, I stayed up all night reading this one. A well-crafted story that's humorous, but also a serious look at all the secrets we keep from one another--and ourselves. Definitely looking into other books by this author.
Hot damn - that was a helluva ride!The Husband's Secret reads like an episode of Desperate Housewives.
I'd like to think this is a story of ordinary people going through extraordinary circumstances.
She wove together a story here that essentially spoke about ordinary, every day events, but made it into a page-turning thriller of a read.
It sort of felt that Moriarty couldn't even, herself, let go of the story and needed to tie up any loose ends that might've been left dangling.
I think, with the epilogue, Moriarty was going for one last 'shock-factor' moment.
What if? That's what comes to mind when I think of this novel. This book definitely wasn't what I imagined. I envisioned an entirely different plot when I read that a woman would read a note to be read only in the event of his death. Liane takes her readers on an unimaginable ride, one with a mind blowing ending. I really enjoy books like this. I like to go into a book predicting one thing and then having the author rip that story from my hands and put something even more fascinating in them. Great read!
