https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68483.The_Vor_Game
He hoped for a decent assignment, but his superiors thought he had an insubordination problem, so they decided a good way to fix it is to assign him to a remote place which in this case happened to be a military base on an island in the middle of nowhere, far in the north (read - cold).
Superior officers tend to end up trying - and failing - to clean up the mess the guy leaves in his wake.The novel won a Hugo Award for Best Novel at the time when good writing and plot were more important than political leaning.
There are some typical sci-fi and adventure tropes, but Miles Vorkosigan is such a great character, that all is forgiven!
Soon after he gets a handle on his job, some of his fellows start dying and Miles decides to investigate.
Somehow, the young Emperor Gregor also decides right at this moment to try and run away from his life and heavy responsibilities...
And yes, there usually is the happy end and unlikely resolutions, but it is just what this author does so well and we need this optimism in our daily lives!!!
and from the arctic station he finds himself tossed pell-mell, willy-nilly, etc, right into the middle of a plot teeming with ruthless villains, a young emperor trying to escape his duties, nervous colonies, anxious bodyguards, two mercenary camps, new space gadgets, and reunions galore with characters from prior novels.
much like Miles, she has a quick and improvisatory way of thinking, always on the fly and always taking advantage of any opportunity she sees.
for some reason the novel takes pains to compare Miles and Catsuit, at times even theorizing that if Miles doesn't watch out, he may end up like the amoral Catsuit sometime in the future.
It did.I will not go on record saying that this was anywhere near my favorite Vorkosigan novel, but there is enough plain fun and wild plotting and vibrant characterizations to satisfy any old-school Space-Opera junkie.
:)Original Review:This was a great fast tale, and satisfying on many levels, but I have a few issues with it.
A lot happens, and I even accepted the fantastic chance that brought the Emperor into Miles's care (or neglect) as a funny way to up the stakes.
UPDATED 2017.04.02 with Worst Cover Gallery - check down below and feel free to comment!_______________________________I got lazy.
Very, very lazy.
Which is not a bad thing, eh?I enjoyed the book, it was fun and entertaining, with smart dialogues and interesting characters.
I missed Cordelia in this book a bit though.
I know, it's all about Miles now and he was perfect in his unique Milesy way, but still.
Which was actually fun.Anywho, I will get to the next part asap.
I love this series._______________________________Worst Cover Gallery
- Miles the Pimp
My personal fav - Miles meets Cthulu.
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my HUGO WINNERS list.This is the reading list that follows the old adage, "if it ain't broke, don't fix it". I loved reading the Locus Sci-Fi Award winners so I'm going to crack on with the Hugo winners next (but only the post-1980 winners, I'll follow up with
This book falls into my HUGO WINNERS list.This is the reading list that follows the old adage, "if it ain't broke, don't fix it".
I loved reading the Locus Sci-Fi Award winners so I'm going to crack on with the Hugo winners next (but only the post-1980 winners, I'll follow up with pre-1980 another time).Long-running series should, ideally, be read in the internal chronological order.
Unfortunately, Maestro Bujold did not write her epic Vorkosigan Saga in the obvious order – she’s jumped back and forth in the timeline with each successive book.
The truly awful thing, however, is that everyone around him flocks to him and just waits for the oh so brilliant Miles to lead them into disaster (they actually expect him to come up with a plan although at least people like Elena know by now how ridiculous his plans always are and how much he relies on luck).
Sure, there are even more stupid people around (not only on Barrayar which gets mocked for its traditions), but does truly nobody see that Miles isn't actually smart?!So in this second book about Miles and his "adventures" we start with him graduating from the military academy through some political strings that got pulled at the end of the last novel.
I originally picked up the series from Memory.Miles Vorkosigan has graduated the Imperial Military Academy and looks set for a bright future of military service as long as he develops some important basic officer skills.
A lot of it is more of The Warrior's Apprentice with regards to the Dendarii Mercenaries, but much of the rest of it is outrageous coincidences followed by situations where the plot of the story and the antagonists as well seem to set Miles up for victory.
We know how unlikely it would be in a "serious SF story" for these things to happen without the main characters getting blasted by a nerve disruptor, being spaced, or vaporized in a space battle, but the fact that Miles and Ivan can weasel their way through scrape after scrape is a bit like a really well-written TV comedy.
What elevates Bujold's stories of Miles and his friends is that her characters are both three-dimensional and believable, even if their situations are not.
This series is like crack. I've read the first four and instead of planning on reading the next one I'm planning on how to read the next four. I'm in loooove.
Another light and fun read about Miles Vorkosigan and his adventures, or shall I say misadventures? :) Troubles with the superiors as expected. Nice balance of both ground and space action with a good dose of humour. Interplanetary politics and space battles added enough sci-fi flavour to satisfy my appetite.On the whole very enjoyable light read.Recommended for sci-fi adventure and space opera fans.
Even though I have read this book before many times I stayed up half the night (giggling and sometimes laughing out loud and waking the family) to finish it because I couldn't stop.
There are some political ramifications of his actions because he is his father's son and there are way too many people that want the old Admiral dead and buried.Miles receives a second chance, this time as part of an ImpSec operation that puts him in contact with his old fleet of mercenaries.
To make things worse Miles is suddenly stuck with Gregor, who has decided that he doesn't want to be Emperor and just ran away.
It’s more like Mile gets to trot and plot all over the galaxy fighting space mercenaries, spying on potential enemies, command set piece space battles and you can bet there is a whole lot of usurping/insubordination involved.What I appreciated about this book is that we pretty much have the same Miles I loved from The Warrior's Apprentice.
What I didn’t like so much about this book was that we pretty much have the same Miles I loved from The Warrior's Apprentice.
But I am looking forward to the next books building on Miles character and career as he gets older.This is more a 3.5 stars for me.
I can't quite go there as there were a few false notes (I'll mention later) but all in all an excellent book and a great read.
The false note I mentioned is that a few times I felt we'd sort of circled back (no details until a spoiler tag).
There is some great dialog and that isn't always the case even with good novels.
(hide spoiler)]So, as I said, a highly recommended read and I'm already planning to get to the third/fifth novel in the series.
Super enjoyable just as the previous books have been.
I like the way Miles raises up the people around him.
The people who don't appreciate him generally have outdated notions of value and the idea that dues need to be paid before advancement is awarded.
One of my favourite things about him, and Miles, and the circle around them, is the intense loyalty they feel towards each other.
The sense of security that creates contributes to a general feeling of optimism in the book.On to the next book, Cetaganda.
Incredible follow up to The Warrior's Apprentice. Miles is back in action.I am starting to realize Lois McMaster is a genius and she does no wrong.Love this as much as previous books and look forward to continue.
5.0 stars. Outstanding, smart science fiction novel with heart. Miles Vorkosigan is an amazing character. Highly recommended. Winner: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1991)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1991)
It seemed like the right book to dive into this week because the Hugo awards are today, and this was the first "real time" Hugo winner I read.
14-year-old me had read Hugo winners before (Dune, Rendezvous with Rama, Ender's Game), but at the time I was reading those well after they had won; The Vor Game was the first novel I read because it had JUST won the Hugo.
I remember liking it well enough, but not well enough to keep reading Bujold - until a couple of months ago when I picked up The Warrior's Apprentice and loved it.
“Very good.
But your most insidious chronic problem is in the area of .
how shall I put this precisely .
subordination.
You argue too much.” “No, I don’t,” Miles began indignantly, then shut his mouth.Ah, another visit with Miles Vorkosigan/Naismith!
His problems with being the smartest guy in the room, but with physical limitations.In many ways, Miles is like a jazz musician—he knows strategy (the melody) inside & out.
When a new situation is thrown at him, he is able in incorporate it into his playing and take the strategy song to new places.
Great reader, tangled web, & Miles is like a spastic spider running through it all.
It's a lot of fun as Miles deals with his insubordination issues - not particularly well as most would guess.
It's not his fault they give him the wrong orders.
(His words, not mine.)It's a series & if you want to find out more about it, I suggest you read it in chronological order.
The list is here:http://www.goodreads.com/series/98254...It's much better than the published order.
Bujold has done a marvelous job filling in the cracks & her writing has gotten better all the time.
If you have some idea about my reading preferences you know that I adore stories about some secluded places, especially when they are cold and when a group of people is closed there this way or another and the interactions between them become tense and not so obvious.
The characters I began to like in the previous volumes appear here as well and it was nice to read about them (especially one fanboy, I mean, man I get you.
I don’t care that much about planets, I prefer reading about people.Also, Miles, dear, could you please never ever again speak to any woman you are even slightly attracted to?
The fact that Miles travels through several wormholes, only to randomly meet the same people he met in the first part of the book (view spoiler)[ including being thrown into the same cell as the emperor of his home planet Barrayar  (hide spoiler)], is a bit too much to accept for me.The last part of the book has everything you would want in a space opera, but at times it feels like Bujold thought: how much trouble can I get the protagonist in, and how often?
uza svu prehladu i temperaturu uspjela sam je nekako dovrsiti s par ponavljanja nekih poglavlja. ostalih pet koji me cekaju na polici ce cekat malo bolje dane, as mi koncentracija nije bas najbolja. ovo je predobra knjiga da je citam u ovakvom stanju ;)
What's your encore?!""Go away, I'm busy."Jasmine and Stephanie reviewed this book saying they would die in a war for Gregor.
You need to talk to someone." "Who?" "My mother." I love at the end of the book when Miles and Gregor talk a circle around Illyan and Illyan realizes he's lost, and instead of being angry he's like...
Cordelia, Aral, Illyan, all the rest, kept pushing forward, and with every step they were willing to die for their kids, and now here they are: it's not a perfect world, but their kids have caught the vision and are pushing forward too, trying to take the best of what their parents were and leave the worst.
This time Miles gets sent to (the Barrayian version of) a Siberian training base to see if he can't figure out that whole being a subordinate thing .
because he's gotta learn to obey if he's ever gonna live the dream of serving on a starship, but what's a tiny-brittle-boned-hunch-backed-hyperactive-genius supposed to do when his commanding officer is on the verge of committing mass-murder (and creating a political disaster that could undermine his father's hard won carefully balanced planetary peace), why Save The Day of course.
Bujold is just so rude this way, she says she always asks herself, what's the worst thing I can do to my character, and then she does it.
Vegetarian fare.
That is, there's no meat to it.It's entertaining, but there are so many ghosts in this machine that it needs an exorcist.
I was going to say that Miles Vorkosigan is the biggest Mary Sue ever.
But he's not, because he doesn't have talent, he just has more luck than anybody else in the universe!Now I face a quandary.
I'm reading the Hugo winners.
There are two more books in the series for which she's won Hugos!
To Say Nothing of the Dog was excellent; Doomsday Book and All Clear were unreadable: so do I read Blackout, which also won a Hugo.
Please note: my three star rating is not an aspersion on the book's quality, just a measure of how much I enjoy this book relative to the rest of the series.
It's all very smart and well executed (obviously, if it won a Hugo), just not as much fun as THE WARRIOR'S APPRENTICE, and more full of the kinds of characters I find more exasperating than compelling (*cough* Cavilo *cough*).
Also, the final battle depends on a lot of elaborate tactical strategy that I find I simply can't picture in my mind, so I end up skimming it and having only the vaguest idea of what's going on.
This isn't my favorite of the Vorkosigan novels, though it has its moments: (view spoiler)[Gregor walking up to the plasma cannon and rescuing himself, for one. (hide spoiler)] It slows down seriously in the middle, and not in a good way. Even so, it sets things up nicely for the later books, and I love the character development, particularly how Miles relates to his superiors.
Son las 5:30 de la mañana y escribo esto tras meterle un arreón a las últimas cientocincuenta páginas así que os podréis imaginar lo que me ha gustado.
3.5 stars. Cute, fun, a bit snarky humor
