https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56627.Stumbling_on_Happiness
Instead of telling you how you can be happier, Harvard Psychology professor Gilbert talks about why we are so bad at predicting what will make us happy in the first place.
Gilbert is a smooth and entertaining writer, and he does a good job of explaining in detail the cognitive errors we make in trying to predict our future happiness.
For those who hope to gain some practical value from the book, Gilbert also outlines one technique that has been effective in predicting future happiness, but then goes on to discuss the reason why the vast majority of humans won’t use it.
But this book points out that we generally thing we are going to feel infinitely worse than we actually end up feeling.
What this book does do is show how we are remarkably consistent at fooling ourselves in ways that have negative effects on our happiness and shows some ways we may be able to take control.I don’t want to spoil this for you – but the bit about the people in the old people’s home who had control over when young visitors would come see them was one of the saddest things I’ve read in a long time.
When we imagine future feelings, we find it impossible to ignore what we are feeling now and impossible to recognize how we will think about the things that happen later.Forgive my rather "meh" response to this book.
Gilbert presents these studies and experiments and psychological insights that will be stunning and revolutionary to anyone who is uneducated in psychology, but to someone who has been trained in psychology, there is absolutely nothing new to offer here.This is NOT a self-help book.
Instead, this is a look into psychology and a bit of neuroscience (but only the most minuscule bit).Gilbert discusses things like resiliency, selective memory, and expectations about the future.
این یه کتاب عملی و راهنما برای خوشحال بودن نیست و بیشتر این موضوع رو بررسی می کنه که چرا چیزهایی که فکر می کنیم در آینده ما رو خوشحال می کنن وقتی بهشون می رسیم می بینیم نه، همچین خبری نیست انگار.ویژگی های کتاباستایل نوشتن دنیل گیلبرت با ذائقه من که خیلی جور بود، مثلا می خواد دلیل یک خطای فکری رو توضیح بده، اول یه مثال ساده می زنه و بعد سیستم کارکرد مغز رو بر اساس همون مثال شرح می ده و در ادامه هم یه پونصدتایی مثال از ریسرچ هایی که این موضوع رو بررسی و اثبات کردن میاره.گزیده هایی از کتاباضطراب وقتی در ما به وجود میاد که به آینده فکر می کنیم.

Is it just me, or is the author of this book unusually cocky in his writing style?
His tone is one of an utterly brilliant professor talking down to his idiotic, simple students.
I was actually, mildly offended by this book, and as you can probably tell by the rest of my selections, I am not easily offended.
This book just wasted my time.
Even the forward to the book, with acknowledgements, is cocky beyond belief.
Gilbert first says "Actually, I wrote this book all by myself, without any help," before acknowledging that he borrowed lots from his students' research.
This is another one of those books, like Blink or Outliers, where an author applies science in an unorthodox way, flings a bunch of interesting anecdotes and studies at you, and pretends to draw more conclusions than are actually warrented.
But I think in the end, it's fluff--in one ear and right out the other.
I'm still not sure what I've actually absorbed.Gilbert's basic thesis boils down to the fact that the trait that lets us build civilizations--imagination--constantly deludes us into misjudging what will make us happy.
April 2007, first impression: So far, this book is witty, eye-opening and really fun.
Dennett in the first five pages, so how could I not love it?May 2007, upon completion: Update...
Ultimately, I decided to give this book three stars because I believe that it is a ballsy and well-executed attempt to take on an impossibly difficult problem (happiness - that's a biggie).
For the most part, I admire Gilbert's methods, though they ALL become incredibly frustrating somewhere around page 200.
The book is witty, incredibly well researched, and Gilbert is (mostly) unwilling to extrapolate the massive amounts of data he compiles into proscriptive solutions for finding happiness.
In fact, the opposite is generally the case…Our relentless desire to explain everything that happens may well distinguish us from fruit flies, but it can also kill our buzz.” “Because we tend to remember the best of times and the worst of times instead of the most likely of times, [experience] does not always pay clear dividends.” “In short, the production of wealth does not necessarily make individuals happy, but it does serve the needs of an economy, which serves the needs of a stable society, which serves as a network for the propagation of delusional beliefs about happiness and wealth.”
Rather, it delineates the many errors we humans make when solidifying decisions and how our minds trick us into choosing things that might not lead us to happiness in the long run.A few cool concepts stood out to me when reading Stumbling On Happiness: how we kind of suck at predicting our future emotions because our present state influences us so much, how certain societal ideas like needing money or wanting kinds propagate even if they do not make us happy, and how the brain constructs experiences based on biased memories as opposed to objective truths.
I'll continue to fool myself that I know what I'm doing, feeling, seeing and thinking, but thanks to this book, I hope that I'll increase the basic level of happiness to which all people seem to revert to eventually.
I immensely enjoyed the brilliant writing and the wit of the author, which definitely added to the pleasure of reading this book.
Instead, this is a book that describes what science has to tell us about how and how well the human brain can imagine its own future, and about how and how well it can predict which of those futures it will most enjoy...
He has nearly nothing to say, however, about the social and cultural context in which people live, and the many and various ways in which the wider world influences our happiness (or lack thereof).Ultimately therefore, this is akin to reading a book about what optical illusions tell us about the brain's visual system, rather than a critical analysis of painting that explains why we perceive one work as a masterpiece and the next as merely ordinary.
And this matters, because creating happiness is not just a question of the plumbing of the brain (although it is clearly important to understand this too); it is more like creating a masterpiece.Last complaint: despite a fairly engaging style and some humour, this is closer to being an academic thesis than a popular science book.
"No one likes to be criticized, of course, but if the things we successfully strive for do not make our future selves happy, or if the things we unsuccessfully avoid do, then it seems reasonable (if somewhat ungracious) for them to cast a disparaging glance backward and wonder what the hell we were thinking.""This is when I learned that mistakes are interesting and began planning a life that contained several of them.""Surprise tells us that we were expecting something other than what we got, even when we didn't know we were expecting anything at all.""Studies such as these demonstrate that once we have an experience, we cannot simply set it aside and see the world as we would have seen it had the experience never happened.""Nothing  more  than feelings?
Combining the rigor of scientific inquiry with the affability of a humorist, this remarkable book examines the brain's systematic inability to reliably predict what will make us happy. Gilbert shows how neurological structures that allow us to store and re-imagine information may serve us all too well, creating a persuasive yet fundamentally distorted picture of what we want and why we want it. A life-changing book, or at least ought to be. This, more than any other recent read, is the one I'm recommending to all my friends and family.
While I'd still give this book 4 stars for its often interesting survey of cognitive research about the behavior of imagination in predicting future happiness and/or regret, any reasonably introspective person of a certain age will have already made many of these observations by paying attention to their own lives and the lives of other people.Malcolm Gladwell has given a celebrity review of this book, and Seth Godin's blurb on the back cover compares Gilbert to Gladwell, but don't be fooled - they're in a different league.
I really struggled to finish this book, despite the warm praise from Malcom Gladwell and Seth Godin and my interest in the subject.
Stumbling on Happiness reads like a rather dry lecture from a mildly-entertaining Harvard professor.
Gilbert takes a fascinating subject and manages to suck all the air out around it.
What this book needs is less "witty" attempts to connect and a better editor.
A simple wrap up of the ideas presented at the end of each chapter and a good slashing of the extraneous could go a long way to making this a happier read.
I have thought of this book and brought it up in conversation quite a bit because either a)it has a lot of real life applications or b) I'm kind of obsessed with the subject of happiness.
It has been a long time since I thought a piece of pie or a new couch or sex with an attractive partner would make me happy.
They give me pleasure, but to make me happy, I'd need to make the pie and share it, have some company on that couch or find intimacy with someone I have a connection with (aka my awesome husband).
Stumbling On Happiness and is my current rebellion book.
How, once a moment has passed, it is impossible for the individual who experienced the moment to accurately rate how happy that moment made us because, our subsequent experiences change how we view that experience.
How convinced we as Americans are that are happiness will always increase, that something better is always going to be happening in the next experience and how we neglect our best resource (other people) to predict which experiences will make us happiest because of our compelling need to be unique (even though it has been proven that people are more alike than different.)Very interesting stuff to ponder.
3.5 stars. This was really good and not at all what I was expecting. This is not a self help book on how to find happiness. It is more of a study on why we are so bad at predicting what will make us happy. Very interesting read, definitely recommend if you are interested in psychology and how the brain works.
A great book by a great author.
He may not authored so much but this book is remarkably insightful.
I came to know about it through a TED talk by the same author.The books sheds light, "social-sciencly" (read the 'not-in-dictionary' word as an adverb), on happiness.
The main take is that biases creep in all of us and it is more often that not that we fail to know what will bring us more happiness.
But wait, there is a solution to it.
I am not telling you the solution but you will find it in the book.
I suppose that being a textbook writer is the reason that this author writes as though he is completely oblivious of his audience. It reads like a psychology lecture by a pompous professor who is more amused by his own knowledge then in the passion and excitement of learning. And much like most college classes, even though there are a few laughs, it mostly just drags and drags....
I would recommend reading Flow, The Psychology of Optimal Experience instead, which is excellently written and researched, and covers a more satisfying aspect of Happiness.
This book is still worth reading, though, and works as a good complement because it's nice to have some insight into how we trick ourselves (which Flow really doesn't cover).
But this book tackles happiness in a most superficial way; it would be more fitting to say it tackles brain-illusions.
It should be called "Brain Illusions: How the mind tricks you daily" instead of "Stumbling on Happiness", which is kind of a misnomer.
However, our imagination can be misleading because it adds and removes details, makes the past or the future more pleasant than they actually were (or will be), fails to realize that things will feel differently once they actually happen.Gilbert's advice is to use other people's experiences to predict the future, instead of imagining it.
However, at this point I disagree with him because people's personalities, perception of the world and situation will have impact on their level of happiness over the same event.
However, Gilbert's imagination of the usefulness of this advice in making people happy can be wrong too.
And what better way to know one's self than to understand the workings of the human brain.
The first part of this book reminded me some of the material covered in the book, Animals in Translation: Using the Mysteries of Autism to Decode Animal Behavior by Temple Grandin (link is to my review).The following short review of this book is from the PageADay Book Lover's Calendar for June 8, 2017:Renowned Harvard psychologist Daniel Gilbert takes a look at how human beings tend to miscalculate their future happiness.
This book is an overview of his research on affective forecasting, which examines what and how people think about their own emotions.
This is not a self-help book (as Dan explains early on), but rather explains what has been learned from the scientific study of our own beliefs about happiness and other emotions.
To the extent that this book may be useful in terms of the pursuit of happiness, it may help you examine how you tend to evaluate your own emotional state, and the biases and errors we all make in drawing conclusions about our happiness.
The most enlightening work I have ever read on how we fail to make decisions in a way that makes us happy.
However, I find that just being aware of the shortcomings and biases of my own mind are much more valuable, so I'm perfectly happy that most of the book is spent on this part.While I have not looked up any of the sources, the book is firmly rooted in psychological research and does not appear to stretch or editorialize for the sake of alliteration or making a point.
All-in-all a fun and extremely useful read for anyone interested in how and why we aren't perfect.
If you are technical or scientific then "Stumbling on Happiness" may be a good read for you.
For me, Daniel Gilbert's conclusions were fascinating but most may be garnered by reading his articles or the last chapter of his book.
Particulary interesting to me were his findings on children and happiness.
"Every human culture tells its members that having children will make them happy." However, studies on marital satisfaction show that couples are happiest when they are married without children and when they are empty nesters.
Couples are least happy when their children are teenagers, pre-school age, and newborns.
one of the best Reads, great explanations of motives and reasons of our attitudes and behaivours when it comes to the pursuits of the ultimate mutual goal HAPPINESS. A beautiful insightfull science! looking forward to reread it and read other books by Daniel Gilbert
Because most of us get so much practice imagining good than bad events, we tend to overestimate the likelihood that good events will actually happen to us, which leads us to be unrealistically optimistic about our futures.People want to be happy, and all the other things they want are typically means to that end.Imagining "what it would feel like" sounds like a fluffy bit of daydreaming, but in fact, it is one of the most consequential mental acts we can perform, and we perform it every day.
Of course it's more like a conversation with a professor (in which he does most of the talking), but this professor is a witty guy and he can keep you amused for a long while on his educational topics.
It's like stumbling on a good talk that makes you feel like engaging on it.Second, this book does not lay out to us any specific lists of do-and-don't to guide us to happiness.
The third reason why I like this book is that as each topic is discussed, I had a good review on what I've learned in psychology before, but this time with many concepts applied in how we can explain the perception of happiness.
