https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/877668.Revolve_Devotional_Bible_NCV
Reading each book and taking notes helps to find answers and is so personal.
The New Testament I read from shortest to longest books.
Now with the Old Testament I'll read oldest book to newest.
And there is a summary at the end of each book introduction - a big help in understanding the history of early Christianity and how the good news of that day still applies to this day and generation.I'm personally challenged to read the Bible through in a year and so started February 8th (2010) with 1 Peter.
Continuing to read with the method of shorter books first, I've read all the Pastoral Letters of the New Testament before going back to The Gospels and Acts of the Apostles.
With Father’s Day just a little over a week away, this is the perfect time to consider the Dad’s Bible, New Century Version, with study notes by Robert Wolgemuth.Although I was not especialy impressed with the NCV translation–it was simple to understand but lacked the flow and poetry of some other English language Bibles–Dr. Wolgemuth’s comments helped me understand the Bible in a fresh way.For instance, in his introduction to the book of Genesis, Dr. Wolgemuth writes, “[A]lthough this may be hard to comprehend, you’re a patriarch, too.
However, they helped me apply what I read in the Bible to my role as a father to my children.This book is a great gift for the special dad in your life.
Best book I've ever laid hands on. It's easy to understand, and it changes my life daily. I recommend EVERY teenage girl who is looking for guidance and understanding about life to get this Bible. You can purchase it at Morning Star and if there isn't a Morning Star in your state, I'm sure they sell it at Borders Bookstore. You can always purchase it online too. Don't wait another second, go grab it!
I can be brave because God is always with me forever.
Really, I'm using this as my book 50 for my sister's manuscript! Although, I do read this bible haha
When I first started looking into reviewing Bibles, the Revolve Devotional Bible for teen girls jumped out at me.
Beautiful color insets, devotions and flourishes across the page add a nice touch.Still, reading the actual text I realize that there was a lot more than just form put into this Bible.
The devotions I found were relevant, timely and synced up well with the scriptures where they were placed.The Bible also contains several full color inserts that delve deeper into issues that are relevant to teens.
I cannot more highly recommend a Bible for teen girls than this one.Review copy provided by the publisher.
The Dad's Bible is published in the New Century Version, meaning it is very easy-to-read and makes comprehension more viable.I had the pleasure of previously reviewing the Mom's Bible: God's Wisdom for Mothers with notes by Robbie Wolgemuth.
We both appreciate the many features: Insights, Godly Character,Walking in Authority, Dads in the Bible, Question and Answer Resource, Passing It On and the Topical Index.Similar to the Mom's Bible, you will find the Question and Answer Resource.
I like the accountability feature called Passing It On because it challenges dads to live their lives in faith and to allow their children to see them living for God. The Dads in the Bible profiles many fathers in both the Old and New Testament.
I *finally* picked it up and started reading on August 1 and my plan is to finish by year's end...I'm on March 15 right now.
Beginning on January 1, I'm going to read through again but more slowly, one day at a time, using my KJV to gain a greater understanding.
I'm excited to start this adventure :)I DID IT!For the first time, I've completely read the Bible and what a great version to have used.
As I mentioned in August, now I will begin again, going one day at a time, using the references and notes, and beginning more of an in-depth study.
I used this Bible all throughout my high school years and some college. It is truly a perfect Bible for teen/young adult women, and becomes a great tool and foundation for a personal relationship with Christ. Every time I read this Bible, I was able to identify with the "daily devos" and I loved learning about "ladies in the Bible." It also offered useful insight on the context/authors/dates of each book of the Bible. I highly recommend this Bible for any teen/young adult woman.
Well it's been a long hard road but I'm getting there. I haven't been as faithful to my daily reading as I should be but I've still managed to read ALOT!!! I decided against reading cover to cover as I got too bogged down in the history so I've been bouncing back and forth from the O.T to the N.T. I don't know if I'll be finished by the 31st as I'd planned but I'm going to try!
So far I've read the New Testament and a chunk of the Old. It's exciting when I find parts that I remember from church, and flooring how much more else there is.
excellent translation. makes sense and at the same time, is elegant enough.
Jesus loves me.
This is a great Bible with lots of good features.
Reading the bible all the way through was tough, but definitely worth it! Seeing the story play out just further builds my faith and belief in my God!
"All Scripture is inspired by God". How could I give it anything less?
This Bible does a great job of showing the links between Christianity and social justice. I like its commentary.
What can I say? God is always 5 stars with me!
It's the bible what can I say, but I like the funky layout and it's very colorful, although I'm not a teen.
I highly recommend this bible for any woman 12 and up. It is simple enough for teens and young students yet deep enough to use as a source for older women and teachers. It's just brilliant!
I'm not really a paraphrase fan, so this version was only OK for me.
This is a basic modern Bible.
Think of this as the Bible for someone with a sixth grade reading level. Not my favorite version.
My favorite translation
Would recommend this to someone just starting their walk with Jesus.
