https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/178159.The_Clue_in_the_Old_Stagecoach
Such a fun and exciting book! Nancy is is danger all the time, and there were a wide variety of suspects, unlike having only like 1 or 2. The wild west theme just makes it more exciting. This book is for any ages who enjoy mystery and adventure!
Yet another great addition to the Nancy Drew mystery book series.
Great Nancy Drew. It had sense of setting which was interesting, a vacation hotel and the time period references to the old west were interesting. There was some fun humorous and campy moments with the girls. The villians were fun and will help give young readers a sense of character traits. The story plot had a poignancy and human interest angle that set it apart from some other mystery stories. The plot was action filled in way more like the first books in the Nancy Drew series!
I love these books because they jump right into the story and they don't make me bored in the beginning or in the middle. Throughout the book things are always happening that make the story intense and gripping. I never get bored of them!
Another delightful little Nancy Drew re-read. However - who is this Rick Larrabee that Nancy is dating while on vacation?!?! She seems to have more chemistry with Rick in the one week she knows him than she's ever had with Ned. Poor Ned.
One of my favorite parts of the Nancy Drew books is there's always a section where you get taught something new--in this book it was about stamps. Additionally, I learned that, at least at the time this was written, swimming ballets were a thing. Who knew?
I enjoyed this one, and do not remember reading this one when I was younger. They actually had trouble finding clues for this one, which is refreshing.
Of course Nancy and Ned could have an open relationship, but really, you have to wonder how much she actually told Camp Boy about her life back home.And while we're on the subject of boys, it kind of undermines Nancy's brave, independent spirit when she says "It's a good thing the real boyfriends are coming, because I have a hunch that this mystery will get dangerous, and we'll need boys around to help." ARGH GIRLS ARE JUST AS CAPABLE AS BOYS.
Bess says something to Nancy about this as Nancy has been very chummy with one boy named Rick.
In reply to Bess, Nancy says something like oh never mind, it will all work out.
A quick synopsis without a spoiler - Nancy is suppose to find an old stagecoach that has a hidden secret in it which hopefully will help a town build a new school which it desperately needs due to a sudden growth in population.
So Nancy and her friends set off to solve the case, but they seem to spend a lot of time doing other things, like dancing and doing water ballets.
Well here's hoping that the next mystery that Nancy finds will be more exciting.
The Clue in the Old Stagecoach  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 37th book in the  Nancy Drew  series. Despite threats against her life, Nancy pursues the search for a clue in an antique stagecoach that may be of great value to the people of Francisville. I’ve always been a voracious reader. So, as a child, one of my favorite things about summer was the frequent trips to our local library, which was less than a mile from our house. Like most young girls of a certain ag
Despite threats against her life, Nancy pursues the search for a clue in an antique stagecoach that may be of great value to the people of Francisville.
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
The town, though, also needs money for a new school and it can't afford that.The bad guys include a man a woman couple who are always asking Nancy questions and following her around, and a guy named Judd Hillary who is basically an idiot.The stagecoach is stolen and Nancy and the others see thugs working on it, but it turns out to be the wrong stagecoach.
There's a second one buried somewhere and it supposedly has a treasure of some kind of it that could help the town get the money it needs for the school.Nancy and the girls have to spend a lot of their time avoiding the couple, avoiding explosions, cave-ins, and buildings that blow up, and doing a whole lot of digging.
Luckily that guy's father becomes gravely ill right before Ned and co show up to help the girls.At some point, the girls have lunch that consists of chicken sandwiches and "molded vegetable salad." I have no idea what that is, and they're visiting an elderly widow, so it could either be something made of gelatin or something made during the Roosevelt administration.They find treasure to help a town build a new school.
At least it wasn't jewels or coins again.Nancy loses consciousness when she pulls a heavy box onto her head.
The Gang of Six loses consciousness when someone sprays them with "sleeping gas" as they're digging out in the open for treasure.
It was just like any other Nancy Drew book that I have read.
This book freaked me out a little because of the people who would explode things to find clues and money leading to the missing stagecoach.
There was also people who would stalk Nancy and watch her every move to make sure she didn’t find the money or another clue before them.
It talked about the olden days when stagecoaches were used for everyday travel for some people and the history behind them.
I would recommend this book and I liked it.

I haven't read a Nancy Drew mystery since I was a child, but after putting together a jigsaw puzzle of a collage of Nancy Drew book covers, I was hit by the nostalgia bug.
So, when I saw one of the Carolyn Keene mysteries at a yard sale, I just had to pick it up.
It took me back to a childhood filled with carefree summer days reading on the front porch, so how could I not like it?
I don't know if young girls today even read these, but if so, they will probably laugh at certain aspects of these books from another generation.
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew. It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain. Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy. No brains. To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation. Carolyn Keene wrote just for me! That is how I felt. When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ... writing under Frank Dixon. I also loved the Hardy Boys. No wonder I loved these series.
My mom loved these books, and after a childhood spent watching Claudia obsess about them in the Babysitters Club books, I was really eager to dive into this world. Unfortunately, while I liked the setting and was intrigued by the summary, it turns out I don't find juvenile investigators very compelling (I didn't have much luck with Trixie Belden either), so I've never read another. Biggest disappointment of my literary life.
Amelia Hurley NOvatny 180 pagesnancy Drew helps a lady help her town and get her uncle's stage coach back. Nancy finds that the stage coach was buried in parts near a wrecked train station. There they think that the clue was stolen right out of her hands, but really, that was a fake. The real clue was 5 blocks of benjamin franklin stamps with the glue still on them. This helps the town build a new school.
I remember reading this book very clearly.. My muthachan had a life membership in the Tvm public library and seeing that i love reading he began bringing me one book out of the 3 books he used to take.This was the 1st book he brought me. He brought this book just before my 6th std annual exam and i was forbidden from reading it until my exams were over. I waited impatiently for my exams to end and finished this book in one go.
This is one of the Nancy Drew books I got for Christmas, to add to my collection. Since I didn't own it, I hadn't had a chance to read it before. As always, The Clue in the Old Stagecoach was an interesting mystery. Though I strongly feel that in real life Nancy Drew would need to fail once in a while. Also- how is she not dead yet?
My parents ran a group home for 7 mentally retarded teenagers as part of their jobs at a private school run by my father's brother in the late 1960s into the early 1970s. I found a carton of Nancy Drew books in the basement of the house we were given as part of the deal; I dived in and read them all. My favorites were the first 10 books.
This is the very first Nancy Drew that I ever read...I was sick or had hurt myself and so was pretty immobile and my parents got it to keep me quiet. For the next few years the only things I wanted were books as gifts--Nancy Drew...
This Nancy Drew was full of lots of action and adventure, for sure! Nancy and her friends Bess and George were staying at a camp for a week or two and stumbled upon a great mystery! You have to read it!
This was a really good book! I couldn't stop reading it! The story keeps you in suspense, and the mystery was very intriguing. Although there was little action and the culprits being painfully obvious, i really enjoyed this mystery and would definitely recommend this to any nancy drew fans!
A town really needs to find money. There is a clue of where to find a lot of money in an old stagecoach. The problem is there are many old stagecoaches around. Can Nancy find the right one before a thief does? And can she find out who the thief is?
Bought recently to add to my collection. I read a good number of Nancy Drews, some almost 20 years ago. I couldn't name all the ones I did read, but I know I didn't read this one. The plot is rather bland, but the camp Nancy and co. are staying in sounds fun.
This Nancy Drew book I always hold dear to my heart. It was the last one for me to get, and I had all of the other ones. I got this one for Christmas when I was 8, and I read it as fast as I could. A pretty good book if you are young, and not so aware that Nancy is a little too "Mary-Sue-ish".
book 37
fast paced another good one.
As an adult who never read Nancy Drew as a child I didn't know how to critique the book. Since I have no criticism I rated it as such.
