https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76811.Borders_of_Infinity
It is actually very easy for the authors to confuse their readers.
Now the author realized (s)he has not done with the trilogy universe, but nobody in their right mind would write a sequel to spoil that perfection I mentioned.
Now the inevitable confusion about the reading order comes: chronological, or publication?
I read enough book of the series to state it is excellent.
To make a long story short nothing ever goes smooth for poor guy.The Borders of Infinity.Miles infiltrated a high security Cetagandian prison to help one very important for Barrayar Empire guy escape.
Have I mentioned nothing ever goes smooth for Miles?
Here is my theory - and if anyone besides me has noticed this, I haven't read about it, so it's just begging for a English term paper to be written on it - I think that Lois McMaster Bujold's novella The Borders of Infinity is (among other things) a riff on Dante's Inferno.
The Borders of Infinity opens with Miles Vorkosigan thinking, "How could I have died and gone to hell without noticing the transition?" Hell.
(Term paper people: is this evidence against the thesis put forth in point 8?) 10.
"The Mountains of Mourning" is the first story & comes directly after The Warrior's Apprentice & before The Vor Game, so I listened to just it.
As another story to establish Miles' personality & the world he lives in, it was excellent.
Having known horses like Ninny & the others, they added a lot to the story for me.
On to The Vor Game.Labyrinth is 3 novels after the first story in this collection.
This story is actually better on a re-read.
Twisty, tricky Miles is so much fun.
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my GIFTS AND GUILTY list.Regardless of how many books are already queued patiently on my reading list, unexpected gifts and guilt-trips will always see unplanned additions muscling their way in at the front.I had scheduled this to be read several weeks ago, bu
Not so here.This is a collection of three Miles novellas, bound together (loosely) with a bit of Miles/Illyan banter about mission budgets - sounds fascinating, I know, but it suffices as a bridging device.
Plus, it gives Miles a bit of distance on these stories for a couple of heart-ouchie zingers in his reflections.Now, it's worth mentioning (if you've not heard me say it before) that I'm reading this fourteen (so far) book saga out of order.
This is my favourite story of the three, and for me it filled in the question mark a later book, 
It’s a nice bit of connective tissue to incorporate the book into the larger Miles Vorkosigan Saga.I read this back in 1989 when it first came out and really enjoyed the three stories, “Mountains of Mouring”, “Labyrinth”, and “Borders of Infinity”.
It’s a bit implausible like of Miles’ adventures, but as always he does things with such impish charm and chutzpah that it’s hard to resist going along and suspending belief.
This is also a crucial story in the larger Miles Vorkosigan Saga as it has major repercussions for the successive novel in the series, Brothers in Arms.
Three short stories/novellas with a tacked on story to tie them together. The first story was strong but sad, the second fun but forgettable, and the third was pretty damn amazing.
This book is an anthology of three novellas about the life of the young Miles Vorkosigan.
Miles is an officer in the space navy.
He was crippled at birth, has fragile bones and is short in stature.
So, instead of using his strength, he must survive with his wits.
He has an ability to think outside the box, and exhibit not a little bit of chutzpah.
If you are a science fiction fan, then the series of novels by Lois McMaster Bujold is a must read.
I didn't read this book--I listened to the audiobook, narrated by Grover Gardner.
He is an excellent narrator!
5.0 stars. The best Miles Vorkosigan stories of them all are contained in this book (and that is saying A LOT). The Mountains of Mourning was AMAZING. Highly Recommended.
I wrote/will write the notes about every story on their own sites but here I wanted to put a few words about how this book is constructed, namely the little scenes in the hospital where Simon Illyan talks with Miles and we also get a hint of Cordelia. Believe me, they are very short, they don’t introduce much new stuff and yet they are worth reading because Illyan! Cordelia! And one beautiful sentence about Simon and Aral that made me shiver. (I can’t help it.)
Her pacing is good, too.I'm becoming fixated on Miles Vorkosigan, a brilliant mind in a brittle body.
His parents want an end to infanticide, but it's been the norm to kill deformed babies for so long, ever since that terrible time of radiation poisoning.
4 stars ======= My reviews of this series (*favorites):  Shards of Honor review*Barrayar review*The Warrior's Apprentice reviewThe Vor Game reviewCetaganda reviewThe Mountains of Mourning reviewLabyrinth review*Borders of Infinity reviewBrothers in Arms reviewMirror Dance review*Memory review*Miles in Love: Komarr, A Civil Campaign, Winterfair Gifts review*Komarr reviewDiplomatic Immunity reviewCaptain Vorpatril's Alliance reviewCryoburn review
Great character development through three linked novellas about young Miles Vorkosigan working his way along in his military career in Bujold's outstanding space opera series.
In "Mountains of Mourning", he is tasked while on leave by his Prime Minister father to serve as judge and detective in a case of infanticide in a rural backwater on his home world of Barrayar.
In "Labyrinth", he has to infiltrate a prison camp of an empire at war with Barrayar as preparation for a rescue of the 10,000 prisoners by his mercenary fleet.
These tales were also bundled with "The Vor Game" in "Vorkosigan's Game".
This is during the early stages of his career, best to read sometime before the midpoint of the series, as it is briefly referred back to in the later books.Labrynth - Miles and the Dendarii are sent to collect a geneticist who wants to defect to the Barrayar from Jackson's Whole.
This is a good one to read before reading the other Dendarii adventures with Taura in them.Borders of Infinity - Miles is dropped into an unescapable prison camp.
Classic Miles, at his wily best!Haven't read the 'debriefing' storyline used around them to pull them into this book, will have to go back and pick that up.
A collection of three very different short stories from Miles Vorkosigan's colourful military and political history, linked by a framing story that seems a bit thin in terms of logistics and character motivation, but works well enough to link them all together.
Even if Miles's galloping libido in the 2nd and 3rd stories does occasionally make me want to smack him.Three and a quarter stars, since I like it a bit less than CETAGANDA and a bit more than VOR GAME?
Miles, with his usual flair. Three stories, framed by an interview with his boss.The first one is a murder mystery on Barrayar, where Miles gets to unravel an infanticide case -- that being a burning issue. And two more when he's with the Dendarii, pulling off capers. (The frame story revolves about how the last two involved -- unexpected expenses.) Both are rescues, but very different in plot. And scope.Some effects you will see results of in other books.
The Mountains of Mourning: 5 starsLabyrinth: 3 starsThe Borders of Infinity: 5 stars
Had already read 2 of the 3 novellas, but the title tale was new to me, as was the framing "story".Anything that includes Mountains of Mourning gets at least 4 stars.
This collection of novellas contain my favorite of all the Miles stories, the novella called The Mountains of Mourning.
It’s a rollicking, happy-ending story about the serious topic of genetic engineering.The final novella was of most interest to me, having just finished reading Brothers in Arms, which takes place very soon after the events related in Borders of Infinity.
Miles’s guide, named Suegar, has a page from a book that he calls Scripture, which I’m almost certain is from Bunyan’s The Pilgrim’s Progress.There are probably other parallels that I didn’t pick up, but it seems like too many to be coincidence.So, stars?
5++++Labyrinth gets 3Borders of Infinity gets 5.I’m going to round it up to 5 for the collection.
This is a collection of three previously released novellas now published together with a connecting thread in which Miles is being investigated for treason.
"Mountains of Mourning" is a serious tale of Miles' trip into backwards rural Barrayar to investigate a case of infanticide - due to birth defect.
It shares with the first story the thematic question, "What does it mean to be normal?""The Borders of Infinity" finds Miles prisoner in an especially nasty prison camp.
(There are a few Dante references also.)I gave the collection 2 stars because I prefer Miles in his cocky, adventurous mode, not the more somber tones of these stories.
These three novella length stories share a common themes, but you can tell they were not written with that in mind.
Due to a terrorist act Miles suffers from a degenerative bone disease in a society that views physical defects with disdain.
The first story is a whodunit, that I reviewed separately.The second, Labrynth, he has to rescue a scientist who wants to defect.
In the process he meets a monster of "genetics gone wild" and there is no way you would believe me if I tell you what happens.
Miles truly has the "right stuff".
Miles Vorkosigan's learning curve is very steep and very cranky.
I enjoyed all three of the novellas in the collection a lot.The Mountains of Mourning: 3.75 starsA sad little mystery that gives us more insight into Barrayaran culture outside of the nobility.Labyrinth: 3.5 starsA fun heist story, and an introduction to a fascinating character who I understand will make more appearances later in the series (Taura).Borders of Infinity: 5 starsMiles ends up in a Cetagandan prison camp for reasons that are unclear at the beginning of the story. This might be my favorite Miles story of the series so far.
Mountains of Mourning - 5 stars.Labyrinth - 5 stars.Borders of Infinity - 3 stars.Overall 4 star rating.
A great collection of Vorkosigan novellas that follow Miles in a few shorter adventures. It includes a murder mystery, a heist and a prison story. Great variety to show off more of Miles' character.
-------The three novellas comprising this book are all thought-provoking and disturbing in different ways.
The insights into Miles's character that are gained by reading all three novellas at once completely justify the repackaging of them in this format.Final note--I listened to this as an audiobook narrated by Grover Gardner and I am beginning to really appreciate him as a narrator for this series.
It's a somewhat different style of narration than I'm used to, but it has grown on me, primarily because most of these books are largely from Miles's perspective and Gardner does a great Miles, perfectly capturing his rather sardonic wit.
The main plot is basically a whodunit, involving Miles being clever and making some nice statements about disability and euthanasia, but my favourite part of the story were the scenes where Miles mourned his grandfather Piotr, and the ones involving horses -- not an obvious link, but if you recall from the epilogue of Barrayar, horses were the basis of building a relationship for Piotr and little Miles.
The fact that Piotr does come to love Miles but can't truly move past the ableism embedded in his Barrayaran views is a sad and realistic bit of human detail, which adds depth in typical Bujold fashion.I first read "Labyrinth" in the eighth grade, and recall being a bit confused by the rather atypical sex scene.
I always enjoy Jackson Hole, and I thought the feuding lords of the underworld mixed with solid action sequences made it a very entertaining short story.
However, the story itself that was there was solid and entertaining.
Though things progress, actions rarely feel they have more than immediate consequences, and I wish we just got more progression of the races and the world rather than just Miles as a character.
I just feel so much of this world is being wasted by essentially throwaway action stories, which though entertaining, I struggle to fully connect beyond the superficial.
Borders of Infinity (the novella within this collection) is perhaps one of the best things I've ever read.
I venture to say that it's my favorite piece of Vorkosigan writing that exists, and that's a HEAVY STATEMENT coming from me because I'm a groupie.
In fact, I'm willing to say that Borders of Infinity (the final novella in this bunch) is my favorite story from the Vorkosigan universe.
It is just so well done.If you haven't read all the books that come before these stories in Miles' chronology, I don't recommend this book.
It's Essence of Miles, without some of the external stuff from his Naismith adventures (and without an Amazon he can try to make Lady Vorkosigan, which gets on my nerves sometimes).
It's also a missing piece: Miles deals with anti-mutant prejudice from the backcountry folks, his military peers, and the Vor in entirely different ways.
Compare that to Miles in "Warrior's Apprentice" where he's sure every second his plan will fall apart.I wish there'd been more of the interstitial stuff.
Simon's odd relationship with Miles!
It's in this volume, but I can't remember the name of it.Labyrinth is a story where Miles has to retrieve some genetic material; he is astounded to learn that the material is part of a super soldier created by committee...The Mountains of Mourning is his investigation of an infanticide in his district's own Dendarii Mountains.I especially appreciate how Bujold's characters grow and learn over the course of the series.
I admire Miles and his parents very much; they are ethical people in the best sense.I do disagree with the characters' sex lives; to me integrity requires monogamy with an official certificate.
Miles has the best of both: his principle is doing what is best for people.
Tres novelas cortas sobre las aventuras del Almirante Naismith y el Vor Miles.
De las que no se pueden parar de leer.Son historias dramáticas, vas a sufrir lo mismo que sufre Miles y en esta ocasión, va más allá del dolor físico.
Miles empieza en estas historias a darse cuenta de que dirigir gentes es sentirlos a cada uno como a sí mismo y a cada pérdida como una pequeña muerte interior.También tenemos aquí explicado el origen de Taura, recluta que resultará de no poco interés en historias posteriores.Cada historia es bien distinta, el hilo conductor es una conversación de Miles con Illián acerca de los gastos de los Dendarii.Una vez más, una obra imprescindible, como todas las de Vorkosigan.
