https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/210785.My_Ears_Are_Bent
The introductory chapter, in which Mitchell summarizes his decade of experience is a magical thing of beauty.It dovetails nicely into one of the most hilarious chapters in the book: A portrait of a chaotic dive bar near the Brooklyn Bridge that would not be out of place in a Marx Brothers movie, where the "cop's bottle," reserved for enjoyment of New York's Finest, was actually an accumulation of the dregs and swill of other patrons' unfinished drinks.Along the way, Mitchell introduces us to early strippers, oyster fishermen, entertainers, musicians, sports stars, preachers, Harlem cops, drug users, voodoo practitioners, con men, erstwhile poets, a pickpocket, an Italian grandmother, a cantankerous blind Jewish tailor, and many more.
Actually, he still wrote, he just never finished anything, which for Jospeh Mitchell is saying something because he used to sometimes write 3 features a day for the Herald Tribune and New York World-Telegram back in the 1930s.
I’m not saying Jospeh Mitchell’s pieces aren’t factual, but I am saying that it doesn’t matter because they read like fiction, meaning they convey more, and leave you with the feeling of more, than a simple report or personal profile normally might do.
I read this as research into the decades of twentieth century America. Mitchell has an engaging voice and the ability to capture someone's character, as well as a sense of the atmosphere. I haven't read much of his later and more in-depth essays, and look forward to those. For me, an added plus was the description of Huey P. Long, a legend in my home state, Louisiana.
Enjoyable vignettes from 1930s New York, some of the episodes such as those describing the bars and taverns, the clubs and the colourful characters that inhabit them from the proprietors to the burlesque dancers and the classes and the distinctions are more memorable than others which deal with characters from the world of sports or cartoon journalists who are long forgotten and very much of the time.
My good friend Jim Paris recommended Joseph Mitchell to me because he was a precursor to John McPhee as a great feature writer for the New Yorker magazine, and so he is.
But although Mitchell and McPhee are both highly accomplished in their craft, they are very different in the subjects about which they write.
McPhee writes (mainly) about unusual but "civilized" people of great accomplishment.
Not great but a good early peek at the greatness to come later when Mitchell went to work for the NYer and became released from the deadlines of a beat reporter. Some of these pieces are entertaining, but they read like what they are -- newspaper stories -- and not the true literature of the NYer essays. Not sure I'd recommend this to anyone who hasn't read the mature Mitchell of Up in the Old Hotel.
He features an ASCAP inspector, a lady boxer, and there's a delightful series of interviews of burlesque strippers and fan-dancers, some of them subsequently famous.One of my favorites is the sardonic essay that makes something out of what is really nothing, "No Saturday Night Sin on the Night Line".
So Mitchell takes the first trip of the season, on the aptly-named Trojan, and finds "The creaking old side-wheeler made a tranquil run, transporting forty-nine sedate beer-drinking passengers and a cargo of hides and wood pulp from Pier 52 in Manhattan, hard by the chicken and duck sheds of Gansevoort Market, to Steamboat Square in Albany.
If you fear that the internet and social media are homogenizing culture to a dull mundane vain blob read this book and indulge in a time period of true melting pot variety in 1930’s New York.My ears are bent are the stories and articles of one Joseph Mitchel a true newspaper reporter of the Big Apple.
The nonchalance in how New Yorkers press on in the face of adversity is inspiring.Then again if you are one that doesn’t fear that the internet and social media are homogenizing culture, then continue to take taxis driven by apps to the latest fine dining in a food truck your phone told you about and seek approval for self portraits from your peers vapid likes in hopes that you will do the same for them.
Especially enjoyed the descriptions of people and the stories about wrestling and cartoonists.Notes:Foreward, photo of him reading a newspaper, with foot on knee.5....Walk Harlem at 3 am, discovering what the depression and prurience of white men were doing to a people who are last to be hired, first to be fired.12...Aimee Semple McPherson...they're always amusing, frustrated, spiteful old actresses on the down grade.25...drunks ...
47 when papers run lots of stories about strippers the reformers throw catfits.64...nudism ...
King Kong , Gorilla Man, 107...I'm in show business like Ringling.
the public wants freaks, a good laughnot like prize fighting, where best man wins ...
Excellent. Can anyone recommends a good follow-up book by Joseph Mithcell--are there any more great compilations like this one? Cheers:)
Remember when I read The 40s which was a collection of articles from The New Yorker?
However, this collection of articles is from his time before when he wrote for The World-Telegram and The Herald Tribune.
This is the kind of book that makes you want to go out and grab history books of this time period (1930-40s) so you can give more context to the snippets that Mitchell gifts the reader.
If you enjoy nonfiction, history, and New York in the 1930s then this is the book for you.
One of the owners did not like that word.”On the subject of copyreaders:“They will cut the word “belly” out of your copy and write in the nauseating word “tummy”.
Pimp referred to as “a representative of the vice ring.” “raped” … always comes out “criminally attacked.”“There is no fury which can equal the black fury which bubbles up in a reporter when he sees his name signed to a story which has been castrated by a copyreader or one of the officials on the city desk.”I probably should not have tried to read this book all at once, I should have broken it up with other reading, as it is I will have to read a book a day to catch up, but I do not regret reading My Ears Are Bent, it was fascinating.
Zeitungen, die mit Sex-Themen Auflage machen und sich gleichzeitig als Moralapostel aufspielen; Sekten, die den Menschen Seelenheil versprechen, hinter denen sich aber in Wirklichkeit mächtige Wirtschaftsunternehmen verbergen; Personen, die in angeblich anrüchigen Metiers arbeiten, aber die moralisch den Reichen und Mächtigen weit überlegen sind.
Nein, Joseph Mitchell beschreibt als Reporter das New York der 30er Jahre – mit viel Lokalkolorit und historischen Details.
Und dennoch zeigt sich immer wieder die Zeitlosigkeit seiner Beobachtungen von Menschen und Milieus.Manche Aussagen und Beobachtungen wiederholen sich, was ganz offenkundig daran liegt, dass Mitchell sie in verschiedenen Artikeln verwendetet und die vorliegende Ausgabe nicht darauf aufmerksam macht, wenn Artikel hier kombiniert wurden.
Ansonsten eine auch wunderbar gestaltete Ausgabe mit einem sehr hilfreichen Glossar.

Joseph Mitchell wrote a lot of feature stories for New York newspapers in the 1930s.
They are uniformly examples of taut elegance in writing and of curiosity about that city at that time.
If people weren't allowed to lead countries unless they could write at least half as well, we'd all be better off.
Only good journalism of Mitchell's sort can give a feeling for the wrinkles of real life that make up the past.
Some of the stories are about famous people; even they are presented as living, breathing entities like the more obscure inhabitants of the city.
While anyone interested in Joseph Mitchell should start with Up in the Old Hotel, this volume of early journalism--from nearly the entire decade of the 30s--is a worthy read for the established Mitchell fan.
But these are small quibbles.Mitchell and his publisher were certainly flirting with sensationalism when they loaded the front of the book with the sections on New York’s strippers, various burlesque gals, and kookie preachers.
But I found the best stuff to be in the “Biggest City in the World” and “It’s a Living” sections.
And, of course, the end pieces on George Bernard Shaw are among the most amusing in the book.

I truly wonderful little book by a guy that became a famous New Yorker writer.
The glimpse into 30's New York is nothing short of riveting and fascinating.
I was once an investigator for ASCAP many years ago and had some hilarious and scary moments in the "music police" force.
I was amazed to see a section called ASCAP INVESTIGATOR written in the 30's and it described my job to a tee.
Anyway, despite my autobiographical attraction to this book I recommend it to everyone.
A great slice of New York life, before it was taken over by Disney.
What a great title!
This is an anthology of Mitchell’s pre-New Yorker newspaper work, all done in the 1930s.
A crisp, colorful writer, Mitchell’s subjects range from marginal to the mainstream, Harlem voodoo practitioners and world’s fair exotic dancers (read, strippers) to two of the Great Georges of theater: George M.
The best essays are the later ones about oyster men and other working stiffs but all have the tart, cigarette and whiskey flavor of back in the day New York.
Who knows, if read closely, your hands might even end up stained with newsprint.
I'm a fan of Joseph Mitchell because of the early 90's reissue of "Up In The Old Hotel".
I'm reading all of his books and although this is very good, I would not recommend it as an introduction to his writing.
The storieswere first printed as newspaper stories, which adds to their charm, if you consider that most of them are about colorful eccentrics and plainspoken residents of NYC that would not otherwise be featured in a newspaper.
Of the Mitchell books I've read to date, I get the sense from this book that Mitchell was a more "ornery" character in these early years.
The first four or five chapters are the best of Mitchell's work in this collection, where Mitchell lets genuinely interesting people tell their own stories.
The shorter pieces and the profiles of people like George Bernard Shaw and George M.
Cohan aren't nearly as interesting (which might say something about Shaw and Cohan).
At his best, Mitchell had empathy, a gift for letting people speak for themselves and a lack of condescension - the profile of Dick's Bar and Grill and his discussion of insanity with Gilligan Holton, onetime owner of the Broken Leg and Busted Bar & Grill are amazing.
Joseph Mitchell is justly famous for his long-form journalism about old coots, bums, and eccentrics in and around New York. This is a collection of short newspaper items from early in his careers, but the understated wisecracking style that makes him delightful is on full exhibit, even if the character sketches are more cursory than in-depth. Even so, his writing brims with compassion for the marginal and his eye for charmingly off-beat is keen as they come. A worthwhile read for anyone and everyone.
A fascinating collection of one NYC reporter's newspaper articles from the 30s. Particularly loved his tales about bars, Coney Island freakshows and burlesque shows... "I believe that the most interesting human beings, so far as talk is concerned, are anthropologists, farmers, prostitutes, psychiatrists, and an occasional bartender [...] The only people I do not care to listen to are society women, industrial leaders, distinguished authors, ministers, explorers, moving picture actors and any actress under the age of thirty-five." Brilliant.
A really interesting read. It is actually a series of newspaper column the author wrote while living in New York during the 30's and 40s. The famous, the infamous and the nonentities are all covered here with a gentle yetsharp eye. Richly evocative of the time period (The Great Depression) the columns are both funny, sweet, sad and thought provoking. I am on to his next book, Up in the Old Hotel.
Mitchell's early work in the NYC dailies in the 1930s bears many of the hallmarks of his later stuff, but it is thinner and tighter (befitting of newspaper columns), and much more reliant on straight recitation of subjects' quotes, with far less of Mitchell's gorgeous description (which was obviously more fitting in long New Yorker pieces). Treat this book as an appetizer to the main course of Up in the Old Hotel, one of the most sumptuous collections, fiction or non, in all of literature.
read this book and you'll get a good flavor of what kind of a city old new york was (and probably like it is somewhere, sorta, today). the style is descriptive, but not overly so, and many of these pieces were worked into longer stories later in time (from what i understand)... but the treatment here is quick, and only a few stories really stand out.. a quick read, enjoyable if you have a spare moment.
A good read for anyone interested in twentieth century history and anecdotes as the book is made up of previously published newspaper articles from Mitchell's career as a reporter. I really enjoyed Mitchell's tone, and he fully explored each of his subjects, leaving no detail untapped. The title is perfect!
Truly a collection of stories to make you nostalgic for a time and a place you never knew. A deeply moving and elegantly phrased chronicle of the misfits, the blue collar, and the generally overlooked of New York City in the early 20th century.
I picked up this book because I think my grandparents might have worked for the author (as his cook and butler/chauffeur). I thought it was a good document of a side of NY that might not have been otherwise captured. I look forward to reading more of his work.
this book is full of astute observations about NY and New Yorkers from all walks of life. It also introduces various celebrities and trend of the time. I recommend looking up some of these while you read the book. hopefully it will make more NY history aficionados out there.
