https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/282096.Fallon
Chuck Norris prays to Macon Fallon.
Well, I took my sweet old time reading this book, set it aside for a few days after getting into chapter one so I could get some writing done.
It had everything I was wanting, the Western setting, the hero who seems all tough and bad but is really a good guy on the inside, the tiny little sprinkle of a love interest, and some action.
I liked how the story had the hero resettling a ghost town, and how he found loyal men to stand with him to strike the bad gang down.
A classic 1963 oater by prolific Western writer Louis L'Amour. I had read that Fallon was one of his best and it did not disappoint. If you were a fan of the Maverick TV series back in the day, you will enjoy this tale of a self described unscrupulous con man, card shark and drifter who against his will discovers he does have scruples.
Had a down day, sick in bed. And Louis L'Amour came through for me, as always. A solid western, with his deft characterization, excellent descriptiong and knowledge of all things western.
Audio from OverDrive narrated by Jason CulpIt was everything that I wanted and expected.When closed my eyes while listening, I visualized this story in the style of the great black and white movies that I grew up on. For the younger Hd folk, that was when art direction was mainly about lighting. No CGI then.So experience a lengthy old movie without profanity, explicit sex and violence, and cigarette commercials. "Call for Philip Morris"
The Old West came alive in this combination of light, yet gritty quintessential western historical that boasted all the good stuff with a wily gambling man, an abandoned ghost town, a not to be fooled beauty, robbers, gold mines, good folk traveling west, and the biggest gamble there could be.Fallon opens with Macon Fallon just two-steps ahead of a posse and dying of thirst when he comes upon a broken down pair of wagons headed west for the gold fields of California.
He'll talk these good people into fronting his attempt to sell off worthless mining claims to build up his stake so he can finally quit wandering and settle down somewhere like San Francisco.
Here is how I explain this book. A-W-E-S-O-M-E !! This is like.....my favorite Louis L'Amour ever!! I know I say that about a bunch of them, but this is serious. I mean this book was like, awesome!!! Yeah, so you should all read this book. Definitely.
Fallon is the 4th book written by Louis L'Amour that I have read this year.
Normally, that's about my max for L'Amour each year because I have other westerns on my “To Be Read” shelf by other authors.
But I'm plum out (that's a little western expression there) and only have L'Amour books there now.
That tells me I read a lot of books, or else I'm just getting old.
Ever since I fell in love with the Sackett family in my teen years, I’ve been reading L’Amour westerns (as well as a few of his non-western adventure stories).
This is the third of three books I'm reading in a row by Louis L'Amour and it is certainly the best.The story seems to be taking a direction that it angles from and takes the reader on a journey of a man's self discovery.
What adds so much to the story is that the reader also learns much about the main character.
The thoughts about the character at first are likely to be different by the end of the book.The writing is top notch.
L'Amour builds this story differently than the two I just read before it.The characters are well written.
Say what you will about L'Amour's writing style, this is one engaging western. At times it seems as though I actually felt the dust and grit, and actually heard the six-guns and ricochets. The western is my favorite film genre, but even after setting that clear bias aside, it's a wonder that this short, sharp book hasn't yet been turned into a marketable screenplay. It seems like the story would write itself.
probably one of my favorite L'Amour novels. I never want to stop saying "grease your skids and stack your duds, for I shall down your meat-house" at inappropriate times. I'm not entirely convinced there ever was an appropriate time.a little disappointed to find out he uses the line in other books too, but still.
I'm a sucker for old fashioned westerns ... especially as told by Louis L'Amour. Fallon is a simple character study of a man in the wild west. This book contains gamblers, escape from hangings, conniving, ranching, Indian fights, outlaws, love, marriage and the building of a ghost town into a viable city. Easy read and highly recommended for anyone who wants to relax with a western!
I recently discovered another library near my home and they have an entire bookshelf devoted to Louis L'Amour. Yay! I read all of his books when I was twelve and it has been a pleasure to become reacquainted. Fallon is a fun, action-filled western. The descriptions of the west and of the society that was being built are a bonus, as the plot is pretty straightforward.
BestOne of his best books because of the sly humor in it. Also no pretentious pronouncements, or any attempts to show knowledge about various subjects. a few of his books have that and are only saved by a good story line
Read most of Louis Lamour's books when I was in my late teens and early twenties. They are important to me as they were some of the first books that got me into the reading habit. For that I shall be forever grateful
One of Louis' finer works and one I have never read before. Like many of his other stories, it does not fit the "typical western" stereotype and is action-packed and fast-paced. A good read for people who are not crazy about Westerns or for someone who has never read a book by this author.
Louis L'Amour was one of the best western folklore writers ever to pick up a pen. I don't think I've ever read a book that I didn't enjoy, some multiple times. Fallon didn't disappoint me. Great book.
A clever anti-hero, Fallon backs himself into a corner trying for a big score, and winding up the protector of the entire town, and with the most original shotgun wedding I think I've ever read to finish it all up.
One of the best L'Amour books I have ever read. This one really has a good sense of humor (a la Maverick) as a conman essentially cons himself. Highly recommended to all types of readers.
One of my favourite Louis L'Amour books. Unlike most of the others, this one has a dash of humour. The concept of a ghost town coming back to life is enchanting. This is one to read again and again.
That ending, though. I laughed so hard. Not your typical Western romance!
L'Amour, so far as I've determined, wrote one great book ("The Lonesome Gods") and a few good ones.
Spoiler alert: His hero is a loner who invariably triumphs over the guys in black hats -- saving the day/town/ranch/whatever -- against all odds and gets the hottie.
It's like he had a "Louis L'Amour novel generator" program to pump them out most days.
I read him on occasion when my brain has overdosed on serious books and reality for too long a spell.
And for just putting the brain in neutral and reading a story that requires no thinking, L'Amour is sometimes the right prescription.
This story tells how a gambler and drifter founds a town and makes a home for himself and others.
True to L'Amour's heroic Western style, Fallon is good at all things: he out-plays a card shark, out-fights a wrestler, out-guns a band of outlaws.
But he also draws a collection of good and solid men to himself, and it's clear the playing, fighting, and gunning depends on the friendship that binds him to these others.
Long before Fallon admits it to himself, the reader knows he has found a home.
Fun little book, about a gambler/con man who sets out to swindle folks with a dead mine, and instead ends up building a thriving town out of nothing.
All by accident, because the point was to build it up enough to ditch it as soon as he found a buyer.
But step by step, as he kept doing tasks and chores and projects to ensure that the town was good enough to fool people....he ended up actually protecting it and ensuring that the town would do great!
A great example of an accidental hero, and it only takes a day or two to read.
This was a nice read. The only thing that bothered me was the fact that the ghost town he led the settlers to was deserted to even leaving glasses, windows, and cooking utensils behind. Glass ware was so had to come by that no one would leave unbroken glasses behind when they left. Other than a couple of other minor items, it was an outstanding western and a good and easy read. Enjoyed it a lot.
Excellent western novel by Louis L'Amour. Well written, well developed, and entertaining. It is a shorter book but full of action to keep the reader engaged.
Great western reading with a bit of historyVery enjoyable reading and worthy of the time to read. Thanks to the author and his very good knowledge of western history.
This book is politically incorrect with a genre that is outdated, has manly bravery, manly romance and entirely the wrong hormones. That is why I enjoyed it so much.
Is there a Fallon Fan Club somewhere? If so, let me know so I can join it. :)
Another l’amour page turnerGood read....keeps moving and definitely keeps your interest.Not much more to be said...just trying to get the minimum number of words required
