https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121185.The_Man_of_the_Forest
As I read about Tom, I couldn't help but think of an Oscar winning movie several years ago called "Unforgiven." I was also astounded at the mastery Grey used in describing the emotional and moral conflict of the outlaws in various incidents during the book, which makes the reader understand that most people have both good and evil within their complex natures.
O Lord, lead the way across the naked range of the future no mortal knows!" Overall not a perfect book, but for me it gets a five.
Although he started out as a cowboy and still occasionally visits the village of Pine, 30-year-old Milt Dale prefers the solitary life of a hunter.
Beasley hires Anson to kidnap his rival Al Auchincloss’s young niece who is headed west to help her dying uncle run the ranch.
Beasley figures that if she disappears his way will be clear to take over Auchincloss’s ranch.
After trying unsuccessfully to warn Auchincloss, Dale surprises himself by deciding to pre-empt Anson by catching Helen Raynor before she boards the stagecoach at Magdalena.
Youve no idea how difficult it is to come across a Zane Grey book that is not Riders of the Purple Sage - nothin' wrong with RotPS, but once you read that book (and if you love western books like I do) you thirst for more.
Purple Sage just isnt enough.
This was the second book of his that I read and not being familiar with his other stories, I was a bit surprised at the laconic way Grey takes his time in telling the story while letting us inside the head of the main character.
Very well-written, descriptive, and captivating. Grey does well developing several different characters in the story, including Dale, Helen, Bo, and the cowboy Las Vegas. It's interesting how a lot of the hero's role is given to Las Vegas in the climax of the action. The author demonstrates the contrast between a man of the woods and a cowboy. Very interesting.
Profound & Rewarding AdventureHooked early with a well constructed drama, the underlying spiritual theme gave pause to how the West was won by the physically determined and morally strong.
I've read several Zane Grey novels and so far this is my favorite.
Comes a tale from a master story-teller of the old West who died in 1939 but whose stories have inspired scores of Hollywood Movies.
Others, such as the heroes of this tale took to the forest to escape the cabals of organized society.
Heroes have fought on behalf of damsels in distress in sagas as old as history.
The descriptive writing here evokes a time and place with loving detail.
To further place this story in time the Mexican Grey Wolf native to Arizona was extirpated around the turn of the 1900’s not to be re-introduced until 1998.
This book paints an idealized picture of the West, which is not realistic but nor intended to be. (It is my first Zane Gray novel, but I gather that such idealization is a common theme of his.) The extremes of virtue vs. vice in the characters was still off-putting for me, as was the casual acceptance of bigotry which, in fairness to Grey, was the norm for that time and place. The writing's strongest point is the descriptions of nature, among the best I have ever seen.
A beautiful portrait of man and nature. Brings out the spirit and romance of the Wild West.You can smell the forest and the plains. And drink in the beauty. This book was as fast paced as a mustang.
A great tale of the Old West, set in Arizona. Read when I was a kid, junior high age, more or less. Milt Dale, the man of the forest, gets wind that the bad guys are going to kidnap the niece of a local rancher, he thwarts their plot and the story goes from there.
Just too dated for me which is surprising since I really enjoy a lot of historical fiction from that era. If you're interested in old views of iconic "man of the west" then this might be up your alley.
ExcellentBeautifully written. Wonderful descriptions of the forest and country side. Very good characters which come alive. Expected ending as it came but would have been disappointed had it ended otherwise.
This book was a very pleasant surprise. It was unexpectedly lovely and emotional. It lost a star though for its stereotypical depiction of Native Americans and Mexicans. That's probably how people wrote back then, but I still didn't like it.
Flowing, beautiful, thoughtful prose. Paints a picture of the old West that draws you in and helps you understand that rugged, dangerous world.A perfect example of the Western genre. Guns and glory. Rugged, real and beautiful. Lose your self in the old west.
This was the first western I have read in a while and it was a pleasant read. It could have kept me more engaged but part of that was my fault.
First Audio book to which I have listen.
Well paced with wonderful descriptions of the wilderness.Great character development and a nice storyline. The old west was described in detail and you felt like you were there.
Moja prva knjiga
I also enjoyed all the wild animal pets that Milt Dale kept - it reminded me of the TV series "Grizzley Adams." I think I would've enjoyed the book much more if I'd read it younger.
I liked Milt Dale and Bo Rayner, even if she didn't have much sense.
Milt Dale, says that his religion is nature instead of "the Bible kind," because the Bible doesn't keep people from acting immorally.
And to live always in the silence of wild places was to become obsessed with self- to think and dream - to be happy, which state, however pursued by man, was not good for him."
"I understand you," he replied presently.
Remember that blood is life.
It would be good for you to have it run an' beat an' burn, as Bo's did.
Your blood did that a thousand years or ten thousand before intellect was born in your ancestors.
Instinct may not be greater than reason, but it's a million years older.
Don't fight your instincts so hard.
If they were not good the God of Creation would not have given them to you.
You couldn't forget yourself.
You couldn't feel only, as Bo did.
You couldn't be true to your real nature."
I like Zane Grey books.
When reading a Zane Grey book one has to realize they were written a long time ago - in this case 1920.
The conversations between characters is written phonetically like people talked back then which makes reading difficult at times.
The author uses disparaging terms to refer to those of Hispanic and Afro-American hertitage and seeing those terms in print these days can be unsettling.
In other Grey books I have have read, the author also takes a rather dim view of Mormons, although in this book they are the "good guys." All in all a fun read.
My dad had a collection of nearly every single Zane Grey book ever written when I was a child.
I was probably 10 or 11, and it was hard reading for that age.
This book was the gateway to the rest of the Zane Grey's in my dad's collection.
That was a good thing.I probably can't give a completely unbiased review of this book.
Anything I read and loved as a child I have a hard time actually critiquing.
Anyway, I think it's difficult to go wrong with Zane Grey.
I'm a hopeless romantic, and lucky for me, so was Zane Grey.
The Man of the Forest by Zane Grey is another great novel.
Why fix what ain't broken and Zane Grey writes great western romance, without it being too romancey.Hie descriptions of the natural beauty in the forest and desert and on the senecas is amazing.
There is the typical girl who gets overwhelmed by things, and the girl who is a spitfire and runs pell-mell into things that she usually but not always gets out of, a straight outlaw, a wicked outlaw whose gang eventually turns on him and the bad guy always gets his due.
This is a testament to the idea that a predictable story can be a compelling story.
It's an old fashioned Western with captivating descriptions and explanations of the power of the wilderness on the human psyche.
Zane Grey is philosophical about the parallels between the cruelty of nature and the cruelty of men, and between being alone and loneliness.
It's an action story but with insights on nature and humans in nature, and how women affected the evolving norms of the West.
Oh to have the spirit and resilience of those early Westerners.
The beauty of the setting makes me ache to find such a place.
I found this to be the most disappointing novel of Zane Grey's, I have ever read.
I found the plot predictable and monotonous, and I felt the ending chapter boring and overly long.
Overall it is classic Zane Grey, fervent romanticism, poetic prose, but the plot and the characters could not be salvaged by the talent of the author.
I found it--insincere, and condescendingly gratuitous to the intended readers of the day in which it was written.
However, I would still recommend Zane Grey to anyone, but not this particular novel.
It is like Garth Brook's Chris Gaines album--it's best forgotten.
This story revolves around four protagonist: Milt Dale, the man of the forest, Helen Rayner, an Eastern girl moving west to claim a ranch left to her by an uncle, Bo Rayner, her kid sister, and Tom Carmichael, the typical Texan cowboy.
This story includes an attempted kidnapping, a prolonged hide out in the mountains, bad hombres trying to steal the ranch away, and a classic gunslinger shoot out on the main street.
I suppose I'm drawn to the bigness of the "West" and its ideals of womanhood and manhood -- it's soothing for me to read when I get bogged down by too much contemporary literature.
Read one Zane Grey book and you have read them all.
I have read maybe 10 or so of his books.
The story line is always the same, just different settings and different names.
Always a lonely young man, typically a cowboy, a pretty young girl in desperate circumstances, a bad guy always trying to get the girl and the cowboy saving her.
The formula always has the cowboy win the fight and saving the girl.
(There is only one of Grey's stories where the good guy looses.) Grey's books are typically easy reads and fun.
However, they are very predictable.
I am willing to let some racial and sexist references slide by, realizing the time and point of view of the story.
There is more awareness of the basic rights of all life in this book than much of modern literature.One of the great things Grey has done is paint a picture of the wild and scenic, and involve it in the story as an integral part of the lives of the people who live in it.
Worth reading not only for the excellent action adventure, but also the love stories: man and woman, man and nature.
I read this book for the first time when i was ten years old, and I love it more every time I read it. A wonderful romance about two sisters that come out West to live with their uncle. Accidentally hearing about a plot to kidnap the girls, Milt Dale - the "man of the forest" - steps in to rescue them. This is how the book begins and it keeps getting better. I love the characters and the descirptions, but especially the deliniation between good and evil. A beautiful and sweet romance.
I never realized how much romance was in these things. Endless self examination and fluttering hearts. They must be read with a consciousness of the time and place from whence they came, the racism is still disturbing. However as a template for the myth of the American male they are a hoot. Everyone should read at least one.
