https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23677341-we-are-the-ants
Your entire sense of self-worth is predicated upon your belief that you matter, that you matter to the universe.But you don't.Because we are the ants. My first 5 stars of 2016!This book. Seriously. I hadn't read any of the author's other work. I wasn't even sure that the premise promised a book I would like. My curiosity was piqued when I saw the good critical reviews it was getting, but that has meant little in the past so I wasn't completely convinced...But it was so damn good. The truth is,
The truth is, while I always wait for the end before deciding on a book rating, most of the time there's a little part of me that just knows near the beginning when I've picked up a 5-star book.
It's a book that does something a bit different, and it has a pull you know will drag you through those pages.Henry Denton's narrative is so compelling, nihilistic and hilarious.
The way he portrays and explores the world around him is excellent, showing us intricate family bonds, friendships, love and all the wonder and horror of the world we live in.The book opens with Henry telling us about the aliens.
"I could paint you sometime.""I'm afraid to ask what you see when you look at me.""You wouldn't believe me."This was my second book by Shaun David Hutchinson and I loved it even more than The Five Stages of Andrew Brawley.
Other times I think gravity is love, which is why love's only demand is that we fall.”“You spend your life hoarding memories against the day you'll lack the energy to go out and make new ones, because that's the comfort of the old age.
It's happening so slowly, I can hardly tell what's missing.”Plot:I wasn't surprised to find this book to be even darker than The Five Stages of Andrew Brawley.
“We may not get to choose how we die, but we can choose how we live. The universe may forget us, but it doesn't matter. Because we are the ants, and we'll keep marching on.”  We Are the Ants is a really beautiful story about being a teenager, being gay, and not being accepted. This is a story about heartbreak, loss, grief, and trying to figure out who you are in the midst of it all. I’ll be honest, I didn’t love the start of this book, but I completely fell in love with the middle and end. And
I was honestly scared I was going to end up hating this book.
We get to witness some of Henry’s alien abductions, but on one particular visit, he is given a choice to save the world or to leave it for impending destruction.
I think he’s so immensely talented, and all the elements that are a part of his stories are honestly life changing and saving.
This story is truly holds such an important discussion about mental illness and how it is something that you have to always manage and keep up with, because it never goes away, no matter how many alien abductions happen.
The universe may forget us but it doesn't matter.
Because we are the ants, and we'll keep marching on  When people used to say to me  what do you want to be when you grow up?
I'd ALWAYS say astronaut.
In fact, I still want to be an astronaut ..
I just don't think I will be ( unfortunately it turns out getting to space involves a shit ton of MATH and I don't do math very well.) But the point stands I am absolutely a SLUT for space.
What can I say, stars are pretty, planets intrigue me and I wan
(YES PEOPLE, aliens are a thing in this book) and yet somehow the fact the aliens abduct him all the time (And at inconvenient times might I add) that isn't even his main problem Because not only do the aliens abduct him, they've also told him the world is ending in 144 days unless he stops it.
I liked the way this book offered a reflection on the things that worry us as people, and how it was ultimately hopeful despite all the despair and the heaviness of some of the themes.
I feel as if I should wait and write a better review because let's face it, my midnight thoughts hardly come close to what this book deserves but I can't.
Closing this novel, I feel like a walking-talking-contradiction : speechless, and yet so many words are fighting fiercely into my mind for the honor of - perhaps - convincing you to give it the chance I strongly think it deserves.
Their struggles, their reluctances, their mistakes - none of them can hide the profound love they feel for each others, even if they don't always know how to show that yes, they do care.
4.5 This book was sold to me as a "Teenage boy with a lot going on in his life is being abducted by aliens once in a while"While this is true I would consider this book a contemporary dealing with suicide, mental illness and a lot more. A very moving book! If you liked "Aristotle and Dante Discover the Secrets of the Universe", "Simon vs the Homo Sapiens Agenda" or "I'll Give You the Sun"... you need to pick this up!
the fact that i enjoyed a book about aliens makes me worried that i was abducted and brainwashed by aliens.
in many ways, this reminded me of hutchinsons other book, ‘at the edge of the universe.’ they were different where it mattered, but the structure and overall basis of the books were quite similar.
again, hutchinson shows that he has a talent for writing heart-wrenching, but hopeful, stories.
but where he gets me is his writing.
i especially love how he showed that science is present in every aspect of our lives, even explaining that its what makes life beautiful.
Our main character has been abducted by aliens.
He's been given 144 days to decide whether he wants to end to world or save it.
Safe to say this is an important book, because of the numerous themes it discusses, the pivotal point being about life itself and how insignificant our impact on the world really is, since, really, ‘we are the ants.’ I love how the author spoke about life through Henry's eyes and the casual alien abducting him.
As a reader, I felt his emotions, his despair, his constant questioning of his worth and identity and his battle with grief and depression.
It’s heavy, humorous, dark and slightly traumatic and puts forth the question: Is the world worth saving?
❝The universe may forget us, but it doesn't matter. Because we are the ants, and we'll keep marching on.❞  It's been a while since I gave a book 5 stars but not only that, it's been a while since I completely loved and adored it. We Are the Ants is, without a doubt and with no hesitation, one of the greatest, most heartwarming books I have ever read. It delivers a touching message but at the same time, it delivers humor around it. It has scenes where you just want to curl up and cry because of
What Henry does know is that his mother is trying to fix the family and having trouble with it; his grandmother is losing her memory because of Alzheimer; his brother dropped out of college and got his girlfriend pregnant only to get a job with her father; he knows he has a bully at school that secretly makes out with him but humiliates him in front of his friends; and he knows that his boyfriend killed himself last year.
I hated seeing Henry like this but I'm just glad Diego met him and became his real friend.
His book "We Are The Ants" is really great!!!So is this author!!!!"Popularity is teenage heroin.
However, no matter what more I say about this book...no matter how many reviews you read...
It's a book worth reading.
For me...this book is less about being gay -( but Henry is gay), or coming of age - ( but he is still very young), but more about how we deal with grief - at any age!
A book to love and adore!*I get to meet the author Shaun David Hutchinson this coming weekend.
If you want to write something in a different language you need to make sure that it's not complete bullshit lol - he literally translated "I miss you so much Dad" with "Ich hab dich so sehr, Papa verpasst" - sorry for the english speaking people but the germans will know why this is a blood bath) The dialogues felt real and it was easy to understand the emotions of the characters.
Like sleepwalking or something tbh because it was just too crazy in an otherwise normal contemporary book in my opinion.
This book deserved more than 5 stars.I stayed up until nearly 2:00 a.m. to finish this book and I cannot stop thinking about it. Honestly, I read a good amount of YA fiction, and a lot of it is tremendously well-written and emotionally evocative, but I've not been this blown away by a book since I read Jandy Nelson's  I'll Give You the Sun , which made my list of the best books I read in 2014. Seriously. This one was brutal and absolutely beautiful."Sometimes I think gravity may be death in disg
And his home life isn't much better—his mother works more and more shifts as a waitress while her real dream is to be a chef; his older brother abuses him physically and psychologically nearly every day; and his grandmother, suffering from Alzheimer's, seems to have fewer and fewer lucid moments.The aliens have given Henry an ultimatum: Earth will be destroyed in 144 days, unless Henry makes the decision to save the world.
is a difficult book to read at times, emotionally.
4 Stars “We're not words, Henry, we're people. Words are how others define us, but we can define ourselves any way we choose.”  Dude, that ending messed me up.Our story revolves around Henry, a teenager with what can only be described as a shitty home life.So when Henry is given the option of letting the world end, or saving it at the press of a button-- he hesitates. And the rest of what follows was a glorious expedition of character development, philosophy and profoundly unsettling questions.
And the rest of what follows was a glorious expedition of character development, philosophy and profoundly unsettling questions.
All this weight had the potential to sink the story, but it’s handled in nuanced ways framed by the complicated characters.
Instead, the plot goes along with Henry’s nihilistic and confused outlook, further complicating the moral dilemma.
Diego is an important part of the plot, and a developed character, but meeting him isn’t necessarily what fundamentally changes Henry’s world, like the blurb suggests.
Just incredible
It tried to address so many sensitive subjects—bullying, suicide, depression, abuse, addiction, struggling to come to terms with your sexuality, and the meaning of life—that every single subject it addressed ended up feeling half-heartedly touched upon.I can kind of see why so many people love this book if I squint really hard, because it has a few quite touching scenes that were filled with relatively meaningful revelations—but all in all, the negatives more than outweighed the positives.What I Disliked: (This is the part in which I rant, read at your own risk.)- The writing is incredibly dry and doesn’t help much in drawing you into the story—rather the opposite.
However, I think it does end up lending well to the development of the characters and the story (if it doesn't bother you too much on the way).- Very gritty and real.
Sometimes books get right to the edge of taking a chance, but don't cross that line, but this book jumps feet first into topics like sexuality, depression, suicide, rape, and others that might be too spoiler-ish to mention.It was quite a ride and definitely worth reading.
But, if you can and do read it, I think you will find it to be a satisfying and moving experience.
What I loved the most about this book, is that it leaves you thinking and questioning your life.
He is losing his grandmother to Alheizmer's.Henry needs to act like he's okay, but he's not.Aliens have abducted Henry and given him the choice to press a button in order to save the world.
(hide spoiler)]If I were Henry, experiencing what he is going through, I sure as fuck, wouldn't believe the world is worth saving.
That's one of the things I loved most about this book, being able to relate to Henry so much.
I loved reading this book, however, about 40% of this bored me to death and just seemed like every other contemporary.
another perfect LGBT book
5/5 stars ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐Favorite Quotes:"As human beings, we’re born believing that we are the apex of creation, that we are invincible, that no problem exists that we cannot solve.
Unlike memories, which are fossils, long dead and buried deep.""I hated movies and books where people ignored bullets whizzing by their heads and zombies chasing after them so that they could make out, but I finally understood."Pros:-I related to this a fair bit more than I was expecting to.
I think being able to relate to Henry made me appreciate this novel, and give it the 5 star rating that I did!
Final Thoughts:Could not recommend this book enough!
I finally started to write my review, and Goodreads deleted everything I wrote...*sighs*Review to come. Again.
Actual Rating: 3.5 StarsBuddy read with Katherine!!
Maybe 4.5 stars  “We may not get to choose how we die, but we can choose how we live.” Well that was certainly a different kind of read. It’s familiar and new at the same time. Even though the themes are very common- bullying, mental illness, depression, broken family, search for identity and life’s meaning, all these things were manipulated and twisted into something new when the author brilliantly thought of throwing in the element of science in the story. The premise is actually pretty hilari
Anyone who reads this will tear through the pages if only to find out what Henry chooses in the end and regardless of whether the red button is metaphorical or literal, any reader will just have to know.
(lol!)I particularly enjoyed the chapters where Henry visualizes hundreds of different ways the world could possibly end.
It was really impressive how the author managed to come up with a good YA contemporary story diversified by science and very well-developed characters that I often try to put myself in their shoes because they’re that relatable.
and on the ending of the story (because somehow, I still want more) but I think it’s still as good as it could get.
4.25⭐And the biggest (and most pleasant) surprise read of 2018 goes to.... *drum rolls* - WE ARE THE ANTS!What a read. What a surprise!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Told myself I wasn’t going to fall for hyped up books anymore (always a lie but... y’know). Then I read the first chapter. I fell. I fell hard.
4.25⭐️And the biggest (and most pleasant) surprise read of 2018 goes to.... *drum rolls* - WE ARE THE ANTS!What a read. What a surprise!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Told myself I wasn’t going to fall for hyped up books anymore (always a lie but... y’know). Then I read the first chapter. I fell. I fell hard.
This was heavy.
you know how in "once more, with feeling" buffy dances her final number, until spike catches her & sings that life is just living?? this feels a lot like that, only it's gay & there's science™(tw depression, suicide, bullying, attempted sexual assault)
“We may not get to choose how we die, but we can chose how we live.
I felt every emotion on the planet while reading it.
Meet Henry Denton, a teenage boy who is regularly abducted by aliens, he also has to make a choice.
The world will end in 144 days, and all he has to do to stop it is push a big red button, but Henry isn't your typical protagonist, he hates his life, and has been dealing with depression, bullying, abuse and grieve for years, so why would he want to save anything about a planet where people can be so evil.
Regardless, Henry's inner turmoil often brought tears to my eyes.Usually when there’s severe bullying in a YA book I find it just a bit exaggerated because it’s outside my experience, but this hit me so hard.
(basically, Henry gets beat up a TON in this book)It's an emotional and impactful read, and yet there were times that I was ready for it to be done.
I have a ~thing~ about YA contemporary books that are over 400 pages, because I just hit a wall and start skim reading parts I don't care about.
I guess I'll see how the novel sediments in my mind in the next days.)*Some ten days later, the stars did become three 3.5“We're not words, Henry, we're people.”•In my humble opinion, We Are the Ants won over so many hearts thank to the concept: if an apparently omnipotent alien race told you you could save the planet from complete destruction (which will occur in about five months) simply by pushing a button and with no consequences for your person, would you push the button?
It's one bloody fray after another.4.5/5 🌟!When I tell you I read We Are the Ants at the perfect time in my life, I'm not being hyperbolic.
I truly read this at a tremulous and shaky moment, where I understood the heavy emotions radiating from this book and from every word written.
It probably wasn't the wisest choice to read such a book while I was sensitive to the topic but it really helped me feel like I was seen and understood.
But I could not immerse myself in this book because I felt Shaun David Hutchinson's presence within its pages.Before I elaborate on that, I want to praise certain characteristics of We Are the Ants.
I appreciated Henry's nontraditional family, his healthy friendship with Audrey (who I liked more than him and exhibited way more agency than he ever did), and Hutchinson's honest emphasis on mental well-being.
The entire space and world catastrophe theme, while different, felt so inauthentic to me; I could see Hutchinson attempting to create this super meaningful yet cool analogy about the world ending and mental health, which took away from the realness of the story.
