https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129650.Mastering_the_Art_of_French_Cooking
Since I didn't have a good answer for him I went out and bought them, the boxed set of both Volume 1 and Volume 2.My first recipe cooked was Soupe a L'oignon (onion soup), because, well, I love French Onion Soup so this seemed like a good place to start.
I stepped outside towards the end of the simmer and a contractor on the roof yells down "What on earth are you cooking in there?
He said it was the best French Onion Soup he had ever had, and not just everyone's favorite bread and cheese topping part.
The only comparable book is "Good Housekeeping's Illustrated Cookbook," which I also own and use regularly.
Although this book is focused on French cuisine, it also includes a timeless and useful walk-through of everything from how to hold a knife to how to poach an egg.
Ms. Child explains how everything works together and how recipes can be modified in a simple manner so that learning to cook is not simply a process of following directions, but rather a process of learning what ingredients work together and why.Really, this book is a must for anyone who enjoys cooking and wants to improve their knowledge, technique and repertoire in the kitchen.P.S.: The best advice of all: Spend the money on a good knife.
How can you judge a book like this one, one who is so critically acclaimed?!
I woke this morning with the idea, a soup recipe would take hours, because it's French and Julia Child's, but it didn't.
That is an early supper, but it was a good one.Honestly as I was making the soup, I actually wondered if I would like it when it finished.
I was instantly marved and had to eat!I am so glad I picked this soup as my first time with Julia...
her book anyways.
She's like a kitchen goddess to me.
This is how I learned to cook, by going through this masterpiece of a book page by page, hunting for the ingredients and making Julia's delicious recipes.
Her book was my foundation for the art of cooking and part of the inspiration when I wrote my own cookbooks.
I wonder if Julia, in heaven, can hear the echoes of the laughter at the millions of dinner parties she inspired.
If you ever need a short (not long enough), loving and charming look at her delicious life and how she came to write her first book, watch the movie JULIE AND JULIA.
A+ for this book (and the movie).
Most cookbooks put the ingredients list on top and the method (the steps) below.
Feels like I don't need to buy anymore french cookbooks.
Even how to spoon flour has its own illustration!• Most recipes are indeed DELICIOUS!
And never leaves out important tips.• She usually starts with the master recipe and follows with variations.Conclusion:• Definitely one of the best cookbooks to learn cooking.
And yes I encourage you to learn french cooking first.
Because french is the fundamental of western cooking!
And this book arranges so many dishes to basic categories, such as soup, sauces, eggs, fish, poultry, meat, vegetables, desserts and cakes, and so on.
If you have any interesting in cooking, MTAOFC is a must.
The beautiful thing about this cookbook (and it's recipes) is that, like good food, it does not appear in a vacuum- there is the lore of Julia, the lore of the recipes, Julia's colorful instructions, the common-sense solutions she offers (that, in the early 21st century, are in some cases woefully outdated and in others the perfect tip).
It is readily apparent that Julia believes cooking should be an experience to share, and I believe her cookbook is one that should be shared as well.
This classic cookbook has been a mainstay for my wife and I for over forty almost fifty years now.
This incredible stew has probably been eaten in our household at least once per annum since the first year we had the cookbook.It's true that the classic French cooking of the mid-twentieth century is somewhat dated nowadays, primarily because it is over-generous with the use of fats.
More emphasis on healthier diets relegates this sort of cuisine to special occasions for many folks, including us.
But for those special occasions, few cookbooks offer the variety of delights to be found in Julia's masterpiece.
I mentioned this off-hand to my boyfriend once when we were in Williams-Sonoma, and he surprised me with a copy of the 50th anniversary edition of Mastering the Art of French Cooking last night for my birthday.
Go me!)I was up way too late last night reading it, and while I've yet to cook from it, I can tell you that I already know following these recipes is going to be an Experience.
They're straightforward, detailed without being overwritten, and the friendly tone of the book made me feel like I was reading a recipe written just for me by an especially good friend.
It's a good book. I was so curious about French way of cooking because of how people rave about it and all that. Well, their cooking is not healthy at all as they use a lot of butter. It is just their own cooking, like any cooking, nothing special or I really need to know about. I intend to stick to my simple way of eating that tries to be as health conscious as possible. Hey, it's all food in the end!
The Good-Humored, Encouraging Teacher–Honestly, I don’t know how Julia does it.
In between the instructions, Julia’s authorial voice emerges in each of her recipes.
Julia ensures that if she can a pastry from scratch, certainly you, with the better kitchen appliances and ingredients can too.
- See more at: http://www.clearlydeliciousfoodblog.c...Extensive, Thorough Instructions and Illustrations–Let’s be honest, Julia really has taught me 90% of what I know about French cooking.
In each recipe, she supplies the most thorough of explanations on how to peel a tomato, make a pate stuffing for a duck, or make your own pastry.
- See more at: http://www.clearlydeliciousfoodblog.c...
I am nowhere near finished with this beauty but since it belongs to the library and not me, well i have to send it back :( This is a seriously amazing cookbook!
The house smelled amazing, everyone wanted seconds and i need to ask santa for this baby and its sequel as my Christmas present!Julia Child Ma´am...you the best!
I have had this cookbook on my to try list for some time, but always seemed a bit intimidated by it.
However, I read my Life in France by the author, and realized it was a how to book (though some recipes are more complicated than others).
Anyway, this book is a true classic, a first in its field.
The first recipe I tried was her roast chicken.
I've made many a roast chicken in my time, but this was delicious.
Next up is one of her soups (maybe the garlic one she mentioned in the book).
Checklist for Impressing New In-Laws:1.
Plenty of face smoothing make-up (that is, if they are the "look don't touch" types)2.
Wear your best (depending on if your father-in-law-to-be is a pervert or not, wear something slimming and fantastic)3.
NO: hemming, hawing, donkey calling.
Laugh cutesy.4.
Whatever you do, don't forget the garlic bread...AND..Mastering the Art of French Cooking by Julia Child.
There never was a better dead person to confer to about making your stiff-lipped, uptight in-laws happy.
Bottom Line?No one could write a more beautiful book about food and what the heck we wives should do with it than Child.
My first Julia Child cookbook - it has a "Bon Appetit!
Love Aunt Aldean 1973" inscription on the front page.
Lots of opportunities to reminisce and laugh with this cookbook.
I'm sure my husband wondered what he had gotten himself into with my (ad)ventures into the world of French cuisine, but he stuck by me anyway.
The cover is extremely tattered, the pages are falling out - a sure sign that it's a treasure.
Alright, I just finished flipping 50+ crepes for tomorrow's 7th and 8th grade French classes (we'll have cherry filling of course, President's Day you know)and it is past midnight so ...
no more reminiscing.
I had to put it away for a few months due to the weight gain from round one with Julia...butter anyone?
This book made me realize how much I love cooking.
She breaks the recipes down so anyone can understand.
I've made several dishes from the book now and the recipes are hard to truly screw up.
Julia Child makes it possible for anyone to feel like a culinary star.
Screw Rachael Ray!.
Julia will always be the queen.
She's like the Oprah of the culinary arts.
P.S. This books is not for vegetarians and if you're a vegan...put the book down and walk away.
I learned it is impossible to read a Julia Child book without hearing her voice in your head. Actually, I was thinking of cooking every recipe in this book over the course of a year and blog about it, then get a book deal. Then I could get Nora Ephron to write the screenplay for a movie about my book and get Amy Adams and Meryl Streep to star in it. Apparently that has been done. So I will cook every recipe in Nora Ephron's book "Heartburn" and blog about that instead. Take that!
What's not to love about the great Julia Child?! Mastering the Art of French Cooking is a must read! And it has a permanent place on my bookshelf at home, right along with so many other cookbooks that I own! I loved this one. It's a great reference.
I love to cook, but this book might be the death of me.
It's worth reading because Julia Child is a master of efficiency.
She's not a purist, and I love that.
There's a lot to learn from her.
For example, I've wondered why American croissants are nothing like French croissants.
No comparison.
Child explains that French butter is not a new, sweet cream, but a nutty, aged cream, and that French flour is not the same, either.
Because EVERYTHING (no exaggeration) in French cooking begins with butter, nothing here is going to taste authentically French.
But it's still BUTTER.
Not just the creme de la creme of cookbooks, but also a great resource...Julia takes you through the basics--how to stock your kitchen, how to chop a mushroom, how to make a quiche, how to roast a chicken, etc. The book is a staple for a dinner party...or to answer a random question that comes up about food. It's also well written and one of the few cookbooks that begs for you to sit down and read.
After watching the move Julie and Julia with my daughter, we decided to duplicate the premise of the movie, purchase the book, and cook through it. Well, I ordered the book online and read it over the weekend. I have tabs on all the recipes we are going to do over the next year. So far, we have finished soups and sauces. My husband, is very supportive! If we mess up, we just smile, and using our best Julia Child's voice say "Neeever apologize for trying!"
I did the whole cooking my way through this during a period of uncertainty around my employment, ten years before the blog came out, so I guess that's a thing. This is also an amazing manual for an amateur chef. It is not fancy - no glossy photos of food - but if you read it cover to cover, you'll be a much better cook. I didn't bother making the aspics, but the foundations for many of my staple recipes started here. Highly recommended.
I think this one is too much for me (and my skills). I probably should settle with mastering the art of avoiding death by inanition. I'd be the one tasting the dishes, so society is safe.
I enjoyed the hell out of this cookbook...to the tune of 20lbs. Reader beware.PS: I highly recommend the chicken with port and cream.
This book is a classic for a reason. It was inspiring and would be the perfect reference for specific techniques. I did only try two recipes, but intend to revisit the book at some point in the future... the recipes are designed to feed a large group of people.
I started on this cookbook craze to prepare myself for a future of financial responsibility, ethical purchasing of animal products (pretty sure most cheaper restaurants don't give a shit about where their meat and dairy and fat comes from), and actually developing the skills to make more than a handful of dishes.
The French just happen to do organs and meat a lot better than they do most vegetable dishes, which largely serve best as accompaniments in the traditional French culinary world.
I've found several recipes that I make over and over- like Mayonnaise. We ONLY eat my homemade mayo now-I experiment with different herbs and spices. I tried the hand whisk method a few times, delicious and fun for a lark, but the real workhorse recipe uses the food processor, and Julia's method is foolproof. I love the way she will introduce a basic technique, that, once mastered lends itself to many variations-like pastry, cooking stocks, or tortes.This book will always be on my shelf as a reference and a friend.
The actual execution of nearly ALL of my beloved Ms. Child's recipes require a professional kitchen, an arsenal of specific and expensive cooking tools and at least a week to pull it off--and of course nothing really came out as good as it was supposed to.
This is Mastering the Art of French Cooking, a lifetime of experience in the perfect cookbook, written in the voice of my hero, Julia Child.
This book was in most of the households I knew as a child: I remember seeing it in my grandmother's kitchen and at friends houses.
I then read My Life in France by Julia Child.
My husband has been asking for Potato Soup now for the past month.
Would you believe the very first recipe is Leek and Potato Soup?
This volume has the bread recipes, which she used about 285 pounds of flour and travelled back to France to watch and learn the science of making bread from a professional at one of the local bakeries.
I will rate volume 1 after trying 5 recipes.
Food I think about all the time and it was whilst reading a comment by Anthony Bourdain that when in doubt he turns to Mrs Child that I though for the first time, she sounds interesting.
One doesn't think of Julia Child and Anthony Bourdain together.
Then about 2 years ago now there was a discussion on a foodie site about making croissants and I became filled with the desire to climb that particular mountain.
In my mind there could be nothing as difficult as making any sort of puff pastry by hand and I needed deperately to take control of some part of my life.
Child and her cohorts present each recipes clearly, and the list of ingredients is presented in order of use without last-minute "sprinkle with chopped parsley" and the like appearing at the very end of the recipe with parsley's having been listed in the ingredients list.
This happens in a great many poorly written cookbooks.
A really brilliant book.This book would make a great gift for the new bride, or for anyone who enjoys cooking and would like to learn more about French home cooking.The book I own is the one-volume hardback published in 1966.
