https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42955.The_Drifters
The drifters are a new generation of young adults who are unhappy with their current lives and where they live- Joe, avoiding the draft for the vietnam war; Britta, wanting to escape the tunnel of darkness that stays for months in Norway; Monica, the child who grew up in Vwanda, fighting against the constraints of her English political upbringing and the culture that forced her dad out of the country; Cato, the black American, now a fugitive for having stood up to the inequalities of race in Pennsylvania.
As I was saying, I don't understand young people any more, as they would say, I just don't "get" them...- Have you read the new James Mitchener?
I tell you, I've been reading Mitchener since 1947 and he just gets better.
Shall I put it on?- Harold, was that the girl at the office party who-- Ah, yes, that was Karen.- I think I'd rather have some more Frank Sinatra.
- But-- Sinatra, Harold.- Sorry darling.
What do you think of Nixon's chances in '72?- My friends in DC tell me it's a sure thing.- Well thank God for that anyway.
Ông dõi theo họ, với đôi mắt của một người bạn vong niên tận tụy.Rồi, bằng giọng điềm đạm từng trải, ông kể lại cuộc hành trình, hay đúng hơn là những cuộc hành trình nhuốm màu khai sáng ấy..Tôi thực lòng nghĩ cuốn sách này là một trải nghiệm đặc biệt mà mỗi người, dù là đang tuổi thanh xuân hay đã không còn trẻ đều nên tìm đọc.
The Drifters is the life I wish I'd had before getting married, having children, experiencing divorce and now playing it safe with a job, grown children and a mortgage.
Joe, the main character from the US, is my hero.
He epitomizes basic qualities of character that as you travel with him, you realize this guy is no saint but he's got heart.
And he is loyal and kind, assertive and strong, and reasonable.
But you'll have to read the book to know why.James did a GREAT job with this novel and it is my all-time favorite.
Một trong những quyển sách xuất sắc, cực kỳ thích hợp với tuổi trẻ.
Xen lẫn với những cảnh tượng thơ mộng hấp dẫn của những vùng đất đầy màu sắc ở Tây Ban Nha, Bồ Đào Nha, Morocco,...
là những trăn trở mà thanh niên thường trải qua, giáo dục đại học, giá trị sống, tôn giáo, tình yêu và tình dục, xung đột sắc tộc,...
Sáu người thanh niên trong truyện là những đại diện tiêu biểu của một thế hệ, với những tính cách riêng biệt nhưng vẫn cùng chung mục đích: tìm kiếm bản thân, tìm kiếm hướng đi cho mình trên những hành trình rong ruổi ở những miền đất lạ.
I can say with ease that this is my favorite book of all time.
I read this book as a teenager and if it had done anything for me it instilled a vital desire to travel the world, especially Europe.
The story-line is placed in front of a backdrop of rich European sites and culture that makes the reader crave the warm air of the Mediterranean.
It follows six very different travelers from six very different back grounds and parts of the world.
The perfect read for anyone who holds the era of peace and love close to heart.
Rồi bạn sẽ tìm thấy mình trong sáu con người đó thôi.
I read this book for the first time in the late 70's as a teenager.
"Like wow!" It's hard to remember or to believe that people used to speak this way.
(Just wait until we look back on the late 80's and early 90's and the valley girls!)In my teens, I was absorbed by the freedom and lack of fear of these people.
It's also an interesting peak into the culture and beliefs of a different age.
In some ways, it makes me glad that I was too young to partake of this culture.
They are always very well researched, you get the feeling he is confident in all aspects of his story.six young people from different parts of the world Britta, from dark brooding Norway, Joe from America, Yigal from Isreal, Cato from America , Monica from Englad and Gretchen from America, all their own individual reasons for leaving their homes and travelling, all of them escaping though from things they cannot or have no wish to understand.
It is a young persons book, as this is what they will do for ever more, try and change things for the better and never really suceeding in understand what it is they want.
Michener paints many pictures of places I'd love to visit, but also does not leave out the grimy side of the 60s-70s.
He does a great job of portraying this generation from many viewpoints so that the reader can gain an understanding of the vibrancy and excitement of embarking on this new path of freedom, but also shows the clashing of beliefs, ideals, confusion, and loss of direction.
It also reafirmed my belief that you don't necessarily grow by traveling all over to new places, but more so by looking within yourself.
Hay quá !!! Quyển một khắc họa cuộc sống và hoàn cảnh khác nhau của 6 con người. Họ là 4 người Mỹ, một cô gái Na Uy và một cô gái Anh. Họ tìm đến cùng một địa điểm sống để trốn tránh thực tại, để tìm kiếm sự giải thoát cho chính bản thân mình. Có một điều mình rất thích nữa là quyển sách đề cập đến tình hình chiến tranh Việt Nam. Hóa ra không phải tất cả người Mỹ đều có máu chiến tranh.Bây giờ đọc tiếp quyển 2 thôi !!!
Có hai lý do để cuốn sách này phải được đọc khi bạn còn trẻ: thứ nhất, nó nói hộ cho bạn nhiều điều; thứ hai, nó quá dài để có thể đọc khi bạn lớn tuổi hơn.
It's a story deeply wrapped up in the issues of American culture at that time - the Vietnam War and the changing views on drugs and sex.
I've never read those and suspect that this book is a bit different in that it's really focused on a time and a culture, not a place.I can't find anything to substantiate it now, but when I read it back in the late 80s I had been given to believe that Michener supported the war in Vietnam.
Not all are American and little takes place in America, but the book does have a very American-culture focus.
maybe closer to a 4*, however certainly not my fav. James Michener book. My suggestion is you have a series of maps available to you as I was totally unfamiliar with most of the settings that the Drifters travelled to. Michener's writing makes these free-spirited characters come alive and if you were a teen trying to find your way in the 60's, this fiction story will appeal to you.
This book explores the culture, politics, views on the Vietnam Nam war, changes in music, sexual freedom, racism, and drugs in late 1960's and early 1970's.
The narrator is a 61 year old man, Fairbanks, who feels close to six young people who travel through Spain, Portugal, Morocco and Mozambique during the Vietnam Nam era.
The young black American expresses that change and power will only come for his people through their conversion to Islam and armed rebellion with the help of the Jews.
In the rest of the chapters, however, the characters become one-dimensional, and the reader is pulled along by the 60-something narrator and his opinions of young people and the lifestyle they're creating.
The ending felt rushed, too, as if Michener was trying to tie together too many threads left flapping in the wind.In other ways, this book is a window into a time of major cultural shift in the Western world, where the largely conservative status quo was being tested and challenged by youth.
One final criticism: the never ending and totally ignorant portrayal of Australia as a nation of cattle farmers.
Tôi hiểu hơn về 'insight' của những con người trong nạn phân biệt chủng tộc ở Mỹ, những người thanh niên bị buộc phải đi lính tham gia cuộc chiến Việt Nam, sự bất ổn của Isarel, hay sự tẻ nhạt, cam chịu hay thiếu kiên cường của 1 số người thế hệ trước....tất cả đã đẩy 6 người thanh niên ưu tú ấy, trong hoàn cảnh chính trị, gia đình đặc biệt của mình, đã xa xứ, và gặp nhau tại 1 thị trấn sôi động tây Ban Nha. Tôi bị ấn tượng mạnh mẽ bởi cái chết của cô gái da đen (bạn Cato) khi bị các cô gái da đen khác đâm ngay trên đường phố Mỹ; hay cô gái Gret bị các tay cảnh sát Mỹ hành hung 1 cách vô lý....
Tôi sẽ gọi nó là một "cuốn tiểu thuyết giang hồ thượng hạng, như một bách khoa thư chất chứa trong nó vô vàn kiến thức về chiến tranh, tôn giáo, phân biệt chủng tộc, tình dục và quan trọng hơn cả là cách nhìn cuộc sống của giới trẻ".
Điều duy nhất khiến tôi không cho cuốn sách này 5 sao có lẽ vì mình đọc nó hơi "muộn".
Hết tập 1, tôi thực sự băn khoăn không biết nếu khi mình "trẻ" hơn, tầm những năm đầu đại học, mà đọc cuốn sách này, thì cuộc đời mình liệu có rẽ sang một hướng khác?
This is a book about a group of young people who decide to exile themselves from their home countries and end up in Torremolinos, Spain.
They start a journey of self-discovery that takes them to Portugal, Pamplona, Mozambique and Morocco.
Their lives are observed by "Uncle" Gerorge, a businessman from Geneva, who ends up involved in each of their stories.
Being from a different generation, he tries to understand their casual attitudes towards life, music, and drugs.
A great read, but allow a lot of time to finish.
I'd recommend at least 3 weeks to a month to finish it, but I'd definitely recommend it.

This is still one of my favorite Michener books. I read this book for the first time in about 6th or 7th grade and it shaped the way I saw the world and looking back, I think this book is what started my desire to travel. And to read even better books. To be more open-minded. To love all music. It's a great read.
Very different than other Michener books. For those of us who grew up in the 60's and 70's, it's a must read!
Câu chuyện về 6 người trẻ cùng khao khát khám phá những miền đất mới và khám phá chính bản thân mình. Họ là những con người của tự do với khát khao chinh phục, họ mắc sai lầm, sai lầm nối tiếp sai lầm. Có những sai lầm có thể sửa chữa được, có những sai lầm phải trả giá bằng mạng sống.- Phương Thảo- https://gatbook.org/books/1923
l loved the book when i read it years ago. so many years ago. it spoke to my traveling spirit. i have been to all the places from tanjir to timboktu and the israeli young guy have the same name as i do - yigal.
I immediately decided that I would have an affair with him.'Hi. I'm Joe. Britta tells me you are looking for a job?''Yes. I am although I have no skills and no experience.''That doesn't matter since you are obviously the Most Beautiful Girl in the World.
I share a house with the Cato, the Most Interesting Man in the World, and Monica, the Most Beautiful Girl in the World.'The whole book is like this.
It could be easy to get hung up on Mr. Fairbanks' old-fashioned prejudices, but I think the juxtaposition between him and his band of adolescent vagabonds--and their unexpected rapport--are actually what make the book such a fascinating read.
As someone who has spent much of the years between 18 and 25 rambling around the world with not much more than pocket change to live on and has always prized art, music, and cultural experience above steady paychecks, I couldn't help loving a story like this.
Yes, I still have the book I started in 1973.
I'm in the age bracket of the subjects in this book and I was living in Europe, a semi-student and hard worker.
This book was written by an old man who wrote about young people like an old man.
Yes, there were drugs and sex and rock and roll but also hard work, shortages of food and whatnot.
Michener wrote some good books; this is not one of them.
If you're interested in writing, however, I think you should have a copy of this book as a reference guide for what not to do.
He even disparages the place I live, North Norway.There are other erudite reviews here that give the book a well-deserved analysis, better than I can be bothered to do typing with one finger on my phone so it remains to say only that the abundance of linen colored pages in my old hardback are going to come in handy for the art installation we are planning in the house: papering the banister with literature.
Although I have my doubts that it will in the final analysis be deemed literary enough for that end.
I had a lot of problems getting through this book.
I understand that it captured a group that existed at this time, the feeling and attitude...
But it was 40 years ago, and it was hard to experience the story without a sense of quaintness, as well as the events of the time in between colouring, it.
But it was incredibly written, explores lots of great, huge ideas: generation gaps, and how each generation faces the problems left by the last.
You name it, the 'kids' are fed up with it.It ends with the best line in the book though, a great summary: "I believe men ought to inspect their dreams.
I'm just getting into Michener. I understand that this book is different from his other novels. I found the characterizations most enjoyable and how he used them to place competing worldviews in discussion seemed realistic and unforced. It's a long book, but the way he used the first half to introduce the characters and then put them together int he second part allowed me to put it down and pick it up again according to my leisure. I felt that I really cared for these figures and they made me think of some people I have known.
