https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/220336.Marius
I know the play by heart at this point, but it never fails to transport me, make me laugh and cry – sometimes both at once!One characteristic of classics that I particularly love, is the ability to make the seemingly small lives of ordinary people feel epic in scope and timeless.
Our titular character is twenty-two, lives and works with his father César, owner of the Bar de la Marine, a café in the Old Port of Marseilles in the 1930's.
Slightly less good than "Fanny," slightly better than the song "Brandy," by Looking Glass (it was their *first* big hit).
In case you don't remember, that's the song with the chorus: "Brandy, you're a fine girl/ What a GOOD wife/ You would be/But my life, my love, and my lady/ Is the SEA." I remember hearing it a lot around 2000, and then a lot again around 2006.
Anyway, this is the first book of the Fanny trilogy, but I read it second.
As with "Fanny," the movie version of this is equally good.
Best accompanied with a glass of Pastis and bowl of bouillabaise.
Au contraire, les scènes s'enchaînent et le tout est très rythmé.
Cette lecture est tout à fait adaptée à cette période estivale.
Cependant, les expressions typiques m'ont un peu destabilisées car je n'y comprenais pas grand chose.
La relation entre Marius et Fanny est une très belle histoire.
Marius, très timide, mettra un certain temps à se déclarer à sa belle.
Fanny, malgré son jeune âge (18 ans), n'a pas froid aux yeux et pousse celui qu'elle aime dans ses retranchements.
Marius était trop préoccupé par ses envies et désirs de naviguer.
This beautiful little play effuses Marseille and French culture. Reading it, I feel that I am there - with the empowered matron, the ideal what it means to be in her 40’s as a French woman; César, the tender and sentimental father; Fanny, the glory of youth and beauty, lost on Marius, a typical young man. The bar, the port, the Sea, are all as present as the people, despite the lack of description. And we are there too, watching te ever-predictable but always addictive story of love fall apart, as we know it will. Just beautiful.
Not Pagnol’s best. Studying it in French literature class, where we have choose shorter works, and can’t really go for anything too demanding, for fear of losing those newer to reading books in French, because we need a certain number of students, or the class won’t run.It’s OK, gentle little story (play) about young love in Marseille in the pre-War II era, set amongst ordinary folk. There’s none of the cynicism of Balzac, Flaubert or Zola, nor of the amorality of Colette or Duras. Lightweight.
Des dialogues délicieux et des personnages forts! J'ai adoré ce premier volet, qui ce lit très facilement, de par le format théâtral et la rapidité des répliques. Très dépaysant. Par contre, la rapidité a pour mauvais côté de ne présenter que très succinctement la relation entre Marius et Fanny.
it's a classic from French literature and its hilarious. I appreciated the funny gentle plot. now I have to read the next two books of this trilogy
Du Marcel Pagnol, tout simplement... Du grand, du beau!
Un rayon de soleil cette histoire!
Les personnages sont tellement attachants, tellement vrais, les dialogues sont drôles ou sérieux quand il le faut, les expressions et le fait de lire avec un accent marseillais dans la tête donne tellement de relief et de personnalité au texte, c’est juste une vraie merveille.« PANISSE : Justement.
Ne connaissant que quelques répliques, je ne savais pas trop ce que j’allais trouver, si j’allais lire une sorte de farce, mais j’ai été ravie de découvrir qu’il y a une histoire profonde derrière le quotidien des personnages et j’ai adoré voir les sentiments qui se battent dans la tête de Marius.
I read this book for a French Theater class I took in college and of all the plays we read that semester, I enjoyed this one the most. I enjoyed the characters and the setting, makes me want to visit Marseilles! This is also part of a trilogy, this being the first book in the series.FYI, there are also several movie versions of this story, including one called "Fanny" that consolidates the trilogy into one movie.
Cette pièce de théâtre est tout simplement superbe à lire ! je m'y suis enfin plongée, à force de voir jouer les scènes de la partie de carte entre César, Panisse, Escartefigue et M.Brun ou encore la déclaration d'amour de Marius et Fanny. et je ne regrette pas du tout de me plonger dans cette magnifique trilogie marseillaise
A great play! I read it in french. All the characters are great and well written. I didn't like Fanny at first, but at the end I really liked her. You really feel like you are in a bar in the south of France; the dialect is right on. I can't wait to read "Fanny".
Marcel Pagnol quoi <3 Des répliques cultes " Tu me fends le coeur " ou encore " Quand on fera danser les couillons tu ne seras pas à l'orchestre " , l'accent marseillais, l'ambiance ... Rien à dire de plus ! Juste que je ne vais pas attendre longtemps avant de lire Fanny et César .
I think it was a good love story but not something special
I am a Pagnol fan at heart!
Finished reading for 2nd time 6/30/16
A poetic interpretation of a Marseille fishing village, where people's dreams and fears play out in a small community where everyone does know your name.
A must-read. Great writing!
