https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/170336.Fabulous_New_Orleans
Сказочная книга о сказочном городе — одном, как не устану повторять, из примерно пятерки любимых в мире. Написал ее новорлеанский Гиляровский — только Лайл Сэксон, пожалуй, поколоритнее Дяди Гиляя хоть и тоже городской персонаж, — а проиллюстрировал Эдвард Сайдэм. Читать такое — всегда как домой возвращаться, только душа болит очень, потому что не там.
I read this a couple years ago and, now that I'm visiting New Orleans, I'm reading it again.
Though it was published in 1923, this is a wonderful history of the city up to that time, and contains many anecdotes about what happened to individual people.
The author has a way of making history read almost like fiction.
The wonderful first chapter is the story of the author's introduction to the city as a small boy at the turn of the century.
Fabulous New Orleans is an elegy by a nonnative who made the city his own.
Best of the tales is his recounting of his first experience in the city during carnival when he was just a small boy visiting with his grandfather.
The writing is rich, the details precise, the little boy amazement palpable.
The rest of the book is a recounting of various tales and histories that seem to become less precise as pages turn as if he was running out of material.
In any event, it was a fine read, with the occasional cringeworthy casual racism one would expect from a book of the vintage.
This non-fiction narrative story book starts at the turn-of-last-century New Orleans. What a fun read! Anyone that loves the The Big Easy should read this book. I read this book years before Katrina and felt then that it captured the heart and soul of a New Orleans that was rapidly becoming lost because of property developers and corporate take-over. The picture presented here is surely all the more valuable these days.
Side note: my copy is the original 1928 edition. I bought it at an antique and used book store in the San Francisco Bay Area more than 20 years ago knowing someday I was going to visit. I hope more recent editions have the lovely illustrations by E. H. Suydam, because they really add to the charm of this quaint book--a love letter to New Orleans written by someone who first visited the city as a child for the 1903 Mardi Gras, and who eventually made it his home.
This book was beyond awesome! It was so exciting to read, and I couldn't put it down! I think I finished it in like, a day.
An old favorite. Put New Orleans on the map.
what a great book on th ehistory of NOLA
