https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85321.The_Tenth_Justice
DNF'ed at 29%At one point, Ben and Lisa's arguments went like this ..."...Second of all, even if I do go to a firm, I’ll be going for ten thousand dollars more than you will.”“You will not,” Lisa said.“I will too.”“Will not.”And I realized that I couldn't take it anymore.
The banters between Ben and his friends also felt childish -- I couldn't take them seriously at all.
My friend, Didi who recommended this to me said that someone would die in this book.
These people (including Ben) could die for their attitudes for all I care.
I had to keep reminding myself that this was an earlier book of Meltzer's because I could not think of a dumber main character.
Ben Addison, newly graduated from Yale Law School, is chosen to be a law clerk for the Supreme Court.
This person, who Ben never checked out, is the lead that will lead to someone making millions from knowing the decision.
The main character didn't seem to get any brighter as the book continued.
Makes one wonder how he made it through law school with high grades?
This book could have been so much more with a better ending. Such suspense through the entire story and then the ending was less than stellar. One thing that is very important for me is an author who knows how to close the story and this was just not there. 7 out of 10.

I'm not at all sure how I missed this when it first came out but what a treat to find it now.
This is a fabulous story.
Ben Addison and Lisa Nathan are two of the very few chosen to clerk for the Supreme Court.
They are the crème de la crème.
But, one small mistake takes them into a book full of trust and mistrust.
This story has characters who are so real, I swear I would recognize them on the street.
Meltzer's next book is already out and I may not be able to wait for the paperback.
I enjoyed the plot of this book because I worked as a law clerk after finishing law school. The themes hit close to home. It was a good, fast read, though somewhat predictable. My main complaint is that the style is just super cheesy---very Hardy Boys/Nancy Drew---simple language; lame dialogue. I've started The Millionaires and it seems even worse haha.
Hmmm. Okay, so I bought this book at the airport. Maybe it's better if you read it during vacation rather than starting it on your way home. The characters seemed really undeveloped. So much effort went into making the characters seem clever and funny that they really just seemed to be snarky little brats. As for the plot, I found it to be very predictable. I give Meltzer credit. I certainly couldn't have written a book while attending law school. Maybe that was his problem--he was surrounded by a bunch of soulless people, so that's how his characters are portrayed.
By a large margin, the ending is the best part of this story. 4 of 10 stars
THE TENTH JUSTICE - DNFMeltzer, Brad - 1st bookA Washington-based thriller about four ambitious twenty-something housemates, fresh out of college and eager to make their mark in their careers. When one of them, Ben Addison, is tricked into leaking a Supreme Court decision on a corporate merger in advance, he lands them all in big trouble.I found the protagonist just TSTL (too stupid to live) and could not even finish the book.
The books begins with an inviting premise, an innocent, if particularly stupid mistake. Then it unravels into shallow characters, obnoxious eye rolling dialogue and took me to a point where I didn't care about the outcome.
After one of the parties makes millions by "guessing" the outcome of the case Ben discussed with Rick, Ben discovers that Rick has disappeared.This is the point at which Meltzer asks the reader to take a giant leap into unreality.
Rather than going to the Justice and confessing what happened, Ben--a supposedly super-smart guy, decides he would be better off trying to find Rick and somehow entrap him.
BUT...Meltzer decides he needs to add one more plot twist.
It felt like some editor told Meltzer he needed a longer book, so he added a so-so short story onto the end of a great thriller.In the end, it is still a great book.
This book was so bad that I doubt very much I will ever get the motivation to read one written later in his career. Why did I feel the need to finish it?
Inelegant writing, unrealistic dialog, and shallow and unlikeable characters. I gave up about a third of the way in.
I can’t believe I devoted so much time to a stinker of a story. Where to start...the writing is immature, he dialogue is exhausting, and the book is suffering from a lack of editing, but besides that...I had often wondered about the clerks and people who are the puppet masters for Supreme Court Justices. This story gets off the rails quickly when a clerk can’t keep his mouth shut, and divulges important information. The rest of the story just goes around and around...
Meltzer must have an uncle in the publishing business.
To me, it was an episode of "Friends" being blackmailed. Serious but with a comedic touch.
This book, at least, doesn't go as far as another I won't name where the main narrating character - endlessly described as being possessed of profound (if twisted) brilliance - says no less than twelve times something like "My normally brilliant, highly functional brain just wasn't giving me the answers today." as an excuse for the bone-headed moves the author felt were needed to move the story forward.In the Tenth Justice, a recent top-of-the-food-chain law school graduate brilliant enough to be chosen as a Supreme Court Clerk makes one bone-headed mistake.
The violation results in his providing someone who used to clerk (or did he) with valuable information about a Supreme Court decision that would be announced in a few days; the manipulator makes money off of this knowledge and now has the clerk in his net.
Someone is feeding the manipulator detailed information about this clerk's life and the manipulator uses that information to torment the clerk, his family, and his friends in an effort to intimidate him into revealing more decisions before they are made public.
Suddenly, his closest friends come under suspicion as the one leaking details about his life to the manipulator.
I will read others to see how the writing has changed.
I actually read some of the Graphic Novels that Mr Meltzer before reading this book.
It is because of his reading his comic books that I wanted to read his novels.
I can see how he easily makes the transition to graphic novels.
It snakes up on you and the various acts in the book (it most clearly is divided into a three part novel) are terrific.So, why only three stars?
I know that this is just a decision that the author made and I know that it fits into the plot — but I didn't like it.
Legal thriller - Ben Addison, a Yale Law School grad, is working as a clerk for a highly respected Supreme Court justice and being aggressively courted by a prestigious law firm.
Terrified of ruining his career, Addison refuses to go to the authorities and admit his mistake.
Instead, he enlists the aid of his co-clerk, Lisa, and of his conveniently well-placed D.C. housemates-Nathan, who works for the State Department; Eric, a reporter for the Washington Herald; and Ober, who clings to a menial job in a senator's office.
Brad Melzter has a unique way of staying simple in his plot, but keeping the reader interested in all that the story has to offer.
Crazy twists and turns do not have to be extravagant, as Meltzer so wittingly shows us in his first novel.
There is no doubt that Meltzer did his research on every aspect of this story as the details about the characters lives drip with reality that, in my mind, remain unquestioned.
For a political thriller, it delivers in a quick read that makes the reader *want* to continue reading to figure out just what is *really* going on.

This was really one of the best lawyer thrillers I've read (or actually in this case listened to). It concerns Ben, a Supreme Court clerk who reveals a decision to a man (Rick) who claims to be his justice's former clerk, but wasn't. Ben's revelation is used for insider trading and he will lose his job if he is found out. Ben and his three roommates are long-time friends and they all become involved and endangered. I would have given the book five stars, but there is talk of losing virginity and loose sexuality.
Fresh out of Yale Law, Ben Addison is a new clerk for one of the Supreme Court's most respected justices. He's as bright and conscientious as they come -- and just as green. When Ben inadvertently reveals the confidential outcome of an upcoming Court decision, one of the parties in the case makes millions. Needless to say, Ben starts to sweat.This was Meltzer's first novel. I like this one so well I have read many others.
I never thought this book would end. I kept hoping it would turn around. It didn't. I should have put it down at 100 pages. The dialogue was terrible and repetitive. The premise was interesting but there was never any build in the plot. Knowing that it was a first novel I'm hoping his later works get better. I'm not sure I'll risk an attempt to find out. It could have been a decent (if not simply far shorter) book with a skilled editor. I blame him/her as much as, if not more than, the author.
I thought I was in the mood for a thriller, but this one didn't pull me in. The premise sounded interesting enough, and I liked what I learned about the inner workings of the Supreme Court in the bit that I read. However, I couldn't get past the supposedly witty, often sexual, banter of the characters. When I found myself rolling my eyes on every page I decided to just put the book down!
This was a tough read for me. I knew that there would be twists. In a well developed novel, I believe the story where it is and then get to the twist. Here, I felt I needed to suspend all belief in what I was reading and wait to see what was really happening. Additionally, I never really felt like I got to know the characters well enough, adding to the suspension of belief.
This is the first book written by Brad. I have to say I loved it. The plot was original and it kept me turning pages at a rapid pace. The concept that the clerks have a fair amount of power at the Supreme Court is an interesting thought. Hence the tenth Justice name. You will not be disappointed with this book
This was my first read of a Brad Meltzer novel. I'm not sure how I've missed his books as I enjoy "legal thrillers". This definitely captured my interest and now I'll look for a few other titles by this author.
If you enjoy legal thrillers, you won't be able to put this book down. The character and plot development are fused into the very first pages, and you never get to relax until you reach the last page.
