https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/472224.The_Shattered_Chain
In The Shattered Chain Rohana, a Comyn woman, recruits some Renunciates to help rescue her sister, who was kidnapped many years earlier by the even-more-sexist-and-abusive vaguely Middle Eastern-ish desert society that rarely has any role in this series where she was added to some lord's harem and never saw the light of day again.
Rohana, who has never really done anything on her own before, defies her family and travels across the desert with a small band of tough women.I liked that all the Renunciates had their own personalities.
En esta entrega se adentra al lector en el mundo de las Amazonas Libres de Darkover, que se había adelantado brevemente en El Sol Sangriento. Definitivamente, el tema del feminismo es el que Bradley maneja a la perfección, incluso en un mundo ficticio como Darkover en que crea toda una cultura antitecnológica en una sociedad eminentemente machista. Muy bueno.Respecto de otras "experiencias lectoras" que he tenido últimamente, puedo decir que esta saga ha envejecido muy bien.
Melora and Rohana were brought up together in a Tower, a place on Darkover where those with psychic powers were trained, and were once close, and Melora has made a telepathic appeal to Rohana for help because her daughter Jaelle is old enough to be chained, and she herself is pregnant again by her abductor, probably with his son.Women on Darkover are indoctrinated to accept men as protectors and masters, though not usually as brutally as in the Dry Towns, so Rohana has to defy her husband to hire the Amazons, women who have renounced men's protection, taken a long oath (which is printed at the front of the book), and who are organised into a system of Guild Houses.
wow I loved this story! I remembered very well from the first time I read it and I'm very glad I had the chance to read it again. Rohana is one of the most wonderful heroine in all the history of Darkover. I loved her so much. And Magda is another great woman. They are setting the lines for the future relationship between Darkovans and TerransA great book!
Yet even more on my Bradley kick; I had a heck of a last week and, to escape and cope, buried myself in the 'Renunciate Trilogy.' The Shattered Chain is the first; I understand that many Bradley fans consider it her best.I think it's excellent; I would have to say that, so far, the second in the Trilogy, Thendara House, is the best, but Shattered Chain is superior, and, as an aside, I have to say it's amazing to me how much better a book this is than Two to Conquer (which I liked, but I mention because it was penned after 'Chain.' SORRY--THIS WAS SAVED BEFORE I WAS DONEAs with most Darkover novels, you have intertwined narratives of a Terran and a Darkoveran.
This redeems MZB for me a bit, after that hideous "Forbidden Tower" crap.Good thoughts about gendered behaviour and politics, and a fair amount of action.
Still too much anguished navel-gazing for me to ever want to read it again, but seriously - vast improvement over the last one of hers I read.
But at the same time, none of the characters were particularly compelling, and the setting really doesn't do it for me.
I've no interest in reading further.But like I said, leaps and bounds better than the book that I ended up writing scathing paragraphs about.
The novel, divided into three parts, focuses largely on on the relationships of women - Rohana Ardais, Magda Lorne, and Jaelle n'ha Melora - with each other and with the men in their lives, but also provides glimpses into the lives and relationships of other women.The Shattered Chain opens with a daring rescue of a Comyn woman, Melora, and her daughter, Jaelle.
In many of the Darkover novels, MZB sets up contrasts between the status of women in different cultures and situations - Terran and Comyn, Comyn and Tower, Comyn and Renunciate, Tower worker and Keeper.
One of the better entries in Bradley's sprawling DARKOVER series: Jaelle, a Renunciate (Free Amazon), becomes entangled with the Terran Intelligence agent and linguist Magda Lorne when the latter unsuccessfully disguises herself as a Renunciate on a mission to ransom her ex-husband; Lorne, as consequence, is forced to take the Oath of the Renunciates.
Complicating matters are the fact that Lorne, for all her Terran loyalties, was born and raised on Darkover, and is more torn between the cultures than even she realizes at first.
The book is weak when it deals with the ex-husband, who isn't given enough space to have much personality, but as an exploration of colliding cultures it is compelling reading.
La historia nos sumerge en los dilemas a los que se enfrentan tanto darkovianas como terranas, y que al final no deja de ser el mismo: cómo luchar por una libertad que por tradición ha sido negada.La novela de Marion Zimmer Bradley rebosa un feminismo que todavía hoy en día es vigente y muy necesario; las Amazonas representarían todo aquello que se busca hoy en día con el movimiento feminista, aunque tal vez algo extremado y no exento de ciertas contradicciones.Es sin duda un libro muy interesante de leer y que dota de un prisma especial a toda la saga de Darkover.
Note that Melora's son, Valentine Aillard (children take the rank of the higher-status parent in the Domains) was named after Rohana's brother, Melora's foster-brother, who was tortured to death in an earlier unsuccessful rescue attempt.Rereading the series after it's effectively completed leaves me dissatisfied with the inadequate stories of people whose lives never are fully followed up.
It's also things like the fact that Melora is Cleindori's grandmother--yet though Cleindori was well-fostered, there's no evidence that she was ever told of her maternal history--something you'd expect an Aillard to learn.
Ah, comfort reads. I had not read this in decades. I was afraid the suck fairy would have gotten to it, but it was fine. But then, I'm not the most discerning of readers.
Me sorprendió la historia, es muy interesante y está bien narrada. Es el primer libro de la saga que leo y sin dudas no será el último. Lo recomiendo ampliamente.
Bruh the romance subplot ruined the book
Research read, and a fascinating one, especially in this era of Trump.
There's a similar thread after the timeskip, with Magdalene having to decide between loyalty to the Empire and the oath she swears to the Renunciates, whether oaths made under duress are valid (the Terran view) or whether your word is your bond (the Darkovan one), whether her love for Peter is mostly because he is the only man she spent any time around who understood what being raised on Darkover was like, and so on.
Not bad, but still kind of a basic level of discourse.What pulled this up to four stars for me was the conversation at the end between Rohana and Jaelle, where Jaelle is agonizing over her love for Peter but her inability to marry him due to her Renunciate oaths.
Some speed reading in the unpleasant escape journey or introspective parts.
Rohain hired amazons to rescue Melora (10 years captive) (both ex-leronis) and Jaelle from Jalak.
Terrans moved from Aldaran to Thendara - spaceport being built.
https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...========================================Part 2, Grade B.
Peter was taken by Rumal de Scarp and was hostage in the Hellers.---- charactersMagda Lorm (20-22) (Margali)Peter (Piedro) HaldaneRuss Monterar - (40s) Terran CoordinatorJaelle (23)Rumal de ScarpThe next book would be Shattered Chain part 3.
A little speed reading in longer introspective parts, but not much.Notes on part 3.
Jaelle and Magda at Rohanna Ardis.
Jaelle, Magda to Guild.
Terrans now on Darkover 50 years, in Thendara 12-14 years.
I suppose you could just read 'book 1', set this book aside, and read the two that fall in the gap.
And new ones continue to be forged.This is one of the few books in which Kindra n'ha Mhari appears as a living character.
This has personal resonance with me, because my maternal grandfather died before I was born, and my own life has been strongly influenced by a character I've never met.
This increases the ambivalence of the character of Rohana, who too often comes accross as a scolding schoolteacher, trying to herd her charges into a life of self-sacrifice.
This is the first Darkover novel to deal seriously with women and women's issues; prior to this, although women had been represented as having an important place in Darkovan culture, Bradley's protagonists had mainly been males.
Although the conclusions reached on these matters in this novel are somewhat unsatisfying, on reflection I found them to actually be complex and mainly realistic in representing how women struggle against sexism when they have to interact with privileged men (who are portrayed throughout as unaware of their privilege--certainly a realistic portrayal) in their professional and personal lives--bound by ties of loyalty and love.
He recommended I start with this Darkover novel, despite that it's not the first chronologically for a couple of reasons.
First, MZB always wrote the Darkover novels as standalones.
They all have the same backdrop, on the planet of Darkover, but although some novels are more closely connected, you can start anywhere.
This is still a good entry into Darkover which was written from 1958 to 1989.
(There were some collaborations afterwards, but I don't think they're her best.) Moreover, in her early written Darkover novels she was still learning her craft, and I think it shows.
Upping the stars on this, as I really enjoyed my reread of this.
Part II is definitely the strongest, and I found myself empathising with poor Magda as her disguise as a Renunciate was discovered in the travel shelter and she was forced to take the oath of the comhii letzi.
The oathtaking resonated with me so much as she repeated the words to her Oath Mother Jaelle, and how her feelings and thoughts were running through her head.Part III set in Ardais was also fascinating, and showed how much Rohana had made her choices and made the best of them.
Nella sua introduzione al romanzo Marion Zimmer Bradley ricorda “moltissime donne mi hanno scritto per ringraziarmi di aver composto un libro dove le vite delle donne fossero prese sul serio, e non considerate semplicemente nell’ambito domestico e nei loro rapporti con gli uomini.
It made me think about when I first read The Feminine Mystique (if I'm remembering the title correctly) in the 70's and how eye-opening that was for me at the time.
This story, set on another world, brings us on a journey with Magda which is literal, academic, and self-examining in nature.
The story starts out describing a culture in the Dry Towns where women are literally restricted by chains to seeing the greater world of Darkover and the women restricted by the invisible chains of society's mores, roles, class distinction etc.
Am eager to read a continuation of hers and others story in Thendara House.
The first in the 'Renunciates' mini-series within the Darkover universe, Shattered Chain is linked, roughly, with the Forbidden Tower series.
Often read as an exploration of issues close to MZB's own life and relationships, Shattered Chain was important in the Darkover series for addressing gender and the lives of women who choose to renounce the traditional life of a Darkovan woman.
The Renunciates were, of course, one of the most popular elements of the Darkover world with fans.Again, this is a shorter book, and while it spends a lot of time exploring the characters insides, it's also a good adventure read.
The first section of this book is the story of how Lady Rohana hires a group of Free Amazons to free her sister and niece from the misogynist Dry Towns where women are literally chained.The second and third sections take place twelve years later.
The niece, Jaelle, is now in her twenties and has taken the oath of the Free Amazons herself.
Women don't generally travel by themselves on Darkover, so Lady Rohana suggests that Magda could disguise herself as a Free Amazon.
It works well until she actually meets a group of real Amazons, led by Jaelle.
This was a really good story.
Magda finds herself in an impossible situation.
She is a Terra agent on Darkover to learn and study.
Her ex is held for ransom, and is forced to rescue him herself by imposing as an Amazon.
Naturally, she comes face to face with the true Amazons.
She must take the Amazon oath in order to save her ex, without betraying her Terra roots and responsibilities.
Later, she comes to find that her latent laran abilities are awakened.
Bradley really examines what it means to be a woman on Darkover from so many points of view.
Okay, first off, this was my first Darkover novel.
And instead of starting at the beginning of the series, like a reasonable person might, I decided to just hurl myself at the world and hope I figured out wtf was happening.
Which didn't turn out too badly.This book has a lot of interesting stuff going on with gender roles/politics and feminism.
Especially in the third section where basically all of the main female characters either find their place or define it in some way.
But. My main problem with this book was that every single man came off as a huge asshole.
Single.
Having a blast re-reading all of MZB. The first time I read this book I remember being severely disappointed in the ending. Now, from the vantage point of having lived a bit, I can accept it philosophically. Wonderful world building and character development, of course. And everybody learns and grows. The cover of mine is remarkably sexual in a creepy way. I see the Goodreads cover is much nicer.Mine has a (forgive me but it's truly the correct description) a bloody penis headed monster attacking women. yick.
This was more like the Marion Zimmer Bradley books I remember. It was a very eye opening look at the intersection between Darkover culture and Terran. And it was the beginning of the Terran incursion. Things will only get more interesting from here out. The best part was getting a good look at the free Amazons.
This book holds together as an adventure story while still making some rather cutting observations on how women are treated in patriarchal society. Well written characters and an internally consistent world.The feminist ideology is noticeably first-wave feminism, but Bradley makes an excellent point that the "look at those women over there who have it so terribly" argument does not mean that you can say that your own society is wonderful. Almost everyone looks nice in comparison to, say, Hitler. That doesn't mean that "less mean than Hitler" should be your goal and objective.
I'm re-reading Darkover novels, because I loved them when I read them in the '60's when I was in high school. I'm trying to see if I can spot MZB's evidently warped psychology in terms of her daughter and husbands. The novel has great world building details, and is high action. All men are pretty much disgusting. Yeah, I was considered a Women's Libbist in the '60's; the view of men in this novel appears to be overkill to me now.
