https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1456450.Angelique_and_the_King
At the end of book one, Angélique used a little blackmail to improve her lot in life and get herself a husband who can get her in the front door at Versailles.
Don't you worry, our intrepid heroine won't let a little thing like a mean-ass husband keep her away from Court and Louis XIV.
There's quite a big surprise at the ending, a surprise that turns Angélique's life upside down and on to new adventures, so I'd advise you have book three, Angélique in Barbary on hand and ready to start.
A few years ago well in France I just had to visit Versailles, and the main reason was, having read this novel.
I found this delicious book on my granny's bookshelf many years ago, boy when I read the cover, I was thinking what she is doing with this sultry book.
These books are well worth the read if you can find them.
I still have a few floating around so that I can at any time relive my youth and dream about the Sun King and Angelique at the amazing Château de Versailles
re-read, skipped pages, but still enjoying a book that i first read 20 years ago, or more...
Dok ga sav dvor slavi kao poštovanja dostojnog lovnika i poručnika Njegovog veličanstva, Anđelika je skrhana bolom jer, ne samo da joj Filip uskraćuje nešto što bi moglo i zaličiti na nježnost, već će svoje prisustvo na dvoru morati osigurati prebrodivši razne prepreke od kojih je zatočeništvo u manastiru možda čak i najmanja.„Nema ničeg otrcanijeg od greha.
Njena ljepota je poznata svima, ali njenu zlobu niko ne može ni naslutiti.U gomili tajnih saveza, sastanaka u mračnim odajama Versaja i Sen Žermena, otrova i pogubljenja, Anđelika i dalje svaku svoju, ma i najmanju pobjedu, plaća time što je sve bliže zagrljaju od strasti pomahnitalog Luja XIV.
The Angelique series was the first historical romance I ever read. Found it at my grandmas when I was in my early teens. Gosh I looove this book! The series went downhill after this one tough and I dont think I ever read all of the what feels like 1000000 Angelique books. BUT this one is a keeper, the first one was good as well.
The Angelique series was the first historical romance I ever read. Found it at my grandmas when I was in my early teens. Gosh I looove this book! The series went downhill after this one tough and I don´t think I ever read all of the what feels like 1000000 Angelique books. BUT this one is a keeper, the first one was good as well.
Wonderful historical novel set in the 1660's in France. 10 stars actually!
Read this series!
If you love historical fiction, read this book.
I stumbled upon the Angelique books quote by accident.
The first book in the series Angelique Marquise of the Angels was enthralling and wonderful!
What a wonderful book!
What a wonderful character Angelique is!
Read these books!!!
If you love quality love stories, and just plain good storytelling, read this book!
How these, pardon the slang but I don't know how else to describe them, cheesy covers got on these well written and excellent books I'll never know.
I'm sooooo excited to read book 4...I overnighted it from Amazon and it will be here tomorrow.
Angelique and the King - ExSergeanne Golon - 2nd in seriesAngelique marries her cousin Phillippe, Marquis du Plessis-Belliere, Master of the Royal Hunt, Marshal of France, a proud and magnificent courtier, but a brutal husband and a callous lover; and Louis XIV, the Sun King himself, at this time still virile and ambitious, on the threshold of his greatest victories, both in love and war.
The most spirited and beautiful woman of her age, and the mistress of great wealth, Angelique has set her heart on a place at Court, hers by birth and marriage, but denied to her by the disgrace of her first husband and the jealousy of her second.
I read (and had) the whole series, in Portuguese.
They were 14 volumes, and it was a thrilling historical fiction.
On the Internet, I found a list of 13 books, but I'm quite positive that the ones I read in Portuguese were 14 volumes.
Tetno díl pro mne byl zklamáním, očekávala jsem pohled na francouzskou historii od Angeliky a ne od historika - kronikáře.
Vzhledem k tomu, že jsem četla knihu o životě Ludvíka XIV., musím říci, že je to zcela přesné.
V Ludvíkově životě se také vyskytla postava Angeliika, která byla jeho milenkou, ale s touto fiktivní postavou nemám zcela nic společného.
Navíc byla uvedena jako hloupá a nevyýznamná( vycházím z knihy o životě Ludvíka XIV.
).Většina knihy převyprávění historie s občasným doplněním krátké ukázky z Angeličina života.
Je to nevýrazné a nezajímavé.
Přeci jenom to má býti román a ne krokinka francouzského dvora.
It's many years since I read this book as a teenager - going to Hove Library every week with my best friend of the time.
I seem to remember Angélique surviving a poisoning attempt (her mysterious husband had taught her to sip a tiny amount of poison every day and thus build up an immunity.) I also think she may have been raped - or at least assaulted - by someone in a corridoor at the court.
And surviving that as well.
I'm not sure, perhaps I will read it again sometime.As I said, it's many years ago - I may be talking arrant nonsense, feel free to correct me!
Angelique is a love story, an adventure & a great historical novel set in France in the time of Louis the Sun King & then moves to 'The New World ' in later books.
The writing is brilliant & the story of Angelique & Comte Joffrey de Peyrac keeps the pages turning until you run out of books to read.
I'm keeping everything crossed that one day someone will take these books reissue them & translate the others so we can all annoy the rest of Angelique's story's would give the books 10 stars if I could.
Questo che si svolge a Versailles alla corte di Re Sole è sempre stato il mio preferito tra tutti i libri della serie. Buona parte di quello che so su quel periodo lo devo a questa lettura, e se devo giudicare da qualche occasionale confronto con le informazioni contenute in testi molto più seri non si tratta nemmeno di un sapere del tutto disprezzabile. Con l'impareggiabile marchesa degli Angeli, comunque, il divertimento è assicurato, basta non formalizzarsi troppo per l'infinita serie dei suoi talenti, naturali e acquisiti...
If it has one star I liked it a lot If it has two stars I liked it a lot and would recommend itIf it has three stars I really really liked it a lot If it has four stars I insist you read it If it has five stars it was life changing
Sin duda esta tercera parte es mucho más histórica que romántica, en ella se aprende todo el entresijo que significó la boda de Luis XIV y sus celebraciones. Con un final que te deja en tensión hasta el próximo libro.
This is why you can't judge a book by its cover.
I read this book (actually series) when I was a budding teenager in 8th grade more than 50 years ago. Oh, what memories!
The great book continues. This one inspired me to go to Versailles.
Angelique is wonderful in all of her adventures , this is just the beginning......
I do not intend to follow Angeliques adventures anymore. Between cousins, heretics, kings and pirates, shes kinda boring me...
I do not intend to follow Angelique´s adventures anymore. Between cousins, heretics, kings and pirates, she´s kinda boring me...
Need to reread at some point. I read the whole series in the 1970's. They are out of print but I remember really liking them.
This is the third book in the Angelique series. I read this in high school many years ago.
LOOKING FOR ALL THE BOOK TO READ
I read this book maybe 23 years ago. Then I saw the movie too. Was entertaining, exciting for me, nice story.
My first in a history, romance series -- I LOVED all of them and was sad when Serge died. The last book, by Anne, clearly showed what Serge added.
I read this ages ago maybe i should read it again.I remeber i enjoyed all the Angelique books!
