https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/229021.Rite_of_Passage
Real teenagers, from my experience, are a lot more anarchic and authority flouting, less focused on growing up and more self-centered than Mia. This is not to say she is tame, or well mannered, just a tad too didactic and well organized for a 12-14 y.o.Things I liked best about the story:* fables and parables used in the text as a learning tool, storytelling in its more pure and effective guise, including the riddle games so beloved by Tolkien and a tongue-in-cheek approach to classic quests to slay the ogre and win the hand of the princess in marriage.* a project Mia has to write about ethics, where she studies "Epicureans and Utilitarians; Stoics; Power Philosophers, both sophisticated and unsophisticated; and humanists of several stripes.
Here are my favorite quotes from this later phase in the novel: I've always wondered what it would be like to be a spear carrier in somebody else's story.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.How old SF can be as crappy as new SF: "Rite of Passage" by Alexei PanshinAfter finishing “After the Apocalypse” by Maureen F.
McHugh, I wanted something from the good old days.
The only thing I remembered was that I didn’t like it at all at the time.So much junk published is called SF (“Hunger Games” by Suzanne Collins, “His Dark Materials” by Philip Pullman, etc.) and it’s very difficult to find decent reading stuff.
I wanted to know whether my memory was playing tricks on me after 30 years (it wasn’t).To start at the end, I still don’t like it.The rest of this review can be found elsewhere.
The plot of this rather fine coming-of-age SF novel is described well in several of the other reviews. Oddly enough, no one seems to mention that it is constructed around Shakespeare's Sonnet 94, which appears on the last page. Since the poem isn't nearly as well-known as it deserves to be, and it's one of my favorites, let me reproduce it here: They that have power to hurt and will do none,That do not do the thing they most do show,Who, moving others, are themselves as stone,Unmoved, cold, and
The plot of this rather fine coming-of-age SF novel is described well in several of the other reviews.
Since the poem isn't nearly as well-known as it deserves to be, and it's one of my favorites, let me reproduce it here:
They that have power to hurt and will do none,That do not do the thing they most do show,Who, moving others, are themselves as stone,Unmoved, cold, and to temptation slow,They rightly do inherit heaven's gracesAnd husband nature's riches from expense;They are the lords and owners of their faces,Others but stewards of their excellence.The summer's flower is to the summer sweet,Though to itself it only live and die,But if that flower with base infection meet,The basest weed outbraves his dignity:For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds;Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds.
Not surprising for when it was published (1968), but you'd think at some point someone would have gotten a clue and released a more contemporary cover.Reread: August 2012If I was reading this for the first time, I'd probably only give it 4 stars, as it's quite good but probably wouldn't have made my list of "favorites." However, the story has stuck with me all these years, enough that it did become one of those rare books I reread, so it keeps its 5 stars.Notable to me on this reread is that it's aged pretty well.
I'm not saying I don't believe in heroes--I'm just saying that they are either parasites or they spend the bulk of their time in making their little adventures possible, not in enjoying them."I love this book dearly.
To me, it's everything I liked about Downbelow Station and Ender's Game, but without the tedium of Cherryh's book, and without the fearful national security mentality of Card's.
This story is exciting and hopeful to anyone who has been moved to improve the times they live in, and true to the experience of growing up.It seems everyone's read Ender's Game, but how many have actually read Rite of Passage?
Bir mızrakçı, koridorda durup Sezar geçerken hazırola geçip mızrağını yere vuran kişidir.
Mızrakçı tehdit altındaki dişi kahramanı kurtarmak için ilerleyen kahramanın doğradığı isimsiz karakterdir.
Mızrakçı, hikâyeye atılabilecek bir kâğıt mendil gibi kullanılmak için konmuş bir karakterdir.
Bir hikâyede bir mızrakçı, asla birden mızrağını bir kenara atıp, "İstifa ettim.
Onlar ya atmosfer ya da kahramanın yolundaki ufak engel olarak kullanılmak için oradadırlar, işin kötüsü herkes bir mızrakçılar dünyasında yaşayan kendi kahramanıdır.
Biz kullanılıp atılmaktan hiçbir zevk almayız.""Elimde olsaydı, yalnızca birbirini iyi tanıyan insanlar birbirlerini öldürebilmeli diye bir öneri getirirdim.
Hiçbir ölüm burun silmek gibi olmamalı.
Ölüm ona neden olanı etkilemesi gerekecek kadar önemli bir şey."
It takes place in a post-apocalyptic society existing on a ship that has been hollowed out of an asteroid.
In this universe, Earth has been destroyed and humans are either existing on these ships or eking out a living on dangerous and mostly uninhabitable planets.
The ship dwellers, faced with high population pressure, devise a test for every fourteen year old.
Each adolescent is sent to one of these planets for a month with limited supplies and is challenged to survive.
As the story progresses, the main character approaches her 14th birthday and must face this life or death challenge.I really enjoyed this book.
3.5 stars. This is an really good novel (and, amazingly enough, this was Panshin's first novel). It is a classic coming of age story that is very well written, thought-provoking and has very good world-building (I really liked the interplay between the "Ships" and the "colonies"). Unlike some "SF classics" I was never bored with this one and it held my interest throughout. RECOMMENDED!!Winner: Nebula Award Best Science Fiction NovelNominee: Hugo Award Best Science Fiction Novel
A very pleasant young adult novel wrapped in science fiction critique.Like a classic YA story, we follow a protagonist (Mia Havero) as she moves through adolescence towards adulthood.
The setting also includes a space opera framework, with a destroyed Earth and low-technology colony planets.It's a rich text to think about in terms of science fiction history, especially given the period of its composition.
The devastating finale echoes another Heinlein book, Have Spacesuit Will Travel.About the ending: (view spoiler)[the climax is nearly dystopian, as the Ship agrees to destroy a planet of humans.
At age fourteen, after extensive survival training, all children are dropped off the ship at the nearest inhabitable planet.
It's Panshin's credit as a writer that he can make this passage so believable.Mia is finally dropped with her class on a planet known as Tintera.
The kids split-up, Mia deciding to spend her month on Trial exploring the planet.What she encounters is a society similar in technology and organization to what the United States knew at the Civil War. She manages to confront a band of ruffians on horseback before getting bushwhacked.
On the one hand, adult readers may be put off by a book which appears at first in both its language and ambitions to be little more than reutine young adult fiction in an exotic setting.
This is a great book that I find myself chewing over in my head time and time again, and repeatedly drawing on for insight.
Having become a parent has only deepened my appreciation for the subtleties of the book.To begin with, it is a great coming of age story.
Especially in a time when adults are embrassing young adult fiction, its time to reexamine this little gem.
I enjoyed the first two parts of this book, especially the discussions on population and power ethics and the bartering of technology, however the third part - The trial – was a disappointment(view spoiler)[: the adventure resembled a Western rather than Sci-fi and I didn’t like the fact that sex between kids just turned 14 was treated so casually (hide spoiler)]. 2  stars
I enjoyed the first two parts of this book, especially the discussions on population and power ethics and the bartering of technology, however the third part - The trial – was a disappointment(view spoiler)[: the adventure resembled a Western rather than Sci-fi and I didn’t like the fact that sex between kids just turned 14 was treated so casually (hide spoiler)]. 2 ½ stars
This brings me up to 89% done with Reading The Nebula Award Winners.I'm really sorry I somehow missed reading this book when I was a kid. I would have loved it when I was a pre-teen. As it was, I liked it, but it's very definitely a coming of age story with an Introduction to Ethics woven in.
Spoiler Alert!Rite of Passage is an easy book to pigeon-hole as a "coming of age" novel, but to do so would be a mistake and a disservice to this excellent little science fiction novel that steps beyond the genre.The book is written first person past through the eyes of the central character, Mia Havero, looking back at herself from the ages of twelve through fourteen.
Here is a tiny slice of why I love this book, and why I grieve each time I read it: "I've always wondered what it would be like to be a spear carrier in somebody else's story.
A spear carrier is a character put in a story to be used like a piece of disposable tissue.
Despite the author's unfortunate lack of notable secondary female characters, Mia herself is never pathetic and is a fully *human* being.) I recognized myself in this story when I first read it as a teenager between terms at the UW.
The one above is my favorite because it is the cover from my first reading.
Dated SF published in 1968. It's one of those books that's entertaining in how it reflects its own time more than the future it's describing, though with a few surprises, including a disturbing ending. It's a bit over-explanatory and preachy, but a good adventure most of the time. (November 19, 2006)
(The "men on the counsel" for example should be people or counsel members.) The POV character is female, lives on a generation ship, explores & discovers what it means to be human and to grow and to wrestle with justice and fairness, and I identified with her perfectly the first time I read this novel in about 1972.One of my favorite passages: I've always wondered what it would be like to be a spear carrier in somebody else's story.
A spear carrier is a character put in a story to be used like a piece of disposable tissue.
If I had read this book when I was growing up, it would have ended up shelved next to Julie of the Wolves, A Wrinkle in Time, Call of the Wild, and Robot Dreams and fully earned its place.I must begin this review with the honest disclosure that my curiosity regarding reading it was entirely spurred by my unfortunate association with one Tobiah Panshin, mutant Russian gremlin and general beard-carrying spawn of the author.
The ranks of people that dislike this are, nine times out of ten, the ones who praise books like A Clockwork Orange for the exact same behavior in a male.
4/5I couldn’t help but write down some thoughts I had while reading Rite of Passage.Trial, the practice of marooning 14 year olds on alien and unfamiliar worlds for 30 days came off as absurd to me.
I liked that the ship’s government reminded me of Alastair Reynold’s Demarchists (Reynolds of course doesn’t claim to have invented this idea, but his books introduced it to me).Overall, a Rite of Passage is a wonderful coming of age story that is worth your time and thoughts.
I read Alexei Panshin's Rite of Passage again.
This Trial is the mark of adulthood in their community of thirty thousand, their 'Rite of Passage'.The story began with Mia's little joys and frustrations.
I mean broader in the intellectual sense rather than things like epic action with is usually expected of sci-fi stories.Mia's growth is a course of continuing discarding her own previous convictions and embracing new.
As an individual, Mia came to her own conclusion of how to deal with planet people.
It's very like Ship and Planet relationship in Rite of Passage.
I've loved this book ever since my father read it to me when I was little. I loved how Mia wasn't always perfect- she fought with her father, was mean to her friends, and didn't always what she was told. When she was scared, she was direct about it, "Call me a cautious tiger". She made her own decisions and accepted the consequences, was loyal to herself and her friends. And she survived to became an adult. By far one of my favorite coming of age stories ever.
I think what worked much better for me was Panshin's world building, his character development, and keeping trial to a much smaller piece of the book.This is also a novel that raises some moral and ethical questions.
I know they're making Ender's Game into a movie, but this would also make for a good movie.Personal note: With tweens/YA running to books such as Twilight and The Hunger Games (which I think is overrated) I wish more YA/tweens did read Ender's Game and especially girls Rite of Passage.
These books raise ethical and moral issue, and Mia is a stronger female character than Katniss (caveat the first book bored me enough not to read the next two-the love triangle and Katniss' survival was so obvious).
SPOILER ALERT!!!....................It is interesting to me that, in the final debate about the fate of Tintera, NO ONE mentioned the fate of the Losels.
I am presuming that anything done to destroy the human inhabitants of Tintera would also destroy any other living being on the planet.
I don't see how they could wipe out thousands or millions of humans without also wiping out other living things, including the possibly sentient Losels.
This book is one reason why I enjoy science fiction - it takes an aspect of our society, distorts it in some way, and explores the consequences and therefore the implications of it.
It was quite a fascinating read, and I really enjoyed the young person first person perspective.
I think this would have been powerful to read as a teenager, a lot of thought about growing up and finding your purpose.
The titular rite of passage at first I thought would be the Trial that all young people in the Ship society are to make, to survive 30 days being dropped off on a wild colonial planet, but the actual rite of passage was something that calls into question the whole reason for being of the Ship people.
I don't think I saw the comparisons being drawn, but it was interesting to see someone's thoughts written out as processed by this book.
This book is one I'd like to read in my English classes this year, both because it features a female protagonist and it's a good introduction to science fiction.
This Rite will drop her to a colony so she can prove her adulthood by surviving for a month on her own (or die in the process).
Her issues are identifiable for most—the ways we blundered through the world, slowly gaining awareness of the people around us as teens—and for that I think it is a good read.
I'm surprised that I have not heard of this book before reading it, as I can see it being very popular as recommended reading for young adults.
It is an intelligent coming of age story that explores the oldest ethical issues with which humanity continues to grapple, such as the proper way to distribute power and the dilemma of stable passivity versus dynamic action.
I thought that the author didn't go into enough description when dealing with some of the technologies being used but it did not degrade the overall story, as it is mostly an exploration of ethics, but I am a Science Fiction neophyte for the most part.
I love a coming of age story and this one set in a society aboard an interstellar spaceship hits all the right notes for me.
We get to see how the society works and how the young members are tested by dropping them off on alien worlds to see if they can survive and then become full citizens of the ship.
The story is told by Mia herself which helps draw us into her world.
This is an exciting story well told that will make you think afterward about what it means to be a citizen in any society.
A science fiction novel about deontological ethics--imagine that!
How could I not love it?Science fiction is justified as something more than mere escapist entertainment by its inherent capacity to radically challenge its readers' presuppositions and worldviews.
Indeed, Norman Spinrad's The Iron Dream, a space opera composed in an alternative past by a mediocre SF writer, Adolf Hitler, represents how bad novels in the field can even reinforce the prejudices of their readers.
Opposed to that exaggerated example, however, are such books as Panshin's Rite of Passage and many of the novels of Theodore Sturgeon and Ursula K.
I just finished re-reading this.
It's been many years since I read it the first time, and I have to admit--the story is STILL great.
It deals with a great many concerns we all have as we grow up.
While largely an adventure novel set in the far (200 years) future, it is also a study on what makes something "right" and moral.
The last quarter of the book deals with that question, and how the protagenists deal with that question.There is a reason that this book won the Nebula Award and that is because of the strength of the writing and the story.Excellent job, Alexi.
