https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17332858-a-very-short-story
A brief story about a soldier who falls in love with an Italian nurse, only for the nurse to outgrow their relationship and move onto someone else. While the length of the story does not allow for much character development, Hemingway still captures the sad, bittersweet feeling of separation after people grow apart and change. Within the context of war, he highlights a particular feeling of loss, if only for a fleeting moment.
از اینجا می تونید ترجمه رو بخونید:http://neoart.mihanblog.com/post/74
According to wikipedia Ernest Hemingway's relationship with Agnes von Kurowsky was the basis for this story. It was truley a very short story ! But the sadness wasn't that short long :(Story in English : https://biblioklept.org/2012/07/24/a-...Story in Persian : http://neoart.mihanblog.com/post/74
I started reading this with an advanced regret because I knew that after the first page it'll end in the next. Seven paragraphs of reasonable length. Less than a minute read, if you read fast. Yet it contains a lot, like it was that pinprick of light, or condensed energy, before the Big Bang which became the universe we now know.
I have not enjoyed it, not even a little bit.
1 star: I did not like this book, either terrible storyline, morally unacceptable or because I just did not enjoy reading the book at all.This story just wasn't interesting in any way. Nothing at all in it that stood out, and the ideas themselves were just dull. A one star rating is something I usually avoid giving but honestly this doesn't deserve any more than one star. I don't have anything else to say about this story.
I think it would be my last short story to read from this collection of Hemingway's stories.I have read more than ten stories and he doesn not convice me as a very good writer. What's this ! I noticed that he just wants to write anything. Some of his stories was good but nothing special.Other short story writers like Chekhov, Allan poe and Mopassant made me really astonished after the first reading.
This is the first time I am giving such a low rating for Hemingway. But what to do.! I was thoroughly bored with the story. It might have the presentation style to its advantage,being written by an author of class. But it had huge holes in the plot. It is a very short story like the title says and you can try it for yourself to see the point.
Read in The Snows of Kilimanjaro and Other Stories. A soldier falls for his nurse. They have big plans, but their love does not last.
Stark, poignant, and dry. Yuck ... Hemingway.
I read this in Mandarin during my Chinese class. It is a story of unreciprocated love- the plot has potential, but falls short with its lack of emotion.
This is my first read for college and I have to reread it probably a lot more to make an analysis but y'know... could be better but could also be worse.
3 out of 5
During the war we see the narrator having a close relationship with Luz and they are talking about marriage.
Young Americans and Old Europeans- The USA is still a relatively young country, and Hemingway depicts this by having all Americans in this story as young, inexperienced, and naive.
This shows how naive and unprepared both the narrator (gonorrhea) and Luz (pregnancy) were for what postwar life has in store for them.
Taking way too much from his actual life- He’s basing his characters off of real people, he’s basing the story around a similar instance happening to him.
As the title suggested, it was a very short story.
As the name suggests, it really is a very short story. I found the whole story was interesting but I thought the ending seemed incomplete, as if it lacked one line or sentence that would connect the whole thing together. Other than that, it was interesting.
As the name suggests, it really is a short story but is filled with content.
eh
The end of Nick's saga: one cut short like the lives cut short by the Great War. Beautiful allegory.
1.7 STARSRight Now I am so confused.
دردهای روزمره
