https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/827430.Ben_and_Me
I loved this cartoon Disney did as a child.
I finally got around to reading this.
The cartoon does not have them go to France and both Amos and Ben go to France in this book.
Disney lifted most of the scenes from the book.It is fun to see the play between Mouse and Ben and the history of our country.
It is an interesting way to tell history.
This book still rings true and is so playful with your imagination.
I think it is still a great book for kids.
You can't help but love Amos.
Great read.
David McCullogh says "I can never be in Old Christ Church without wondering if perhaps some of Amos's line are still there, back behind the paneling."
Approximate date of first read: 1983Impressions: The story would probably make it easier for a kid to remember facts about Benjamin Franklin (the printing press, the electrical experiments, etc.).
I liked that the writing style was reminiscent of 18th century writing while still being age-appropriate.
How it warped me: Whenever I think about Benjamin Franklin (which is kind of a lot), I think of him wearing a nasty old hat with a mouse inside of it.
I don't know, maybe it also taught me a lesson or two about collaboration and the importance of a strong support network in the creative process.
But mostly, I learned that Benjamin Franklin is gross.
I read this short tale out loud to the kids. The fact that it was first published in 1939 might account for the plethora of vocabulary words it contains. But the kids followed along just fine and learned a little about Ben Franklin to boot. The story is narrated by Ben's pet mouse Amos who enjoys taking most of the credit for Ben's inventions.
They made us watch the cartoon version in history class. We also watched Labyrinth in health class, and Vincent Price's Tales of Terror in math class. So, understandably, I cringe when liberal arts colleges hand out film studies degrees: it's like these kids went to college to have four years of my sixth grade.
As I child, I adored this book. I think it was ahead of its time in its use of irony, and the illustrations are priceless. It was one of those books long laughed over and remembered, a milestone in children's literature that still makes me smile with its warmth and humor. I couldn't wait to share it with my children. I love it and highly recommend it.
3 1/2 stars. Quite a cute book and lots of fun--maybe not the most memorable for me, but certainly enjoyable :-)
2009 - This is the story of Benjamin Franklin's adult life from the time just before he invents the Franklin Stove to his 81st birthday.
While it does hit upon the true events of Franklin's life it pokes fun at him and is more enjoyed by someone who already knows the famous man's life story and accomplishments however briefly.
Since Ben Franklin had been brought up in our other recent read-alouds my 8yo understood the comedy of the situation and really found the mouse and the circumstances Ben found himself in quite funny.
But do make sure they know who Franklin is first so they can enjoy the book to it's fullest.
Not only does Amos help Franklin with a lot of his work, he's basically the one who accomplishes it all and Ben is really almost just the mouthpiece and hands.
Amos travels with Ben to France and while there, Amos even helps liberate a family of mice and brings them home to America!After reading the book, I went right back to youtube to find the film (barely fifteen minutes long).
This is a very fun, historical read for kids, or even adults, if like me, you have fond memories of the film from your childhood.
My 3rd grade (reluctant) reader read this for school and found it entertaining. It's educational and the mouse's humor kept his attention. Win-win.
Another great, satirical book by Lawson!
If you've read "Mr. Revere and I" by Lawson, than you know what a treat you're in for.
If you haven't read it, than you better get reading, because both titles are winners!Written from a mouse's point of view, you'll see many of Benjamin Franklin's great moments; moments that the mouse claims were feats of his doing.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
It cannot be denied that Benjamin Franklin was a great man. He was a writer, a scientist, an inventor, and a diplomat. His experiments with lightning and electricity made him world famous. He also played an important role in our nation’s fight for independence. Yes, Ben Franklin was a great man, but how was he able accomplish all these things by himself? According to author Robert Lawson, Franklin may have had a little help in the form of a wise mouse named Amos. “Since the recent death of my l
Yes, Ben Franklin was a great man, but how was he able accomplish all these things by himself?
Most of these are wrong in so many respects that I feel the time has now come for me to take pen in paw and set things right…For many years I was his closest friend and adviser and, if I do say it, was in great part responsible for his success and fame.”	In Amos’ account, it is he who gives Franklin the idea to build the first indoor stove.
I felt compelled to correct some of the history--especially about Franklin's invention of the lightening rod, which was told rather creatively, somewhat after the fashion of the whimsical stories about the childhood of George Washington by another author which have been accepted by many children as true stories.
It may be fun to play with history in fiction, but I find it necessary to correct places where fact and fiction collide in ways that children may accept as fact.
Despite the flights of fancy, this is just a fun and exciting adventure fantasy which two guys, 60 years apart in age, both found to be a good story.
It was ME.For many years I was his closest friend and adviser and, if I do say it, was in great part responsible for his success and fame.Not that I wish to claim too much: I simply hope to see justice done, credit given where credit is due, and that's to me - mostly.Ben was undoubtedly a splendid fellow, a great man, a patriot and all that; but he was undeniably stupid at times, and had it not been for me - well, here's the true story, and you can judge for yourself."
I have vague recollections of finding this humorous as a kid, but I don't think I enjoyed this as much as an adult.
Too much of the book is concerned with making Franklin seem like a clueless buffoon.
As an adult, I understand the humor, but I have a hard time believing that kids would get it to the necessary degree.
I think kids get that just fine, though they would likely miss the revolutionary references.
I don't see this book as a substitute for a top quality juvenile biography, and I would only recommend it to children who are truly ready to understand and appreciate the satirical elements.
So many books about american history in my childhood. Clearly it is the only history that matters, my childhood books insist. MORE AND MORE FOUNDING FATHERS BECAUSE THEY ARE THE ONLY WORTHY AND SAFE ROLE MODELS.Fun book, though.
Read this as a child, and to Jake when he was young. Just read a third time for parent child book club. A fun read, giving a view of Ben Franklin's life from a mouse's point of view - taking credit for most of Franklin's accomplishments! (Library)
adorable
Read this aloud to eldest to coincide with her American history lessons for 4th grade. Fun fictional account of Ben Franklin's life.
The story of Ben Franklin as told by his friend, Amos the mouse.I remember this one being better when I was a kid, but this time around I found the language too stilted for a kid's book, and Charlie didn't really enjoy it much, either. *shrug*
Will Amos and Ben be able to hang in through their differences?Discussion.A few years back, I read Robert Lawson’s book Mr. Revere and I.
The fact that the story is accompanied by Lawson’s illustrations makes it one of the best things that’s ever happened.In something of a deviation from the main plot, Amos takes it upon himself to aid a French mouse, Sophia, whose husband has been deported to America and children taken capture by the mice at Versailles.
Just read this for a children's lit class and it is a fun introduction to Benjamin Franklin. The illustrations are wonderful too.
A MOUSE TALE ON TWO CONTINENTS Lawson's 1939 spoof of the life of Benjamin Franklin in his elder years proves delightful literary fluff and a quick read for kids of all ages.
Having decided to make his way in the world, though not too far from his extensive family who reside in penury in a church Vestry, Amos moves in with an inquisitive and enterprising older gent named Ben Franklin.
By the time of Ben's 81st birthday Amos--ever the bachelor--is content to relax and enjoy the antics of the younger generation.
In most of the book Amos is a participant or bystander when Mr. Franklin does things but at the end of the book, in France, he becomes friends with a female mouse whose husband has already emigrated to America, and whose children are being held captive under the chair of the Queen of France, and Amos orchestrates their daring rescue (while unintentionally humiliating Ben Franklin who decides to return to the U.S.)Robert Lawson's intricate illustrations are fantastic as always.
I read this book in 4th grade and loved it. The narrator, who is a mouse name Amos, writes a memoir of his friendship with Ben Franklin and, as it turns out, is really the brains of the outfit. In the 4th grade my Ms looked like Ns so in my book report, Ben Franklin's side-kick was named Anus. My dad thought this was hilarious. I just finished reading this to July and loved it again. The best part of the book, though, are Lawson's wonderful illustrations.
I am cleaning out my hoard of books and this was the first on the pile to read. I thought the illustrations were adorable but the story wasn't anything special. It gave a very general and fanciful version of Ben Franklin's later years and why he became this super important inventor/politician.The mouse perspective was a little strange, but I can see the appeal to younger audiences. At most 2.5 stars.
I truly love this story since I truly cannot stand Benjamin Franklin. Except when he comes on green paper.
I think it was ok... but my view may be skewed by us using it for school and breaking it down daily. Because it's written a bit differently (different times) just wasn't as into it when it was broken up so much with school work. But there are some cute parts, and I do see the educational value in it. Worth reading.
Read this to the boys recently. This was one of my favourites when I was younger: a very whimsical take on Benjamin Franklin and the real secret to his success: the wisdom (at least he thinks so) of the mouse Amos.
interesting idea
