https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14817.A_Scanner_Darkly
Arctor appears to be just another burned out druggie who lives with a couple of other dopers, and they spend most of their time getting high on Substance D and assorted other drugs.
Since he can’t reveal his identity, Arctor has to play out the fiction that he’s investigating himself, but his brains have gotten so slushed from Substance D that he’s having a hard time keeping track of who he actually is.Bob’s increasing confusion about identity and reality is the kind of theme that Dick specialized in, and Bob’s progressive meltdown is some of my favorite writing he did regarding that.
The overall feeling of the book was kind of like Fight Club meets Naked Lunch or something.
I can't help but think that DFW's descriptions of addiction and delirium in Infinite Jest and The Pale King were at least partially inspired by PDK although DFW said he had never taken the hard stuff.I also have owned Linkletter's animated film of the book since the DVD was released and - although I have not watched in in several years - I recall it being quite faithful to the book and that the animation was groundbreaking at the time.
A reader of PKD’s works will notice the recurring theme here, as in several other works, of the idea of split personalities, of a protagonist coming to grips with multiple sides of his own ego.
Another recurring theme, perhaps helped along by PKD’s own struggles with schizophrenia, is one of surveillance and, concurrently, helplessness while being watched.
The pervasive paranoia and the multiple layers of theatrical irony are the elements of this story that will stay with the reader long after the book has been set down.
In his Author's Note to A Scanner Darkly, PKD lists fifteen of the people he loved who lost life or sanity during those outrageous years.
7. Robert Arctor, One: Bob was once a straight, living with his wife and two little girls out in their three bedroom house, working as an investigator for an insurance company, but one day Bob hit his head in the kitchen and all instantly came clear in a flash: his entire life was a sham, nothing but a deadly routine and he hated all of it.
Robert Arctor, Two: To support his drug habit and live in his now rundown doper house, Bob takes on the job of undercover narcotics agent.
I'm still pissed about the loss and have a hard time seeing through the glass at all.****So, I'm going to give review resurrection a shot: 'A Scanner Darkly' fits well on the addiction/drug/alcoholism as literature shelf.
This list is basically unending.It seems like all novels about drug abuse, alcohol addiction, etc.., almost inevitably become a form of science fiction.
It is like science fiction was created (in the beginning) by some belladonna-infused deity and formed into a perfect literary template to explain/capture all the paranoia and weirdness of the trips highs and lows.It is impossible to read a novel about addiction without recognizing the author's fingerprints all over it.
It’s a realistic view of how drugs affect the mind and relationships.
The story follows the character of Bob and his friends, who are both using and selling a mind-bending drug called Substance D.
Here are some of my favourite examples of what the writing is like in this book:Happiness, he thought, is knowing you got some pills.What did any man, doing any kind of work, know about his actual motives?To see that warm living person burn out from the inside, burn from the heart outward.
I know it doesn’t make a huge impact to the story and in fact it’s there to some something about the psyche of our main character but it irritated me all the same.
The story did surprise me in a couple of places, notably (view spoiler)[Luckman's unintentional drug trip (hide spoiler)] which, while genius, does miss the consequence point he seems to want to make; and in the plot twist at the very end.
Like the main character, Bob Arctor/Fred, PKD seems of two minds about the book: does he want to tell a story of extreme consequences to deliberate recreational drug use, or does he want to tell a mystery noir, with undercover agents, spying, illegal drug running, and conspiracies?That said, character creation was brilliant.
Good thing I didn’t tell myself I’d lose weight!
The one thing I have always told myself is I need to read a Philip K.
Our MC, Bob Arctor, is a small-time dealer looking to go big with the new drug of choice known as Substance D.
He’s also an undercover agent known as Fred who is trying to bust a small-time dealer looking to go big known as Bob Arctor.
Aside from the scanner suit, it’s like Philip K.
Not interested in reading or listening to the book?
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Who am I?
Probably my favourite single episode in all of Dick's stories I've ever read--and I was quite overjoyed to see this faithfully recreated in the film adaptation--is still the "suicide" sequence from “A Scanner Darkly”.
In short, I don't think Dick was ever bad at writing--he just doesn't seem to have had any real interest in the kind of writing that people like James Joyce or William Burroughs (or Pynchon, for whom to my mind it seems that both Joyce and Burroughs were major stylistic influences) were famous for.If you're into SF, read on.
I think the later PKD novels tend to be more serious and introspective though the weirdness is always present.A Scanner Darkly is one of his early 70s books and I find it more grounded than his earlier books, less insane and a little less fun to read.
Not my favorite PKD as there are dull patches here and there but overall a very worthwhile read and one of his more “important” novels.And now a mini-review of A Scanner Darkly, 2006 movieIt is a good movie with a unique look and good performances by the actors.
3.5 stars rounded to 4 after the epilogue.One day I figure out all of a Philip K.
Dick novel.
But let me tell you, some of the situations and conversations I experienced in this book could possibly be the wildest I’ve come across – since reading my last Dick novel.
In an epilogue, he offers his reason for writing A Scanner Darkly.
“I am not a character in the novel.
I am the novel.” Maybe no moral, but definitely a message: Drugs take no prisoners.
Fittingly, he named the drug in this book “Substance D” - death for short.
Maybe I have a soft spot in my heart for all those wonderful novels that either deal with the nature of reality, of conscious identity, of drug use, or just plain consequences of one's actions.Fortunately for me, I've got so many of my favorite themes in one novel.
PKD's dark universe and exploration of the mind falling apart, of draconian measures tearing harmless people apart, of the absolute irony of the end of the novel...
He smoked some pot and dropped a few tabs of acid in his life, but he was also a man of his times.
There are moments of hilarity (mainly centered on two crazy housemates named Barris and Luckman, played brilliantly by Robert Downey Jr. and Woody Harrelson in the Richard Linklater film version), tragedy, pure horror, and then long stretches where stoners just ramble on about random stuff.
My favorite scenes in the book were done to perfection, like Freck getting pulled over, the discovery of the still-lit joint, the stolen mountain bike, the home-made silencer, and the clowning around of Luckman and Barris were brilliantly captured by Downey and Harrelson (I wonder, did PKD write the parts just for them, seeing into the future?).
Science fiction classic from 1977 that explores the complex and ultimately deadly interplay between capitalism, surveillance, mental illness and drug addiction, predicting the much more corporate controlled, disciplinary, panoptical, drugged society we live in today. It reveals the absurdity and hypocrisy of what would become known as the "war on drugs," as it uncovers the corporate roots of the whole cynical enterprise.One of my all-time favorites.
But despite the weight of this heavy topic, the author finds a balance between the gay and the sad, the asides and the profound, the thinking and the feeling, the despair and the hope.
Even if I wanted to go in I couldn't, so after enjoying a bit of warmth, I find myself walking further through my tunnels of thought, leaving behind the warmth of the passion passageway, looking for a little laugh, an answer maybe, to any question, take a pick, then take a another turn around another corner.
Worryingly for Fred, the results of divided visual field and embedded figures tests suggest that his cortical hemispheres are becoming functionally separate, as they gradually lose the ability to communicate and fail to integrate information.Here, the author melds science-fiction with science-fact, with an inspired reading of Sperry’s work on split-brain patients.
In Dick’s novel, ‘Substance D’ induces a similar splitbrain disconnection (directly referencing Sperry in some passages), providing an explanation for the protagonist’s increasingly fractionated and incoherent self-consciousness.Far from being a fantastical notion of a far-flung plot, the idea that psychosis might result from a disengagement of the hemispheres was subsequently discussed in the scientific literature and is still influential today.
Written in the 70s and set in the 90s this is Dick’s semi-autobiographical description of drug use, abuse and addiction.
Also central in this book is a drug called substance D (a new, very addictive drug also called D and Slow Death) and Fred is tasked with trying to find a way to the suppliers.
Fred/Bob become increasingly blurred as Arctor becomes addicted to D.
Fred/Arctor goes into a rehabilitation unit (he is now called Bruce) and spends his days doing straightforward manual tasks.There are other characters in the book.
What better reward could I ask for, though, than to have finally allowed myself to read a book I knew I would love from the moment I saw the film, A Scanner Darkly?I have wanted to read this book since the first time I heard of it, way back in the heady year of 2004 when I was working the front desk of a hostel in Prague and running a traveler's lending library of english-language literature.
I've read nearly two dozen of Dick's books in the time since then but for one reason or another have never returned to A Scanner Darkly until now.
A Scanner Darkly isn't just a great book, it's an IMPORTANT book!Phillip K Dick's A Scanner Darkly follows the journey of Bob Arctor, an undercover police officer (code-named "Fred") trying to ingratiate himself into the drug culture in an attempt to bring down the suppliers of Substance D, a highly addictive mind-altering drug that can eventually cause permanent brain damage.
What follows is a sad but compelling portrait of a sympathetic hero's slow descent into madness.What makes this book so powerful is that PKD does such a masterful job of detailing the horrors of drug addiction.
This book is the story of Fred, the narcotics agent, and Bob Arctor, the substance D dealer, who he is investigating.
Of course, Fred and Bob Arctor are one person who is having his personality split apart by copious abuse of substance D.This book is simultaneously hilarious and heart breaking and it is a really excellent portrayal of drug addiction.
Supposedly this book is pulled heavily from Philip K Dick's personal experimentation with drug abuse and his friends who died.
Accordingly the characters are brilliantly and believably depicted.
5/10I seem to struggle with classic sci-fi, the last few have fallen flat for me.
I like sci-fi but I felt like I was too sober for this one.
But I just didn't enjoy reading it and I guess that's why I read, for enjoyment.
Some friends of mine really like this and I've read they're reviews with interest as I struggled through what they really enjoyed.
I wouldn't be in a big rush to read anymore PKD in the near future but maybe down the line if I'm compelled to try some more classic sci-fi.
No narrative tension, the writing is awful (I would quote some of it as proof, but I already got rid of my copy), and the most potentially exciting elements of the book (drug subculture and its lingo and take on friendship, multiple identities) are handled with the zest and elegance of a cut-rate rectal exam.
Usually Dick's weaker writing is forgivable because you can see him grasping at too many ideas; he's trying to cram so much into one story that his prose cannot contain the inventiveness.
But with "A Scanner Darkly" you can see him trying to cash in on his drug experiences and years of paranoia but coming up with nothing.
The authors note at the end of the novel is really powerful.
In it PKD talks about how many people play with drugs and end up paying too high a price for the choice.
Even if you don't read this, pick it up in a book store and read the authors note at the end.
It gives a perspective on drug use that most people haven't considered.
The story itself is fantastically written and wonderfully weird in true PKD style.
I really enjoyed it, although parts of it made for uncomfortable reading, also in true PKD style.
Well worth reading.
I watched the Richard Linklater film version of this again over the weekend, and besides confirming that it's my favorite Dick adaptation it also reminded me how much I love the book. Besides being a perfect exemplification of out-there paranoia (the circular structure really turns the screw on this), like almost every book of his it's also firmly and tangibly rooted in the things and relationships of mundane daily life. This book gives me a paranoia contact high.
Extracts from research publications available in the 1970s emphasise that without those connections, there are in effect two 'voices' within the head, and it is this confusion which makes Bob, in his 'Fred' guise - which is the name he uses to report to his employers - view Bob Arctor as possibly being one of the higher level dealers of Substance D whom he has been trying to locate.The question of identity and of the nature of reality is a theme that comes up in quite a few of the author's novels; here it is put in question by drug taking rather than a breakdown of one reality into another.
The science fiction elements are simply a platform PKD uses to write what is basically a polemical novel about the destruction of the body and brain from a hypothetical drug which happens to mirror actual drug destruction from addictions.
Fictional as this drug is in the story, many of its effects on addicts are clearly based on very real world observations of actual drug addicts.Reality isn't good enough or too painful or boring for many of the book's characters, and drugs are a fast and easy relief.
Međutim, kao što sam već rekao, to su bili delovi, dok je veći deo knjige bio nerazumljiv i čak pomalo apsurdan (ljudi drže životinje na krovu?
na krovu?!).Sličan utisak imam i sa ovom knjigom, ne mogu da kažem da je loša, ali da je nevešto napisana, da su slike i rečenice nabacane – mogu.
Dik se ponovo bavi pitanjem identiteta, glavni lik više ne zna ko je, da li nadgleda druge ili njega nadgledaju.
Ili je možda i jedno i drugo?Trip je čitati ovu knjigu, što je očekivano, na kraju krajeva, jer ipak ona govori o drogama i zavisnosti.
Jedino bih voleo da je Dik bio u stanju da stilski bolje uobliči priču.
Police informant in a dystopic future America begins to fracture his consciousness as he takes increasing quantities of drugs to maintain his cover.Hm. This is a confused, rather disarticulated book, so I have no problem talking about it in the same manner:• Like a lot of dystopic futures, this one feels incredibly dated. Dystopias are projected anxieties, and this particular projection of America rapidly losing the drug war is so specific to Dick's personal trauma, and to a specific moment in A
Police informant in a dystopic future America begins to fracture his consciousness as he takes increasing quantities of drugs to maintain his cover.Hm. This is a confused, rather disarticulated book, so I have no problem talking about it in the same manner:•	Like a lot of dystopic futures, this one feels incredibly dated.
Dystopias are projected anxieties, and this particular projection of America rapidly losing the drug war is so specific to Dick's personal trauma, and to a specific moment in American culture, that it's hard to understand now.
One of Dick's best novels, this semi autobiographical novel is masterful in its description of drug use and the effect it has on the people taking them.
The dialogue between the characters is often very funny and I would find myself laughing at their nonsensical conversations until I remembered that the reason for the funny dialogue was that these people were so messed up on "substance D" that they had become completely psychotic.
Recommended!!!Winner: British Science Fiction Award for best novelNominee: John W.
Campbell Award for best novelNominee: Locus Award for best science fiction novel.
I read this years before it ever became a movie (which I have not seen) and I thought A SCANNER DARKLY was both funny and thought provoking. I would read this book again.
