https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6023056-act-like-a-lady-think-like-a-man
On one hand, I admire the fact that Steve Harvey gives it to you straight and without a TRACE of subtlety (or sugar-coating if you will), the reasons why the majority of men ARE the way they are, and why we, as women, are unknowingly encouraging them to continue bad habits.
بيبدأ المؤلف بالطلب من السيدة اللي بتقرأ الكتاب انها تنسى كل الكلام اللي سمعته عن عقلية الرجل من الم
I hate books that treat women as though they are objects to be sought after by men.I hate books that teach women how to manipulate men.I hate books that teach men how to manipulate women.I hate books that take gender relations back to the 50's.But you know what I hate the most?I hate it when women want to be independent modern women that shouldn't be held back by outdated stereotypes, and yet that still want to hold men to those stereotypes.And that is what this book does.At one point, Steve Harvey says that it's not fair that women are judged by how the house is kept.
It assumes that women are the ones who need to change in order to be happy in a relationship, as if men were perfect in their existence, and it is women who are still struggling to achieve that same level of perfection.
Even when Harvey discusses men who treat women like dirt and use them for sex, he turns it around on women, claiming that it's the woman's behavior that caused the man to treat her that way - men are above fault and blame.There are so many double standards in the book it was disturbing.
It is really sad to think that so many women are desperately seeking solutions in dealing with their relationships to no avail.Now back to my review of the book, really the best thing about it is the fact that it is such an easy read and that you really don’t spend that much time getting through it.
But following everything he says in this book to the letter will really reduce your relationship to a game instead of something in which two grown intelligent people are building.In terms of the advice it all sounds like the advice that a father will give to his daughter before she goes out on her first date.
"That's what your girlfriends are for." Because "women love to sit and talk for no apparent reason but to talk".12.) The perfect woman - "capable of interesting conversation (which contradicts the above), you cook a mean breakfast, you hand out backrubs like sandwiches, you're independent (which means, to him, that you're not going to be in his pockets)".
And honestly, men should be livid that people like Steve are out there saying that men are basically egotistical walking impulses with no discretion, no thoughts, no nurturing instincts, minimal care for their partner's hopes and dreams and needs unless that partner makes his life perfect and easy, and of very little value except for what he brings home and what he can do in bed.
Mr. Harvey gives straight, common sense advice about men that could be used by teenage girls just beginning the dating cycle to women married/divorced with kids.
I felt the book was primarily geared toward young women just starting to date...As for married women, Mr. Harvey gives some advice on keeping your man happy at home.
He mentions how men will do almost anything to get sex and how not to be used for sex if your goal is a long-term relationship.Mr. Harvey gives a brief insight into his own life at the beginning of each chapter, then delves into the topics that range from:The Mind Set of a Man:- Three things that drive a man: 1.
Clearly this guy is a relationship expert since he's been married three times himself, so who better to tell us women how to act right for our man.
The only book this guy is qualified to write is "How to Make Money in Comedy Without Being the Least Bit Funny", really, a self-help book for women written by a thrice-married egomaniac made into a movie starring a women beater .
Act Like a Lady, Think Like a Man by comedian, Steve Harvey, is as simple as the title.
Moreover, Harvey insists all men are simple, like him.
According to this book, whenever a “real man” chats with a woman it is because he wants to sleep with her.
Mr. Harvey compares dating to sport fishing: a woman who is too easy is a “throwback,” not a “keeper.” So, ladies, if you want to be kept by a 55-year-old talk show host, this book is for you.
Perhaps everyone who borrowed it expected a book by a comedian to be funny, or at least witty.
I saw this book being promoted on "Oprah" one afternoon (rarity, since I typically work until 5) and thought he made a lot of sense. So, I picked the book up and within 2 days I read it cover to cover. Excellent. I recommend it for any woman struggling with relationships with men. It brought a lot of clarity to what I have been going through and made me realize what to look for in men.
Every girl in her right mind who has read a good relationship book knows not to make a "list" about what her "dream" man is.
After telling women they need to act like a lady, he says this: "This "If he wants to marry me, he'll ask me" thing has got to stop.
In the Q&A section, a question asks "What do men think of women who buy drinks?" and he says "It's a total come-on.
Okay, the guys can do the heavy lifting, they're much better equipped for it, but I'm from a generation of women who decided nobody was going to tell us what to do, or what not to do, including painting, mowing the lawn, and finding what's making that funny noise in the car.
And we seem to have gotten married at the same rate as women from the fifties, which is the decade this book sounds like it came from.I have to question the sanity of someone who says that we all know women run the household, but women should continue to let men think they run it.
There are so many things wrong about the advice in this book.
I mean, right off the bat, he admires his wife for giving up scuba diving because he is afraid something will happen to her.
My husband happens to think it's sexy.
Follow the advice in this book and you'll find yourself back in the stone ages being drug to the man cave with a huge bump on your head.
Not all men think this way.
I gave up and didn't finish the book about three-fourths the way through.
It's also a shame that this book is on the best sellers' list.
Just some more cliche'd rubbish spouted forth in order to make a few bucks.
The best thing about this book was that when men saw me reading it, they would get ALL KINDS of bent outta shape.
I love the part encouraging women to "get some standards." It's sad that people need to be told that but, obviously, they do.
But, it is also kind of sad that Harvey sets up men as these brainless little creatures who will only act right if you make them.
Surely there are some men out there who have standards of their own and don't need you to dictate yours in order to act accordingly.
All of that said, it was an entertaining book and a quick read.
تعتبر خطيئة كبيرة أن تبدا عامك الجديد بقراءة هذا النوع من الكتب خصوصا إنني اخرج دائما خالية الوفاض فما شأني برجل وماشأني بالمرأة عذرا عامي الجديد سوف أكون اكثر حذرا ويقظةوتوبةتوبةتوبة
This book is a bit oldfashioned, and I don't agree with everything the author says. Still, it would not hurt girls and women to read it. Might make them think. Would make a great gift for a girl/woman who tends to get too cosy with a man at too early a stage of a new relationship.
I actually wanted to give up at page 10.What century does this guy think he's living in ?
To sum up what I've learned throughout those 50 pages about what he thinks of women : they are all kind, compassionate, nurturing, sweet, their main goal in life is to raise the kids and cook nice meals, while waiting for their man to bring the money home.
I know----the title should have clued me in, but a friend highly recommended it and I fell for it.
Suffice it to say, most of the men I know do not think like this man.
None of the women I know act like the ladies in this book.
His wife likes to scuba dive but he doesn't.
His wife dons gear and goes underwater.
He becomes nervous and threatens to kill everyone on the boat if anything happens to his wife.
His wife returns safely but she gives up diving because she can see it makes him nervous.
At some points in the book he emphasizes the need to be straightforward, but then there's a whole section where he's giving advice about how I you should twist your words in such a way as to be "gentle" so that a man doesn't feel less like a man.I honestly don't know where the advice is in the chapter about being an independent woman.
This book seems to be for women who are just not very intelligent, if he proclaims that those are the sorts of questions that "every woman" is dying to know the answers to.In any case, we should probably take the advice of a man whose current wife was his former mistress with a few grains of--or maybe a salt shaker's worth of-- salt.
التقييم 3.5 الكتاب "نسائى" يخاطب المرأه و يمكن إعتباره دليل لإنجاح العلاقات من خلال محاولة تقريب وجه
oh Mr. Harvey, I have some REAL issues with you.I will admit, some of the information in here might be considered insightful (the whole Profess, Provide and Protect thing was interesting), most of it I felt like was just excuses for men to act like jackasses. I'm so sick of hearing "Well, that's just how men are." Shut it. Seriously. And sometimes he contradicts himself, like the "hold out for 90 days" thing comes about 70 pages after "if you don't give him 'the cookie' he's gonna cheat on you." Make up your mind. And don't call it "the cookie."
Act like a lady think like a manعنوان جذاب جدا وفي قمة الذكاءالمذيع المشهور ستيف والذي وصل الى مصر ب
I've learned so much out of this book ! It was really amazing to discover the way men think. They're so simple & straightforward creatures.You should understand that their love isn't like yours! They love through professing, protecting & providing. They want in return your support, loyalty and the cookie.I recommend this book for every woman just to know how to handle stuff form the manhood's point of view.The writer's language is so simple & you can finish the book so fast but it'd
I've learned so much out of this book !
It was really amazing to discover the way men think. They're so simple & straightforward creatures.You should understand that their love isn't like yours! They love through professing, protecting & providing. They want in return your support, loyalty and the cookie.I recommend this book for every woman just to know how to handle stuff form the manhood's point of view.The writer's language is so simple & you can finish the book so fast but it'd be better to read it slowly to swallow every single information!:)
While I'm sure there are some truths to what he is saying, I didn't like that he talked in absolutes. As if there was no gray area. Plus, he pretty much blames the woman if (actually, he says it's more likely to be when) the guy cheats. It must be that she's not doing something right, etc. I stopped reading at that point.
Emily recommended this and I thought it was a fun and fast read with some good practical, old school advice. I didn't agree with every thing he said, but then, I'm a woman and he is advising me to think like a man.
Absolutely not!According to the author, men are very, very simple creatures, whereas women are irrational beings, feeling happy one moment, and going completely crazy the following minute.(...)Now, the part that made me want to throw the book against the wall (but I didn't, because I was reading on the iPad) was about cheating.Here is why men cheat according to Harvey:1) Because they can.2) Because it's the wife's fault.3) Because other women are willing to be with married men.But wait, don't get mad just yet.
Right?NO!I definitely don't recommend this book at all.I believe it was popular only because the author promoted it on his successful radio show.
مش حاسس انه شئ جدير بالأهميةكل القضية عنده "فين المشكلة ؟؟" وتفكيره مقتصر علي انه يجِد حل وخلاص- مش بيعرف يقرأ الأفكار..اطلبي الحاجة بصوت مسموع- الرجل قبل ما يدخل علاقة جد لازم يكون عنده أجابة ع الأسئلة دي"أنا مين ؟" "بشتغل ايه؟" "ايه ناتج عملي؟" لانهم بمثابة الهوية الذاتية بتاعته لو معندوش فكرة واضحة عن الإجابات دي يبقي غالبا مش هيقدر يبقي طرف جيد في أي علاقة- البنت بتقيم حب الرجل لها وفقا لاحتواءه لها واهتمامه بتفاصيلها ..- الرجل بيواجه مشكلة في التعبير عن مشاعره ولو بيحب هيبان من خلال 3 حاجات 1- هيمنحك لقب يقدمك بيه قدام الناس ..
This book was right on time.
Steve gives insight into the male mind and why guys do what they do.
He cuts to the chase and informs females what to do to if you want to be a keeper.
The book also allows you to realize the good traits that your guy has which helps you feel you're on the right track; other tidbits give you an idea of which areas of your relationship needs work.
Overall, very good relationship advice novel that will give women info that they already know, but also good tips that they may not have known.
تطرَّق الكاتب إلى العديد من الجوانب التي تخص طريقة تفكير الرجال وأسباب تصرفهم لتصرفات قد لا يكون للمرأة اتجاهها تفسير معقول أو صائب كعدم التجاوب في الحديث وسكوته وتغيره في بعض الأحيان. بشكل عام أحبب الكتاب واستفدت من العديد من النقاط، لكن كانت بعض الفصول والمعلومات التي لم أتطرق لها لاختلاف الديانة والثقافة لعدم أهميتها لشخصي. كتاب جميل.
