https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311164.Black_Sheep
Abby, looking for Stacy to try to take his measure and warn him off Fanny, instead runs into Stacy's uncle Miles, who has just returned to England after 20 years doing business in India.
In fact, there's more than one character here who's kind of a black sheep, or at least gray!Too much time (for my taste) was spent on the part of the plot that involved Miles' nefarious nephew trying to marry Abby's wealthy niece, but I have to say the wrap-up of that plotline was surprising and funny and very satisfying.Mild spoiler here: The first time I read this I thought the ending was abrupt and bizarre - Heyer sometimes cuts off her endings in odd ways - but this time I realized (view spoiler)[that the dialogue and ellipses right at the end are indicating that Miles is kissing Abby senseless (hide spoiler)].
My first reread on Goodreads of this wonderful book. Since it looks like there is about much chance of getting rereads as there is of me winning the Nobel Peace Prize, I'm having my first crack at the workaround.  Here is my 2014 review  Added Impressions From 2017 This is my favourite of Heyer's post 1960 novels. Every plot development makes sense. Every thread is woven into the story perfectly.All the characters are perfectly realised. Heyer's earlier novels often show a tacit approval of idle
My first reread on Goodreads of this wonderful book.
This is my favourite of Heyer's post 1960 novels.
Heyer's earlier novels often show a tacit approval of idle aristocrats & reckless gambling.
As Heyer matured, so did many of her heroes.
& here we have a(view spoiler)[ successful businessman.
(hide spoiler)]Also this book was first published in 1966, a time of great social change.
Although GH was deeply conservative this is when she produced her most non conformist hero!Fast paced and witty, I heartily recommend this book!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I had no idea of how many books she’d written on Regency England, about 60 I think, and I, who claim to love an excellent classic historical romance, have never read even one of her books.
And I almost took it back to the library unread, shameful, wicked girl!Miss Abigail Wendover is our 28-year-old heroine who lives in Bath with her much older, often thinks herself ill sister, Selina and their 18-year-old ward and niece Fanny.
Everyone who is acquainted with my reading preferences knows that I love Georgette Heyer, and thus far, there is not one of her books that I didn't enjoy. Black Sheep was no exception; it was hilariously funny, featured one of the best heroines and a truly irresistible hero, and had a very fun plot. I liked the fact that it was set in Bath and that there was not a lot of action, but the conversations were so witty and funny that it was not at all boring.  " She said despairingly:' I see that I m
Who would have thought that she would meet her match in debauched, scruffy Miles Calverleigh, an outcast just come back from India, who pays morning-calls in riding breeches and top-boots and has absolutely zero care for polite conventions and good manners?Yet, just like Abby, one cannot resist his silly comments or his careless ways, and we become more and more fascinated by him as the story unfolds.
Add in Abby's hypochondriac sister, her beautiful, will-strong and overly dramatic niece Fanny and her sweet, gentleman like secret admirer, Abby stuffy brother James and Miles's odious nephew Stacy, and you have a perfect recipe for a delicious and highly diverting Regency romp in Bath!A Warning to all Readers, however!
I read this when I was in junior high, it was either my first or second GH, I got Faro's Daughter at the same time and remember reading them non-stop over a weekend.
I am grateful beyond words to have discovered GH then, she got me through the angst of early adolescence, and much of life since.
My prescription was often to re-read an old favorite such as GH, no other meds required.
I fell asleep each night with a smile on my face and happy dreams while reading it.
I've read this book several times; it's one of my favorite Heyer titles.
The audio version, narrated by Barbara Leigh-Hunt, was good, but I had a few problems with it.
First of all, Ms. Leigh-Hunt is over seventy years old, and her voice sounds, well, .
old.
Too old, for the heroine, who is about thirty as I recall.
She does a very good job with Miles Calverleigh's voice, however, giving him just the right ironic tone.
That was distracting.If, like me, you adore this book, however, I recommend listening to it.
Miles Calverleigh is simply one of my favorite romance heroes anywhere.
What I especially like about Black Sheep, is the characters.
I like that Miles admitted that he had been no good twenty years ago, but that was twenty years ago and now he is older and wiser, he's completely competent to stay straight because he wants to.
Loved it even more this time around, I highly recommend this to everyone, even if regency isn't your thing, it isn't mine either but I couldn't care less when it comes to this book.A PG because of Miles past, he was obviously involved with tarts, drinking etc.
4.5I loved the characters.
There wasn't a single moment the two main characters annoyed me.
Heyer does first encounters really well.
These two are just refreshingly wonderful.
Now, I admit they may be that in contrast with a hotheaded seventeen-year-old, much older hypochondriac, gossipy acquaintance, stuffy brother and so on, but who cares.
I loved every single moment.
Miles Calverleigh's replies and reactions are hilarious and you can't really blame Abigail for falling for him.The resolution(s) are exceptional too.
Just when you think too much is stacked against these two, Miles Calverleigh does the unexpected.
My first Georgette Heyer.
Hilarious at times, especially during conversations between Abby and Miles.
Basically, Miss Abby comes back from a trip to London town to find her niece being assiduously courted by a young man who has stolen the heart of everyone, including sickly, crotchety Miss Selina, Abby's older sister.
And pardon Abby very much, but this young whippersnapper is entirely too good to be true.
He's not about to slip off with her young niece if she can help it...and she's even willing to take on eccentric Miles as an ally if she must.
I'm slightly embarrassed that I love these romping Regency romances so much! Georgette Heyer had Skills. I know this because 'hopeless romantic' is not a personality trait most people, including those who know me best, would ascribe to me. Yet here I am again thoroughly charmed and thrilled by her simple story of a love match.
I absolutely loved their outlandish discussions together and how often Abby was unable to suppress her giggles!- Abigail Wendover: I’m noticing a trend: I tend to love Georgette Heyer’s more mature heroines much more easily than her younger one.
In addition, as always with Georgette Heyer, I love spotting some subtle Jane Austen nods whether in characters, personalities, or text.
Oftentimes, I adore the secondary characters in Georgette Heyer’s novels, but in this story none of them engaged me as much as Miles and Abby.
Another thing I liked about the book is it is about mature individuals and the depiction is very interesting.The leads are well developed characters.
Mr. Miles Calverleigh is outrageous, extreme and unbelievable but at the same time he is a person with a great deal of kindness, though he seldom shows it.
He is supposed to be The Black Sheep of the family, but in the end it is he who saves the face for the family.Miss Abigail Wendover is one strong female character.
The lead couple is totally outrageous yet they are totally suited to each other.
I liked it and was one enjoyable read.
I really hate when these book blurbs are so very misleading...Abby Wendover, 28, is trying to keep her headstrong niece, Fanny, out of an impetuous match with the unworthy Stacy Caverleigh.
When a "Mr. Caverleigh" checks into the local hotel, she has words with him--before realizing he's actually Miles Caverleigh, the exiled black sheep of the Caverleigh family.
Will the young lovers put the kibosh on the old lovers plans for...loving?1.
MILES AND ABBY FOREVER.
He wants to kiss her!
CAN WE GET BACK TO MILES AND ABBY NOW?
3. ONLY ONE KISS.
4. I would have loved some resolution re: Oliver's big old crush.
I'm going to run out of Heyer romances to read in no time at this rate, but I can't quite bring myself to regret it.
I'm going to be talking like a Heyer novel, too, and while my girlfriend might regret it, it'd amuse me far too much to pass up the chance to annoy her.
-- and the main hero an older man: Heyer doesn't seem to have got stuck in any particular rut when it comes to her romances.
2018 Review - 4 starsOh, this one was fun! I forgot all about it. The relationship was quite sweet. While Abby is a fairly typical Older Heyer Heroine, Miles doesn't fit the Heyer Hero mold. He dresses poorly and has no manners. Of course, still in the manner of most of the book she's written but delightful nonetheless. 2011 Review - 2 stars
Abigail Wendower is quite determined to make her niece Fanny see how dangerous is her behaviour towards a man much older than she is.
While she tries to make Fanny understand that her beloved Stacy is not really in love with her but he clearly prefers her fortune, Abigail meets Stacy’s uncle, Miles Calverleigh, and thinks she has found an ally to keep Stacy away from her naive niece.
Abigail, or Abby as she prefers, is a wonderful character and a great heroine.
I know that she was seventeen and thought herself deeply in love with the right man, but I never like that kind of character.
8 October 2017Georgette Heyer fans: The Kindle edition of this wonderful book is now free to Kindle Unlimited members, and KU offers a free thirty-day trial. It's a touching and hilarious story of romance between a mature couple. Highly recommended!* * * In her review, the author Caroline Linden says, "Priceless, just for the scene where Abigail meets Miles for the first time." I agree; it's really a most clever scene. The entire book is a delight, up until the ending. Heyer is known for her abrupt endings, but this one wins the prize.
6-stars. My favorite along with Faro's Daughter. It is very funny. I read and reread the passage where the heroine met the hero and I laughed a lot. It is also the most romantic of all the Heyer books that I have read.
Loved the ending of this, but felt that the beginning rambled on a bit. Abigail and Miles were hilarious together, and her family was highly irritating in the Bennet family manner (this is a recommendation, in case you couldn't tell). I felt like she was cramming a lot of slang in, just to prove that she knew it. People would spout off several slang insults in a row, and then laugh about it, like they didn't normally talk that way, but were showing off. It was a bit odd. But I did love the ending so much!
Not going to add to everything that everyone else has said about this. It is quite simply FAB!!! Romantic, funny, full of fab characters. Abby and Miles are perfect for each other. Selina is unsurpassable, and Stacey is an excellent villain. I absolutely loved this. And now my only issue is what next - Bath Tangle?
After paying a call to old friends at their hotel, Abby learns that Mr. Calverleigh is also staying at the hotel and is determined to give him a piece of her mind.
When Abby discovers that the rude man is not Mr. Stacy Calverleigh, but his black sheep uncle, Mr. Miles Calverleigh, she is determined that he should control his nephew.
The more time Abby spends with Miles, the more she enjoys his witty manner and lack of social niceties.
Abby and Miles mock the conventions with their witty dialogue and sarcastic humor.
So delightful. Loved the Bath setting.
I love the humour of the book& the characterisation of Selina - also flawed & a hypochondriac, but basically a good person.I don't know if the formidable Heyer ever allowed anyone to proofread or edit her books.
(it's been a while since I read Jane Aitken Hodge's excellent biography)If she didn't, this book may have been a good one to make an exception for.
(hide spoiler)] Tiny flaws but they do take you out of the moment.Other reviewers feel the book ends abruptly, but (view spoiler)[ the masterful :) Miles has already indicated what the future holds & I always spend a pleasant half hour after reading this book imagining it.
Okay, so I would marry Miles Caverleigh, and so would many other women I know, so the major relationships conflict of the book isn't particularly suspenseful,even with all the complications Heyer tries to throw at it.
But still, I liked the relationship between Abby Wendover and Miles.
I thought it was one of the more realistically done ones Heyer's depicted, as she let their relationship and their feelings for each other naturally develop and change until you could very well believe they actually loved each other.
Good as ever!
Fun, typical Heyer comfort read. :)
As in most of her books, the reader almost immediately meets a bewildering plethora of characters - I had to go back and reread bits to keep them straight - but once you learn who's who, the story never pauses.Abby returns from visiting her married sisters to learn that seventeen year old Fanny has been spending a great deal of time with Stacy Calverleigh, a not-so-young man who has an unfortunate reputation as a fortune hunter.
The scene where Abby meets Miles, thinking he is Stacy, is a wonderful bit of farce.Miles is the self-confessed black sheep of the Calverleighs, but is totally unconcerned about society's opinion.
This is a charming Regency romance and it was just what I needed after reading several depressing books.
Georgette Heyer was known for meticulously researching the historical details of Jane Austen's England, and the reader gets immersed into that period.Black Sheep reminded me a bit of Persuasion, because it was set in Bath and it involved a 28-year-old woman, which was almost a spinster in those days.
What happens next will be of little surprise to anyone who has read a Regency romance.I am quite contented to know that Georgette Heyer wrote more than 50 books, and I've only read a handful of them.
My 29th Georgette HeyerMiss Abigail Wendover's 17-year old niece Fanny is trying to marry Mr Miles Caverleigh's nephew, Stacy, a fortune-hunter so it's up to them to stop such nonsense.
One problem: Miles is estranged from his nephew and is reluctant to interfere.
It's nice to see a romance where the women are well off, never in financial peril and are happily not constrained to marry.
It's the men that need to work for their keep.
Our heroine is witty, sensible twenty something, independent woman.The banter between Abby and Miles is a thing to behold, rivaling even the banter from Venetia or Bath Tangle.
This book takes a standard romance plot and turns it upside down by introducing Miles Calverleigh, a hero who cares nothing for his family or the conventions of the day.
When Abigail Wendover meets Miles, she's surprised to find a deeper attraction than she wants to admit.
Her lovely niece Fanny has fallen in love with a fortune hunter.
Who happens to be Miles' nephew.This is one of the best of the light and frothy Heyer novels.
The banter is witty, the attraction solid, and the frustration with how to stop Fanny's obduracy is real.
