https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122756.My_Brother_Sam_Is_Dead
This book is about a guy who's brother, Sam, is dead.
Another title for this book could very be something along the lines of "My Brother Sam is in the Army and he's not Coming Home Until He Dies." That just about sums the book up.
It's really about a guy (who's name I can't remember) who's brother goes off to fight in the army.
If you're into the Revolotionary War, try something else, like, a history book or something.
It's probably more interesting, doesn't need a plot, historically accurate, and has some pictures of what the war was like.
This is apparently an often-banned YA book.
Since it was written in 1975, it has appeared on many annual banned-book lists.
Another reason given was 'extreme violence' - the Revolutionary War was going on, and descriptions were given of what had been seen in battle, including a beheading during a fight between British soldiers and armed Patriot sympathizers.
This book is the best.
I like the book but it gave the end a way from the title
I have never liked historical, but when we read this book for English class, I was so scarred I was afraid to even touch another book of the same genre.To start off with, Tim, the main character, is a tiresome boy who looks to his obviously flawed brother like he hung the sun.
I would accuse Tim of dating Sam, but apparently they are exes seeing as Sam ran away from home to join the army fighting against what his family belives in (what a way to show loyalty to your family, Sam).Then, nothing happens in the book for a long time.
I had been told by authoritative sources that this was an excellent book to add to our collection of American historical fiction.
Their is one young lady in particular that had a mouth and manners that would have been regarded as tremendously rude and uncouth in a young lady at that time.
(I think would be equally so in today's world but unfortunately more common.) This book has the distinction of representing the Loyalist point of view during the American Revolutionary War, but I have found several others written for a younger audience that are much better in my opinion.
The characters in the story, Sam, his brother Tim, his mother and father, and his girlfriend Betsy, would seem to be the members of any family living in America at the time of the American Revolution.
By providing images of real battles and places you get a better understanding of how difficult life must have been during that time in America.I would suggest this book to everyone.
It is also a good read for anyone who doesn’t normally like history because you can learn a lot about the American Revolution by living it with Sam. Although it is fiction, the writer has used real battles and real places in history to tell the story which make it interesting and educational at the same time.
boring....
I love anti-war books.Basic plot: Tim, the narrator, is a preteen boy who idolizes his brother.
But when Sam defies his father and leaves Yale to fight in the American Revolution, Tim is torn between loyalties.
Tim's father is captured by "cow-boys" (men who steal cattle for the Patriots/Rebels) but Tim manages to get home to his mother.
Toward the end of the novel, Sam is executed by his commander for allegedly stealing cattle, when in reality he was trying to save his family's cattle from other soldiers.
I did not like this book, I thought it was boring, tasteless and had no high or low points through out.
So maybe if I read it by myself i would like it, but i feel I would never take this book of a library shelf.
The book and its title is so blunt there is no where to go in the story.
The title itself tells you the climax which is usually supposed to be an unknown point and very entertaining.
Overall it was a decent book, but I did not like the style or the plot.
This was such a good yet heartbreaking story about a family living through the Revolutionary War. I greatly enjoyed reading a book that showed that there were no good or bad sides as there are both no matter which side you are on.
So much of this book has truth to it which is heartbreaking to know but helped me visualize the events and life during the time of war.
I'm so glad that I had to read this book during school as it was one of the best books I read during that time.
this is one book that i enjoed that is historical fiction.
The book "My Brother Sam Is Dead" was a very reasonable book over the American Revolution.
I believe the author," James Lincoln " could have used a better title, I think the title tells you a little to much about the story.
It tells the reader that a man or brother named Sam dies.
Well in the book it does tell you about Sam and his family, but I believe that the author could have gave us a little more about Tim's personal feelings.
This story is told in Tims piont of view ,but it does not tells us about what Tim's thinking, or doing.
Historical fiction is not my favorite.
1.5 starsWhy you should not read this book:1.
Underlying innuendos of American Revolution being a pointless war3.
narrator has unpleasant voice and speaks slooowly with looong pauses between events.Not totally a lame book as it does give some important insights regarding the resulting devastations that war brings to communities and families.
However an implication easily drawn from the story is that the American Revolution was a sad and unnecessary event.
Near the end of the book the family doesn't really care who wins .
The story has quite vivid descriptions of the events, the main character Tim, how war affects the people at the time.
While some descriptions may be on the violent side, and the word choice is very mature at times, the story is well written and gets the point across.
I feel that the language and descriptions of this book are fitting for the story, and it helps tell the truth.
Tim, who has been living at the time of the war, is conflicted in his thoughts of what to believe about the conflict.
My Brother Sam is a story during the American Revolution.
It is story that brings to life the history of America.
but one day I couldn't fall asleep because my shield laney wasn't there so I stayed up and the book sucked me in to the story line I felt like I was walking though history with the main characters.
so in the end it was a very good book that ended in tragedy.
one of the main parts of the book that i actually liked was when they were headed to sell the cattle and were stopped by the cowboys.
the next part that i liked was when he went looking for his father and realized that he'd have to go all the way home by himself and hope that he doesnt get stopped by anymore cowboys.
finally , i liked the part where the cowboys stopped him again on his way home , and he got them to leave him alone even though he's just a kid.
The book "My Brother Sam is Dead" is a historical fiction set in the time of the American Revolution.
This book leads you through the struggles and hardships Tim and his family faced.
This book was very beneficial to me because it not only helps you understand how life was like at that time, but it also gives you another perspective of how people felt.
In other words, this book shows you the other's opinions at the time(it gives more relatable information than a textbook).
The story also talks about the conditions the American soldiers or "Patriots" went through while they served for their country.
This book was easy to follow.
Why name it My Brother Sam is Dead when he only dies at the end of the book?
People struggled with the way it caused all the prices to go up.
Besides the title giving it away right as the tension was creating, the book was a good book.
I believe this book would also be a good book for a class if you were strugling or even needed it for a prodject.
It gives you an inside look on how it really affected people.
It will change the way you look at how the war really was.
Okay, I have to admit my teacher forced me to read this book and I don't really like historical books , but I read a couple parts and they were very alive to me like I could actually see it happening.
I think people who really like the american revolution should consider reading then book!
The most intersting part to me was when they actually killed Sam I know that sounds bad but it was really realistic to me like i could see it happening while I was reading the book.
People who who like the American Revolution or history books in general should check out this book!
I remember reading this a LONG time ago. In class. I probably zoned out half the time...
This book is sad. You think things will get better for Tim but they never do. This book takes back in the revolutionary war and shows you what it was like back in the 1770s. Even though this war took back a long time ago it was one of the most bloodiest wars and had a lot of deaths. People were getting hanged, kept in prison ships to rot or get set on fire. This book was really good even though it was sad and I highly suggest you read it.

Sam's return to town and news of their father's fate find their way home eventually, but Tim is still just as confused as ever about what he really believes is the right direction for his country.
My Brother Sam Is Dead takes a whole new angle on the American Revolution as we know it.
There is some sense of the horrors of war given in the book, but the story is driven mostly by the family drama of Tim and his parents not knowing where Sam is at any time, of constantly being unsure whether he's even alive or dead.
The war in which this takes place is the Revolutionary War, but I doubt that even that matter much beyond offering a setting in which the story can take place, as the internal battles are ones still happening within every person today in the same situation.From the beginning, lines blur between Tory and Patriot, mainly because the narrator, Tim, doesn't know the difference between them.
The story also is part bildungsroman, as Tim is forced to take the places of his father and brother until the war is over (which happens after Sam is killed for an act he never committed).
Ever since I had got the wagon home by myself I hadn't felt like a boy anymore.
Or I'd eat breakfast slowly so I could stall off going to work."But that morning after the terrible trip home, right from the first moment we got finished saying grace, I began planning the things I had to do - which things had to be done first and what was the best way to get them done.
...."We discussed it all, and about half way through breakfast I began to realize that I had changed.
The fact this book won an award makes me question and ridicule the English literary groups out there.So this book is about a guy named Tim Meeker and ,obviously according to the least creative title in the history of the books I have ever read, his brother Sam who eventually dies.
Big mistake, seeing how Sam was eventually framed into being killed by the Americans.
Unless you're a big fan of the American Revolution, every other detail that has not been mentioned in this review, and is in the book is completely tedious.
It takes place in Connecticut during the Revolutionary War when the Patriots were fighting the British.
Tim has an older brother named Sam who decides to join the Patriots to help fight off the British.
He became very upset to hear that Sam wanted to join the Patriots and fight against his homeland.
I thought that the author did a very good job in writing the book.
It was a very easy read for me but it was still a very good book.
Overall I thought that this book was good and would probably give it a 4.

