https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148981.The_Silent_Speaker
A very good Nero Wolfe, involving WW II era price controls, bureaucratic double-dealing and cutting edge technology--the dictaphone cylinder, that is.
Archie Goodwin literally forces Nero Wolfe to take a case as the bank account of famous detective is practically empty (so, what else is new?).
By using some very unconventional methods Nero Wolfe makes NIA hire him to investigate the murder.
At one point Nero Wolfe has to simulate a mental breakdown.
I also found it interesting that Rex Stout, while having conservative political views is not shy about criticizing what we now call Big Business represented by NIA in the book; in fact at times his depiction of them looks purely satirical.
They really understood "politically conservative" term differently in the post-war US.

Classic Rex Stout. The dialogue is scintillating and in this one Archie may have met his female match. Part of its charm today is the anachronistic flavor with 3-cent stamps, dime phone calls from real phone booths and the battle between wartime price regulators and industry shills. Some of the dialogue is LOL funny. If you haven’t read any Nero Wolfe I urge you to do so. For audiobook fans, my favorite reader is Michael Pritchard who perfectly captures Archie’s sardonic wit.
This 11th Nero Wolfe book has Wolfe at his best (though remarkably little mention of food!).
Now that WWII is over, Stout is back to full-length novels. Archie and Wolfe have to trick someone (anyone) into becoming clients to solve a murder that's about a week old. Near the end, Wolfe pretends to be crazy in order to keep away the cops, who are counting on him to solve the murders.
One of the best Nero Wolfe mysteries I've read.
Stout creates one of his very best female characters in Phoebe Gunther.
They'll find the mark!" Dr. Vollmer to Archie: "Who wrote this script for him?" Wolfe: "What's the matter with it?"One of the most memorable Stout quotes addresses the title of the book.
For example, 'dead men tell no tales.' Mr. Boone is dead.
Mr. Boone is silent.
But he speaks."PS This series of Nero Wolfe mysteries include introductions to each novel by a contemporary mystery writer.
One can see some of Easy Rawlings traits in Mosely's lifelong admiration and affection for the character of Archie Goodwin.
This was my first Nero Wolfe book.
As Wolfe signed them he folded and inserted them, and even sealed the envelopes.
Sometimes he has bursts of feverish energy that are uncontrollable." "The scientific name for the disease you've got is acute malignant optimism." At least a couple of times per chapter I was chuckling at the language.Both Wolfe and Archie are real characters and it was such fun to read about their quirks and see the relationship between the two.I still don't think Rex Stout is great literature, but for a bit of entertainment, you can't go wrong with Nero Wolfe.
3.5 stars. Love this series, but this one wasn't my favorite.New York, 1944
Always entertaining, this Nero Wolfe mystery adds in just enough politics and corruption to be relevant today.
Wolfe's motivation for solving the murder at the dinner is exponentially amplified when this extraordinary woman is murdered on his premises.In the clash of the NIA and BPR, with weight of the FBI added, Wolfe's usual police foe Inspector Cramer is sacked, ironically for obsessing on the right track.
He sits at his desk and sets Archie, Fritz and his gardener, Theodore to do the search in the right place.
This is one of my favorite Rex Stouts and a reasonably good place to start with the series -- one of the best of the first 15 books, and it features most of the canon's main and supporting characters.
Best of all, the relationships in this book are great.
This series' charm and lasting appeal comes from the characters and the relationships between them, and this book has great interactions between Archie and Wolfe, Wolfe and Cramer, Wolfe and his client, and Archie and pretty much the whole group of suspects and one-book characters.Added bonus: the mystery is built upon the dictaphone.
So, on top of a fun read, this book comes with a bonus history of technology lesson.
This was one of my favorite Nero Wolfe mysteries so far, and I didn't know it until it was nearly the end.
Furthermore, in the very end, Archie just bats it out of the park as he really stands up for himself and puts Wolfe in his place.
Lots of people have said this and I have to agree: you don't read a Nero Wolfe mystery for the whodunit (though they do tend to keep me guessing).
You read them to enjoy once more being invited in to that old 35th St. brownstone, a passenger in Archie's car, or to observe from a yellow leather chair in Wolfe's office.
This has a veneer of a post war issue oriented story over a solid detective mystery. The conflict between private industrial concerns and government regulators could have been written yesterday. That said, who killed Cheney Boone? This book has all the elements of a classic Wolfe mystery. Which to mean that they may lack flash bang but slowly work their way to a satisfying conclusion. This book also shows Inspector Cramer at his best as he too looks about desperately for the last words of the Silent Speaker.
The plots are entertaining, the characters are enjoyable, and I just can't get enough of Rex Stout's amazing wit in the form of Archie Goodwin.
Reading one of these books always takes me a bit longer than usual because I often go back to re-read and chortle over phrases, paragraphs, and pages of narrative.
I read passages out loud to my family just to share the wonderful turns of phrase and humorous imagery.
I have to admit that I found the book at least as confusing as the episode, but then I don't understand anything financial and the plot in this one was overly complex for me.
I love Phoebe Gunther.
She's amazing - one of my favorite female characters in the Wolfe books, definitely.
I also like the backdrop of the two warring factions, which is a dynamic Stout often does well, but never more so than here.And who could forget the high drama of Wolfe's "breakdown", or him rescuing Cramer from Purgatory (or, for that matter, Cramer having been taken off the case in large part because he was simpático with Wolfe's vision of it - aka the obsession with the cylinder)?
The murder of a keynote speaker highlights the ongoing feud between a big business consortium and a government agency.
Wolfe steps in to try and collect a fee.I was some pages into this one before I invested in the story.
I'm not sure if I was distracted, or if there is too much running around early on, or if the large number of characters made the story a little hard to follow.
In any case, it gets really good at some point and continues to be exciting until the end.
Some things you may look forward to: Nero steps out, Nero hits someone, and Nero goes crazy!
I loved this book. I had been craving another chance to spend time with Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin (the detective and his assistant). I have read quite a few of the Nero Wolfe mysteries, and I always enjoy them. This one is set in New York, at Nero Wolfe's brownstone, a few years after World War Two. Like all the Nero Wolfe books, there are well-drawn, believable, colorful characters and complexities in the plot. There is also the daily routine and meals within Nero Wolfe's household, which makes each book like a visit to a familiar and eccentric friend.
Corporate Murders PrevailHow I love this series! Once again Red Stout, via Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin, delivers a first class, fascinating mystery that I literally could not put down. This time, the dynamic duo solve two murders and nearly upend the NYPD in the process. The intricate plotting combined with edge-of-your-seat scenes and witty dialogue results in another first class read, not to be missed by any true mystery fan!
Another Rex Stout novel that appears to have disappeared from my goodreads shelves sometime in the past ten years or so. I haven't read this one as often as some of the others because it's often so fresh in my head from re-watching the Nero Wolfe tv series that ran on A&E. The series is great, and they do this book well, but there's a lot of extra detail they don't have room for even with a double episode. It was great to revisit that.
Given the number of people who've recommended the Nero Wolfe books over the years, maybe I went into this one (my first) with too high expectations. I had to push the 3-star rating, just as I had to push to keep reading this. It was boring. And dated, as well, especially regarding the female characters and their treatment. I won't be going back for more.
This was a particularly good Nero Wolfe book- my favorite of five that i have read so far. It had the perfect combination on bread crumbs and twists, suspense and mystery, character and humanity. Well worth a read!!!!
A very good Wolfe novel, this one adds a few twists to the usual formula. As usual, the point of a Wolfe novel is not to figure out the killer but to spend time in the company of Wolfe and Archie and this fits the bill well. The wrinkles of this one include Cramer being temporarily removed from command and Wolfe being forced to go to the police station for questioning. Both, nice touches to and enjoyable book in the series.
1946... 2018......the reading is just as sweet. I've found myself rediscovering the Nero Wolfe cannon, after many years. As such, I find my old man's mind a sort of blessing, insofar as so much of it reads as if new.
Speaking for the deadAnother enjoyable read by Rex Stout. The story is interesting, the characters well rounded out. And who would want our favorite Sargent to be bushwhacked by a horrible person like Ash?.
These books are growing on me.
There are better things to read. The story is very dated and the quality of writing is not good enough to keep it relevant. The murder mystery revolves around a missing dictating cylinder.
My only real critique is that this drags a fair bit in the middle.
One of the best Wolfe novels.
One of my favorites so far. Not only because Wolfe is, as usual, extremely clever, but also because in this one, so is Archie Goodwin. Great fun.
