https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/667483.The_Balcony
Would it perturb you to see things as they are? To gaze at the world tranquilly and accept responsibility for your gaze, whatever it might see?I found this less Brecht and more Passolini. Revolution became chic at some point. This is about assuming roles in tumultuous times. I found the endearing aspect to be the role of the siren or chanteuse. The pimp has a grin, never a smileMuch as Steven Godin asserted on GR today I think the experience would have been enhanced by viewing this staged. I don't feel that when I read Brecht or Beckett.
Genet cleverly connects the outside world with the "inside" reality when he has the madame state "One can hear all that's going on in the street.
Which means that from the street one can hear what's going on in the house." The men inside, exacting their devilish fantasies, are in some cases the actual power figures of the city.
This play is very much postmodern, and in that sense it reminded me a lot of Pynchon's Gravity's Rainbow in terms of style and themes.
In terms of style, Genet (with this play in particular) has also often been compared to Bertolt Brecht.
In all, stylistically what Genet was doing here had been done before and thematically there was also a precedent, and other artists have since dealt with similar style and themes more successfully.
And my opinions of that work will likely determine whether or not I'd be interested in reading any more Genet thereafter.
Okurken bile yoruldum ki oynaması ne zor olur kim bilir?Üstelik seyirciye neredeyse hiç bişey vermiyor.
Seyirci bi zahmet düşünecek, kafa yoracak, üzerinde tartışmalar yapacak ve bir şeyler anlayıp bir yerlere gelecek.
Sarayı yıkmaya başlamışlar bile.
Enteresan bir ironidir ki kraliçe bir kerhane işletiyor.
Yazar bu şekilde herkesi tek tek sorguluyor ve gerçek yüzlerini gözlerimizin önüne seriyor adeta.
Yazar kitabın başına bir iki sayfalık bir not düşmüş.
Bu oyunu böyle oynayın manasında.
Sağda solda görüyorum oyunda ufak tefek değişiklikler yapıp oyunu bol eden yönetmenler var.
Oyunu anladığım kadarıyla adam haklı.
Ya da adam öyle buyurgan bir şekilde tarif etmiş ki korktum.
Jean Genet's controversial play The Balcony takes place within a "house of illusions" where men dress up as bishops, generals, judges, and even the indigent to play out bizarre sexual fantasies while a revolution takes place throughout the surrounding city.
Parallels are drawn between sex and revolution and the illusions of both common and powerful men.
(Parallels are probably drawn between sex and just about everything else here, really.)The most noticeable aspect of the play is the ubiquity of performance.
Not only do the men who come to the brothel pretend to be in positions of power, it seems that according to Genet, the actual people in power are pretending every bit as much.
"بالکن" نمایشنامه ایست که در بحبوحه انقلاب و جنگ جهانی دوم در فرانسه ی ۱۹۵۰ و تحت اشغال نازی ها روایت می شود ازآنجایی که ژنه علاقه زیادی به سیاست و مسائل جنسی داشت مضمون اکثر کتاب هایش سیاسی،انقلابی و جنسی ست.
کتاب هم رویکرد سیاسی دارد هم فلسفی سیاسی به لحاظ وجود انتقادی از اوضاع نابسامان جامعه که بی شباهت به اوضاع کنونی ما نیست و فلسفی از جهت مغاک بین واقعیت و توهم به بیان ساده تر حقیقت درونی و نقاب بیرونی.
نمایشنامه کاملا کنایه آمیز افول قوانین خودساخته بشر مِن جمله دین رو نشون می دهجایی که پل
"بالکن" نمایشنامه ایست که در بحبوحه انقلاب و جنگ جهانی دوم در فرانسه ی ۱۹۵۰ و تحت اشغال نازی ها روایت می شود ازآنجایی که ژنه علاقه زیادی به سیاست و مسائل جنسی داشت مضمون اکثر کتاب هایش سیاسی،انقلابی و جنسی ست.
دراصل ژنه با نشان دادن تحولات جامعه عصر خود به شکل واقع گرایانه با تمام سانسورها و موانع چاپ اثر به گمانم امیدوارانه درصدد ایجاد تغییریست که شاید انقلاب آن را ایجاد کند.
The action of this play takes place inside a brothel while a revolution goes on outside.
The police chief in the course of the play watches clients dress as a judge, a bishop and a general.
Finally, the insurrection is crushed and the leader of the rebels enters the brothel asking to dress up as a police chief.
Police states are becoming the norm and so it is time that our sexual fantasies adapt.
Unfortunately,the plot has no more complexity than is in my summary and the characters amongst the most superficials you will ever see.This play is a work of its time.
Mind-blowing. Everyone should at least be aware of what Genet accomplished here. He was way ahead of his time.

Metnin altında yatan düşünce ve seyirciye veriliş biçimi muazzam. Buna karşılık diyaloglar ve karakterler fevkalade sıkıcı. Bir oyun metinini bir oturuşta bitiremediğim neredeyse hiç olmamıştır. Bu oyunu bitirebilmemse neredeyse bir hafta aldı. Varın gerisini siz düşünün. Bu anlamda çok iyi ve çok kötü hususların buluştuğu bir oyun oldu gözümde. Fevkalade yaratıcı ve sıradışı, okunmaya değer bir oyun olduğunu da belirtmeden geçmeyeyim.
by Bernard Frechtman) (Grove Press 1966)Considered by many to be Genet's dramatic masterwork, the play features his trademark sleight-of-hand, where characters transform into other characters: a “house of pleasure” caters to the theatrically-inspired whims of its customers while the city is under siege by rebel forces.
Genet claimed to be inspired to write Le Balcon because of events in Franco’s Spain, though he may also have been indebted to passages in Marcel Proust's final novel, Le Temps retrouvé.
This translation is based on Genet's more-politicised, revised version of the play and feels quite tedious in parts.
Jean Genet's "The Balcony" addresses the desire and lust for power, fame, and celebrity through the guise of a brothel.
Those who wish to rebel against the ruling power need not fight against the celebrities but the ones behind it all, all the while be cautious not to turn into the one thing they think they are fighting against.
The idolizing of public figures rings true in today's culture where celebrity rules all.
Genet's work remains incredibly relevant to today's audience - he mocks the love affair with fame and points out just how fake all of our lives are if we only dared to look.

I lost count of how many times I have read this play, furthermore I have watched it being rehearsed over and over and performed three times, still I am quite sure I do not understand what is going on.
I can't tell reality from fantasy, I don't understand who has power and who's faking, or even if anyone actually has power or is faking.
Every time I read it, there's something new to it, but I feel like I haven't read it enough times, it still puzzles me, I can't think straight.
This play is rich for many reasons, but the biggest one for me is how challenging it is to process it.
هي مسرحية تجرى في مكان محدد وهو الماخور، وتحاكي ما يحدث أثناء الثورة الفرنسية من التناقضات التى تجرى في كواليس غامضة في أنظمة مليئة بالدسائس والمؤامرات، وما هي الوسائل التى تحاك لتصفية ثورة مثل هذه. وأهم من تدور حولهم المسرحية هما : الأسقف، القاضي وقائد الشرطة الذين ظل ملازهم وهم السلطة وإقتناعهم انهم في مأمن من الثورة ورجالها ولا يقدر أحد على المساس بهم أو التقليل من شأنهم، ومع الوقت ينكشف الستار عن حقيقتهم وطريقة تفكيرهم...
The first half was fantastic in its depictions of kink & comedy, politics & philosophy, but the second half, especially the long scenes 7 & 9 (briefly interrupted by the half-page scene 8) were a bit of a slog and I found myself mostly lost in the dialogue. I'm not unhappy to have read it, but I might get more enjoyment out of it after reading about it some more.
Very clever and Brechtian experimental theater.THE BISHOP: No one has power. But you want us to have power over the people. In order for us to have power over them, you must first recognize that we have power over you.[2.5/5.0 stars].
I think if read in the original French and at the time of the German occupation of Paris - this would likely have been incredibly moving if not shocking. Reading it today in English, some of the more scandalous parts (at the time) seem relatively tame in our modern times.
very interesting storyline (a revolution is taking place outside of a brothel, which is where the play is set). I feel as though there's some big allegory I'm not quite getting haha. But overall, it was an enjoyable read and I would like to see this acted out one day!
Reading this was wasteful. Had to finish it by forcing myself. It was dreadful. I can't appreciate its relation to mimicry or political power. It has no substantial effect whatsoever..
Best lines about popular rebellion ever written. The dialogue is as masterful as Shakespeare.
Rounding up to 3.5. The book ends abruptly. And the center is missing.
But this kind of worked in the play's favor since it's about the dissolution of reality and falsehood.
What is more true: the illusion or the reality?
In the case of this play, illusion is more powerful than the people who play into them.
Free will does not exist in this play.
I'm sad the revolution could not bring these characters into a better, more true existence: one free of the power imposed over their lives and actions particularly by these three roles.
I am very excited to read more of Sexual Politics by Kate Millet to see what she can pull out of this play.
Together with The Maids, The Balcony is one of Gene's masterpiecesمحل وقوع واقعه، شهری ست نامعلوم، که در آتش انقلاب می سوزد و انقلابیون خشمگین خیابان ها را انباشته اند.
واقعه اما درون صومعه ای (دیری، کلیسایی) نمادی از قدرت در جهانی بزرگ تر، اتفاق می افتد، فضایی بسته و مقدس، در قلب شهری انقلاب زده و آلوده.
بالکن توسط کارگردانان بزرگ تیاتر اروپا، نظیر "پیتر بروک" و "اروین پیسکاتور" و...
بارها بر صحنه های تیاتر اروپا اجرا شده است.
لوسین گلدمن (جامعه شناس) نمایش نامه را یک اثر بزرگ برشتی در تیاتر فرانسه خوانده و مارتین اسلین آن را شاهکار عصر ما لقب داده است.
Genet credo sia un autore che difficilmente può essere colto nella totalità delle sue mille sfumature ad una prima lettura.
Come spesso accade per i testi teatrali, è una rilettura costante quello che permette di cogliere mille aspetti di una vicenda che non si limita a restare letteratura ma che è destinata ad essere vista su di un palcoscenico.
Genet ha una visività violentissima, con tagli di scene molto forti e personaggi-archetipi che sfidano la morale.
La bellezza incontrastata dei personaggi di Genet spicca in uno scenario underground e grottesco, ai limiti dell'assurdo.
I loved reading this and now I'm itching to see it performed.
The Brothel setting is perfect for his style, and there are many scenes that made me cringe, while others had me scratching my head and thinking "what the hell?" I've seen that there's a film version by Joseph Strick, who seems to have peppered his career by adapting this and similar "difficult" works like Ulysses and Tropic of Cancer.
From what I've read it's not that great, but I really want to see this performed so I may have to put up with a cheapened version until a revival comes to town.
Though long winded, this play is infamous for a reason.
Provocative and thought provoking, Jean Genet makes you sit back and wonder where appearances and "parts we play" in life come to fruition.
ITs not just "The balcony" where these characters live and breathe but in our own lives as we also put on appearances.
Though the subject matter is provoking I still couldn't catch a vision for it.
A great play is marked by my being able to envision it happening on stage as I read...and this one, for whatever reason, lacked that special something.
j'aime quand une œuvre questionne son propre genre. un bordel/théâtre, des personnages/ acteurs qui jouent un rôle, ces femmes (des prostituées) qui mettent en scène des scénarios érotiques, fantasmes masculins pervers et/ou loufoques, pour permettre aux hommes de se réaliser sur un mode de toute-puissance, d'être quelqu'un d'autre, comme un exutoire. la fin d'un monde. la création de millier d'autres. un théâtre coloré, délicieux de petites trouvailles, exubérant, désinvolte, excentrique. violence ( + sadomasochisme). questionne le vrai et le faux, l'illusion et la représentation, l'image, le reflet.
Genet, ever the expert observor of social relations as determined by power roles, takes a look at them here in the context of a brothel where people can enact their sexual fantasies by donning the garb of a bishop or a general, etc.
Like everything Genet ever wrote, this is great.
Maybe I hold back from giving it a 5 star rating just so I can contrast it to other Genet bks that I like even more, maybe b/c I'm not such an enthusiast for plays - preferring more radical forms: such as guerrilla actions.
Exquisite stuff! Genet's masterwork of myth and perversion is among the very best of the theatre of the Absurd. So entertaining and thought-provoking, intellectually stimulating and still quite shocking, The Balcony kicks some major existential butt. A character in it, Irma, is now the matriarch of my Absurdity. She was a masterfully crafted character and belongs with her male counterpart, Harold Pinter's Lenny from The Homecoming, as my philosophical King and Queen.
