https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31698.Dante
Actually, however, Erich Auerbach cracked the conundrum many years ago, right in the middle of the robust, high-coloured good health of the Scientific Age (ie before all our supposedly neutral and quasi-divine scientific knowledge had produced nuclear weapons) and he set forth in this book, which he wrote out of a unique understanding and an intimate love of Dante's work, the ultimate defense of literature and the truth of literature.
I admire Auerbach's "Mimesis" more than any other work of literary criticism that comes to mind.
A wonderful supplement to Barbara Reynold's biography of Dante.-----I just finished Auerbach's book, which is a triumph of literary criticism.
Auerback offers a coherent, thoroughly considered description of Dante's perspective on the world and his experience, and Auerbach shows convincingly how that perspective (in addition to poetic genius) enabled the production of the Divine Comedy.
No doubt there are many other critics who offer other/different views on the contents of Dante's mind, but I expect that only a very few can express their views so pithily and convinvingly as Auerbach.
Mimesis was, I thought, just a stunning work of criticism, and its chapter on The Divine Comedy did more to illuminate the entire work through the examination of one section of one canto than did several readings (without benefit of any study guide) of the entire Inferno--in fact, I'd nearly given up on ever really being able to penetrate Dante's work at all; it was Mimesis that gave me the idea that I didn't have to abandon all hope.
The title of the book is actually pretty clear on that--but when I read 'Dante', the only thing I think of is the Comedy, and thus my confusion.
That said, it'd be a great book for anyone who's interested in Dante, but hasn't read him, and I'm probably being overly harsh on chapter 2.
Yay!) and you have the general historical argument of the book.I'm harsh on chapter 2 because it's about Dante's forebears and his early poetry, which is essentially coterie work.
Auerbach did much better in 'Mimesis.' That leaves the great bits, chapter 3 and the conclusion, summed up I think in Auerbach's claim that Dante "transforms Being [i.e., scholastic philosophy and Christian theology] into experience." I don't so much recommend that you read chapter three of this book, as demand that you do so immediately.
Amazing. And very difficult. Auerbach had sensitivities and insights that you find nowhere else--and he managed (later) to combine them into a complete theory of western literature. This is an early work of his (1929), but it's the best thing I've read so far in helping me try to formulate in my own mind what makes Dante unique, and an author I keep coming back to, even if only in translation.
After the war he turned his intention to a study of Dante, a poet once conceived of as an intracably religious writer.
Auerbach's lucid study of the Vita Nuova and Commedia redeem Dante for the modern world, showing through a close textual exegesis of the poems that Dante was ferociously political poet, a voice of the secular world, a grandfather of the modern sensibility.
In a small room in Istanbul he began to compose the greatest volume of literary criticism of the 20th century, Mimesis, a study of narrative strategies beginning with the Homeric poems through Dante and Cervantes to Flaubert and Joyce.
I haven't nodded so vigorously and so often at a book in a long time!
Now I know why I have trouble explaining why I like Dante so much; it took Erich Auerbach about 150 pages to say what I try to sum up in 2 minutes.
What's more, they are 150 lucid pages.
He could be a little effusive at times, but I'll leave it to somebody else to fault him for that.
It was exciting to read what I have often wanted to say but couldn't verbalize.
Also, this was the most readable translation I've read in a while.
Throughout the book, Auerbach especially stresses his central thesis that Dante's work surpasses the mimetic art of previous authors (from the Classical period through the Middle Ages) in his "testimony to the reality that is poetry, to the modern European form of artistic mimesis which stresses the actuality of events" (174); essentially, Auerbach argues that Dante's mimesis captures the concept of realism previously unattained in the mimetic art of literature.
This, of course, is essential for the reality that Dante portrays: the conception of human choices on this material plane carrying over as one's final characteristic destiny in the afterlifeIn Auerbach's chapter on "The Presentation" of the Dante's Comedy, he specifically traces the realism that Dante creates through the journey, in characters, setting, images, and psychology within the work.
I believe it was Nadia Boulanger who once declared that Monteverdi was the first to set human emotions to music-- in that sense there is a direct line of influence from "L'Orfeo" to "La Traviata" and "West Side Story".
Auerbach, in similar lines, argues that it was Dante who was the first intensely 'secular poet'-- and there is little indeed that separates "Anna Karenina" (or even "Lady Chatterley") from the story of Francesca and Paolo ("Inferno", Canto V).
But Auerbach's reading is thorough and (of course) well backed-up.
That this reading could be such a respectable one, yet elude readers for seven centuries also, I think, attests to the remarkable fecundity of Dante.
Rating: 4.5Auerbach repeats himself a few too many times, and I’m convinced this could have been cut down a little, and the section on Dante’s early poetry and the Provençal poets is kind of a slog, but when Auerbach really gets going, it’s some of the best writing about writing you’ve ever read.
Difficult and abstract, but worthwhile. Auerbach gives rather short shrift to the sheer magnitude of the Commedia by trying to reduce it to a single theory of literature, but that single theory itself holds a surprising amount of water, even though I disagreed with it in the end. Overly reductive, but a challenging, unique and worthwhile addition to the usual body of Dante criticism.
It may be more complicated than Dante, but it is still a great introduction to the Divine Comedy and its role as a bedrock of the Western mimetic and -- yes -- secular literary tradition.
"Letto" saltando parole, righe, pagine...era troppo noioso!!!
