https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/639787.The_Murder_on_the_Links
Shut up Hastings. Shut up, shut up, shut up.
Hercule Poirot and Captain Hastings travel to Merlinville-sur-Mer, France, to meet with Paul Renauld, who has requested their help.
Upon arriving at his home, the Villa Genevieve, local police greet them with news that he had been found dead that morning.
His wife, Eloise Renauld, claims masked men broke into the villa at 2 am, tied her up, and took her husband away with them.
" !! يا بنت اللذين " و دي جملة بتتقال فور انتهائك من قراءة رواية لأجاثا كريستي
Told you I lost count) solution is offered, Poirot says, “This is not a crime well ordered and regular, such as a detective delights in.
I disliked that solution so much, it made so little sense, that I thought it was the worst of all of Christie's novel I had ever read -and believe me, they are quite a lot.
But then another solution came up, et voilà!
It may be tough to deal with at times, but I promise it will be worth the effort: “Take it from Papa Poirot!”PS Hastings needs to disappear now.
The Murder on the Links: A RetrospectiveIt was almost fifty years ago I read my first Agatha Christie novel. I was fourteen. I bought it at a middle school book fair. It was an Hercule Poirot mystery, The Big Four, a Dell paperback that sold for $.45. A bargain at the price.  My First Poirot  Through the coming years I read all of the Poirot novels. A few of the Miss Marples. Miss Marple just didn't grab me as Poirot and his friend Hastings did. As far as Tommy and Tuppence, well, I could do wit
The innocent man is saved.The Murder on the Links illustrates the rules of constructing a mystery which Dame Christie followed.
Remember always the little grey cells, mon ami."Dame Agatha Christie during the early cases of Hercule PoirotSo with many more years of living behind me than when I first held an Hercule Poirot in my trembling hands, I have returned to the Golden Age of Mystery Writing.
Really enjoyed this one! Had no idea about who was the culprit.

Ο Πουαρό σε μία γνήσια κλασική «αγκαθική» περιπέτεια, στην οποία διακριτικά και αθόρυβα παρατηρεί τα πάντα ενώ ο γνωστός και μη εξαιρετέος αφηγητής Χεηστινγκς τα κάνει μαντάρα. Τίποτα καινούριο, αλλά προσωπικά αυτή την παλιά καλή οικεία συνταγή την αγαπώ!
كنت داخل رهان اني هعرف القاتل المرة ده بقي ... ورسمت نفس الخطوط وكل اللى ممكن يفكروا حتي يعملوا جريمة وفى الأخر طبعا كتر خيرها أغاثا وديتنا وجابتنا فى ملعب الجولف وغفلتنا كالعادة ومعرفتش حتي الخنجر كان بتاع مين :)احنا واضح ان نهاية فيلم ملاكي اسكندرية أثرت على تفكيرنا فى الجرائم البوليسية قراءة مشتركة وترشيح من الصديقة اسراء وهي طبعا اللى كسبت الرهان احنا اسفين يا أغاثا
This is the second major case for Poirot, following on from "The Mysterious Affair of Styles".
Poirot, with Hastings, immediately leave England, only to find on arrival that Monsieur Renauld has already been killed and his body found on the golf course next door.There follows a convoluted plot, waiting to be unravelled.
There is a tragic widow, a son about to be disinherited, a mysterious neighbour - Madame Daubreuil, and her anxious daughter, and the lovely girl, known only as ‘Cinderella,’ who Hastings meets on the train.
Poirot, of course, comes out the winner and Hastings even gets his girl.
The second book by Christie to feature Poirot we get to know more about him and Hastings. It actually builds up the imagery of Poirot which then the master sleuth carries forward seamlessly in succeeding novels. Interesting plot with lots of twists and turns, finally revealing the murderer least suspected by all. A roller coaster of a novel.
They arrive too late, finding him already dead, half-buried in an unfinished golf bunker, supposedly at the hands of bearded foreign thugs, and possibly at the hands of a jilted lover.
But Poirot soon unearths not one, but two of the principals are living under assumed names and have criminal pasts, while the jilted lover may not have belonged to M.
Renauld at all, and then another corpse pops up.I enjoyed this book quite a bit, as I did its predecessor; Christie puts so much charm and wit into her tortuous, labyrinthine plots filled with deception and red herrings that the joy they bring makes one forgot the craziness of the coincidences and cover-ups.
نرى افلام كثيرة و حبكات كثيرة معقدة فى افلام و روايات و مسلسلات يتمكلنا الغرور فى كشف كل الحبكات مهما كانت معقدة و سهولة الاستنتاجاتف تأتى الصفعات المتتالية من ملكة الحبكات المعقدة اجاثا كريستى "ا ن قلب المراة التى تحب يغفر الكثير من الصفعات "ادهشتينى مجددآ و فقدت القدرة على الكلام مغامرة رائعة مع المحقق بوارو , طريقة سؤاله ل صديقة لتفتيح مخه و كشف الغموض موجهة لنا و كأننا سوف ننافس بوارو فى اللقاء القادم سوف يتملكنى الغرور ايضا و سوف احاول حلها و اعرف النتيجة من الان.*
“Two people rarely see the same thing.”Another enjoyable Christie.
This one is quite confusing with a lot of seemingly nonsensical elements.
I did get a few clues right (can't help myself trying) but nothing else.
This is partly due to the author not sharing all the data.
Naturally, once all is revealed and explained, it made perfect sense.Another aspect that was highly entertaining was seeing Poirot compete with the French inspector.
Not only was this funny (can't believe Poirot restrained himself so much) but I also got the impression that Christie was mocking Sherlock Holmes through this character, who places more importance on ashes than psychology.
I spent a lot of ‘Murder on the Links’ distinctly worried about Captain Hastings.
In later Poirot novels, Hastings always seems the ultimate loyal and reliable friend.
‘Murder on the Links’ however, feels like an author still learning what she can do (and most importantly, what she can get away with) and that gives us a particularly entertaining and surprising mystery.
True, the character of Hastings is all over the place, but Poirot is already perfectly realised and – since his creator is still a way off from getting bored of him – is a fantastically brilliant, enigmatic and full of life character to hang a tale of murder and intrigue around.
A somewhat sloppy mystery. Lots of running around, despite Poirot saying he doesn't like running around. There are bits of information that are revealed a little late so it was harder to figure this one out. Hastings narrates, and he is totally ruled by his hormones in this story, while Poirot clashes, mildly, with a French detective, who insists there are many clues to be found in ash, matches and other little things. (Seems like a little dig at another famous fictional detective...)
Wonderful ♥Gosh, Agatha Christie is such a delight to read. And bloody hell that woman knows how to write some twists and turns. I'll admit that Captain Hastings insta-love storyline isn't my thing, but we'll forgive it all because Christie and Poirot are wonderful.
This is the book where Col. Hastings meets the future Mrs. Hastings. At least that’s what Wikipedia said. I had my doubts, though. He seemed to be lusting after every pretty young girl.  Anyway, a body is found on the golf course and it’s up to Poirot to find the killer.
Generalno neću nešto posebno kometarisati ove knjige pošto je najbolje kada se uđe "slep" u njih. Kazaću samo da svaka čast Agati,stvarno je ovo zaamrsila ko klupko konca sa kojim se mače igra. Iskreno bih čak reko da je možda malo i preterala pošto ima samo tolko obrta pre nego što prestaju da iznenađuju. Posle toga već očekuješ da će se brzo desiti nešto da sve opet okrene.
I could have sworn I had since I did my Poirot readings a few years back, but then realized nope that I must have confused this book with another.
Either way, I am thrilled that I got a chance to immerse myself back into the world of our egg-head shaped detective and his "little gray cells."Told in the first person POV by Hastings (Poirot's mostly bumbling and honestly dumb as anything assistant) in this one.
We have Hasting and Poirot go off to investigate after Poirot receives a letter from a Monsieur Paul Renauld.
However, when Poirot and Hastings arrive, they find the police on the scene since Renauld was found murdered and his wife bound by unknown attackers.
Nothing quite like a rainy Sunday to sit down and get stuck into Agatha Christie.I have a special spot for Poirot, and if I'm honest, Captain Hastings as the narrator.This was classic Christie with twists and turns and secret identities.And I loved it.
This is a brilliantly written murder mystery by Agatha Christie.
It was very interesting to read how these two different detectives collected clues and evidence and formed their own theories as to the mystery underlying the murder and who the culprit was, while trying to outsmart the other.
But nobody can beat our brilliant Poirot, can they?It was also interesting to see that in addition to the detective work, Poirot engaging himself in a little matchmaking!
But I suppose he is indispensable to bring out the intelligence and cleverness of Poirot as well as to provide a little comic relief!Overall, it was an enjoyable read.
تبا !!لأ حقيقي تبا :Dهكذا بدأت الرواية وهكذا انتهت ايضا، وهذا ما قلته بعد أن انتهتبدأ الأمر باكتشاف جثة صاحب الرسالة التى ارسلها لبوارو طالبا نجدته لاعتقاده انه سيُقتلثم اكتشاف جثة اخرى لرجل مجهول الهويةالجريمة الأولى تشبه جريمة حدثت قبل ٢٠ سنة وبَقى الفاعل حرا طليقاأما عن ماذا حدث حقا فهو ما لم يكن فى الحسبانلكن يمكن اختصار الأمر بكونه "جرائم متداخلة"
أجاثا كريستي ~ جريمة في ملعب الجولف..لا أظن أن أحداً قد خمن النهاية الغريبة لهذه الرواية.. محيرة ومعقدة ومربكة جداً..
Another good read. Much better than the movie.
We also get the debut of French Surete Detective, Monsieur Giraud, who is not a fan of Poirot and who for much of the book crawls around the ground on his hands and feet looking for those minute clues that will allow he to solve the case.
This is really a fun paring and I am hopeful that Giraud will be in future books as this gives Poirot a real antagonist in trying to solve the cases and it allowed Christie in this case to let the reader go decide who was headed in the right direction for solving the case and the differences in the two types of detectives.
The plot is full of twists and turns Christie was just learning how to lay down, but this turned out much better than I expected from the slowish opening pages.The real drawback in this and also the first book and what I am told are five more of the 42 Poirot books (sigh), is that it is narrated by Hastings, a bumbling idiot of a young companion who neither respects nor is respected by his Belgian detective "friend." Hastings narrates the tale, but is clueless throughout about what is going on, admiring another (also clueless) competing detective named Giraud who is also "on the case," exposes a crime scene to a woman he "falls in love" with after roughly an hour of talking with her, and berates Poirot throughout his narration for not knowing what is going on.

Hercule Poirot returns to once again solve a murder, this time of a wealthy Frenchman who seems to have foreseen his death.
Oops.And while the characterization might not be great, the way Christie portrays the friendship between Poirot and Hastings is excellent.
Of course, it turns out in the end that Hastings was being a big galoot and Papa Poirot had it right all along—not that he bothered to tell Hastings.Still, it’s a wonderful little diversion from the slavish loyalty one might expect in the detective/sidekick duo that now seems to pervade the mystery genre.As with The Mysterious Affair at Styles and the more recently read 
Still 3 stars on this 2nd re-read.
While the crime-investigation is exciting and very well constructed (all those layers and layers do make your head spin) the surrounding stories (who loves who and why or why not) really irritated me.
I guess that's why I never bothereted re-reading it before.And I never found Captain Hastings so insufferably melodramatic as in this novel.
I didn't care either for Hastings or his lady love, but I forgive the Great Dame, as making him married was a good means of getting rid of him for the next books.
