https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1360727.Appleby_s_End
RTC
One of the best John Appleby crime novels from Michael Innes, this one from just after the war: surreal, fantastical happenings in deepest rural England. Cows, dogs and village idiots turned to stone, a servant of the Manor found dead with only his head showing above the snow, a family of impoverished Ravens whose servants and village members seem to resemble them, pigs sold on the never-never, and only Scotland Yard's Appleby to solve and obfuscate. Erudite and intellectual in the telling, in the conversation, and in the blossoming romance ......

If you can put up with the writing style, which is erudite to the point of pretention, and have a taste for the bizarre, then Innes will be your cup of tea.While I am generally not sure I do like the writing style, I do appreciate the references and the plots always intrigue me. This one doesn't disappoint and there is a twist in the last sentence!
Witchcraft, sorcery, mystical creatures, and folklore are here in abundance to get the crime started and to finish the mystery of murderous ways possibly even reuniting facts once again to the Raven family.This is quite the 'queer' and bizarre world that Michael Innes leads us into but I'll be darn I enjoyed it.Detective Appelby is the detective/investigator/inspector from Scotland Yard who was brought aboard to Snarl to consult on the case.Plenty of others are hopping aboard but something is strikingly familiar about the Ravens as they are quite the intelligent yet deceitful bunch.Ranulph Raven is the father of the present elder Ravens who wrote mystery stories in which some of those tales are coming true."The Comic Spirit , hither to so decisively in charge of the wanderers, slipped quietly away and poetry, stealthy of approach as always, dominated and enfolded the scene."The action centers around the Ranulph Mystery - supernatural tales with his old stories coming true 40 yrs later.Enter the Coachmen Heyhoe who turns up on the losing end of thermodynamics buried up to his head in snow .
This one of the best of Innes' Appleby books.
The sub-genre of mystery with donnish humour is not to every taste, but I like it enormously.
If you enjoy your mysteries with ironic humour, literary allusions galore and occasional outright fantastical episodes, you will enjoy this book, and Michael Innes generally (also look for his "straight" novels written under his real name J.
Innes' writing is not just classic whodunit and erudite humour.
Consider this piece of fine descriptive writing, from the opening of "Appleby's End": 'Sunday afternoon, which in England subtly spreads itself over the face even of inanimate Nature, stretched to the flat horizon.
This book is not one to listen to (audiobook) at bedtime, as it requires more attention than a drowsy listener/reader would likely give it.One reviewer mentioned that this story reminded him of Jerome Jerome's "Three Men in a Boat .
Things happen that are so distinctly odd, yet somehow acceptable as something that could have happened.One of the reasons I keep reading these stories is that I want to know more about Appleby.
If any reviewer has read all of the books and has a recommendation, I'd appreciate hearing it.
Even though it was necessary to read this book with a dictionary nearby, I found the zany characters and situations humorous and entertaining. We will be contrasting and comparing the book with Donna Andrew's Murder with Peacocks. Further comments to follow to follow the discussion in Nov but I must admit I enjoyed the book in spite of the polysyllabic vocabulary. It brought to mind another book--Three Men in a Boat Not to Mention the Dog--and the cleverness of a Jasper Fforde novel.
In a class by itself. Donnish humor. Obscurely criminal behavior. I've read it well over ten times in the last forty years, and only wish I could read it again for the third or fourth time. Contains one of the most unusual courtships in literature.
At times I was bored and bewildered and nearly stopped reading, but I persevered until events became clearer, which they did by the end of the book.Scotland Yard Detective Inspector John Appleby and Everard Raven, once a barrister and now a compiler of encyclopedias, meet on a train.
At one point Appleby thinks it would be ‘pleasant to retire from the elucidating of crime and give oneself to the creating of unashamed fantasies,’ and that is precisely what Innes has done in this book.
This isn’t really a murder mystery and I didn’t like it as much as three of his earlier books that I’ve read- Death at the President’s Lodging, The Secret Vanguard, or The Daffodil Affair.
In this particular story, Inspector Appleby starts out on a long train journey, at the end of which he realizes he can't get to his final destination.
It turns out that several of Mr. Raven's family members were also in the same compartment, and they all set out for home in a decrepit cart driven by a drunken coachman.
The cart gets washed away while crossing a river, the group is broken up (with Appleby and young Judith Raven being forced to seek shelter in a haystack).
The next morning the drunken coachman is found dead, buried in the snow.
This was great fun, with overtones of "Cold Comfort Farm", as well as the usual Classical and Eng.Lit.references and swipes at Agatha Christie and Victorian literature, painting and sculpture.Appleby meets the Raven family, among them, Judith, his future wife. They are both swept away and Appleby becomes involved in sorting out a swathe of rural shenanigans which might, or, this being a Michael Innes, might not, encompass murder, witchcraft and lost heirs.All is sorted out and there is a deliciously unexpected sting in the ultimate paragraph.Thank you to Netgalley and Ipso Books for the digital review copy.
Isn't it funny how a novel written and set in the early decades of the 20th century reads nothing like we would expect it to. Our own distant knowledge of times such as the 1930s is coloured by the prejudice of 90 years and we expect writers of that time to write in the same way as a modern writer setting a novel then would. References should be to Art Deco and the rise of Hitler, not to Meccano and Sherlock Holmes which are our things.Anyway, great book, as if Poirot had been created by PG Wodehouse.
This is a joy to read if you like a complicated series of parallel plots, a baroque family whose eccentricities are wonderful and a satisfying twist on the last page. Michael Innes has created a bizarre setting for a completely untraditional murder story with elements of witchcraft, winter, rustic goings on and a fine collection of completely implausible events. His tongue must have been firmly in his cheek for this book.
This Appleby was finally a bridge too far; gobbledy-gook nonsense from the first sentence. Like, we GET IT, Mr. Innes, you're waaaay literary and you're tweaking the genre. Oooooh. The least a salty author can do is make his or her polemic readable and this novel fails at that minimum hurdle. A hard pass.I received an ecopy from the publishers and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
Innes' style isn't for everyone - donnish, allusive, recondite, convoluted... It's hard to imagine that he wrote anything better than this and certainly not anything funnier. In short, it was sublime.
A book that can only be read with a dictionary nearby (thank you kindle for the build-in dictionary). It is filled with arcane English and literary references. The story itself is too improbable, with Appleby investigating some seemingly practical jokes.
"Appleby's Dream""Appleby's End" begins with the eponymous Inspector taking a train journey.
Crossing the dark winter landscape, the train passes places with names out of some strange allegory: Drool, Snarl, Linger, Long Dream Manor, and of course, Appleby's End itself.
On the train the Inspector meets a Mr. Raven, who is working on an encyclopedia, and is therefore nearly omniscient about everything that begins with the letters A through R.
Everything that happened from then on related back to stories by Ranulph Raven, Victorian novelist - animals were replaced by marble effigies, someone received a tombstone telling him when he would die, and a servant was found buried up to his neck in snow, dead.
Why did Ranulph Raven's mysterious descendants make such a point of inviting Appleby to spend the night at their house?" (from Amazon.com editorial reviews)The story is peculiar, and the audiobook production isn't great, thus the three-star rating.
Inspector Appleby of Scotland Yard is on his way to investigate some thefts and practical jokes in the English countryside in the middle of winter. His journey takes a strange turn when he meets the members of the eccentric Raven family on the train, accepts an invitation to spend the night at their country manor, and winds up getting out with them at a station named Applebys End. What follows is a truly bizarre adventure. Michael Innes mysteries are usually great fun to read. This one was good but perhaps a tad too fantastic for my taste.
Can't deny the wit, or the erudition, or the sure hand of the author. But my early excitement and interest based on those qualities dwindled as I read, because this really isn't a book about real people--it's mysterious whimsy about the donnishly quirky. Which is OK, but not as funny as P.G. Wodehouse. Nor as academically wacky as Edmund Crispin. Nor as mysterious as Dorothy Sayers, or any of a hundred other golden age authors. I finished reading it and am glad that I don't have to read it any more. Maybe others are better?
Scotland Yard detective John Appleby is trapped on a slow train, to investigate "strange happenings," when he meets first Everard Raven, the noted encyclopedist, and then the rest of the Raven family, most notably Everard's cousin Judith, a sardonic but lovely young woman. Soon Appleby finds himself puzzling over the relationships among various rustic families. In this case, Appleby must not only figure out what's going on, but also let his colleague come to an erroneous conclusion, the better to serve justice.
I wish I had bought this for my Kindle because then I would have had a dictionary handy. I consider myself fairly well read but this was a challenge. I did enjoy the humor throughout the book and the character of the Scotland Yard detective. Read it for my book group in Oxford. Had never heard of this series or the author before.
Wow, I didn't think I'd learn so many big words from a mystery book! The verbose writing was sometimes tedious, but I appreciated the combination of well-structured sentences in the mystery genre. The mystery itself wasn't so intriguing, and the solution/resolution wasn't crystal clear. I enjoyed reading this 1940s detective story more for the writing than the puzzle.
At the end there came a feeling that I had been having my leg pulled the whole time. Not because of the briskness the curtains fell with, but rather because of the appalling tameness everyone lined up with to hear the chiding for their mischief.Nevertheless the book is insanely readable even by Stewart's high standards and by far the weirdest of his I've read so far.
Just finished rereading this one. Inspector Appleby of Scotland Yard is sent to rural England in the middle of winter to investigate some mysterious thefts and practical jokes. On his way he meets the eccentric Raven family and discovers a dead body. One of the funniest in this series, with that dry English humor that you might miss if you read it too quickly.
What a strange, funny book! It's hard to describe, but it's a bit like some early Hitchcock movies (39 Steps, The Lady Vanishes) that combine romance and comedy with mystery. I love the absurd sense of humor and dry writing style.
Very distressing. I have read this book at least twice before & remembered it being hilarious. This time it was a joyless slog. Maybe I should wait until my spirits are higher, much higher, before trying to read it again.
One of the best Appleby mysteries. I do love romance and mystery mixed together.
One of my favorites. Witty, intelligent and a great story. A very elegant writer who can turn a memorable phrase. A Marx Brothers plot written by an Oxford Don.
