https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9804779-taltos
this character "Ashlar" just up and jizzes all over the faces of the preceding novels in the series, except that it is not hot, not hot at all.
ugh, thanks a lot Rice for ruining a perfectly good series!
almost as criminal is the increasingly revolting elevation of the character Mona, surely one of the most unlikeable, creepy (and not in a good way) characters that Rice has ever created.
please no more pedophilia disguised as romance..."empowered" juvenile characters like Mona need to vanish from literature without a trace, post-haste.
my gosh, surely that is not too much to ask?
Tim Curry narrates, so... time for a re-read! :D
If you've already been sucked into the Mayfair trilogy, you're going to have to read this book.
I'm sorry.
It's not good.
Really though, this series is worth finishing, even if you LOL your way through the last book because it's so freaking ridiculous.
There is a good explanation for what Lasher is, and how he came to be involved with the Mayfairs, and what the Talamasca knows about it; you're going to want to know this stuff.
Unfortunately, the characters (particularly the family members) have all lost their minds.
The grave of bones scene in this book is creepy...not a good way to die : /
It’s a shame this book follows after The Witching Hour and Lasher, arguably two of the best (and scariest) novels in Anne Rice’s catalogue. This book is a mess.I’m not even going to review this shit.
The talamassca is in these more than her Vampire novels and it was great to learn more about the shadowy organisation.Mona Mayfair is another good character and in this book she gets a lot more time as she is central to the storyline.
All your questions from the first two books are answered very well.There are some huge surprises and I love Ash, the century's old Taltos Rowan and Michal find.
A brilliant end to the trilogy and there are two good tie ins to the Mayfair Witches in blackwood farm and blood canticle which are her last two Vampire chronicles books.
Rice remembered all the detail but forgot to throw in some story to go with it. First two books were great. Maintain a safe distance from this one.
Rice's vision of the "Taltos," a forgotten, practically extinct race of beings that are so close to human they can pass as human but the differences are so NOT human, and THEY ARE SO CREEPY, well it's brilliant to say the least.
They were able to pass as human for a long time, until humans became smart enough to question why they had no "young" and finally began to catch on to the differences.
3.5 stars usually it's the middle book in a trilogy that I would give the lesser rating to but in this case taltos was my least fav of Mayfair witches
So, I am writing this review many, many years after the fact.
This was my third Anne Rice novel after The Witching Hour (which I loved) and Lasher, which was OK.
And along comes this book?
I just couldn't get into it.
It was so horrible, squicky and stupid.
In fact, my best memory of it was the woman at the laundry in Georgia who saw me reading it and warned me not to delve into books like this, they would only wreak havoc with my soul.
You are dead to me, Anne Rice.
Dead to me!
Every time I read an Anne Rice novel I come away from it feeling as though for a while I were peeking into another world, a world I would very much so like to exist in.
Knowing my luck even if I did exist in this world she's created I'd never happen upon one of these amazing creatures, and so I'd still never be the wiser or I'd become a part of a short tragic scene.
Taltos is another example of Anne's amazing skill as a writer, and master story teller.
I just simply love Anne's work so much, and highly recommend it to everyone.
!!Warning; Can contian spoilers if you haven't read The Witching Hour and Lasher!!Taltos is the story which birthed the journey of Lasher and the Mayfairs taken in The Witching Hour and Lasher.
I wanted some happy time as well but never really got it, not even at the ending, which left a tinge of sadness as I closed this book.Another complex character was Taltos himself.
For me the dialogues and story development between Taltos and the Mayfairs was all that mattered.
Perhaps this is what Anne Rice wanted, to leave many things to the imagination of the reader and it does fit the complete vibe of the storytelling.
After "Vampire Chronicles" I thought that "Mayfair witches" won't be so good and I'll be disappointed...
Anne Rice is my favorite author, I'm fascinated how she created such families, their histories, family trees and everything else.
The way author writes about dolls, makes me so...I don't know..very touched.
Dolls for me are my whole life, my children, my family...and when I found these scenes about dolls in this book, I had to read few times everything again to get stuck in my mind.
Anne Rice is a brilliant author, because she can touch every single reader's heart.
I wish there would be more books about this family of witches.
I've found two others with Mayfair Witch characters but they are mixed up with the Vampires in those two books, and I'm not sure I really want to deal with either of them.We finally get to know a real Taltos in this book.
One about Mona and her child and a second one where we find out what was really going on with the Talamasca, who turn out to have a dark and angry side of their own.But primarily we find out about the history of the Taltos.I had a wonderful time with all three books, once again, and I'm sorry that time is over.
Just finished this last book and must say am mildly disappointed--it leaves you hanging, drags you o
A profoundly dumb conclusion to the series. It's Anne Rice—I don't expect Chekhov. I liked "The Witching Hour" because it was smutty and dark. But the answers we receive in this book are so dumb that they reduce a good ghost story to the level of weird, sci-fi slash fiction. This is "The Force is caused by midichlorians," level stuff. The series would have been so much better if it had just ended as a sort of open-ended horror tragedy after book one.
2.5
Reminded me of the "Watchers" from Buffy..
I often had to force myself to work through the denser, long-winded descriptions and too-drawn-out, chapters-spanning monologues of characters recounting every last detail of their backstories that Rice seems to be quite fond of.
But I pushed through for my love of her expertly-crafted characters and spellbinding world.So I was completely taken aback when "Taltos" ended up becoming my favorite book of the series.
The new characters Rice introduces are captivating and fit right in with the rest of the cast."Taltos" was probably the only book of the series that I consistently had trouble putting down--definitely a page-turner.
Culmination of the Mayfair Witches' trilogy, this sometimes feels as though it's an entirely separate book as much of it is concerned with the relating of Ashlar's tale, which is a delicious mix of history with myths and legends, all imbued with the inevitable sadness that comes from having lived a centuries-long life.The events concerning the Mayfair's (other than Rowan and Michael, who simply listen to Ashlar for the most part) and the reclamation of the Talamasca are relegated to the sidelines, which is a shame as I would have liked to have seen a little more to these stories, particularly in the case of the Talamasca (though that part does have a fantastically grisly punishment at it's conclusion).
I read the whole book in a day and loved it.
Because of this book I decided I would love to have a little girl named Rowan.
About a year after reading it I decided to try for a little girl.
In the books one of the signs that a Mayfair is a witch is her being born with an exter finger.
The Mayfair witch books are well worth reading.
You have a old powerful faimly of witches, a spirit who helps and hurts the faimly, an ancient group that watches and records the supernatural.
I started this book with the sense that it was unnecessary; after all, Lasher and Emaleth, the only two Taltos still alive, were both killed at the end of the last book, bringing a close to the conflict between the Taltos and the Mayfair witches.
However, because people love trilogies just as much as Anne Rice loves interview-style exposition, we get a third part to the Mayfair saga.All kidding aside, this is a very interesting book; we meet a new, more mature Taltos named Ashlar, and he freely shares with the Mayfairs the history of his species, stretching back to Atlantis, to the Picts, and continuing up until medieval times and beyond.
Here we are there is another Taltos Mr Ash.....he claims to be the st.ashlar. I loved him...i loved the story it took a step back fromt he total immersion into the talamasca story that was hugely explored in Lasher. You learn about the Taltos race and thier tragic end. this is what Lasher worked so hard for. It is shorter than the prevous two books. I enjoyed it very much and by the end i was in tears.
Oh Taltos, I am so disappointed in you. Why couldn't you live up to the first two novels? Why? Answer me, goddammit! You had so much potential but you just threw it away. Don't you think it pains me to see you fail like this? Mediocre, that's what they'll call you, you know. Those people out there who had such high hopes for you and you let them down like this? For shame! You should hang your head in embarrassment after this weak ass stunt you pulled.
The 3rd book was much better than the 2nd, but left me saddened that the story is over. I did not care for the abrupt ending to the trilogy. Even one or two more chapters would have sufficed... only they do not exist.Having waited so long to finish the series I am only disappointed. What happens to the family? The Taltos? Everyone? Too many questions are to go forever unanswered!
I liked this one but thought the ending a bit rushed. The final installment of the Mayfair witches trilogy. More information about Taltos and their origins. Introduction to Ash, only male Taltos left in existence and his relation to the the Mayfair family.
Well, Anne Rice is definitely committed to her vision.

These were even dumber than I remembered them being from the first time I read them right after college. Why did I think they would have gotten better? I don't know. this isn't really a review for others so much as a note to myself not to get some crazy idea when I am 75 to read them again. Don't.
Very cool series. I fell in love with Anne Rice after reading these.
