https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4499669-the-love-dare
The movie that this book was birthed out of, Fireproof, starring Kirk Cameron, was amazing!!
My husband and I both enjoyed it more than any movie we have seen in a long time.
It was so nice to see a clear moral and Christian message for a change, rather than the filth that fills our eyes and ears on a daily basis.
We ordered the book before we even saw the movie and were so glad that we did!
We are not through the entire thing, but I highly recommend both the movie and the book for any one who is getting married, or is married and wants to stay married!
it honestly takes 2 people to make a marriage work.
doing all the items in this book did not save my ten year marriage because the substance from both sides wasnt there to save.
since my marriage ended after catching my ex and sister in bed and her burning down my house, I'd say my marriage wasnt "fireproof", but heres the kicker because I put into practice these lessons, I had no regrets in leaving my ex cause I did all I could to save the marriage in the 6 months before the fire and I learned how to have a successful relationship with someone who loved me in return.
it has become an incredible foundation for my soul mate and I to build our marriage upon.
god works in mysterious ways.
What I liked about the movie is on Day 20, his wife said, "Don't you get it that I don't love you anymore." (Said that, heard that - through many winters in our marriage.) So he calls his father who gave him this handwritten journal of dares, and his father tells him that is as it is supposed to be, and that he hasn't truly started even loving yet." The movie and books Christian overtones might put a lot of people off, but I don't care.
I worked through the 40 Dares in this book over the last month and a half, and it completely changed the way that I look at my spouse.I have always loved her, but now I have found a better way to love her.A very powerful dare asked me to visualize two rooms in my heart (one APPRECIATION and one DEPRECIATION) for my spouse.
It asked me how often I go in the APPRECIATION room and how often I visit the DEPRECIATION room.I made a three page list of things that I love about my wife, Nancy, and I gave it to her.
I am on Day 29 Love's MotivationWhen God is your reason for loving, your abitlity to love is guaranteed.The love that's demanded from you in marriage is not dependent on your mate's sweetness or suitability. The love between a husband and wife should have one chief objective: honoring the Lord with devotion and sincerity. The fact that it blesses our beloved in the process is simply a wonderful additional benefit.
Now, with people we know doing destructive things in their marriages (speaking negatively about their spouses and to their spouses, rampant pornography, not prioritizing time with each other, etc.) marriages are not being nurtured and are falling apart--people are giving in to temptations.
This book gives fun and real ways to re-connect and show love and respect to one another.
Even an excellent marriage can use some creativity and new ways to rekindle the love that needs to last "til death do us part".
On the negative side (for me), the authors are pretty conservative, and some maddeningly old fashioned ideas of gender roles and the nature of men and women shine through in the writing.
If you can shake that off, or if you simply agree with their views, there are good ideas to be found about how to treat your loved one and how to improve your relationship.
Although I doubt I will check out more books by these particular authors, reading this book with my husband inspired me to keep pursuing this collaborative approach to growing in our relationship.
If you are married, and want your relationship to work out, this is the book to read. It speaks about Love, how God views love, and oneness--togetherness--and unity. It is a forty-day journey to see your spouse for who they are, who they have become, and who you love the most underneath God's leadership. God is the third thread in a marriage, there is a difference between a marriage contract and covenant with God. I take the covenant with God more so than marriage contract. I want to be married until death do us part.
Ouch.It's taken me forever to get through this book, mostly because I wasn't ready for it.Yeah, I'm being honest in my review.
I did the challenges daily, and saw results.
I saw more results than I ever thought possible.
But the deeper commitments I wasn't ready for.Finally I just gave up on doing the challenges.
But this book will have to go back on the shelf until I'm in a place to try again.
But 40 days isn't enough time to prepare a heart, to HEAL a heart to the point where I'm personally ready to renew my wedding vows (the final challenge).
This is a really great book.
It's seen as a resource for when your relationship is in crisis.I felt like I didn't really need to do this book but it turned out I was wrong.It was very useful to have a challenge to complete.
Some dares took longer to complete than others depending on my pride levels.
I also really liked how simple and clear it was written and yet woulxd cut straight to the heart.
Since the focus is love, the lessons learnt here can also be applied in every relationship.Try it.
I dare you.
Un buen libro con recomendaciones prácticas para la vida matrimonial y para entender el amor de una forma real y no como una especie de sentimentalismo absurdo al estilo de lo que hoy se pretende que sea.
El amor es elección.La pega es que, al ser baptista el autor, se pierde muy buenas cosas.
Como los sacramentos, sin ir más lejos.
Al leerlo me daba esa sensación, de que faltaban cosas, de incompletitud.Sin embargo, eso no hace que deje de ser un gran libro que ha hecho y seguirá haciendo sin duda mucho bien.
the opposite isn't mentioned and the message gets stronger towards the end of the book and the religious guilt trips get stronger too.
In one of the final chapters this book lays out how that isn't enough...
The final chapters confirmed my dislike for this book...
a famous verse says Love Never Fails.
That's what the book says...
one is upstairs and the other is my wife.I highly recommend looking elsewhere if you are looking for ways to improve your marriage.
I wonder where my present is?" That's the entirely wrong idea!
(Sin does, indeed, make you stupid.)The book is clearly evangelical protestant, but there was really nothing that troubled me as a Catholic.
There is much good to add but nothing I would take away from the book.
Work through the book day by day and really follow the dares.I especially liked the brief coverage of covenant in the last day of the forty.
It meshes very well with the idea of covenant presented in good Old Testament studies, such as Dr. Hahn's "A Father Who Keeps His Promises" and salvationhistory.com
The movie "Fireproof" starring Kirk Cameron is excellent and will help you relationship immensely. It is very anointed and has moved even the toughest guys I know to tears at the end. Very touching and inspirational. The book that the movie is based on is called "The Love Dare" and it takes a lot of dedication and discipline to do, but, well worth every bit of the effort. I DARE You to try to make it through without blowing it! I dare you! Sherrie Conkelhttp://www.SchoolTimeCafe.comhttp://www.yourAVON.com/sconkel
I just finished this book today, and thought I'd talk a little about it.The book The Love Dare was shown on the movie Fireproof.
The husband reads the book and takes the journey, finding love, happiness, and unity with his wife.
But I went to the library to return a few books that I've been constantly renewing with the hope that I'd read them eventually.
And it turns out all I needed was a change of genre to renew my own love of reading.The Love Dare is a 40 day journey meant to be read by someone with a failing marriage.
This book is meant to be a 40 day plan for a husband and wife to take on a dare, a covenant to read, respond, journal, and put into practice with the goal of rekindling love and marriage.
I wanted to read the book myself and form a conclusion as to whether it was well-written or likely to succeed.
It seems that by putting these 40 days worth of dares into actions, hearts would certainly be touched and/or opened, especially if both partners were willing to commit daily to such a plan.
Let this be a testament to my newly formed book club that I read this book even though I hated it.
But I did start watching the movie "Fireproof" starring Kirk Cameron that has somehow turned this "marriage devotional" book into a movie.
The movie is so bad that it's good.
I want to watch more of it - that's how bad/good it is.
. but I can converse about it with book club.
Anyway - I would recommend a real-life marriage therapist over this daily devotional book any day.
A wonderful lesson in love.
I read it in the hope of becoming the best wife to my husband and I got way more out of it than that.
The descriptions of love as a choice and a commitment were beautifully portrayed with examples from the Bible.
The biggest surprise was that somehow I was left feeling like before reading I mustn't have known the fullness of God's love for me.
I have known God loves me for 25 years but something shifted as I read this and the reality hit me of just how great and real God's love is.
In a good way.
I never saw the movie but I did read the book.
It talks about how to work on your marriage in a way that would glorify God, however, I thought many of the views in the book weren't necessarily applicable to modern, daily life.
I really was turned off by the 5 straight chapters in which the author tried to "save me".
Don't get me wrong; there were many parts of the book that I used in my own marriage but I think, as with any self-help book, one should apply only what can benefit them.
So far this book is great, it gives examples and dares that you have to try each day for 40 days, ti increase love and undestanding in your relationship, and I am happy to say my hubby is doing it with me, I read it aloud to him the night before and we do the dare the next day. Then it gives you a little area to write if during the day you felt like breaking the dare. It's really interesting so far.
This book is from the movie "Fireproof" and I liked both. It helped me think about my marriage and even though I have a great one, there were many suggestions that I took to heart to make it even better. It gives you daily dares, using God and prayer to guide you, to increase the love and commitment in your marriage.
Wow, this really makes you take a good look at all the little things and what really matters to make an amazing marriage. It opens your eyes to the fact that it doesn't just happen. I enjoyed the spiritual center of the process the author drives you towards.
This is an awesome book. Read a little, live a little each day will learn more and more how to challenge yourself to love. Something to really take your time reading and living. Enjoy!!!
I read and follow this book at least once annually. I find myself wanting to buy it and share it with all my married friends!!!
I saw the movie first and I cried during the entire movie. It was very realistic and beautiful.
Despite the semi cheesy movie that this book was born out of...this has to be one of the best marriage books we have gone through together. So glad it was recommended to us!
Un buen libro con recomendaciones prácticas para la vida matrimonial y para entender el amor de una forma real y no como una especie de sentimentalismo absurdo al estilo de lo que hoy se pretende que sea.
El amor es elección.La pega es que, al ser baptista el autor, se pierde muy buenas cosas.
Como los sacramentos, sin ir más lejos.
Al leerlo me daba esa sensación, de que faltaban cosas, de incompletitud.Sin embargo, eso no hace que deje de ser un gran libro que ha hecho y seguirá haciendo sin duda mucho bien.
If you want a marriage that "bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things" (1 Corinthians 13:7) it starts by choosing to love because that kind of love only comes from God and this book has helped me with that.
The second reason is that although this book is meant for couples, it's never a bad thing to really take a good look at what God's idea of love is and then to try to emulate it as well as possible in all relationships, romantic or otherwise.
QUICK HIT – Originally conceived as a companion book to the movie Fireproof, The Love Dare has found a life of its own and is transforming marriages.I will freely admit that, unlike a lot of evangelical Christians, do not and have not fawned over the Kendrick brothers’ movies.
The authors add content, strengthen the writing, add new concepts, and provide more resources and actual reader responses as encouragement.Take this book as a forty day marriage devotional.
If you believe that you should love your wife like Christ loved the church and laid His life down for her, this book will give you guidance and practical application to love sacraficially.
It can be challenging trying to demonstrate sacrificial love if you live far apart, but that also depends on her love language.
(See book "The Five Love Languages").
If you go on this journey, God will change you and give you the foundational love (agape) to truly live this out with her and for her.
