https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/844935.Master_Key_to_Riches
بمجرد بدئى ف كتاب ل نابليون هيل بيكون ف بالى ان الكتاب لن يخرج عن تقييم 3-4 من خمسةالكتاب دا و عند ن
Rather this book elucidates on certain thoughts and actions; skills and virtues that ought to be and can be cultivated by anyone in order to succeed, thus making itself closer to the title of philosophy.
Those who ought to read this book are numerous, but in the end the can be narrowed down to 3 People: (1) Those who find themselves looking to improve their life's situation, (2) Those whose lives up unto this moment are filled with hopeless failure, at the end of their rope, and (3) Those who want to help those who are at a low-point in their life.
The Master-Key to Riches consists entirely in the greatest power known to man, the power of thought!
You may take full possession of the Master-Key by taking possession of your own mind, through the strictest of self-discipline.
~ Napoleon Hill, The Master Key to RichesAs I stated in another review of Napoleon Hill's works, most of the wealthy, billionaires, millionaires all make reference or recommend Napoleon Hill's works.
There are gold nuggests throughout this book, but all in all, Napoleon Hill shows us how our thoughts direct our lives like a rudder on a ship.
Another classic book written in 1910 by Napoleon Hill. This book teaches a phylosophy of personal achievement in all areas of life; health, relationships, wealth,self-discipline, goal setting and more. A good read if you are into personal development phylosophy.
oh this one there is so much to learn from. will be reading this one multiple times as it just that exciting to read.
Self-discipline is the master key to riches.Most useful seems to be the "Creed for self-discipline" at the end.
Like all other books of Napoleon Hill, this one too is a great book and must read for anyone looking for Success and riches in life.
Excellent thought provoking advice that is motivating and ture to life. Should be a must read for all High School juniors and seniors.
wow. Life-changing!
Good, but not as good as Think and Grow Rich.
This is a paper old back book & is priced @ $2.50
Excellent book giving guidance on how to be truly successful i.e., internally and externally. I believe Og Mandino was inspired by Napolean Hill when he wrote "The Greatest Miracle in the World".
Classic
Napoleon Hill's expansion on the key concepts that form the cornerstone of his philosophy from 'Think and Grow Rich.'
A timeless classic.
amazing book.
I still have the same opinion on Napoleon--- though the books are great.
A short easy read!
This is a powerful book that will help you define your purpose in life. I would recommend it to anyone who is ready to think a little!
Great book to get in action on the road to your dreams. I've read this one over and over.
This book is Napoleon Hill's masterpiece. He is the master of motivational thinking.
"أن يقوم المرء بتولي زمام عقله وتوجيهه لتحقيق غاية عظمى محددة في الحياة""ما من شيء يحدث دون سبب" فلتدرك أن كل واحد منا شخصية جمعية ""وهذه نفسك البدنية ماهي إلا منزل تسكنه أنفسك الأخرى وهي قوية جدا لدرجة أنها قد تستقبل وترسل الذبذبات الفكرية إلى أي مكان في العالم ،بالإضافة إلى امتلاكها قدرة كامنة على الوصول إلى الذكاء المطلق والتناغم" مع قواه الهائلة
If you have read Napoleon Hill's Keys to Success: The 17 Principles of Personal Achievement, this book will be a bit redundant. It basically discusses some of the same success principles from that book, including definiteness of purpose, the habit of going the extra mind and the master mind principle.
This book is most interesting in the world
Loner
Great book! It provides the steps necessary to change your thinking and subconscious mind
money
Didn't much like the organization here. Not much new and doesn't fair well against similar offerings.It was also a bit too bent on material success as opposed to personal development
I still live by with the words and inspiration from this book. One of my best
This book brings lot's of interesting ideas. It's not only about making money but about another aspects of life. I believe if you follow this, you will succeed in whatever you want.
