https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111050.July_s_People
In July's People, Gordimer writes of the 1980 race riots in Johannesburg that wrestled the city out of white control.
Gordimer writes of the Smales family and their house servant named July, who rescues them and offers them hope moving forward.
As soon as Johannesburg falls prey to rioting, July offers to bring the Smales to safety in his village some 600 kilometers away.
This event is high lighted in the shifting of power in the relationship between July and the Smales family, one that most likely was duplicated throughout South Africa.
The beauty of the book is in the slow reveal, the step-by-step unfolding both in the book and in your mind of how life really could have been without Mandela.The brilliant writing, very controlled and precise, treats the reader as a full participant in the story and leaves far more unsaid than written knowing the reader will fill in the details.Excellent book.This is a good companion book to Doris Lessing's The Grass is Singing which addresses on the domestic level, as July's People does, racism in Zimbabwe, that other greatly problematic southern African country.
Away from the amenities of an upscale, urban neighborhood in Johannesburg, away from all known civilization, in the heart of the formidable great South African wilderness, among people whose lives are different from their own as chalk is from cheese, Bamford and Maureen Smales and their 3 children become witnesses to the spectacle of humanity, stripped of all its materialistic props.They become mute spectators to their own struggle for survival in the harshest of conditions and are left with no other option but to fall into the same pattern of weed-gathering, mealie-meal consuming, wart-hog slaying daily activities of the native Africans.
I could almost imagine myself living the same nightmare as the Smales family in that stifling atmosphere rife with Equatorial heat and humidity and taut with the tension between July's black people and his white employers.I am letting Ms Gordimer take over from me again- 
Sometimes a fictional account of what didn't happen to a country tells you more about its inhabitants than a history book ever could.
What would happen to their power balance, to their understanding of interracial relations, to their personal communication?
Gordimer analyses the tiny details in suddenly changed mutual behaviour to show the switching attitudes between former servants and masters, now put into the opposite roles.
The story reveals the core of a segregated society, but tells the story of individual life changes at the same time.Harsh, personal and realistic, it is Gordimer at her best.
A lot of times, random lists and jagged sentences were thrown together, and with the dialogue having no speaker tags or even quotation marks, I was forced to get the audiobook just so that I could comprehend what the heck was going on and who was talking.
There is definitely a lot of thought behind this book, which leads me to say that if perhaps I pick this book up in the future and give it more time (I had to read this entire thing in one week, amongst 4 other college classes), I would probably enjoy it more then.
Your people are the ones closest to you, the ones who claim your loyalty, or they may be the ones you don't even know, but whose heritage you share, so the ties bind you to your people.July is respectful and charged with responsibility, but he also seems a bit sinister in the eyes of the white people who don't understand July's People.It takes them a while to see that they are also July's People, that this village black man, their former houseboy, has now assumed control of their lives and by doing so, he's protecting them.
In our world, South Africa had managed a peaceful way out of apartheid and began the painful road to democracy.
In July's People, South Africa turned out more like Zimbabwe, where the racial hierarchy broke down into a civil war.But that is only on the periphery of the story.
Our story is about the Smales family, who have fled their comfortable suburban homes and have arrived in the home village of their servant, July.
They are all in disbelief that the colored peoples of South Africa were able to take power.
This, if anything, is a deeply uncertain future.
Everything shines like blistering cobalt, cooper & gold: dialogue (precise & natural), character, prose, story, history, the resulting legend.
"July's People" is all about tiny events that go all but unnoticed as whites and blacks try to hide from the civil war in 80's South Africa.
The fractions of moments equal both salvation and apocalypse, & many times simultaneously.
A huge question opens up above the whole enterprise.
Let's rejoice at the synthesis between masterworks like the late great Edward Albee's play "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" & Kazuo Ishiguro's future* "Remains of the Day."*Written years way after "July's People."
July, a black servant to the Smales, a liberal white family, leads them to his rural village for safety.Reading South African books from the days of the apartheid regime, I always feel a sense of claustrophobia.
One can literally feel the helplessness and frustrations of the characters, and it happened again with Gordimer and the characters in her book finding ways to cope with situations that are alien to them.Through Maureen and Bamford Smale, Gordimer shows how being well meaning is fruitless in the face of systematic oppression.
“The transport of a novel, the false awareness of being within another time,place and life that was the pleasure of reading.”I'm not a fan of Nadine Gordimer's and I never will be.
The novel examines these three topics in an eye-opening way and I learned a lot about what it would take - and what it took - to free South Africa from their racist administration.
Gordimer points out that as a white person being against the inequality between blacks and whites in SA is only effective when one actively tries to dismantle this imbalance.
At once you're a servant, living on the property of your Master(s) and then, when they need you the most, when they are thrust from their homes, left abandoned because of war, you are the one to be thankful for; not for your servitude, but for your caring nature, for your allegiance to a people that treated you well.
When they have no other choice.My first exposure to the Nobel Prize winning author Nadine Gordimer was at times an enlightening one, but also a 'scratch-your-head wondering about the style of prose' one.
The book does well draw the disintegrating situation in South Africa in the 1980s.
I am not giving it more stars quite simply because I don't find the writing exceptional in any way.
I have read books about war where humor has been thrown in.
The audibook is read by Nadia May. Do you want to know what I really think, or should I just say something polite?
Nadia May's intonation makes her sound so darn snotty, it drove me crazy!
OK, maybe she should sound this way, but it was exceedingly hard to listen to.
Published in 1981 during the anti-apartheid movement in South Africa, Nadine Gordimer imagines a civil war where blacks overthrow whites.
Of course, July and other blacks had been experiencing the reverse problem when they went into the cities to work for English-speaking whites.The ending was ambivalent which disappointed me in the sense of not having closure.
No one knew what the racial tensions would bring while ending apartheid.7/14/14 Rest in Peace, Nadine Gordimer.
The 90-year-old Nobel Prize winning author, known for her books about racial tensions in apartheid-era South Africa, has died.
In July's People, the white Smales family (Bam, Maureen and their 3 small children: Victor, Gina and Royce) left the city and took shelter in the rural house of their servant for 15 years, a black man named July.
is still vivid in my mind after almost 30 years!Lastly, in terms of writing, reading July's People reminded me of my favorite ever John Steinbeck's opus, The Grapes of Wrath because of its enthralling lush sad tone.
At the start of each chapter, Ms. Gordimer, 1991 Nobel awardee for Literature, referred to a particular character as black or white.
(yeah I'm looking at you, Jose Saramago!) I'll give you a taste (this layout doesn't allow for m-dashes, only n-dashes, so the dialogue doesn't stand out as clearly as it does in the book): July broke into snickering embarrassment at her ignorance of a kind of authority not understood - his; and anyway, he had told them - everybody - about the vehicle.--Told them what?-- She was confident of his wily good sense; he had worked for her for years.
I know, I know....I am supposed to have had some great cathartic experience from reading this book but it just did not happen.
I don't particularly enjoy this style of writing.
It seems disjointed and confusing and was like trying to read something written on a bumpy ride in the country.
The story was okay, could see parts of where it was going.
I read it mainly because it was on my list of have to reads and I was very glad it was a short book and was very glad when I finally reached the end of the 184th page.
Woods pulled out all the stops fighting for justice for Biko and his travails; but at the time how many people across the board appreciated Woods' sacrifices?Rather irritatingly, the myth of "human smells" is echoed in this work.
One would have thought that people would realise that all humans have their own smell, and if they do not wash or bathe regularly they would necessarily “smell" regardless of race or colour...This book happily enough is fiction that was not mirrored in the verisimilitude of South African history.
The crazy thing is that this is fiction: apartheid in South Africa somehow didn't end in war.
(This is the short version, okay?)So July's People is sortof science fiction.
Her white protagonists (also anti-apartheid) flee their home in Johannesburg when war breaks out and take shelter with July, who had been one of their servants, in his village.
The white family's heart is in the right place, but they're way out of their element.
Gordimer doesn't tie the story up for us: (view spoiler)[in the end a helicopter arrives at the remote village, and we're unsure whether it brings help or violence.
This book captures the subtle shift in the balance of power between the Smales and July, as the middle-class white family tries to adapt to subsistence life and the expectations and illusions of apartheid society break down.This is a story that runs narrow but deep: but for a few flashbacks from Maureen Smales, it takes place entirely in the tiny village over the span of a few weeks, with a cast consisting only of the principals and a few villagers, yet it covers more ground than many a longer book.
However, in July’s People’s case, much of our awareness stems from this well-penned work, as it zooms in the daily life of the Smales’ and their last remaining black servant, depicting the minutest details of it.-----“That was how people lived, here, rearranging their meagre resources around the bases of nature, letting the walls of mud sink back to mud and then using that mud for new walls, in another clearing, among other convenient rocks.”-----“The decently-paid and contented male servant, living in their yard since they had married, clothed by them in two sets of uniforms, khaki pants for rough housework, white drill for waiting at table, given Wednesdays and alternate Sundays free, allowed to have his friends visit him and his town woman sleep with him in his room—he turned out to be the chosen one in whose hands their lives were to be held; frog prince, saviour, July.” -----July, though hazy and resilient -Very somber and almost flat, to me__, embodies reliance, strength and benevolence.
Gordimer has a nuanced intelligence that is quite genuine. And the book is stylistically rich. Still, I found it claustrophobic, the entire story taking place in a tiny and narrow settlement, and the resolution ambiguous and unsatisfying. Others may find this much more to their tastes.
This fiction novel was first published in 1981, thus 10 years before the end of Apartheid in South Africa.
This novel show the differences in understanding and interpretations the Whites have on the Blacks in South Africa despite some of the blacks work in the house for the White during many years and/or living in the same country.
I had way too much difficulty reading the English language in this book, especially, the first two chapters.
However, it might seem unnecessary to read this novel years after the end of the Apartheid.
For whatever reason, I've become friends with a fair number of white South Africans lately.
And while they are all deeply regretful of the apartheid era, there is a sort of tension there, a feeling that despite their modern, liberal attitudes, a lot is being unsaid to me, the outsider, about the issue of race.And Gordimer, writing at the height of the apartheid era, was able to crack just that.
Our primary characters are decent white people who suddenly find themselves in unfamiliar terrain.
Ambiguity is the name of the game for Gordimer.
How can I say I “liked” this?
It was grim and depressing and powerfully difficult to read.
It may well be a great novel, but I had to force myself to read every single page.
It forced me to confront my own gathering horror at the fact that I was indeed horrified at seeing deep injustice being over-turned.
Not only is it an intensely emotionally wrenching novel, Gordimer’s narrative flows right through thought, dialogue, memory, and action without distinction.
The literary difficulty and the emotional difficulty twine around and play off of each other to create a tour-de-force of discomfort.
As the novel progresses, the white family starts to lose more and more privilege/implied power as they realize that they aren't as liberal as they always considered themselves, and they are entirely within July's power and can only live there on his sufferance.I found the subtle balance of power to be very effective in this book.
Maureen and Bam's feeling of being trapped and helpless is emphasized by the occasional switch into July's wife's POV and his mother's POV, as they note that the white family is taking up a good rondavel, that they don't know how to do their own thatching, that they can't even pick the simplest plants without nearly poisoning themselves.
Great premise, I just couldn't get into Nadine Gordimer's writing style.
i actually think it would be an interesting companion piece to "home," because it is also about whiteness and racial constructions (among other things) as expressed through interpersonal relationships.
but whereas home left me feeling sort of weepy and moved, "july's people" left me feeling incredibly tense and out of sorts.the story is set in rural South Africa, where the white, upper-class, liberal Smales family has fled to temporary safety with the help of their black servant, July, in the face of an armed rebellion against apartheid.
Gordimer takes this one step further, not even describing who's speaking (I think it's a South African thing to use dashes to offset dialogue?).
Armed militants are fighting in all of the cities.
The Smales, a liberal white family, escape with the aid of their servant and hide out in his village.
Tension builds within the Smales as a shift in characters shimmers like the heat rising above the veldt.
Gordimer’s writing style took a little effort on my part to get through.
But like reading a Faulkner, the effort was well worth it.
The tension within July’s People weighed heavier than the actual book… it was like holding lead.
The conflict was not the battle in the cities but the battle within.
Beautifully written prose. The descriptions of life in July's settlement are vivid - often achieved through precise word-sketches in just a few sentences, yet so evocative.The book subtly reveals power struggles in apartheid South Africa; power struggles between black and white (no matter how liberal their thinking), between man and woman, city and village - nation against nation... struggles that are still apparent in the micro cosmos of the village we get to know so intimately in the course of the book.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
