https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4936457-the-time-traveller-s-guide-to-medieval-england
The last English wolf was killed in North Lancashire in the 14th century.The People: Half of the entire population are under the age of 21 so everyone is inexperienced and immature.
The avg medieval person is considerably shorter than their counterparts of today, although nobility are about the same height as today.
If you have a well kept fruit orchard you are very lucky and can make preserves from apples, pears, berries, plums and grapes.A Medieval Street in York, EnglandThe Language:In 1300 the nobility speak French, not English!
But what bothered me was that apparently, if you want to time travel, you'd better be male: there's some lip service paid to actually discussing women's role in society, with some references to the kind of work women did (mostly: make ale, I gather), and quite a lot of reference to the kind of clothes women wore, and how likely women were to be assaulted and raped, but.
And don't give me the excuse about that not being interesting to read about: nor is intricate detail about what a monk can eat on which days, for most people.
In summary: to time travel, apparently you have to be male.
Most of us who read history or historical fiction set in Medieval (or even Tudor) England, can agree on one thing: we can’t understand the ways of life “back then” properly because we tend to apply modern morals and standards to history.
Although academic in topic, Mortimer’s writing style is anything but; as it is easy to understand, descriptive, and witty.The Time Traveler’s Guide cleared up so much information in my mind which has been swimming around from the countless history books I have figuratively consumed.
Overall, The Time Traveler’s Guide to Medieval England is an absolutely terrific book: one of those works which you are sad to see end.
It's nonfiction written like fiction, which made it super fascinating to read. This book covers all of the details of what life would be like in medieval England, except it walks you through each section like you're really there experiencing it. There were some really amazing facts and I actually learned a lot (like what types of squirrels were present at this time).
P. HartleyTake this book along on your next trip to Medieval England to help ensure your travel experience is a smooth one.
Blinding horses was the Medieval equivalent of scratching off vin numbers, meant to insure stolen beasts didn't make their way back home.This book is the slice-of-life history study I've been searching for.
I've never had a strong interest in Medieval times or English history, but that's not required to enjoy this fast paced and fun book.
If I had one critique it would be to add more information about the Church and the Plague, both of which dominated 14th century life but were absent throughout most of the book.
What compels my interest is not the fierce battles or matters of court, but more the running of the day-to-day life of the common people, during this time.For that reason, it was like this book was penned with my particular desires in mind.
Instead, this was split into sections that focused on one particular area of interest - such as clothing, food, and housing.
As the title suggests, this book is written as if it were to be used as an actual guide for an actual future time-traveller, assisting them on how best to fit in if they were to return to an average day from this period of history.
The premise: a different take on presenting an overview of a period of time, using the format of a travel guide – something of a Fodor's England 1320 that might be found in the TARDIS.
From the introduction: We might eat differently, be taller, and live longer, and we might look at jousting as being unspeakably dangerous and not at all a sport, but we know what grief is, and what love, fear, pain, ambition, enmity, and hunger are.
Description: Imagine you could get into a time machine and travel back to the 14th century. This text sets out to explain what life was like in the most immediate way, through taking the reader to the Middle Ages, and showing everything from the horrors of leprosy and war to the ridiculous excesses of roasted larks and haute couture.As Susanna mentions in her review, the clothing section was very interesting: knitting was not known in 14C.Fully recommended.3.5* The Time Traveller's Guide to Elizabethan England4.5* The Time Traveller's Guide to Medieval England
This book was super interesting and informative if you’re looking to understand what life was like back in 14th century England. Plenty of statistics, but also the author worked hard to tell about life in an interesting narrative way that kept things from getting too dry. I found all the little tidbits about trade and buildings and the daily life of an Englishman very informative as well as statistics about percentages of the population that was literate, what sort of life you could expect if you were born into a household that worked for a landowner, etc. 5/5 stars.
Ian Mortimer's decision to create a guide for tourism shifts the focus of history from the "Great People of History" to the "People You'll Meet while Walking by Shitbrook," and that turns out to be far more fascinating -- at least to me.
Want to know how to avoid prosecution for murder in case you slip up during your travels?
Want to know what drinks to avoid, what to look for in foods, what roads to take, what protection you'll need while travelling, what to wear, what to read, what to carry with you?
Look no further than this fantastic guide.
“fellow or friend, ye be welcome”), about the sumptuary laws, what certain coins look like and what you might be able to buy and where, what diseases we might succumb to if we’re not careful, what we might be served and how to eat it whether it be in an inn, a peasant’s house or a king’s castle (all of which are thoroughly described as if you’re on a guided tour), Mortimer runs the gamut of class and place in this vivid recreation that is at once hugely informative and always vastly entertaining.
An exciting and compelling way to engage with the past The Time Traveller's Guide to Medieval England: A Handbook for Visitors to the Fourteenth Century is a wonderful concept.
The Time Traveller's Guide to Medieval England: A Handbook for Visitors to the Fourteenth Century really brings the era to life.
Ian Mortimer uses the second person and the present tense throughout.
I notice Ian Mortimer has taken the same approach in two other books - The Time Traveller's Guide to Elizabethan England and The Time Traveller's Guide to Restoration Britain: Life in the Age of Samuel Pepys, Isaac Newton and The Great Fire of London.
The premise: a different take on presenting an overview of a period of time, using the format of a travel guide – something of a Fodor's England 1320 that might be found in the TARDIS.
Exploring the experience of all the senses, this should be a gem of a resource to the writer of historical fiction or fantasy.From the introduction:We might eat differently, be taller, and live longer, and we might look at jousting as being unspeakably dangerous and not at all a sport, but we know what grief is, and what love, fear, pain, ambition, enmity, and hunger are.
A very interesting way to write a history book. This author wrote this book like it was a travel guide. He tries to describe the sights, smells, and people of the era as if you could walk down the road and be in the middle of it. I really enjoyed reading it, and suggest it to anyone who enjoys reading history. I hope he writes more like it.
Really 4.5 stars.Because this book is such a tantalizing glimpse into the real lives of people in 14th century England it has inspired me to do something that my university lecturers couldn't, and that is to actually read The Canterbury Tales. It's now officially my special project for next year. Thank you Dr Mortimer :-).
The idea that you are a visitor to medieval England, discovering what life was like there from your own observations draws the reader/listener into that world immediately.
The author imparts his knowledge on the subject with such a light touch that it is never dull, always entertaining, and sometimes amusing (medieval fashions were bonkers - would you want to wear a pair of shoes that made it impossible to walk upstairs in?).
There are many subjects included, ranging from fashion, food, health and illness, hygiene, hunting, travel, jobs, war, religion, royalty, crime and punishment (often arbitrary, swift and brutal) and much more.I wouldn't want to live in medieval England - the chances of dying of something now preventable or curable was immense.
The past is a foreign country; they do things differently there... As the arresting title implies, the book is laid out in the form of a travel guide to medieval England, with chapters such as: The Landscape, The People, The Medieval Character, Basic Essentials, What to Wear, Travelling, Where to Stay, What to Eat and Drink, Health and Hygiene, The Law, and What to Do.With an interesting narrative device such as this, we learn of everyday life "back then" by viewing fourteenth century people a
As the arresting title implies, the book is laid out in the form of a travel guide to medieval England, with chapters such as: The Landscape, The People, The Medieval Character, Basic Essentials, What to Wear, Travelling, Where to Stay, What to Eat and Drink, Health and Hygiene, The Law, and What to Do.With an interesting narrative device such as this, we learn of everyday life "back then" by viewing fourteenth century people as peers and contemporaries whom we interact and work and live with.
Four hundred yards from the city gate, the muddy road you are folowing crosses a brook.
As you look along the banks you see piles of refuse, broken crockery, animal bones, entrails, human feces, and rotting meat strewn in and around the bushes.
In some places the muddy banks slide into thick quagmires whhere townsmen have hauled out their refuse and pitched it into the stream.
Just as fourteenth-century place names are direct descriptions of localities (for instance: "Shitbrook Street," Pissing Alley"), so daily speech is equally straightforward and ribald...So if someone slaps you on the back in a hearty way and exclaims, "Your breeches and your very balls be blessed" do not take it amiss.
I was in the airport in London and had a few hours to kill, and voila - I'm taking in a fully articulated picture of life in medieval England.Flashback - me as a kid, with my brother and father, at a renaissance festival.
He describes the work as a serious attempt to engage the reader in serious history.Now that I've checked off the "medieval england / history buff" category of my reading interests, I'm going to try and shift back to the main stream.

Interesting guide on 14th century England - how they lived, eat, got sick, etc.
What's that you say? Do whatever Kate Beaton says? OKAY!
Ian Mortimer couldn’t be a more qualified source of information, as a member of the Royal Historical Society, and the recipient of their prestigeous Alexander Prize in 2004.What I love most about this book is the way it’s written, as if you really were travelling back in time to the medieval period, with chapter headings like What to Wear, What to Eat and Drink, and most delightfully, What to Do.Under the chapter heading of Landscape, Mortimer discusses London in some detail, and includes a list of Ten Places to See in London.
I love learning new things about places and peoples, even if it’s a place I’ve “been” to before, which is why Ian Mortimer’s The Time Traveler’s Guide to Medieval England intrigued me.
What sets Mortimer’s book apart is that he not only approaches the topic as a travel guide that leads to you interesting sights and shares fascinating tidbits about the place, but he also helps you imagine how it would be, as a 21st century person, to actually travel there.For example, where would you go if you got sick?
Brilliantly conceived and executed. Just what is needed to fill out a dry historical account of 14th Century England, but even more useful for evaluating how far historical fiction strayed from historical fact. Mortimer gives plenty of detail but it is well organized and presented in such a companionable manner that it always goes down smoothly.
Excellent orientation to life in the 14th century. Mortimer writes from the bird's eye perspective of the reader as a visitor from the modern day.
From a loose tunic in the early century, clothing styles changed greatly to be more form-fitting, with shorter hemlines for the men.No wonder monastic chroniclers feel obliged to pass comment; they blame the men for displaying very short skirts and well-packed hose, and they blame the women for being delighted by what they see.It certainly gives credence to the saying “what goes around, comes around,” doesn’t it?Other chapters in the book cover subjects such as traveling, where to stay, and what people eat and drink in that era.
For instance, we see how people lived in the 1300s, what their houses were like, and what they did for a living.We learn about the large fields that were unfenced and un-walled and how livestock often wandered over the crops.Individual families had about an acre that they were responsible for tending, so when this happened it was quite “an embarrassment.”The forests covered about 7% of the English countryside back in the 1300s and there was hardly any loose timber or branches lying on the ground.People gathered it up and used it for kindling or building.
This bias permeates the entire book and rather spoilt the reading experience for me.
This books is written as a guide to provide virtual time travellers with an account of what they would encounter if they travelled back into the fourteenth century.
I loved it in spite of the bias, as the style and the accounts of everyday life are so incredibly vivid and well-written.
Still, his detailed accounts on time-keeping, the social order, etiquette and cleanliness make this book a very good read, and the detailed input do not interfere with the reading experience due to the set-up of this book as a guide.
Ich habe jetzt aber wirklich Lust, eines der fiktionalen Werke des Autors zu lesen, denn seine Kenntnisse über das Mittelalter (in Großbritannien) und die Lebensweise der Menschen damals sind absolut beeindruckend.Das Besondere an diesem Buch ist, dass es nicht nur trocken Fakten berichtet, sondern tatsächlich versucht, dem modernen Leser die Denkweise und Mentalität der mittelalterlichen Bevölkerung nahezubringen.
So ist sein Sachbuch alles andere als eine trockene Geschichtsstunde, die Fakten werden mit atmosphärischen Beschreibungen und vor allem sehr viel Humor aufgelockert.
