https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/168642.In_Cold_Blood
"How much money did you get from the Clutters?""Between forty and fifty dollars." Top Picture Hickock, Richard Eugene (WM)28 KBI 97 093; FBI 859 273 A. Address: Edgerton, Kansas. Birthdate 6-6-31 Birthplace K.C., Kans. Height: 5-10 Weight: 175 Hair: Blond. Eyes: Blue. Build: Stout. Comp: Ruddy. Occup: Car Painter. Crime: Cheat & Defr. & Bad Checks. Paroled: 8-13-59 By: So. K.C.K.Bottom Picture Smith, Perry Edward (WM) 27-59. Birthplace: Nevada. Height: 5-4. Weight: 156 Hair: D. Brn. Crim
My Dad was a sophomore in high school in 1955 when Perry Smith decided to burglarize the Chandler Sales Company in Phillipsburg, Kansas and this seemingly insignificant act was really the beginning of this story.
He told Hickock and Smith that Clutter was a wealthy farmer, and kept a safe full of cash in his house.
They came back up to the United States and there was this baffling moment where Perry Smith is reading the paper and sees an article about a family that was tied up and shot to death.
The cold-blooded murders in Kansas in 1956 is described by a cold, distant narrator via the interviews of the family, acquaintances, and community around the victims and the the hair-raising stories of Perry and Bobby, the murderers.
In Cold Blood kept me thinking that most of the recent murder mystery shows and movies were indebted to this piece of literature (that Capote probably deserved a Pulitzer for but was passed over, helas, in 1965).
An awesome read.Note that in A Capote Reader, there is a great short essay about the making of movie In Cold Blood where Capote talks a bit about the 6 years it took him to write this masterpiece.
On November 15, 1959 Richard "Dick" Hickock and Perry Smith, on a tip from another inmate, brutally murdered four members of the Clutter family of Holcomb, Kansas.
Having heard that the Clutters possessed either a safe or $10,000 cash in their home, Smith and Hickock desired this wealth for themselves so that they could live out their days in a Mexican beach resort.
This work lead to a new genre that brings together nonfiction and fiction in a way that history feels like a story.
His research was detail oriented and allowed him to bring the story of the Clutter murders to the average American home.
And, I know there's all this controversy over how the book is written since it adds fictional conversations and thoughts that Capote obviously couldn't have known, but everything is rooted in the nonfiction account of what happened, and I think it adds a deeper layer of connection to the family.
In Cold Blood works more in reverse and saves the details for later, and my God when I got there I didn't even want to read about what happened.
It's also a very detailed account of the senseless murder of most of a family, but I took away a lot of other stuff from its pages, too.
However, despite their problems, they maintained a strong family bond, were well-liked by the entire community, and we get a sense that things were looking up for them.After the murder takes place, as if to intensify the suspense, Capote does not immediately reveal to us exactly how or why Perry and Dick committed the crime, but instead takes us on their journey as they attempt escape through the deep South while the investigators begin to try to solve the crime.
The murders were a tragic “psychological accident” (according to Alvin Dewey), the collision of two personalities gone terribly wrong with an innocent family who was in the wrong situation at the wrong time.The final section of the book, from their first of many trials to their execution, presents us with the moral dilemmas surrounding the punishment of crime.
In Cold Blood by Truman Capote was described by its author as a non-fiction novel.
The novel was first published in 1965 and at the time this style of writing, perhaps even the template for a new genre, was fresh and new and bold.
Critics may take umbrage with Capote’s sympathetic depiction of the killer’s plight, and perhaps such an argument has great merit, since the murderers showed no mercy to their victims, but Capote’s contribution lies in his objective illumination of all the surrounding facts and details of the crime.
While true crime fans might read this today and think that it sounds like your basic true crime story, at the time it was groundbreaking to detail a crime in this much detail and in a format as big as a novel.One of the things it appears that this novel set the precedence for, and that I have seen in other true crime novels, is that the author is not only researching the story, he is getting in the mix and talking face to face with the criminals (example - Ann Rule).
Capote blankets Holcomb, Kansas with his curiosity.
Capote looks at how the townspeople react to this.
How do people mourn?
He looks in depth at the criminals.
How could people do such awful things?
In reading this I was reminded of some of the great panoramic art works of a bygone age, works by Bosch, Breughel, in which entire towns were brought together into one wide-screen image.
This is what Capote has done.
I was also reminded, for an entirely different reason of Thomas Hardy.
Capote has an incredible gift for language.
He writes beautifully, offering descriptions that can bring to tears anyone who truly loves language.
A seminal work for the non-fiction novel and the true crime genre, Truman Capote's In Cold Blood stands apart from most of its literary descendants.
Not only is it compelling and suspenseful even when you know (like many crime dramatizations) what's going to happen, it's also very well-written.
In fact, its literary quality gives In Cold Blood a dimension which few other non-fiction novels will match.
The evolution of the form, since In Cold Blood, is nothing short of astonishing.
It makes you appreciate how different the experience of reading the book is now compared to when the book was published.
Definitely worth reading!
PART 1: STEVE’S REVIEW4.0 to 4.5 stars. Written over a period of 7 years and published in 1966, this novel, while not technically the first “true crime” non-fiction novel, is credited (correctly) with establishing the genre and being the progenitor of today's true crime novel. I would certainly agree that most of the other true crime novels that I have read followed almost the exact "blue print" laid out by Capote in this book. That is quite a testament to the technical excellence of this novel
I would certainly agree that most of the other true crime novels that I have read followed almost the exact "blue print" laid out by Capote in this book.
That is quite a testament to the technical excellence of this novel.The book recounts the story of the brutal murders in Holcomb, Kansas of a farmer named Herb Clutter, his wife and their two children.
The book spends considerable time showing the effect the killings had on the Holcomb community and how different people responded to the event both postively and negatively.
Η εξέλιξη γεγονότων και συμπτώσεων που προκαλούν τον αφανισμό της οικογένειας είναι μια λεπτή διαχωριστική γραμμή ανάμεσα στα πάντα,που φαίνονται και είναι κανονικά στην καθημερινότητα των ανθρώπων και στην απόλυτη καταστροφή, που χτυπάει ξαφνικά απο το πουθενά.
Αποδέχεται χωρίς μεγαλοστομίες την τοπική επιβολή των νόμων στην αγροτική περιοχή καθώς και τον τρόπο ζωής και σκέψης του λαού της.
Αίσθηση τραγωδίας διαπνέει την διαμόρφωση της ζωής τους, μα ο τελικός απολογισμός δείχνει καθαρά να σέβεται όχι το «ποιοι» ήταν οι δολοφόνοι αλλά το ποιοι θα «μπορούσαν» να είναι.
Ό,τι παραμένει για πάντα ανεπίλυτο είναι προφανές πως μπορεί να επαναληφθεί και να εξελιχθεί με πιο δραματική βάση και ουσία.
I thought to myself, do I need to write another review for one of the best true crime books ever written?
This is how the book starts and Truman Capote’s writing had my blood chilled and my heart sad for the victims.It is about the murders in 1959 of the Clutter family at their farmhouse in Holcomb, Kansas.
The sad truth is that if he had not written In Cold Blood, no one outside of Holcomb, Kansas would know who the Clutter family is or the killers, Perry Smith and Dick Hickock.
In Cold Blood is a non-fiction recount about the murder of the Clutter family in Holcomb, Kansas on a November night in 1959.
It’s impressive that Capote was able to reconstruct the story, background and investigation with the level of detail provided throughout the book.
I felt like a thorough picture was painted of who the Clutter family was, as well as who the two murderers were.
I enjoyed Capote’s writing style in In Cold Blood, a leisurely build - initially two “separate” stories that undoubtedly, knowing the premise of the book, will intertwine at some point, and continue keep you engaged all along the way.
The Clutter family home in Holcomb, KS, site of the November 15, 1959 murders.Though the writing is technically perfect, and someone (like Trudi) might come onto this review and yell at me for having attributed to it an incorrect number of stars, it is difficult for me to award that fifth star in cases where the book fails to rock my world, emotionally speaking.
But oddly enough, Keener is not credited anywhere in the novel as having made any contribution to it whatsoever.Come to think of it, though, neither is Philip Seymour Hoffman.
This is only truer for the books I read.In Cold Blood is a true crime narrative detailing the crime, investigation, and trial related to the murder of four members of the Clutter family, and therefore I wasn’t planning on feeling anything if at all possible.
A sickening kind of pity - it nauseated me to read about him.Maybe if this book felt more focused on the Clutters, I would have given it five stars.
It’s no wonder that this book to some extent birthed the genre of true crime as it is today.
But I’d prefer to think it wasn’t.Bottom line: I love true crime.
Written originally as a piece for the New York Post by Capote, he later developed it into this novel.I have very little to say of the plot because YOU NEED TO READ THIS BOOK YOURSELF.
The dawning of a new type of literature - the true crime book - but still not as we know it today.
This book reads like any fictional crime novel only it is based on fact.
A truly remarkable piece of work, Capote keeps you turning pages waiting for the big twist, he has you riding along with the story so much so that you almost forget you are reading a true account of a crime.
In Cold Blood is a non-fiction novel by American author Truman Capote, first published in 1966; it details the 1959 murders of four members of the Herbert Clutter family in the small farming community of Holcomb, Kansas.
Through Capote's words, you are transported to this small town; you get alternating accounts from the family, from the killers, from other residents close to the crime.
Just the sheer amount of data compiled and how it was intricately woven together fascinates me - yes, I know that is what nonfiction novelists do but this was truly a groundbreaking piece of journalistic writing at the time and should be appreciated as such.Another interesting aspect of this for me is how focused Capote was in the psychology behind the killers' motivations and actions, as well as their complex relationship with one another both before and after the crimes.
I think anyone who enjoys true crime, criminology, psychology and even sociology will find this book absolutely captivating.
This book is another example of why I’m not all that interested in nonfiction, or maybe it’s just true crime in general. The writing was stellar, the characterization was well done, the scenes were vividly captured, and the dialog was spot-on. Yet this story somehow failed to captivate me. In fact, it took me nearly the same amount of time to read Stephen King’s kitten squisher of a novel The Stand as it did this book, which is roughly  the size. At first glance, there are only a few things I co
That was downright painful to read through, see spoiler: (view spoiler)[And there were half a hundred other items he had decided he must take with him, among them his treasure maps, Otto’s sketchbook, and two thick notebooks, the thicker of which constituted his personal dictionary, a non-alphabetically listed miscellany of words he believed “beautiful” or “useful,” or at least “worth memorizing.” (Sample page: “Thanatoid = deathlike; Omnilingual = versed in languages; Amerce = punishment, amount fixed by court; Nescient = ignorance; Facinorous = atrociously wicked; Hagiophobia = a morbid fear of holy places & things; Lapidicolous = living under stones, as certain blind beetles; Dyspathy = lack of sympathy, fellow feeling; Psilopher = a fellow who fain would pass as a philosopher; Omophagia = eating raw flesh, the rite of some savage tribes; Depredate = to pillage, rob, and prey upon; Aphrodisiac = a drug or the like which excites sexual desire; Megalodactylous = having abnormally large fingers; Myrtophobia = fear of night and darkness.”) (hide spoiler)]It’s also worth noting that this story is not a completely factual account.
I felt that Truman probably held the details of every interview close to his heart hence a lot of unnecessary banter between town-folk, relatives and even very minor characters were not omitted.
The conversations were crucial, but somewhat too plenty.I couldn't help but think of one of Disney's famous editing principles while reading this book: If it's not important in the telling of the story, cut it out.
The book is obviously a novelized transcript of interviews: if it isn't, then it certainly felt like it was.
The non-fiction, true crime account, of the quadruple murder of the Clutter Family in the small town of Garden City, in Holcomb, Kansas.
In particular to this novel, Capote payed true attention to he psychology of both murderers, how this effected their relationship to each other and their approach in the crime.
Overall this book was a fascinating true crime piece of work and was so detailed and well-researched, providing accounts and important narratives to a multitude of people, and how a vicious crime and subsequent investigation effects the lives of those involved.
Within 10 minutes of finishing In Cold Blood you'll be on the internet searching for pictures of the killers and victims of this real world multiple-slaying narrated brilliantly by Truman Capote.
The photos are there, and like a voyeur, you'll be drawn, captivated, needing to see the mug shots, the murdered family, the courtroom stills, the crime scene, each room that held a body with a head blown open like a busted melon.Capote breathes such realism into the characters that all you'll need to make the story complete are those black-and-white photos.
For this reason the story, for me, was one of 'why' instead of 'how.'I also liked that Capote applied psychoanalysis to the crime.
But occasionally a crime is committed that rocks us to the core; a crime so senseless, so brutal, that it defies explanation.
His relentless research, which led to this brilliant 1966 "non-fiction novel"' and the subsequent movie by the same name, will shine a spotlight on this innocent family and their brutal killers, Richard "Dick" Hickock and Perry Smith, for years to come.One of the interesting side notes for me was the fact that Capote's childhood friend, author Harper Lee, accompanied and assisted him in his research for this book.
I thought so right up to the moment I cut his throat."- Truman Capote, In Cold BloodI'm not sure why I waited so long to sit down and read this novel.
Anyway, that was kind of how I felt reading about Perry.
That humanity touched by that evil is what haunts that book and makes it relevant now and into the future.* These aren't very rare because the first edition of 'In Cold Blood' was printed like it was the Bible in 1966 because of the interest shown by the original New Yorker articles.
Truman Capote was super obsessed with this case and took his buddy, Harper Lee, with him to Kansas where they interviewed everyone extensively in this small town.
This book was the result and took him 6 years to get out.
The book is good whether or not he exaggerated or gave "alternative facts." Again, sign of the times.
The only thing that was difficult for me with this book was the unbelievably descriptive writing.
But, I pressed through it because I am brave like that, and I found myself very immersed in the story.
The killers, Dick Hickock and Perry Smith were arrested six weeks after the murders, but Capote does not start at that point; not at the point of the actual slayings for dramatic effect, as many writers would.
Truman increases the feeling of suspense as the search continued whilst making us more familiar with the two characters who had perpetrated it, so we are familiar with both Perry Smith's abusive childhood and Dick Hickock's head injuries and possible brain trauma following a car crash in 1950.
This was the best story about true crime that I have read. Capote's description of these events is riveting and everybody should read it, whether they like books on true crime or not.
But when their own life stories were presented by Capote, at first I did not know what to feel (he came from a broken family, he grew up with strangers, his father humiliated him, all he wanted was to have a good education, when he was small he cried looking up at the moon as he thought it was so beautiful).
In fact, in one of the TV news programs last week, I saw no less than Senator Miguel Zubiri calling for the return of capital punishment in the country.I am not saying that Rolando Mendoza was right in taking those tourists as hostages and killing them in the end.
Holcomb, Kansas November 15, 1959(Herbert, Bonnie, Nancy and Kenyon)Four of the six members of the Clutter family were bound, gagged and murdered in their home.
They ended the life of those four people, leaving two surviving children that were not present on the night of the murder.The town of Holcomb was left in terror that something so awful could happen in their quiet little neighborhood.
Truman Capote was apparently “obsessed” with this murder and followed its trial closely.
This was the first book I have ever read by Mr. Capote and I am absolutely amazed with his writing.This is a heartbreaking story reality.
Considering the adapted-to-screen version, the biographical film centering around this period in the author's life, the seemingly infinite number of editions printed over the last 40+ years, the massive hype surrounding the murders/murderers even today, the more than likely THOUSANDS AND THOUSANDS of reviews already written about the novel, and the general rock-stardom that IS Truman Capote, it seemed about as pointless as dropping a pebble into the Pacific Ocean and hoping for a wave.
