https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6476.George_Washington_s_World
My little brother read this book for school and totally hated it.
In all honesty, this book could have been really great.
The thing that made this book boring and hard to understand was the way the sections were set up.
The book would tell you a tiny bit about one person and then a tiny bit about another person, then another person and so on.
When the book finally gets back to the original person you can't remember what they did in the last section.
This book would have been wonderful if they had just arranged the stories better.
AmblesideOnline year 4 book. Foster’s histories use short stories to tell about the things happening around the world during the lives of famous people.
I made connections between events and people that I had never realized before.Most history books, it seems to me, look in-depth at one event or a short period of time, in a specific geographical location.
Foster's approach, instead, looks at things very broadly, but not in a lot of depth.I loved making connections that I'd never made before as Foster shifted from one place to another.
(Like, how did the German George II become King of England in the first place?) But these I can seek out separately.
Genevieve Foster explains in clear, simple language and nice, short chapters the events and people that were noteworthy in George Washington's world - which includes leaders of countries, scientists, soldiers, inventors, philosophers and many others around the world.
Each chapter begins with an illustrated two-page spread introducing the people living and the events that took place during that particular time in George Washington's life.
He is included, of course, but it feels like during much of the book he is merely the device to introduce other people or events.
I will soon be reading Foster's Abraham Lincoln's World which also won a Newbery Honor.
Eh, I was just kinda reading it for school, but as I got deeper into it, I kinda started to like it, and it felt like the book was never going to end!I was surprised it was not only about, George Washington, but other important people, and their lives. I very much recommend to anyone who likes history.
This is one of the books that I'm reading for my Newbery Challenge; it's nonfiction, history to be exact - somewhat rare among the Newberys.
She touches on events from around the world; given the time she was writing, it's not surprising that she's Western-centric.
She is also not without opinions: dislikes the French, really likes the Germans (a bit of a surprise given she was writing in 1941), admires the Chinese emperor, the First Peoples are honorable savages but their land really belonged to the whites, and the Virginians are planters.
I just never really thought much about it just like most white Americans.
I had to read this book for school, it is the third book by Genevieve Foster that I have read.
She writes her books almost as if they are storybooks, rather than giving you a bunch of random and confusing facts (like most history textbooks these days).
These are some of my favorite history books, and I have read A LOT of history books!
The last one that I have to read for school is "Abraham Lincoln's World", and I am really looking forward to it!
All in all, I'd say this is a great book to read for school or even for fun!
We read this to supplement our history curriculum this year. It was wonderful in parts (I'm thinking of Marie Antoinette and parts about Washington in the War), but it could be confusing going between the characters and stories. I prefer Story of the World, but that's more for younger grades. This is an interesting series for junior high or high school as a supplement. I'd rate it 3.5. It was definitely better than Caesar's World, but I can tell the author has some biases I wouldn't agree with.
Insightful to the happenings around the world during the start of our country.
Such an outstanding series.
Again, global in extent and engaging with a storylike narrative. An excellent text for advanced elementary school or middle school students.
Ms. Foster's work is a welcome contribution to the topical approach.While people unfamiliar with her format may assume the entire book is about Washington, it is really more about "his world".
Each section features biography of Washington, but also chapters on the various people and events shaping the world in his time.
This assists the student in contemplating what the world looked like *to a person living in that time*.
But for the chronological study, this approach is a gold mind that highlights to even very young students that people's lives develop over time.
The book is full of great drawings, maps, and musical snippets, so there’s a lot of visual interest (important in a history book of this length!).At first I was put off by the cheery way most events and people are talked about (war, slavery, colonization, etc.), but later I started to appreciate the subtlety–none of the people discussed were wholly bad or good, and the author doesn’t shy away from mentioning the less savory aspects of our forefathers’ lives, even if she doesn’t dwell on them.
This is the first of Genevieve Foster's World of...
books, where the author not only recounts the life of a famous person, but also takes a look at what was happening around the world during their lifetime.
Ms. Foster presents the information in a nice, storytelling style.
While the extra information, adding the contribution of non-white guys, makes for a richer book, you can sort of see the "seams" of the expansion.
In some parts, a person's slaves are mentioned as a matter of course, in others, the notion of slavery is roundly condemned.
But that's a small blemish in an otherwise excellent book.
This is one of a whole series of books that tell what was going on in the world at the time of a significant historical figure. I would give the whole series 3  stars if I could. These books are great for a general picture of history, but obviously not for in depth study. We read these aloud, over a period of several weeks. Because of the way the book is laid out, it can be several days before a story is revisited. I often would have to remind the boys where the previous story left off before co
This is one of a whole series of books that tell what was going on in the world at the time of a significant historical figure.
I would give the whole series 3 ½ stars if I could.
Because of the way the book is laid out, it can be several days before a story is revisited.
I often would have to remind the boys where the previous story left off before continuing.
I think this can be confusing at times for them, and I’m sure all the stories didn’t get connected in their minds.
The book was a lot different than I expected.
It started out as a whole bunch of important stories from around the world that were taking place at the same time.
Fortunately, I didn't have to suffer through a 350 page book all about George Washington.
Unfortunately, the author tried to tell so many different stories that they were over-simplified.
I did like though, how the author tried to connect them together.Also, by the end of the book the American and French Revolutions took heavy precedence.
At the beginning we learned about everything happening during the life of George Washington.
By the end, it was all the Revolutions.
I love how her history book series ________'s world tells you not only what happened in the life of that person (for example George Washington), but it also introduces you to the other great people in the world at that time and let's you know the great events of the period.
I feel like this gives us a more complete picture of history.
Our children read this series of book in their middle grade years for their history.
Unlike most students, they love history.
I think it has to do with the fact that for the most part they read real books instead of textbooks in their study of history.
For those of you who want to read it, I suggest you don't because after you finish reading one chapter you will feel like you got hit in the head with a train.
It didn't make any sense, Napoleon got a full page dedicated to the first thirty seconds of his life, yet it didn't manage to tell anything great he did.
It did tell that his soldiers dug up the Rosetta Stone, but he didn't do that.
And when you read it, you wish that aliens really did come and remove all your memory.
And also, I hope you don't think I'm being sarcastic.
I really like history and Ms. Foster certainly has put together a thorough telling here of the years from 1732 to 1799. I appreciated approaching our early American history from a world perspective.My only criticism deals with the way the information is organized and simply comes down to personal preference. As you read the book, you get glimpses of one person, then another, and another. By the time you read about the original person again, it's hard to remember what you read before... at least it was hard for me. Perhaps I'm the only one with this problem?
It is a good thing I can type my review of this book because, having just finished reading it out loud to my kids, I have no voice left to TALK about it.
For the same reason that I enjoy and appreciate all of Genevieve Foster's books, this book does a great job of taking a snapshot of what was happening around the globe during a period of time, Eastern and Western cultures included.
I liked looking at early American history by making George Washington the focal point; lots of major events were covered, but made so much more interesting with the biographical focus.
I really enjoyed this book of world events that occurred concurrently with various points in George Washington's lifetime. Each chapter was a short glimpse of what other people were doing, including childhood snapshots of Napoleon, and Marie Antoinette, as well as major events (Storming of the Bastille), and it really rounded out our study of American History during the colonial period and early years of the country.
An interesting concept for a world history book that will appeal to adults as well as children. It is somewhat romanticized and the author understandably has to skim over most events and personalities, given the sweeping nature of her subject. However, for the most part, the book is accurate and Foster's grasp of world history is remarkable. A very readable book, nicely illustrated by the author, which makes one want to read more about George Washington and this era in world history.
I read this book for a history curriculum a few years ago.Genevieve Foster does a very good job of telling what happened all around the world in George Washington's time. I learned a great deal about Gearge Washington, but so many other things. Foster also keeps it interesting. She tells it almost like fiction, good descriptions and so on and so forth, and telling it like it was.I reccomend this book to anyone who likes history, or learning a variety of things at the same time.
This was a very thorough and interesting look at history. We enjoyed very much the way it was broken into 5 parts and then comprehensively detailed the goings on all around the world during that period. We also appreciated that each section was short and we were never overloaded with dates and details. This is a very enjoyable way to read World History.
This isn't my usual three star rating-I didn't particularly enjoy reading this but had to for school, however for a history book it was well written and also told in a 'story like way' which personally I found it added interest.Thanks for reading my review!!
This series is so helpful. I always knew that history happened un-isolated, but I had never realized everything that went on in George Washington's lifetime. The fact that the book is written for children make it a very accessible read for anyone. I recommend this to anyone wanting to educate themselves more.
For a history book, it was pretty good. It had lots of detail, and lots of interesting little bits about George Washington you might not hear other places. It would be good for making a time line, studying on, and also figuring out what was going on while George Washington was alive.
All of Genevieve Foster's history books are well-worth reading. George Washington's World covers the time in history from George Washington's birth to his death. What a fabulous way to learn world history as well as US history.
This book was okay, it talked about George Washington and his history of how his success became. Talking about the things he overcame and what not, I think a few kids might have interest but if they love history than this book is totally for them.
I loved this meaningful book that gives a unique perspective about what was happening on every continent during George Washington's time. I like the pictures. I scanned them in and had the kids color them while I read.
