https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/596355.They_Loved_to_Laugh
After her mother dies, shy orphan Martitia is given a home by a lively and affectionate Quaker family in North Carolina. The brothers tease her to death while their sister resents Martitia's delicate white hands and lack of housekeeping skills. Yet it will be an unexpected talent of Martitia's (along with hard work) that saves the family fortunes!
I thought I'd just add it into my Goodreads review :) Recently orphaned Martita comes to stay with a Quaker family who have agreed to take her in, and immediately falls victim to pranks played on her by the boys of the family.
They Loved to Laugh is a touching, beautifully written tale which I found wonderfully entertaining.
While I agree that people should be able to laugh at themselves, some of the things Martita faced on account of the boys’ pranks did not call for laughter, but instead punishment for the boys.
I thought some of those seemed just kind of mean.(view spoiler)[Having Clarkson die seemed like a cop-out way of resolving a love triangle.
I didn't really like Jonathan much, and I thought Clarkson was a little better.
(hide spoiler)]There is a lot of archaic language in this, and, consequently, I found much of the dialogue to sound rather stilted.
‘You are too pretty to understand large questions like slavery, child.
It takes learned females like Sarah to think on such matters.
(view spoiler)[I also thought it was a bit unrealistic that the French woman would be that generous just because Martitia speaks her language.
A truly delightful read.
I cry every time I go through Martitia's trials with her, and as I see her grow through adversity.
But I also laugh with her.
The portrait Worth painted of life in rural North Carolina seems difficult but less harsh than some of the pioneer accounts, and it contains gems of wisdom for how to live life, to work hard and to love.
The cover is a little weird, but don't let that put you off.
Keep reading, because the scenes with Martitia and the silk worms are incredible.
I love this book!
Yes, it is old fashioned and contains some very old fashioned ideas.
But the story of a family that accepted an orphan into their midst as their own and teach her to laugh is one that never grows old.
One thing, as reading it as an adult, you notice things you didn't notice before.
You realize that this family knew loss and heartache.
Yet, they were able to laugh, tease, and sometimes torment each other while showing love.
I have the old, original edition, not the one shown in the picture.
Sweet little historical fiction read that I ran across on accident. One of the things that fascinated me personally was the mention of one of their neighbors, Nathan Coffin, in Guilford County, NC. Turns out this Quaker family was acquainted with some of my ancestors, which added an extra level of interest for me.
An overly wholesome attempt at entertainment that isn't actually entertaining. Martitia is weak, boring, and almost worse than Bella Swann on the idiot protagonist scale. The characters held no happiness for me and I would never have picked up this book if it hadn't been for my curriculum. Not recommended for anyone who values their sanity.
Doctor David Gardiner, who attended her parents in their last hours, takes her home until her relatives can arrange for her care.
But Doctor David's family is unlike anything Martitia has ever encountered before.
But that's always a good problem!What made us laugh:The Gardiner boys are the funniest set of brothers ever!
From the pranks they use to greet Martitia to Addison's wiggling ears, they are just sheer fun!What made us cry (edited to protect the innocent who are unable to resist spoilers):(view spoiler)[{Someone} dies.
We know why he had to die, and it really was well done, but still...{Someone} dies.
A very simple and moving book, about a Quaker family in an earlier American day.
A young girl loses her parents and is taken in by the family of the doctor who had been with them as they died.
The doctor's family is Quaker, though the mother and grandfather are the only ones who truly cling to the strong and strict form of their religion.
There are five boys who seem huge and overpowering to the small and solemn girl when she first arrives at their home, the more so for their great and frequent laughter than their actual statures.
P. 60, checked reviews again to see if I needed to keep going. Read this review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... and decided that it is indeed time to DNF the thing. I should like it, but I don't. Boys & Ruth too mean, Martitia too childish, not enough about Quakers, Eunice doesn't even act like one. Bleah.
A wonderful book portraying a loving Quaker family, in the 1800's, and the shy relative they took in, who "doesn't laugh". Delightful, with humor and a happy ending!
Another abrupt thing -- when Jonathan pours the water on Martitia's feet (why would that make you laugh?
Then she goes inside and Eunice says that Jonathan left his ink for her in case she wants to write a letter and Martitia is like "why did he leave ink?
Oh wait, no, she doesn't talk about the family - just her crushes, Clarkson and Jonathan (which is not-very-subtle foreshadowing...it's subtlety with a capital B and isn't very believable).
Except that she doesn't know whether she likes Jonathan or whether she's scared of him, fsr.
This was not a well written book and I didn't care for the protagonist much.
I had to remind myself that just because it was written a long time ago doesn't make it a classic or literature.
With that said, it was a sweet story about good people and overall left me with a good feeling and I appreciate that.
Maybe youth would appreciate this more.
They don't seem to notice quality as much and thereby would take away the overall sweet story, leaving a good impression.
Maybe it is because they were young when they read it and are remembering those young impressions?
This book was written in 1942. The copy my library got for me has a broken spine and the due date slip in the front. That just added to the charm of this sotry. I'll never really know how to pronounce Martitia's name, but it doesn't matter really. She was a wonderful young lady who survived the loss of her parents and came to live in the Quaker family of Doctor David.
I used to devour books when I was a kid, and this book is one of the few that I went back to again and again to read. The characters are so wholesome and goodhearted. And the sweet love story that slowly develops as the little girl grows up is endearing.
a delightful fun read that was both entertaining and interesting. I would obviously recommend highly.
This one was SO good. The girl is a lot like me.I'm not very good at understanding some ppls humor....same as the girl. LOVE THIS BOOK!
This was my favorite book ever when I was young.
Very dated. Very 1950s middle school grades. All girls should learn housekeeping in order to catch a man and marry.
My family's favorite book! I've read it a million times. Tee writing doesn't stand up against that of other writers, but that never dampened my interest.
I read this book when I was young and just loved it. It reminded me of the two books by Louisa May Alcott, Eight Cousins and Rose In Bloom. This story just warms my heart.
Edit 5/31/2016:"My intent in this story is to re-create as nearly as possible the inward truth of historic character, not the outward accuracy of historic detail." ~Kathryn WorthWell I truly think she succeeded.
In this new home of hers, she has to overcome her laziness and learn to work long and hard every day.
Having Martitia, a girl who has a situation as close to ours as possible in her time, in the story, helps us to see how believable working like that can be.
I guess what I'm trying to get at is: we come from a time when working all day just to take care of a home is unheard of.
An enjoyable story of an orphan adopted by a Quaker family in 1830s in North Carolina. I enjoyed it very much.
They Love to Laugh Recently, I read the book “They Loved to Laugh’’ by Kathryn Worth.
Because of this she goes off to stay with a Quaker family, the Gardeners, till her rich uncle and aunt fetches her.
While at the Gardener’s home Martitia learns of family love, hard work, and bravery.
Martitia then realizes she belongs with this Quaker family, and not her rich uncle.
Like most books “They Loved to Laugh” had its downslides.
Also, there is one death in the family of an important character that shouldn’t have occurred.
This book is about a very little (in height) 16 year old girl.
Following this Jonathan returned to the house after finishing his law degree and heartily agrees to help with Martitia's case.
Clarkson, The middle child, always loved Martitia, but upon realizing that he must have a future, he and Zabraillai, the other brother, leave to become merchants.
One year later Martitia gets a letter saying that Clarkson died helping sick people.
This made the choice of Jonathan or Clarkson an easy one.
She picks Jonathan and even though they are lawfully siblings, this doesn't matter and they choose to get together.This was a very brief summary of the book.
Sweet and beautiful but kind of an airhead that eventually learns to work--but I'll take Snow White anyday over Martitia!
Clarkson she TOTALLY loved (saying she always had loved Jonathan at the end made me angry!!!
You just played with Clarkson's heart for a whole year and totally ACTED like you loved him, but as soon as his brother came home you were going to turn on him?
I totally rooted for Jonathan and the one girl he liked--SHE WAS SMART.
Why couldn't Jonathan be with someone who was smart, beautiful, sweet, and hard working?!
I read this book with outbursts of laughter.
The characters lept from the pages and leaned over my shoulder as I read their exploits.
I learned to love each and everyone.From being pellted with apples upon arriving at the farm to learning to do housework to falling off a log into a stream filled with snakes (no snakes but the boys told her they were there) every moment kept me turning the page."Every tub otta stand on its own bottom," soon became a time honored motto around our house.
My mother and sister read the book.
I read the whole thing in a couple hours, and immediately speed-read almost all of it again to make sure that what I had thought I read at the beginning was what was really on the page, and it was, which I could hardly believe based on the rest of the book.It was recommended by a lady I don't really know as one of her family's favorite fiction, so I thought maybe it was good.
Now I'd say don't bother; stick to Louisa May Alcott's Eight Cousins.
I absoluty loved this book.
Martitia is an orphaned girl who is taken by the doctor who tended her parents to live with him.
He has five boys who all tease her mercilessly, and one daughter who resents her for her lack of housekeeping skills due to her upbringing as a 'lady.' While Martitia leans these skills and makes herself into an educated and talented young woman, it is the skills that she cultivated with her mother that end up saving the family from hard times.The family is Quaker and farmers and Martitia is Presbyterian, raised to be a lady, and inherited property from her father.
Sex 0Violence 0.5 there is an incident where a sheep dog and a wolf fight along the lines of LassieLanguage 0Drugs 0This book is about as clean as it gets
The story centers on Martitia and the Quaker family who take her in when her parents die.
Martitia is intimidated by the boisterous, teasing sons, whose mission it becomes to make Martitia laugh with them in their pranks, and also by the lone daughter, who sternly admonishes Martitia to be useful, because 'every tub must stand on it's own bottom'.
Martitia is used to keeping her hands pretty for playing the spinet and painting, so learning to cook, clean, and weave is a big change, but one she sets to determinedly.
The tension and love between Martitia and the brothers is a large part of a beautiful story of family, love, loyalty, and learning to laugh.
