https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41022133-colorless-tsukuru-tazaki-and-his-years-of-pilgrimage
We will talk again tomorrow.”I managed to get a quick “Goodbye” in before the phone hung up.“How did you find the ending Brendon?” Moriko asked on the Friday afternoon.“Well, I did like how the novel left off.
I am glad you enjoyed Mr. Murakami’s latest book.”“Thank you for listening to my thoughts Moriko.”“You are very welcome Brendon.”And she hung up.I stood for a while next to the phone pondering these strange conversations I had over the previous week with Moriko and had a strange feeling that this was not the last I would hear from her.After all a new Murakami work called 'The Strange Library' was set to come out in a few more months.
One reviewer describes the book as full of oneiric, poetic and metaphoric elements.
It’s insulting to the readers to have the main character offer to talk to one of his old friends about his girlfriend and have him repeat what we already know thanks to not sleeping when the first hundred pages happened.
I feel I’m a bit unfair with this book because there was a good part of the first hundred pages that I enjoyed despite the simplistic writing and the formulaic plot.
For a guy who prides himself in being mysterious, Murakami unforgivably lacks subtlety and his books feel like copies of one another.
To me, Murakami's books are like ice cream.
Also, while a too large bowl of ice cream can cause stomach troubles (maybe like The Wind-Up Bird Chronicles), this time Murakami limits himself to a nice amount of 360 pages.I will not go into much detail on the plot.
So, which point of view is the right one?The major part of the book is a quest to find out why he was so harshly removed from his circle of friends.
On the positive side: I love the melancholic atmosphere, the story is not too intangible, it has the perfect length, the characters are believable, I - almost - couldn't put it down.
I know what it is to lose friends, to have people randomly walk out of your life as if you never existed: it’s not a nice feeling after years of friendship.For Tsukuru its four friends and they all exit at once.
I wonder how many people are truly happy in life?
When we find our shot at happiness we fly straight towards it and do everything we can to ensure that it never leaves us.
Colorless Tsukuru Tazaki and His Years of Pilgrimage is an absolutely fantastic novel, and, as with Norwegian Wood, reading it may hurt.
Source of the original image here.No bingo this time.I've had an awfully hard time trying to write a review for this one.
But now we're at the point where I'm having a hard time telling this book apart from the rest of his work.
Murakami even stays with the same emotional motifs - the difficulty of growing up, the hard truths about how people change as time passes.
Colorless Tsukuru is not a bad book, but one which fades into the rest of Murakami's work.
And throughout the novel, whenever women aren't involved, it's a good book - Murakami isn't a bad writer, and he's insightful (although a lot of the conclusions Tsukuru finally comes to could also be found in a Paulo Coelho book and no that is not a compliment) and smart.
No matter how good the book - and I have yet to read one with a false rape accusation that wasn't bad - it's harmful, especially because it suggests it's something that happens a lot more often than it does, considering how often it's used in movies and books and whatnot.
It is sixteen years since Tsukuru and his four colorful friends turned 20 years of age and in a sense made the transition to adulthood.Although the novel is still loosely about this transition, it is told from the perspective of somebody much older, if still affected by it.In a way, Tsukuru's pilgrimage returns him, not to some source of religious belief, but to his adolescence.
Inevitably, his pilgrimage will help him understand his immediate past (the last 16 years) and his present, but also his future.My copy IOn Being BlueAt the age of 20, Tsukuru's tight-knit community comprised of four other school friends (whose names all contain the Japanese words for colors - red, blue, black and white) suddenly dissociated themselves from him without giving him a reason.
‘ Life can only be understood backwards; but it must be lived forwards.’ -Søren KierkegaardIt is a shame that we cannot relive the past, only merely recreate it. We bear the scars of events we can only comprehend in retrospect, but must rely on flawed memory and biased examinations of what truly came to pass. Internationally acclaimed novelist Haruki Murakami’s 2014 novel,  Colorless Tsukuru Tazaki and His Years of Pilgrimage—a title that screams of pure Murakami whimsy and flair, is a novel abo
Murakami succeeds with this ponderous novel about the uncertainties of identity, identity formed and forged internally but highly persuaded by the external elements and how we see ourselves in the mirrors of our peers interactions with us.With Colorless Tsukuru Tazaki, Murakami achieves a wonderfully delicate balance of his authorial duality—both his coming-of-age realist narratives and the more fantastical and playful style full of parallel universes and magic—crafting a melancholy, introspective investigation of self with an eerie sense of mythicality looming in the peripherals of the page.
Murakami is a genius at writing with emotions swirling beneath the text.
Murakami writes best when he makes the reader feel like they are just near the surface of wakefulness.
He bends the reader into a zone where it feels like a strange contractive tendency of the surface between sleep and wakefulness between musical, lucid dreams and surreal, philosophical nightmares.It feels like you are balancing blind on the edge of a train platform; you feel the sound of the train and feel the compression of his words, but don't know if the Murakami train is going to hit you from the left or the right.
Tsukuru Tazaki’s life looks like it’s going well, but he’s emotionally stuck. He’s located the place in the past where this has happened, a time when close friends inexplicably banish him from their group, but 16 years later he still doesn’t know why. What follows is a compelling idiosyncratic odyssey in search of answers and identity. Murakami’s novel is a meditation on moving forward and coming to terms with a past which will always be outside our reach, always incomprehensible. I look forward to reading more Haruki Murakami.
Depressing Haruki Murakami facsimile of the most amateurish kind. It's evocative, transcendent, but solely in a topically-curt, almost embarrassingly-superficial way. The easy prose by now has entered a very comical dimension. This is farce. It is all simplicity, nuance; it's all pretty... empty. LAAMEIs this (the beginning of) the downfall of our very beloved Japanese contemporary literary master?
I mean, I loved "Wind-Up Bird" but it was one of my first Murakami books, I was a lot younger then and I still did not know that Murakami recycles the same ingredients when he cooks.This book is almost like a rehash of "Norwegian Wood." Tsukuru Tazaki in this book is 36 and Toru Watanabe in Norwegian is 37 and they look back to the events that happen in their past particularly during their adolescent period.
I was busy and fell in love with a couple of other girls before marrying my wife ten years after the last time I left the island.What I am trying to say here is that I felt pain when I heard the news that morning.
Tsukuru Tazaki is a 36-year-old man whose defining features are his love of train stations and the fact his four best friends all ceased to speak to him during his second year at university: "Like Jonah in the belly of the whale, Tsukuru had fallen into the bowels of death, one untold day after another, lost in a dark, stagnant void." He now lives in Tokyo and has started seeing a new girlfriend, Sara Kimoto, who works at a travel agency.
در سال 1995 میلادی، دوستان نزدیک سوکورو، که هم‌کلاسی‌های دبیرستانیش بودند، ناگهان بدون هیچ توضیحی، تماس خود را با او بریده‌ اند، و این رخداد بر روحیه ی سوکورو، تاثیر بسیار بر جای بگذاشته است.
I was fascinated with the protagonist's way of thinking and dealing reasonably with life, and furthermore it was a pleasure to once again read a story set in Japan because it inevitably intertwines with Japanese culture.
Regrettably, this book didn't come with a lot of magical realism which is, however, a common trait of Murakami's.
I didn't miss any, though, because the story worked so well on its own, and I think that if you kind of like Murakami but don't agree with magical realism, this would be just the book for you.
"Colorless Tsukuru Tazaki and His Years of Pilgrimage" is written under a complete different ambiance, yet it possesses certain Murakami essentials I begin to recognize in his style and probably every other Murakami fan is already completely familiar with: The jazz, the symbolic dreams, the sexual fantasies, those metaphysical experiences, a voyage to the subconscious mind of the character.
For me, "Colorless Tsukuru Tazaki and His Years of Pilgrimage" more than a reading was like enjoying a soft melody, not over-thinking or analyzing it, just relaxing and letting myself experience Tsukuru's mixture of feelings and thoughts.
Masterstroke in all in Murakami’s books is the mysteries which keep the plot moving, Colorless Tsukuru Tazaki and His Years of Pilgrimage is no exception and it’s fast moving really an inverse to 1Q84.Parallel world There is no “Parallel world” in this book but still we can see a small door which is getting opening towards alternate reality (which is very much real), through the story narrated by Jr.Haida about Midorikawa “The Jazz Pianist” about the token of death and mysterious bag which kept of the top of piano.
There are so many things which can be discussed about Colorless Tsukuru Tazaki and His Years of Pilgrimage.
Coming as it does in the wake of 1Q84, Colorless Tsukuru Tazaki and his Years of Pilgrimage was always going to be a smaller Murakami novel.
In Colorless, Murakami populates the story with dialogue that feel flippant, passages that are extraneous under the guise of profundity, and some of the worst literary device use the world has ever seen.But you don’t believe me?
I for one, have expended my tolerance for the subject in Murakami’s hands after initially processing 1Q84’s sexual deviance as a novel type of story.
I have a stack of 20+ novels that I’ve been waiting to get into, and instead I spent my time reading this book.
Even as I found my enthusiasm waning, I still thought there would come a point where the author would pull all the pieces together and I would have this sudden a-ha moment -- I was really looking forward to that.
. .Nope.I'm actually left wondering if Murakami is more akin to "The Emperor's New Clothes", where everyone says how deep and amazing he is in order to hide the fact that they really don't get what all the fuss is about either.There was absolutely nothing I liked about this book -- the plot was dry, so so dry, and the characters not even remotely likable.
Instead, we get a story of a man frozen in his development due to an abandonment by a special circle of friends from school.
And Tsukuru didn’t dare ask.He recounts what was so wonderful about his circle with four friends in high school in Nagoya, all involved with him in volunteer projects in the community.
At times his actions in his dreams about his friends makes him wonder if he did something awful that he has somehow forgotten.
It makes for a wonderful overlay to the story.
Anybody who’s lost anybody is naturally bound to feel some sense of loss but due to Tsukuru’s circumstances, being that he was an introvert he didn’t easily make friends and that the five of them formed a group so close and complete, their sudden disappearance in his life opened a chasm of sorrow so dark and deep that he never really got out of it.
He needed it, Tsukuru suffered from disconnect and isolation, in part due to his timid character, but chiefly because he could never let people into his life again lest they hurt him like his old friends did.
It is Sara that (view spoiler)[pushes him to solve this issue, for it has left marks on his love life and general ambitions (though he *is* stasfied with his work life) (hide spoiler)].A smaller incident after this is a smaller version of the past incident, one that happened close to it: he got another friend, Haida, who introduced him to some superb music, of which Liszt's three-suite set "Years Of Pilgrimage" (played by Lazar Berman) is particularly important for the books plot, and could serve as its main music, in my opinion (Tsukuru certainly likes it).
So Murakami, this time without the magic realism, tells us why Tsukuru was rejected and we watch to see if color will come back into his life.That the plot is stupid doesn't matter much, if you like Murakami.
He even picked the perfect music for sitting in a train station and watching the people come and go, until the night comes; or for taking a first vacation, to Finland in the Summer, when night never comes.
Instead, I put Iron & Wine's "Walking Far From Home" (the album version : http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fg5403...
; which is better than the live version: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CPgGm7...) on repeat, which is the perfect music to listen to when you don't have to go to work anymore.
می شود روی خاطره ها سرپوش گذاشت ولی تاریخ را نمی شود قایم کردسوکورو تازاکی یک آدم فوق العاده رنگ دار
می شود روی خاطره ها سرپوش گذاشت ولی تاریخ را نمی شود قایم کردسوکورو تازاکی یک آدم فوق العاده رنگ دار
However, all this also means it would be a great work to get started with if you're not comfortable with having to pick up on the little cues in novels yourself or are at a loss as to how to analyze novels, or if it is your first Murakami book and you don't want to feel too overwhelmed.For those who have been a consistent reader of Murakami (and for those who read "Norwegian Wood" in their early 20s), it would also feel like you've come full circle - the earlier sentiments explored in "Norwegian Wood" are still there, just updated and aged (as the characters have) with the patina of the writer himself and the characters (who aren't the exact same people but still have enough similarities to be reminded of their counterparts in "Norwegian..").*read the version translated into korean.
Esta vez, Murakami opta por una historia más realista, sin apenas fantasía, salvo algunos sueños un tanto irreales del protagonista.La trama, narrada en tercera persona, tiene como protagonista a Tsukuru Tazaki, un hombre anodino que en su juventud fue repudiado por sus cuatro mejores amigos, con los cuales formaba una pandilla inseparable.
Parece que ha llegado la hora de poner orden en su vida y arreglar los asuntos de su pasado.En ‘Los años de peregrinación del chico sin color’ nos encontramos con aspectos habituales en Murakami, como son la música, la comida, la soledad y esa mezcla entre lo onírico y lo real.
Πού πάνε όλες εκείνες οι νεανικές φιλίες, όταν μεγαλώνουμε; Γιατί χανόμαστε οι άνθρωποι; Γιατί πάντα καταλήγουμε να κουβαλάμε ένα κομμάτι από το πεθαμένο μας παρελθόν, κάτι που μας προκαλεί θλιμμένα χαμόγελα, όταν κοιτάμε παλιές, φωτογραφίες, σε σκονισμένα άλμπουμ, τότε που ακόμα υπήρχε το φιλμ και οι εικόνες των ξεχασμένων φίλων, τυπώνονταν σε χαρτί;Τί φταίξαμε; Τί έφταιξε; Υπάρχει σε όλα αυτά μια δόση ενοχής.
Εκεί όπου οι δαίμονες, ο ιαπωνικός κόσμος των πνευματων, που πάντα μου προκαλούσε τρόμο, μπορούν να πιαστούν από μια σκέψη και να ενσαρκωθούν στον πιο απαίσιο εφιάλτη.
Δεν μου αρέσει, αλλά το σέβομαι.Και πάντα χρειάζεται ένα ταξίδι, μια επιστροφή, για να μπορέσει κάποιος να αναμετρηθεί με τα αναπάντητα ερωτήματα του παρελθόντος.
"می توانی روی خاطره ها سرپوش بگذاری، یا چه می دانم، سرکوبشان کنی، ولی نمی توانی تاریخی را که این خاطرات را شکل داده پاک کنی.
بعد از دبیرستان سوکورو شهر خود را ترک می کند و برای ادامه تحصیل به توکیو می رود.
دوستی آن ها ادامه پیدا می کند تا این که ناگهان بعد از دو سال دوستانش به سوکورو اعلام می کنند که دیگر نمی خواهند او را ببینند.
سوکورو این طردشدگی را در سکوت می پذیرد و با آن که آن را بی رحمانه و بی دلیل می داند اما اعتراضی نمی کند.
However, it doesn’t hurt to know that the musical theme of the book is Listz’s Années de pèlerinage (Years of Pilgrimage), le mal du pays (Suite 1: Switzerland), especially as played by Lazar Berman.
It is a perfect metaphor for this book—elegant, melancholy, reflective, subtly captivating.“Le mal du pays…usually it is translated as ‘homesickness…’it’s more like ‘a groundless sadness called forth in a person’s heart by a pastoral landscape.’ It’s a hard expression to translate accurately.”The above is a splendid description for Tsukuru's state of mind, the homesickness a figurative symbol for the four friends from Nagoya, the Liszt piece a consummate harmony for the novel.
(I won't go into more detail here, I took up enough words on it in my review...) Fortunately, when I voiced this opinion (a little nervously - it’s a very popular book) not only did some people actually agree with me, but I was also overwhelmingly reassured that 1Q84 is not definitive of Murakami’s writing.
A little part of this is the sheet of stickers included with the book, designed based on elements in the story, and though this can be viewed cynically as a mere marketing gimmick, it’s a rather lovely one.
However, the main reason I would insist on forgoing the e-reader here is that this book is an experience that extends beyond reading the words on the page.
