https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23884.The_General_in_His_Labyrinth
It's the story of Simón Bolívar--he who liberated South America from Spanish colonial tyranny--and his retreat from public life just prior to his death.
It was 1816, however, when Bolivar manumitted the slaves of South America, including his own.)Depiction of Simón Bolívar in his final hours.We also meet his longtime, forebearing lover, Manuela Sáenz, and find her to be as formidable a character as the General himself.
The most serious rumor was that right under Urdaneta's nose she was promoting an armed rebellion to reestablish the absolute power of the General.So a beautifully written if dense narrative that satisfies on multiple levels.
El general en su laberinto = The General in His Labyrinth, Gabriel García MárquezThe General in His Labyrinth (original Spanish title: El general en su laberinto) is a 1989 dictator novel by Colombian writer and Nobel laureate Gabriel García Márquez.
It is a fictionalized account of the last seven months of Simón Bolívar, liberator and leader of Gran Colombia.
Breaking with the traditional heroic portrayal of Bolívar El Libertador (Spanish for "liberator"), García Márquez depicts a pathetic protagonist, a prematurely aged man who is physically ill and mentally exhausted.
کتاب از: «ژنرال بولیوار»، آزادیخواه مشهور امریکای جنوبی و لاتین، سخن میگوید، که کشور «بولیوی»، به افتخار او، چنین نام بر خود برگزیده، و پسندیده است.

So I realize that the act of reading is itself a commitment, an investment of time and energy, and it’s a shame we don’t have more opportunities for it.Still.The rest of the pity goes towards the smaller worlds in which people who don’t read fiction must live.
But let’s be honest here: I would never, ever pick up a non-fiction book about the history of South America.
I did read a fictional account of his last days as he journeyed into exile.So with The General in His Labyrinth, Gabriel García Márquez contributes to the closing of another massive gap in my knowledge of world history.
The story is about the last days of Simon Bolivar, the Liberator, as he took a 14-day cruise down the Rio Magdalena to the Caribbean, from whence he would ship out for Europe.
Even as death approaches, he is a remarkable man; and his letters fly all around South America and the Caribbean trying futilely to hold all the pieces together one last time.It was a kind of double sadness anticipating the death of this incredible conqueror, in the shadow of the death of Garcia Marquez, who wrote this book in 1989, a quarter of a century ago.
Follows the last few weeks and days of the life of Simon Bolivar as he surrenders political power and travels down the Magdalena River to the coast on his last journey.
While he travels there are reflections on his past, his role in the wars of independence against Spain and his political ambitions.
The failure of his political ambitions will allow him to be recast as a safe patriotic icon and the man seems to struggle against this, the fate of a person to be recast as an icon as soon as he is barely cold in his grave, as he is racked with ill-health on his final journey.
বলিভারকে বাইরের দুনিয়ায় আজ কে চেনে? অথচ একটি আসত মহাদেশকে মুকতি এনে দিয়েছিলেন তিনি - ঐতিহাসিক গুরুতবে লেনিন বা জরজ ওয়াশিংটনের চেয়ে কোন অংশে কম নয়। বহিরবিশবে তিনি বিসমৃত হলেও লযাটিন আমেরিকা তাকে মনে রেখেছে ঠিকই - বোধ করি এমন কোনো শহর বা গঞজ খুঁজে পাওয়া যাবে না যেখানে বলিভারের নামে একটি সড়ক বা চতবর বা সকুল বা হাসপাতাল নেই। একটি দেশ আছে তার নামে - বলিভিয়া। আর আছে একটি সুপরিচিত, সরবজনসবীকৃত ডাকনাম - "মহাতমা" বা "বঙগবনধু" যেমন - "এল লিবেরতাদোর", বা মুকতিদাতা।এই মহাদেশীয় আইকনকে নিয়ে না লিখলে হয়তো মহাদ

In fact, I'm tempted to ask in response: what story?People and places from the General's life are constantly evoked, but on this point I have two major critiques: first, the flashbacks are far too paltry (a page or two at most) to really generate any parallel - much less, compelling - storyline.
García Márquez often mentions the various "inconsistencies" in his life and loves, but that's a cheap way to add character depth.
If you're going to tell the stories that History forgot, a far more interesting tale would have been the imagined life of José Palacios, a former slave and the General's most loyal servant.
Apart from his vision for a united Latin America that would form the biggest country that would be "half of the world," his wars for integration, and his glories, no one cares to know about his end.Gabo had to do extensive reasearch for two years, contacting people from so many different walks of life to make this book about the general's final 14 days during the trip along the Magdalena River, as accurate as possible- he even had a university professor help him in figuring out all the days in which there was a full moon during those years...The book gives a totally different image of Simon Bolivar who is a hero to many and a villain to some.
I just loved the universe and the writing of this novel by Gabriel Garcia Marquez. The writer manages to be born in us full of images and takes us with her beautiful descriptions.
لا يهمّ هو أسطورةٌ على كلّ حال.من شابّ يافع لم يكن يأبه بالنضال تلقّى تعليمه بفرنسا إلى محرر لأمريكا الجنوبية من يدِ واحدةٍ من أعتى الإمبراطوريات على وجه الأرض حينها..
أسبانيا.وبين شراسة الأعداء وخيانة رفقاء ثورة التحرّر، طحنت السنين عظامه وأكلت لحمه وتملّم المرض من رئتيه فأصبح في آخر حياته شبه إنسان..
شبه ميّت..
تلقّى الطعنات من كلّ جانب..
حتى من جانب من تحرّروا على يديه..
ومات وهو في طريقهِ إلى المنفى إثر تخلّيه عن الرئاسة.مللتُ الروايةُ كونها مليئة فوق الاحتمال بالتفاصيل..
باعتقادي أن ترجمة الطبعةُ التي قرأتها على يد (محمد عبد المنعم جلال) سبباً في شعوري بتلك المتاهة..
Se trata de una novela histórica que recrea los últimos días de Simón Bolívar, uno de los principales líderes de los procesos de independencia política desarrollados en América del Sur en el primer cuarto del siglo XIX.Es el libro que menos me gusta de Gabriel García Márquez porque es un libro histórico.
An honest and compassionate tribute to a truly remarkable hero in the last days of his life.
44. The General in His Labyrinth by Gabriel García Márqueztranslation: 1990 by Edith Grossmanpublished: 1989format: 285 page paperbackacquired: Marchread: Aug 8-19rating: 3A novel based on the last several months of life of Simón Bolívar. After leading the liberation of much of South America from a Napoleon-dominated Spain, Bolívar became a dictatorial-like president of Greater Colombia, a country that included present-day Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador, Panama, northern Peru, western Guyana and n
After leading the liberation of much of South America from a Napoleon-dominated Spain, Bolívar became a dictatorial-like president of Greater Colombia, a country that included present-day Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador, Panama, northern Peru, western Guyana and northwest Brazil.
His country, considered one of the most powerful in the world by John Quincy Adams, quickly dissolved.Bolívar is considered a hero throughout South America, which is apparently why there was a lot of outrage when this book was published.
I know very little about South America or Bolívar.
ترجمة صالح العلماني تستحق ٤ او ٥ نجوم ولكن الرواية مملّة جدا وفيها الكثير والكثير من التفاصيل، وليس فيها ما يغري لمتابعة القراءة. هذه قراءتي الثالثة لماركيز والاخيرة.ه
رواية على شكل سيرة ذاتية مكثفة للأيام الأخيرة للجنرال سيمون بوليفار الزعيم الذي كان يحلم بتوحيد أمريكا الجنوبية وقاتل ببسالة لتحريرها من الاحتلال الإسباني حتى أطلق عليه لقب المحرر ،، الأيام الأخيرة بكل ما تحمله من إحباطات وأحلام وإنهاك وأمراض حتى لحظة الاحتضار ،، ماركيز هنا يكتب رواية تاريخية مستلهمة من آلاف الأوراق والحكايات والكتب والأحداث كما ذكر في نهاية الكتاب وجاء العمل ليحكي بدقة وغزارة تلك المتاهة التي كان يعيش فيها بوليفار آخر مرحلة من حياته مستذكراً ومحملاً بالكثير من المعارك والوقائع والأماني

I think the other characters are pretty well realized and you can feel their own internal tension, these younger soldiers and the endless card games, torn between wanting to flee, to go fight, versus continuing to stay with him, especially since they knew to do either action would be to witness history--though for men of action, you can tell it grew tedious.
I feel it has a nice balance of all these different elements--Bolivar is the focus but the book is about more than just him.Something that was lost to me the first time was the role of Manuela, and the other women.
Ky është libri i katërt i Marquez-it që kam lexuar.
E kam shijuar shumë për stilin dhe ndërtimin e një personazhi në mënyrë aq të plotë, sa nuk ke zgjedhje tjetër veç admirimit kundrejt tij.
Një roman me tipare historike, por që rrëshqet në mënyrë të heshtur dhe pa bujë drejt një drame (tragjedie!) të shpirtit njerëzor, të gërryer pa mëshirë nga tradhëtitë, humbjet dhe mbi të gjitha prej shkëlqimit të humbur.
Prekja e trajtës më të fshehur të një embleme si Simon Bolivari, asaj që ai u pëpoq aq shumë ta fshehë pas shpërthimeve të papërmbajtshme dhe kllapive të tuberkulozit.
Se leerá estúpido que siendo un libro tan famoso solo haya despertado mi interés en leerlo porque Green lo mencionara en una de sus obras.
Anteriormente había leído al Gabo y había quedado prendada de su escritura.
Al principio no lo hice por placer sino obligaciones de la carrera.
Este libro es una obra hermosa, realmente aprendí desde esta perspectiva cosas que desconocía acerca de nuestro General.
Me quedara tatuada por los siglos de los siglos su ultima frase: "y como voy a salir de este laberinto.." Leanlo y disfruten un rato de una escritura realmente única.
و من مثلُ ماركيز ؟!!التاريخ يتكلّم هنا و بلادٌ عانت قرونا من الأشلاء و الحروب و الهويّة , و " البطل " الذي يتجسّد في الحروف كإنسان منعتق من أسطورته , يترك حروبه على خصر أنثاه , ويرشّ ماء الكولونيا بينما يتذكّر آخر من حاول اغتياله , و يتمرجح على وقع الأحلام التي تتصارع كآلهة اليونان ...جميلة هذه الرحلة بتفاصيلها و قفزاتها عبر الزمن و النهر الذي تمشي فيه البلاد و ذاكرة البشر حوله بما تحويه من شعارات بطولة و أمجاد و عار و حروب و دم و أحقاد و أحلام و بنادق و وطن و نساء ...
آه كانت ثلاث ليال ممتعة مع الجنرال
Una novela muy atractiva, especialmente recomendada para los lectores interesados en la reflexión histórica.
El personaje de Simón Bolívar es complejo, lleno de contradicciones, sujeto al horror del deterioro físico y mental y a las desilusiones de la incertidumbre.
Es una lectura ágil y divertida que, si bien por momentos mueve a risa por la exaltación de los pormenores de la enfermedad y de la vida cotidiana, también mueve a la identificación empática con aquel ser que ve cómo las limitaciones de la condición humana le arrebatan poco a poco sus sueños.
Un estilo narrativo que, personalmente, me recuerda el humorismo pirandelliano.
Bolivar's regrets are not so much about his political decisions, but more about what life had been like if he was not General Bolivar, if he was not the liberator of South America, if he was not on of the greatest revolutionaries the world has ever seen, worshipped and reviled, but if had remained simply Simon Bolivar, Creole land-owner, a disaffected but entirely anonymous aristocrat who concentrated or farming rather than fighting, if he had been, just as Marquez depicts him, just a man, rather than a myth.
El hombre queda entonces mirando las ruinas de su sueño, con la salud física y mental ya desgastadas, su vida huyendo de él cada vez más rápido, y se da cuenta de que todo su trabajo, aunque tendrá un valor moral y simbólico gigantesco, no valió para nada, nadie en su momento lo aprecia, y todos quieren que él se vaya de una vez por todas lejos para poder olvidarse de él, porque ya no lo quieren allí.De forma mucho más general y breve, es la historia de un hombre que toda su vida luchó por mantener el control de las cosas que le interesaban y que al final pierde control sobre todo, desde sus planes y su vida hasta su vejiga.Como es de esperar, no es un libro para leer a la ligera, ni mucho menos en un estado de ánimo depresivo.
"One Hundred Years of Solitude" is at #2 on my All-Time Top 5 Books and I like magical realism.
Unfortunately, that is where "The General ..." parts ways with me.
That's not surprising, given that Garcia Marquez worked as a reporter in his early days, but this book could have been so much more if it followed in the wake of his other works, in short, it could have been magical.
Instead, it becomes a tedious recitation of the actions General Bolivar did in his journey from his town to the coast on his way to exile.
Though he worked to expel the colonialist and maintain a united south American state, “the golden dream of continental unity” (17), naysayers and doubting thomases “accused him of being the secret instigator of the military uprising in a belated effort to regain power” (13); he was accused of “wanting to be president for life” (id.).
He also believed, interestingly, that “the fatal blow to integration was inviting the United States to the Congress of Panama” (188).In contrast with his political management, Bolivar's personal corporeal management proceeds in the absence of expert advice, insofar as “he had always been opposed to medical science” (16), preferring instead French home remedies that his servant “carried wherever he went as an oracle for understanding and curing any disturbance of body and soul” (17).
Εννοείται πως τα βιβλία είναι τα καλύτερα διότι σου αφήνουν την αίσθηση και την επιλογή να φτιάξεις εσύ όπως θες στο μυαλό σου τα πάντα.Στην αρχή,έως τη μέση "μετά το σταμάτησα" μου φάνηκε λίγο βαρετό και αδιάφορο,σε αρκετά σημεία,και με λεπτομέρειες ανούσιες.Και επειδή βρίσκεται στη κατοχή μας και το "έρωτας στα χρόνια της χολέρας" κάποια στιγμή θα τελειώσουμε με αυτό,το κύκλο,χωρίς αμφιβολία αυτού του μεγάλου και νομπελίστα λογοτέχνη.

All I knew was that it was written by Colombia’s third most famous export, the eminent Gabriel Garcia Marquez, (Shakira can suck it, she’s #4) and was a paean to the man who wrested South America from the hands of its Spanish Colonial masters, Simon Bolivar.
This wouldn’t be the book I recommend to those new to Gabriel Garcia Marquez as an author, though anyone who is interested in either Latin American history will find this an interesting look at the last days of the Colombian George Washington, the man who freed half of a continent from its Spanish masters.
