https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17675462-the-raven-boys
I am that cliche about the cat and curiosity.It's sad because I love a good paranormal tale, but I don't know if I'm just getting too old and cynical to read these supernatural romancey teen books.
But no, of course not, because this book is largely about the will they/won’t they, which is also likely what the following novels are about too.There is some good writing at points and a decent ghostly atmosphere; though I'm still not convinced two stars isn't leaning towards generous.
The usual relationship/love drama aside, I found it so difficult to like these characters.
Reread in 2017:I loved it so much more the second time!
Every character was unique and fleshed out and I fell in love with them all!
Can't wait to pick up The Dream Thieves!Book 34/100 of 2015:I really enjoyed this!
I came into this book not knowing anything about the plot, just that there were some weirdly named kids and something about ravens.
It was a little difficult to get into as I had no idea where the plot would go and it was just overall pretty slow.
I will definitely be picking up the next book sometime in the near future.
i'm so glad i re-read this before carrying on with the series! there were so many things that i had forgotten. SO MANY IMPORTANT THINGS. plus it was fun to re-read, because of all the foreshadowing. SO MCUH FORESHADOWING I TELL YA. i'm reading the series as apart of the missmareadalong & there is still time to join in if you want to read the raven cycle this month!! more info here: https://youtu.be/43yx_rDnNIc plus there are lots of GIVEAWAAAAYS happening! more info for that here: https://youtu.be/KOMi6lHEV7o
Her older cousin Orla always began to hum her favorite song a few minutes before it came on the radio.”This book is mainly told from the perspectives of Gansey and Blue.Gansey is on a quest that has encompassed three of his closest friends: Adam, the scholarship student who resents all the privilege around him; Ronan, the fierce soul who ranges from anger to despair; and Noah, the taciturn watcher of the four, who notices many things but says very little.I love books where we get multiple main characters.But it took me a few chapters to get used to Gansey’s voice.
“You're looking for a god. Didn't you suspect that there was also a devil?”  Instant new favorite!!Psychics. Ghosts. Spirits. Sleeping kings. Legends. Enchanted forests. And a cursed romance. Maggie Stiefvater is an artist, ladies and gentlemen!  “Blue Sargent had forgotten how many times she'd been told that she would kill her true love.”  I was spellbound by this hauntingly beautiful paranormal tale since that very first sentence. Maggie Stiefvater narrates the story of how Blue Sargent met
Maggie Stiefvater narrates the story of how Blue Sargent met four strange boys, four boys she'd never expected she'd like or trust, but somehow she was caught in the middle of Richard Gansey's treasure hunt and she was the catalyst of every event that unfolded afterwards.
The paranormal element was strong and gave me goosebumps, the characters' backrounds misty, and I couldn't help but inhale every word and feel the physical need to be part of the story, to join Blue and the Raven Boys in their adventures!
She wasn't interested in telling other people's futures. She was interested in going out and finding her own. You know that feeling when a book is so perfect that you just want to shove it down everyone's throat? Ok. Good. I thought I was the only one.     I adored this book. I've already read this series twice and am itching to go through them again. So, begs the question,  what is this book about?  And that's where I start to stumble. There's just too much, I could never adequately describe i
Ronan came out a harsher, crueler version of himself after his father died and is struggling to keep his head above water.
BUT the love isn't your typical romantic ooey-gooey teen romance.
"You missed World Hist."“Did you get notes for me?""No", Ronan replied,"I thought you were dead in a ditch.” 
Blue tried not to look at Gansey's boat shoes; she felt better about him as a person if she pretended he wasn't wearing them.
Adam asked, “What is he doing, anyway?”“Peeing.”“Trust Lynch to deface a place like this five minutes after getting here.”“Deface?
Honestly, if anyone asks me what to read next...
READ #4: May 2018: It has come to my attention that I am still hopelessly in love with all my Raven Boys. Still. Always. And I would like to put out that (a) Maggie Stiefvater has so much freaking foreshadow perfection that it's phenomenal, and (b) Ronan got punched by Adam's dad AND Welk FOR THE SAKE OF ADAM. This damaged thorn bush named Ronan Lynch afjdklsad. I'm so dead. Read #3: Oct 2017: Yeah I mean...I'm just Raven cycle trash by this point and my heart is full of LOVE AND HURT for this
And I would like to put out that (a) Maggie Stiefvater has so much freaking foreshadow perfection that it's phenomenal, and (b) Ronan got punched by Adam's dad AND Welk FOR THE SAKE OF ADAM.
Ahem.Other Reasons The Raven Boys Are The World's Greatest Gift:• Did I mention it's like 100% character driven?
Like, I'm never in love with ALL the characters.
OMG.• I just cannot love the writing and the characters and the story enough.
DEM RAVEN BOYS.• I am in love with 1 or 4 of them.• Okay not really, because Adam is still got too much baggage and he needs to nope.• BUT THE REST YES.
Reread on audio. I didn't care much for the audio but still love the book ❤MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading ListI absolutely loved this book! But, here's the thing, I didn't know what was going on through half of the book and I'm still a little up in the air with what all they were doing. I just know that I FREAKING LOVED IT AND CAN'T WAIT FOR MORE! YEAH.... I'M A LITTLE CRAZY! LOLOkay so there are these four rich boys that go to the rich school, Aglionby. They are the main characters. We have
But, here's the thing, I didn't know what was going on through half of the book and I'm still a little up in the air with what all they were doing.
We have Gansey, Adam, Ronan and Noah, they are called the raven boys and I forgot while.
:-DSo like the Gansey boy is obsessed with ley lines and this dude named Glendower.
And Blue is a part of the Raven boys now and they get into all kinds of stuff that I won't even say because I know there are more people out there like me that hasn't started reading these books yet.
Catherine directed a couple of episodes.
When there’s a god, there’s always a legion of devils.”When I first read The Raven Boys a year ago, I never thought I would fall in love with it, and then all over again and again and again.
In fact, I expected an average teen fantasy novel, but Maggie Stiefvater did better than that.
A story so magical and incredible, I was bewitched from start to end.I loved the Wolves of Mercy Falls.
But with this series Maggie Stiefvater wrote a way into my heart.Find more of my books on Instagram
OK. SO THIS BOOK WAS PRETTY GREAT.The book was very slow-moving for the first half or so, but I always found myself drawn in by the beautiful writing and the fabulous characters. This story is first and foremost about the characters, and I completely adored the friendship between the boys, and between Blue and the boys later on. Going into this, I thought it was going to be told solely from Blue's POV, and I am so glad that it wasn't. Getting to know the boys before they got to know Blue was a real treat.
On a cold night every spring, sixteen-year-old Blue and her psychic mother wait in a churchyard for the dead to arrive. Her mother is usually the one who sees the spirits of people who will die within the next twelve months, but this year, Blue herself is startled by the sad, desperate sight of a boy named Gansey falling to his knees before her. "There are only two reasons a non-seer would see a spirit on St. Mark's Eve, Blue. Either you're his true love...or you killed him." With those chilling
This story, which seems to be loosely based on a real Welsh folk tale, is haunted by ghosts, invigorated by a fantastical search for a legendary sleeping Welsh king, and tinged with the frightening dark beauty of centuries-old magic.While the story starts out from Blue's point of view, the book is actually told in third-party omniscient style, a welcome change from the author's usual first person perspective, and a necessary one given the many characters we get to know, particularly the raven boys.
Easily the best book I've read all year. I've never read a book before where I love every single character equally. Blue: she is everything i aspire to be and i just want to be bffs with herGansey: yes plz Ronan: he's so scary and angry but you just know he secretly loves to watch cute cat videos Adam: he must be wrapped in a warm blanket and protected at all costsNoah: my precious cinnamon bun
The only character I like is Ronan.
very ironic.It might be time for Maggie Stiefvater and I to part ways.Truly, there's nothing actually ''wrong'' with her style; it simply does not appeal to me.
But this is the kind of story that I feel would be read in a better way if written in the 1st person point of view instead of 3rd.
There is this possibility to feel connected to the protagonists...
but a slim and invisible barrier seems to continuously block that connection.
Even for Ronan.
I may ''like'' him and I might've enjoyed reading about him, but I surely don't ''love'' his character.
4 Stars!What an enjoyable read this was.Blue, a teenage girl lives in a house full of psychic aunts and her mother.
(Nice....)Blue has no psychic ability, but she sees the spirit of a boy named Gansey.
She lives in a small town, argues with her mother and she hates going to school.Blue has knows since she was a child what will happen to her when she falls in love, and I don't think anyone would want that.
Blue knows that her love life can't end well because her mother and her aunts are psychic.
He was a man on a mission, a mission to quickly identify the YA Series section, track down the YA SER RAV label on the spine of The Raven Boys, and get the heck outta that room before anyone knew I (I mean he) was there.
Then I walked around the library looking for any other book to put on top of The Raven Boys so no one would notice what I was holding, which was the sole reason I even drove to the library in the first place.
It has an interesting starting point and the story is fun.
There is some cool paranormal stuff, too.
I put the second book in the series on hold at the library already.
I’m not one of those illogical psychos who rates a book anything other than five stars while screaming “ABSOLUTELY PERFECT I LOVED IT” through a megaphone.)Complaint numéro un: I don’t like Ronan.
(I feel like it’s one of the two, because the reviews I’ve skimmed have been Adam fangirl-y or Ronan fangirl-y, but I haven’t seen any Gansey love.)Gansey is so charming and such a great friend and he CARES ABOUT PEOPLE SO MUCH.
"What happened was they drove to Harry’s and... Gansey ordered flavors of gelato until the table wouldn’t hold any more bowls and Ronan convinced the staff to turn the overhead speakers up and Blue laughed for the first time at something Gansey said and they were loud and triumphant and kings of Henrietta, because they’d found the ley line and because it was starting, it was starting.” (Artwork by Static)There was so much more to this book. What it was: a group of kids searching for a dead wels
What it was: a group of kids searching for a dead welsh king What we didn't know we needed in life:  a group of kids searching for a dead welsh king What we got: a more than useless but frustratingly lovable orange car that drove a dead boy, a sarcastic asshole, a cinnamon role, a girl with a heart of sensible gold and Richard 'Dick' Gansey III.
The only thing I'm going to start by saying is that the first half went a bit too slow for my liking, but straight after the halfway mark, I was so drawn in, if someone took the book out of my hand- I could have cut a bitch.
”He felt raw: the chronicle of his fiercest desire stripped from him by force.”After finishing “The Raven Boys” I have about a thousand of questions, the most pressing one however is the following:  Why did I wait so long to read this freaking awesome book??? I mean seriously!!?? What’s wrong with me!? How could I survive without knowing about “The Raven Cycle”?! I loved this book! It was so magical and mysterious and all the characters were so unique and well developed! What I loved the most wa
*lol* I really don’t know how he’s going to deal with Adam’s betrayal and I can’t wait to find out in the next book!
I’m really curious how Blue’s character is going to develop and I can’t wait to get to know her even better!Adam:”Unlike Ronan, Adam’s Aglionby sweater was secondhand, but he’d taken great care to be certain it was impeccable.
I swear there were so many moments between Adam and Ronan and if they don’t get together in one of those four books I’m going to cry a freaking ocean!!
Well, I will anyway.This book has it all:The best characters.Maggie (I feel like we're on a first name basis) doesn't neglect developing any of the characters.
And all of the feelings/The first time I read this book I gave it 4 stars, but this book is like a fine wine; it gets better with age.
I don't even think that metaphor works, but I don't care because I can't write as well as Maggie anyway and you need to go read this book now.
I'm finally submitting to peer pressure.
Todo el libro me gustó muchísimo... con excepción de los últimos capítulos. Me confundieron bastante, pero no sólo eso... el "conflicto final" no me emocionó nada, lo sentí flojo.PERO en sí me gustaron bastante los personajes y claro que seguiré leyendo la saga. La historia me parece original y muy mística, tiene ese aire mágico que me encanta leer.
This book is in my top favorites list. Kinda wished I would've read it sooner because it had the perfect blend of magic, friendship, bad guys that should be either shot or kicked in a hole somewhere remote, unforgettable characters (main characters or not) and a awesome story plot, that didn't get off track. My absolute favorite character, even though he wasn't the main male character, is Ronan Lynch. It was love at first sarcastic comment.Really can't wait to read the rest of this series and hopefully they're as good as or better than this one.
Review with my funny face? http://youtu.be/mZyzt0qw7tgI enjoyed the hell out of this book. At one point, and I shit you not, I literally yelled "FUN!". Don't worry I was in my bedroom so no side eye whatsoever.I was simply enthralled.I've seen people said so and so is an 'atmospheric book' and I have never truly understood what they meant before. Until i picked this up. The Raven Boys was the definition of  ambien and mystery . And I was simply lost to hours of intensely joyful read.I got so inv
Don't worry I was in my bedroom so no side eye whatsoever.I was simply enthralled.I've seen people said so and so is an 'atmospheric book' and I have never truly understood what they meant before.
. And I was simply lost to hours of intensely joyful read.I got so invested in these characters: I could read and read and read their stories.
Blue, Gansey, Adam, Ronan, Noah - the most adorable and emotionally-layered gang I ever got to know.
The boys were already good friends from school yet when their gang expanded to include Blue, it was done so seamlessly almost like it was supposed to happen all along.
I just loved Blue.
Rating: 4.5 stars
Raven Boys turns out to be more interesting that I thought it would be.I was reluctant to start this series, not only that most of the hyped YA series always disappointed me, this one also seems like a book written specifically for girls.
This means there are actually more people from my friend list that already read and rated the book, I can’t even see anyone on my friend list that put it on their “TBR” on the front page and this is coming from someone’s friend list that consists mostly of adult fantasy fans.
4.5 Really really liked this!
This book is why I give authors second, third, and sometimes even fourth chances (*cough* Colleen Hoover *cough*).
I mean, come on, hints of a love triangle, all that bullshit about fate (which, sorry, not sorry, I don't believe in), and a bunch of spoiled, mysterious rich boys (hmmm...where have I seen that theme a million times before?
One last gripe, since this is something that needs to be addressed in pretty much every book set in modern times: there is little to no representation of diversity or the lgbt+ community in here.
I have to praise the writing again, it’s really that great because Raven Boys is the kind of book that deserves a slow, careful read to really connect the dots.
Not just for character development but for the plot as a whole, every time there’s a new twist I can always think back to something I read previously and say to myself, oh yeah, I see what Stiefvater did there.For such a brilliant book, the only thing that bothers me is how much Raven Boys ends up feeling more like it’s setting up sequels than being amazing in its own right.
The weirdness is only beginning, though, because Blue's paths will soon cross with Gansey's in his search for a dead king and magic, and she will be wrapped up into a whirlwind adventure even her psychic family couldn't have prepared her for.---ALL OF THE STARS FOREVER AND EVER AMENSeriously you guys, how did I not pick this book up sooner?!
I feel so sorry for her about the fact that she's the only one in her family who isn't a psychic, but I love her little "amplifier" ordeal and her sass and witticisms are fantastic.
Re-read 10/2/18: Okay so I really love the setting and the tone and (most of) the characters but I CANNOT for the life of me wrap my mind around the “plot” of this damn book. I didn’t hate it but jfc NOTHING MAKES SENSE DON’T @ ME 7/15/15: Me the entire time I was reading this: ?????????????????????? (but in a good way, u feel me)
