https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156377.The_Elephant_Man
Beautiful, brilliant and moving, The Elephant Man play by Bernard Pomerance is a sensitive look into John Merrick's mind, what his thoughts and feelings might have been.
A famous actress, Mrs. Kendal, is asked by the doctor, Treves to meet MerrickTREVES: I am convinced they (women) are the key to retrieving him from his exclusion.
I mean, unlike most women, you don't give in, you are trained to hide your true feelings and assume others.Mrs.Kendal: You mean unlike most women I am famous for it, that is really all.

دوستانِ گرانقدر، داستان این کتاب برگرفته از زندگیِ مردی انگلیسی به نامِ جوزف مریک میباشد که ما در داستان او را با نامِ <جان مریک> میشناسیم و نمایشنامهٔ این زندگیِ غمناک، در 21 پرده نگاشته شده استجان مریک، 21 سال دارد و به دلیلِ یک بیماری و سندرمِ ناشناخته، سرِ بسیار بزرگی دارد و یکی از دست و پاهایِ او نیز بسیار بزرگ است.. پوستش ضخیم است و زگیلهایِ بزرگی بر روی پوستش دیده میشود و استخوانهای بدن و سرش نیز برآمدگی های زیادی دارد... مردم در موردِ او سخنهای ضد و نقیض و خزعبلاتِ زیادی میگویند، ب
مردم در موردِ او سخنهای ضد و نقیض و خزعبلاتِ زیادی میگویند، برخی میگویند که مادرش موردِ تجاوزِ یک فیل قرار گرفته است!!!
شخصیتهایِ هنری و بازیگرِ مشهورِ تئاتر <بانو کندل> و حتی شاهدختِ ولز نیز به دیدنِ او آمده و نامه ای از ملکه ویکتوریا برایِ سپاس و ستایش از مدیرانِ بیمارستان و هدیه ای از سویِ ملکه برایِ جان مریک می آورد‎همه چیز برایِ جان به خوبی پیش میرود، تا آنکه عده ای موجودِ پست و آزاردهنده، سبب میشوند تا مدیرِ دوره گردِ سیرک یعنی بایت، به اتاقِ جان مریک وارد شده و او را از بیمارستان دزدیده و با خود از انگلستان خارج کند‎عزیزانم، بهتر است خودتان این داستان را خوانده و از سرانجامِ جان مریک و زندگیِ تلخِ او، آگاه شوید---------------------------------------------‎امیدوارم این ریویو در جهتِ آشنایی با این کتاب، کافی و مفید بوده باشه‎<پیروز باشید و ایرانی>
Because I couldn't find a way to steal away from work to go see Bradley Cooper act in this play, I bought a copy to read in the hopes I could just imagine how he might translate the role of Joseph Merrick, the Elephant Man whose undiagnosed medical condition disfigured his face and body so horribly.
Treves later says: "Yet he makes all of us think he is deeply like ourselves.
In the last scene of the play, the administrator for The London Hospital is reading his report to the investors about the death of Merrick.
He was able to let the reader slip into the life of John Merrick (The Elephant Man) and have the reader believe that they were visiting him themselves.
Throughout the piece, one is left begging for the John Merrick to experience the best of a life, for as his condition might depress him, it also has the potential to kill him.
One is left to really embrace the fact that we are lucky to have not gone through what John Merrick himself had endured.
This indeed was based on a purely true story, and after seeing the movie as well, I am left adorned by The Elephant Man.
Before my last year's trip to London, I somehow failed to check the theater schedule, and on a bus tour I had an incredible sinking feeling when I spotted the theater with The Elephant Man sign.
(1980) (whose production company ended up being sued because of the similar plot to Pomerance's play), Pomerance's The Elephant Man shows Merrick as the victim of patronizing Treves, and as the center of attention of his high society acquaintances who lavish him with gifts, but don't seem to be interested in him as a person.
The Elephant Man is based on a powerful tale about Joseph Carey Merrick, with the help of a famous surgeon John regains his dignity after years of being a side-show freak. Although I have not read this play by Bernard Pomerance I had the pleasure of seeing this rendition at a local theatrical playhouse. A true story about being different, seeing beauty within people and finding happiness when everything around is grim. Heartwrenching!
The best line of the entire play, "...'Sometimes I think my head is so big because it is so full of dreams.' When dreams can't get out, he believes, something strange must happen." -MerrickAh, the Elephant Man exists in a morally exalted state of contemplation, pain, and reverie.
As he questions the justice of man's habits and actions, he "drops flare" on societies warped and accepted modes & customs.
The dialogue is terse and tethers the reader to The Elephant Man's nature, his huge heart & sensitivities, for example, making the idea of a benevolent God seem natural & possible despite illusions of the contrary.i
A great play. This one comes down to how well it is performed. The play itself is wonderfully written, but leaves a lot of room for directors input. With the right director and cast, this is a moving play on all levels.
Points beautifully to the fact that every one of us is human beneath our skin.
I would love to see this live. John Merrick's story is one of heartbreak with the longing to connect.
Having worked with the script (playing the character of Frederick Treves), I found that the language and stage direction easily led to the development of the character - as well as to a finished play that affected the audience and transmitted the messages of the play to the audience.To those readers who enjoy reading scripts, I highly recommend this one.
However, I soon realised that what the writer meant to explain was what I would write as "First chance I had to bathe regular ...ly." - emphasising Merrick's speech impediment.If you are not a reader of scripts, I highly recommend the viewing of a Production of The Elephant Man as soon as the opportunity arises.
Last year, I finally watched the David Lynch film; and as I did with a few other movies last year, thought I would also read the book.
However, then I learned that the play had no connection with Lynch's film other than the subject matter, so I put it off.
Felt like a fair trade.It's interesting seeing the differences in interpretation between Pomerance and Lynch.
I'll eventually read the actual published history that Treves wrote (along with Montagu's book, both mentioned in the play's introductory note) which inspired Pomerance to write this play.
Moving, heartbreaking, inspirational and a lovely, lovely read!
I have never been so engaged with a script as much as I was with The Elephant Man. This story is about Joseph Merrick, an individual with hideous deformities who's been dubbed by his 'owner' Freddie Jones, a freak show organizer that dehumanizes and uses Merrick merely as a source of income.
Merrick gets rescued by Dr. Frederick Treves, a surgeon who helps him escape the freak show and Jones.
I must say, I had to hold my tears back during some parts; it's been such a tough story to digest, but definitely a lovely one that I will re-read!
A disfigured English man from the late 1800's is sheltered by a doctor who discovers him trying to make money as a freak show attraction. Society embraces him and he becomes a chance for people to reflect on their own lives. A short play on a fairly well-known topic, I liked the insights that people derived from the interaction with the protagonist. The issue of how and who "views" the oddity runs throughout and makes for a thoughtful experience. Recommend
Just as enjoyable as the movie! Sad story. 4.5 stars
John Merrick a courageous, strong and beautiful human being. A short sad life. Brilliant read, page turner, started and finished all in my lunch break. Keen to see the play now.
Available at BBC Radio 7. A seriously disfigured man is rescued from a Victorian freak show.
Bettie's Books
I remember seeing this movie as a kid when my family were able to afford premium channels on cable.
The short scenes barely hint at Merrick's life of discomfort and disease, and by the time he dies, we the readers are left wanting more, more background, more dialogue, more profundity.
Even after he sees a woman naked for the first time, his comments and the scene in general seem rushed and lacking the pathos it could have had.Overall, an okay play that almost forces the reader to go and rent the movie once again.
What is amazing about this play is that is is completely unsensationalistic.
The playwright specifies that the role of Merrick should be played without any prostheses, stating that the use of such would be distracting to the action and intent of the play.So, what is this play?
It is an exploration of Victorian England and the mores of the time.
It is an exploration of sensationalism.
It demonstrates the ways we use other people, especially famous or infamous people, as our mirrors, ascribing characteristics to them that probably aren't accurate because we really have no idea who they are.Definitely worth a read - or two.
Is reading a play cheating for the reading challenge? Yeah, well sue me. The David Lynch cinematic adaptation of this play is great but the play shows us the "deformities" of others, not just the grotesque John Merrick. It must be read carefully and is totally worth a reread. I'd be willing to see a production of this, especially since I have always been fascinated by stories of outcasts and freaks.
Mint színdarab, tökéletes, egy jobb feldolgozás megtekintése szinte kihagyhatatlan élmény. Mint könyv, igen soványka kis egyórás olvasmány - jó kiindulás, ha színház vagy színházi felvétel megtekintése előtt el akarod kezdeni az ismerkedést a történettel, de utána már nem nyújt sokat. Ellenben jó néhány drámával és színdarabbal nem biztos, hogy egyszer csak úgy kedvtelésből lekapnám a polcról és újraolvasnám.
A really interesting play! It asks what is normal, how are all of us grotesque, how do we use/abuse other people, how do we all make compromises in order to live in society, etc.I'll need to read it a few more times to wrap my head around it all, but one reading was all it took to make me decide to teach this play next year in AP Lit. My students can help me figure it all out!
An enjoyable read with some scorching lines. The pacing was awkward and a bit unclear with Merrick's life in the hospital. The idea that the hospital's sanitizing of Merrick didn't allow him the authentic human experience was saddening. Merrick was so hopeful at the beginning of his stay too, with his ideas about Romeo and Juliet and his naïvete. It's a quick read.
The dialogue and implications are important and influential in this play that I only had the pleasure to read and not see. So much can be said or not said in words and Pomerance uses each word with care and purpose. About the treatment and idea of the Other.Emotional. Thoughtful.
(Read when Ryan visited), easy to read play that still sparked many questions. The characters were distinctive, while working collectively to unfold the story of a man ostracized dude to ridiculous societal expectations of beauty.
A quick and affecting read - The play manages to stir sympathy and understanding without any overdramatics. Pomerance's deft and light style really elevate the work and leave a lot of room for theatre artists to play and impress.
Wow.
An excellent play - much more condensed than the movie, but a powerful discussion of perception, gaze, reflection, and charity (the motives of same).
