https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1769122.Das_siebte_Kreuz
The author describes with exquisite and humane detail the insidious beginnings of Hitler's rise in Germany, from the point of view of ordinary Germans.
The novel does have a hero--an escaped political prisoner by the name of George Heisler--but rather than being the focal point of the story, George, and the escape path he travels through this novel, are like the loom that the real story weaves itself around.
By the end I had had many chances to ask myself the question "what would you do in that situation?"Author Seghers was a Jew and a Communist who escaped Hitler's Germany, and published this novel in Mexico where she was in exile.
In Germany, before the War. Real Germans.
A shepherd, a paperhanger, a gardener's apprentice, a seamstress, a wife, friends and former girlfriends.Tell it subtly.
The wife who puts down her book, annoyed, when her husband comes home bringing trouble.
In Germany, before the War. A state of terror before the worst of it.And from one concentration camp, seven prisoners escaped.
Germans.
The Commandant has seven trees chopped, and crosses attached, waiting for the return.
Six prisoners are recaptured, or found dead.
And how will the paperhanger, the gardener, the shepherd, the wife react?To call this a thriller is to miss the larger point.
Olağanüstü bir politik gerçekçi roman.
Sürükleyici, öfkelendirici, heyecanlandırıcı, düşündürücü, hüzünlendirici, umutlandırıcı kısaca birden çok duyguyu birbirine ekleyen bir roman.
Faşizmin adım adım gelişini, Alman halkının yaşadıklarını, liderleri Hitler’in buyruklarıyla SS ve SA kıtalarının nasıl vahşileştiklerini, kardeşin kardeşe düşürüldüğünü mükemmel anlatıyor yazar.
Alman Komünist Partisi üyesi olan yazar ile Marksist eleştirmen Georg (György) Lukacs arasındaki tartışmayı hatırlatan A.
Cemal, sonuçta Lukacs kendi anlayışı doğrultusunda romanı eleştirse de onun faşizmin en korkunç uygulama biçimlerinden birini yansıttığını da kabul ettiğini belirtiyor.
Ben romanı okuduktan sonra Anna Seghers’in faşizme karşı savaşımda bu roman ile Lukacs’tan daha yararlı bir görev yaptığına inanıyorum.
Written from Exile  When Anna Seghers published this novel in 1942, she was living in Mexico, an exile from her native Germany. A Jewess married to an Hungarian Communist, she had double reason to flee to France when Hitler came to power in 1933. And reason again in 1940, when Paris fell. Her novel, a rare German denunciation of the Nazi regime while it was at its height, was a major success when it first appeared in an abridged version, gaining further popularity with the 1944 Fred Zinnemann m
The main character is a Communist, George Heisler; the narrative follows his path across the countryside, taking refuge with those few who are willing to risk a visit from the Gestapo, while the rest of the escapees are gradually overtaken by their hunters.
The camp escape story as a specific trope would also come into its own in the aftermath of WW2, but the hero-on-the-run genre goes back at least to the war before that, in books such as 
The main character, Georg Heisler, is one of the fugitives and is intended for the eponymous Seventh Cross.
Maybe the hear-nothing/see-nothing/speak-nothing approach will work best?This is a carefully constructed novel and I think the strongest parts are the ones not written down.
One strange thing about this book is the fact that it was published first in the USA (1942, in English) and almost at the same time in Mexico (in German).
Or maybe Anna Seghers wrote both versions, and translated from German to English herself.
In any case this was the first book that let the people from the US know about Nazi-Germany, and apparently also the first one that mentions concentration camps.
Rather like novels by Hans Fallada, there is something much more interesting about reading a book written during the time that these events were taking place, which do not have the benefit of hindsight that later novels had.
From the very first pages, we are aware of the escaped prisoner (George Hesisler) and of his former friend, Franz Marnet, who now works at the Hoeschst Dye Plant.
Just in those first pages, Anna Seghers is making a point – that locals were aware of the work camps that existed on their doorsteps, even if they were unaware of what went on inside them.
Dabei begegnet man parallel zu Heislers Flucht seinen alten Bekannten, Freunden, seiner Ehefrau und ganzen Dörfern, deren Alltag, wie sein eigener, niemals unberührt bleibt vom Dritten Reich.Manches bleibt in der Schwebe, wird nur angedeutet, wie das Schicksal von Dr. Löwenstein.
Es sind vor allem die Figuren, die diesen Roman zu etwas Besonderem machen und nicht allein die Geschichte.
Zurück bleibt man mit gemischten Gefühlen: Der Krieg hat noch nicht angefangen, noch sind es nur die politischen Gegner, die inhaftiert werden und als Leser denkt man viele Jahre weitere, viele schlimme Jahre und wird bedrückt.
The inside flap says: "Readers today, in a world at war, and readers in the future, in a world at peace, may come to consider the story of George Heisler's escape from Westhofen prison camp the finest and most deeply understanding book of all that have been written on the greatest subject and theme of these times--the fight against Nazi tyranny."***George Heisler's escape is more than a decent yarn, it's also allegedly one of the earliest--perhaps the first--appearances of a concentration camp in literature.
We all felt how profoundly and terribly outside forces can reach into a human being, to his innermost self. But we also sensed that in that innermost core there was something that was unassailable and inviolable. Originally published in 1942, this is set a few years before the outbreak of WW2 when the concentration camps were prison camps for German 'criminals' as designated by Nazi typology. Seven men escape at the start, and as six of them are recaptured, we witness George Heisler's attempts
Seven men escape at the start, and as six of them are recaptured, we witness George Heisler's attempts to keep ahead of his dedicated pursuers.This is undoubtedly an important book in terms of its content and its representation of resistance to Nazi power - but the writing style (or maybe the translation?) makes this flat and laborious reading, lacking vividness, pace and literary flair.
There are often (not always) pertinent reasons why books drop out of favour: this is worth a read for the way in which it documents its historical moment but it's somewhat lacking for me as a literary novel of style and engagement.
First and foremost is the glimpse into pre-WWII fascist Germany.
Communists, Jews, and anyone else viewed as a threat to the fascist regime were victimized.
SS and SA officers walked around like slumlords.
A true state of fear permeated throughout the country.Seghers novel is also a pleasure to read.
Seghers was also not afraid to ignore customary norms while structuring her novel.
Point of views often switch mid paragraph, and she likes to throw in first person plural from time to time.
Tag on a list of over 30 characters and you have a much denser read than you might expect.
It’s so old that it doesn’t even have an ISBN, and it’s in Polish, so I can’t say anything about the quality of the English translation – but if you are interested in the rise of Nazism, or totalitarian systems in general, or in history of the 20th century, or simply in good writing, please, please read this book.WW2 (which left my country mutilated beyond recognition) is insanely popular.
And the former – the majority – are so very comfortable and content with themselves, and convicted that they were right, that it’s hard not to understand them, and then to ask oneself difficult questions.And the uncomfortable truth of this book is that most of those who opposed Nazism in the West were NOT regular, “normal” people.
As in historical document this is an important work primarily because it portrays the mindset of the German people; would they adhere to the barbarous actions of a ruthless government in waiting or were they prepared to stretch out the hand of friendship and help the escapees.I must confess that as a story I did not find the book as well written as I had hoped (that honour must certainly go to the wonderful Alone in Berlin by Hans Fallada.
Significant in the timing of its release in 1938. All of the pieces for the holocaust are in place. Even better, the writing is top quality and notable in its realistic description of the inner lives of those living under the Third Reich.
Ze had haar boek “Das Siebte Kreuz” al in 1939 geschreven en dit werd in 1942 in Amerika uitgegeven waar het in 1944 werd verfilmd met Spencer Tracey in de hoofdrol.Het verhaal gaat over een ontsnapping uit een Duits concentratiekamp in 1936 waarin toen voornamelijk communisten, socialisten en personen die zich tegen Hitler’s regime uitspraken of dingen deden die in de ogen van het regime niet door de beugel konden, werden opgesloten.Zeven mannen ontsnappen waarvan zes vrij snel weer worden opgepakt.
Het is een indrukwekkend boek omdat het heel goed de sfeer weergeeft van een land waarin je de eigen buren, collega’s en kennissen niet meer kunt vertrouwen.
It opens your eyes to the level of distrust everyone has for their neighbour, and has that subtle nod towards modern times with its fake news.We follow George Heisler as he tries to outrun the manhunt.
As George heads back towards places he lived and worked before his imprisonment, people he knew there are faced with a dilemma.
The drinking companion says he could make a lot of money handing George over.“They used to be friends, these two; then came the years during which they no longer talked about anything meaningful with each other for fear of giving themselves away, in case the other had changed.
Frankly I didn't realize libraries kept books so badly damaged, but I'm glad mine did.The Seventh Cross would have been worth a read even if it wasn't the best read in of itself - a novel which graphically depicts concentration camps and the totalitarian state, published in 1942?
Shows the lie of anyone who post-war said, 'Oh, but we had no idea...' But even better, the book is a great read: George's escape from a camp (at a time when such camps were still mostly used for political prisoners) and his subsequent battle to stay escaped makes for a gripping experience where things change rapidly page by page.
Während SA und SS fieberhaft versuchen sie wieder einzufangen, warten auf dem Hof des KZs sieben Platanen an denen die wieder eingefangenen Flüchtlinge aufgeknüpft werden sollen.Während Georg sich in einem Gestrüpp versteckt, hört er, wie der erste geflohene Häftling entdeckt und zurück ins Lager geschleppt wird.
Jeder der sechs Verbliebenen ist auf sich selbst gestellt.
Auf dem Weg dorthin, bekommt er nicht mit, wie es zwischenzeitlich den anderen Flüchtlingen ergeht.Ein erschütternder Roman, die Angst entdeckt zu werden, die Angst vor dem Tod (oder Schlimmerem!) und die ständige Frage, wem man vertrauen kann und welche Freunde man in Gefahr bringen kann, lassen dich immer weiter und weiter lesen.
As in historical document this is an important work primarily because it portrays the mindset of the German people; would they adhere to the barbarous actions of a ruthless government in waiting or were they prepared to stretch out the hand of friendship and help the escapees.I must confess that as a story I did not find the book as well written as I had hoped (that honour must certainly go to the wonderful Alone in Berlin by Hans Fallada.
5 μέρες μετά, μόνον ο ένας σταυρός έχει μείνει κενός:Είναι εκείνος που προσμένει τον 7ο δραπέτη Γκέοργκ Χάισλερ, ενόσο εκείνος περιδιαβαίνει τα περίχωρα της Φρανκφούρτης και την παλιά του ζωή για να συναντήσει τις αντιφάσεις μιας κοινωνίας που βυθίζεται ολοένα και περισσότερο σε ένα σκοτάδι με ελάχιστους θύλακες αντίστασης στον ναζιστικό ζόφο:Θα σταθούν αρκετοί αυτοί για να τον οδηγήσουν στη σωτηρία; ΣΧΟΛΙΑΣΜΟΣ Ο "Έβδομος Σταυρός" της Άννα Ζάγκερς συνιστά ένα δυνατό κοινωνικό μυθιστόρημα με υπόκωφη ένταση κι ενδιαφέροντες χαρακτήρες, που ιχνηλατεί όσο λίγα τη διάβρωση της γερμανικής κοινωνίας υπό το νέο καθεστώς και διεισδύει στην ψυχή του αναγνώστη πολύ αποτελεσματικά, εγείροντας την κρίση του: Ο ανατριχιαστικός τίτλος του βιβλίου αιχμαλωτίζει το ενδιαφέρον του αναγνώστη, περικλείοντας, σε μια φράση, όλη την αγωνία, τη διαστροφή και την άμετρη φρίκη του ναζισμού.Ο "σταυρός" αποτελεί ευθύ συμβολισμό του Μαρτυρίου και η Άννα Ζέγκερς αξιοποιεί την πανόσια εικόνα του Θείου Πάθους από την Καινή Διαθήκη, προκειμένου να αναδείξει τον "Γολγοθά των Αθώων", όπως τον σκηνοθέτησε η ελίτ των Ναζί με αποκορύφωμα το δολοφονικό πλέγμα των Ες Ες γύρω από τους Ανυπεράσπιστους.6 "εσταυρωμένοι": Η Ανθρωπότητα "εσταυρωμένη".
The Seventh Cross was first published in 1942, obviously mid WWII.
The Seventh Cross portrays not only the horrors of the camp, but the inner and outer life of George, one of seven escapees.
Seven trees are topped with a cross bar nailed into them, with nails in the trees for the returned prisoners to be shown to the others in the camp.
The seventh one is for George, who lasted longest in freedom, even though it was hardly freedom.
Already broken and battered physically, mentally, and emotionally, George's desperate endeavors to stay alive are exhausting to the reader as well.
4.5 stars. Powerful novel about the escape of seven political prisoners from a concentration camp in pre-WWII Germany. There are multiple characters to follow, but there is a list of them included which is very helpful. The paranoia felt by German citizens under Nazi rule is well portrayed.
It’s a miracle that The Seventh Cross, by Anna Seghers, exists.
It was published in 1942 after Seghers sent a manuscript to her American publisher.
(The other three manuscripts she sent were lost.) The novel tells the story of George Heisler, a Communist who escapes from a concentration camp in southwestern Germany, along with six other prisoners.
Back at the concentration camp, there are seven crosses waiting for them when they are captured...Read the rest of my review at A Bookish Type.
I received a free copy of this book from the publisher via Edelweiss, for review consideration.
To have written this novel as a German Jew and communist at this time in history is beyond what most would be willing to put their lives at risk for.
Seghers captures very well the fascist climate as well as the German rural countryside, and does a very impressive job at tracking each association of George Heisler's so that you don't get lost by the time the story comes to its conclusion.But really, this is a humanistic story if anything.
The reader is able to peer into the lives, hopes, dreams, and fears of multiple characters, and see how their role in George's life has more than one implication.
Her story is a powerful, contemporary treatment of life in Fascist Germany, where people's neighbors could be arrested and shipped off to concentration camps.
The book gives a fictional account of several escapees from such a camp, but focuses on the plight of George Heisler, who must struggle to escape the clutches of the Gestapo and seek help from other Germans who realize that by giving him aid, they are endangering their own lives.Seghers described her nascent book as "a story that provides the opportunity to learn about very many levels in fascist Germany through the fate of a single man" (p.
Ein großartig erzählte Geschichte einer Flucht. Die Erzählweise zieht einen mit und bringt einem die Charaktere mit ihren Biographien spielend nah.
Sehr schwierig zu lesen wegen der vielen Personen und Perspektivenwechsel. Auch der Schreibstil ist anspruchsvoll zu lesen und man muss voll dabei sein und konzentriert lesen.
In the mid 1930's, seven political prisoners escape from a concentration camp in central Germany.
In the camp they were tortured by the SA who hoped to collect more names of resisters from the prisoners.
One of these prisoners was George Heisler, a young man subjected to some of the worst treatment.
After the escape, the prisoners split up.
This is a question the author does not answer until the last page.Anna Seghers has written an excellent book about tyranny and the fear a despotic government can inflict on its citizens.
I could remember just enough of that to interest me in the book.
"A brilliantly written escape novel, written while the Nazis were in power and one of the only depictions of a concentration camp to be seen in the midst of war.
Yes, The Seventh Cross is an escape novel, but it’s also more than that, it’s a cautionary tale about the dangers of surveillance and the way distrust sabotages the sense of community which binds us together as human.The seventh cross of the title, is the last of seven erected for the purpose of executing the escapees from the (fictional) Westhofen Concentration Camp.
Inkább érdekes, mint jó. Sok minden kiderül a nácizmus alatti német mindennapi életről, és hogy miért támogatták illetve szolgálták ki a rendszert. Kalandregényként is jó, nagyon lehet izgulni a főszereplők sorsáért. De a politikai üzenet elnyomja az irodalmi mondanivalót, nagyon szájunkba rágja a regény, hogy "voltak rendes németek is" és voltak baloldaliak a Harmadik Birodalomban is, illetve, hogy eleve azért volt nácizmus, mert meg lettek tévesztve az emberek azzal, hogy a nácik megvalósítottak egy csomó baloldali követelést. Egészében véve azért nem olyan jó ez mint regény, mint amennyire szociológiailag érdekes, mert Anna Seghers nagyon tehetséges író, nem egy Thomas Mann.
Wie hättest Du Dich entschieden?Wie hättest Du gehandelt?Wäre die Angst größer gewesen als Dein Gewissen?Die politische Neigung Anna Seghers wird zwar deutlich, aber bleibt im Hintergrund. Sie ist präsent, aber nicht aufdringlich. Weitaus mehr Augenmerk liegt auf den (moralischen) Entscheidungen der Figuren. Man gerät ins Grübeln über sich selbst und was man in so einer Situation gemacht hätte.Etwas gestört (aber wirklich nur minimal) haben mich die dauernden Verniedlichungen (Lädchen, Wägelchen, Holzklötzchen, usw.). Und ich bin unendlich dankbar für das "Happy End". Wäre das nicht so, hätte ich heulen müssen.
