https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13517455-reboot
How many people here have watched/read something to do with a robot apocalypse where humans' obsession with technology comes back to bite them in the rear end? Where they create their own destruction in the form of a creature that is stronger or more intelligent than they are? I must have heard that story a million times. But what does it look like from the other side of the fence? What is it like to be an artificial human creation, made for the sole purpose of serving, of making human lives be
How many people here have watched/read something to do with a robot apocalypse where humans' obsession with technology comes back to bite them in the rear end?
You might find yourself never reading a robot apocalypse story in the same way again.
Wren and Ever are two very different Reboots but they are so important to one another, there were even a few moments that had me choked up.As well as this, the story opens with a fast-paced action scene when Wren is out on an assignment and the novel continues to maintain this level of pulse-pounding excitement all the way through.
I WANT THIS BOOK. Oh yesssssssss, I can't wait to read this!!.........MAY 2013??????? Are you kidding me????......Ok, I'll wait..........THE END.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Update 28/02:Dear Author, Dear Editor, please give me an arc.I can't keep on waiting for this book...PLEASE.
I flew this book all in one day and loved how the story progressed--something was always happening, so there was never a dull moment.
I wasn't expecting to enjoy their relationship so much, and I also wasn't expecting to find myself laughing as often as I did, but there are a lot of great snippets of dialogue throughout.
The romance was sweet--maybe a little too sweet at times--and it did happen pretty fast, but that's not a deal-breaker for me.
If you like fast-paced action-packed dystopians with plenty of romance and violence, then this is the book for you!
When I first read the synopsis of this book I had to do a double take because I thought someone had written a biography about me....Girl has no emotions, a bad case of resting bitch face, and hates everything...Turns out it wasn't about me it was just about my new favorite fem heroine Wren!
Wren has to decide between this new odd feeling she has for the overly smiley Callum or the government in which she loves.Reboot is the odd sort of book that pretends to be something it is not, and that's a good thing.
They work for a special branch named HARC, all of the Reboots living together, training together, each assigned with a number that indicates how long they were dead.In this world is Wren, the best of the best.
She is number 178, meaning she spent that long being dead before she became a Reboot.
She is strongest, toughest, the number one reboot; as such, she is assigned tough cases and acts as a trainer for those newly dead and risen.
I swear that's all he does for the first half of the book, he laughs, he giggles, he smiles.
Wren is a reboot that woke up the longest - 178 minutes, to be exact - and she tells us this resulted in someone who's void of any human feelings and is therefore an empty shell.
The love interest, Callum, like I said, was average, boring, and a freaking failure in his role to be the voice of reason between the two.
It felt like he was forcefully put there because you know, someone needs to tame the terminator of the group, right?
It felt like the story only moved because the heroine only wanted to save her guy, not seeing the bigger and greater picture.
You can also read this review on Flying Kick-a-pow! Reviews.2.5 Stars I wrapped the leash around my hand and ignored her protests as I hauled her to her feet and dragged her down the street past the crumbling wooden shacks."It wasn't me! I didn't kill nobody!" Her movements became wild, almost convulsive, and I turned to glare at her."There's something human left in you, ain't there?" she asked, craning her neck to look at the number above the bar code on my wrist.She froze. Her eyes flew from t
But suddenly, Wren is starting to question HARC and her position as a soldier––and to complicate things even more, she's starting to feel truly alive for the first time since she Rebooted.My thoughts:Damn it, this book really let me down.
And while I wasn't a big fan of the romance in this book as a whole, I did at least like the set-up for it.
Seriously, Wren and Callum spent so much freaking time kissing in this book, I swear to God. It may sound like a weird complaint, but like … I started to feel like it was every other sentence.
I decided to read this since I loved the Ruined series, and this one did not disappoint!
Pretty much when you die you have a chance of coming back as a reboot.
It’s zombie-like minus the whole eating people and rotting thing.
HARCO thinks the ones that come back to life under sixty minutes are too human.
They then start giving those reboots testing shots which does trigger zombieish symptoms, example a hunger for human flesh.
I thought Wren was awesome.
She sort of reminded me a little of Nemesis from The Diabolic.
Callum was sweet, and their romance was excellent!
Actual Rating: 3.5 starsIncredibly interesting, fast-paced, and original--at least when concerning the plot and elements of the plot--and with alluring relationship dynamics and compelling action sequences, Amy Tintera's debut novel, Reboot, is one to undoubtedly remain standing amongst other well-written debuts releasing this year.
read the first page of this book and I was like, SUCKA SUCKA WHAAATT?!It's gonna be good, dudes. Real good.
❝Humans had a brightness to them, a glow that only death extinguished.❞ Reboot was, in my honest opinion, a lot better than  Ruined.  I don't know how Rebel is and if it is better or not, but I'll find out soon. For now, Reboot is my favorite by Amy. It had a lot more sci-fi elements that were interesting and in ruined, the whole fantasy elements fell off. The main character was a lot stronger while I thought Em was an average heroine. She was quicker, stronger, and built more into what she is
Callum did grow stronger and was not only able to build a relationship with Wren, but to build himself up.
I was glad he was finally getting used to seeing kills and seeing "Wren kill people" and wouldn't look at her with fear in his eyes and worry and feel like he did something wrong.The romance was slow paced.
I actually want to see how Wren and Callum's relationship grows and see if it works out until the end, and I want to see if there will be other reboots that will join and get in the way.
Estamos acosumbrados a novelas con buenas premisas que luego terminan siendo muy similares, pero en esta ocasión tenemos una historia con un aura de misterio constante, con mucha sangre, violencia, acción a más no poder y una trama de amor con un muy buen desarrollo que no se hace para nada pesada.
Porque sí, tiene semejanzas pero en todas estas comparaciones la novela se aleja.Como digo, el romance está muy bien llevado y no es para nada pesado.
La historia se centra en una cosa y así es durante toda la novela.
Buy this book HERE on Amazon   or buy this book HERE on BookDepository with FREE WORLDWIDE SHIIPPING 3 out of 5 stars (Please read my rating system further below). I just finished reading this title. Full review to come. My rating system: (I do use half stars.)5 - I do not use the 5 star. Not because a book might not be worthy, but because a book is never perfect.4 - I loved it! There weren't too many flaws, and I had no trouble getting through it. (A 4 star rating is the highest rating I've ev
Buy this book HERE on Amazon
or buy this book HERE on BookDepository with FREE WORLDWIDE SHIIPPING
3 out of 5 stars (Please read my rating system further below).
I just finished reading this title.
My rating system: (I do use half stars.)5 - I do not use the 5 star.
(A 4 star rating is the highest rating I've ever given a book.)3 - I enjoyed the book, but there we're flaws that made me enjoy it less.2 - I finished the book, but there were too many flaws for me to enjoy it.1 - I could not finish the book, and I probably did not finish it....
Wait for it, I'm about to launch into some intense rambling! Since I've started this, dare I say, YA Experiment of sorts. I've realised a few things about my reading habits. First of all, contrary to popular belief I am not a newbie when it comes to YA PNR, sci-fi and fantasy, once upon a time that used to be all I read, it's probably been about four years since I was strictly just a YA reader. But I will also add that the YA genre has changed a lot, for the better thank goodness. Back to my re
While reading this book, I convinced myself that I was a Reboot and and to anyone who tried to tell me different, my reaction would have probably been something like this:Tintera took Zombies and gave them an even more lethal twist!
Wren has never questioned her life as a Reboot in the facility, she's never had reason to.
It sucked me right in, when I read a book I'd like to feel like I'm a part of the story instead of a bystander.
4 STARSThis book took me by surprise!I was a little hesitant because I read reviews that had given the book 1-2 stars.But when I started reading it,I couldn't put it down!!It captivated me and put me inside the world Amy had created!!It was really good!!The story begins with Wren...She is known as 178 in reference to the number of minutes she was dead before she came back to life.Due to the fact she is stronger!Human use her and all the Reboots to value for their services.Enter Callum who was dead for only 22 minutes.He isn't very strong and still acts like human.With his humor and his kidness he will keep Wren's interest!Human have all the Reboots in facilities.
Secondly, it was extremely violent, to the point where it seemed to romanticize violence and killing for the sake of maintaining a character that had already begun to falter the moment her love interest appeared.Following Wren 178, a Reboot who was dead 178 minutes before she reanimated as a deadly, inhuman soldier, REBOOT is about an elite team of once-dead teenage soldiers in a world decimated by a zombifying virus called KDH controlled by a quasi-government police force tasked with rounding up criminals and KDH-afflicted people.
Wren would wax poetic at random times about the architecture of the building, the origins of the KDH virus, how Rebooting actually worked), and so on.
This is the first book I have absolutely flown through since reading ACOWAR, and for that it deserves 5 stars.
I hardly read dystopian books since they usually annoy the shit out of me, but I read this purely because I loved Amy Tintera's other series so I thought I'd give this one a go too.
I actually loved this book so much and couldn't put it down once I started.
Nah it's really not HOWEVER I enjoyed it so so much and it's definitely deserving of a 5 star rating.
I'd 200% recommend this book as well as her other series starting with Ruined.
4/5Reiniciados es una novela que destaca por su originalidad dentro de las obras juveniles distópicas. Tiene un ritmo envidiable y engancha desde la primera página, donde se plantean muchos interrogantes que se van desarrollando y desvelando poco a poco. Me ha encantado la evolución de su protagonista, Wren, y la crudeza con la que la autora describe todo tipo de situaciones.Sin embargo, me ha parecido que el ritmo decae un poco a la mitad del libro, aunque enseguida recupera tono.Una novela muy recomendada si buscáis algo distópico distinto y sobre todo, adictivo. No puedo esperar a la segunda parte :).
Fun, entertaining, quick read! Just posted a bootalk http://youtu.be/cVwkK17RGAo !
Wren is a legend among Reboots because it took her 178 minutes to revive.
When Callum shows up, he is her exact opposite, physically weak and emotional after being only 22 minutes dead and with most of his humanity preserved.
It’s true that once you take the time to process it, Reboot loses some of its shine, but not nearly enough to make that initial delight fade completely.
But it took no more than two smiles from Callum to completely change her behavior.
It’s true that some of her coldness remained, but the change was still too pronounced.Nevertheless, Reboot is a debut worthy of the hype.
For our main character, Wren, she is the prodigy to fellow Rebooters, it took 178 minutes to be healed and up again.
By no means was Wren a interactive character, she keeps to herself as after all, her humanity levels are relatively demolished.
Callum 22 is not only just a random Reboot, but also he was the quickest to ever come back to life meaning he was the character that made this book feel like they were complete aliens from outer space.
Largely know as insta-love, Reboot had little buildup on the chemistry between Callum and Wren.
UNA DE LAS MEJORES DISTOPÍAS QUE HE LEÍDO Reiniciados es una novela distópica, primera parte de una trilogía, que viene pisando muy fuerte y cuyas críticas son muy positivas.
El personaje de Wren me fascinó porque tenemos pocas mujeres (aparte de Katniss Everdeen) en la literatura que sean las fuertes, valientes y que le salven el culo a los demás.
Una novela que rompe con los roles de género de la literatura juvenil.En resumen, Reiniciados es una primera parte de trilogía magnífica.
Una novela que engancha muchísimo y que rompe con muchos tópicos de la literatura juvenil.
All I will say is that I managed to read it in a single evening and now I need the sequel!
The main character Wren dies five years ago, but rebooted in a time of 178 minutes, so she is known as one-seventy-eight.
As part of a Reboot, bring trained as a fighter, Wren takes on a new trainee called Callum or number 22.
I really liked learning more about Wren and Callum's backgrounds.
There is some violence throughout the novel, however enough tension and drama that kept me reading on until the final page.
Actual Rating: 3.5I have to confess that the blurb didn't attracted me that much but I love Amy Tintera's writing so I just left it on my kindle until I read it. I found out that I'm really attracted to her stories. Still, this one wasn't that awesome.  “There’s some human left in you, ain’t there?” she asked, craning her neck to look at the number above the bar code on my wrist.She froze. Her eyes flew from the 178 printed on my skin to my face and she let out another shriek.No. There was no hu
“There’s some human left in you, ain’t there?” she asked, craning her neck to look at the number above the bar code on my wrist.She froze.
Her eyes flew from the 178 printed on my skin to my face and she let out another shriek.No. There was no human left in me.
She is like a cold robot that has the highest rank among the reboots (those who died and came back to life.
Kinda like a zombie, but human...?).
Do that thing where you look blank, like you have no feelings at all.”“I think that’s just my face.”
These reboots are stronger, faster, less emotional and, well, they don’t eat humans.Mostly.In Wren’s future, fifty states have been reduced to one.
She doesn’t feel things the way the other numbers do, those below sixty whose human emotions still remain.That is, until a twenty-two named Callum shows up…From the moment they meet, Wren’s captivated by him.
Until Wren feels challenged to take him on as a newbie.What she doesn’t expect is that he won’t be the only one learning new things.In case you haven’t figured it out yet, I pretty much loved this from beginning to end.
He was a-freaking-dorable.”I’ll try and sleep,” he said, closing his eyes.
She melts.Figures.I was first drawn to this book because the heroine sounded like a sort of icy robot, emotionless and not human at all.
I just can't.Maybe my two stars are a little too strict, but I can't think of anything positive to say about this book.
Otherwise, how could the protagonist fit in the plot?Now find the courage to tell me this is not stupid.And I am even more sorry because I truly wanted to like this; the premise was kind of interesting and I was extremely intrigued by the main character we were promised.
When Callum refuses to follow an order, Wren is given one last chance to get him in line—or she’ll have to eliminate him.
Wren has never disobeyed before and knows if she does, she’ll be eliminated, too.
And I'd also really like to point out how it says that Wren 178 is stronger, faster, able to heal, and  less emotional .
It felt like I was just thrown right into a situation without knowing anything about it, and no one would tell me.I dunno, maybe there was something about this book that I just didn't  get ?
If it was, please do tell me, because I'd really like to know.
Reboot.
Humans are afraid to them because, of not their physical appearance, but their inhumane acts -- they kill.The book has a strong potential for being the next big thing until some chapters began crawling to the romancey-type scenes.
Because to be honest, I somehow enjoyed the cuteness of the romance between Wren and Callum since Wren is the deadliest and the least emotional among the Reboots but it's too much.
Ugh. It almost hide the main plot of the book.Anyway, highway, the main dystopia/sci-fi concept was still there, for chrissake, so I'm still interested to read the sequel.
I guess I'm guna give this one a go! We'll see what happens....
I felt like I’ve read this plot so many times in another book, I wasn’t captivated by the writing style and I got annoyed with the main character and the romance.
The writing style was quick and easy, I liked Wren and found her to display a reboot quite well, I really enjoyed the plot and was intrigued by the world building and the rebooting system.
The way some scenes are written was almost without feeling, it didn’t come across sometimes and though I understand because Wren is a reboot but also later in the book with some romance scenes the writing was really plain.
