https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112323.The_Clock_Winder
I have read most of Anne Tyler's books and enjoyed all of them except Dinner at the Homesick Restaurant which I could not get on with for some reason.
I will have to try it again some day.I had no such problems with The Clock Winder.
This was Anne Tyler at her best.
There were clocks and they did get wound but .....
ah, was Elizabeth the "clock winder'?
I also struggled with the sudden introduction of Peter and his wife at the end.
They came, they left and the book ended.
Very suddenly.Nevertheless a totally engrossing book, beautifully written as usual and well worth reading.
I am astonished by how many people I think should know better who have never read anything by Tyler.
Isn't that something?'And there I sat, as I read this, in my quite small life, and resolved to dress better.
Though I rather think I draw the line at holding my tummy in.Matthew recalls his brother, Tim, who shot himself as Elizabeth attempted to take away the gun - well, I think it was all his own work.Then a new picture slid in, clicking up from the back of his head: Timothy quarreling with Elizabeth.
What I will say (prior to a re-read and review, which is sure to happen in the future) is that #1: I wrote my Master's thesis on Anne Tyler's work, and that #2: this is my all-time favorite of Tyler's work.
She signs on as more of a general take-care-of-all-things person, but builds relationships despite her insistence on not have an impact.
But back to the novel, this is one of the greatest of Tyler's novels of characterization (which is to say all of them), even though she has said she is embarrassed by this book; don't be fooled, it's an extremely well written novel worthy of a read.
I can't imagine my wanting to read any of hers back to back, but, with few exceptions, I like her and will keep returning to her.The novel opens in 1960.
The recently widowed Pauline Emerson, seeing her handyman peeing on the roses, decides she's had enough of such behavior (after 25 years) and fires him.
She then decides the furniture on the veranda doesn't need to sit there year round.
As simply as that, Elizabeth is hired as the new handyman, and a novel is written.The characterizations are good enough.
I'm not sure the individual characters matter so much as the characterization of the family.
Favorite passage:"Isn't it amazing how hard people work to raise their children?
For every grownup you see, you know there must have been at least one person who had the patience to lug them around, and feed them, and walk them nights and keep them out of danger for years and years without a break.
Isn't that surprising?
People you wouldn't trust your purse with five minutes, maybe, but still they put in years and years of time tending their children along and they don't even make a fuss about it...
isn't that something?"
Over the course of the story (it's really more of a chronology of several relationships), Anne Tyler fleshes out some great characters, but I left with the sense that I didn't really know any of them.
But I wanted to know more about her characters, what made them tick (pun intended).
And I for sure wanted a better hold on the changes that occur with the characters.
I guess I wanted a little death-and-resurrection in the character arcs, and when it didn't show up, none of it seemed quite as real.
I liked the characters, and it's nice to read about families as unique as my own.
Della Tyler non è che abbia mai avuto una grande opinione, ma una cretinata come questa ci vuole un bel talento per scriverla. Un bel talento per la stupidaggine. Allora perchè hai letto tanti suoi romanzi, direte voi? Perchè, talvolta, in alcuni passaggi dei suoi scritti, coglie momenti ed esprime le sensazioni umane in modo veramente azzeccato.Ma mi sa, ormai, data l'esperienza fatta, che le capita per puro caso e non perchè rifletta davvero sui problemi. Bye bye, Mrs. Tyler
Protagonista è una grande famiglia di Baltimora, composta da sette fratelli e dalla loro madre, rimasta improvvisamente vedova; come in ogni famiglia, ci sono sentimenti contrastanti che legano i figli: gelosie ed invidie che sfociano in eventi tragici, ma il tutto viene esposto con levità e leggerezza, quasi a invitare il lettore a non drammatizzare per le tempeste che la vita ci riserva.
Capita che un genitore anziano preferisca essere accudito piuttosto che dal proprio figlio da un estraneo, e allora il figlio si interroga su come mai il suo affetto indiscusso sembri non essere riconosciuto dal genitore.
Another Ann Tyler and another absorbing and thoughtful read.
I got all swept away with the family in this book, a bunch of nutty but lovely, well for the most part people.
Elizabeth, the handyman, is the heroine of the story.
She enables the rest of the family to be as eccentric as anything while she calmly fixes the things they own but also fixes them along the way.
There is a lot of love in this story, and everyone loves Elizabeth, and who can blame them.
If you are an Ann Tyler fan you'll love this one as much as all the rest.
I've really liked a number of Anne Tyler's books (especially "Digging to America" and "Saint Maybe". This book was a real disappointment. I kept waiting for whatever it is that has made the aforementioned books special, but it never appeared. If you want to read one of her books there are quite a few others more worthy of your time.
One of Tyler earliest works, in which she shows promise, though the book never really comes together. Worked okay for me to fill time, but if you're looking for anything along the lines of her later, more acclaimed work, you'll likely be disappointed.Audio narrator does a decent job with the material.
Sigh. I can't give an Anne Tyler book anything less than a five star (except for one!). This one was sadder than most of them, and then ending was just a leeetle bit sketchy. But it's Anne Tyler and all's well that ends well.
I enjoyed Anne Tyler’s The Clock Winder and her depiction of supposedly ordinary people and their domestic lives. The characters - Mrs Emerson and her seven adult children and Elizabeth Abbott (who unwillingly but I think rather naturally picks up the role of Clock Winder) - are revealed as complex people who almost unanimously are unable to shrug off the effects of their childhood experiences. I want to now read more of what she has written.
I’ll give this the same review I give every Anne Tyler book: I could read a new one every week for the rest of my life and be happy. I’ve never read anyone else who so clearly captures how people are and how life is. This is an older book but it holds up pretty perfectly. Her books sort of stand outside of time.
The blurb of this book quotes several reviews calling the authoress "a magical writer", "funny" etc.
The first page is dated 1960, but there is absolutely nothing in the story itself that evokes the years of change and ferment in which I personally grew up.
It could have taken place in the forties, or the eighties, or yesterday; placing that date so prominently at the head of the text seemed like yet another pointless gesture on the part of the authoress.
I do not wait patiently at the best of times, and neither the story nor the writing was enough to engage me.
I love Anne Tyler's novels, having read many of them over the years.
This novel is from her earlier years (1972), and I found this one the one I have liked the least.
I do love how she gives little nuances and quirks to her characters, and how everyday life becomes the centre of her stories.There is so much symbolism in this story too~ the clock winder ( someone who keeps everything in sync), and how Elizabeth seems to fill this role even though she is not a related member of the family.I won't let my disappointment with this book stop me from reading Anne Tyler again~ she is a truly amazing writer.
Interesting quote from this book.
One thing I am beginning to learn about this author, her character development seems to lean toward dysfunction.
This book was about Elizabeth and the Emersons.
Elizabeth just shows up in the yard of Mrs. Emerson one day.
How she appears in Mrs. Emerson’s yard is very vague.
Elizabeth is then hired as Mrs. Emerson’s handyman and thus begins the story.
The Emerson’s are very odd.
The story was interesting.
The character development was just too odd for me to relate to, leaving me with an uneasy feeling at the end.
I love Anne Tyler.
However--and this is a huge however--there were 3 or 4 chapters which were completely baffling and confusing and even hard to follow.
:) Most of the narrative involves Elizabeth--from her perspective and over the course of weeks.
But in those 3 or 4 chapters you jump time and perspective.
I had to re-read the beginnings of these chapters multiple times to figure out what was going on and who these people were.
Okay--then the real kicker--in the final chapter, she not only changes time and perspective, she changes Elizabeth's name--in conversation as well as exposition--to Gillespie!
I wanted to love it.
The "climax" of the story is rushed, lacking any true tone of foreclosure, as though the author herself grew as bored writing the book as this reader did of reading it.
The ending of the story lacked coherance; suddenly changing to the perspective of a character hardly mentioned throughout the rest of the book.[return]Although in retrospect, it can be admitted that the swarming of cicadas in the final chapter would make a very dramatic scene in a B-rated horror movie; however, they lacked any place in this story except for very modest symbolism, with horrid timing.
I found myself trying to figure out who Peter is and how he relates to Mrs. Emerson as he never played a role in the story until the very end.
It was confusing and I couldn't figure out why the author added this part at the end.
I enjoyed the relationship between Mrs Emerson and Elizabeth, and then the romance between Elizabeth and Matthew.
If the ending hadn't been like it was, I wouldn't enjoyed the whole story a lot better.
The ending was too hard for me put in relation to the rest of the story.
In the end, most of the characters have ended up in a good place, which seems to be a hallmark of an Anne Tyler story--people end up where they ought to be, not living an ideal life but living lifestyles that fit their individual idiosyncrasies.
I don't know all the factors that make it so, but only by the end of the book did I feel like I recognized the author as Anne Tyler.
It seems like she grew into her writing style while writing this book.There are a lot of characters here--the matriarch of the Emerson family, her seven grown children, and a few members of the household staff.
It follows a family's recovery from a life altering event.I really enjoyed the unlikely relationship between Mrs Emerson and her 'handyman'.
All the characters are delightfully flawed and 'real', but Mrs Emerson is by far my favourite; she's brilliant.Not a lot actually happens, really.
It's nice.The characters are difficult to like at times, as they are annoying and irrational.
Life a real family I guess.
I breezed through this book in a few hours; it was really nice to read after a lot of heavy fantasy novels.
However I am now going back to reading books about dragons.
After three previous Anne Tyler reads which I completely failed to enjoy, I have finally read one I like.
The book begins with quirky Mrs. Emerson firing her handyman.
She doesn't even know why she fired him, but can't take it back.
When a girl named Elizabeth happens by and offers to help her move her patio furniture, she takes a liking to her and hires her as the new handyman.
Like many of Anne Tyler's books, this is a story of people just living their lives, but there is quirkiness and humor and the occasional unexpected thing.

I am always amazed how Anne Tyler can take basically the same character types and plot - an irritating, real, quirky Baltimore family - and make it new and interesting time and again. Her theme is always how you can take or leave your family but never change them, and it seems new in each book. She is one of my favorite authors and I am even more impressed that this is one of her early books, written when she was very young.
Anne Tyler revisits one of her common themes. A woman is employed by a family to take care of the mother's house. Elizabeth is not like the Emerson family. She doesn't argue, discuss or really take sides. She just gets the job done. But somehow she becomes a wedge between two of the sons until a tragedy happens. Written in the early 70's, it reflects the time so well.
Anne Tylers books are always an interesting journey. This book was very much a journal of a girl named Elizabeth. She had always grown up thinking she broke everything. Then, she finds the Emerson's and turns into the person who fixes everything for them. It's a very insightful book, and very quirkey. I love the realness of Anne Tyler's characters.
I really didn't like anything about this rather tedious book. At one point, a character wonders if she brought home the wrong baby from the hospital. I wonder if they put Anne Tyler's name on someone else's book?
There was always something he was checking up on--as if he considered himself the advance scout for the grandchildren yet to be born.
'Where are you going, Melissa?' 'Out for a walk, can't stand it here.' 'When'll you be back?' ''Spect me when you see me.' 'Why don't I ever hear from you, Peter?' he said now, and then frowned at his silverware, as if turning the question over for all possible implications.""He still couldn't picture it.
He had a distinct recollection of Melissa's running away from home with a peanut butter sandwich and a pomegranate, two years before he was born ...

