https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/296384.The_Endless_Steppe
The story is heartbreaking and inspiring and while its shelved as a young adult novel certainly is an education and eye opener for any reader who wants an insight to the suffering and hardships of families transported to Siberia during the War.Esther Rudomin was ten years old when, in 1941, she and her family were arrested by the Russians and transported to Siberia.
This is the true story of the next five years spent in exile, of how the Rudomins kept their courage high, though they went barefoot and hungry.Having read and loved Between Shades of Gray
Esther is an 11 year old Jewish girl sent to Siberia in a cattle train with some of her family as they are accused of being capitalists.
We enjoyed the descriptions of life in Siberia, the harsh, inhumane existence but also the beauty found in the wilderness, the hope, the acts of kindness and just how much small things can mean when you have nothing.
One of our favourite books we have read in the last year.
We enjoyed looking for images of pimy boots, sapogy and fufaika.
I was impressed by the amount of history incorporated into this slim book: deportation of the Jews to Siberia, three years spent in a small village on the Russian steppes, the events of the war in Russia and finally "Polish" repatriation.
If focuses upon those themes that are of interest to young children: familial bonds and how they change as we grow older and become more independent, school and getting friends, clothes and hairstyles and how to "fit in", learning a foreign language, discovering literature and intellectual awareness, becoming one of a group, seeking acceptance and quite simply growing up...and that first boyfriend too.
I think it is wrong to state that this book is for adults.
Why shouldn't a book be written just for this age group?!
I had never even heard of this book until my sister handed it to me and told me to read it.
It sat on my shelf for months and I kept ignoring it - it just seemed like it would be depressing, and I wasn't in the mood.
This book was wonderful.
It almost made me wonder if I was reading a different book than them.
I didn't find it depressing because Esther is an eternal optimist, and that outlook was reflected in her writing.Two giant thumbs up!
I'm only sorry I somehow bypassed this book as a child.
I expected more of Endless Steppe than I got from it, found it simplistic and unreflective, when the story itself demands more.
Early in the morning, her family - father, mother, grandmother and Esther, are arrested by the Soviet Army.
After a series of moves from hut to hut, the Rudomins are eventually able to get their own hut.But life is still a struggle of obtaining food, having a means of heating the hut during the long, bitter cold winter and the gradual wearing out of the clothing they had brought with them and not money to buy more.
The Rudomins were arrested in that short space of time when eastern Poland was under Soviet control, for being capitalists because they owned a jewelry business.
Somehow I ended up with a copy of The Endless Steppe as a child and I must have read it several times because it got stuck in my subconscious.
For years I would think about it, and images would coming flooding back to me, about the day the soldiers appeared to take the family to Siberia, and the cold, desolation of the frozen tundra.
Most of all, I would think about the grandmother who pushed back her cuticles every night in the labor camp, to keep her hands beautiful.
Please spread the word, especially young girls who love to read.
Read this book if you want to be blown away by beautiful, powerful writing. Esther was ten years old when her family was exiled to Siberia because of an accusation of being capitalists in Stalin's Soviet Union. Told through a childs perspective, The Endless Steppe gives an unique view on how life was like for Russians during the WW2 Era.
#LeoAutorasOct Este libro nos sumerge en las experiencias de la autora durante la segunda guerra mundial. Una historia muy dura de una familia judía polaca deportada a Siberia por los rusos. De como la vida te puede cambiar en un instante, y de cómo la naturaleza humana es capaz de sobrevivir y adaptarse a las circunstancias. Me ha cautivado la historia y su sencilla forma de explicarla en primera persona.
Stealing in Siberia?
If Siberia was the place thieves were exiled to, was there an even worse place for Siberian thieves?p.
It was very confusing.p. 185 If I had any sense I would have given up then, but I come from a long line of stubborn idiots.p. 219 On the verge of tears, I wanted to say, But haven't you found out, lady, that when everything is strange, nothing in particular is?
How is it you haven't found that out, here in Siberia?(Read right after A Mountain of Crumbs.)
Exile to the brutal wilderness of the steppe becomes salvation from an even more unthinkable fate had they been left behind (at one point, Esther describes her mother's anguish that on the day they were taken from their home: her brother shows up, the soldiers ask if he's one of them; wishing to spare him from her own fate, his mother denies he's part of the family; later, as news of the holocaust emerges, carries it as her life's largest regret).What I loved about this story was that despite her terrible ordeal, the physical hardship unimaginable to me (no winter coat or boots, knitting with frozen hands on a sweater made of worn out material, for a rich woman who has outgrown it by the time it's finished), Esther remains a young girl trying to find her place among her friends at school.
سال 1941 روسها استر ده ساله و خانوادهی یهودیش رو تبعید میکنند سیبری. این داستان واقعی پنج سال زندگیشون توی تبعیده. کنار روایت تاریخ در دل داستان، برامون از سختی این شکل از تبعید، اردوگاههای کار، دوری از خونه، رفتن به مدرسهی جدید و کار کردن وقت کودکی میگه، از این که آدم تا کجا میتونه تنگ اومدن شرایط رو تاب بیاره و چطور تلاش میکنه برای بقا و ادامه دادن و امید ساختن. ویژگیش شاید روایت شدنش از زبان کودک خانوادهست. اگه با بچههای پناهنده کار میکنید حتماً بخونیدش. اگه در حوزهی کودک کار میکنید، پدرید یا
کنار روایت تاریخ در دل داستان، برامون از سختی‌ این شکل از تبعید، اردوگاه‌های کار، دوری از خونه، رفتن به مدرسه‌ی جدید و کار کردن وقت کودکی می‌گه، از این که آدم‌ تا کجا می‌تونه تنگ اومدن شرایط رو تاب بیاره و چطور تلاش می‌کنه برای بقا و ادامه دادن و امید ساختن.
بعد از خوندن داستان نمی‌دونستم باید از این همه قدرت تاب آوردن بشر خوشحال باشم یا ناراحت، ولی هر از گاهی وقتی توی صندلی تاکسی فرورفتم یاد استر و بافتنی بافتن میفتم و دلم نمی‌خواد بیشتر فرو برم، دلم می‌خواد بپیوندم بهش یا ازش بپرسم چطوری می‌تونی؟ به نظرم اگه خسته‌اید و درمونده هم بد نیست بخونیدش
I read this when I was young, and it has stuck with me since though I don't quite remember the plot, only the theme. I would love to reread this one day.
Hundreds of thousands of Polish Jews made Esther's journey and lived to tell the tale--far more than survived by staying in Poland and hiding in the attics or factories of their kindly gentile neighbors.
But it's the latter stories we like to tell, in America, because they emphasize Christian goodness.
If you want the stories of Jews who struggled through impossible conditions on their own, you often need to turn to unpublished survivor interviews and narratives.
But that doesn't make it a rare story.
The Endless Steppe is an autobiographical novel, written by a Jewish woman of Polish origin, Esther Hautzig, née Rudomin.
This region became infamous for hosting labor/concentration camps for political enemies of the Soviets.
The Rudomins were accused of being Jewish and capitalists.
Fortunately for her and many Polish deportees, a Russian-American pact saved them years of laboring in a Siberian camp.
However, they couldn't still leave Siberia and so they suffered great hardships for the following four years.
So I think The Endless Steppe has much to offer to the reader, both in terms of education and entertainment.
Picked this up during our latest heat wave.
A fascinating true story about a Jewish Polish family deported to Siberia during WWII.
I am impressed with Esther's ingenuity as her family struggles to survive and by her shifting feelings for the steppe and its people.Years later, Hautzig was a publicist for Crowell Publishing.
She had the clever idea of marketing Maud Hart Lovelace's Betsy's Wedding with wedding invitations and the like.
She even put her needlework skills (so essential during her time in Siberia) to use by sewing a "Betsy" wedding dress.Last read: 11-15-2006
Interesting story of a Jewish family surviving WWII. In this case, they were sent to Siberia, which is not a story that I had heard before. It's incredible how much they struggled to survive, and yet (**spoiler alert**) at the end Esther feels sad to leave -- which is a shock to her mother and to the reader. I guess it shows that any place can become home when you have friends and family close to you.
Really good and life-changing.
Read long, long ago and long forgotten. Good to be reminded of it on Goodreads. Powerful read based on a true story.
Only the strength of family sustains them and gives them hope for the future.Characters: The characters of this book develop at an extremely intriguing rate that aid to the pity you feel for them.
Just knowing that the hardness that the characters bear throughout this novel actually fell upon human beings, is devastating.
I gave the characters of this novel 4.5/5 BookStars!Plot The plot of this book was very fast paced and informative, but not so much that you could not follow or that you were bored by it.
I give the plotline of," The Endless Steppe,: 5/5 BookStars!Content: I could not get over the extreme detail in this book.
I gave this overall book 5/5 BookStars!
I loved the way Esther puts family forth more than her own needs of survival.
I hate the way the villains, the soldiers are so cruel and harsh at her even though she is only a child, and she doesn’t get treated like a human being.
However, there were a couple of good figures which I think are the companions that are the real helpers of this family surviving this journey.
The way those generous people go out of their way to help is just unbelievable considering everyone was a prisoner and constantly acting like animals just for food.
Thankfully I remembered how I really wanted to read it and now at 29, I did so!Esther grew up in a rich Jewish family in Poland during WWII and her family was shipped out to Siberia to work labor until they were able to have more leniency once Russia was fighting against the Germans.
This book shows her true life upbringing for the few years she spent in Siberia.
It was not always a joyful book, considering the life that she lived and the time period she endured through, but it was a very good book that I wish I did read as a pre-teen and recommend for any pre-teen currently.
Although this is a childern's literature book, I found it to be engrossing. It is a Polish woman's memoir of forceably being sent with her family when she was 10 to Siberia by the Russians. Her family's crime: being capitalists. The author describes how the family survived in the vast open, harsh environment of Siberia, and their efforts to adjust to their new poverty and political climate of communisim. Esther remained in Siberia for about 3 years, during WWII, and despite her difficult times, she learned to love the steppes.
I read this book to see if it would be a good one to recommend to my students. It is Esther Hautzig's autobiographical account of her family being sent to the barren, frozen steppes of Siberia during WWII and how they survive the hardships there. This is a Jewish family with some wealth living in Poland before they are forced from their home and herded into cattle cars. Their experiences are harrowing, but she tells the story with hope and even humor. "It radiates optimism and the resilience of the human spirit."
My mom unloaded this on me with several other of her book club's past picks. I read it in a couple of hours on our ride home. It is the autobiographical story of a young Jewish girl living in exile in Russia during WWII. Unlike other reviewers here, I did not think the book was slow paced. I really liked it.
I read this in school sometime in the seventies. It was a life shaping book for me, mainly because it gave a view of a different life, a different place, and hardships I hoped I'd never know. I've recommended it to several young people over the years and all but one came back to tell me the book had the same effect on them.
I read this in my youth and decided to re-read it. I love that it is not too heavy. Many more gruesome details could have been shared, and yet you still get an amazing view into what it may have been like during this terrible time of history. This is a great story of survival, family love, and triumph. This is a humbling read that I highly recommend.
This book was amazing. I felt connected to the characters and I have fallen in love with the characters!
When I was in 5th grade, our librarian read this aloud to our class. It was the most memorable book for me, and it remains one of my alltime favorite young adult books!
An autobiographical account of a young Jewish girl and her family's experience when exiled to Siberia from Poland during WWII.
5 years of hardship including hard labour, poor diet, poverty and poor conditions are related with grace and also, surprisingly, with humour.
I actually laughed out loud at times even though what was happening was not something one would normally laugh at.
Esther imbued the story with wit and charm despite the fact that they were without liberty and everyday life was a struggle.
Sadly, after the war, they discovered very few of their extended family had survived one other atrocity of the time, namely the Nazi extermination program.
