https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/971581.The_Tragedy_of_X
Hãy tưởng tượng thế này: Người quyền cao chức trọng nhìn thấy là cười toe toét ngay, người bị kết án oan nhìn thấy là muốn dựa dẫm ngay, hai vị cảnh sát khá là thô bạo (nhưng ít ra được viết là có chút não), chuyên hét vào mặt thiên hạ trong truyện, ngờ vực tài phá án của Drudy Lane hết quá 2/3 truyện nhìn thấy cũng chỉ biết cười trừ, cho tham gia phá án, bực lắm rồi cũng không gầm gè được quá ba lời =)) Mấy màn này sẽ khá là lố bịch nếu không nhờ tác giả đủ điêu luyện để viết ra được nhân vật Drury Lane thực sự thuyết phục: Tao nhã và có học thức, có phong cách quý tộc, làm việc từ tốn tạo cảm giác an toàn và an tâm tuyệt đối.
Tấn bi kịch đầu tiên và một cuốn trinh thám cổ điển nên đúng là nó hơi bị lang mang thật.
Cốt truyện hay, nhưng cách dẵn dắt có phần hơi lề mề.
Cuốn này đọc như kiểu tác giả muốn chơi trò "Ai thông minh hơn ông Lane?" vậy.
=))Có thể nói đây là một trong những lần đọc dài cả tháng cho một cuốn sách mà vẫn đu đến cuối.
Không phải là cuốn này không hay, mà chẳng qua đang trong lúc ít có thời gian và lười đọc sách của mình thôi.
Well-formulated and neatly explained mystery, with too many side frills and nothing particularly exciting.Not that it’s boring, I suppose it’s quite elaborate for its time but overall there’s a straight template feel about the story and its characters.Drury Lane’s ‘handicap’ was there merely as a page-filler for it bore little significance to his deductive analysis and was barely mentioned after the first few introductory chapters. Only DeWitt was mildly interesting as a character dealing with some inner conflict.
Sau khi đọc xong "Tấn bi kịch X" thì có lẽ mình sẽ trở thành fanboy của ngài Drury Lane mấy thôi.
Mà thú thật, một người lịch thiệp, tao nhã, quý phái như ngài thì có hẳn một fan club cũng không có gì quá ngạc nhiên.
Hung thủ đúng là kẻ mà dù ta đã lờ mờ đoán ra nhưng không thể nào nắm bắt được.
Mình cũng đã há hốc trợn mắt khi biết tên hung thủ cùng tỷ đoạn của hắn.
Thiết nghĩ, trừ ngài Lane ra chẳng ai có thể bắt được tên cáo già này.
Quite the mystery....clues, people, places...you need paper and pencil to keep the players straight...but, the clues are all there....just buried under a blizzard of useless information...still...I recommend it...and I will be reading the other three books in the series
Berawal dari sanalah Inspector Thumm dan District Attorney Bruno mempercayai kemampuan Lane dalam memecahkan perkara kriminal dan kali ini mereka membutuhkan bantuan Lane untuk mengusut kasus pembunuhan yang terjadi di sebuah gerbong trem.***Bagi saya karakter Drury Lane tampak lebih menarik dibanding Ellery Queen.
Karena Lane menggunakan pengetahuan, pengalaman, dan skill-nya sebagai seorang aktor ketika melakukan investigasi.Melihat fakta bahwa Lane sebenarnya memiliki keterbatasan dalam hal pendengaran, hal ini membuat saya semakin kagum akan sosok Drury Lane.***Misteri yang disuguhkan di The Tragedy of X ini memang tipikal misteri di novel2 seri Ellery Queen.
"Những đứa trẻ lười suy nghĩ không có gì ngoài mộng tưởng hão huyền"#Tấn_bi_kịch_X #ElleryQueen- Thể loại: Trinh thám cổ điển, suy luận logic- Điểm 9.5/10- Nội dung: Sau buổi tiệc ăn mừng công bố việc đính hôn của Longstreet và ả diễn viên Cherry Browne, gã quyết định rủ mọi người cùng đi đến một bữa tiệc nhỏ tại Tây Englewood.
Từ đấy dẫn đến những án mạng khác của một âm mưu mà đến cuối cùng khi được Lane lý giải, Thumm và Bruno vẫn quá ngạc nhiên.- Nhận xét:+ Về mặt nội dung: phải nói trinh thám cổ điển chưa bao giờ làm mình thất vọng.
I read the four Barnaby Ross books periodically to immerse myself in the eccentric world of Drury Lane in his Hudson estate, the same environs of Philo Vance of the S.
The novel is straight police procedural, until the police get bogged down and resort to consulting Drury Lane.
As always, reading the four books in the proper order (Tragedy of X, Tragedy of Y, Tragedy of Z, Drury Lane's Last Case) is always recommended, as each tends to refer to previous exploits.See my list of characters and synopsis here >> http://readinggoldenagemysteries.blog...
It is slightly agitating to read.
It is too too long.
I felt like I was lost in the mist in the middle of nowhere at all.
In fact, I had to grope my way around a massive bunk of words and dialogues to figure the details and to remember them (plenty of details by the way).
On the other hand, like many other detective stories, I was thrilled to follow Mr Lane's journey in order to find the perpetrator.
The story could have been better if the writing itself hadn't been lengthened exceedingly and the redundant details had been omitted.
In general, I admire Mr Lane.
The story is quite a mystery.
Plays host to the same problems with pacing that i usually encounter with Queen.
The first half felt GLACIAL.
It does pick up in the second half, and there are a couple of neat chains of deduction.
The final solution hinges a bit too strongly on elements introduced right before the reveal, which echoes how I felt about another Queen I read not too long ago.I'll still read more Queen, but again, I still feel that A) he lacks the economy of Christie and that B) his solutions are more contrived and rely considerably more on the ingenuity of the criminal.
Về tình tiết thì khá hay. Truyên theo phong cách trinh thám cổ điển, mọi tình tiết đều được trình ra cho khán giả tự do suy luận. Nhân vật chính cũng thuộc dạng thám tử ghế bành, ngồi một chỗ nghe kể lại rồi phá án.Về nhân vật thì hơi chuối, cứ như cố tình đối lập tay thanh tra cảnh sát đầu to óc bé với ông thám tử.
3.5 / 5 Khá ổn. Rất logic. Tuy nhiên cách hành văn không hay cho lắm.
I love classic style mystery.illegal investigation lol
As a longtime Ellery Queen fan (to the point that I can't eradicate from my mind this EQ homage I've thought of, in parallel with my Ed McBain homage The City in These Pages), I leapt eagerly on the very first EQ novel, written by the Dannay/Lee team and featuring not Ellery and his Dad but the deaf Shakespearean actor Drury Lane, who lives surrounded by dwarf servants in his suburban palace, The Hamlet, and happily courts entreaties by the NYPD, in the bulky shape of Inspector Thumm (a sort of ur-Velie, albeit of a different rank; I kept expecting his forename to be revealed as Tom).
He will use both skills as he helps Inspector Thumm and District Attorney Bruno track down a ruthless killer intent on evening old scores.The story opens with Thumm and Bruno driving up to Lane's fortress estate on a mission to solicit his help with their latest murderous puzzle.
But there is no evidence and not even a clue to point the police in the correct direction.Enter Drury Lane.
Two more men will die before Lane can help the police put the cuffs on the villain.The story is an interesting variation on the locked room mystery.
Solve that and you'll be ahead of the police...and Drury Lane.An interesting mystery with clues galore and twists and turns throughout.
From the authors- Ellery Queen a mystery featuring not Ellery Queen but a different detective- Drury Lane a retired actor who lives on an estate called The Hamlet.
Lane is lured in to help on a baffling case (because he helped out on another by reading about the incident in the paper and calling in the answer.) In typical Ellery Queen style the characters are all a bit larger than life.
and it may seem that Lane can see the obvious things that many miss in the chaos of all the sorted events.
Certainly not as complex as the Ellery Queen (the detective writer) series, but fun all the same.
Classic 'consulting detective' murder mystery: in 2012, the #14 novel in English on the Tozai Mystery Best 100.
In 1930s New York, the police invite the amusingly arrogant Shakespearean actor Drury Lane to suggest how to proceed in a murder investigation that has them stumped.
The infodumps are voluminous and intriguingly detailed regarding means of transit: streetcars, ferries, and railways are important to the plot.
The Drury Lane books are evidently much bigger in Japan than they are in the English-speaking world.
Maybe the Japanese translation is amazing.
Or maybe it's the 3-4 instances of casually racist language used by secondary characters that make the English versions unpopular.
First published in 1932, I think this is best appreciated for its place in the history of the American Crime Novel. This is one of a series featuring the amateur detective Drury Lane, whose deductive powers repeatedly outstrip those of the police. Lane's notion is that the police are looking for a quick close, looking at the murder from the crime back, whereas Lane is trying to understand from the precipitating event forward to the murder. This one was clever enough, but don't look for character development.
Disappointing 30s mystery from the Ellery Queen team writing as Barnaby Ross, with retired actor Drury Lane acting as detective. The first half is fun but the plotting becomes rather baroque, and the wrap-up takes so long, I lost interest 15 pages from the end and almost didn't bother to finish it. As is often the problem, the "who" who "done it" is someone we're not very invested in, and the reason for the murders isn't very interesting. I probably won't bother with any other Drury Lane books.
The first victim dies on a crowded cross-town bus. The second victim dies on a ferry. What connects these deaths, if not that the second victim had seen something incriminating about the first crime? That's how District Attorney Bruno and Inspector Thumm reason--but retired actor, profoundly deaf Drury Lane has other ideas. And when the third murder occurs, he's the only one who can help identify the real killer.
Drury Lane, an actor, solves the case. Regretably not before three men are murdered, but after all it is a murder mystery.GoodThe mystery is intriguing.Not goodThis old book has some offensive sterotypes which would never fly today. The wrap up takes FOREVER!
An entertaining mystery, and certainly a novel murder (the 1st one, anyway!). Drury Lane makes an interesting detective, but the solution is wildly convoluted. Anyone solving this one deserves the name Einstein...or they cheated.
An all time classic in mystery fiction and one of my favorite books of all time. The mystery is simple and yet elusive. My only regret is that the other books in this series do not measure up to this one.
Really strange to read such a dated work with all the ethnic stereotypes ok to print...interesting but disturbing. Not a fabulous mystery but has the Sherlock Holmes touch of noticing the small details to build the bigger picture.
Convoluted plot, but excellent narration of audiobook.
First Ellery Queen in recent times though I think I read one (some?) many years ago - when I was a teenager. Definitely will be reading more.
Read this book in the 60s as I was a fan of Ellery Queen. Enjoyed this book and the two following. Hard to compare to current times as today's mysteries have more twists.
read some time in 1987
According to the Haycraft-Queen list, the first Drury Lane book, and another pseudonym for the Ellery Queen duo.
