https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16158535-a-hundred-summers
Everyone thinks Kiki is Lily and Nick’s secret love child from their affair in 1931, but, of course, she is not.
I think Budgie would have been a more effective character without the blackmail and childhood abuse; just make her simply jealous of Lily and Nick.
Additionally, Lily's obtuseness about many things in the book was annoying (Kiki's real father, the snubbing, her mother's true colors, Budgie's reason for marrying Nick, etc.).The Epilogue.
Of course, once Lily and Nick are free to get married, they take in Kiki and Lily’s father and have two perfect boys and a perfect daughter.
Really loved this book. It is admittedly a little sappy, schmaltzy, and a little contrived, but it is also a fantastic beach read for those of us who love the 1930's. It felt like my favorite old black and white movies, and I would love to see this made into a movie. Great read.
This was a major reason I even read this, and was so disappointed.About a quarter into this book I knew I was taking major chances even as a part of me realized this was not gonna end well But I wanted to give it a shot at redemption, thinking may be the mystery will salvage the book but alas none of that happened.So let me tell you more about the book and the reasons it's such a huge disappointment.Lily and Nick first meet when Budgie takes her for a game her boyfriend Graham Pendleton' team is playing and plain old stupid innocent little Lily is smitten And not the one to be left behind, Nick is taken with her too already Its another thing that both of these characters individually or as a couple can make a bunch of rocks seem more interesting in comparison.
There’s something about Beatriz Williams writing that makes you want to fold yourself into it and never come out.Lily Dane, our narrator, uncovers the sordid story of her past and present.
I have never read a book so perfectly structured between the past and the present.
I would have willingly immersed myself in 100 more pages to learn more about the men and women behind the “darlings” and “my dears” than to catch glimpses at key moments.When I finally finished the book, it took awhile to pull myself back to present day.
The more I think about “A Hundred Summers,” the snarkier I get.Some questions:What was the real attraction between Lily and Nick?
Why ever were Lily and Budgie best friends?
Could there be a more gullible person than Lily?
Why did 5-year-old Kiki speak like an adolescent?
Why was the character whose secrets caused untold heartache a total cipher?
Why did gossipy Aunt Julie keep her mouth shut when it really counted?
What was with all the smoking and drinking?
And Nick’s “piratical” eyes?
did I really think the novel would redeem itself at the end?
I guess I’m gullible too.
This covered the great New England hurricane of 1938, set in the fictional oceanfront community of Seaview, Rhode Island.Summer 1938 : Lily Dane has just returned to Seaview with her family expecting another placid summer season among familiar traditions and friendships when the Greenwalds decide to take up residence in Seaview.
This story wasn't action packed by any means...it's a story of friendship, betrayal, family secrets and the lengths people will go to cover their indiscretions and above all, enduring love.
I love how realistic Beatriz Williams makes her characters, her settings.
I love books dated back in the 20’s, 30’s, 40’s etc and this one really made me feel like I was back in the 30’s. Loved this from beginning to end. Highly recommend!!

Was OK - to be fair, this is not my type of book. It started out in a very promising fashion but got increasingly over the top and melodramatic as it went on. The men's dialogue is SUPER cheesy; this might have been a record number of eye rolls for me. (Well, maybe not....I forgot about the one Nicholas Sparks book I read.)On the up side, some interesting 1930's atmosphere and some memorable characters. I especially liked flamboyant and flirtatious Aunt Julie and stoic Mrs. Hubert. Just a little too much soap opera for me.
Is everyone really against Nick because his father is Jewish?What an era that must have been...people lost their fortunes, committed suicide, and kept secrets...all for what...Everything sort of comes crashing down the summer that these people are back together at Seaview...Lily can't keep Kiki away from Nick...Budgie can't stop drinking and lying and there is even an old friend from college who is now a relief pitcher for the Yankees in the picture!It literally takes a hurricane...well, almost...to knock some sense into everyone...oh, yes, and a war, too!What I loved about this book...Loved the era, loved the alternating years, loved the places...especially Seaview.
Lots of people are calling this a good " beach " or " summer read" and I agree.
Set in the 1930's on the Rhode Island coast, it is a romance with lots of twists and turns and a glimpse of high society at a time when everything seemed to be a scandal.
It was an interesting time period , and I kept thinking of my grandmother who was part of this generation when women's lives were so different than those of women today.
It seems like many things were " swept under the rug " back then, and a lot of situations were governed by the concept of "what would people say ?
Beatriz Williams loves to write historical fiction and I love to read it.The historical event of this book, A Hundred Summers, centers on The Great Hurricane of 1938, which roared into Rhode Island on September 21, 1938.
Hurricanes in the North East have a 1% chance of occurring each year, averaging once every hundred summers.
Hurricane Sandy struck less than 100 years later, in 2012.The 'heroine' of this book is Lily Dane.
Of course we must flash back to how they met and how their relationships transpired.
Of course, there is a mystery or mysteries that need to be solved.Enjoyed the book and want to recommend to my historical fiction fellow readers.4 stars
Pure and simple this is a gripping love story that spans nearly a decade in the lives of Lily, Nick and Budgie.
The pain of the breakup and spending time with Nick and Budgie is almost more than she can bear.
Alternating from 1931 to 1938 the author brings the two time periods together giving you a good picture of the astonishing story of these three people as they head into a major hurricane that will change life for everyone.I love period stories and this one is enthralling and hard to put down.
I've spent a lot of time lately going through Beatriz Williams books. Luckily did I have a lot of them available as audiobooks. Like this one. It's a pure joy listening to Williams books. In A Hundred Summers are we introduced to Lily Dane who has returned to the summerhouse at Seaview, Rhode Island. However, her peaceful summer is interrupted when Nick and Budgie Greenwald arrives. The couple has just married and they are there to restore Budgie's family's old house. Lily and Budgie used to be
In A Hundred Summers are we introduced to Lily Dane who has returned to the summerhouse at Seaview, Rhode Island.
Through the book, we get to know more about Lily's past through flashbacks as the summer progress and Lily try to get used to having Budgie and Nick back in her life.As usual is the story Beatrix Williams has woven together fabulous.
I spent some blissful hours listening to this book while working and I must say that if there is one thing Williams can do is take what seems to be a kind of straightforward story and throw in some twists.
I loved the character of Lily, she's an identifiable personality.
Loved them together.
What a crazy ride of a love story.
I loved the way it alternated chapters with time periods, giving you a little bit of the puzzle at a time.
The slow reveal of the "true" story was great and I built up so much anticipation.
Truly I just got emotionally involved in this story and couldn't stop reading.
I had hoped to read this beachside, instead I read it mostly on my porch during thunderstorms (truly one of my favorite times to read though
(hide spoiler)]When I was the merchandising supervisor in my bookselling days, I always put together an endcap of beach reads for the summer months.
It's actually a little disheartening how many women's fiction books have such similar covers and it's easy to dismiss them all as homogeneous, mindless stories of sex and crying.
If I were still in merchandising, I'd be putting this book up on top of the endcap: the cover fits in thematically (though a little more interesting than most) but it's also the best kind of diversionary reading.
I really love Beatriz Williams' books. I was sucked into this one from the first page. Extremely well written. I read it all in one sitting. This is a perfect summer beach read. Too bad I'm too impatient to wait for our August vacation.
Terrible. Bad. Awful. Resist your urge to identify this book as your 2013 beach read and just walk away. Terrible, impatient character development. You can't even begin to figure out why the two, main female characters - Lily and Budgie - ever became friends, much less had a conversation. Contrived plot developments. I read "Tigers in Red Weather" last summer and was looking for something similar for August - this ain't it. I left this book on the shelf at a vacation house we rented - and felt badly about leaving it because it was such a stinker.
This was entertaining, but a bit melodramatic. I liked the setting - 1930s New York and Rhode Island - and the love story was romantic and believable. It veered a bit into soap opera at times, though, so I wouldn't recommend it to everyone.
Mindlessly enjoyable as I was reading it, but unbearably cheesy and melodramatic at points. And normally I wouldn't mind that if the story was juicy enough, but the insta-love and black and white characters (Lily and Nick are essentially perfect and Budgie and Graham are eeeevil - what happened to shades of grey?) took the annoyance factor up a notch.
Just like Overseas, Beatrice's debut novel, A Hundred Summers was extremely difficult to put down right from the start.
In 1931 Lily and Budgie are best friends in college, where Lily meets and falls in-love with Nick.
In the summer of 1938 Lily returns to her family's summer vacation home in Seaview, Rhode Island, with her sister Kiki, and Budgie comes with her husband Nick...yes, Lily's old boyfriend.
How did Budgie and Nick end up getting married?
Why is Lily taking care of her sister all the time?
The love that Nick and Lily share in 1931 is like one you see in the movies.
The word cigarette(s) appears 131 times in this book. I've never seen so much drinking and smoking in all my life! Even pregnant women.Awesome book though. There were times that I absolutely could not put this book down. Highly recommended!!!
The writing is so bad, it's comical.
What could be better than reading about beaches, duplicitous friendships and summer romance in the heart of August???
Budgie has her sights on Graham, the all American pretty boy, while Lily is drawn to Nick, a Jewish boy with big dreams.
Summer 1938 = Lily is at her summer home at Seaview, Rhode Island, taking care of her 6 year old sister Kiki.
She is living an isolated and lonely life when Budgie and Nick, newlyweds, decide to fix up Budgie’s old family home at Seaview and spend the summer there.
How did Nick and Budgie wind up together?
Unfortunately, I found myself underwhelmed by this cliched, melodramatic story.I give Ms. Williams kudos for her attention to historical detail.
The setting seems about right, and most of the dialogue seems in line with the times, although I will add Kiki to the long list of child characters in literature who speak with a vocabulary someone that age would never use.
I see absolutely no resemblance whatsoever between this novel and du Maurier's work.
Overall, I might have liked this book better had I not had such high expectations.
This was my first novel by this author and I found myself completely immersed into it. This was historical fiction based in the 1930's. This is an era that I love to read about, so it was easy to be pulled into this. The author did a great job at creating the setting, especially with the dialogue, but also with the mind set. The romance was a large part of this book, but it was more in a 'star crossed lovers' way. There were also some great twists woven in. So 4 stars.
Decent enough for a beach read.
More like a soap opera in a book.
(No Doppler Radar back then.) The author takes the time to explain more about it after the story ends, and offers several books for further reading or research.
Now that, I like.
Thank you Ms. Williams, for an enjoyable book, doing your homework, and the extra credit for your readers.
much appreciated.I already have a hold on one of your books, "The Secret Life of Violet Grant" Cheers!Update: Nov.23, 2016; Currently reading, "The Secret Life of Violet Grant," finally.
I loved the setting of the Rhode Island coast line. This was a quick, easy, somewhat predictable story but there were a couple of surprises. I like the time period which was 1931 to the early 1940's. Beach read/ chick lit. I enjoyed it enough that I want to read more by this author, something with more dept.
A totally enjoyable read. I liked this much more than Beatriz Williams' Overseas novel. The settings, the descriptions and the characters all made for a book I just couldn't put down at times. Great summer read!
Definitely a great summer read!
There's a main clubhouse (which I couldn't help but equate to the one in Dirty Dancing for some reason) and in it, are housed the secondary characters who definitely have some strong views on what is okay and NOT okay.The characters themselves are well done.
Kiki loves everyone, and her quest to just be a kid and play in the sand is, well....endearing.
Well, she is definitely the main character as the story is told from her perspective.
As for Budgie (great name, btw), I think we all know someone like her.
Recommended as a summer read.
