https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/127584.Dragonquest
The stories are interesting.
When I got to the end of the book, and I found myself wondering what happened in the next one, I had a flash of inspiration: I would much rather read the plot summary than the actual plot.
What I like about this series is the hierarchy, the relationships between people, the structure of the world, and how the events in the story impact that society.
But since I don't like or care about any of the individual people, it's more than enough to just read what happened next, in bullet points or on a timeline.So fuck it.
Apparently our hero sees nothing wrong with having sex with a woman who is "fighting him." He's also a big fan of domestic violence: "It was too bad you couldn't beat a Weyrwoman with impunity.
Her dragon wouldn't permit it but a sound thrashing was what Kylara badly needed."Look, I didn't like Kylara either.
But oh my god that does not make it okay for the hero to want to beat her.
Ugh, Anne McCaffrey, Your Issues.Despite Anne McCaffrey's issues, which I knew about going into this, I like this world enough to keep reading until she really pisses me off.
Fantastic.
I am able to just immerse myself into this world.
I can feel like I belong there.
The characters are fantastically written and I feel myself becoming attached to them.
There are also some that I just despise.
I love this world that McCaffrey created.
I love the history of it, but these books that I am reading now are at the heart of the world and what I loved about Pern.
This has been such a great reread.
I am thoroughly enjoying reliving all of these events that were so long forgotten.
There is love and tragedy and perseverance.
Great series to read.
In my review of Dragonflight, I compared that starter Pern novel to a series premiere of a television show; although it was a bit rough around the edges, it showed some signs of promise. Dragonquest, although still not perfect, was an improvement over its prequel. The story was just as good, and the writing was better. Now, I just hope that the upswing continues throughout the rest of the Pern series, as long as it is.
Well, we found out dragons can travel in time as well as space, and people from the past don't get along well with people in the present...
2.5 stars. A decent sequel to Dragonflight. The world created by McCaffrey was well done as was the description of the "link" between dragon and rider. The plot and some of the characters failed to keep my interest the entire time and I did find myself waiting for something to happen. Overall, decent but not great. Nominee: Hugo Award Best Science Fiction Novel Nominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel
I love those cross-over books that feel like fantasy but you discover have a solid, SF premise underneath.I absorbed the Pern books so long ago in my reading life (they were some of my first SFF, loaned to me by one of my father's PhD students; she was my book provider for a long time in my teens) that I don't think I've ever really watched the progress of the story McCaffrey unfolded.I remember I got a delightful surprise with The White Dragon and later Dragonsdawn as we really began to discover the Ancients (oh, how I loved Dragonsdawn when it came out).
These are peculiar books that are beginning to take on an interesting shape.The first novel is something I would probably describe as misogynistic, classist, and maybe racist (in what it implies about genetic superiority), and for about half of this I was thinking the same thing.
I expect a certain amount of misogyny in fantasy novels, but I was disappointed in it from a female author. Seriously the most interesting thing the female characters did in this story was when two of the female characters got into a stupendous catfight (dragonfight) in which they both end up dragonless and almost destroyed.Still I will probably give the next book a go. They are quick reads after all.
Summer Fantasy Fest read #16
The second part of the series and this trilogy is the same well written as the first and has the same virtues that made me like it.
In this we add some interesting characters and a little more emotion inside the pages and so we have an equally positive result.
The problem, however, is that apart from some political power games, our heroes are mainly concerned with issues of...
gardening.
but in the author's hands this gardening becomes equally epic and heroic with battles of more military books and this balances the situation.
So this book is an excellent follow-up.
F'lar and F'nor are definitely the main characters rather than Lessa* and I remain frustrated with some of their actions and views on women.F'nor's scene with Brekke was the worst part (more not so consensual sex presented as swooningly romantic) but overall less of the stupid underlying misogyny and infantalizing/domination of women by men.
And who doesn't love Fandarel's brief appearances and passion for technical efficiency?*In fact my major complaint about this book is how Lessa's triumphant solution to saving Pern in Dragonflight is *literally attributed* to F'lar in at least one scene of dialog in Dragonquest.
If I can't have a dragon, then I want a firelizard!I made the mistake of deciding to re-read book 1 of The Dragonriders of Pern by audio this time around. And yup, I am once again obsessed with this world and these dragons/riders.
There are a lot of them, so there is a fair bit of uncomfortable reading early in the book, it takes a while to get into is what I am suggesting.As always, the true charm for me with McCaffreys early books (well, aside from the lovely world building, the charming fiction, the good characters and the nice writing style) is the level of social commentary that is incorporated into the fictional story.
If you think that is bad though, try reading a few of the Mills and Boons or bodice rippers written in the 70's - you will be horrified, rape used to be thought completely ok in romance novels.Another said they thought it might be racist.
10/2014 Buddy Reread with Don as we transverse the past to remember what we have forgotten.Holy Crackerdoodle!There was a lot going on in this story.
We finally get our fire lizards and they're as adorable and excitable as I remember.
Fandarel, Robinton, and F'lar are the triumvirate leading Pern into the future.
F'lar unique position puts others in the line of fire as they can't endanger him.Of course...
A lot of unwarranted forgiveness and deferring problems to the future that does not sit well with me.
*huff*Loved the fire lizards.
Loved the white dragon and its unique situation.
Loved the innovations.
There is a good future possible, now.
Jumping ahead 7 Turns, I felt like this book settled me into the continued plot very comfortably.
I was thinking I should really feel the absence of swordplay more in these books, but the way the world is set up really seems to not need swords and sorcery—more than a fantasy, these are works of hard science fiction, dealing with the colonization of planets and celestial occurrences.
I’m glad that the third book deals with that aspect of the story—a white dragon sounds awesome.
The developing relationships, emotional turmoils and childhood scandals appealed to me greatly and I love to read how they unfolded.The narrative although complete fantasy comes to life with the political conflicts and the breaking of social customs being easy to relate to even today.
The map at the front is also very helpful to track the characters across Pern as they fly between.Recommended to all lovers of fantasy, can wait to read the next one!!P.S. If any one finds a fire lizard egg please let me have one!!
When Thread begins to fall out of schedule Pern is thrown into high agitation, aggravating troubled political relationships and sending dragonriders on a new quest: to stop the threat of Thread for good.
For such a bold aim, Dragonquest is markedly undirected.
While largely political the plot lacks politicking (McCaffrey's antagonists are problematically characterized--there's a disgusting amount of slut-shaming--and blatantly wrong), the pacing is poor, and there's almost no "quest" to speak of: characters themselves admit that the solution to their problem is uninspiring and disappointingly mundane.
But McCaffrey's worldbuilding is heavyhanded, her writing clunky, and what little good the book has fails to save it from its plentiful flaws.
I didn't enjoy Dragonquest and don't recommend it.
I've been very reluctant to continue this series though I did try a month or so ago to read Dragonquest and was so darn confused that I gave up on it.
Again it's very confusing but I'm determined to read it this time since I've already committed to White Dragon for August.
The only real issue I had with the book was the rape scene.
It's one thing when it's necessitated by the dragon's heat and unavoidable but this was pure rape.p.161 "He wanted to be gentle but, unaccountably B fought him.
This installment was much more political with less thread fighting as some major changes are made on Pern.
F'lar has always been a leader but tried to give the leadership over all away but was forced to take it.
Somehow F'lar as been cast as the bad guy in some reader's minds because he tends to hold his cards close to his chest.
If the poor guy shared most of his thoughts of his imagined future for Pern he would have a revolution on his hands.
Pern under F'lar is slowly becoming more open.
Changes are coming to Pern but will the people accept them?
I still love this book for what it is and for what it sets up.
At the same time, I was totally bowled over by a certain dubious consent scene and other attitudes legitimising domestic violence that weren't part of my awareness when I first read these books (many times) as a teenager.
The words might not change, but times and attitudes do.
Having said that, DRAGONS.
DRAGONS.
DRAGONS.
RUTH <3 Ultimately, the core Pern books champion moving away from dated attitudes to more enlightened, civilised ideals, methods, technologies and social systems, so they'll always have that trend in their favour.
Initial impression: So far, slower and more boring than the first, with more traditional gender roles.Final conclusion: It seems like maybe Anne McCaffrey had nothing going on so she decided to try to write a follow-up to Dragonflight, but when she started, she couldn't figure out what to write about.
Some of the times/dates are off, with certain characters being too young or too old to mesh with what did/didn't happen in the first book.
Most disappointing of all is the complete role reversal of Lessa, who in the first book was a strong woman.

Another trip down memory land to the land of Pern. Once you get your head around all the names of the people and dragons its smooth sailing into this brilliant story. I particularly love when the Eggs hatch :)
I'm breathless! What an ending to the second book in this series. If you want an exciting vacation to an exotic and exciting world, but can't afford one, read this series. If you want to ride a dragon, but don't know any, read this series. It's mind-blowing.
The Tyranny of Time24 May 2018 Apparently McCathry had a real problem actually writing this book, particularly since the first iteration was discarded. In a way it seems to show even with this particular iteration – it just seemed to drag on and really have no perceptible point. In fact what happened in this book could probably have been done in a book half the size (but then again I say that about lots of books, and at least it is nowhere like the bricks you see on the shelves these days). Anot
Okay, they have dragons, and these dragons were genetically bred as well, but it seems as if the process in doing that has been lost (along with a lot of other technology, such as long distance communication).
So, the book is set shortly after the original, and we have a bunch of dragon riders who have been brought forward 400 years from the past to help deal with the threat of the thread.
There is other technology that has been lost, such as the ability to communicate rapidly over long distances, which would have been quite helpful since the thread are starting to fall in random places.
Na een beetje moeizaam begin, werd dit toch nog een goed boek. Het duurde gewoon even voordat is weer gewend was aan de namen en de wereld van Pern.
She relies on canned platitudes and cliched adjectives and adverbs to create a scene or a character, and what ought to be interesting politics or conflict often just lies there, flat on the page, without life or conviction.
Pern is a pretty unique place, with a unique set of obstacles and circumstances, evoking some topical and relevant themes, and I must admit that, as much of a slog as the first 2/3 of this novel was to get through, there is something undeniably addictive about this world, and undeniably compelling about where the plot ends up, that I am almost anxious to pick up the next book and start reading.
There was just a lot of unrelated stuff happening in this one.
And all that stuff was telegraphed way in advance (just happening to introduce new characters and getting to see things from their point of view for a dozen pages or so) so there wasn't even an element of surprise to make things interesting.And what is with the name to this book?
Overall, this was a seriously anticlimactic read that's left me torn about wanting to read more from this author and this world; I like the main characters, but the lack of plot just makes the books rather uninteresting.
Whenever I find that I can't get 'into' any of the books I brought home from the library, or any I have been waiting to read,I find certain series to be cathartic.
I find I am able to turn to the world of Pern or one of her other myriad of possible universes and be comfortable and comforted.I think another reason her books, at least most of the ones I've read, have this cathartic resonance is that they aren't intense, '#1 for 45 straight weeks' type of stories, but calmer ones that -don't get me wrong there are tons of upheaval and intensity, just not continuously.
