https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23529.From_Hell
An outstanding achievement. I am in deep awe of the many components that make up this complex, riveting work of ART. First off, the illustrations are opaque & shimmery, raw and delicate, fierce and even bittersweet. The Jack the Ripper story involves different angles, & they're all portrayed here in inspiring detail. Stories & sub-stories, like molecules and atoms, arrive at a fever pitch several times in the narrative, & it really is a roller-coaster of the macabre, of the surreal, and of authentic late 20th century artistry. "From Hell" belongs in a frickin' museum!
I even hated the massive heft of the goddamn book itself, which was impossible to hold comfortably in any position, especially outside on my stoop, especially on the subway, especially anywhere except I guess sitting in a massive velvet armchair in some vast dark-wood-paneled drawing room where rich white men drink sherry and chortle over their monocles.
Alan Moore is a very insane man, and although I was blown away by Watchmen, this book made me never want to read anything else he's written ever again.
I don't fucking know, it's two years since I read it and I think I blocked most of it out.
Fuck this book, is what I'm saying.
Uh-oh, I think I like comic books now . . .
It was OK in V for Vendetta though I must admit to liking the movie a bit better because it was more grounded.
With From Hell, once again, I've seen the movie before having read the graphic novel and although the movie features Johnny Depp and a lot of opium, I liked that one better as well.Why?
Here, we get the solution to it all right off the bat and it seems like wasted potential.This graphic novel tells the story of the murders committed by one of THE most well-known serial killers of all time: Jack the Ripper.
A story doesn't have to be factual to be true, and I don't think I have read a truer story in any form than Alan Moore's From Hell.At the heart of the tale is Jack the Ripper.
It matters not a whit whether Dr. William Gull is actually Jack the Ripper.
Nor whether industrialized, fin-de-siècle, London was our clearest real world dystopia.What matters is that Alan Moore's writing and Eddie Campbell's artistry uncover a deep emotional and philosophical truth about the reverberations of the smallest actions in the world.
Keep the bits about William Gull, REALLY emphasise the importance of Masonic conspiracy theories and the connection to the crown, and then, after you're thoroughly grounded in all the blood and gore and the feeling like nothing really matters, top it all off with a dose of Alan Moore's more odd explorations in the human psyche and/or WOW mysticism.Fortunately, I've read Jerusalem.
I did, however, have a hell of a time with reading the text.

The murders are, of course, the central events of the book, and are depicted as an elaborate Masonic ritual by the killer (with pages and pages of Masonic theory to boot), but devotes considerable time to even the minor characters, a sort of pantheistic character study of an entire society.There is little doubt that From Hell is a "great work" from a strictly literary perspective.
Moore and Campbell also provide an exhaustive overview of which parts of the story are fictionalized and which have some basis in reality, an exceptionally rare move in historical graphic fiction.On the back cover, Moore states, "For my part I am concerned with cutting into and examining the still-warm corpse of history itself." This, we can all agree, he has done.
Moore knows this as well as anyone, pointing out in his afterward that the whole thing has become a silly game, a masturbatory immediately recognizable to anyone familiar with discussions on the levels of Star Wars canon or Gandalf's particular racial background.I read this not with a notion that by the end I'd come to understand the ins and outs of the Ripper case, but to witness yet another of Moore's masterful deconstructions of the stories we like to tell ourselves.
There is little sense of form or gesture, flow and movement are lacking, and worse, the stark balance between the white and black spaces--the very power of pen-and-ink work--is absent.The anatomy is particularly slipshod--especially when aping a period when anatomical precision was such a central, defining aspect of art.
And yet it all took place a century and more ago: The Jack the Ripper story, in Moore's personal fictional view, highly influenced by his favorite theoretical Ripperologist, Stephen Knight, whose theory was largely dismissed and derided in the very process of Moore and Campbell's long construction of this remarkable tome.
And the occult, always, for Moore,and feminism, and class, are backgrounds for him throughout and usually.He even admits his own crazy obsession with such events is his way of trying to make meaning of life and death and culture and media and politics and history.
I just ...don't even understand the point of it because all that stuff you find out at the end of the movie is literally the FIRST CHAPTER in this so like ...you know the entire plot twist and who committed the murders right from the start so all that's left is a bunch of pretentious rambling for 500 pages coupled with annoying sketchy black and white artwork and a lot of awkward sex scenes.
Someone else said they thought it was 'intentionally unreadable' and I mean that does sound like Moore, but it's still a dick move and awful to read.
I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted here illegally.)So in what I think is a first since opening CCLaP last year, I got a chance recently to not only read a book for the first time but also watch a movie based on it for the first time in the same week; in this case, it was the "Jack The Ripper" conspiracy tale From Hell, with the original 1999 graphic novel by Alan Moore and Eddie Campbell and the subsequent 2001 movie version by Allen and Albert Hughes, known professionally as The Hughes Brothers.
Painstakingly researched and crafted by both Alan Moore and Eddie Campbell, From Hell tells the tale of the White Chapel and Jack the Ripper murders.
Moore brings all the research together to tell a story that's enjoyable for someone who might not be well versed in the factual knowledge of the white chapel murders.
I find this book to be criminally overlooked; whether its relevance to the god awful adaptation by the Hughes Bros.
Here is what I consider to be Alan Moore's personal best work.
When I finished "From Hell" I had a profound, inescapable feeling that I just learned something very important about mankind and human nature on such a level that it was difficult to quantify.
The work is at once clinical, unsympathetic and uncomfortable, yet these reactions are so intense that one can only approve of Moores effective allegories.
One could teach a short course on "Moore's" thoroughly researched gift to contemporary literature, but I'm content just highly recommending it to adventurous readers.
The feel of the story, supplemented by the grim but very appropriate black and white artwork, is one of the miserable, grimy, almost inhuman conditions of the poor Whitechapel slums and the posh, shining and obviously wealthy sections of London where the gentlemen and aristocrats lived.Moore puts forth the idea that Prince Albert, heir to the Throne, was having an illicit affair with a Whitechapel based prostitute.
Mr. Moore's look at Victorian London shows all the myriad forces at work in creating the Jack mythos.
Certainly the most graphic sequence of the book goes to Chapter Ten which depicts the final murder as the many panels go into great detail into how Gull dissected the victim, whilst at the time having visions of 20th Century architecture and technology.No doubt that this is a thick book and certainly requires a level of attention to examine every tiny detail, but it is benefit to Alan Moore who is always pushing the comics medium and with his exploration into what made the Ripper ticked, From Hell is a must-read as long as you can stomach it.
Finally a Moore I enjoyed. One of the most dense graphic novels I've ever read.
Durante mucho tiempo he estado retrasando la lectura de este cómic, casi todo lo que escribe Moore es muy denso y From Hell tiene fama de ser el cómic más denso que ha escrito hasta la fecha, además el tema que trata nunca me ha llamado demasiado la atención y el dibujo de Eddie Campbell digamos que no es que atraiga a primera vista precisamente y luego está el tema de los apéndices, estoy harto de oir que son de lectura obligatoria, y a mi eso de interrumpir la lectura de un cómic para irme al final del tomo a leer las anotaciones del autor cada dos páginas no me gusta un pelo...

Ambitious, insightful, affecting, intricately mysterious, unnerving and unflinching in its brutality. This is the Jack The Ripper tale to end all Jack The Ripper tales. I didn't read the appendix/Commentary though. I feel that a clock looses a bit of its lustre if you open its face and see the mechanisms and cogs at work.
DNF - I had to stop torturing myself. The art work was white/black OK I don't have the problem with that, but when in some frames you can not even recognize characters or read text properly. It makes you confused an uninterested in the story.
The actual plot is gripping - especially from the middle to the end - but the story is also used as a jumping off point to discuss architecture, the nature of time, class, Masonry, and the transition from the Victorian to the modern era.
There's an interconnectedness to time in From Hell that I thought was really interesting, which takes full advantage of the graphic novel format.
Conversations and actions from the past and the future maintain an actual presence, influencing characters in the present.
Past events ripple into the future and vice versa.
I was surprised that I didn't like it.
I didn't like the art or even the lettering.
Surprising how great a difference that made.
Tiny panels, cramped print, murky and smeary black and white art: it just felt like a monotonous palette, at once over-detailed and sloppy.
I could see using a limited palette, perhaps with accents of red, but the art itself or the reproduction needed to be crisper.
I also thought there wasn't enough of a narrative to keep me engaged and sympathetic; various characters appeared and were butchered, but it felt more like death porn than a real story.
Teď se možná chytáte za hlavu, že jsem vám tu vyžvanil spoiler, ale není to tak.
Totiž: pointa knihy není v tom, kdo vraždí bezbranné prostitutky, to se ostatně dozvíte hned na začátku.
Ale po čase jsem si uvědomil, jak mě právě tento styl přenesl do uliček pekelného Londýna.
Je to ale jen malá vada na kráse, ta je totiž jinak nesmírná a z grafického románu Z pekla jsem nadšený jako naposledy z Mause (a to už bude jedenáct let).
Přestože v románu Z pekla sledujeme jen jednu teorii o tom, kdo vlastně Jack Rozparovač je, nakonec to není tak důležité.
The story, which is largely fictional though based on fact, is about the cover-up conspiracy to keep the true reason behind the Ripper murders from becoming public.
I realized, towards the end, that all of this probably didn't but easily COULD have happened, and that there were likely similar atrocities in our collective history that have not been as well-publicized as Jack the Ripper's reign of terror that were more effectively covered up.The point isn't that conspiracy theories are TRUE, it's just that they are POSSIBLE, and are therefore probably inevitable.
Jules Winfield and Vincent Vega, from Pulp Fiction Tarantino's Magnum Opus, are depicted as foul mouthed, homicidal, violent, drug using characters not because Tarantino simply wants to shock us and laugh all the way to the bank because he's offended our deep seated senses of morality.
Because all of our experiences are intrinsically and immutably coloured by our essential humanity, these characters and narratives resonate at a particularly deep level.Instead, we are greeted with the likes of Jules Winfield- a gangster who's lived a life of excess, violence, murder, and hyper-masculinity but, who also, like all of us at some point in time, have sat down to ponder those deep questions that vex us.
But the book gave me a headache.It's well written but also pedantic, slow moving and, at every pass, hard to read without wanting aspirin or wanting a drink.There were passages of focused intent - I remember most specifically the carraige tour of London and the accompanying discussion of the significance of monument and the ahistorical campaign to subjugate the maternal in art and architecture, but there was nothing about its presentation that particularly favored the graphic novel format and I found myself returning to the text over the panel so heavily that it might've been simpler and happier to have encountered that portion in a book.Great historical subject matter, good writing, long digressions, bad headaches.The most sincere non-endorsement I can give would go something like this:This is the book that made me realize I might need glasses, because it made me squint all of the time.
I wish I could give 2 1/2 stars for this because while I appreciate this graphic novel as an artistic endeavor, I really did not like it.
I just would have preferred this in novel form.I spent most of my reading time confused by the illustrations, which unfortunately catapulted me out of the story almost constantly.
I understand that Eddie Campbell's art is meant to represent the dark grittiness of Whitechapel in Victorian London.
My largest confusion came from my inability to tell the difference between the female characters.
Without spoiling the plot, I can only say that this distinction becomes important.Maybe this character confusion was part of the artistic intent.
I am so not surprised that this moron wrote the book WATCHMEN was based on.
After the opening credits of Bob Dylan singing "The Times They Are A Changing" while random super heroes get busted, I knew I was in for something truly awful.
But it tells you EVERYTHING about every lunatic conspiracy theory that ever evolved surrounding these killings, ninety percent of which would have been fall-down laughing funny (Druid cults in modern London?
Loch Ness monster seeking victims on land?) all really fall-down laughing funny if it weren't for the REAL violence done to women which absolutely NONE of these characters seems to care about.
Those two titles are often suggested as an entry-point to comics as literature.
The problem is that both works are incredibly metatextual, self-referential, and post-modern takes on the superhero mythos.
To truly appreciate either work, the reader must be familiar with the tropes and history of the superhero genre.This book is a much better introduction to comics as literature for a newcomer to the medium.
Moore's writing is intricately layered, matched admirably by Campbell's thatch-work-style art.
Instead of trying to tease out suspense, Moore uses the killings as a window into class, media, and magic in nineteenth-century London.
The book is also meticulously researched, as evidenced by the dense appendices.
