https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35339.A_Princess_Remembers
I selected this book because its written by my grandmother .She is the daughter of the Maharaja of Cooch-Behar, and the widow of the Maharaja of Jaipur.
Raised in sprawling palaces.
She shot her first panther when she was twelve.
Later in her life, she won a seat in the Indian Parliament with the most staggering majority that anyone has ever earned in an election.
The book gives the image of a princess’s majestic life .It describes the time of independence in 1947, when the princes lost their power.
In short it’s a wonderful book that everyone should read.
The book is light on World War II and after that Gayatri Devi’s description of her life, particularly in politics, has little depth.Although her grandfather ruled a small kingdom near what is now Bangladesh, her mother’s active social life brought Gayatri into the orbit of Jai the Maharaja of Jaipur a very large kingdom quite a distance away.
Their status seems diminished (the kids at school hear that it is) but they are still leading a life of hunting expeditions, polo matches and formal parties.Gayatri says she ran for office because the Congress Party was corrupt and not getting things done.
The people and rulers I had "heard" about from our guide in Jaipur were introduced by Gayatri as if they were alive and well, for she was the third wife of the adopted Raja, the last raja before the merger of Indian states fell under the new democratic country of India.
Although the majority of the prince's wealth was taken away by the new government of India, Gayatri continues to live in Jaipur in Lilypool, in a much less extravagant style, but still in much more style than most people.
Gayatri Devi describes the pomp and circumstance of a past life in India.
Once, a long, long, time ago, there lived a pretty young woman. She married a prince and thus, became a princess.It was in a small and pink city of only three million people.The walled hamlet was located in India.She soon was known, throughout the world, as the most beautiful woman alive.And she also worked in the government before she retired to the UK.And she lived happily thereafter.The end.(a true and touching memoir)
This year she gifted it to me on my birthday with the advice that India is complex and fascinating and I would do well to learn more about the country and visit it someday if possible.I didn't know exactly where Jaipur was on the subcontinent but I understood who a maharani would be, and when I flipped through the musty old pages I found intriguing illustrations of tiger hunts, elephant processions, and gargantuan palaces.
She tells the story of her family life as one of the Indian elite royals who lived through the 20th century transition of India from part of the British Empire to a new democracy working out its future path.
This is a slow read.. I generally have a fascination of palaces and grandeur described with minute detailing. This is what Maharani does.. I traveled Cooch Behar, Jaipur and Europe with the book. It remains dreamy in three fourth of the book, which I absolutely dig for and takes a political turn in the last part with the Maharani getting involved in post Independence politics.An absolutely dreamy read.. and all I could say after putting it down is wish I was a Princess :) :)
Beautifully written... Exactly how a princess lived her life and the opportunities and excess that it allows. Also the description of the indian landscape from pre to post independence is good and heart breaking. The views are from a privileged stand point and she accepts that her views are biased. But a true indian princess story.. thoroughly enjoyed it.
What I liked the most was that it gives a fairly good description of the glory of royal India--the days when most of India was under British Raj and/simultaneously that of the Indian kings and princes.
There was no democracy and yet absolute peace, prosperity and a rapport of trust and love between the ruler and the ruled.
Those rulers then were way sophisticated, mannerly and civilized compared to the crass and brash politicians of today.
Interestingly, Maharani Gayatri Devi, as an individual wasn't impressive to me at all, in contrast with what I had expected, but if that's what it takes for her to be honest, salud!
What a remarkable lady...
I remember watching her interviews as a child and being in awe of her even though she was of a considerable age by then..
grace, poise, sophisticated, enigmatic, charming, knowledgeable- I doubt words would do her justice...
and all that I got from watching her on screen, so I had to read her book...
and although she came from a privileged family, she seems so ordinary and humble....
never lost the zest for life, despite having gone through tumultuous times- as an aristocrat or in her personal life...
wish we had more of such books on indian influential women of the eras bygone!!
This is a very interesting account of a Princess who was born in British India in an area which now borders Bangladesh. She laters marries the Maharaja of Jaipur.This books reveals the complexities of Indian culture and the changes that had to occur when India became. I highly reccomend this book to anyone fascinated by India.
Enter your review (optional)
enjoyed reading this book..and also beautiful pictures..
To begin, reviewing this book is quite emotional as a sensitive reader and a native from Rajasthan.
The book cover simply says it is a memoirs of the Maharani of Jaipur.
But, honestly it offers much more than simply a recount of this charismatic women's life journey in the royals of India.
Maharani's childhood days give the readers a detailed glance into the travels, parties , restrictions, traditions, hunts and a number of incidences of the life of royal families in 1920's.
The tragic death of His Highness is what marks the end of this women's energy and the desire to move on with life.
When i first started reading this book, I thought it was good read however gradually the long chapters and the extra information that the Maharani provided was quite irrelevant.
At one point I dropped the book because I could no longer read the way too long chapters and remember the information such a location, historic names and the never-ending events that she wrote.
When i reached the mid of the book, I felt that it was enough of it and just read the important highlights of the book and researched about the Maharani's life.
Hence I conclude that I have read the book and I have more than enough information about her life.
Autobiography/Memoir is my favorite genre and I enjoyed reading this book.
Gayatri Devi takes us through her journey of princely states, life and grandeur.
The narration of her story and life deserves 5 stars but I gave it 3 stars coz her royal family including herself was heavily into hunting; the book actually mentions 1000s of innocent animals being shot and speared for pleasure and entertainment.
Leaving that aside this is an engaging memoir and it took me back to Jaipur, Gayatri Devi takes us through her journey of peak richness to the downfall of Maharjas post independence.
I could write a lot about how wonderful a life Gayatri Devi lead, or how boring the autobiography became sometimes.But this book is much beyond the petty scales of a normal autobiography.
It's about one of the remarkable figures of pre and post independence India.
She still remains hidden from the limit our general knowledge, which is a shame for all of us.We should have followed the ideals of these people after 1947 rather than a confused and selfish family.As a book, it's not upto the mark.
As expected from the people of India at the time, who still researched and followed the Victorian Era.
I cannot begin to describe how beautifully this autobiography is written by Gayatri Devi herself. She remembered each and every memory from her childhood like it was yesterday. Her description of India before and after the colonial times is exquisite. Although she was a princess herself, her life was no fairy-tale. The loss she suffered throughout her life were very saddening but she took even that in her stride and went on living her life.
A true picture of an Indian princess, queen and an altruist. It's refreshing to have insights into an Indian Queen's life.
oooh i loved this
At one point it lagged a bit, but I pushed through and as I finished it I realized I had just learned more about the history of India through this book that I ever learned in school.
Looking forward, I would love to see high school curriculums that included the history of major global players such as India and Brazil.
Yes, the Maharani is glamorous and lived a very "fabulous" sort of life, but I also thought her vivid retelling of living through the various governmental transitions in India was the most fascinating thing about this book.
I'm now inspired to read more about India.
Super!
Beautifully written, detailed descriptions of how royals lived their lives pre-independence. Gives a stark contrast to their lives now after Independent India forced them to give up their titles.
The book is a journey of Maharani Gayatri Devi's life since she was child, to her courtship with Maharaja of Jaipur and their marriage, her life post marriage, political events in India leading to big changes in the lives of prevailing Kings and the last years of the queen.
It was interesting to see the queen's dynamics with the other wives of the Maharaja, adjustment to the new city (which was very different from where she came from), the purdah system and the journey towards becoming the Queen of Jaipur.Maharani Gayatri Devi's respect, support, love for her husband clearly stands out in all parts of the book.
This is my very first auto biography book which I read. I enjoyed reading the Royal life of Indian Prince/Princess, Pre Independence life, living,politics and completeness of the Royal Kings. Splendid read .
The story of her life in her words is a work of immense detailing (which any reader fascinated by royalty & history would love to go through), Beginning from her childhood in the Palace of Cooch Behar and all the details about their stays at Palaces and summer houses all over the world.
She went on to play an active role in politics, doing as much as she could.Though her way of writing is good in the sense that it is simple and detailed, the only thing I did not quite like about her memoirs is the way in which she described the death of her family members.
After her marriage with the Maharaja of Jaipur, she is confronted with purdah and life as a woman in the zenana quarters where she can only take part in ceremonies by watching them through windows of latticed stone.
At the end of her life she lives in the Lilypool, a nice house in Jaipur.This book is an extra when you have visited this part of India, gives you insight in the lives of Maharajas and Maharanis, of the change of the country after independence, but it does not go far enough.
She studied at Glendower at Glendower Preparatory School, London, Vishwabharati Vishwavidyalaya, Shantiniketan and at Lausanne, Switzerland.
Later she studied at London School of Secretaries, Brillantmont and Monkey Club London.
First important event described is independence of India, after which her State merged with Rajputana.
She contests for the post of Member of Parliament.
After election, she has described that all her sisters and other Kings and families attended Parliament as visitors.
Fourth, In 1971, Swatantra Party joined hands with Jan Sangh Party and contested for post of Member of Legislative Assembly of Rajasthan.
She lost but she won election to the post of Member of Parliament.
Having spent time in Jaipur myself, and now having in-laws there, this account makes me even more interested in Jaipur's history over the last century.India, like every country with a long history, cannot be understood from one account or perspective, and these memoirs provide a viewpoint that seems to be lacking in other accounts I have read of the relationship between the princely states and British India, and later, the New Delhi government of independent India.
Devi focused her life to pleasing her husband and caring for her son.But over the years there were big political changes as India became an independent country and the princely states were dissolved.
And her funds and status were so diminished that no longer lived in a big palace with hundreds of servants and aides.It took me a long time to finish this book, but I thought Devi's story was interesting.
From her perspective, her family took good care of the people who worked for them and lived around them.
Her husband was a International Playboy and there's barely a mention of that in the book.
She was stating that she hoped that Jai would give up other women after they were married but her brother didn't think that he would.
Later on her husband is seriously hurt in a plane crash, she goes to the hospital with him but then leaves him and flies to Deli and mentions that she prayed for him there in the temple in their home.
This kind of got me wondering at how good their relationship was later on and whether he had other women with him.
