https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79006.Honor_Among_Thieves
I do not accept it, CIA and MOSSAD never will give an agent a field job who are so emotionally weak.Is Saddam was an idiot, How can they cross the border like that when the army is behind them, Is declaration of Independence is an only important object in America.
Like, every second action movie of Hollywood wants to steal it, lots of books want it to burn, every enemy of America just need Declaration to get the America on its knees.Saddam Kill his countrymen but let traitors enter into his castle and offices.
My first full-length Jeffrey Archer novel (other one was  Quiver Full of Arrows , his short-story collection) and I am mightily impressed, I must say.This book falls in "my-type" category.
All that crime, conspiracy and stuff falls in my most favorite genre and  Honor Among Thieves  was a treat to read.Jam-packed with action from the first page itself, it had an immensely engaging plot which made it hard for me to put the book down.
Now I am sure that I'll never have to blink twice to buy a Jeffrey Archer book when I see it.
I am officially, a part of the fan-club.
Couldn’t get into this book at present. I’ve put it aside until a later date. Picked up Ann Cleeves’ The Seagull instead. It is atmospheric right from the first page. That’s what I need at present. Must add it to the ‘My Books’ shelf now.Best,JJ
In order get back at the USA for the Gulf War, Saddam Hussein steals the original copy of the Declaration of Independence: THE ORIGINAL DOCUMENT, fellow Americans?
Gnash thy teeth and tear out thine hairs from the very roots for thou hast been bested!!In the wake of the decade long WAr of Iraq, I guess there is a sweet sentimetality in viewing the cartoon villain of Saddam Husein during the Clinton era.
Remember when we were the good guys, the winners of the Cold War, the benevolent empire...?(sigh)Archer's understanding of the nature of American nationalism is about as nuanced and accurate as Roland Emmerich's.
The plot of this book is ridiculous.
I didn't like it,Archer's worst book for me.A lame plot with something to do with Saddam Hussein.
Learnt more about the American Declaration of Independence rather than I would have from any book on history, among other things. A good thriller from start to the end, although I saw some twists coming a few pages before, with the exception of the "explosive" one at the end. Archer never disappoints.
I had some difficulty getting into this one. Maybe it was the number of characters and difficult Arabic names I had to remember. Or maybe it was because I was busy writing and let it sit too long between readings.Either way, the plot had all the essential elements I like in a book, with a number of predictable twists. I'm torn between three and four stars.It was the first Jeffrey Archer novel I've read, and I did like the book, so I gave it four.
I love when I pick up a book that doesn't let me put it down. Though I did have to get a good night's sleep somewhere in the middle - apparently I'm not as young as I used to be. Great organized crime plot, mildly predictable, but satisfyingly gripping writing anyway. A great palate-cleanser from the heavier reading I've been doing.
Κλασική γραφή Αρτσερ. Μεταξύ μας τώρα δεν θυμάμαι την υπόθεση! Να το ξαναδιαβάσω βέβαια, αλλά πότε; Γιατί Θεέ μας έδωσες 24 μόνο ώρες την ημέρα;
Set two years after the Gulf War and in the early days of the Clinton administration Saddam Hussein has unleashed a cunning plan to humiliate the United States.One part cunning heist story, one part cunning recovery mission Archer tries to weave a tightly wound plot with all the twists and turns of his previous works.
This is definitely a book to read over a rainy weekend when you had originally planned to do something outdoors - not as much fun but still better than sitting around doing nothing."Honour Among Thieves" gets 3 cunning plans out of five.
Dragged a bit in the middle and very much reminded me of Argo.
International intrigue, lots of action in post-Gulf War Iraq...This was our first exposure to Jeff Archer, who's skill with complex international plot development reminds one a little of Tom Clancy without the high tech stuff.
Thereafter, most of the action is in Iraq, and before it's over Bradley teams up with an Israeli female spook (and falls in love while he's at it!), as well as some other American diehards from the CIA, who build a complex plan to steal back the precious parchment and avoid Hussein's planned humiliation of a Fourth of July burning on national TV.
If I were to pick out one interesting observation that I have made of Jeffrey Archer over the years, it would be his undoubtably good sense in crafting entertainers.
He goes in for racy and swashbuckling thrill rides which begin and end with a lot of pomp & splendor.If memory serves me right, Archer was one of the first authors whom I read after graduating from Hardy Boys when I was a child.
Yes, the good guys win over the evil guys.
Yes, the good guys are too good to be true & the evil guys undoubtedly stink.
Good old Archer at his best !
Firstly I must admit to being a real fan of Jeffrey Archer's writing, if not his politics or morals.
And others has stated it had the feel of either a Robert Ludlum or Tom Clancey novel without all the high-tech wizardry, a real plus in my book.The plot idea was quite original and well thought out.There were some real goodies and baddies for you to cheer or boo depending on your outlook.
The fact that there was little high-tech gadgetry and therefore the story relied more on good penmanship were all bonuses.
Maybe because I am wary of anything that puts Mossad operative in a good light.
Especially one who is hell bent on a revenge path.
But even if the operative is of another nationality I would hate it.
Of course she would be a supermodel.
Of course she would be oh so clever in so many things, but oh so gullible when it comes to the heart.
It may was not meant that way, but I found the woman character portrayal here is insulting.
I hate Scott rosy outlook even when he is a spies.
It is just such a white thing to do!
Jeffrey Archer may be a "name" author, but being a "name" does not mean your works are touched with brilliance every time.Archer's plot for this novel is nothing short of wildly contrived.
Saddam Hussein wants revenge for the Gulf War, but, instead of staging a terrorist attack against an American target, he hires some American thugs to steal...
The Declaration of Independence?
Yep.Why does Saddam want to pull off the Mother of All Robberies?
"National Treasure" is a more creative "heist" story involving the Declaration of Independence than "Honor Among Thieves" is.
I loved this book. I love American history and taught my 5th graders all about the Declaration of Independence, to honor it and respect it. I have been to Washington, DC, and seen how it is stored with its decending into its vault. I can't imagine how it could really be stolen, but found it this story fascinating and patriotic. Jeffrey Archer is a wonderful storyteller. I would like to read more of his books.
Read it a long time ago during my initial years as a reader. It was very very good. Among Archer's better ones. But now I think certain things that happen in the novel are implausible. A good thriller nevertheless.
I couldn't put it down!! This book got me back into reading. Thanks to my friend Vanessa for lending it to me. It sat on my shelf for probably 4 years, and I finally picked it up and read it. Awesome story!
My first book by Archer. The book reminded me of a Ludlum novel, as it traced a plot by Saddam Hussein to steal and destroy the Declaration of Independence. Well written and easy to get carried away for hours at a time. I will be reading more from this author in the future.
Honour among thieves, to start with the title really got to me.Im glad i wasnt let down, now i have always been an ardent Jeffrey Archer fan and thats due to novels like these.
It is a fantastic book. Its full of surprises. You just cant stop turning pages.
Wasn't my favorite Jeff Archer, but I liked how the author twisted the plot and made it turn out the way it did. I still am not sure if the true original was replaced to it's rightful place!
Scott Bradley, Hannah Kopec (Miss Saib), Antonio Cavalli, Hamid Al Obaydi, Dollar Bill, General Hamil, Cohen, Colonel Kratz, Aziz Zeebari , Bill Clinton (US President..WoW), and Saddam Hussain (Iraq President ..wow)LOCATION (s)..
THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE ((The unanimous declaration made on July 4th 1776, executed by Timothy Matlack)) ..a prestigious American document is smuggled from the National Archives of America to Saddam's Iraq by a mafia boss for millions of dollars as the bait .
The CIA and Mossad join forces to steal the Declaration back before this can happen and anyone knows it's missing.The plot is ridiculous and so is most of the book.
It's a fun sort of book that you just turn your brain off and enjoy like people who watch the Fast and the Furious movies or National Treasure.
(Q: why have your characters execute a thrilling escape if you don't put it on the page?)Archer gets dinged for style points, though.
The book is tilted a lot toward summary and away from scene with tons of passive voice everywhere.
But this book, 'Honour Among Thieves', was different.
Unfair, yes, but that's what I felt.'Honour Among Thieves' started off palely, just not the Archer I know.
I had to turn back a couple of pages to see if I had missed something or to double-check which of the characters he was actually talking about.However, the story redeems itself about halfway in and builds up pretty well for one that seemed doomed in the beginning.
All I could think was, "Oh thank goodness, Archer is in there!"All in all, I quite liked the book, though not as much as I'd have liked to like.
In Honor Among Thieves by Jeffrey Archer, the book starts out with two of the antagonists, Antonio Cavalli and Hamid Al Obaydi, having a meeting.
The book then goes on to introduce Scott Bradley, he is one of the main characters in the book.
She is sent out on a mission where she meets Scott Bradley.
Scott and Hannah then must go on a daring mission to steal back this piece of American history and return it to its rightful owner.I liked this book for many reasons.
I have very mixed feelings about this book.
It was interesting to see the action quickly ramp up in the last 100 pages or so, but then in the last 20 when you think the plot would be over, there's this small conflict that goes on for a while and is quickly resolved with few problems.
After the initial climax, this smaller one seemed even flatter and in a way hurt the plot, even if it was a nice twist.
So overall, this book had good parts and not so good parts, but was an altogether enjoyable read.
For the first time in a long time I managed to finish a book in three days; well, a book of this size any way.
It was really easy to keep reading.
Each chapter providing something to look forward in the next.
Some did feel hard to move through but they were extremely rare.There were some aspects I did not like.
But that was due to personal prejudice.
But they made it hard to give the book five stars, and a few other things that ruined the thrill because everything seemed to have a neat bow at the end that made the outcome almost hard to miss.
Especially the nice little twists that catch you.
