https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/462775.The_Dor_Bible_Illustrations
Doré's depictions are hardly embellished, if you read the source, but perhaps it's his excess of imagination which frightened critics.
All plates include Doré's signature in the bottom left corner, the engraver's bottom right.
To focus on just one, as an explanation of what makes Doré's depictions great: Plate 7 "The Deluge".
At the very top of the rock stands a tiger with two cubs at her feet, and she has one in her mouth.
most awesomest book of all time.
These engravings were made for a deluxe edition of the Bible. They are excellent examples of Victorian religious art: They are reverent, well executed, and detailed, but never sentimental or idealized. Dore presents people and events of ancient times as he imagines they actually were; this is actually an exhortation to faith--these things are true, he says.
Some of the finest artwork ever produced that can be appreciated by all faiths for its beauty and drama
Beautiful, almost effortlessly so.
Beautiful. Nothing even comes close.
This is just an incredible illustration book, I find the "fantasy" pieces more interesting than the others but overall this is just high class. The quality of the printing is also good, more on the grayscale but that's ok considering the kind of paper.And this is just an assumption but I think this Dore's work in particular was a strong influence for the Jehovah's witness's (religious believes apart) books and magazines artworks from the 80's and 90's.
Gustave Dore's illustrations of the English Bible (1866). Two hundred and forty-one black & white illustrations from woodcuts, depicting many Biblical scenes and events, quite a few of which are graphic and gruesome. Below each illustration is the Bible verse or verses that the illustration represents. Excellent.
I bought this to make copies (post copyright material) and put affordable (i.e., cheap) prints on my wall with biblical themes. These are interesting illustrations with lots of action in every print-- sometimes a bit too much stimulation (violence), but some are compelling.
hoorrayyy thank you free book shelf.
Some great pieces, many, while well executed, nothing special. But that is the fault of the source material. The Bible does not, in any way, deserve this much (or any) attention.
your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams -Acts 2:17
