https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14990.Spook
Roach is the author of Stiff, a raucous romp through the wonderful land of death.
She examines a host of topics under her conceptual umbrella, looking at reincarnation, the hunt for the seat of the soul, the notion that the soul weighs 21 grams, ectoplasm, the effectiveness of mediums, including her stint in medium school, (she outgrew small but was not yet advanced enough for large school?) EVP, and more.
Spook has enough payload to justify the trip and the humor makes it a very spirited ride.Other Mary Roach works -----Stiff-----Packing for Mars-----Gulp-----Grunt
I learned a number of interesting things reading Mary Roach's survey of the historical and scientific efforts to prove the existence of a soul.
Despite the interesting nature of the topic, however, I didn't love this book as much as I hoped.
There were moments in which the narrative got bogged down as the author detailed a few too many historical efforts to prove the existence of the soul.
A few moments of genuine humor combined with her generally readable style, however, made me want to seek out her first book, which I've heard is much better.
She spends most of her time making fun of mediums from the spiritualism craze in the 20's (which, let's face it, is like shooting fish in a barrel).But you can also sense the places where her unspoken thesis (i.e. that the idea of a soul, and any attendant special effects, is bunk) runs into problems.She hurriedly scurries past it (as in the case of Kirlian photography, or a scientific experiment which seemed to validate the presence of an astrally projected body form).
First, I'll make a joke about all the nerds doing research in the room, and what mind-numbingly boring topics they're studying!
This is a book that claims to speak for science...but true scientific research is never this shallow.
No surprise here: First, Roach "investigates" the ghost-sighting claim, then feels the (surely noble) need to tell the farmer's grandchildren that their ancestor was likely involved in some sort of scam (even though they previously had held no doubts about their grandfather's story, and didn't seem to want to hear any of her arguments).
With Spook, Mary Roach isn’t going to provide you with a concrete answer but rather an exploration of several beliefs and possibilities.I didn’t enjoy this one nearly as much as Stiff.
I’m not the biggest fan of that “profession” and while she goes on record in detailing her personal skepticism, I found that she provided a fair and balanced approach regarding the students and professors.I’d be interested to hear thoughts from someone who carries a firm belief in the afterlife and what, if anything, this book did for them.
If I could, I’m sure I would have enjoyed it a lot more.
The second strength is that she's humble and friendly; her prose is downright gregarious, so that reading often comes off as chatting with a well-versed (but not know-it-all) friend.
It's wonderful to read someone who can be funny about this sensitive matter without ever coming across as hating one of the embattled sides.
You're reading the observations of a friend, from whom you have much to learn and much to laugh about.In short - this is a book titled "Spook" and only subtitled "Science Tackles the Afterlife," and the photo of the author on the dustjacket shows her laughing hysterically.
A trip through various scientific and not-so-scientific attempts to ascertain whether or not the human soul, consciousness, personality, or whatever survives the death of the body.
Looks at reincarnation, mediums, ectoplasms, attempts to measure or weigh the soul, anatomical searches for the seat of the soul within the body, electromagnetic haunting, quantum physics theories of consciousness, ghost-hunting, electronic voice phenomena and near-death experiences.
It's almost boring.How can anything be boring when it includes people killing themselves out of curiousity about the afterlife, mediums hiding cheesecloth and animal parts in their vaginas, electromagnetic impulses being sent into the right lobe of the brain to simulate the experience of being "haunted," and a man mowing his lawn in a three-piece suit?
cover this topic in much more detail and probably are better in many ways.
makes it clear that he expected Spiritualism to have come into its own long before this.If I must make a snide remark it is to wonder why people who believe in the afterlife don't seem to be appropriately concerned about senility.
I’m sure most people who believe in an afterlife assume dying somehow restores their faculties back to mid-season form (as Wodehouse might have put it).
And, as she points out, choosing to believe that the more mystical answer might be right might just be more fun!”Has my year among the evidence-gatherers left me believing in anything I didn't believe in a year ago?
I had asked him whether he believes that near-death experiences provide evidence of a life after death.
were newly discovered and poorly understood I can imagine how things might have looked different, and open-minded people might more plausibly have imagined disembodied personalities zipping about in the ether.So, lots of fun, and recommended for those with an interest in the subject.

The last two or three chapters came the closest to what I'd actually expected this book to be-- chapters where she's researching subjects she felt were credible-- but the rest of the book was...
(Her ambiguous "can't really prove or disprove" statements in some chapter conclusions didn't really smack of conviction-- for the most part, it was pretty clear she'd made up her mind on the subject.)Some of her asides were entertaining (I have GOT to try the thing with the cows), though a larger number of them were extremely juvenile (mocking Kimberly Clark's name, for example, because it was the same as that of a feminine product manufacturer).If I want more lighthearted edge-of-normal human interest works, I think I'll stick with A.
Rating: 3.5* of fiveThe Book Report: Hot off the success of Stiff, Roach launched herself at an equally surprising topic: Does the soul exist?
Can the soul's survival of individual death account for the mysteries of reincarnation and hauntings?In a word, No. Roach travels the globe looking for the kind of evidence that scientists look for when postulating the existence of muons and Higgs bosons, sans the billion-plus dollar measuring equipment and teams of serious guys in funny coats and booties.
Unsurprisingly, she fails to find it.My Review: All the stars in this book's favor are for Roach's hilarious writing and funny anecdotal collections.
The rest of the book deals with her experiences with scientists and groups that study the subject of what happens when one dies and takes a very smug attitude, interspersed with "humor" which is totally inappropriate.
It really doesn't matter whether one believes in an afterlife or not, an unbiased study of the subject was what I was looking for in this book.
and rather flippant attitude of the author who obviously thinks that the study of the existence or non-existence of an afterlife is an unworthy topic for serious consideration.
I enjoyed "Stiff", also by Mary Roach, so perhaps my expectations were too high for this book.
Perhaps "Stiff" was more interesting because it was full of facts that surprised me, things that made sense, but that I didn't know about.
Fascinating.In "Spook", there were a few interesting studies, especially concerning near death experiences, but I didn't find any surprises in Roach's conclusions, unless you count her weak last few sentences, "The debunkers are probably right, but they're no fun to visit a graveyard with.
The book wasn't fascinating and if I wasn't reading it with someone else, I probably wouldn't have finished it.
I have this book on my Kindle.
Not a good idea.
Spook is not a novel.
It is a thoroughly-researched publication about the search for the soul by scientists and everyone else looking for it in different ways.This is the kind of book that should be on a coffee table, or in the throne room of the house.
It is for interest's sake.
It can be entertaining, or it can be serious, depending on your approach to the subject.
It can be many things to many people.
It is just not a book that should be read in one sitting, like a novel.Well-written.
"Spook" reads like a terrible first draft.
These attempts reminded me of when I'm forced to hang out with someone I don't know well (like at a conference) and the other person tries to be funny by pointing out what he thinks are negative things in the our immediate environment...
What the fuck?"Anyway, as I mentioned, I liked Roach's previous books.
This wasn't as interesting as I'd hoped. The subject is very hard for science to pin down - and while she doesn't come right out and say there's no afterlife, she also doesn't find any proof. I wanted more stories and anecdotes, which doesn't match the whole "science" thing. I enjoyed Grunt much more. I've a couple of her other books on my shelf so I'm sure to read more. Stiff looks particularly interesting ;)
Un bel saggio. Sotto tanti punti divertente. La Roach riesce ad affrontare tanti temi, tanti episodi e la crescita dell’indagine verso quella che è l’esperienza con chi di noi non c’è più con informazioni, nomi, esperienze, casi piccoli e grandi, e la giusta dose di umorismo (che in alcuni casi è insita nelle stesse parole riportate dai protagonisti). È un saggio che deve, ovviamente, avere l’interesse già preesistente di chi sta leggendo. Ma credo sia comunque una lettura interessante per tutti, sia per chi ci crede che per chi è scettico.
Each one deals with a different subject: reincarnation, the search for the soul by anatomists, the “weight” of a soul, ectoplasm, scientifically monitored mediums, a trip to medium school, telecommunication with the dead, the effect of electromagnetic fields on the human mind, psychoacoustics, a court case involving a ghost, and near-death experiences.
However, chapter three, which deals with the commonly known idea of a human being losing twenty-one grams of weight at the moment of death, has been a subject I’ve been wanting to hear more about for a long time.
I picked up Spook first because it's subject matter interested me and then I knew I had to buy it when I saw that the author was none other than Mary Roach who had written another interesting and intriguing book dealing with the physical body at death.
The fact that even the author was a little confused at times makes you feel a lot better for not getting it.I don't feel the book really opened any new beliefs for me, or pointed out anything I hadn't thought of before.
I think this is the fourth I've read, and I'm starting to get the same feel from many of them, and it is this: she finds interesting stories, but she doesn't do enough with them, just plops them down in front of the reader like her job is done with the anecdote, and without delving more deeply into the issues that really interest me.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
A lot of wordy waffling from the author, with some interesting historical strange-but-true stories from the halls of crank science (just enough so I didn't DNF from boredom). Roach's inability to let a peanut gallery opportunity go by made the tone wearying after awhile, and some sections were long-winded and deathly dull. Maybe it was the subject matter or the way she presented it, but at any rate, it was just ok in the end. 2.5 stars.
I loved Mary Roach's Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers (how can I not adore an author who has me laughing heartily as I read about what happens to dead human bodies?!) (a 5 star book for me) and I’d like to read her book Packing for Mars: The Curious Science of Life in the Void and maybe Bonk: The Curious Coupling of Science and Sex too, but I wasn’t that enthusiastic about reading this book.
I laughed and smiled more during the first half than the second half of the book, but I’m not convinced it got any less funny; I’m more inclined to think the humor wore thin for me, and I’d had enough of the subject.
This is a funny and fascinating book on the soul.
Does it exist?
Is it physical?
Can it be seen or measured?
Are NDEs (Near Death Experiences) real?
Do animals have souls?
Mary Roach fearlessly dives in head first.
This book comes down on the side of 'no'.
No proof of a soul, no proof of a next life, no proof of ghosts.
Even though in the end, she says “I believe in ghosts”, that is just because she WANTS to believe that there is something more out there.
The book will turn people into skeptics.
Mary Roach has a great sense of humor.
She looks into the research (mostly pseudoscientific, or bordering on it) on reincarnation, the soul, ghosts, mediums, and near death experiences (NDEs).
295) she shares her hope: “Perhaps I should believe in a hereafter .
Plus, no one has any idea of what such an afterlife would be like.
The Christian version is untenable as there is not any support for it outside the Bible, which does not really describe what it would be like, anyway.
I see no reason why it would be attractive to those that believe, since it offers no evidence for an afterlife.
Joint review with Chantel will be up at some point!I have to say, I didn’t like this one as much as I liked the other ones I’ve read by her.
Last year, we read Bonk together, which was looking at some of the wacky research people have done about sex.
Then, last year, I read Stiff on my own, which is a look into the life of a cadaver.
But, it didn’t seem to make sense or add into an afterlife very well since those movements and the people involved have been largely debunked.So, while I laughed and chuckled and learned some new stuff, this book just didn’t impress me like I had hoped it would.
And in fact, since I don't have much more to say (I enjoyed the book, you might enjoy it too if you like Mary Roach and science, but I recommend much, much more her book Stiff first), I'm going to leave you with my favorite passage from the book, which I typed up just now just so people can have a laugh:Is it possible to dress up like a ghost and fool people into thinking they've seen the real deal?
Mary Roach's Spook tells the story of her research on the afterlife, a mystery that many are more than eager to learn about.
The book is simply a collection of her experiences and possible evidence that may be used to support or reject the idea of an afterlife, which may provide a different perspective to our own.
However, what made this scene so memorable to me was not how Aishwary was able to recognize Veerpal's family, but how, for a split second, I thought that reincarnation was possible.
She does have a tendency to include amusing yet irrelevant anecdotes about the people and places she encounters during her research.Part of the book is concerned with the historical efforts to seek proof of an afterlife.
Like many skeptics, it's not that she doesn't want to believe in the paranormal, it's that she cannot ignore the total absence of hard evidence.As a skeptic myself, I was gratified that she remains unconvinced by the shaky evidence she uncovered yet frustrated that she does not actually dismiss any of the crazy methodology which left her so unsatisfied.
(Except the ectoplasm fad, which is a pretty safe subject to mock.) I think a believer would be gratified and frustrated at opposite points.
The longing was so strong (and still often is so strong) that I truly wish that I could somehow reach out to them one more time.One of my sisters twisted my arm until we visited a local clairvoyant, who I must say provided a very comforting experience.
It was an interesting experience and I don’t regret it, but I also don’t think I will ever repeat it.Perhaps not as much fun as other Mary Roach books that I’ve read, but still an enjoyable way to spend some time.
