https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228761.Egermeier_s_Bible_Story_Book
I loved reading these stories when I was a child. I enjoyed lugging this book around. It has over 700 pages with stories and resources at the end including questions, colorful maps, and old black and white photographs of Palestine. I still have my copy. The cover on the copy I own is different. The edition that I have was published in 1963.
Ok. So you're beyond silly little children's storybook Bibles with cartoonish illustrations and bullet points of story lines and parables. You want a good bit more meat to your scripture and Bible stories, but your kiddo is not quite read to be set loose in a youth Bible of full scripture. The next best step is either  The Golden Children's Bible  or  Egermeier's Bible Story Book . While the Golden Children's Bible is full of classic illustrations much like Egermeier it is very large in size, a
Ok. So you're beyond silly little children's storybook Bibles with cartoonish illustrations and bullet points of story lines and parables.
Egermeier's Bible Story Book
. While the Golden Children's Bible is full of classic illustrations much like Egermeier it is very large in size, a good lap size and Egermeier is more toward a standard size perfect for a young reader reading alone to them-self or aloud.
312 stories from the Old Testament to the New Testament, 122 full-color illustrations to bring the Bible stories to life.
this book without addition makes a pretty good Bible study class alone!
Hall rewrote the stories for the 1955 edition.As a child I thought the stories from the NT were relatively boring compared to those of the Hebrew Bible, which was, in this case, the OT, I guess, as this is a Christian publication.
These are stories deemed suitable for children at that time.The illustrations in my copy are conventionally 1950s pious and, I think, sometimes histrionic, posed.
Here's one I found on Bing, but my edition's corresponding print is in black and white, and the expressions on the people's faces are more readable, compared to this colorized version.
This is a wonderful storybook of the Bible for all ages with illustrations that are bold and colorful. The stories are biblically accurate with verses cited and not dumbed down like many others like it. A must read for families!
I am reading this book with my daughter and so far it is captivating, true to scripture, and easy enough for a preschooler to understand.
Great book for learning the Bible stories. This is a hardcover book and great to have around the house and good for collectors.
This is an early elementary level Children's bible.
The content and some of the chapters are a little bit longer (so are better for older children), but are much closer to actual bible content.
It also adds cultural and historical details.
It took us 18 months to get through it reading about 1 story a day.
Wait a little bit for them to have a longer attention span for them to get the most out of it.Reading this again with my son, still very enjoyable and a great prep bible before going straight into actual bible readings.
This was the only book at my grandparents' place which I could read as a child. I read all of it when I was about seven or eight, and some favourite parts many times over (I especially liked Esther, I think). I'll always be happy for having read it, as the Bible is a cornerstone in our history and culture, and I really believe that most my Bible references I have from reading this book as a child. Probably some have added up during the years, but I'm sure I wouldn't have heard about, say, Esther without it.
We love this book.
It simplifies the bible stories - but not so much that it takes away educating my children in scripture knowledge.
The illustrations are just enough to help create an idea of the stories but not so much that our sons get distracted from a true scriptural education.Post Edit: I just LOVE this children's version of the Bible.
I think every home should have it.
It is a great way to prepare our children and ourselves to read the Bible.
It is succinct, and educational at the same time.
I definitely recommend this to every one I know.
This was our first bible story book. Nice illustrations.
For a Bible Story book it was not too bad. I don't know if it would be my first choice, but I would not tell people to avoid it.
By looks alone it's amazing, though i probably won't read it. I got it for Xmas one year and it's a 1938 hardcover version that's beautiful.
My copy is a big old hardcover. I did enjoy the stories, except for a couple things that I recall wondering about the theology of; I can't remember why.
My parents read us this book when I was a child. Now we're reading it to our children. A simple re-telling of the stories in the Bible.
My mother read this book to me every night as a child. Timeless.
