https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15584.Cosmos
It requires imagination, which projects meaning onto objects, making them signs by magic as it were.
This creates a mystery:  “For every sign deciphered by accident how many might go unnoticed, buried in the natural order of things?
A fetish is a sign of only itself; it is the feeling it creates.
Fetishes are dirty, shadow-side things.
In terms of projected meaning, the closest thing to religion and sex is death, the ultimate shadow.
A problem arises however when the desire to keep the projected meaning of death external leads to a self-protecting action - murder - thus confirming the objective otherness of death.
How many meanings can one gleam from hundreds of weeds, colds of dirt, and other trifles?’Polish author Wiltold Gombrowicz explores the notions of order in a seemingly random, chaotic world in his 1967 novel Cosmos.
Gombrowicz exposes the human desire to create order from the randomness that beleaguers their existence in order to view the world as a safe, functionary society in which they are mature and essential cogs instead of a chaotic void in which we are merely immature and irrelevant.
The characters in the novel crave order, desire some map composed of meaning and method to abate our fear of randomness and chaos.
So when he gave me his book, I was sure I would end up looking for philosophy in it even though he assured me it was just a bit of tom-foolery.
The reader is lost.Witold, I want to strangle you and hang you up on the nearest tree, I screamed silently.I’m noting only facts now as I read.
Any combination is possible...I had thought most deeply, most intensely, but without the slightest thought.In the end I told Witold - I had to crush him too, in case he did not mean it -It is a refutation of philosophy.
And so often strangeness turn into absurdity.The universe is full of absurd events… And some events are more absurd than the other events…“All this within time that was reverberating like a gong, filled to the brim, cascade, vortex, swarm, cloud, the Milky Way, dust, sounds, events, this and that, etc., etc., etc…”The universe is a mysterious place…And amongst all strangeness, absurdity and mystery we do abide.
We manage to solve some mysteries but on the way we create the new ones.
It’s all part of the same thing, the same madness: this need to explain, to decipher, to crack codes, to solve, to impose order and form on the world…like reading tealeaves or looking for Jesus on a taco.“The world was indeed a kind of screen and did not manifest itself other than by passing me on and on—I was just the bouncing ball that objects played with!”I’ve been a fan of the work of acclaimed Polish author Witold Gombrowicz for some time, having read and enjoyed his amusing philosophical novels Pornografia and Ferdydurke more than once.
Sparrow hanging in senseless success.
A choked chicken adds to the symbol equation.
Fish-face's boss hates him.
In an accident they stay the night.
Her mouth was a big bang.
Everything means nothing, and behind that mouth this mouth.
If you fuck someone you fuck everyone they have ever sheet between.
Her mouth behind other her mouth, his hands on her hands your hands.
Can't pick out ugly star from hot star from her sun star on his glow-worm.
White ceiling skies betray signs.
Dyslexic mystery.
The cat crucifixation is not a mystery.
Stay the night by put to sleep.
In realtà non so neanche se si tratti di una storia.
Lo stile è la cosa che ho più apprezzato di questo romanzo grottesco, urticante, a tratti divertente, ma troppo pesante in molte pagine, con l’onnipresente tesi dell’autore sull’impossibilità di mettere ordine nel caos che ci circonda.
Persino una teiera può essere un divertente e sorprendente agente del caos.A un tratto, al primo piano, vidi una finestra illuminata – la loro, quella di Lena e di Ludwik.
Esiste una sorta di eccesso di realtà, una proliferazione che va oltre il sopportabile.
It's clear he had read a textbook, remembered a term or two from it, watched how his professer used it, waited for his chance to parrot him.
92 "why this book is a bore" (In regards to the narrator's inability to concentrate.)p.
181 "OCD weirdo"I confess, I loved his commentary.
I would have liked to have been reading this book aloud to him, preferably at his bedside while he lay in a full body cast.Cosmos is obsessive, repetative in story and style, mind-rumbling and hilarious.
It is weird and the narrator is a weirdo (So I do, sometimes, agree with the college student.
How to Be Genuinly Obsessive-Compulsive, Not Artificially So"Cosmos" is finicky, fidgety, microscopic, auto-erotic, pointless but sharp as a scratchy saw. Like a perverted Conan Doyle. Like a psychotic entomologist I knew, who was nearly blind and wore absurd thick glasses and could be seen wandering around the college campus trying to peer at bees from one inch away. He thought that car crashes happened somehow on account of him. Like Freud's idea of Dali (as fanatic, as embarrassment to the institution). Could not be better.
The central idea is of how a chaotic world is routinely, perpetually, even grudgingly, willed by us human beings into some sort of an order, and how the effects of this willing add in turn to the chaos.
The problem, therefore, is one of limits.
And it is through ridiculing the limits that Gombrowicz creates his dark, nonsensical humor here.
The central mystery of the novel - who hung the sparrow?
- swells to heady proportions, less through the circumstances but more through the neurotic zeal of the protagonist chasing the answers.
In his un-moored consciousness, everything is at once the question as well as the answer.
Indizioni, indiziucci, indiziaccionastri, ti-ri-ti, ti-ri-ti…Si esce alquanto storditi (…e forse, a giudicare dal titolo che ho messo, un po’ rincretiniti!) dalla lettura di questo libro sconcertante che l’autore stesso definì: “un romanzo che si crea da sé, mentre lo si scrive”, dando l’idea di una deriva che trascina i personaggi, la trama, il mondo (e la fantasia del lettore…) in direzioni imprevedibili e vertiginose.
Romanzo totale che cattura o respinge dopo poche pagine, Cosmo è una di quelle opere che, come si suol dire con un luogo comune, più che una lettura rappresenta un’esperienza, un viaggio ipnotico nelle pieghe della realtà e del caos.
Bütün bu çabanın gitgide daha çok sığlaşmasından rahatsız oldum, Freüdyen sembolizm, onun da zoraki bir versiyonundan başka hiçbir yere bağlanamayacak imgelerden rahatsız oldum, İsveç kralı geliyor aklıma, kitapta da geçiyordu, şimdi burada da geçiyor, karakterin aklındaki sıçramalar eğer izaha gelirse üsturuplu, saçma sapansa birdenbireydi, yavaşça delirmiyor, basamaklı olarak düzgün düşünüp her basamakta şiddeti artıyordu ama bu basamaklardaki kopukluk da hissediliyor, duvarda sarı ışık, Lena'nın sümsük ağzı, bütün bunların aklıma gelen yeni öykü konusundaki kediyle de alakası olabilir.
Leon karakterinin bana attırdığı kahkahalar sebebiyle daha fazla puanını kıramazdım, hem ilk 70 sayfa filan, o kediye kadar bir şaheser, peki rahibin ağzı ne yapıyor öyle, ne yapıyor rahip ağzıyla, ha kusuyormuş.
If there is anyone who knows what the things are behind, in spite of and within themselves, it was this guy (I would go for "is" though, as, I believe, now he still knows it, only somewhere else).
"To stop connecting, to stop associating." Because it leads to madness.
But then try not to.In a way we are all mad, "connecting and associating".
In a way it is this madness that makes us be what we are.There is also an interesting passage on bringing yourself pleasure.
Out of a mouth of a nearly-madman or not, it sounded convincing.And the style, THE STYLE.
and as always in these types of stories, somebody's going to die before it's all over.Cosmos, like all detective novels, is all about finding the clues.
The traditional detective story tries to create order from chaos; take a number of seemingly unrelated clues, and then use your little grey cells to piece them all together into a watertight cause-and-effect narration of what happened; the killer is caught, the deviant object is removed and order is restored.
Gombrowicz'le bir şekilde bağımız olduğunu, yazarken hep aklının bir köşesinde onları benim okuyacağımı bilerek yazdığını biliyordum. Kendi ağzı ve elleri ve benim ağzım ve benim ellerim arasında bir bağ olduğunu biliyordum. Tüm bunlar söylenmedi, bunlar yazıldı. Söylenmeyenler aracılığıyla benim ağzımla onun ağzı birleştiler önce. Yazılanlarla ellerim ve elleri, gözlerim ve gözleri. Ama nasıl?Onun her bergine karşılık benden bir portakal. Berg ve portakal. Bergus portakalus. Portakalyum bergyum. Bergberg de portakalcık.
More tedium follows, escalating to the point that it becomes nail-biting tension.
A tedious denoument follows a thrilling climax.
Overall, the book offers maybe a 3:1 tedium/thrill ratio and no middle-ground.
Gombrowicz's translated prose here is not near as dynamic as that found in Bacacay or Trans-Atlantyk.
I expect that has to do with the translators' various weighings of the demands of accuracy and style.
The Cosmos/Pornografia two-fer features a different translation and it may be worth a reader's time to compare the two.Translation issues aside, it is hard to imagine a Cosmos with the energy and charm of Trans-Atlantyk.
Berg!Un giallo filosofico abitato da chimere, cadaveri e oggetti magici. Uno scrittore, che ama le oscure oscurità quanto il riso grottesco, esplora con il lettore il tragico e noioso mondo di Zakopane. "C'è nella coscienza qualcosa che la trasforma in una trappola per se stessa".
The main character in this book, a young man who is vacationing at a family-run pensione in the countryside with a friend, narrates an irritatingly tedious stream of consciousness, what could quite well be described as "mental masturbation." He is fixated on tiny perceptions--trivial things like the flicker of a finger or the look of some blades of grass, and obsessively rolls over them, and, with increasing frequency, cycles amongst the various images to an ecstatic miasma--all of them colliding with each other, and "relating" to the other in spite of their random unrelatedness.
Then as the novel progresses it becomes clear things make no sense to them, so they head out to the wilderness where the expanse of the world beyond and the connections they’ve never known or understood overwhelms them into a sort of perverted existentialism.From this rough sketch it’s clear what Gombrowicz is doing with his language: the logical connections between words are as important as the logical connections between events and things, and as more and more get introduced in various forms the words themselves form illogical connections to each other and become confused and disjointed, mixed up with each other, with the narrative, and with the characters.
Ma il finale conferma che il tentativo è vano: basta uno scroscio di pioggia per cancellare ogni traccia dei segni che fino a un attimo prima sembrava ci portassero in una direzione precisa.E’ una lettura difficile, resa ancor più difficoltosa dalla tentazione di trovare una logica nell’assurdo della storia, dei personaggi e del linguaggio, pieno di neologismi onomatopeici.
Durante tutta la lettura ho pensato quanto sia geniale la lucida follia di Gombrowicz, la capacità dello scrittore di esprimere con linguaggio e testo allucinato la propria visione del mondo.Se penso a quanto diceva Kafka sull’effetto che un libro dovrebbe produrre sul lettore, beh… questo libro non ti lascia come ti ha trovato.
I am convinced that most people read novels such as this, can make neither hide nor hair of it, but are afraid that admitting as much is to admit that they are unable to grasp depth and meaning in the depthless and meaningless.
Either the translating helped the novel and the translator deserves a star, or the translator hurt the book, in which case the author should be rewarded a conciliatory star.
I read one review that praised the author for his use of words and "parsing meaning" from them.
The author himself admitted as much in the beginning of the last chapter when he wrote, "I don't even know if it is a story.
It isn't a story.
Ho chiuso il libro e mi sono addormentata.
Mi è arrivato un sogno.
Il sogno era una voce.
Trascrivo quanto mi da detto: - La consapevolezza che non esiste un ordine possibile, ma solo fili sconnessi che non si uniranno mai a formare una trama sensata, e che tutto è casuale, può travolgerti come una vertigine.
E allora ti capita di forzare un senso alla realtà, con la stessa cocciutaggine con cui da bambina cercavi di infilare ad una bambola un vestito troppo stretto.
Ma la realtà non si lascia travestire docilmente come la tua vecchia bambola, e il senso si ritrae tra le pieghe del...
ma la voce qui è diventata un sussurro.
Poi mi sono svegliata.
(some spoilers follow)So here's the thing: I didn't want to read this book.
Giving 5 makes you a pretentious intellectual, giving 2 means you didn't understand the book and you're trying to rationalize it by saying you don't want to be a pretentious intellectual.
I'm giving 5 stars primarily because it's been the first book that I managed to read almost in one seating (with interest and joy) in a long, long time, and of course because I am a pretentious intellectual.
This is what Cosmos really is about: an illusion of oppression created by human mind, a paranoia fueled by words, sentences and phrases.
bird.stick.cat.mouths.A comprehensive synopsis of Gombrowicz's masterpiece.If one of the spirits of literary Modernism was the search for meaning in an increasingly anomic world, Cosmos answers the call and then some: anything suggests everything else.
Because of this, I wouldn't recommend Cosmos as an introduction to Gombrowicz; its literary accomplishments are all the more easily recognized and better appreciated if one has previously tackled Ferdyduke and Pornografia (both of which I also highly recommend).Gombrowicz's prose is admittedly an acquired taste, and Cosmos is as fine example of an avante-garde novel you're likely to find (yet another reason I recommend beginning with his earlier novels: easier reads that should assist in acclimating to Gombrowicz's unique style).
Un delirio semiologico."Il sonno della ragione genera mostri" diceva Goya ma la noia genera mostri come Witold e Fuks, gli sciagurati protagonisti di "Cosmo", romanzo dalle mille sfaccettature che potrebbe esser stato scritto anche da un Kafka allegro (sembra strano ma secondo gli amici il buon Franz si divertiva un mondo quando leggeva loro i racconti che ci sembrano così cupi e privi di speranza).Come in Kafka l'assurdo ed il grottesco irrompe nella vita reale ed allora è giusto lasciarsi andare e leggere le stravaganti avventure di questi due malnati che vinti dalla noia si aggirano in una Polonia assolata e si accasano in una famiglia di sciroccati.Non avendo niente da fare si dilettano a mettere in fila indizi ("Indizien" era il primo titolo tedesco del libro) come piccoli Holmes & Watson per tentare di dare ordine al caos e costituire un cosmo ordinato e intellegilbile.

Great translation. Gombrowicz uses a barrage of neurotic, repetitive language that creates a sense of absolute paranoia and psychological horror. "Did that windowpane look at me with a human eye?"
Gombrowicz gioca a nascondersi e lo fa travestendo da farsa il dramma, mettendo in scena una scombinata investigazione “simil-poliziesca” figlia della noia di due giovani amici, che dovrebbe indurre al riso se non celasse il tentativo folle e disperato di indagare tra le pieghe del caos con gli strumenti della logica per scoprire le leggi che lo regolano.
Ingannandoci però, perché quel filo che stiamo seguendo è solo uno dei mille fili possibili, che aprono mille porte dietro alle quali ci sono altre mille porte e così via… E, come se non bastasse, ognuno di noi è solo (ritorna la solitudine come molla della ricerca di Witold) e prigioniero del suo mondo, di quel mondo che ha plasmato piegando le cose interpretandole secondo i suoi bisogni.
Spiazzante opera filosofica sul rapporto tra individuo e realtà.Una delle principali caratteristiche che distinguono l'essere umano è la tendenza istintiva a cercare un disegno, un ordine logico all’interno del caos della natura, che altrimenti risulterebbe impossibile da gestire per il nostro cervello limitato.
Questo processo sfocia in un relativismo per il quale ogni soggetto risulterebbe chiuso all’interno della propria bolla di sapone immaginaria, sotto l’effetto delle illusioni che ha fabbricato per se stesso.Difficile descrivere meglio il tema dell’opera, che in molti tratti risulta incomprensibile a livello razionale, ma potentissima a livello di associazioni e suggestioni inconsce.Il personaggio di Leon, il suo linguaggio e le sue misteriose pratiche autoreferenziali sono una vera perla.Da rileggere tra qualche anno.
This book just did not work for me...and was basically a chore to read.
But merely for irritainment rather than illumination.Perhaps it could have been a beautiful poem, where its redundance would have felt more like an echo than a harangue.
Although even set in meter, "This berging with my bemberg with all of the bembergality of this bemberg of mine" likely would not have rung too clear.
Pitching this as a quasi-detective novel, now that's basically a crime.
I'd gladly read another book that demonstrates the dichotymy between the inner crazy whirlings versus the more placid, heavy-lided external projection of a character.
