https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8965.The_Vampire_s_Assistant
THIS IS NOT  a unicorns-and-rainbows middle school book and I loved it for that. Finally, something where morals do not outweigh the plot. Finally, there's  evil characters who are truly evil  (and not merely misunderstood). Finally, a book where death actually exists and  poses a real threat.  Hallelujah.  Darren is still reeling from the events of the last book. He must cope with becoming a bloodthirsty creature of the night. He doesn't want to kill, but is finding the impulse increasingly mor
THIS IS NOT  a unicorns-and-rainbows middle school book and I loved it for that.
Finally, something where morals do not outweigh the plot.
Finally, there's  evil characters who are truly evil  (and not merely misunderstood).
Finally, a book where death actually exists and  poses a real threat.
I love Evra's personality  - his dry humour combined with his outlandish snakeboyness.
P.s. If you read the books, I'd recommend waiting at least 2-3 years prior to watching the movie.
The movie was based on the first and second book.
His master, Mr. Crepsley, keeps pressuring him to drink human blood, but Darren refuses hoping to keep his humanity.
But with each day that passes without drinking human blood Darren grows weaker.
Crepsley warns Darren that if he does not drink he will die.
So Crepsley takes them back to the Cirque du Freak where this story takes place.I am enjoying this series a lot more than The Saga of Larten Crepsley series I read previously.
Though I think most boys would LOVE to be a vampire, Darren’s struggle with losing his humanity feels real even for someone young.
To read my review of the other books in this series, use the links below:
I like reading about an adventure of a kid growing up, so this series might be the thing to read, and hopefully resurrect the YA genre for me.
Hopefully he grows older in the next novels, because I would like to see the possible development of the main character.
This series seems like that at first, but the main character didn't go back, he became a full member of the circus.
I would love to read more about his adventures with Cirque Du Freak, and thankfully there are 10 more books in the series.3/5 stars.
The characters are well-written, the world is fascinating and strange and just terrifying enough for an adult, and the story is so different from any others I've encountered that I've actually continued reading the series instead of bouncing off to something else instead.
I rarely continue on with a series but with this one I find myself opening up the next book as soon as I finish the last because I can't wait to see what will happen.If you're looking for something gory, scary, and well-written, then grab this series and give it a chance.
بدايتها بطيئة، أحداثها غير مخيفة على عكس ما توقعتالنهاية أفضل ما فيها، آخر 30 صفحة تقريبًا كانوا الأفضل الكتاب الأخير لهذا العام، عام 2017 وداعًا :)
What makes Darren Shan's books a great read is that even though they're over 200 pages long, I can easily finish them.
The ending for me was a little shocking, but the way that Darren Shan writes makes you want to read the next book.
However, when you start reading personally I don't find it scary and I know it's unrealistic.
Even though this book is fantasy Darren Shan creates a lot of imagery for me as a reader.
Darren Shan writes in a way that as a reader you become part of the book, and that's what makes it so fun to read his books.
3.5/5 stars. RTC
Generally the tales of "when all the big, bad begins" has the most suspense and ambition, but in this case the character slowly settling into his new world ended up kicking the previous books butt and taking names.The ensemble of bizarre circus characters was truly intriguing - from his new friends and the unusual problems they face, to the leaders in charge who he must be wary of in both power and crossing lines, to some of the difficult and at times morally questionable work, Darren is also cursed with trying to accept what he now is and what he must do to survive.Sounding more emo than it really is, the boy doesn't struggle too much on page but instead experiences with a rampage of other emotions relating to interesting plot details.
The adventure continues of Darren, the half-vampire, as a vampire's assistant with the freak show.
In this book he makes two new friends as he is adjusting to life as a half-vampire.
I loved the book's age-appropriate discussion on environmental protection and animal rights.
As someone who has been a vegan for quite a while now, I thought the conversations between R.V. and Darren were true to life and the author did a great job in having a vegetarian character who wasn't dumb or obnoxious and who could offer a unique perspective on the freak show.
The Cirque du Freak series was incredibly popular when I was in junior high school, but after reading the first novel, I don't understand why. The characters were all very annoying and facile, the plot dragged on aimlessly and the sentences were choppy. This book was nothing special and not even worth reading.
این کتاب رو هم من مثل یکش خیلی دوست داشتم.یکی از دلیل هاش به خاطر معناش بود،یکی دیگه از دلیل هاش هم 
Unfortunately for me, the bookstore is big and full of millions of books so I'd forget what I was looking for the minute I walked in.
Luckily for me, I walked into a bargain bookstore and found an old, extremely damaged version of this book for clearance - so of course I bought it!
This book was fun, full of silly frights and awesome character development, and made me remember why I loved vampire novels in my youth!This book is quick - it moves fast and keeps you interested at every turn.
No, this isn't your average vampire book.
This book has things that Twilight and Evermore hid from you.
Mr. Crepsley is the person who blooded Darren to make him a vampire.
In this book, Darren is the assistant of Mr. Crepsley, he learns the way of becoming a vampire, learns the danger of becoming a vampire, and learns the behavior of a vampire.
Patience is needed to teach someone that became blooded at the age of 14.I absolutely loved this book.
This book has a bit of love in it, but isn't all over love like Twilight.
This book was quite gruesome but I liked it all the same. It is about The Vampires Assistant (Darren Shan) returning to the Cirque Du Freak with his guide Mr Crepsley (he was the one who turned him into a half-vampire). The difficult bit in the book comes when Darren Shan realises that he cannot stick to his humanity because he has to drink blood to survive. And he can't play with normal kids because he has powers and he might hurt them. So the whole book is about this struggle. Now I am reading number 3.By Cormac aged 9.
I definitely need a break after tolerating this amount of stupidity!!!But I can't leave the story. I'll start the series again some other time.
So my type!)This book is about a guy, Darren, who went to a freak show set up by some gypsy with his best friend.
After the show, his friend told him to go home because he needed to talk to one of the performers.
And Darren hide behind some curtains and overheard that the performer is actually a vampire and that his friend wanted to become the vampire's assistant and begged the vampire to change him.
The vampire didn't change his friend because he claimed that the blood was evil.After that, he went home and started avoiding his best friend.
در این جلد دارن شان خود را یک نیمه شبه معرفی می کند، او زمانی مثل همهء پسرهای دیگر انسانی کامل بوده است، اما برای نجات جان دوستش از مرگ، قبول کرده که زندگیش را به دست شبحی خونخوار بسپارد. دارن همراه شبح به سیرک عجایب میرود و دستیار او میشود. و ... ا. شربیانی
Another lively chapter book for children Now we have a werewolf And an animal rights activist Do the two mix?
About the Book:After witnessing a freak show, Darren Shan meets Mr. Crepsley, a vampire, and Madam Octa, Crepsley's performing spider.
However, there is a condition and now Darren is Mr. Crepsley's half-vampire assistant.
Now, there is nothing that can be done with the first problem, but Crepsley decides to help with the second by taking him back to the Cirque so that he can make some new friends that will prove tougher than humans.
It was really nice to see Darren interacting with more people his age, and his new friend, Evra Von, the snake boy, seems like he could be a pretty interesting guy.
From his feelings on becoming a half-vampire to being Mr. Crepsley's assistant, you see a lot of anger in our kid vampire.3.This installment in the saga of Darren Shan starts with Darren and Mr. Crepsley traveling, and later they head to the Cirque Du Freak, where they meet new friends, such as Evra the snake-boy, and the young human Sam. Sam really wants to join the Cirque, but his countless attempts to become a member don't work.
Darren sees Sam's backpack, and, realizing what happened, chases the wolf-man, and finds himself in an abandoned train station.
Like the first book, The Vampire's Assistant was very enjoyable.
This book made me angry, mad, laughed, and cry.
One thing I think that makes this book a little better than the first one is how much the Circus was in it.
In the first book, we only got to read about the Circus for a few chapters.
It gave us tons and tons of chapters that revolve around the Circus.
I got to learn about the history of the Circus.
I got to learn about the things happening backstage and about the Little People.
The ending of this book shattered my heart.
خوندن این مجموعه شیرینهمثل گاز زدن شکلات!
The second book is more interesting than the first one, and I sometimes forgot that I was reading it in English.
I felt like I was reading it in Japanese.
I really can't wait to read the sequel!
I think the book series is very dark, and I don't want to recommend it to children because I don't like children are involved in violence, and they mix up the real world and novels.
However, I highly recomend the series to English learners!
It's quite easy for reading and never makes us bored to read!
I really want to read the author's other books too!
Let me just start off by saying NONE OF THIS WOULD HAVE EVER HAPPENED IF YOU WOULD HAVE JUST DRANK SOME HUMAN BLOOD DARREN! Or you could have told Mr. Tall everything that was going on sooner than later, BUT NOOOOO. #imnotcryingyouare
Just 130 pages on my e-reader + an extremely simple writing style= a very quick reading experience.This one gets 3 stars instead of the previous 2 I gave the first book in the series, because of the ending.
This one ended really well; it was fittingly brutal, "fittingly" as in "in a book about supernatural beings with an already simplified writing, it was great to FINALLY get some violence that the writer chose to just tiptoe around up until this point"I'm already reading the next book in the series.
I really hope the writing gets better soon.
It a great sequel to cirque du freak and is one if the best books in the series, will lot of exciting moments that eave you on the edge.
بهتر از جلد یکش بود حس میکنم
بهتر از جلد یکش بود حس می‌کنم
A fun and fast-paced sequel. Ralph Lister once again gives a great performance as the narrator.
The book continued the story of the first book.
Once there Darren learns a lot about the circus and all its performers.
They meet new people, some that are good and others that are bad.
It had a basic plot line and everything that happened was foreshadowed, however somethings came as a surprise.
This makes the book much better in creating a vibe that scares and warns the readers about something that will happen.
Overall, the book receives a 5 star rating because of how well it is composed and how great the plot line is.
Las portadas de esta saga son bastantes feas.
Las considero muy pobres a nivel de diseño, pero lo justifico con el hecho de que son libros de hace más de 10 años, cuando las editoriales no invertían mucho en sus portadas.En cuanto la historia, me gustó muchísimo.
No me decepcionó, ni tuvo partes aburridas.En cuanto a las partes asquerosas, tuvo algunas, pero menos que en el primer libro.
En cuanto a los hombrecitos, en la película si se ven sus caras, cosa que no pasa en los libros.
