https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31131467-the-gender-game
Exactly!Why?!The story then follows our intrepid traveller as she makes her way over to male-ruled Patrus with the task of stealing back a precious item that they previously stole from Matrus.We get to follow Violet around as she makes mistakes, does stupid things and continuously puts herself in danger.At one point she comes extremely close to being either beaten up, killed or raped by a group of Patrus men who think she's a "stray" (a female with no husband).
The Gender Game is book one in a brand new series by Bella Forrest.
This book was generously provided to me in exchange for an honest review by NetGalley, NightLight Press, and by Bella Forrest.
I have seen several reviews where people didn’t like Violet.
Violet tries to keep her emotions out of things, trying to keep her eye on the end goal, something the Queen promised her if the mission was successful.
I did miss the romance factor in this one but am hoping for a little more in the following book.
"matrus and patrus" i am in awe at these names.
how astonishingly witty and original.
another thing that's astonishingly witty and original: battle of the sexes.
because wow because i've never heard that before.
cutting-fucking-edge stuff right here guys.
anyways when are cisgender people going to stop pulling this shit.
i guess trans people don't exist.
or non-binary people.
or intersex people.
anyways if this sounds bitter and angry that's because i am a bitter and angry trans person who is bitter and angry about people pretending we don't exist.
This seemed like a unique and exciting foundation for a novel, but, unfortunately, it fell through on the interpretation.The protagonist, nineteen-year-old Violet Bates, lives under control of the matriarchy.
Since the death of her mother and the apprehension of her younger brother, after her failed attempt to transport him over the river, Violet has lived in a series of detention centers due to ill behavior.
I found it difficult to find a side to root for, for much of the text, when neither seemed to have any redeeming qualities.I had assumed Violet would overthrow the patriarchy and make them reassess the female sex with her feisty independence.
(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to NightLight Press and NetGalley.)  “Once you reach the other side of the river, trust no one, Violet. Do you understand me?”  This was a YA dystopian story, in which different genders ruled in different cities.Violet was quite unfortunate in this story that she kept finding her way into trouble. At points it even seemed like she was doing it on purpose as she had very little regard for rules and regulati
This was a YA dystopian story, in which different genders ruled in different cities.Violet was quite unfortunate in this story that she kept finding her way into trouble.
The pace in this was just way too slow for me though, and I didn’t really love the forbidden romance either as again it just seemed like Violet inviting trouble in.The ending to this was the most exciting part of the book, but it left Violet in a very tricky position.6.5 out of 10
I have to stop buying $1 Young-Adult Kindle Reads and expecting them to be well written and well plotted. Played myself.
Her eyes are opened to a world that will deceive with ease while tossing trust out of the window for power and dominance.Maybe I took this too far with my search for symbolism and meaning, but, let’s see, women vs men, a toxic river dividing them, deceit in its worst form, and the hidden quests for power and control with hopes of destroying all who oppose them, all while actually needing each other for the strengths each other side possesses.
*ARC received from Netgalley, in exchange for an honest review*2.5 starsWhen I saw the blurb, I immediately wanted this book.
Then I saw the author and knew I just had to have it.
But sadly I'm left underwhelmed and confused.
The biggest letdown was the romance because....
What romance?
The whole book leads up to this big climax and the climax just ended up being a big ball of confusion.
I kept reading to see what came of all the cloak and dagger and to see where the hell this 'romance' would go.
Weak and confusing ending.
The narrative was full of pointless information and tiny details that only bored me, and it was a info-dump nightmare.
Even the new characters were introduced in a very info-dumpy and totally not realistic way.
Like, she sees the picture of Lee and every single feature is laid out.
She describes his eye color (of course grey-blue), his hair, his facial features...
And when we do it's another info-dump about his whole life within the first 5 minutes of them meeting??
I'm sorry but that's not realistic nor does it entice me to keep reading.
Although Bella tackled a completely different genre and theme in this book, her telltale descriptive writing and personable characters were still present...as were the most jaw dropping twists and turns to the story line.
Bella created characters that you couldn't help but relate to and fall in love with, while other characters make you wish to jump into the book and literally ring their neck!
It begins to answer the age old question - can love win out over all adversity?
Bella's imagination and her vivid story telling are so evident in this book.
Dismantling toxic masculinity doesn’t work when you position your main love interest as a ‘rugged’ cage fighter who smells of pine and ‘virile’.
Dismantling toxic masculinity doesn’t mean making a female character really ‘into’ cage fighting because she is psychotically aggressive herself.
Dismantling toxic masculinity doesn’t involve writing a kiss scene wherein the female character describes being overpowered by his strength and manly physicality.Dismantling toxic masculinity requires thoughtful, considered understandings of what it means to be, both, a female and a male living within a culture of ‘boys will be boys’.This book is neither thoughtful, not enjoyable.
3.5 starsThis is a hard one to review. I liked the main character but the world drove me mad. It's not bad world building it's just that the world is so wrong that it makes you want to scream. Imagine a world ruled by feminazis on steroids. With men totally subjugated, told what to do, what to work and tested for violence at a young age and then if the show any sort of spine are (view spoiler)[ carted off to a mine - according to the government - when most likely the poor boys are just killed (h
With men totally subjugated, told what to do, what to work and tested for violence at a young age and then if the show any sort of spine are (view spoiler)[ carted off to a mine - according to the government - when most likely the poor boys are just killed  (hide spoiler)] This is Matrus.
The entire world is just so awful that reading about it leaves a bad taste in my mouth and makes me want to throw my Kindle across the room!The plot was a bit overly complicated and at times things made so little sense that it;s ridiculous.
Patrus is ruled by men..See now why I was hesitantIn Matrus there is Violet, our amazing, tough and protective Heroine.
One incident leads to an accidental death and Violet gets blamed.In Matrus any violence is perceived as un necessary..
A choice of either being put to death or Marrying a man for an undercover mission in Patrus.
Violet seeing this as her chance to finally see her brother again, makes a deal and is sent to marry Lee in Patrus….
Viggo is the man that she is supposed to frame for the crimes that her and Lee commit against Patrus.
(I received a copy from Netgalley, In exchange for an honest review.)A generous 3.5I felt quite sorry for the main character in this at points.
For most of the story she was an okay character, but there were times where she annoyed me slightly.
Unfortunately though, after the first 25% or so, it went downhill a bit for me.It was still an interesting read, but there were a few parts that dragged for me, as they felt quite heavy.
The book felt quite long in areas because of those parts.Overall, An interesting read, but it lost some of my enjoyment after the first quarter.
i never saw a premise so awfullike... how can anyone not see how inherently transphobic and enbyphobic this isi bet there isn't a single trans character in this book & that non-binary genders aren't mentioned at allthis looks like it's such a huge mess smh
In this curious story about the split between the genders, we see a dystopian world where the countries of Matrus and Patrus are split by a toxic river.
Violet chooses to marry Lee in Patrus, where the two of them conspire to steal back the "egg" and frame another man for the crime.
While Violet tries to get accustomed to virtually being a pet in Patrus, she finds herself falling for the man she needs to frame, a man who has already had so much pain in his life.I loved this book and could not bear to put it down!
She has a history of impulsive, self destructive, violent acts and no experience at anything related to this mission.
A perfect choice!What happens is much like you might imagine if a teenager were to be recruited as a spy and sent on a secret mission.
Crazy, impulsive acts that continually threaten the mission.
The pace at the end picked up a little, so I was encouraged, but the story continued with its unbelievably ridiculous events and the annoying and stupid behavior of the heroine.
It turns out you have to read the next book to find out.
We were on a freight train with broken brakes.We had to execute, or die trying.But...I knew that I had become a different kind of passenger. The kind of passenger to leap from a runaway train. The kind who would not wait until the end. Two cities, separated by a river. On one side, Matrus is ruled by women; on the opposite, Patrus is ruled by men. Relations between the two societies are teetering. And Patrus has stolen something which Matrus wants back.The story starts out strong. Our hot-tempe
And Patrus has stolen something which Matrus wants back.The story starts out strong.
It felt rushed and thin, and by the time it ended I was frustrated by a lot of loose ends, the lack of resolution and a plot which was thinner than I thought it would be.
Especially towards the end, it became more like the author living her fantasy in this character.
I did like the cage-fighting subplot and how Viggo and Violet found a connection through that.
It was like the author couldn't be bothered giving him the time of day or letting him have the chance to establish his own motives or personality.
I enjoyed this book so much! It has a riveting storyline, intriguing characters, and a refreshing protagonist. it's fast paced. has many twists and turns. for me its been a long time since i read a dystopia series and or book, and this one is pretty good one to get me but into it, the only thing i didn't like is that it dose copy the hunger games just a bit in it's wording. but besides that i would recoomend it to anyone who likes dystopias and Sci-fi books
Clearly the author tried to get the point across that males and females should respect each other but the unequal balance meant both cultures failed miserably .Our heroine isn't as bad as she's painted and has fought to survive in her maternal society but has no doubts about her lowly place.
What I didn't like was the disparity between the two male leads as the author gives insight and depth to Viggo whilst Lee is in many ways still an enigma.Violet is tough but I was very surprised by a weapon she uses early on and will view dental work in a whole new light!
Okayish. I need book 2.
THIS IS SO MESSED UP AND I FEEL LIKE THERE SHOULD BE A DISCLAIMER ON THIS.Call me crazy but I purchase books based on the narrators.
AND she sounds like a teenager, yes!The Gender Game is an okay book and all of the reviews are correct.
Funny thing, I love descriptive books in audio format.
Go figure right?I need a big old picture spelled out to me as I listen because let’s face it, I sometimes get distracted when I listening to my books.I also love the new cover, it really reflects the true heart of the book.The Gender Game is a starter to a series.
I don't believe her actions were logical or believable.It's one of those books which is a series, but by the end of book one, it hasn't answered the necessary questions hence you need to read the other (seven?!) books in the series to actually reach a satisfactory conclusion.The ending was OK but like I say it brought up too many questions and tbh I called it from the beginning thanks to a sentence which appears near the start.
The actual premise and story world was really good I thought and highlighted important points RE gender.I liked the main character.
Great plot, interesting characters and full of suspense.
We have our main character Violet, a Matrus girl who is a complete bad-ass but accidentally gets involved in some incidents that gives her a criminal record.
When one accident gives Violet the chance to chose life or death, her answer is simple.
The story really focuses on these 3 main characters and we learn more about them along with their intentions as the story unfolds.
Violet knows she can't trust anyone, but will she be give in and trust anyway?
You'll have to read this great book to find out!
My main complaint about this book, is that its not a complete story. At my time of purchase nothing in the description indicated that this book was part of a series. Therefore, when I came upon the cliffhanger ending, I was a bit pissed. The story was pretty bland for the most part. I do think it has potential as a whole for a YA/sci fi dystopia series, but this one didn’t have much depth. I doubt I will continue this series. I am glad it was offered as a kindleunlimited though.
THIS. WAS. AWESOME! there's nothing more to say really. I was a bit skeptical at first due to the rating, but this totally worked for me! I'm off to the second in the series!Peace, A.
Thank you to Bella Forrest and Netgalley for providing me with an e-copy of this book in exchange for an honest review!Find this review and more on my blog The Rest Is Still Unwritten!The Gender Game is Bella Forrest’s latest release and is an absolutely brilliant and addictive dystopian read that will lure readers with its intense, intriguing world, strong protagonist and promising romance!
Nineteen year old Violet Bates lives in a world where a toxic river divides two different gender based societies; Matrus and Patrus.
Bella Forrest completely captured my attention with The Gender Game the moment I began reading.
I consider myself an avid reader of quite a few genres so it's easy for me to get cynical about storylines, originality and (if I make it far enough) the ending.
This is an intelligent book that I will happily reread.Violet Bates, being a criminal with a hot temper isn't a character you immediately believe good things are going to happen for, even in Matrus, a world dominated by women.
I found my cynical side completely curbed with this book as I haven't read anything as timeless, yet culturally relevant before.
I have this book...like on my kindle...as if by magic? What sorcery is this? It's EVERYWHERE and I thought maybe I had downloaded the test chapters in a fog/dream/drunken stupor....but no, it's the entire book!I seriously purchased it and forgot? Selectively? I'm not sure, but it's EVERYWHERE and it cracks me up to think that it sneaks onto people's kindles at night, whispering, "read meeeeee. you know you wannna...."
The country ruled by women, and where the men have a very limited ability to do much of anything.
After a final "strike" on Violet's record she is given the chance to keep her life if she were to go undercover in Patrus with her fake "husband" Lee. There is also an underlying love story that I was beyond pleased with.
Violet is strong and independent and has a hard time adjusting to life in Patrus, but does eventually come to understand that she really does need to subdue her natural instincts to be able to do the task required of her.You learn that not everyone is who they may appear to be.
