https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/748989.From_Doon_With_Death
5 Hours 28 MinsDescription: Margaret Parsons is dead.
She had been a "good" woman.
Religious, old-fashioned, and respectable, her life had been as spotless and ordinary as her home, as unexciting and dependable as her marriage.
However, it was not because of her life that Chief Inspector Wexford became involved, but her death.
How is it possible that a woman who had led such a quiet, respectable, unspectacular life could have met such a death of passion and violence?
To Wexford, it simply does not make sense, until he begins to slowly uncover the layers of Margaret Parsons' real life...
--There's a short section in the back of the edition of this book that I own which notes that Rendell did not follow along the Agatha Christie line and write mysteries based on characters of the upper class.
Indeed, From Doon With Death, the first Wexford novel, focuses on the mystery of the death of a somewhat rather dowdy housewife who goes missing and then turns up dead.
Overall though, I love Ruth Rendell's work, and I'm very happy to have read this one.I'd recommend it to readers who enjoy a good British mystery with solid plotting.
A good read that is written in an old fashioned style that introduces the main characters and sets up the series.In this opening mystery Inspector Wexford investigates the disappearance of Margaret Parsons, a housewife who goes missing and is later found dead in the nearby woods.
Margaret Parsons appears to have no enemies and seems to live a quiet life with very little excitement.
So the mystery is who has killed her and why?
There is very little for Wexford to go on but for a discarded match and an inscription on some of Margaret's books signed 'Doon'.
I hear her solo stories and other Reginald Wexford / Mike Burden cases are better; a good thing, because I own nearly them all, courtesy of bargain bins!
Two stars make sense.
That presents no memorable personality and in this case, I was glad Reginald was not in the story until later; that Mike is an equal protagonist.
Reginald was rude to Mike.
Finally, books belonging to that lady are inscribed with the titular name and we strive to suss out who that is.
The sole other interesting facet was how perplexing it was that this lady was killed.
I will try Ruth's first solo novel next time.
My reread of the first of the Wexford series was different than my first time through the book.
Back then, in the early 1990s, I was a novice mystery writer eager to learn from a master.
Now, I've written quite a few mysteries myself and I know what to look for.
I read, now, for deeper glimpses into Rendell's craft, and I'm not disappointed.
There's an art to writing a police procedural that is also a village mystery, and Rendell is the consummate artist.
Her characters--even the good-guy cops--are conflicted, flawed, stubborn, and utterly human, and her genre fiction is the best of its kind.
Predictable and charmless. This was my first Ruth Rendell and I started it with high expectations but was quite disappointed. The prose and epigraphs were good, which is why I’m giving this book a second star.
For some reason I had never read the Wexford novels before and it is a good beginning to the series.
The story begins when Inspector Mike Burdon is alerted by a neighbour that his wife is missing.
Although Ruth Rendell does use certain stereotypes, it is clear that she has laid down a great basis for further books - Wexford is plain talking, intelligent and not easily swayed by a pretty face; Burdon a great sidekick and the small town of Kingsmarkham well described.
There is also a great twist and sharp plotting, which bodes well and makes me want to read on.The next book in the series is A New Lease Of Death: (A Wexford Case).
That's the good thing, because it's an unfair book.
It hides information from the reader, and this information is vital to the solution of the case.
It is not a case of intuition, it is the answer to the mystery in so many words, in a conversation between the detective and another party, to which the reader is not privy to.
There is the open-minded attitude Inspector Wexford has towards people who are different from the majority.
The people are not at all charming, and are often more than a little annoying.
It seemed like it was time to get acquainted.Since this was the initial novel featuring Inspector Wexford, I suspect that as her series expanded, her detective grew more interesting to readers.
I generally feel that when I've read three or more books featuring one character I enjoy each successive book a little bit more.
That is an unnecessarily complicated way of saying that I'll try a couple more books by Rendell to see if they become "must reads."Wexford brings a somewhat cold, calm, matter-of-factness to the investigation and that prohibited me from bonding with his character in any way.
This is the first book by Ruth Rendell I've read (I know, shame on me). I was about 2/3 through, thinking it was well written, interesting, but not yet sensing it was truly special. My feeling, however, was that I should wait to see how she resolved it before reaching a conclusion. WOW! I have become a fan.
3.5 starsI hadn't read a Ruth Rendell in many years, though I remembered that I liked what I had read.This book was published in 1964, the year I was born.
(Which is why I read it now, to fulfill a book bingo square :)For the most part, I thought this mystery was rather ordinary.
(view spoiler)[Mostly because of the time when it was published.
Though having read a lot of Patricia Highsmith, it shouldn't have surprised me that much.
(hide spoiler)] And it all fit together nicely in hindsight, as a good mystery should.


I will definitely read more of the series. This one wasn't marvelous but I could see a lot of potential for her to develop the inspector into a great character.
A very enjoyable cosy mystery - the first in the Inspector Wexford series
FROM DOON WITH DEATH. (1964). Ruth Rendell. ****. This is a must read book – if only because it was the first Chief Inspector Wexford novel written by Ms. Rendell. It is a little weak in plot, and, typical of first novels, full of too many characters, but the underlying talent of the author is apparent. It addresses a principal social concern in addition to telling a complex story of murder and passion. Rendell’s books – at least those involving Inspector Wexford – always manage to revolve aroun
This is a must read book – if only because it was the first Chief Inspector Wexford novel written by Ms. Rendell.
Rendell’s books – at least those involving Inspector Wexford – always manage to revolve around some social issue.
He is also teamed up with Inspector Burden, his faithful ally in subsequent novels, and he works out of the central station in the small town of Kingsmarkham, a town that, for its size, seems to spawn most every kind of murder and mayhem that you might expect from a London.
If you are at all a Wexford fan, this book is key to learning who he is early on in his career.
I dislike detective series, I find it to be lazy writing more often than not and generally stay away from them.
Seemingly a classic British murder mystery, much like Christie, whom Rendell apparently disliked and strived to get away from comparisons to, and yet in retrospect very different.
Rendell's England is less than quaint (despite the amounts of tea put away), her world is distinctly darker and its denizens are distinctly more immoral.
And so, for a non quaint, psychological mystery that relies on neither sex nor violence, this is a very good read.
When I learned that Ruth Rendell had passed away recently, I was reminded that I have been wanting to give her mysteries a try for some time and immediately requested this book, the first featuring Inspector Wexford, and her first stand-alone mystery, To Fear a Painted Devil, from the library.
Both were first published in the 60s and seem a bit dated, especially the moral issue at the heart of this story, which probably seemed terribly shocking in 1964 but not so much fifty years later.
But Rendell's Wexford series has a great reputation so I'll probably try a few more before deciding to give up on the series.
If you love classic and timeless British mysteries, you'll love the first one in the Wexford series by Ruth Rendell.
In From Doon With Death, it's up to Inspector Wexford and Detective Burden to discover who killed Margaret Parsons.
They dissected and examined every piece of her life that went back to her childhood.
The closer they get to the truth, the more puzzling it appears to them on who's lying and who's telling the truth.
It all stemmed from that ancient book collection and the inscription.
In this fast-paced British mystery, there's lots of twists and turns with a shocking conclusion in the end.
Dated, but fascinating This book was published in 1964, and is well worth reading for those who like crime fiction, and for people interested in seeing how social mores and attitudes have changed since then. Characters are stereotyped very often, housewives must all be polishing their front doorsteps on their knees, the police force is all male, Inspector Wexford walks to work. It's a different world, but the novelist's eye isn't judgmental. Not a great novel, but a very promising debut in its time.
Me ha gustado. Entretenido y rápido de leer. Una cosa que me ha gustado es que el inspector, que es quien lleva el caso, no lo lleva él solito, como ocurre en la mayoría de novelas de detectives, sino que cuenta con un equipo que hace algo productivo. En ese sentido, me parece que le añade una nota de realismo. También me gusta el final, da un giro interesante, inesperado prácticamente hasta ese momento. Libro recomendable, creo que en algún momento leeré más de esta serie.
The first of the Inspector Wexford series -- but not the last for me -- was a pleasant introduction to Chief Inspector Wexford and his police-detecting methods.
Ruth Rendall, Con la morte nel cuore, giallo classico. Primo giallo con protagonista l'Ispettore Wexford.Giallista poco conosciuta in Italia, ma dello stesso calibro della Christie; ambiente provincia inglese.Se non amate i gialli splatter questo è per voi
Ruth Rendell is the high-priestess of the country police procedural, and one of the most important names in detective fiction.
There’s a stash of books in her library, all of which have passionate notes of love inscribed in them by a former lover, only identified as Doon.
The resolution to the crime hinges on that question, and Inspector Wexford goes about to get to the end of it.From ‘Doon With Death’ might not be as startling for today’s reader as it might have been for ones who read it in 1964, the year the novel was released, but it is still a mighty fine yarn.
This year Chief Inspector Reg Wexford celebrated his 23rd novel (The Vault), if one may put it that way for a fictional character; and he was "born" in Ruth Rendell's 1964 published From Doon With Death.
As the investigation progresses, the facts of her final hours are peeled back, onion skin like, and as other local residents come within the orbit of the investigation, new clues emerge pointing to teenage love affairs re-ignited.
I admit I had a pretty strong clue who the killer might be by about the book's mid-point, it in no way interfered with the pleasure of the working out and final revelations.
I had never read Ruth Rendell and had only vaguely heard of her when Scott Throw, in an interview, said she was the one mystery writer he always read.
This is Rendell's first mystery, written in the '60s, and her critics don't consider it her best (her inspector sits down and explains it all in the last chapter), but she has been called the World's greatest living crime writer.
Kate Atkinson is still my favorite mystery writer but Rendell is a very close second.
Margaret Parsons is a quiet young English housewife.
She is found strangled to death in the woods one day and Inspector Wexford is looking into the case.
There aren't many clues until Wexford discovers some books in the attic of the Parson's home that are inscriped to Margaret by someone named Doon.
Wexford then starts investigating Margaret's past hoping it will lead tom her killer.This is the first Inspector Wexford novel published in 1964.
The ending was also a bit of a surprise considering the time in which the book was written.
There's also a very insightful afterwards written by Daniel Mallory.
I have read one other Inspector Wexford mystery but this is the first in the series.
I enjoyed the style and the characters; Wexford can be a grumpy, frustrated inspector at times, but also sympathetic as the case needs.
The story isn't a cozy mystery, but also not graphically violent.
But the story is crafted very well and a enjoyable to read, flowing nicely from situation to situation.
I will say I had the general suspect and rationale figured out but it was nice to have it explained more succinctly and clearly.
Enjoyable first book and I do look forward to getting to know Wexford and his team better.
Ruth Rendell's first Wexford novel bursts on the scene fully formed. The language is beautiful, and the form of the police procedural (an archetypical example of the Morse/Barnaby generation) fully realised from the beginning. The debt to Christie is clear - the setting of the village with it's archetypical 'types' and class divisions. What I really savoured was the eye for detail and simply beautiful language. The performance on Audible by Terrace Hardiman is superb.
I love the books I have read under her other pen name Barbara Vine, but I have read all of her Inspector Wexford books because I enjoy his character and wisdom and following his interesting family life. This was just the beginning of a delightful series, I just began the most recent one and 24th Wexford, "No Man's a Nightengale" I would recommend this series to anyone who is looking for a great British mystery.
