https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/280277.Lucinda_s_Secret
She gave it "four and a half stars."She liked the Phooka, which is a monkey rabbit type faery, who speaks in riddles.And then meeting the elves was cool, although they are very tricksy.
There was even a unicorn!The kids go to see their Great-Aunt Lucinda in a hospital.
:/ At least she still has the sprites to keep her company.Well, the field guide has disappeared, so that is why the kids go in the woods and meet the phooka and elves and unicorn.They also suspect their Great-Great-Uncle Arthur might not have left his family by choice, but might be stuck somewhere in faery.Overall, this was good!
وتستمر المتعة
My sister and I read the crap out these books (we must have read them 15 times, no joke) and I've been wanting to revist this series and the wonderful fantasy world that Holly and Tony created for awhile now but I've finally gotten around to it.The writing partnership of Holly Black and Tony DiTerlizzi is remarkable and this series is by far some of the most well written literature that I've ever read.The three main characters, Jared, Simon, and Mallory, are so relatable and realistic.
I can relate to each of them in a different way and I think most readers will feel the same.I loved the illustrations and artwork a lot.
There's wasn't really any descriptions on the creatures so I had to rely on the illustrations a lot.
It's such a great fantasy series and it's amazingly well written.
เนือเรืองคอยๆเผยมาทีละนิดทีหนอย สำหรับเลมนีเราไดรูความลับของอารเธอร สไปเดอรวิกและไดรูวาหนังสือเลมนันมีความสำคัญยังไง เลมนีการผจญภัยไมคอยนาตืนเตนเทาไร แอบเซงตรงนิสัยของจาเรดนิดๆ ยึดติดหนังสือยังไมเทาไร พอมีอะไรชอบโทษมัลลอรีพีสาวตัวเองนีสิ ! แตชอบฉากตรงทีเดกๆไปคุยกับปาลูซินดานะ ดูขลังดี(view spoiler)[จาเรด ไซมอนและมัลลอรีเดินทางไปหาปาลูซินดาเพือทีจะพบวาอารเธอร สไปเดอรวิก ผูเขียนหนังสือตำราภาคสนามไดหายตัวไปอยางลึกลับ หลังจากนันพีนองตระกูลเกรซกไดพบวาหนังสือไดหายไป ซึงนาจะเปนฝีมือของทิมเบิลแทคแน เมือ
เนื้อเรื่องค่อยๆเผยมาทีละนิดทีหน่อย สำหรับเล่มนี้เราได้รู้ความลับของอาร์เธอร์ สไปเดอร์วิกและได้รู้ว่าหนังสือเล่มนั้นมีความสำคัญยังไง เล่มนี้การผจญภัยไม่ค่อยน่าตื่นเต้นเท่าไร แอบเซงตรงนิสัยของจาเร็ดนิดๆ ยึดติดหนังสือยังไม่เท่าไร พอมีอะไรชอบโทษมัลลอรี่พี่สาวตัวเองนี่สิ ! แต่ชอบฉากตรงที่เด็กๆไปคุยกับป้าลูซินด้านะ ดูขลังดี(view spoiler)[จาเร็ด ไซม่อนและมัลลอรี่เดินทางไปหาป้าลูซินด้าเพื่อที่จะพบว่าอาร์เธอร์ สไปเดอร์วิก ผู้เขียนหนังสือตำราภาคสนามได้หายตัวไปอย่างลึกลับ หลังจากนั้นพี่น้องตระกูลเกรซก็ได้พบว่าหนังสือได้หายไป ซึ่งน่าจะเป็นฝีมือของทิมเบิลแท็คแน่ เมื่อเด็กๆกลับมาบ้าน พวกเขาก็ได้พบแผนที่ที่ซ่อนเอาไว้ซึ่งเป็นเส้นทางไปสู่ป่าของเอลฟ์ พอไปถึงที่นั่น...เอลฟ์ก็เรียกร้องให้สามพี่น้องสั่งหนังสือของอาร์เธอร์มาให้พวกเขา แต่โชคร้ายที่เด็กๆไม่มีหนังสือ เป็นผลทำให้จาเร็ดถูกเอลฟ์จับตัวเอาไว้ ด้วยเล่ห์กลและสติปัญญาของจาเร็ดจึงทำให้เขาหลอกล่อเอลฟ์ให้ปล่อยตัวพวกเขามาได้สำเร็จ (hide spoiler)]
These are the kind of books I wish I could have read when I was a kid.
When the first book was published I was already in college.
But when I was 7-10 I read Boxcar Children and pony books.
I was always a huge fan of sci-fi, but didn't like fantasy until I was an adult.
Plus I just don't think this kind of books were available to me.
I don't know, but I feel like if I saw these I would have been interested in fantasy sooner.
I definitely want to read these to my daughters.
I enjoyed going to the hospital and meeting the not-at-all-crazy Aunt Lucinda.
I do hope that, in the end, the children and Aunt Lucinda can reveal the fairy world and let everyone (primarily their family) know the truth.
I enjoyed meeting the elves in the forest, and, while I was not surprised at the reveal that Arthur is still alive, I think it's very exciting.
There are some children's books (i.e. the latter in the "HP" series) that I think require a lot of consideration about what age-group they are appropriate for.
Holly Black truly has the uncanny ability to weave out a good story that circles around the fey folks. I've always enjoyed her fairy themed books. This one didn't disappoint.Plus, the beautiful artworks Tony DiTerlizzi drew really blended in well with the story.
3.5 stars
He liked the mystery, and really enjoyed how the whimsical illustrations supported elements of the narrative.
I have read many reviews in which readers have complained that the books in this series are very short, and that these books feel more like five novellas that should be one longer book.
He says the books are that much more interesting to read!I think that kids will find it easy to relate to many of the themes of the story.
I would recommend this book for independent readers 7-11 years old, but think that readers of all ages will be engrossed in the mystery and clever illustrations.
I can honestly say that this series is one that was really let down by the film adaptation.
Back when the film was released I found myself excited for what was to come, only to be extremely disappointed with what we were given.
Twists and turns are introduced when the three children decide to consult their Great-Aunt Lucinda who knows about the mysterious world which has been surrounding them.
As you would expect, things fail to go according to plan and the children are soon embarking upon the task which continues through the final two books.
In yet antoher Spiderwick Chronicel, the kids go visit their Anut Lucinda to ask if she,too, knew about the fairies, and how she can help them get rid of all the trouble they've been getting into.
In the proscess, Simon almost ruins his future by eating magical fruit, and Jared and Mallory get into a fight.Back home, even MORE danger comes their way....Read this book to find out more!I really liked it because, bsides talking to trolls, riding griffons and eating cookies, the Grace children argue about real life things like school and homwork.
I LOVE how the author squeezed that in the story so it would seem a more lifelike.If you read this, I hope you like it as much as I did.
It was a blast!
Yet another fun adventure with Jared, Simon, and Mallory as they explore more of the faerie world.
They meet their aunt Lucinda Spiderwick, hoping to find answers, but things might be more of a mystery than ever.
What started out as a fun adventure is becoming more and more dangerous the more the children learn.
You can also see how each of them deals with their frustrations over their situation and it makes them more relatable.
This third installment escalates the mystery that has been building, making me eager to continue onto the penultimate novel.
A nice read.
Además, me gusta mucho como son descritos en este libro (y todas las criaturas en general) ya que no son presentados como seres perfectos, estan mas conectados con la naturaleza y eso se refleja en su aspecto.
Aunque soy de los que imagina a los elfos etéreos y elegantes, como en el Señor de los Anillos, la forma en que son presentados aquí me agrada mucho.A pesar de el fuerte estilo infantil de la saga, la historia y la base en sí es muy interesante, una parte de mi desea una versión mas madura y oscura, habría sido perfecto!
Finally getting a move on the story!!
*3.5/5I really enjoyed the last chapters of this one! Definitely my favorite out of the first three.
*3,5*Zatiaľ najslabší diel série, ale príbeh bol aj tak fajn :-)
Cuando uno busca algo debe estar seguro que desea encontrarlo.
I liked the whole enviornmentalist aspect they snuck in there.
Definitely more action packed than the others have been! Very engaging!!
Not only do Jared, Simon, and Mallory have to deal with Thimbletack pestering the household constantly, but they are learning how to solve the mystery of their great uncle Arthur Spiderwick.
They are trying to learn about all the creatures that surround their house, and how the field guide came to be.
It was nice to finally get some background knowledge about Arthur and Lucinda, to know slightly more about the mystery of the Spiderwick family.
Like how Thimbletack warned Jared not to mess with the field guide in the first place, because it wasn't his.
The third book gave us more answers and introduced us to aunt Lucinda. In the following book we'll probably find out if Arthur Spiderwick is alive.
Still re-reading and re-living my childhood.
"Un niño humano es como una serpiente; promete mucho pero a veces miente." —Una vez me trajeron un fruto, pequeño como un grano de uva y rojo como una rosa. Me prometieron que no volverían a hacerme daño. Yo era sólo una niña tonta, así que tomé el fruto y mi destino quedó sellado. —¿Estaba envenenado?—En cierto modo, sí —contestó ella con una sonrisa extraña—. Era lo más sabroso que había probado jamás. Sabía como uno se imagina que deben saber las flores. El sabor de una canción que no acerta
"Un niño humano es como una serpiente; promete mucho pero a veces miente."
—Una vez me trajeron un fruto, pequeño como un grano de uva y rojo como una rosa.
Me prometieron que no volverían a hacerme daño.
Yo era sólo una niña tonta, así que tomé el fruto y mi destino quedó sellado.
Era lo más sabroso que había probado jamás.
Sabía como uno se imagina que deben saber las flores.
El sabor de una canción que no acertamos a nombrar.
Después de probar eso, la comida humana, los alimentos normales, eran como serrín y ceniza.
Por más que me esforzaba, no podía comerlos.
Having the Field Guide brings more trouble. The Grace siblings visit their great aunt Lucinda to learn more about the Guide and find out that Arthur had just vanished one day.Of course, this angers Jared. It reminds him of how his father had left them.I like how various faery lore is used throughout the book making the world of the fae even more vivid.There’s lots of fast-paced adventure and page-turning faery lore.A must read. Though probably meant for young readers (7-9 year olds), I recommend this to everyone who loves fantasy, folklore, adventure and tales of the fae.
So, this one felt like nothing really happened in it.
It was strictly an information-getting story, if that makes sense.
The kids do the one thing they have a motive for, which leads them to talk to someone and get a bit of backstory from them, which then leads to some things happening which leads to more stuff happening and information.
It didn't feel like there was a lot of buildup or motivation from anything.
With the (view spoiler)[introduction of the elves (hide spoiler)], there will hopefully be an event around them in the next book, since there is no way that will be the only time they're mentioned.Otherwise, Lucinda's Secret felt very fast and uneventful, but the outlook on the next story is interesting.
This book is very funny and strange. I loved every word of this book, it was like some delicious food and every time I read it it was like taking another bite. You really should read this book if you are looking for an exciting story with beautiful pictures.
This boy Jared is really annoying , I understand that his father’s leaving affects him , but still he is annoying...
I can’t believe that I didn’t realise how dark this series was!
3.5 stars
