https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144896.The_Enormous_Room
War-time JapesThe Enormous Room, the fictionalised account of Cummings's arrest and incarceration by the French on charges of sedition during WWI, reads like a Billy Bunter story.
But even then the mystery is another opportunity for appreciative admiration, "everything seemed ridiculously suppressed, beautifully abnormal, deliciously insane."The adventures in a French underworld of deserters, spies, war prisoners, and various unfortunates continue like a sequel to the Count of Monte Cristo.
After—oh, well." The finest etiquette must always be observed, even, no perhaps especially, when it serves no social purpose: "I did not sing out loud, simply because the moon was like a mademoiselle, and I did not want to offend the moon."The Enormous Room is, I believe, Cummings first literary effort.
Then here came Cummings, who at 23, went to Paris also to work as ambulance driver and capture his experience in this semi-autobiographical novel The Enormous Room.Being more known as poet rather that a novelist, I was expecting to see many elements of poetry in this book.
I thought that I missed the emotional aspect of the story because if you read this book only on the contextual aspect, it is so plain and simple: just as case of injustice and insensitivity done to an American youth by some people of the French government.
If I had the power to describe e.e. cummings's prose, I'd be even more of a genius than he was.
I can't understand why he spent so much time writing poetry instead.
Who else speaks of "a spic, not to say span, gentleman"?
Observes a man "buckle his personality" and "bang forward with bigger and bigger feet"?
Explains that he "hoisted my suspicious utterances upon my shoulder, which recognized the renewal of hostilities with a neuralgic throb"?
In speaking to you his kind face is reduced to triangles.
And his tie buttons on every morning with a Bang!
It was wartime; you do not play around with the military!While the book might be about the incompetence of the French, Cummings having been arrested on weak grounds, (view spoiler)[the deplorable conditions in the detention center and that his father had received incorrect information stating that his son had been lost at sea (hide spoiler)], instead the book is about the inmates of the camp, inmates of many nationalities sharing the large but cramped, filthy room where they slept, ate and came to know each other.
You must know French to read this book.
Like war literature, there is this gap between those who have actually lived in prison and their experiences and those who imagine.
However, from the several novels I've read by authors who have actually been in prison (like books written by those who have actually fought in war), the experience seems to create an almost surreal or absurd view of things.
He didn't walk in an innocent and exit an artist, but it seemed to be a vector of growth, an accelerant toward the artist.As I write this I also think there is a natural pull of artist and prison.
But I'm also really glad Cummings stuck to poetry after this.
And I suppose it's easy to be light-hearted about the time you spent in a French prison/detention center if you were only there for 4 months.
There's nothing really disturbing about "The Enormous Room." The guards are assholes some of the time, but mostly he just describes them as being moronic.
There's no real villain here, other than the French government, as you discover the piddly things most of these men (and women) did to get thrown in prison.
Cummings never really becomes despondent over his time there.
Ugh. Not finishing and NOT going to.I absolutely adore e.e.cummings poetry.
I was pushing myself to keep going, and kept pushing, but after getting about 60% of the way through, I give up.
It comes off as a series of barely organized anecdotes, with a thin thread of only semi-chronological narrative winding through.
Sure, the way he analyzes and describes people might be interesting and funny - and I normally appreciate the use of irony, cynicism.
It was about as meaningful to me as reading someone else's notes taken in shorthand.I'm at least glad to see that others really enjoyed this, and that it comes by its classic status appropriately.
This as my second attempt, didn't beyond a third of the way through on the first go. This time with the help of serial reader I've finished. For me this could have been so much more enjoyable if I'd felt empathy with the characters.
It soon became uncomfortably clear that cummings and I had certain similarities, mosty centered around insisting that we do things which only fit our narrow moral compass...and making flippant remarks concerning such to those in charge of our lives.While this story is about cummings when he went to WWI as an ambulance driver in France, his lack of enthusiasm for the cause of war in general got him thrown into a French jail for 4 months.
In truth finding solitude at a young age is next to impossible only because of the things playing on in one's own head.In a way, this is a story of Dante's own pathway through hell and finally a kind of heavenly modern salvation.
During WWI, e.e. cummings was, like Hemingway, a volunteer ambulance driver.
. The author's sense of absurdity transforms the outrage of unjust incarceration into a high-energy romp." This memoir, the back continues, "ranks with the best of its contemporaries, including the works of Hemingway."Lies, lies, lies.
I rarely fail to finish a book, but this was so grindingly boring, I had to quit.
If anything, I think cummings missed an opportunity to write the memoir that the back of the book claims this was; that sort of memoir could've been a classic.
I loved his writing style, especially the incorporation of French words and phrases into the text without translation.
It reminds me of the way we (American students) spoke amongst ourselves when studying in France in college, constantly pulling French into our predominantly (sadly) conversations in English.
I thought this worked really well, literarily.I also liked the character portraits of his fellow inmates.
I thought he drew such wonderful/evocative descriptions of them.
I felt like I could picture them so well, and I kept thinking that it would be wonderful to then see them on film.
Cummings, imprisoned for supporting anti-war sentiments in France, describes the strange and poorly-run prison where he spent the end of the war.Though he's devastatingly clever and does his fair share of attacking the madness and incompetence of the French government and the modern world in general, what's really striking about this book is the voice of the speaker.
He's full of amusement and wonder, despite the awful things going on around him, and choosing to focus on the memorable characters he met in prison.
There's an acceptance and a sense of adventure that permeates the book, and in the end he's actually disappointed to be released.
Not at all what I expected, easy to read and enjoyable, plus auto-biographical.Interesting for the subject material but found the sense of humour a bit trying from time to time.
"But if he could describe it all He would be an artist. But if he were an artist there would he deeper wounds Which he could not describe."--from "Silence" by Edgar Lee MastersI discovered that poem when I was younger, and those lines at the end of a stanza about a former solider who's unable to talk about what WWI was like for him have stuck with me. Every time I opened this book, I couldn't help them running through my head.e.e. cummings is one of my favorite poets, but until earlier this year
or in the cour, speaking to no one, sunning his soul....""and laughed throughout his whole body""She struck me immediately as being not only intelligent but alive."About politics:"the [great] and [good] nations demanded of their respective peoples the exact antithesis to thinking; said antitheses being vulgarly called Belief.""in finding us unworthy of helping to carry forward the banner of progress, alias the tricolour, the inimitable and excellent French government was conferring upon B.
Perhaps because Cummings was an artist as well, fond of sketching the characters and situations he describes in his book, he has a gift, better than any author I have ever read, for capturing and recording both the physical aspect and the personality of each of his characters.THE ENORMOUS ROOM is an eclectic jumble of many things.
It is, perhaps, a prison story — it is Cummings’ general account of the three months he spent at La Ferté-Macé, which was sort of a temporary holding place for those people the French government suspected of wrongdoing but had not yet been proven criminals.
I had always thought e.e. was a woman.I learned quite a bit about the author as I read this book which describes his time in a french prison camp during the first world war.
But, that isn't really how I read so there are, undoubtedly, many parts of the book I just didn't get.At times the author seems to ramble and I think, maybe, the formatting for the kindle and my lack of knowledge of French combine to make this rambling seem even more disjointed.Overall, I enjoyed the book and I'd love to know (view spoiler)[what e.e.'s friend, "B" wrote to cause the censor's ire..
Cummings, The Enormous Room (Liveright, 1921)Cummings became famous for his poetry, but before that he wrote a now obscure novel-cum-memoir about his temporary imprisonment during World War I, The Enormous Room.
The friend is charged with treason after writing letters home critical of the French government; Cummings is charged with nothing but being his friend.The book touches all the expected bases; the horrors of war, problems with authority, etc., etc.
Cummings' enthusiasm for his subject, though, is a refreshing change from the usual war novel.
So this is what you get when a poet writes a fictionalized (?) account of his 4 months' detention in France during WWI.
There's little of 'story' here - just a constellation of character sketches (including Cummings' actual drawings of his fellow inmates), the lovely occasional insight, and a lot of clever and delightful phrases.
Anyone whom the police could find in the lovely country of France (a) who was not guilty of treason (b) who could not prove that he was not guilty of treason.
There were sections of this book that I really enjoyed, while other parts I found dragged a bit.
I also think I missed out on some of the jokes/interactions because of the amount of dialogue in French, of which I was only able to understand a little.
Because of the sections that had me smiling and laughing out loud, I would say I liked the book, but there were those parts that kept me from really liking it.
Still it reminds me of Cheech & Chong:The first day of my summer vacation:I woke up, then I went downtown to look for a job.
Then I hung out in front of the drug store.The second day of my summer vacation:I woke up, then I went downtown to look for a job.
Then I hung out in front of the drug store.The third day of my summer vacation:I woke up, then I went downtown to look for a job.
The I hung out in front of the drug store....I read after all the character development that is gets better.At 54% in I no longer care.
Very interesting book in many ways.
The descriptions of characters and scenery are written with enormous (no pun intended) prose.
Always been a fan of Cummings poetry and this did not disappoint when it came to his writing style.
The optimistic way in which he potrays his predicament in this novel is at times comical and at times mildly disturbing.
Altogether a good read for me.
I can understand some of the reviews that I have read on here eluding mostly to the fact that the plot never really goes anywhere and that it is mostly just a descriptive account of people in the prison.
I knew that I liked ee cummings as a poet, so I thought I'd try him as a novelist.
At times, all you want to do is wallow in the text, floating around in the strange syntaxes and odd word usage.
Cummings takes the English language and flips it upside down, then twirls it around to fit the shapes of his ideas.
The only reason I gave it 4 stars and not 5 is that this language usage can become too personal, so only cummings knows exactly what he means and the rest of us are forced to guess.
I actually read an old Modern Library edition of this book without ISBN that originally sold for 95 cents and that we bought at the library bookstore for $5.00.The book struck me as a celebration of the human spirit. The men imprisoned in The Enormous Room endure squalor, disease, malnutrition but the greatest loss is the loss of freedom. Still, a few pure spirits soar in Cummings's prose.Read this if you think the Geneva Conventions are quaint.
I am calling this book 'finished' even though I have not finished it. I don't get it. It's by E.E. Cummings, the humerous poet. But I don't know if this is comedy, satire, drama, tragedy. Mostly I just found the 100+ pages that I read kind of boring. Not much happens, and I am not sure what happens when it does. It feels like a WWI 'Catch-22' in some way, but I really am not sure if it's satire. If anybody knows, do let me know!
Was it all the French that frustrated me and made me bored out of my mind? Or was it the realization that Cummings was a Protestant agnostic who basically worshiped himself? Hard to say. I was hoping this experience would have purified him more, but much like his poetry, the book is ambiguous.
It's very clearly a memoir written by a poet--a slightly obscure style, meandering narrative movement... and flashes of incredible momentary insight. Worth reading more than once.
An amazing text from WWI, this typescript edition has E.E. Cumming's illustrations to accompany the story of his imprisonment during the war.
This should be three and a half stars.
This book is for lovers of history, war, poetry, mice, crowds, jazz, lonliness, hysteria.
I read this as because it is one of the 1001 Books to Read in Your Lifetime.
I chose it because I love cummings’s poetry, was unaware that he had been imprisoned in France during WW1, and equally ignorant of the fact that he wrote a fictionalized account of his ordeal.The book itself is anticlimactic.
What makes this book special is the glimpse into cummings’s wry humor.
While it will not be among my all-time favorite books, I know I will use what I learned when I teach my students about his life and works.
