https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/766419.A_Time_to_Keep_Silence
He starts his monastic inquiry with them at St. Wandrille and it is with them we find him three years later in the afterword, having not only revisited the abbey several times in the intervening years, but having apparently become the regular guest of the three revived Benedictine cloisters of England as well.Although it is clear he comes to appreciate the monks, Fermor does not start off doing so.
He takes a slow tour of three monasteries - two in France, one in Cappadocia in what is now Turkey.
He is alienated at first by the silence - he thinks it silent like a tomb - but eventually he begins to have some grasp, if not total understanding, of the silent devotions which takes place here, and how such a life so alien to our modern existence could continue.
Not for nothing had these painters followed so closely after St. Theresa and St. John of the Cross, and so faithfully portrayed the external stigmata of monastic obedience, prayer, meditation, mortification and mystical experiment — the traces left by the soul’s dark night, by the scaling of heavenly mountains and the exploration of interior mansions.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...the troubled waters of the mind...Here’s a cathedral: a rocky stream flowing from distant hidden sources in the blue mountains, mountain-cold and crisp on my reddening ankles which bend to accommodate footholds among the slippery stones, I am little more than a child and my swimsuit is speckled with spray, the light drifts down through the bending trees (a verdant heliocanopy where breeze plays and sings, there it is mirrored and turned to shards where the water breaks around the bank), and have you ever smelled the wind filtered through mountain-forest and swept across pastures where dung piles and hay bales perfume its breath, its freshness made pungent and then herbed with leaf sap, so that the many smells settle into just this one memory’s moment?
Other authors had referenced it, and I thought it was going to be a 96-page meditation about the power of silence and how rejuvenating it can be to take time away from the hassles of modern life.While there was some of that, most of the book was about the history and routine of venerable monasteries in France and Turkey.
This new dispensation left nineteen hours a day of absolute and god-like freedom."Fermor spends many pages sharing the history of the Abbey and of some of the monks who live there, and describing their daily routine.
L. F., the Dalai Lama of travel writing (and the New York Review of Books' favorite Buddha), may have felt a little lost and confused when he visited the Abbey of St. Wandrille de Fontanelle in Northern France, when he journeyed from Solesmes to La Grande Trappe, and when he went to the abandoned rock monasteries of Cappadocia while travelling through Turkey--but while I slunk away in embarrassment and never went back, he wrote this beautiful little book instead.
The stark, almost brutal beauty of the places and lives Leigh Fermor describes is almost--almost--enough to make me reconsider my fear of monasteries, but I would probably benefit more from rereading (and rereading again, and again, and again) this little book.
The book that emerged from this sojourn, A Time to Keep Silence (1957), may not be the book Leigh Fermor intended to write when he entered the abbey; but this short, sober meditation, drawn mostly from letters he wrote during his stays at St Wandrille and other monastic communities, remains a favourite with many readers who delight in its gentle insights on the rigours and rewards of the cenobitic life.‘A novice advanced with a silver ewer and a basin; the Abbot poured a little water over our hands, a towel was offered, and our welcome, according to Benedictine custom, was complete’.
Fermor stayed at the monasteries themselves so got a living version of what it was like to be there so was able to describe in intricate detail the spiritual magic of the place.
The contemplative silence, the fasting, the self-denial, the focus on God and the attempted focus on prayer and good is not something totally alien to devout Muslims in the world (I couldn’t tick all those boxes unfortunately :( In places the book was beautifully descriptive and there was a beautiful simplicity to Fermor’s writing style that is very refreshing.
Trata-se de uma das obras mais conhecidas de PLF, que reúne relatos de estadias do autor em mosteiros na zona francesa da Normandia, bem como da visita às ruínas de um mosteiro cristão na Capadócia, abandonado há cerca de mil anos.A escrita de PLF é de uma qualidade extraordinária, a sua capacidade de descrever características artísticas e arquitectónicas, de contar a história e as histórias associadas aos lugares, de relatar as suas impressões e as suas experiências pessoais, tudo qualidades que tornam a leitura uma experiência de luxo.Destaque para a tradução de Alda Rodrigues, que mantém o texto a um nível de qualidade literária muito elevado.
Each topiaried head was poised, as it were, on three cylinders of white fog: the enveloped body flanked by two sleeves so elongated and tubular that their mouths touched the ground, flipping and swinging, when the monks were in motion, like the ends of elephants' trunks.Ostensibly, A Time to Keep Silence is about visits to four monastic communities over a three-year period in the 1950s: St Wandrille de Fontenelle, Solesmes, La Grande Trappe, and finally, the remains of the Byzantine tufa rock monasteries of Cappadocia in present-day Turkey.
A few quick little bits about monasteries, one Benedictine, one Trappist, and some monasteries carved out of stone in Cappadocia.
This may not seem like much, and it's not, but it's also perfectly done; Fermor's prose (this is my first encounter) is wonderful and wonderfully English (syntax!
Just as importantly, Fermor treats the monks with respect but not unquestioning awe.
He's obviously a little uncomfortable at La Trappe, which seems reasonable--whereas the Benedictines offer splendor, an obvious path back to the history of Christianity and, indeed, Western Civilization, the Trappists seem to offer little of anything other than suffering.
PLF's two great gifts - boundless, obscure knowledge, and an infectious enthusiasm - are brought to bear on the sombre beauty of monastic life, in France and (now abandoned) in Cappadocia. Even if you think you're not interested in the topic, Fermor will rope you in.
I'm most familiar with Patrick Leigh Fermor through his charming, erudite memoirs of travel through Europe.
A Time to Keep Silence is a fundamentally different sort of book, concerning time he spent as a guest in various monsastic orders throughout Europe.
The tone of this short book is, by nature of its subject, contemplative, and he does a brilliant job not only of elucidating the obscure historys of these monasteries, but also of conveying the ambiance and inherent peacefulness they present to a modern, secular sensibility: the sheer otherness of their routines, rhythms and missions.
In a scant 100 pages including multiple forewords and afterwords, Fermor visits four monasteries in the early 1950s (three active in France, the other a millennium-abandoned in Turkey) and writes about the monastic life and its settings.
Fermor still sounds apologetic about this in an afterword written 30 years later and far be it from me to accuse him of abdicating some kind of writer's responsibility but it does seem that in a work which is really about the writing and not some sort of magazine article purporting to report on a subject, that is scarcely an issue.
This is just a stunning, slim volume which, like every encounter with Fermor's prose, leaves me wanting more and with the need to tell everyone who will listen that this book is beautiful. I have no complaints, and the lists of friends and acquaintances who need to read this book is exhaustive.
Nos primeiros dias, na sua cela, sente-se deprimido e angustiado, com o isolamento, a falta de distrações, a vida rigorosa e austera, as regras bem definidas que mesmo os visitantes devem cumprir.
Se os beneditinos levam uma vida rigorosa, os trapistas, que o autor visita a seguir, são ainda mais "radicais" e despojados, mas ambos o fazem pela mesma razão que, obviamente, não irei aqui revelar.
Entering and leaving monastic life seemed reminiscent of falling into and then struggling out of certain forms of addiction -- a definite struggle:"If my first days in the Abbey had been a period of depression, the unwinding process, after I had left, was ten times worse.
'Yes,' the Abbot replied; 'in the outside world, speech is gravely abused.' Our world is even more noisy than it was in the 1950s when Leigh Fermor wrote this book: piped music and mobile phones jangle ceaselessly, and silence and solitude are shunned as alien and unnatural.
In less than 100 pages, A Time to Keep Silence outlines the harsh beauty of monastic life.
The monastic life is described as one of "hammering out in silent factories the imponderable but priceless benefits" of prayer.
The silence encountered by Leigh Fermor, though at first stultifying, becomes a secret source of power.
For my hosts, the Abbey was a springboard into eternity; for me a retiring place to write a book and spring more effectively back into the malestrom.
I fiercely loved Fermor’s ‘A Time of Gifts’ and ‘Between the Woods and Water’ –two volumes recounting his 1930s jaunt across Europe on foot.
If this brief little book isn’t so expansive as those, it isn’t intended to be.
Here Fermor recounts some of his experiences and impressions visiting and staying in monasteries in France, the UK and Asia Minor.
The final section on the ancient abandoned rock monasteries of Cappadocia is a brief, evocative masterpiece in itself.
The trademark qualities of Fermor’s prose are present throughout: richly textured, precise, full of savor.
Although not a Catholic, Patrick Leigh Fermor had a deep appreciation of Western culture.
I was literally blown away by his accounts of his walk from the Hook of Holland to Constantinople after being summarily dismissed from his English secondary school at age 17.
This book is an account of his stays at three major monasteries in Belgium and France where he sought quiet time to finish some writing and to learn something about the monastic tradition.
He also visited some ancient sites of early monasteries in Turkey, where the tradition began.
His reactions to and appreciation of a life so radically opposed to the prevailing culture is full of interesting observations and thoughtful insights.
Read this a long, long time ago--so long ago, that for all practical purposes I don't remember it, which seems a shame from brief glimpses at my highlights. Found this when cleaning and rearranging books on shelves. It looks like a gem.
Wonderful. Captivating prose and highly intellectual, but not pompous, language and description. Not to mention, it's a true recount of experiences. Will revisit often.
He writes "The two ways of life [monastic and secular] do not share a single attribute; and the thoughts, ambitions, sounds, light, time and mood that surround the inhabitants of a cloister are not only unlike anything to which one is accustomed, but in some curious way, seem its exact reverse."He gives a history of the Abbey, which, far from being a millenium-long island of peace, coped with many periods of dis-establishment, despoilation and despair; in fact as recently as 1901 the monastry was dispersed, and passed to a new owner who roller-skated down the cloisters followed by his various hounds!
Short, but thoughtful, even poetic. Leigh Fermor stayed at several monasteries in France in search of peace and quiet rather than from deeper religious motives. Excellent on both history and current (ish) practice, particularly evocative description of La Grande Trappe. The last section is about a long deserted monastery built into the hills in Turkey, interesting but rather different from the rest which makes the book a little uneven. Beautifully written.
A very short book, but one that endears itself to me. There have been times that I wished that I lived in a monastery. Patrick did this to write.I would want to do it to read.The complines and other other services also entice me.Read this and beware your change.
beautiful.
This is a very short account of the author's time spent in various monasteries. The story of his visit to the first monastery is the best. A tranquil read. I finished it in one sitting.
First, a story about the devil's strategies for how to deploy his demons.
He sends his sleepiest, laziest, and under-qualified demons to cities b/c they are a lost causes anyway - dens of sin that have already crossed over to the dark-side.
However, he sends his most qualified legions to the devout enclaves of the monks.
Fermor also recounts a wink and nod story from one of the monks regarding their vow of abstinence and a "hair shirt" worn by monks made basically to be uncomfortable and ruin any type of arousal one might have.
This one, "A Time to Keep Silence," has the distinction of being very Short (96 pages), which meant that it perfectly fit my need for something "quick" to read while I take a breather from Les Miserables (Hugo has been talking about nuns and convents forEver, and I was about ready to throw the book across the room, except that it's on my Kindle).
What I Expected was a book about a spiritual growth experience, in which Fermor would spend time in some monasteries and would emerge with a new appreciation for the contemplative life, and maybe a spiritual insight or two.
He is the last person that you would expect to venture into a monastery to spend time with the monks.
A lot of the monks day is spent in silence, particularly over meals, difficult for someone who has spent much time enjoying the social aspects of sharing food and wine.
In the one monastery, the librarian provided him with the key so he could enter as and when suited him, and he spent time reading his way through some of the books there.
A Time to Keep Silence is about Patrick Leigh Fermor's travels to four monasteries: three in France and one in ruins in Turkey.
The third, La Grande Trappe, where he learned more about the isolated and highly repentive Trappist community.
The fourth, the rock monasteries of Cappadocia, Fermor seeks to find traces of the beginnings of Christian monasteries.Thank Goodness for my art history class and my semester of French I or else I would be totally lost.
Most of all, I loved learning about the Trappist community in La Grande Trappe.
I learned an immense amount about Christian monasteries.
