https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1490767.The_Feynman_Lectures_on_Physics_Vol_2
Once again it presents the material in a rather original fashion, which makes it more interesting for who already knows what is going on and more confusing for a beginner.However, this book is more balanced in my opinion.
The more original chapters were in fact on extra material like electricity in atmosphere, the principle of least action, or curved spacetime, which are the ones that a deep understanding is less relevant, and originality make them much more interesting.
But I feel those are minor issues.Overall I'd say 4/5 for both a beginner and someone who already knows the material covered.
I neither read the book, nor do I have enough knowledge to understand the recently published article called  Surprises of the Faraday Cage  by Lloyd N. Trefethen, but it seems that even a genius like Feynman makes mistakes sometimes in his field of work. And that’s sort of comforting.
Used these classic texts as a freshman physics major at New Mexico Tech. Very challenging books, but provide insights into the world of physics and the workings of the great mind of Richard Feynman!
1 thing I did like about this book is that it is full of content, what I mean by that is that there isn't a single sentence throughout the entire book that doesn't give more information or more knowledge about physics or the concept at hand.
Despite some of it's flaws, Feynman lectures volumn 2 is great for those who want to get ahead and learn advanced physics and understand more about magnetism, electricity, currents, etc.
If someone asks me to recommend some literature relating to science which is at the same time interesting and hardcore, I will recommend these Feynman lectures and QED (Quantum Electro-Dynamics) right off. This a great reading and highly recommended if you want yourself to get interested in Quantum physics at a whole new level.Here are video lectures by none other than "Mr Richard Feynman" himself.http://vega.org.uk/video/subseries/8
Read & Reread & read again..
I abandoned this book as I did it for the first volume of the series, https://www.goodreads.com/review/show....
Still to start on this one.
Hard to gain adequate comprehension but that's not Mr. Feynman's fault. Complex topic better understood by facile young brains..:-).
This is an excellent set of physics lectures. Feynman was very talented at right to heart of the matter and making everything seem obvious.
