https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/158218.The_Pendragon_Legend
And sometimes it reads like Antal Szerb is taking the piss out of the The Da Vinci Code, the only hitch being that this novel was published in 1934, almost 70 years before.
Once again, Len Rix, the translator is brilliant for -improbable as it may seem - the novel in English reads almost like in Hungarian with the same flavours, aromas, feelings, what have you.
:) A British friend of mine whom I gave this book as a present told me that the book read just like it was written by a British author and for this particular book, and I guess also for Antal Szerb, you cannot give a higher praise than that.
There is a quintessentially British sense of humour bringing P.G. Wodehouse and the early Evelyn Waugh in mind, but nonetheless Szerb pokes fun at Englishmen, Scots, Welshmen and Irishmen from the continental point of viewof Janos Batki, 'Doctor of Philosophy specialised in useless information'.Batki is a Hungarian academic in London toying with his rather obcure research in 'English mystics of the Seventeenth century'.
The Hungarian author was clearly fascinated by Britons and I bet he had great fun while writing 'The Pendragon Legend' which was his first novel.You can get that Szerb was witty and well-read as well as a man who loved to court women and being playfully seduced by a pretty face.
and after all I'm not 100% English myself.) The Pendragon Legend, written after the author had spent time in England researching his serious non-fiction, is a satirical melange of many styles of popular British upper-class novel of the twenties and thirties, with a narrator somewhat less straightforwardly likeable than Bertie Wooster et al (closer to a Somerset Maugham character written in more polished prose), and it works really rather well.
Although being actively rude about people in a book does involve mentioning them in the first place...)These things are par for the course in a novel of this age though, and most of The Pendragon Legend is great fun.
La historia de una vieja familia inglesa se ve llena de sucesos sobrenaturales, nuestro héroe, un filólogo húngaro, se me involucrado en esta extraña historia. En momentos me pareció que se trataba de una novela juvenil, aunque avanzando algunas páginas me pareció un poco más complicado, aunque siempre fue un libro divertido y sencillo de leer, al final estamos frente a una novela gótica con un misterio detectivesco, pasé un momento muy agradable con este libro.
Neočekivano dobro provedeno vreme uz fantastiku sa detektivskom potkom, zdravom dozom humora i krimi zapletom.Tek na pola knjige sam skontao kada je napisana - po senzibilitetu pre pripada drugoj polovini veka.
In it he is able to indulge in some of his passions as bibliophile, literary omnivore and landscape traveller: his alter ego Bátky gets to research unique manuscripts in the Earl of Gwynedd's library at Llanvygan; he happily jumps from one accomplished parodic passage to another, by turns a comedy of manners, a detective story or a horror tale; and he revels in the geography of North Wales, particularly the ancient Pendragon Castle loosely modelled on the ruined Castell Dinas Brân near Llangollen in modern-day Powys, and its successor Llanvygan Castle perhaps an amalgam of Valle Crucis Abbey and Plas Newydd in the same town.
I haven't ever read anything like this book.
And to be honest one of the reasons I picked it up was because it looked gorgeous.
I mean physically.
Smaller than a "standard" book, a ribbed thick front cover, with a lovely simple illustration on it, decent quality smooth thick paper, clear typeface.
I really did judge this book by it's cover.
Gothic, dry, mystery, romance, intrigue - all these words I use to describe the story!
Things are not as they seem in his posh country manor!I hate talking about the content of stories too much, just read it.
Lo compré devido a la buena critica que hizo el podcast “Todo tranquilo en Dunwich” sino nunca me hubiese fijado en él, pues parece la clásica historia de investigar.Un sorpresón, este libro no puede ser más pulp y entretenido.
Mezcla todo: humor negro, protagonista con carisma que narra en primera persona, casa encantada, monstruos, fantasmas, asesinatos, caminatas por bosques… Un joven de 30 y poco es invitado a un castillo junto a un lago por un Pendragon.
Para que puede investigar en su infinita biblioteca.
Ya en el castillo pasara todo tipo de cosas.
Este chico investigara y enamorara.Lo malo: el machismo del autor.
A delightfully ridiculous country house burlesque of early 20th century occult thrillers.
Szerb was on my vague list of authors to investigate at some point, but a friend's review made clear that this was definitely the first of his books I should read - and just to seal the deal, she then kindly sent me her copy.
I can say little that she hasn't already covered, except to quibble with the Simon Raven comparison she quotes; at their most devious, the characters here still have a childlike charm which even Raven's comparative innocents lack.
Kitabın ilk kısmı ıstırap. Sonu net bir şekilde toparlanmasa kesinlikle puanım 1 olurdu. Neden bilmiyorum kurgu değil de daha farklı bir kitap bekliyordum.
3.75
Eine Geschichte zwischen Kriminalroman und Gruselgeschichte beginnt und der Leser wird erst ganz am Ende herausfinden ob sich nun alles mit Intrigen erklären lässt oder ob vielleicht doch ein Ahnherr des Earls das Geheimnis des ewigen Lebens entdeckt hat.Sprachlich und stilistisch glänzt Antal Szerb ebenso wie die Übersetzerin Susanna Großmann-Vendrey.
Der durch Vorurteile verschleierte Blick des Icherzählers auf die anderen Charaktere, spricht für die Qualität der Erzählung, die sich erlaubt Klischees zu verwenden und dennoch zwischen den Zeilen durchblicken lässt, dass diese Personen komplexer sind als vom Protagonisten gesehen.Das Buch ist eine uneingeschränkte Empfehlung, wenngleich man festhalten muss, dass Szerb am Schluss etwas schwächelt.
The books I have read before written by Hungarian authors were all dark and wallowing in melancholia.
The Pendragon Legend is actually a satire and a Gothic novel: it incorporates plenty of references to the occult and mystical societies that the author was highly interested in, in a murder mystery format that somehow reminds me of the dark Gothic novels by Mary Shelley or Emily Bronte.
I am not a big fan of the occult nor of European mysticism, but I must say that this book was well-researched.
I read this one inspired by Jenni's comments--and I liked it in very much the same way she did.
It's not quite like anything else I've ever read.
As I look over the Goodreads reviews, I see Szerb reminding people of many other authors, depending on whom they've liked--for me he seemed like P.G. Wodehouse, John Dickson Carr, and Umberto Eco. With maybe a little Nabokov.
I laughed, but I think I would have laughed a good deal more if I could have read the original Hungarian.
The Pendragon family has always been involved in the occult and this is what draws János Bátky, a young dilettante scholar who is studying 16th-18th century alchemy and Rosicrucianism.
When Bátky gets an invitation to visit Llanvygan, the seat of the Pendragons, he jumps at the chance and then finds himself entangled in a murder mystery and in occult rituals that almost cost him his life.In fact, the book is a gentle but insightful satire on the mores of the 1920s and l930s, spoofing the British, the Welsh, the Irish, Europeans in general, and especially the British class system.
Kummallinen kirja, mutta kiehtova aihepiiriltään omista tutkimusintresseistäni johtuen. Nautin etenkin kaikista alkemian historiaan liittyvistä viittauksista.Kirja on julkaistu vuonna 1934, ja siinä olikin muutamia aikakaudelle ehkä ominaisia piirteitä. Hätkähdin rasististen ilmausten käytöstä, ja blackfacen käyttö juonielementtinä oli vieraannuttavaa. Päähenkilöllä oli myös äärimmäisen rasittavia käsityksiä naisista: nainen ei voi olla samaan aikaan sekä kaunis että älykäs, ja naisia ei saisi päästää kirjastojen lukuhuoneisiin, koska päähenkilö distraktoituisi. Ahahaahaaa. Niissä kohdissa pyörittelin vain silmiäni. Pohjois-Walesin mystiikkaa käytettiin runsaasti hyväksi - hienoja maisematunnelmia. Juoni sen sijaan ei ollut mitenkään erityisen mukaansatempaava. Luin kirjan kyllä nopeasti, mutta juoni eteni jotenkin omituisilla tavoilla.
I would never intentionally use the word "romp" in a review, but this book calls for it, as several other reviewers have discovered, as well. A gothic-romantic, mysterious, supernatural, thoroughly British romp written by a self-mocking, clever, witty Catholic Hungarian with Jewish ethnicity (atrociously killed in a labor camp in 1945). I enjoyed this as much as Dan Simmons' Drood for the unpredictable adventure-cum-love affairs-cum-psychedelic visions, and to realize Szerb was writing 70 years ahead of Simmons (but certainly himself influenced by Dickens and Collins, 70 years previous), it's exciting to come across such a fresh, but relatively undiscovered, talent.
Amusing and ironic inter-war Hungarian take on occult themes - post-modern well before its time.
Szerb has been re-introduced to London by Pushkin Press and this is recommended as a pleasant amusing read that is a cut above the conspiracy schlock that has appeared in the wake of the Da Vinci Code.
It is sad to note that he died in a labour camp in 1945 and the witty irony of this book shows that a man who could laugh at himself and create a nice anti-hero also died that day
A highly original, hilarious and virtuosic novel about an academic who finds himself caught up in an unlikely sequence of events involving attempted assassinations of an Earl, Rosicrucian lore, biological experiments, ghostly happenings, love affairs and a fortune. If you can imagine a blend of P G Wodehouse, Conan Doyle, Gothic novels and esotericism, you will have some feel for what the novel is like. A hugely enjoyable jeu d'esprit.
Great novel, full of invisible energy, weaving pulpish library researches, shakespearian references and over-the-top gothic comedy in a high-octane narrative always offset by the scholarly aspect of the main character. Deeper than one may think at first. The humor is written in an almost sheepish way which I found quite unique, and the climax demonstrates the full scope of Szerb's talent.
Hugely enjoyable: an intelligent, ironic, playful, wistful, multi-layered Welsh-Gothic literary thriller. If you like Carlos Ruiz Zafon and Scooby Doo, you'll love this almost forgotten 1930s gem from Hungarian writer Antal Szerb.
Tento pribeh ma bavil! Anglicka slachta, tajomny spolok, vrazdy a trochu zahad a mystiky. Tiez rychlovka k popoludnajsiemu caju :).
Izuzetno prijatno iznenađenje, roman čiji mi je senzibilitet veoma prijao. Kombinacija natprirodnog horora, krimića i komedije; izuzetno efektno uklopljeno i uzbudljivo.
I forgot to say, when I finished this, that it's a joy.
A really great book shows us how everything is great and worth to die for
Un altro dei suoi interessi intellettuali, che come vedremo costituisce uno degli assi portanti de La leggenda di Pendragon era costituito dai movimenti e dalle sette segrete che, tra il XVII e il XVIII secolo, costituirono in una certa maniera l’anticipazione dell’illuminismo, coltivando intenti filantropici e utopie palingenetiche accanto a studi occultisti e alchemici: in particolare si occupò delle prime sette massoniche, quale la misteriosa confraternita dei Rosacroce.La biografia di Szerb ci dice che innanzitutto egli fu uno studioso delle letteratura , e si può forse affermare che i pochi romanzi e racconti che scrisse rappresentassero per lui solamente un modo per divulgare al di fuori delle cerchie specialistiche le sue vaste conoscenze letterarie.Questo intento appare appieno, a mio modo di vedere, proprio in questo suo romanzo d’esordio.
Despite having been written by an expatriate Hungarian, this is purely a piece if British (in this case Welsh) nonsense.
I understand that Szerb had his tongue planted firmly in his cheek, but spinning that brand of sheer silliness that is unique to the English is a tricky business.
Conjuring up silly-ass characters may appear to be a simple enough trick but in fact it's very rarely been done successfully.
Horsemen of the Apocalypse riding the Welsh hills?
Sorry, Mr. Szerb I see that many readers have gotten a kick out of it but for me it all comes off as so much drivel, mildly amusing at times but ultimately a waste of time.
A wonderful book, heading for 5 stars because of its epigrammatic narrator ('I left him to his envy.
A colleague's envy, when all is said and done, is the scholar's one reward on earth'), the pleasure the author takes in undermining him, the combination of admiration and scorn for the English Establishment - shades of Michael Innes - and the self-conscious sketches of the vamp and the maiden.
The material about the occult starts as a pleasing flavour, but in the end it overwhelms the rest of the book - even the intriguing multiple-stranded ending.
Though I'm not convinced by the translator's claims that there is a deeper book underneath it, I'd invest a bit more time t0 see why he thinks so.
Literatuurwetenschapper Antal Szerb etaleert zijn kennis van middeleeuwse obscure manuscripten, lardeert daarmee een whodunit en blijft gedurende het hele verhaal een beschouwende, burgerlijke Hongaar uit het begin van de 20e eeuw.
Dat levert een verhaal op wat alle kanten op gaat – rozenkruisers, maar ook snelle auto’s, geklaag over het Britse eten en gedweep met hun manieren, you name it.
Het gedoe met de Middeleeuwse legenden over de steen der wijzen is bovendien zo afstandelijk opgeschreven dat het ironisch en licht spottend aandoet, wat ook prettig lezen is (hoewel dat vast niet bedoeling van Szerb is geweest).
Obscure literary trivia: posing as an unjustly-neglected Hungarian polymath, P.G. Wodehouse & Agatha Christie united in 1934 to write a book that trolls The Da Vinci Code. That's my theory, at least.At least 50 pages too long, but it's riddled with bits of loopy brilliance.
