https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52101.Strength_to_Love
I personally have always wanted to pick up a book by MLK Jr. because I have never been satisfied with the info that black history television programs and school classes gave me.
Television programs would tell me of things such as the bus boycott, and MLK's marches, but I wanted to know more than just what he did.
The insight that I gained about this man's way of thinking is incredible.
If you are one of those people who have only HEARD of MLK then you need to get this book, because there's a lot more you can learn about him than what you've heard.
I don't know and I don't care."I care, God knows I care, but God only knows how I'm supposed to teach eighth graders how to care.So I took King's words,Injustice ANYWHERE is a threat to Justice EVERYWHEREand I paired them with James Madison's words-We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America.[Disunity] ANYWHERE is a threat to [Unity] EVERYWHERE[Turmoil] ANYWHERE is a threat to [Tranquility] EVERYWHERE[Insecurity] ANYWHERE is a threat to [Security] EVERYWHEREOr would that have sounded better with [Offense] ANYWHERE is a threat to [Defense] EVERYWHERE?[Suffering] ANYWHERE is a threat to [the General Welfare] EVERYWHERE!Now THERE'S one that probably makes "rugged individualists" absolutely cringe, but AREN'T I my brother's keeper?And of course,[Tyranny] ANYWHERE is a threat to [Liberty] EVERYWHERESo isn't it true?Don't you CARE?Don't you realize?
I read this book in Africa, it was life changing. Martin Luther King, Jr. was not only an amazing leader for the African American community's fight for social justice, he also offers so much wisdom for all of us with words of guidance in love, faith, hope, and strength. He challenged me to become a thinking Christian, not just a following one.
I feel challenged to identify what the most powerful part of this book is.
Every page seems to bear the best of the book's message.
Of special interest to me is Dr. King's explanation of the formative role of Gandhi's satyagraha movement on Dr. King and the civil rights and freedom movement.
Dr. King also discusses the influence of Gandhi and the _satyagraha_ movement on his thinking and on the subsequent unfolding of the civil rights movement and Dr. King's later decision to take a stand against the war in Vietnam.
"I can never be what I ought to be until you are what you ought to be, and you can never be what you ought to be until I am what I ought to be.""Forgiveness is not an occasional act; it is a permanent attitude.""Morality cannot be legislated, but behavior can be regulated."
(Despite not being a direct quote from King, it certainly expressed a sentiment consistent with his philosophy, and was more or less a paraphrase of a passage in this book.)Before reading StL, I was of course familiar with King in a cultural sense and had read a couple of his writings such as "Letter from Birmingham Jail," but none of his more intellectual or religious work.
One intellectual concept that particularly stuck with me, which King actually attributes to someone else (Harry Emerson Fosdick, for those of you keeping score at home), is the distinction between enforceable and unenforceable obligations, which he discusses in the context of the story of the Good Samaritan.
Most importantly, the book shows King's thought, both on religious matters and on social activism.
In common with many religiously-oriented thinkers, King views human life as a combination of the "eternal and the temporal".
His understanding of the eternal played a great role in his temporal actions fighting injustice during his life.King explores the nature of love, the interrelationship of all things, and the search for moral and ontological absolutes -- the existence of God -- rather than relativism.
"Admitting the weighty problems and staggering disappointments, Christianity affirms that God is able to give us the power to meet them.
He is able to give us the inner equilibrium to stand tall amid the trials and burdens of life.
He is able to provide an inner peace amid outer storms.
It still spoke to me this time, in a powerful and profound way.
A collection of Martin Luther King Jr.'s sermons, this book was amazing on many different levels.
Additionally, the sermons were very heartening, thought provoking and spiritually uplifting, even though my time and situation are different.
Two words: Read It.Whether an agnostic, devout protestant, curious catholic or even aethist... this is the quintiessential compilation of sermons and speeches by the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. Read and discover why we celebrate this man. A visionary beyond words, yet it is through words that we understand the greatest realms of his imagination.Im still an agnostic, but after reading I feel like ive finally discovered the power of "the word" and gained respect for a man of his time but who was outside of it.
One must read this book to understand that Martin Luther King Jr. is more than the historical figure who fought and won against racial injustice and whose tragic end marked an important page in history.
Just as strength to love is more and beyond the mundane romantic understanding our society generally tends to invests in the word "love".Unexpected, impressive, inspirational and a valuable lesson about life, virtues, attitude and meaning.
And it all sums up to love.This book feels like the essence of the man and figure Martin Luther King Jr.Thus I very much look forward to reading his other writings.
15 of MLK's sermons that were tweaked and compiled into a book. Many are great. The last one, explaining how his ideas about non-violence developed, is excellent, and well worth the price of the book.
The sermons reveal how King’s faith was carried forward into social action.
Faith, hope, courage, love and suffering are also required.
The one thing I objected to was his dismissal of humanism as too optimistic and not realistic about sin and evil; and the need for one’s faith/hope/love/courage/suffering to be justified by Jesus.
It showed the roots of Dr. King’s ideas, explained his religious faith, and outlined his philosophy of nonviolence.
And some of the lines could have been written this week:“Few people have the toughness of mind to judge critically and to discern the true from the false, the fact from the fiction.
Simply put, Dr. King wouldn’t be Dr. King without his faith in God. In an essay entitled “Pilgrimage to Nonviolence” discussing the Civil Rights Movement’s Non-Violent approach, Dr. King said: “Christ furnished the spirit and motivation and Gandhi furnished the method.”In his sermon titled “God Is Able,” Dr. King describes how after receiving threats for weeks, he began to realize that the threats were in “earnest.” One night, he answered his phone and an angry person said: “‘Listen, n*gger, we’ve taken all we want from you.
First, we must develop and maintain the capacity to forgive." "Returning hate for hate only multiplies hate." "There will be no permanent solution to the race problem until oppressed men develop the capacity to love their enemies." "Jesus is not an impractical idealist: he is the practical realist." King had a willingness to wear his oppressors down with love, not only to win a personal or collective victory, but to win them over in the process.
As he says, the church must be actively involved, individually and collectively letting God change us, and also acting to promote justice.
This is a collection of 15 of Dr. King's sermons, which were originally published in 1963.
I swear, almost all of them could have been written today, and they would still be just as relevant, just as applicable.
Here was an amazing man with an amazing point of view, who was passionate about justice and loving towards others, and who didn't need to scream the loudest in order to make a difference.
Brilliant work.
I had never heard any of his sermons or speeches before, besides the "I Have a Dream" speech, so it was an honor to be able to experience more of his work.
This has to be one of my all-time favorite books.
What a stalwart saint MLK Jr was, and I pick this book up again and again to be reminded what it means to love my enemy, persevere in trial, and be courageous in having a tough mind and soft heart.
He has taught me to be a better Christian and laid out the sharp keenness of his mind and theology and how it encompassed his worldview, how it should shape & challenge ours, and ask us to critique whose Kingdom and whose cause we are living for.
I'm grateful and so humbled.
Originally copyrighted in 1963, the content of this book still applies significantly to our lives today.
Many people knew little about King's speaking beyond the few video clips you hear over and over--"I Have a Dream" and "I've been to the Mountaintop." These are sermons he preached in the late 1950's and early 1960's.
5: "A nation…that continues to produce soft-minded men purchases its own spiritual death on an installment plan." (Read: Let's cut funding for education more so that even more dumb people will swallow fake news and alternative facts.) p.
We need (the voice and spirit of) King now more than ever: "In spite of the fact that the law of revenge solves no social problems, men continue to follow its disastrous leading.
Although King wrote and preached at the height of the the movement for desegregation and its violent aftermath, what struck me is just how little minds have changed, despite the "passing away" of "old systems of exploitation and oppression" that King references in the collection's final sermon (163).
Indeed, the U.S. Attorney General is a living relic of the violent resistance to desegregation, and the recent gutting of the Voting Rights Act has opened the way for greater exploitation.
King also wrote at a time of great scientific change, just as we do now.
Here are my favorite sermons and quotes.
Sermons"A tough mind and a tender heart""Transformed nonconformist""A knock at midnight""How should a Christian view communism?""Pilgrimage to nonviolence" Quotes"We preach comforting sermons and avoid saying anything from our pulpit that might disturb the respectable views of the comfortable members of our congregations" p16"For the modern man, absolute right and absolute wrong are a matter of what the majority is doing.
There might be something damning to their belief system or point right before or after the line they choose to quote.In this collection, Dr. King the preacher and prophet calls out for Christian engagement with a troubled world.
Given room to develop in these sermons, his words helped lead me to clearer understanding of the role of the Church in politics, the shape that white supremacy takes, the traps set for Christians working toward justice, and the particular shape that sin takes in America.Sermons are brief, so reading this collection brought me into the company of great ideas, but it didn't develop them or show their source fully.
Too often Martin Luther King is treated as if he were simply a producer of random inspirational quotes with no context. In contrast, this short book gives a selection of his sermons and short writings that reveal both the depth of his ideas and their rootedness in concrete historical struggles. They also show how politics and theology cannot be separated when it comes to the ideas and life of Martin Luther King. If you've not read King before (and especially if you're coming from a Christian perspective), this is a good place to start.
This excellent book should get more attention. It wasn't even offered for sale at the gift shop at the King historic site in Atlanta! Five stars doesn't mean I always agree with him. But there are some chapters and passages that are worth all the attention I can give them. Everyone--*everyone*--should read the chapter "Loving Your Enemies."
I will read this book again and again for the rest of my life.
Excellent. Highly recommended to those who love to appropriate MLK for their own purposes.
Reading King’s words about his time in preparatory study reminds me of the journey we all take in faith, in philosophy, and in life.
Underneath his intellectual journey and his public leadership in the civil rights movement was a foundation in Christian faith.In Appreciation of the ManOf course, Martin Luther King’s influence reaches far beyond Christian circles.
MLK openly announces the influence of Gandhi on his positions—a position clearly outside of orthodox Christianity but nonetheless an influence on King’s beliefs.But, reading King talk about faith in Jesus and the importance of the church in tender words all while admitting his intellectual journey gives me courage.If you are a fan of Martin Luther King or are interested in hearing his positions from his voice, Strength to Love is a mandatory read.Originally published at http://www.wherepenmeetspaper.com
However, what really stand out to me are Dr. King’s strong admonitions to the Christian church regarding its failure to stand up for the marginalized and oppressed.
As a human institution striving to represent the love of Jesus Christ, the Christian church will never be perfect, but that is no excuse for turning a blind eye to—much less sanctioning—injustices done to groups marginalized by race, class, gender identity, sexual orientation, nationality, immigration status, or faith.
The Christian church needs to do better.Despite all the shortcomings of the Christian church and of humanity, however, Dr. King still had optimism for the future, because he believed in a God who “is able to conquer the evils of history.
Strength to Love by Martin Luther King, Jr. 158 pagesThere was more to Martin Luther King, Jr. than as the leading representative of the early 1960s Civil Rights Movement.
And here we have a collection of his sermons, some written while he was jailed.This is the third of the five books King collected/wrote before his tragic assassination in 1968.
It’s also one of his most requested works.Theses short and meditative sermons, crafted during the heyday of the Civil Rights Movement, are predominately about racial segregation in America.
And not only in St. Louis, but around the country, blacks and whites are segregated via their neighborhoods.
Martin Luther King Jr. is much deeper a man than people give him credit for.
Martin Luther King as a theologian and minister is not as spoken about in the public square, it was his belief in Jesus Christ and the transformation of the Gospel that lead him to be an world renown social activist.
But I believe the world wants to over look that, and focus primarily on his work as a social activist and not his words as minister.
This book is an excellent working of Dr. King's beliefs and what drive him through times of darkness and suffering.
I've read many apologetic writings and though this is not labeled as such, I'd definitely say that it is certainly a work of Christian apologetics in many senses.
King addresses both the intellect and the spirit, and he never loses the focus of righteousness: he's a voice telling you constantly to seek God first and love your neighbour as Jesus called us to, with total compromise and passion.
There are a few statements with which I disagree, (this is why I rate it with 4 stars), but about 90-95% of the book is absolutely amazing.
King was a erudite and a servant of the Most High God.
