https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2069.Consciousness_Explained
When Dennett's angle of approach leads him to self-contradiction, or else to smuggle in ever subtler computational and mechanomorphic anthropomorphisms in order to fill the explanatory gaps that are (inevitably) left over, we can discern the areas in which his eliminative materialist starting point fails us and where we need to pay the phenomenology of lived experience its dues.
According to his multiple-drafts theory of consciousness, the sense of our being grounded in a unitary center of subjectivity at any given time – that feeling that underlies all experience, that we can give words to and call “I here, now” - is a mere abstraction edited out of a confluence of “parallel, multitrack processes of interpretation and elaboration” that are inaccessible to introspection.
I got a couple of chapters into it, and found the author was telling me that "we are all novelists", and that a large part of consciousness was going to be explained in terms of the ongoing narrative we spin in our interior monologues.
None the less, if Dennett had fully delivered on his promise to explain how the interior monologue part worked, and how it related to consciousness, I would in no way have felt cheated.
Is it possible? Is this going to finally be the book that explains the mystery of consciousness?No. No it is not.What would it even mean to explain consciousness? Reminds me of Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy where they build this ultra powerful supercomputer to finally answer the mystery of "life, the universe and everything," only to then realize that they don't actually know what the question means.
I love love love this book so much that I am hoping that when I die, the crime scene investigators w
Yes, the subject is extremely complex and really smart people fight about it in prestigious journals, etc.But Dennett has some fine ideas nonetheless.
I go through periods of swinging in one direction and back again when it comes to what I'll just call the "consciousness wars." But lately Dennett's ideas are striking me as more and more correct (and I've always leaned in his and the Churchland's direction since I first began looking into these issues, maybe about two years ago).
What is the Mind-Body Problem?2.
Can Brain Explain Mind?3.
Why is Consciousness So Mysterious?4.
Dennett takes hundreds of pages to refute the idea of consciousness as a sentient observer sitting inside man's brain (a concept known as "the Cartesian Theatre").
I could have agreed about that being untrue in half a page.
When Dennett has finally finished explaining what consciousness is not, he disappointingly admits that he does not have a good alternative either.
But that theory is hardly more impressive then the Cartesian Theatre that the rest of the book wanted to prove wrong.
"Consciousness Explained" is an academical book that is totally useless, since it doesn't deliver any of the promises contained in the title.
I must say, The reason I'm giving such a low score is because I expected much much more from this book. Instead I faced with explanations of phenomena that could have been explained much clearer. And the lack of answer to my question being: How neurons give rise to consciousness. (To be perfectly clear, I do not mean how the mind works or how mind and brain are related. Rather, what gives rise to a cultivated sense, a feeling, a qualia.) And I expected a physical theory, instead, he apparently skipped the whole problem altogether.
Dennett may not be correct in his several models of how consciousness works, which he labels with colorful names, such as "multiple drafts" and "pandemonium," but he is honest enough to admit that they are just models.
And in any event, I was completely convinced that the intuitive ideas that most of us have about how the mind works, which Dennett labels as the Cartesian Theater, are completely wrong.
And it takes very careful thinking to avoid falling back into that intuitive trap again and again in new and different ways.
I avoided reading Dennett for years, but that was a mistake.
I only read it recently, and perhaps it is a bit outdated for a book about the ever-changing fields of cognitive theory, neuroscience, and psychology, but, if anything, this book does a really good job of refuting the farcical traditional theories of consciousness (goodbye Dualism, Cartesian Theater, Ghost in the Machine) and presents a workable alternative theory: the Multiple Drafts Model.
I won't attempt to explain this model here in just a few short sentences; you'll have to read it for yourself.
Faced with a philosophical problem, Dennett hopes that a mass of empirical research can resolve the issue, but if we don't know our way around our concepts, then trying to apply the concepts in all sorts of unusual situations is only likely to make matters worse.
So perhaps Dennett has produced an interesting theory of the brain, but he is certainly deeply confused about consciousness and all the related issues he mentions (such as the nature of the self).
He may be a good purveyor of scientific research, but he has little to contribute on philosophical or conceptual issues where he seems to lack both aptitude and interest.
Despite its age, this book is a stellar introduction to anyone trying to approach consciousness.Dennett's thought experiments and suggested activities for readers shed light on some fascinating phenomena of consciousness, including sensory dislocation & extension of self to tools and blind spots & the overly assuming nature of vision.
Dennett makes the important point that this absence of representation (ignorance) is not the same as the representation of absence ("filling in").The three themes of Dennett's that resonated most with me were the relationship between time & consciousness, information sharing and information barriers in the brain, and consciousness as cultural software.1) Noticing the varying speeds of sensory signal propagation outside of the body (light vs.
After having listened to this book, I will never fall for the make-believe just so stories about consciousness again.
For those who need make-believe and should be sitting at the children's table instead of the adult's table they need to read this book and they can move ahead as I have because of this book.The best way to think about our self is by realizing we are not an analytical point.
I'm just trying to whet your appetite in order for you to listen to this book.)The author steps me through the black box of the mind by first discussing the outputs we measure from our responses to the environment.
Not being satisfied to treat consciousness as something ontologically and fundamentally "special", he dismisses some misguided notions of the workings of consciousness which makes it seem as though there has to be some sort of "center or awareness" in which it all comes together along with the related notion of conscious experience as something which has further unexplainable phenomena, qualia, as its building blocks.
Is it really that difficult to imagine multiple processes happening in the brain at once and none having central authority in much the same way a computer time shares processing speed?I think one issue Dennett has is that he has made the assumption that perception is consciousness; which I doubt to be true.
All that said, I did like the idea of parallel pandemoniums and that your brain is coming up with multiple streams of responses at once and the best fit is selected; perhaps I’m more aware of my brain working like this and so explains why I find it difficult at times to say the right thing as I’m somehow thinking of several at once.
Contents:(view spoiler)[Dennett DC (1991) (21:39) Consciousness ExplainedPreface01.
PreviewPart I: Problems and Methods02.
Pandora's Box: Should Consciousness Be Demystified?02.2.
A Method for Phenomenology04.1.
The Method of Heterophenomenology04.4.
Multiple Drafts Versus the Cartesian Theater05.1.
The Theater of Consciousness Revisited05.5.
Time and Experience06.1.
How the Brain Represents Time06.3.
The Evolution of Consciousness07.1.
Inside the Black Box of Consciousness07.2.
Scene Two: New and Better Ways of Producing Future07.3.
The Memes of Consciousness: The Virtual Machine to Be Installed08.
The Architecture of the Human Mind09.1.
Rotating Images in the Mind's Eye10.2.
Consciousness Imagined14.1.
Consciousness Explained, or Explained Away?Appendix A (for Philosophers)Appendix B (for Scientists)BibliographyIndex (hide spoiler)]
Kant, in the Critique of Pure Reason, denotes apagogic (indirect) reasoning as being unable to lead to any sort of truth because it breaks Aristotle's Law of Non-Contradiction; yet Dennett seems to think that he can posit the subject as knowing and not knowing at the same time (as if he were an Hegelian!), while giving examples of what consciousness isn't in an attempt to arrive at what it is.
Just as it sets out to do, this book defines the question and along the way discards those questions which still compel so many among us to defer our very responsibility because it is so pleasurable to imagine more perfect unions.If, in other words, there were to come about some critical mass of readers who have mastered this work, we could finally begin engagement in those discourses which might wrest humanity from the degeneration which is attendant upon inhabitation by those memes in whose thrall our brains now labor.And in that sense, this must be the most important book I, for one, have ever read.
I was trying out a new reading methodology for Consciousness Explained, reading the critiques of articles entered in journals alongside the actual text, which allowed me to see both the illegitimacy of some of the criticisms and the serious problems with some of the text.
I strongly recommend the critiques by Ned Block (Journal of Philosophy, 1993) and Colin McGinn (Philosophical Perspectives, 1995), which point out that Dennett actually doesn't construct a theory of consciousness.The most powerful part of the text, which has largely been accepted and adopted even by many of Dennett's dissenters, is the discussion of the Cartesian Theater.That said, the rest of the text is kind of hard to read, since it seems fairly weak.
He then shows how there is no need for, or evidence for, a Cartesian Theatre.
Orwellian cognitive theory says that the subject of a false time perception perceives the stimulus correctly, but constructs the memory of it incorrectly.
Stalinesque cognitive theory says that your brain has a time-delay (like a tape delay in live TV shows) in what you are conscious of.
So your memory is correct, but the original consciousness was mistaken (like Stalin’s show trials).He shows that these cannot in fact be distinguished.
He proposes instead a Multiple Drafts hypothesis, that the brain is constantly making up new theories and discarding old ones.
I would have to set this book down and do some research to just get a baseline to follow his explanations.For any of my Goodreads friends that want to really explore the big "I", and delve into the what of our conscious selves, I couldn't recommend this more.
But the recommendation comes with a warning: if you give the book its due, don't skim passages / sections and really work yourself to understand what Dennett is trying to say, you could come away from this book with a changed view on yourself, your fellow humans and this wonderful, crazy brain of ours.
I can see why he's a public figure-- he's downright chatty and personable for a chilly analytic philosopher, and at the same time clear and rigorous in his presentation of ideas.As for the ideas themselves...
OK, the multiple-drafts notion of consciousness is something I can certainly get behind, and his attack on the "Cartesian theater" notion, while it seems obvious, is something that really needs to be done every once in a while to clean philosophical house.But as to how we arrive at that multiple-drafts state, he relies on an excessively inductive understanding of evolution and the brain-as-computer metaphor that seems to cripple cognitive research.
“Ufuk açıcı yeni fikirlerle dolu…“— Richard Dawkins“Bilinç hakkında gündelik düşünceleri yıkarken, Dennett meseleye radikal bir bakış açısı getiriyor. Bilinç Açıklanıyor’un uzun yıllar boyunca okunacağına inanıyorum.”— Douglas R. Hofstadter“Çok başarılı bir bilimsel yaklaşım. İnsanlar, hayvanlar ve makinelerle ilgili olağanüstü bilgiler içeriyor.”— Thomas Nagel“Bilinç üzerine harika bir meditasyon.”— Howard Gardner“Dennett’in açıklaması, tek kelimeyle dahiyane, hem profesyonel hem de genel okuyu
“Ufuk açıcı yeni fikirlerle dolu…“—	Richard Dawkins“Bilinç hakkında gündelik düşünceleri yıkarken, Dennett meseleye radikal bir bakış açısı getiriyor. Bilinç Açıklanıyor’un uzun yıllar boyunca okunacağına inanıyorum.”— Douglas R. Hofstadter“Çok başarılı bir bilimsel yaklaşım. İnsanlar, hayvanlar ve makinelerle ilgili olağanüstü bilgiler içeriyor.”—	Thomas Nagel“Bilinç üzerine harika bir meditasyon.”—	Howard Gardner“Dennett’in açıklaması, tek kelimeyle dahiyane, hem profesyonel hem de genel okuyucuyu hedefleyen bir bilim kitabı, gördüklerim arasında en iyi örnek.“—	George Johnson, New York Times
Dennett tackles the consciousness question from a common-sense/philosopical point of view, if such a thing is possible. It's an intriguing, if not entirely convincing theory. It feels like a good attempt to figure something out that won't be figured out for another twenty years.
Even if a mind is nothing but all the brain material, and relationships between billions of neurons and their continuously changing status because of the interactions with everything in the environment apart from the existing and previous states, no scientific or quantitative explanation of these can completely explain everything going on internally.
And the tools that could be used are also quite different from the serial/parallel processing analogies and baud rate examples used in the book.Consciousness, and self as a singular entity, have other utilities.
This book is pretty dense and heavy on the philosophy, for someone who hasn’t read much philosophy. But it’s well worth the read. Dennett covers everything from evolutionary biology to linguistics to computer architecture in a comprehensive attempt to break down the notion that consciousness is ephemeral and hence impossible to understand. He tries to accomplish this by attacking the common notion of how the conscious mind works and replacing his with an idea of his own. Unfortunately I know very little of the field to be able to judge for myself.
I can't remember that last time I outright disliked a book, but Consciousness Explained was a struggle to get through.
Dennett presents four ideas that each take turns being a major point of argument:1.
The idea that there is no 'central meaner' in the brain is now a cornerstone of cognitive neuroscience, and one of the most laudable aspects of this book is that Dennett argued forcibly for this view over 20 years ago.
The issue is ultimately that Dennett doesn't believe in subjective experience, so his theory of consciousness ultimately devolves into a more general theory of 'how the brain works'.3.
Imagine if a bat was raised in an unbatty room, never watched zombie movies, and only ate black and white Chinese take-out food.
Now imagine if the bat only seemed to be a bat, and the zombie movies that it didn’t watch were of zombies acting like humans would act if they were acting like zombies acting like humans.
How could we say, or at least acknowledge precognitively to appear to say, that the qualia of the unbattiness of the room coadaptively represented the epiphenomenological non-Chineseness of all anti-food experiences?
But there is no one place in the brain through which all these causal trains must pass in order to deposit their content 'in consciousness.'""You have probably experienced the phenomenon of driving for miles while engrossed in conversation (or in silent soliloquy) and then discovering that you have utterly no memory of the road, the traffic, your car-driving activities.
The 'unconscious driving' phenomenon is better seen as a case of rolling consciousness with swift memory loss.""Do you like beer?
A reader's enjoyment of Consciousness Explained will depend to a large degree on his or her existing perspective on these subjects, as well as prior exposure to the ideas presented in this book.
This in itself is compelling enough, and I largely agree with the broad strokes of the argument, but the literary metaphor points to what I find so unsatisfying about philosophy in general.
The end product is an interesting and defensible general philosophy, but to what extent can it be said to have explanatory power, as would a scientific model?
Nevertheless, of the books on consciousness by philosophers that I have read recently, this one comes closest to making me think that the "hard problem" has now been reduced to a series of engineering problems.The author almost lost me in the opening passages.
Drawing on evidence from information technology, evolutionary biology, neurology and philosophy, Dennett shows that consciousness is not an all-or-nothing proposition; that consciousness is not a unitary phenomenon, continuum or plenum; that its illusion of continuousness is just that; that it cannot be a philosopher's epiphenomenon; that qualia are not the hurdle philosophers like to think and may not even exist as they think, being instead merely the associations that accompany commonalities in experience; that robots almost certainly can and soon will dream of electric sheep; that consciousness most certainly does supervene on physical brain states; and that, ultimately, "you" as such don't really exist.
