https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33620305-rogues-holiday
The Inspector, ostensibly on a mandatory vacation, follows a suspect to a busy seaside resort during the height of tourist season and is promptly immersed in an even bigger (yet connected) mystery involving a young invalid woman, several different factions working a confidence game, questionable people who are not who they appear to be, and even more deaths.
Rogue's Holiday was written by Margery Allingham under a pseudonym to be serialised as a potboiler because she needed the income before her Campion novels began to make sufficient money.
It's a clunky, hackneyed book which I got very fed up with.The story is of David Blest, a brilliant, handsome young Scotland Yard inspector who, unhappy with the investigation of a death in a Gentleman's Club, takes a couple of weeks' leave on the south coast at the hotel where the man he suspects is staying.
A frankly, silly plot develops: Blest takes less than a day to fall hopelessly in love with a young woman at the hotel, who is not All She Seems.
Maxwell Marsh is the pseudonym of Margery Allingham one of the queens of crime from the 20s to the 60s.
This novel certainly has the enjoyment factor which many classical crimes give through their connection with the past and how authors & publishers perceived the needs & norms of their readers.
However, as an avid classical crime reader, there are flaws in the storyline which may distract the readers enjoyment of this novel.
Over all the book is an enjoyable read but is not one of Margery Allingham's best works as it contains two major flaws.
I only reflect what I felt about the story because that's what must entail in reviews.First of all, I love to read crime novels and that's the reason I chose this book.
The story started our quite well and it had its great moments due to chapters ending with a cliffhanger, sometimes.
The thrill of learning what will further happen was not present in me.
There were times where I had to read a particular situation twice/thrice to understand the flow of the story or as to who is doing what.
The flow, overall was great and in detail.
A good demonstration of what a decent writer can do with an unlikely plot, a whiff of romance and derring-do. There is precious little detection, a number of colourful villains, a naive and fairly dim heroine, a besotted and indecisive hero, remote houses, respectable hotels, a mad, evil guardian. As melodrama I would probably give it 5 stars. As crime fiction I’m less generous. I’m interested enough in the genre, and Margery Allingham, to read more Maxwell March.
What a mystery!Scotland Yard Inspector on holiday after an unexpected & unsolved murder at the club- Meets lovely Judy who is not what she seems. Murder, mystery, chases, close calls & harrowing escapades - couldn't wait to finish reading.
Interesting tale but never quite felt attached.
Ok read, but nowhere near as good as Agatha Christie or Naigo Marsh.
Excellent little British mystery! Wonderful characters and quite a complex plot that takes you right along!
Rather a sweet mystery romance. Nothing to keep you guessing, though. I will probably read more of her work but not completely enthralled.
This was my first Maxwell March and though I quite enjoyed it, it took me a while to get into and didn't like this as much as I like Allingham's Albert Campion mysteries. This is a thriller, but there are some similarities in plotting as well as in writing style. Fun, but I'm not sure I would come back for more. My copy came from the publisher/Allingham estate in return for an honest review.
This book is proof that Margery Allingham could do very well indeed without the Allingham name and her most famous character, Albert Campion.Early on, we meet David Blest, a handsome young Scotland Yard Inspector coping with the unexpected death of Eric Ingleton-Gray, a 27-7ear-old man of good family, in the august Senior Bluffs Club, St. James.
Then, David chances to meet a charming young lady who piques his interest because of her apparent ill health.From there, the plot thickens nicely; there is another suspicious death, villains of various stripes abound.
Very soon there is a list of characters from Major Deane, Saxon Marsh, Lionel Birch and Marguerite Ferney that are all very interested in Judy, but why?
A second murder occurs involving another man destined to wed Judy.
Bloomer (a former policeman, now a hotel detective) at first appears over eager and sure to cause our hero (David ) trouble but in fact turns out to be very astute and helpful.
Similarly with the police inspector, Winn, who investigates the Majors murder.
He appears at first to be gullible but again proves astute and with different clues to David manages to catch the Majors killer.
Basically, not so much a murder mystery as an adventure story.Written by Margery Allingham, I personally like it more than the Albert Campion series. Perhaps a bit old fashioned but nevertheless a wonderful read.
Margery Allingham, famous for Albert Campion, also wrote serialized stories for Magazines under the name - Maxwell March.
I turned pages so fast,that I was through with the book, about the same time I am halfway through others.The Characters include an intelligent Inspector, a sickly, young Woman who holds the key to a mystery and a dying, Con Man. Margery Allingham is a great, master builder of the eccentric- particularly in people.
But what may be the cream of her writing is that she has preserved a certain way of life in England where the "whodunit" lives forever...like Agatha Christie, Allingham needs to be read and savored for the charm her books have.
I had no idea Marjorie Allingham had written anything under a pseudonym so I was delighted to find Maxwell March. I have read all of her other novels - most of them more than once - and wanted more. These are rather different but still fun to read. There's lots of action and enough bad guys to keep the reader guessing. Allingham was a master of the genre.
