https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/911868.Arundel
It was our May Book Club selection and I was pretty lukewarm about it as a choice,but...it turned into one of those gems I never would have read on my own.
The genre is historical fiction.Basically it tells the story of a young man in love going to get back his girl who has been kidnapped.
So it's researched day-to day life in them thar woods around 1775 and historical reporting of some early revolutionary war patriots.
If you love to know what it was like to live in other times and if you're fantasies include a rough and rugged Daniel Boone type guy,then read this book.
Arundel is one of the finest books I have ever read.
The characters come alive in such a manner that rereading the tale has been a yearly pleasure for me.
The time period covered in "Arundel" is unique, our country before it was a country, only colonies and some men with ideas.
The cast of characters is a mix of fictional and real, Benedict Arnold, Aaron Burr and others created in sync with the time and place.
In "Arundel" you get a glimpse of just maybe who he really was.
This is probably the best work of historical fiction I have ever read.
It is the story of Benedict Arnold's March to Quebec (when Arnold was still a good guy), as seen through the eyes of a teenage boy who comes along.
It blows the Harry Potter books away, and I say that as one who absolutely loved the Potter series.
Arundel is full of adventure, great characters, unforgettable scenery, romance, humor, just about everything you could hope for in a book.
I started reading this last night to my 7 year old when he couldn't fall asleep.
Looking forward enjoying this adventure again.
It's been a LONG time since I read any Kenneth Roberts, a writer very popular among my parents generation.
The narrator does point out that the French and Indian War was still dragging on and that nasty northern Indians and their French instigators were still a problem, even on the southern Maine coast.
Readers nowadays may grow impatient with the story as the author takes his time to paint a pretty detailed picture.
I assume that's not a part of this book, except for being mentioned a few times.
This was my first venture into the writing of Pulitzer Prize winning (1957) Roberts but definitely will not be my last. This masterfully written account of Benedict Arnold's doomed 1775 march to Quebec has all of the hallmarks of fine historical fiction - impeccable research, a fascinating human story, wonderful period detail, and, in this case, there's humor, too. What Arnold's forces endured during their journey through Maine is a story of steely determination and bravery in the face of unimaginable hardships and it's one that should not be forgotten.
The narrator and central character is one Steven Nason of Arundel (modern Kennebunkport) in the province of Maine, who, against his natural inclinations, is writing a book describing his role in Benedict Arnold's 1775 expedition to Quebec.
In his own words:Above all, because of the lamentable occurrences at West Point, the countryside is filled with men of mighty hindsight who speak with scorn of Colonel Arnold, whose boots they were not fit to clean, and belittle or ignore the expedition to Quebec.What follows is a stirring tale of adventure, courage, passion, and humor, filled with surprises of all kinds.For reasons that in time are revealed, Nason starts the story in his own boyhood, describing the circumstances that brought his father, a blacksmith, to settle on the bank of the Arundel River, and describing his family's way of life there.
It is not quite one story but a series of connected ones, episodes in the narrator’s life in colonial New England (primarily Maine), through both the French and Indian and the Revolutionary Wars.An interesting enough read most of the time, despite the occasional tedious stretches that could be well have been condensed with no loss to the story (but important, I suppose, to thorough historical accuracy).
Recommended more to those interested in the history of the period and willing to deal with a not-particularly-focused plot, than to the reader seeking a fast-paced adventure.
(Oh, for the good ol' days of the seven deadly sins driving antagonistic human behavior without any hint of brain-chemistry induced psycho/socio pathology a la a recently read novel by Dean Koontz.) The story revolves around Benedict Arnold's torturous expedition with a rabble of an ill-equipped army through the Maine wilderness to assault and take Quebec in 1775.
Through the voice of Stephen Nason, a young settler in coastal Maine, Kenneth Roberts depicts his characters with compassion, respect, love, and humor.
Roberts researched details using many local (Maine) sources which are referenced at the back of the book.
I don't recall what I bought, but my friend found a copy of a book and purchased it.
He and I are both fans of George MacDonald Fraser's Flashman books, which are in the same genre.It wasn't much later that I got my first Kindle and got hooked on reading digital books.
Just on that alone, I can't imagine this book hasn't been scooped up to make a teen angst movie (and no, it doesn't read that way, I can just see how easily it could be played that way).Highly recommended!
It is.It's narrated by Steven Nason, who is from Arundel, Maine (now Kennebunkport), who leaves his home to become a guide/soldier in the Continental Army under Benedict Arnold as Arnold is charged by George Washington to take Quebec from the British.It's not so much written as a page-turner but the book just moves along, just pulling you with it so you discover you've read 100 or so pages without even knowing the time has passed.
One of my favorites is when the young Steven and his father meet Arnold, before the war, and swap animal pelts for a short passage on Arnold's boat.
This 1929 historical fiction novel about the American Revolution has not been made into a movie yet and I do not know why.
It's a dense, academic read, but if you can read slowly and carefully, you'll find such rich characters and very funny lines -- especially those observing women.
It might be my new favorite book.
And it also highlights why Americans always go for the underdog -- we WERE the underdog.
The other thing I like is that it's a quest book but on familiar landscape -- the trees and animals and such are all in MY backyard.
Lots of quest books have hobbits and things I don't know well.
My view of Maine and what life was like in the Colonies was shaped by this book. This was the 1st one of Mr. Roberts that I read. I meant a person while I was a Boy Scout in MN who knew the author personally. I have forgotten who this person was, just that he had a British accent.Thank you, thought for the memories.Great book.
I struggled to get interested in this book. I read a lot of historical fiction and non-fiction, but I didn't enjoy this. I kept forcing myself to read a few more pages, which is not me at all. Finally, I decided it wasn't worth it. Also of interest is that my teenage son who devours all history books fiction and nonfiction just felt that it was "okay."
This book provides a fictional look at a factual event: Benedict Arnold's ill-fated attempt to take Quebec during the American Revolution. I can't say enough good things bout this book. The writing is superb, the little-known tidbits of Abenaki lore are fun, and the historical detail is great.This book is perfect for a wintery seasonal read.
Fantastically written fictionalized tale of the failed attempt to take Quebec by Benedict Arnold and Daniel Morgan in the winter of 1775, told by a young man from Arundel(now Kennebunkport) Maine.
Amazing descriptions of Revolutionary War main players, especially Benedict Arnold and Aaron Burr.
It is clear that Arnold was a brave and charismatic leader.
Roberts' tale is based on his own ancestor's involvement in this heroic, although failed attempt to pluck Quebec from British rule.
My brother gave me this book for my birthday.
It is one of his favorite books and it is now one of mine.
AmazingI loved this classic. Thoroughly readable and so filled with facts about life and the differences between colonies and states and all the wrangling but still coming together great stories of Benedict Arnold and other Officers
Having read several of Kenneth Robert's novels I was looking forward to this one. Boring. The first few chapters sets up the plot well enough and then the rest of the book is a dripping faucet... except for the last chapter. Very disappointed and not sure I will read anymore of his books.
I wanted to read this story. And I still want to read this story, but I want to read it in a more engaging way. I really tried, and I do think he is a proficient writer, but somehow this fell flat for me.
Another great book about Arnold's Expedition to Quebec. Although it was not a fun trip, Roberts is great at making it into the best adventure ever!
Really was a hidden gem. I'd never heard of Kenneth Roberts before reading this great book and will be on the look out for his other novels in all my usual used book places.
This novel is absolutely first rate. An engaging story with frequently lyrical prose, it is wonderful entertainment and very reliable history of our American Revolution.
The story is centered around a young man from Maine and General Benedict Arnold's courageous expedition to lead an American army through the Maine wilderness to take the city of Quebec during the Revolutionary War. Roberts researched his subject thoroughly, and this book, full of endearing characters, courage, romance and sacrifice, will transport you in time to a moment of American history few have studied.
Roberts also wrote Northwest Passage, Rabble in Arms, and Oliver Wiswell.
Each of these books had ought to be mandatory reading for students of American history.
Don't be surprised if you return to these books again and again.
Historical fiction done right...French and Indian War...holds a place in my permanent collection..engrossing story
It's appealing still -- an almost 21st-century heroine (the book was written in the 1920's), a very subtle ear for dialect, and a persistent tone of reflection underscoring the historical setting: "In after years I heard these very folk speak of Pointe-aux-Trembles with a wagging of their heads and a smacking of their lips, as though they had found it a place of heavenly pleasure; yet I remember how full of rancor they were at the time.
393) which opens his description ending with "Now that I think back on it, Pointe-aux-Trembles was one of the pleasantest places I have ever known." (p.
He said that he'd thought about writing a book about Benedict Arnold, who went along the Kennebeck and I took a photo of the Plaque the Daughter's of the American Revolution had put up at some point along thier route for him.
It's a good story, and remarkable that any of them lived through the ordeal...I'm a wicked baby about being cold and those poor bastards...they didn't even have shoes or any cold weather essentials...I guess that guys who know most all there is to know about surviving in the woods, don't know much about love, but...I really enjoyed reading about the Indians and how they lived, and looking up the different rivers and places that they talked about...and if Bill ever writes his book about Benedict Arnold, I'll know something about it already!
The language is a little different and it takes a page or two to get used to it, but then I loved it.It's about Benedict Arnold and the attempt to take over Quebec during the beginning of the Revolutionary War. The main character is from Maine.
You really get a sense of what life was like there and how the different colonies felt about things; what caused the revolutionary war.
Didn't realize how they all hated the French having just fought them in the French & Indian Wars and now they have to side with them against the British.
As a teenager I read Roberts' March to Quebec: journals of the members of Arnold's expedition in stunned disbelief.
I enjoyed Robert's flamboyant style as he drew out the personalities of Arundel's citizens, from handsome and enterprising Steven Nash, to loud and brash Cap Huff, to that cross-dressing wild woman Phoebe (a master of the seas), as the narration of the march to Quebec unfolds.
Lively, humorous, and nerve-wracking, Roberts had me in his grip.As a note, I truly enjoyed his fair-handed treatment of New England's indigenous people.
Arundel by Kenneth Roberts is an informative, enjoyable read.
Beyond the fascinating history contained within these pages is the story of everyday people swept up in the American Revolution.
I came away with a different opinion of the man because Roberts fleshed him out so well and made him so much more than the one dimensional traitor portrayed in most history books.
Arundel also gives us a glimpse of the sacrifice and human suffering of the American Revolution, especially of the troops from Maine.
I highly recommend this book to any history lover!
The great story is realistically based on thorough-going historical research into the American attempt, led by Benedict Arnold, to capture Quebec in 1775 by means of an invasion launched from Maine.The tale has tinges of romantic innocence, not surprising for a novel first published in 1930.
The simpler sections — especially the intertwined love story — work because of the book's overall strengths.
Arnold seems to have appealed to the iconoclastic streak that Roberts showed in other books about the era but is outshone by the down-home characters around him.
Arundel was written by Kenneth Roberts, a native of Maine.
Arundel is narrated by Steve Nason who joins Benedict Arnold's 1775 expedition to capture Quebec at the outset of the American Revolution.
Nason, his friend Cap Huff, and the rest of the expedition paddle up the Kennebec River, and then down the Chaudiere River into Canada.
Roberts describes this world vividly, and the epic journey through the Maine and Canadian wilderness is full of adventure and travail.
Arundel, Rabble in Arms, Northwest Passage--these are all great adventure stories by Roberts, and they make history come alive!
