https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24612118-fates-and-furies
This book was a HUGE disappointment. I mean, holy purple prose, Batman! I really loved Lauren Groff’s writing in Arcadia - it was beautiful and touching, with gorgeous metaphors. But Fates and Furies is pretentious and overwritten. It tries so hard to be a literary masterpiece that you end up with asides like this one: Her mother had smelled of cold and scales, her father of stone dust and dog. She imagined her husband’s mother, whom she had never met, had a whiff of rotting apples, although her
Or when I got to Mathilde’s half of the book, which is supposed to humanize her and round out the narrative, when really it just had me raising my eyebrows for a solid 200 pages.The implication that married couples have secrets from each other is a sensible one; the idea that (view spoiler)[Mathilde had her tubes tied and then listened to Lotto talk about children for three decades is not (hide spoiler)].
(view spoiler)[Near the end of the book, Mathilde begins to write plays as well, including one called Volumnia.
The book blatantly tries to sell us that it’s unsuccessful because Mathilde as a woman gave up so much for Lotto’s success (Volumnia is always more interesting than Coriolanus, but who would go to see that play?, etc.).
Between his skin and hers, there was the smallest of spaces, barely enough for air, for this slick of sweat now chilling. Even still, a third person, their marriage, had slid in. This book is beautifully-written. I can't deny that and I won't try, which is why it gets an extra star. Fates and Furies is everyday poetry for those looking to turn the mundane into a meditation on the beauty of words and the power of metaphor. But when it comes to plot, characters and emotion, it leaves something to
Both of which are viewed through a distant, purple-tinted lens, delivering no warmth or connection to the story.Personally, I do not think this is like Gone Girl at all, story-wise or stylistically.
The basic, fundamental goals of each book feel different.Plus, I think - and this might get some raised eyebrows - that the characters of Gone Girl are saved from being completely unlikable.
Fates and Furies feels like a book for readers who genuinely enjoy the exploration of language and metaphor, and do not require some kind of emotional connection with the characters or story.
this is the story of the moving parts that keep a marriage going; the sacrifices and the machinations under the smooth facade.
instead of amy we have mathilde - an enigmatic woman who captivates the charismatic lotto with her beauty and holds him with The dark whip at the center of her.
tall, privileged lady's man lotto proposes to mathilde upon their first meeting and loves her all his life.
it's a love story about two people who saw each other clearly enough to sustain twenty-four years of marriage, and what they didn't know couldn't hurt them.
I only finished reading (hate-reading, actually) so I could have an outlet for my anger and disappointment: namely, writing a review of this novel.Reading the description that Goodreads has posted on its main page for Fates and Furies is making me physically ill: “Fates and Furies is a literary masterpiece that defies expectation.
is so horribly written: all of the characters but especially the two main characters are fake and phony, barely resembling in their words and deeds the actions of any real human beings; the novel reads as if Groff spent a year watching nothing but Dallas, Dynasty, and reality television shows about rich jerks and drew her characters compositely therefrom;3.
Book-1Shelby-0 I hate this book. There I said it. I keep trying to read it and then I look down and it says I still have soooo much time left in this book. I'm never going to finish.The only character that I'm somewhat interested in is Chollie. The rest of them are just pretentious hipster assholes.I'm a dnf'er. And I'm proud.Booksource: Netgalley in exchange for review I'm probably totally missing out by not making myself finish this book. (I'm still not gonna do it) but my friend Leanne loved
Book-1Shelby-0
  I hate this book. There I said it. I keep trying to read it and then I look down and it says I still have soooo much time left in this book. I'm never going to finish.The only character that I'm somewhat interested in is Chollie. The rest of them are just pretentious hipster assholes.I'm a dnf'er. And I'm proud.Booksource: Netgalley in exchange for review
  I'm probably totally missing out by not making myself finish this book. (I'm still not gonna do it) but my friend Leanne loved it and wrote a beautiful review for the book.
But why did it take me three weeks to read?This is a complex love story, full of secrets and regrets and passion.
(I’m realizing that all my complaints are about the husband’s story.) In his story, there is a series of New Year’s Eve parties, but they flowed into each other and it wasn’t clear at first that there are multiple years being covered.
She never lied, just never said."Their charged relationship makes for a juicy read, especially when you get to her story.
No amount of beautiful language can gild this piece of shit.
It's not often I say I hate a book, but I absolutely hate this, and yes, I realise I'm sticking my neck out, and I'll more than likely be in the minority, but c'est la vie.
It's another case of throwing every word you know, whether it actually makes sense or not - but never mind, it looks impressive.I don't doubt that Ms Groff toiled long and hard over this, in an effort to write The Great American Novel, but to me it comes across as self-indulgent fiddle-faddle.
Who is it who decides what I, the reader will like; who is it who calls this a masterpiece?
People want to lick other people's faces way too much in this novel.
You may disagree but personally I don't think most people have regular thoughts about how they want to lick one another's faces.
So to have characters think somewhat regularly or even more than once about licking one another's faces, in the same novel, felt odd to me.
People in this novel say things like "My family traded me for three mules and a bucket of butter" and "Bridget is to dating Lotto the way a remora is to dating a shark." Do these things mean anything to you?
and what makes it fail.
I enjoyed it reading this novel - but enjoyed my breaks away from it equally as much.
I seemed to require reading breaks to recharge my own energy.
Something about this story would begin to drain me.
I felt the beginning was very strong...
Yet, after a while, I felt there were too many mind-numbing details that started to suck the energy from the story.
Possibly if this novel wasn't as long I might have had a chance to directly feel more about each of the characters..
It's also possible - that this story may grow on me as time goes on.
''There was an enormous crack in the world.'' What constitutes a successful union between two people who love each other? The ability to have the courage to mend the cracks that appear in an alarming speed as the years go by. Now, in the marriage of Lotto and Mathilde, the cracks are there from the beginning. Especially in Lotto and all they have to do is to ignore them and move on. But Groff's novel is completely devoid of cracks or any other fault for that matter. In fact, it is plain and sim
Their relationship is presented in such a beautiful way that even a sworn enemy of marriage (such as myself) has to take a step back and contemplate for a while.However, in my opinion, the notion that lies at the heart of the story is the way our aspirations influence our course in life once they are fulfilled or-worse- once we realise that they have become dreams of a past that is slowly fading away...Groff's writing took me back to the time when I was studying, when me and my friends thought that we would be able to change the world once we graduate from university.
I started reading Fates and Furies a few times and my interest quickly waned because the writing felt impenetrable.
But this time I forced myself to read beyond the first few pages, and after sticking it out for a while I got completely sucked in -- by the writing, the concept, the atmosphere and the story.
As I say, I loved the writing, but there's also a real richness to the story that kept me wanting to read.
But Fates and Furies is an entirely different story -- it's not a mystery or a thriller -- it's about the the intense love and disparity between Lotto and Matilde throughout their twenty year plus marriage.
However, that being said, Fates & Furies was a phenomenal read.This is the love story of Lotto and Mathilde.
From perfection to perfectly flawed characters stripped of their stories living in their own play.
This is a backwards, upside down spiral of a story that will require the reader to piece it back together again in an attempt to decipher the people who we believe we are closest to; whom we think we know and love, when in reality, have never been further from the truth.
I’ve read some conflicting reviews - Groff's style is quite unique - but I have to say, this woman can write!
Her debut novel, “The Monsters of Templeton” (2008); her stirring story collection, “Delicate Edible Birds”; and my favorite book of 2012, “Arcadia ” — all demonstrated her exquisite style and tough, heart-breaking compassion.
Spanning decades, oceans and the whole economic scale from indigence to opulence, this novel holds within its grasp the story of one extraordinary marriage.
Not yet 40, Groff nonetheless captures the complicated ways love blesses, transforms and, yes, deceives us over many years.The novel’s title reflects its two-part structure.
Born “in the calm eye of a hurricane” — lucky from the start — Lotto is the adored son of a wealthy Florida family.
The trouble I have with contemporary literary fiction is that I’m still primed to expect it to be more than it is. Like most newer books I’ve read lately, this is an engaging series of improbable events happening to gorgeous people, which elucidates no serious truths about the world around me. There’s nothing wrong with that and I enjoyed reading it, but I feel a lingering pressure to feel more.
The novel is split into two perspectives of the same marriage – Lotto, the husband (the fates) and Mathilde, the wife (the furies).
What Lotto thinks he earns through good fortune and the purity of his ambition we learn has often been the result of Mathilde pulling hidden strings in the dark.
Groff makes a very literal case for this when she has Mathilde even fine tuning Lotto’s manuscripts without him realising, a somewhat implausible development it has to be said.
It’s sometimes like Groff introduces high drama motifs – a private detective, a mysterious child death, dark hints at child abuse - simply to discover she doesn’t need them to construct a gripping plot.
The moral of the review is that if you write about sex for almost 300 pages (75% of the book) and still end up with a monotonous, tedious, unprovocative novel, then something has going disastrously wrong.The author "tells" you that the couple have this epic, out of this world love for one another, but all you are "shown" is a superficial, childish, unhealthy relationship driven by lust, which could never be confused for love.The first half, Fates, is told from the husband's point of view and was utterly painful to read.
And that huge "shocking" twist at the end of the book?
A rather generic novel kept alive by a potent prose.
Fans of Gone Girl style novels will probably like this a lot—and they should definitely read this—and feel rewarded for the depth and prose that goes beyond Flynn's ability.
Once you realize the intent is to wow the reader with 'twists' (there is a great Nabokov quote about only juvenile authors using twists, and another by Carver saying that twist gimmicks are the quickest way for a book to land in his trash can), any twist then becomes actually rather predictable.2.5/5
E fá-lo com a maior naturalidade, sem o menor esforço visível!Mathilde é a Mulher -- aquela que o faz esquecer todas as outras porque tem tudo o que ele alguma vez desejou!...A segunda parte pertence a Mathilde.
E falo com a voz da experiência, pois assim sucedeu comigo!Quanto à história em si, é deveras credível, ocupando-se dum tema que nos toca profundamente a todos -- o relacionamento.Concluída esta resenha, que me levou a reflectir profusamente sobre o que li, pergunto-me se não seria caso para um 5?!Bem...
The novel is fabulous, at times stormy, and always ambitious, and has all the elements of the greats: passion, deception, betrayal, tragedy, redemption.Lauren Groff probes the marriage of two vibrant and fully-developed characters, Lotto and Mathilde (and an assorted, colorful cast of their friends and family) by calling, with seeming ease, to the ancients in Greek tragedies, mythology, and of course the marvelously provided subtext of the Fates and the Furies.
So naturally, Ms. Groff made her novel also a paean to the theater ("empty theaters are quieter than other empty places"), playwrights and Shakespearean tragedies, which she compliments with remarkable symbolism and short readings of rich pieces of original meta-plays, while always avoiding any trace of the affected, didactic or overly erudite.
“It occurred to her then that life was conical in shape, the past broadening beyond the sharp point of the lived moment.
A speck on the slender child grows into a gross deformity in the adult, inescapable, ragged at the edges.”I think that quote sums this book up pretty well.
It's a book about perspective—and perception.
About how people can seem one way but be another, or how life may seem to go in one direction but to someone else it's moving in the totally opposite way.The writing was sharp, but lush.
Definitely not a story for everyone, but I was pleasantly surprised by it.
The secrets in this book are essentially melodramatic and even a little preposterous; they're also all one-sided which meant you had one overly complex character, the wife, and one overly simplistic, the husband.
At times Groff flirts with leftfield feminist notions of the role a wife plays in the creative output of her husband, like the idea Zelda was the real genius in the Fitzgerald partnership.
I'm sure it's a better novel than I'm making it out to be but sometimes a book irritates us and we become a bit irrational and exaggerated in our dislike.
Great swaths of her life were white space to her husband. What she did not tell him balanced neatly with what she did. Still, there are untruths made of words and untruths made of silence, and Mathilde had only ever life to Lotto in what she never said." As a literary construct, Fates and Furies is a mannered edifice of spun sugar, gorgeous and brittle. As a story, it splits open the melon of marriage to show the overripe flesh inside and a core that is on the verge of rotting. I can smell it,
Still, there are untruths made of words and untruths made of silence, and Mathilde had only ever life to Lotto in what she never said."
The mutability of truth in marriage—this is the pungent, nearly rotten core of Fates and Furies.
The novel exposes what really lies inside a long-term relationship, once the smooth, silky skin of its public face is broken and the truth spills out.
Fates is the story of Lancelot "Lotto" Satterwhite, a charismatic actor-turned-playwright whose narcissism imbues his character with an unearned optimism.
Until the book's second section, Furies , which lets us in on Mathilde's side of the story.
The only reason why I gave this book 2 stars was because of the beautiful writing. However the stereotypical main characters, pretentious sentences that don't really mean anything, dry storyline, and forgettable characters almost left me in a reading slump. I was really disappointed with this one because I expected so much more from it (National Book Award and Pulitzer nominations) but once again I was a victim of book hype.
I had read one previous novel by Groff and felt rather ambivalent about it (Arcadia) but she is one friend's favorite author and then the book was a finalist for the National Book Award - the fates would have been furious had I not given it a try.
The novel stops being about marriage at all, although I think it always is for Lotto.
(hide spoiler)]I did get a review copy of this novel through Edelweiss but a combination of not realizing I had been approved and dragging my feet meant that I read it after it came out.
Her debut novel, “The Monsters of Templeton” (2008); her stirring story collection, “Delicate Edible Birds” (2010); and my favorite book of 2012, “Arcadia ” — all demonstrated her exquisite style and tough, heartbreaking compassion.
(...) Swelling with a contrapuntal symphony of passions, “Fates and Furies” is that daring novel that seems to reach too high — and then somehow, miraculously, exceeds its own ambitions."Ron Charles in the Washington PostHallelujah.
It's hard to pin down exactly what Lauren Groff managed to do here but one can only sit back and think hard on what just happened to you once you finish reading this truly stunning novel.
My sincere thanks to Netgalley and Riverhead Books for providing this e-galley due to be published September 15, 2015.3.5 rounded up to 4 as I am of a positive nature...The Hook - The promise of an exhilarating read about relationships and marriage.
The line I really liked has to do with committing the embodiment of someone to perpetuity.The Sinker – Do not expect a quick read where everything is as it seems.
This story of the courtship and marriage of Lotto and Mathilde was worth the more diligent reading it required.
Lauren Groff?
Girl can write.
She is a bit of a show-off even.
I like that.
Also, I am exhausted.
This is quite the ride.
Let's see.
Since there has been SO much buzz surrounding this one and many good reviews I think I will just throw some thoughts out there.
Stylistically this is gorgeous.
The writing is abrupt.
Sometimes it is confusing.
Parts of the story are a bit pat.
Doesn't matter.
Quibbles.
I think I will explain it to patrons as a thinking person's Gone Girl.
I do not mean that in an arrogant or demeaning way.
DNF'ed around page 220. This book is so not my thing. From the language to the structure to the character development, I don't think this book is good at all. You may love it but it does things that irritate me to my very core. Life is too short to finish books like this.
The author can turn a phrase, certainly.Despite the lovely description of the husband Lotto's childhood in Florida (which utterly enthralled me), my interest in the first section of the book faltered terribly when he hit the age of about 30.
Seriously, this book covers 40 years of his life and then of hers - without some interesting twists, this thing was a ship going under water fast for me, and having to read the multiple plays-within-the-novel made me wish for a faster drowning.
The author projected herself as very affected or pretentious to me, not just by writing herself in as a side character in the story, but with the whole idea of human scent.
