https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6793507-o-lustre
It makes it hard to understand what is going on (the relationship between the brother and the sister is the most clear but I have no idea what is real and what's not) and difficult to navigate as a story.
I think I'll bail on the novel and at some point return to the short stories, and see if I have a better experience with them.
I got about halfway after multiple attempts before calling it quits, because I really felt like this would be for me!Thanks to the publisher for approving my request through Edelweiss, and apologies for not making it through.
Drowning in Sensation, or Lost in Translation?The young Clarice Lispector (photo: Paulo Gurgel Valente) Sensation:So far as I know, the chandelier of the title is mentioned once only, on page 10. It makes as good a place to start as any: Without knowing why, she’d nonetheless halt, fanning her bare thin arms; she lived on the verge of things. The parlor. The parlor filled with neutral spots. The smell of an empty house. But the chandelier! There was the chandelier. The great spider would glow.
Take the second sentence in the passage above, "Slight stain was rippling in one of the corners, expanding like a light nearly erased coolness." It reads almost like a parody, doesn’t it, as though spit out by Google Translate unaltered.* On the very first page, when Virgínia is described as looking down at a river "with her serious mouth pressed against the dead branch of the bridge," and that word "branch" appeared again a few pages later, I got hold of the original Portuguese text online for comparison; could it mean "railing"?
Behind secure movements she was trying with danger and delicateness to touch the same light and elusive, to find the nucleus made of a single instant, before the quality came to rest on things, before what really came unbalanced tomorrow—and there’s a feeling ahead and another falling away, the tenuous triumph and the defeat, perhaps nothing more than breathing.
Here Lispector is working with experience, with environment, both internal and external, in fascinating ways, and relentlessly exploring her lifelong pursuit of capturing “the nucleus made of a single instant".
A must read for any who live to explore language.
It’s an arpeggiation of language where Lispector bends words to her will, with the image and feeling of the syntax as the most important factor in choice and placement rather than sparkling clarity.
what lives on the page is a person’s chaotic, spontaneous thoughts, often unfiltered through the organizing functions of consciousness.I will admit to “enjoying” Near to the Wild Heart more than this, Lispector’s second novel, though The Chandelier is inarguably the more significant and important piece of literature.
I "studied" it by reading a few pages a day and taking notes.
But is she?When I finished the novel, I realized that, at least at times in my most secret thoughts while being a female who has always questioned what she was being taught about life as a female, I have been to some degree divorced from "normal."Since reading the book, I find myself when I am with my female friends and family members, listening for those inner realities.
Generally when people write about or praise Lispector it is with regards to the stories and novels she began to produce upon returning to Brazil and getting back down to work as a writer at the beginning of the 1960s.
As when I read those early stories, I though frequently of Virginia Woolf when reading Lispector's second novel.
The thing about Lispector's stream-of-consciousness it that its syntax is so unconventional and her insights at times so curiously opaque that, though the novel does "flow" like the life of its protagonist, it were as though the author wanted to systematically slow you down and make you breath it all in.
like always, lispector affirms every breath of life and its glitter-pen possibility, but especially those breaths historically given little air(time).
within this book (and lispector) is a way of coming to understand the power in being able to sit in internal appreciation of everything (esp the external) without it being dignified by some human-referent.
every time i read her i feel like i can love without rationing, i can embed myself in the instant, in the plastic and dissolution of sensations and connections, i can learn live with the pleasure of being alive and accept the inevitability of death, a way of going into another layer of matter--silence after the such restless talk---
The ChadelierBy Clarice Lispector 1946New Directions BookThis was not an easy read.
It takes a certain focus to get through....it takes the reader not just into the lives of the characters, but into their psyche and thinking processes, and their daily mental escape, exhausted from living.
I'm sure many will give up on this because of the focus it takes, but for those that do read and finish it, this book will knock you over and leave you breathless.
The ending will blow your mind.This is the first time the book has been translated to English and published in th USA.
Me resultò un poco aburrido si bien no puedo dejar de destacar la prosa impecable de Lispector. Tal vez la clave de sus libros sea leerlos como se lee la poesìa, dejando de lado el sentido y la comprensiòn del argumento. Prometo darle otra oportunidad en un par de meses.
«Con los ojos ardientes y cansados sentía en el pecho   un dolor inmutable y apaciguado, como si se hubiese  tragado su propio corazón y lo soportase con dificultad».[ Reseña ]
This is a beautiful book that demands a lot from its reader but rewards constantly with spurts of intense beauty. Worth sticking it out despite the sting it might leave you with.
Es imposible leerlo rápido, y creo que la clave de este libro es paladearlo. Describe imágenes y recuerdos y sensaciones que si se las saborea despacio uno puede reconocer que comparte aunque nunca haya sabido nombrarlas. La consciencia de ser, del tiempo, del amor, de la familia y de los otros, del estupor frente a todo eso, la rara angustia que se siente frente al tiempo fugitivo, todo eso capturado por una prosa poética que párrafo tras párrafo alcanza picos de belleza, de expresividad. Imposible escribir así, pero está escrito. Eso sí, es un libro de sabor difícil.
Está pendiente a un lado de mi cama. Me pasa con casi todo lo que leo de esta mujer, que creo es mi autora favorita... No sé, siempre hay algo de inquietante y misterioso en sus historias que necesitan dejarse descansar y retomar cuando el humor y la disposición mejora. Cuando lo termine comento más...
Excelente! Captada a essência da escritora e o seu sentido da vida. Fundamental para perceber a Clarice Lispector.
"tudo existia tão livre que ela poderia mesmo inverter a ordem dos seus sentimentos, não ter medo da morte, temer a vida, desejar a fome, odiar as coisas felizes, rir-se da tranquilidade... Sim, bastaria um pequeno toque e numa coragem leve e fácil galgaria a inércia e reinventaria a vida instante por instante."
Step aside, Joyce. The mind belongs to Clarice Lispector.
מטען רגשי טהור, בלי העכבות של מטען דרמטי, הלך עלילתי, קשרים בין-אישיים וכדומה. זיקוק בן עשרות אלפי מילים של היסוד הרגשי שמבעבע לפעמים ברגעים בהם "זה" מגיע ואי אפשר לשאת אותו יותר.
"She would be fluid through her whole life" it starts Virginia's journey. The fluidity of the narrative depends on our main character's decision: by the time she decides one thing, the narrative takes a turn so that later on there's another decision to be made. There is no such thing as bad writing for Clarice, but this was very hard to go through. Very dense and sometimes slow paced, we follow (mostly) Virginia's thinking process; sometimes we get a look into other carachters' mind and there never is a slight change in the narrative. It's all fluid.
truly wonderful. charts the interior as only lispector does. this may be my favorite novel of hers, and is likely now going to be my pick to recommend readers looking for an entry point to her body of work. can’t believe it wasn’t in translation before! thank you new directions.
the ending of the book is very similar to the ending of “The hour of the star״, and i wonder why it’s the second time she kills a hero in a random accident just when the reader starts to get attached (actually, this one is the first since this book was her second and published many many years before ‘’The hour of the star’’, but later to be translated to English).I wonder why this odd ending.
Still, while not the easiest of her books, it’s full of talent and originality, but I think you’d enjoy it more if you’re familiar with her later works.
I'm tempted to just copy and paste the entire NYT review from March here, but I'll insert just part:No one sounds like Lispector — in English or Portuguese.
.] If the pages of The Chandelier are so thickly lacquered with description, streams of adjectives and looping repetition, it’s because Lispector is flexing, coming into her power.
These pages are full of finger exercises, arpeggios of thought and perception.This is not, not, not an easy book.
And I like Lispector.
But I don't think this book is meant to be digested like a normal book.
News flash: it is not a normal book.
Lispector nos entrega un monstruo con deformidades que reconocemos en nosotros mismos, en nuestra piel —y debajo de ella—; pero que es, al mismo tiempo, un monstruo inclasificable. Su lectura es dura, sucesiva y violenta. No se acaba hasta que se acaba, y en el ínterin no hay descanso. No apta para primerizos, esta novela rala deja el sabor de boca de un poema quizá demasiado largo, confuso, pero bello. Sirve para verse en el espejo de esta gran escritora brasileña —que ojalá muchos quisieran leer—, y enfrentarse a su estilo.
Este libro es como un enigma envuelto en un trabalenguas que se tragó una máquina de escribir mientras observaba el atardecer. Si bien hay pasajes que merecen ser leídos, estos no logran superar la suma de sus partes con otros párrafos (mucho) más densos del texto. Es Lispector sin destilación alguna, si alguien no conoce su obra, no recomiendo empezar la lectura de la misma con "La lámpara".
While there are some lovely turns of phrase, in the end I couldn't see this book as more than 200 pages of the internal monologue of the most boring, vacuous person I've ever met.
Demands and rewards patience and focus.
Homem é tudo tosco mesmo.
I couldn’t wait to finish...i almost didn’t..not an easy read but truly a labor of love. Made me have memories and feelings I had never felt from a book before. Lucid and dreamlike quality
Glimpses of brilliance, I imagine more will be revealed upon repeated readings.
Particularmentem gostei-o mais que Perto do Coração Selvagem.
Continua tão existencialista como sempre, mas aqui, tenta, também, contar uma história.
Virginia é um dos personagens femininos mais incríveis que já tive a chance de conhecer.
Principalmente quando esta torna-se adulta e seus sentimentos voltam-se tão complexos e por muitas vezes inconexos.
O Lustre é um livro certamente menosprezado e que não alcançou tanta fama como seu predecessor por razões que desconheço, mas se alguma pessoa ter dúvidas sobre lê-lo ou não, dizer-lhe-ei que não pense mais: abra o livro e desfrute com a DIVA entre DIVAS da literatura brasileira.
Se trata de una obra compuesta enteramente en base a monólogos interiores, no tan abrasiva como las obras de Faulkner, sino mucho más estética, con un lenguaje mucho más poético.Se nos narra la historia de Virgnia, a manera de una remembranza posterior de algunos hechos que han afectado su vida.
Y es difícil digerirla, porque ante todo es una historia de mucha soledad y tristeza.
Creo que puede resultar un poco embrollosa y es un reto para lectores menos experimentados el no perder el hilo de lo que se está contando, podría decirse que es "densa", sin embargo si se persevera seguro se logra y al final, una vez asimilado el rudo desenlace, se puede revaluar de mejor manera aquello que se ha leído.Disfrute mucho esta lectura.
