https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30269104-the-chilbury-ladies-choir
The choir becomes important in providing a channel to keep their spirits up, channel emotional distress, provide support and personal development.With warmth, wit and humour, the author gives us a wide range of characters with all the petty resentments, falling in love, tragedies and intrigue that beset any community.
I particularly loved Mrs Tilling and Prim, women who come to realise they have nothing to lose and can be exactly who they are and so becoming role models for others.
This novel celebrates all that women did during the war and the role that music and the choir provide in inspiring, a route to express grief and providing succour.
Notice pinned to the Chillbury village hall noticeboard, Sunday 24th March, 1940: As all our male voices have gone to war, the village choir is to close following Cmdr Edmund Winthrop's funeral next Tuesday - The VicarLovely book!
For the really good and relaxing read, great story, five stars!
Great and colorful story buildup with each chapter written from the point of view of one of the book's main characters.
Central roles for a number of women in the village of Chillbury who decide to go on with the village choir, women only, in absence of the men out to war...
With very few men left in the village, the women in the village decide it is their duty to keep things going, maintain normality as much as possible and this includes restarting the disbanded choir, with women only members.I love reading books that are written as letters, journal entries, articles etc.
I honestly don't think I would have had such a positive reaction to this book of done in straightforward pose, would probably have come off too syrupy or gossipy.
Just telling glimpses of everyone's lives, their feelings and a general understanding of what was happening in the village and believe you me there is quite a bit going to tell.
"The Chilbury Ladies' Choir" is an epistolary novel providing a snapshot of the experiences of a group of mostly women during World War II over the time period from March-September 1940.
Prim restructures the choral music for women's voices only, the Vicar concedes defeat, and The Chilbury Ladies' Choir is born.
Mrs. Tilling, a nurse with a quiet demeanor, finds her true voice while the misdeeds of unethical midwife Edwina Paltry play out.
We view the growth of Mrs. Tilling and Venetia as well as the demise of Edwina Paltry.
The Chilbury Ladies Choir is quite the fascinating read.
A different take on WW2 and how people survive during this time.
The story is told over a series of letters, newspaper articles, and journal entries and switches back and forth between these and various characters.
Then there is the war, the bombings, the lives lost and during this time, the folks of Chillbury.
Most of the men have gone off to war and it's up to the ladies in town to stand up and prove that they CAN do it.
Sometimes the narrator, usually female, would do this odd voices for say, gruffy older men.
Only twenty he was—one minute a repulsive reptile, the next a feast for the fishes....Beside her, that foreign evacuee girl looked petrified, like she’d seen death before and a lot more besides.And so begins a novel, with Miss Edwina Paltry's letter to her sister (quite a fitting surname given the different meanings: small, meagre, trifling, insignificant, negligible, inadequate, insufficient, scant, scanty, derisory, pitiful, pitiable, pathetic, miserable, sorry, wretched, puny, trivial, niggardly, beggarly, mean, ungenerous, inappreciable, mere).The fictional tale and characters are based on the real diaries and journals which were written during the first year of WWII in Britain for an organization called Mass Observation.
Let me say right off that it was a very good story with some intrigue, some mystery, and an unusual plot.What bothered me was that the letters and journals seemed a bit contrived.
She didn't really fit into any mold, and came across as a real person.The ending was a bit contrived as well, wrapping everything up very neatly with happy ever after for all.I think what I'm trying to say is that I expected more depth from this novel, and it ended up being just a routine chick-lit, which is sometimes just fine, but not what I wanted right now.
Read this book over a couple of months because I didn't want it to end. Such detail, such heart, and some excellent village intrigue and cabal, all set agains the backdrop of World War II. One of my favorite adult books of recent memory. Jennifer Ryan is going to be an auto-buy for me from now on.
But here comes a new music instructor to the nearby University and she forms The Chilbury Ladies’ Choir.
“It is time for us women to do what we can as a group to support each other and keep our spirits up.” As someone who has sung for years in a choir, it's a true sentiment.
The book is based on her grandmother’s stories of a choir she sung in during WWII and the freedoms women had because of the war.
For those who enjoyed The Summer Before the War or the tv series Land Girls or Home Fires, I would recommend this novel.
4.5 Stars "NOTICE PINNED TO THE CHILBURY VILLAGE HALL NOTICEBOARD, SUNDAY, 24TH MARCH, 1940As all our male voices have gone to war, the village choir is to close following Cmdr. Edmund Winthrop’s funeral next Tuesday.The Vicar Tuesday, 26th March, 1940"The Chilbury Ladies’ Choir, told through letters and journals, and “lists” of things, is a story set in a small village in England, as WWII ravaged the landscape, lives and changed an entire generation, and those that followed. A town with a few p
War is always present, in little reminders, in one of the characters thoughts or another’s actions.”List of things to make note of before someoneleaves for warThe shapre of their body—the blank cutoutthat will be left when they’re gone.The way they move, the gait of their walk, thespeed at which they turn to look.The crush of smells and scents that lingeronly so long.Their color, the radiance that veils everythingThey do, including their death.” There’s so much about this that makes it clear that it’s a story from another time, another place, and I loved that the things that characterized the time and place seemed so naturally to belong then and there.
3.5 stars.
The Chilbury Ladies’ Choir is an endearing, uplifting and refreshing story about five members of The Chilbury Ladies’ Choir who are left behind as the men go off to fight in the war.
It's a story of grief, deception, struggles, romance and hope as the threats from the Nazi’s reaches their village and shattering lives.
Even though I found there to be some dramatic plot lines, it worked for me as it added some mystery and romance to the story and I couldn't help but love the ladies of the chilbury choir and their stories.
It has given us everyday women a voice - dared us to stand up for ourselves, and to stand up for others." -Jennifer Ryan, The Chilbury Ladies' ChoirThis book had a little bit of everything I look for in a story.
The story of the formation of the Chilbury Ladies' Choir during the spring and summer of 1940, is told through the voices of four very different women.
4.5 StarsThe ladies of Chilbury, England are not going to let the devastation of war hold them back, as most of the men in their small village have gone off to fight and the women are now are left to support each other.
This is an endearing story that is filled with friendship and camaraderie as the women lose loved ones and face hardship, but use their choir time and music as a way to work through their pain and loneliness.
However, this is not your typical war novel as Jennifer Ryan uses letters and journal entries to show how scandalous secrets are being kept and how romance has found its way into the village.
This was a lovely story about so much more than the ladies' Choir in Chilbury, England.
The characters are believable--a scheming midwife willing to arrange abortions a precocious 12 year old girl with fantasies of true love a widow still grieving over her husband, dead for several years a flirtatious teen about to become a woman the local lord of the manor, a nasty bullyand the new music teacher, choirmasterAll interact so well that I read this book in 3 days, reading the last 200 pages in one day.Some quotes: Funeral service "At the front, the Winthrops and their aristocrat friends were sitting all plumed and groomed like a row of black swans." Kitty, precocious 12 years old girl's diary "I like to see people as colors, a kind of aura or halo surrounding them, shading their outsides with the various flavors of their insides."On starting a ladies only choir because all the men are gone "What will God think?
The letters and diaries truly felt authentic.“There is a way of life here that I don’t believe any war can crush, that will endure long after we’re gone.”This story begins in an English village in the early days of World War II after the men of Chilbury have left to support the war effort and a village ‘ladies only’ choir is born.
The tone of the book is upbeat but there are plenty of sobering moments as the war disrupts and impacts their lives.Jennifer Ryan has a wonderfully creative style of writing which celebrates the spirit and bonding of the women left behind during War.

Set in southern England in a small village in 1940, it examines the life of the people as they start to face the reality of most of the men gone to war.
The story is told by four or five characters through letters and journals.
I sure have my fingers crossed that this will go ahead.The characters are really interesting, they feel like real people, some of them are rogues and worse, one of them rather precocious but delightful, others kind and compassionate and already the war is changing many of them.
Mrs Tilling, a timid widow and nurse; Edwina Paltry, a conniving midwife; Venitia, a self-centered flirt; Kitty, her younger sister who loved to sing; and Silvie, a Jewish refugee.This delightful story is full of intrigue, romance, war, blackmail, and plenty of action to keep you enticed!It was wonderful to see the way the ladies came together to help each other and the town.
They found strength in themselves, and hope, support, and joy from each other!The choice of music the choir sings is very inspiring, and it was as if I could hear the beautiful music and feel the JOY of it!!The author did a wonderful job of bringing the character's personalities to life!
Chilbury in Kent is largely made up of women now that the men have gone off to war and the story is largely brought to life through the means of journal entries and letters written by the women.
Venetia about the artist in the village and her attempts to ensnare him and Kitty about her singing lessons with Prim, the choir, the doings of her beastly sister Venetia and her adventures in the woods and fields with their Czech evacuee, 11 year old Sylvie.Grief and heartbreak do come to Chilbury during the war along with the rest of the nation and the Choir serves to support the women and give them some moments of joy and beauty.
World War 2 historical fiction is one of my favorite genres, and Jennifer Ryan writes a beautiful story with a very entertaining cast of characters.
The effect of the choir on Chilbury and several neighboring towns is immense, and I laughed out loud and cried many times.Jennifer Ryan tells the story in a series of journal entries and letters reminiscent of The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society, and that method is very effective in this novel.
The Chilbury Ladies’ Choir contains so many lovely sentiments and statements about both the war and life generally.
Three and a half stars for a lovely story of woman who find their inner strength during WW 2.
With the men all gone to war, the ladies step up and find that they are able to do everything the men had done.
They are not the docile meek woman anymore but acquire the wherewithal to be what was needed.
The characters are great, so real and yet quite able to stand up for themselves sometimes not for the good either.
Resiliency is the core of this novel and certainly these ladies are the embodiment of that word.
I was expecting more from this book, but it turned out to be conventional women's fiction with gossip, jealousy and unwanted pregnancy set during WWII. Since the story was told in the form of letters and journal entries, it was a little disjointed. Also, this stylistic convention wasn't convincingly done. I don't think people usually include full conversations in their correspondence and journals. I didn't hate it, but it was a very slight story.I received a free copy of the ebook from the publisher, but I wound up borrowing and listening to the audiobook from the library.
The Chilbury Ladies' Choir is a sweet story about several women on England's coast during WWII.
Told through a series of letters and journal entries, the book tells the story of Mrs. Tilling, Venetia and her sister Kitty, Silvie and Edwina Paltry.
I was surprised, but mostly pleasantly so, at the number of issues that the author touched on: politics, war, child abuse, abortion, single mothers, and women's rights.
This will be a book that I will read again and hope to own.
Thank you NetGalley and Crown Publishing for allowing me to read this ARC in exchange for an honest review.
World War II fiction has become a passion of mine, and this book is a true standout representing The Greatest Generation. Told in letters and journal entries written by those on the homefront in a quaint English village, this book is superbly written, emotionally rendered, and full of interesting characters. A must-read tale of friendship, love, and a community coming together when it is needed most. I hope the author plans to write a follow-up because I am not ready to let these characters go! Thanks to Goodreads and the publisher for the complimentary copy.
Absolutely loved everything about this book! The setting, plot, characters, and writing were just fabulous. Highly recommend to fans of The Guernsey LIterary and Potato Peel Pie Society as well as to readers of all good fiction.
The Vicar"Through notices, letters and journal and diary entries, THE CHILBURY LADIES' CHOIR unfolds the struggles, affairs, deceptions, and triumphs of a village choir during World War II.
As England becomes enmeshed in the early days of World War II and the men are away fighting, the women of Chilbury village defy the vicar and form The Chilbury Ladies' Choir.
Thanks to the library I had the great pleasure of listening to a borrowed unabridged audio version of THE CHILBURY LADIES' CHOIR authored by Jennifer Ryan and spectacularly read by Gabrielle Glaister, Laura Kirman, Imogen Wilde, Adjoa Andoh, Tom Clegg and Mike Grady.
"Its us women in charge now," she said in more of her old cavalier style. "The Chilbury Ladies Choir will rule the world."After the majority of the men leave to fight in the war, the town of Chilbury is left primarily with women. The vicar, believing that the choir will not work without men, disbands it despite the womens objections. That is until a newcomer to town rallies the women together and asembles the Chilbury Ladies Choir, the first women-only choir. While not everyone is in agreement,
"The Chilbury Ladies´ Choir will rule the world."After the majority of the men leave to fight in the war, the town of Chilbury is left primarily with women.
That is until a newcomer to town rallies the women together and asembles the Chilbury Ladies´ Choir, the first women-only choir.
While not everyone is in agreement, these women seek that their singing keeps the morale of the town up.I absolutely loved this novel!
Narrated through letters and journal entries, the focus of the novel were the women as they rally to put their choir, as well as their community, together.
3.5 Stars.A bit heavy handed and soap opera-ish at times, but enjoyable.
The writing is solid and the characters, for the most part, likeable.It follows the lives of several English women, living in a small village in Kent, during the early months of World War II.
There is choir practice, intrigue, scandal, secrets, romance, tragedy and a few bombs.
The ending seemed a bit open, with years of the war left and some unresolved story lines, hinting at a second book I hope.This book reminded me of the British TV series Home Fires, which I loved.
The story of this choir, and some of its members and the goings on in the village in Kent is told through letters or diary entries by various people.
In this way the reader comes to see that there is a lot more going on in the village of Chilbury than anyone suspects.Although I was looking forward to reading this as I love books about the power of music and the value of choirs, it still took me a little while to get into this novel.
Books told by diary entries and letters are not among my favourites, but after a while this story and its characters won me over.
The book did convey the prevailing atmosphere of the times, with the men off at war, and the women left to cope and worry.
Also fear of the dreaded telegram crept into many lives.A turning point occurred, however, when the recently diminished choir found courage to proceed without any male voices, despite the vicar’s ruling to the contrary.
Music was a strong draw, providing a sense of community and purpose.
The Chilbury Ladies Choir has been reasonably compared to Home Fires, the excellent PBS series.
How resilient human beings are that we can learn slowly to carry on when we are left all alone, to fill the void as best we can.
