https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/420180.The_Little_White_Horse
And the foil character of Maria's "blameworthy" ancestress who was too "proud" to forgive her husband for little offenses like, oh, pretending to be in love with her when he really was after her inheritance, and then probably killing her father and infant brother to secure them.
Other than than their main crime seems to be poaching rabbits, which is pretty friggin' anticlimactic for the Dark Men who live in the Black Castle in the mysterious and frightening pine woods.The ending was all too pat and easy, and OMG (view spoiler)[ Maria gets MARRIED at 14, what the Hell?!
I personally, never liked the Old Parson much, but as I love all the other characters I am willing to forgive him.Since I first read this book I have visited Compton Castle in Devon, which is believed to have been the inspiration for Moonacre Manor.
It makes for a doubly beautiful experience to read.There has also been made a film of the book in 2008, under the title 'The Secret of Moonacre.' Although aesthetically lovely, it was poorly written and greatly changed from the book.
One of my fav books from childhood & one I re-read annually. Thanks to JK Rowling, it's now undergoing a resurgence in popularity - being republished & make into a movie. Not bad for a book which one the Carnegie Medal in 1946. Ever since I have wanted a round tower bedroom.
I think this is one of those books where if you don't read it as a child, you will never fully appreciate it as an adult.
The plot itself is just lovely - but if you go into this reading it from the perspective of a jaded, cynical, literary-minded adult, you won't be able to appreciate it.If I had to sum up this book in one word, it would be "exquisite." This book is precious, beautiful, moral, and unsullied by modern ideals.
Yes, people have called it dated, but when you read a book, you are leaving your world and entering into the book's world, which should be appreciated for its own worth.
It is set sometime in the 19th century, in the Devonshire countryside that the author so loved; and it is an engaging and old-fashioned tale, underpinned by both magic and faith.Maria Merryweather was born and raised in London, but when was thirteen she was orphaned and sent to live with her last living relative – Sir Benjamin of Moonacre Manor – in the heart of the country.
Maria learns of her sadness and wrong-going in her family’s history, and she realises that it has fallen to her to set things right.Elizabeth tells her story beautifully; she really was a mistress of the art of story-telling.
Sweet, enchanting, quirky, and a little bit magical. This was a wonderful children’s classic that swept me away with its enchanted setting (and lovely writing) and had me giggling in equal parts. My only regret is that I didn’t read it as a child. I would have LOVED the descriptions of moonacre manor. So beautiful!!
You may be thinking "who wants to read a book about a little white horse?" Honestly, its not like that at all.
But beneath all the whimsical beauty, Maria starts to unravel the strange history of the manor--something much darker and more mysterious than could ever be believed of her new, picturesque home.
She will soon learn that everything is not what it seems in this beautiful world of hers...A maze of caverns, forests, friendship and tangled-up love stories, The Little White Horse is sure to please even those who don't believe in fairytales.
I don't mind books that introduce a Christian ethic.
Also, the main character is so clearly a Mary Sue. Her name is even Maria.
She has captivating silver eyes and an impetuous nature (when she isn't being chided by every fatherly character to keep her "female curiosity" in check).
Also, instead of saying that a character "exclaims" something, she says "ejaculated." I know, I should be more mature, but it was distracting.
OH, and Maria [Sue] keeps going through all the book's events "with a beating heart." ...well, she's alive isn't she?
Anyway, I probably would have LOVED this book when I was 12 or 13.

It is a fun adventure, set in a pure and innocent world where good overcomes evil, enemies reconcile and hope is restored.Set in 19th century England, it is a magical story of the newly orphaned Maria who has to leave her London home to stay with her guardian Sir Benjamin Merryweather, at Moonacre Manor.
They manage this with the help of several unusually intelligent animals, including a very large dog, a lazy Cavalier King Charles Spaniel, an elderly pony, a majestic cat and a wise hare.Overall THE LITTLE WHITE HORSE is a lovely heart-warming story of innocence, friendship, discovery, magic and ultimately good fighting evil.
The setting was intriguing and hard to categorize--a pocket of idyllic landscape in the real world of Victorian England, with idealized circumstances and fanciful creatures.
I suppose it's the world as a happy, innocent child would imagine it: anthropomorphic animals, paradisiacal nature, fascinating places to explore, all the scrumptious food you could eat, and evil that can be defeated with love.As always, Elizabeth Goudge's writing takes my breath away, full of color and rich imagery and uncanny insights.
I only wish I had read this book when I was ten or twelve and that it had been one of those books that shaped my childhood.
I reread this book a few years ago (after J.K. Rowling spoke of it as her one childhood favorite) and loved it. I'm eager to see what they do with the movie. I haven't heard of any kids today reading it and am afraid, frankly, to give it to any. Feels a bit of its time somehow. But I love it.
A sweet tale, and enjoyable enough to read, but so much of the story unnecessarily focuses on how important it is for women not to be curious.
She has to uncover the town's secrets - and those of its inhabitants - while all the time remembering not to be too curious in her pursuit of this information.
She is routinely rewarded for not asking questions or going exploring on her own by being handed the piece of information she was waiting for in the next scene.Everything in this book happens so much in Maria's favor that there isn't really any plot tension.
I'm sorry I didn't run into this one sooner in my reading life, it's a sweet, perfectly balanced adventure for the young and imaginative, and is overloaded with all the best things one thinks of when one thinks of England.
I wonder if Devon is even half as enchanting in real life as it is portrayed in this book!!!
I hope others will be encouraged to find a copy of this delightful tale, and read to themselves, to their family, or to the dog, because this one deserves to be savored slowly, and perhaps more than once.
OMG I am so glad to finally find this book! This was my favorite of favorites in childhood, and I've been looking for this, not remembering the title. It's about a girl moving to this old castle or something . . . where there is a harpsichord . . . and a unicorn in the nearby woods . . . and men who seem scary and bad but not really. Make sense? What was it called? Google couldn't help . . . Hey, GR just "suggested" it to me!Got to reread this sometime soon.
This book is the best. Everyone should read it. It's just so sweet and magical. :)
Seventh book of the twenty-four hour readathon.
Gosh, I'm sleepy.The Little White Horse is a little fairytale, really.
I remember a friend in first year recommendng it to me over and over again, so I had quite high hopes, but I don't think it's really that special.
Everything is very predictable, and often slightly silly -- mistaking a lion for a dog, really?
It's kind of sweet, at times, but it edges into too sweet.
I'd have liked more of a sense of risk, and for things to come a bit less easily.
my older sister (nerd) gave me this book for christmas one year. i was not open enough to know how amazing it was, but when i did find out how amazing it is, i now read EVERY book she gives me. she is a genius, this book is phenomenal! so beautiful i only mourn i cannot crawl into the world created here.
Continuing my December policy of reading books that have been on my TBR shelves forever, I picked up "The Little White Horse" by Elizabeth Goudge.
This one was one of my wife's books that she brought to the marriage 25 years ago and judging by the cover would be a young adult fantasy novel that would appeal to girls.
My impressions were correct in that I think it would appeal to young teenage girls, mostly due to the protagonist being a 13 year old inquisitive orphan girl who moves from London to a beautiful castle in England's West Country of a century ago.
One of the things that I loved about the book was the choice of the optimistic, bright, kind character, who definitely made the story more magical than it would actually have been.
The story is full of mystical creatures like Wrolf and Serena, who have greater roles to play in the story, and also some eccentric characters with quirky names like Marmaduke Scarlet.It is easy to see why Ms. Rowling would have loved this book and may somewhere have also been inspired by it (As she never mentions it explicitly anywhere, but we know how elements from our favourite books and stories just seep into our writing.) Possible inspirations could be similarity to the Gryffindor rooms in the tower; very like Marias room was warm and cozy, made perfectly for her.
Ignoring the medieval nature of the setting, all in all, this book was a magical read!
Throw the essence of those authors together and you have a recipe for a lovely, good-humored, fantasy-frothed (yet not unsubstantial) Goudge novel, like this one.The adult reader will be as charmed with The Little White Horse as the child reader is, although the novel is clearly written with child readers in mind: in case you can't figure out each mystery, large and small, that creeps up along the way, Goudge spells everything out for you.
One did not hurry in the country.""It was best to see it [the sea] first of all like this, at a far distance.
But not everything is as happy as it seems - something evil lurks in the dark woods north of Moonacre Manor and Maria is the only one who can stop it.This book has a lot going for it and some things I didn't like at all.Let's start with the good:- The descriptions of the food, clothes and interior designs!
Loveday is a little too perfect but kept from being totally so by her past mistakes and present pride.The scene where Maria and Robin confront the wicked men in their castle feels really weak and fake.
The ending with their leader is rather anticlimactic, and shows that Maria's struggles aren't really with these men at all, but with setting matters to Silverydew to rights and restoring order to Moonacre.It is a very enchanting book, however.
Goudge has an acute sense of small details that bring me right into the story and thrill me, such as the descriptions of Moonacre.
Oh, the love I have for this book.Having misplaced my well-worn paperback years ago, I decided this year to buy another copy and give this children’s classic a reread.
Details that I remembered from reading the book as a child were made even more vivid; Goudge’s knack for lovely description is so clear in this tale, as is her genuine skill at making a children’s book simple in style but engaging for all ages.
and, indeed, a "comfort read" well into adulthood.
Pride, mischief and obstinancy are the besetting sins, and the young heroine (Maria) has to undo several generations of misunderstanding in order to bring peace and happiness to Moonacre.I would thoroughly recommend this book for a read-aloud, especially for girls.
We are going to be reading it for the Book Club that I am doing for 11 year olds this year.
While the plot is interesting, there were so many annoying points that it made it hard to truly enjoy the story as much as I could have.1.
The main character is annoying.
The animals are the smartest and most entertaining characters in the whole book and yet are given little or no personality.4.
However, King Henry VIII over saw the disolution of the monasteries because they weren't holy men at all since the Catholic church was false.
So it just didn't make sense to me.I can see how, with a little tweaking, this would make a fantastic movie.
I tracked it down for my Kindle and really loved every moment of it.Set in 1842, thirteen year old Maria Merryweather travels with her governess, Miss Heliotrope, and her self-absorbed Cavalier King Charles Spaniel, Wiggins, by carriage to live with her uncle after the death of her father.
A little vain and preoccupied with beautiful clothing and the elegance of the London life they have led, she is less than thrilled at the thought of a more rustic future.
What she discovers is the most beautiful, magical and wonderfully described little kingdom.
I am surprised this book isn't more popular - I found it every bit as enchanting as The Secret Garden.
Three stars is rare for me and I feel at odds to provide such a low rate compared to my standard.
For taking place in the 1800's it shed a lot of light on female power which was not readily accepted or commonplace for the time at hand which was intriguing to read.
The reason for the seemingly low rate is simply that the story didn't resonate with me as others tend to do.
This makes perfect sense as the main characters are under or around age 13 and it takes place some 100+ years ago in the past ;-)Nevertheless it was entertaining, verbose, and pure as far as story's go.
A children's book about an orphan, Maria Merryweather, sent off into a countryside valley, with her governess and her pet dog.Her guardian makes her welcome and talks about the moon Merryweathers, such as Maria, and the sun ones, such as himself.She finds a world of marvelous quirks and oddities, and also a tragic backstory, and a good deal of what is clearly magic, however lightly laid on.
There are the Men from the Dark Wood, a necklace of pearls that vanished, a tawny dog, a wedding gown a woman never wore because she married someone else, books of poems and more.
*This month’s Jolly Girls Book Club read!*I had so much fun reading this delightful, happy fairytale for our book club this month! Written in the 1940's by Elizabeth Goudge, you won't find a modern tale anything like it. It has decent, good, kind, caring characters, and quite a bit of God and religion, Gasp*! I found the message of forgiveness and of the hope for something better inspiring, and the heroine strong and good. It is a book you want your little girls to read! And don't forget the descriptions of delectable foods throughout, come prepared with some munchies :)
