https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/559758.Queenie
When reading reviews and comments by my friends, I'm constantly reminded of books I've read and loved before there was a goodreads.
She uses her intelligence and beauty to become a bona fide movie star mainly by marrying a charismatic director and their union is as enchanting and riveting as any movie.
She managed to marry Alexander Korda, one of England's greatest producers and directors.
The author, Michael Korda is the nephew of Alexander Korda and had a front row seat in the making of Ms. Oberon's career.
Michael Korda is an author of books I have always enjoyed.
During the heydays of the ‘80s soaps, publishing firms... http://sleaze-factor.blogspot.ca/2016...
To tell you the truth, I haven't finished reading this book, but I'm planning on it.My older review:I LOVE LOVE LOVE this book, the story is very rare and amazing, I have seen the movie zillion of times with mom, starring Kirk Douglas and Mia Sara, it is a story about Merle Oberon, a spectacularly beautiful half-caste, rose from the slums of Calcutta hoping to the heights of Hollywood/London stardom in the 1930's.
When the producer dies the day of the film premier, she and Lucien are reunited.
Once a few years ago in a moment of contention my husband blurted out that I was "such a princess" to which I replied, "No, Queen."Anyhow, as these things go with married couples some things that were once angry become funny and reappear from time to time.
The child, Queenie, is gorgeous.
Surely Morgan can find a way to get them "home", as in England where Queenie thinks all of her problems will be solved.
Queenie insists that Morgan steal from a wealthy English woman whom he beds on occasion so that they will have the required funds to bolt.This tale is twists and turns with all that happens in England and then to America.
This was another book that I loved when i was younger.
I still have the Dutch copy.
Might tell my daughter to give it a try.
She loved Lace by Shirley Conran.
(I did too)Back in the days I loved reading books like this.
Judith Kranz,Jacqueline Susann, Jackie Collins and Harold Robbins come to mind.
That is what is great about goodreads.
You click one book and then you see other books which reminds you you have read those as well.Well if you are not easily offended by sex scenes and you want to read something light, this is the book.Not sure when I read this.
tried reading this book years ago and didn't like it. got a copy recently and decided to give it another go. loved it this time around!! Queenie Kelly leaves the slums of Calcutta to become Dawn Avalon a film star in hollywood just before the war. loved this so much and liked Queenie who was prepared to do anything to become famous.
I read this book a long time ago, but the story has stuck with me and I keep looking for it so I can re-read it. It is both tragic and joyous and paints a very realistic picture of the "dark side" of fame.
The book cover has "all time favourite" theme to the historical romance novel. I give this book 5 stars.
love this book very nice and well written , i cud not stop reading till the end once i began
Η ζωή της μικρής, όμορφης, υπολογίστριας Κουίνι ξεκινάει στην Ινδία, κάνει μια στάση στην Αγγλία και τελειώνει στην Αμερική, μέσα στα διαμάντια και στα μπριλάντια.
Εξωτική σαπουνόπερα, η οποία εν μέρει αποδίδει τη ζωή της ηθοποιού Merle Oberon και αυτό είναι ένα ενδιαφέρον σημείο στο βιβλίο.
Εκείνο που θα θυμάμαι από το βιβλίο (διότι όλα τα άλλα σύντομα θα καλυφθούν από τη λήθη) είναι το εξής.Η Κουίνι έχει πλέον μεγαλώσει, έχει πρακτικά αποσυρθεί στη βίλα της με τον κατά πολύ νεώτερο άντρα της (νούμερο 3 νομίζω) αλλά αναγκάζεται να ξεμυτίσει για μια δημόσια εμφάνιση προκειμένου να παραλάβει ένα βραβείο.
I first read QUEENIE when it was published in 1985, and remember it as a juicy, hard-to-put-down roman a clef about Hollywood's legendary Merle Oberon.
All the author did was change the names!Michael Korda knew his subjet well - by virtue of her marriage to his uncle, film producer Sir Alexander Korda, Oberon was for a time the author's aunt.And with its pedigree, why shouldn't it be a juicy, hard-to-put-down book?
I enjoyed this, though it certainly had a bit of 80s camp about it--even though it was about colonial India, 30s London, and 40s Hollywood! I got interested in this after reading Korda's memoir about being an editor, and it is based on his aunt Merle Oberman, who I saw in part of a movie once. Anyway, not great literature, but a fast and entertaining, if not a little guilt-inducing, read, especially for 632 pages!
I really enjoyed this book, from the start to the finish. I was drawn in right from the start and even though there were many characters, which I do not like in books, I did not have a hard time keeping them all straight. If you are looking for a happy go lucky book, than this is not the book for you.
I absolutely LOVED this book ... this was one that I couldn't put down!!! I just recently came across another Michael Korda book that I'm going to read ... I hope it is written as well as Queenie was!!!
Michael Korda doesn't know how to write for a woman. Queenie is a hollow shell of a character that fails to impress throughout the entire book. It's a droll journey through mediocrity that fails to live up to the stories potential.
Read this book when I was about 12 (not many books available where I grew up) and found it fascinating and inspiring. It made an impression on me that has stayed with me throughout my teenage and adulthood.
A mysterious childhood in India, career of fame and fortune, and hints of story links to a real movie star's life combined to make this a very satisfying read. I saw the TV movie years ago and, naturally, the book was better.
Great escapism!
I had absolutely no idea that the author had based this book on his aunt, Merle Oberon. You learn something everyday!
pending review
Even though the story line has been done a million times this one was a good read & kept me interested
An interesting roman a clef of the life of his once Aunt, Merle Oberon.
Didn't finish it. Returned to library. Felt like I was deliberately trashing my mind! Lol Good riddance.
I read Queenie in the late 80's, and then again in the late 90's, and found it fascinating, both times...
The story moves slowly like an old movie.
Huh, sainpas vihdoin luettua. Tuntui, ettei tämä lopu koskaan. Aikamoista jaarittelua ja kiinnostavia tapahtumia vain harvakseltaan. Ei nyt oikein uponnut, vaikka sinnikkäästi loppuun asti luin.
Did not like this book, too long and to hard to get into.
One of my favs!
Good!
What I think? sheesh this took foevaaaaa. Left it aside after I got about 1/3 through the book. Picked it up about a year later and finally finished it one summer.
