https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7991200-angel
Bollywood has a special genre of movies called 'Masala movies'. Masala, in case you're wondering, is a powdered mixture of spices to add flavour to Indian cuisine. Masala movies, on the same note, are a mixture of dramatic elements designed to appeal to the senses. STEP 1: Boy Meets Girl Boy and girl bump into each other/ meet at a wedding/ are introduced by friends and there is an instant 'connection' which will, of course, soon lead to true lurrve. STEP 2: Girl Plays Coy The path of true lurr
The path of true lurrve is never smooth, so of course, our hero and/or heroine hate each other on sight.
What good is a Bollywood movie without a song?!!
Of course, since the heroine must face the death at the hands of the bad guy, it is her duty to face her fate bravely, and just as bravely entreat the hero to save himself and not some after her (subtext: if you don't come after me, you bastard, I'll rise from the grave and cut your balls off).
Now, on to the review:Angel Burn would make SUCH a FABULOUS masala movie!
I realise it was probably a mistake to read another angel book so soon after finishing Angelfall, but it was amongst the gushing reviews and comments on the aforementioned that I read about these two books sharing a similar theme. This theme being that, rather than having pretty, sparkly, heaven-sent angels, the authors used the more traditional, violent creatures who have come to earth in order to take over. However, this is where the similarities between the two novels end.Angel Burn has a mu
I realise it was probably a mistake to read another angel book so soon after finishing Angelfall, but it was amongst the gushing reviews and comments on the aforementioned that I read about these two books sharing a similar theme.
However, this is where the similarities between the two novels end.Angel Burn has a much heavier focus on romance.
Surely myself and Penryn cannot be the only ones to prefer survival?Naturally, they are already eternally, unconditionally in love by the novel's half-way marker.
Way too much of this rather large book was about the romance.
Willow is a clairvoyant who sees flashes of the future for anyone she touches, and is horrified by a disturbing vision she sees while doing a reading for a classmate.
Throughout most of the book, they are on the run and alone in the car, so it's a testament to the writer that the reader remains engrossed in the mounting tension of the story as well as the slow burn of a relationship between the unlikely pair.
Angel Burn is a terrific page-turner with unforgettable characters, and readers will be on the edge of their seats waiting its sequels.This review also appears in The Midnight Garden.
So, my thoughts during and after reading Angel Burn:Ahem...- Weatherly is not a bad writer.
It was a small world trying to seem big.
A small war trying to seem all-ending.
I felt like she sat down and used up any standing information she had about angel lore and, somehow, managed to compose an entire novel.
Angel Killers?
(Omigod, okay so this one, I was like "watch AK stand for Angel Killers, haha!
Willow knowing hot things about cars?
- Willow and Alex really liked to talk about how much they love each other.
Like, over and over again.
But whereas YA books usually bore me with the endless descriptions of everyday high school life, this one took a different approach, much more to my liking: that of a road-trip.Willow has always been psychic and has the ability to see glimpses of the future.
When Willow herself goes to the Church for a last attempt to stop Heather she sees more angels feeding off humans, leaving them drained and weak.
When Alex, who's the assassin, meets Willow, he realizes that something is very wrong with this mission and decides to watch her a while before actually killing her.
The half angel and her assassin. Willow and Alex are two remarkable and unique characters that I absolutely loved reading about. Short book but worth the read.
Last year it seemed I was having the worst run with angel themed books.
The mythology though is easy to understand and comes together well as the story is explained and is quite interesting.Angel alternates from both Willow's and Alex's points of views and smoothly changes from one to the other.
Their romance builds slowly at first but then turns into that epic type of love.
Very mushy but in a good way.Overall, this was fantastic start to this trilogy and I can't wait for more!Bookers Warning: Some of you lovely ladies at SCB may find the romance in this book too mushy for your taste.
This brilliant, action packed page turner will have you on the edge of your seat craving for more!!
This is a MUST READ for 2011!!!This story is about a girl named Willow, who isn’t the typical high school student from Pawtucket, a sleepy little town crouched in the foothills of the Adirondack Mountains.
Willow has always been able to read people by touching them and by doing so she can see into their future.
The story starts off with a classmate of Willow’s wanting a reading.
Willow was feeling a little apprehensive because she had a bad feeling about it.
Terrible.
Simply terrible.
The switching view points was the worst especially since one of them was annoying as heck.
I probably would have finished it if it was just written in Alex's perspective.
There needs to be more books from a guys perspective.
x_xWorst of all, 30 pages in and there wasn't even a hint at a plot!
I'd imagine to meet some sort of archvillain or at least hear of one by this point...Anyways, I wouldn't recommend it at all.
It was boring and it was horrible to get through the 30 pages I did.Never.
The story does descend into gooey teenage love about 2/3 of the way in, but at least the author let Willow and Alex spend time together and get to know each other first.While I'm not sure why these creatures are called angels (they're certainly not angelic in the traditional sense and don't seem to come from Heaven) they were the perfect villains--sufficiently creepy and evil.
The mythology is developed enough to make sense, and it's definitely unique.I'm happy to say that with its original mythology, likeable main characters, and simmering romance, Angel Burn far surpasses many of its angel book competitors.
I thought this book was perfect and I loved it.Whimsical Writing Scale: 5The main female character is Willow.
He’s very protective of Willow and I can’t wait to see where their relationship goes.Swoon Worthy Scale: 4.75The Villain- The Angels, but if we want a specific villain let’s say Raziel.
I liked Jonah and I have a feeling he’s going to be a big help in defeating the angels in the next books.
I like Jonah, but I hope he doesn’t become a love interest for Willow.
TBR Reduce Challenge #15- 2011 (Stefanie) I've read a lot of Angel books and sometimes I find ones that has a different take on the traditional lore. But, Angel is probably the most unique of them all, and while I'm not use to seeing angels as the bad guys, being hunted, I still think this was an excellent concept. Mix it with suspense, grip and forbidden love and how could I resist?Fresh, smart and fantastic! Can't wait to read the next book; Angel Fire!
Another decent angel book! Hell must be freezing over! Lol.
and when i mean a great couple i really mean it!I like that that they started completely hating each other but slowly and slowly getting to know each other and to fall in love with other (not out of the blue like in some other books goes)I pretty much like Willow the character how she become in love with Alex but the basic thing is i Loved how strong and confident she was when she had to do ...
I bought this book from the Book Depo, since it's been released in the UK for several months now, but I didn't actually read the story until I had a copy of the US galley in hand.
Though they both are beautiful.Angel Burn is unlike any angel themed story I've read.
These angels have touched their lives in the most positive way.
I got the hang of it after a while though.The ending was a little abrupt, I felt like we were leading up to this big showdown...
and for me it was a little bang and sizzle...
Your cells can become cancerous, you might develop conditions such as multiple sclerosis, and there's also the potential for - like Willow's mother - schizophrenia.Considering how often it's implied how different Willow is to her peers at the beginning of the book, interspersed with Alex sort of building the world of the angels as threatening figures, it wasn't much of a stretch at all when Willow's mother was introduced to put two and two together.
I mean, sure, Willow heads to that Angel church because this girl she did a psychic reading for early in the story ran off to them and now wants nothing to do with the world she left behind.
It left me completely and utterly speechless and the book I read afterwards I couldn't even concentrate on as all I could think about was this story.Willow is half-angel, she has always had these powers that she has never understood or known why.
Going on the run together both must cope with being together at all times, but will the two of them be able to fight their growing feelings for the other when they are supposed to hate each other?I instantly fell in love with this book and the story.
I think I prefer the UK cover to the US one but they both have their positives, I guess.I’m a bit wary of angel books because they can either be exceptionally good, Unearthly, or absolutely terrible, Hush, Hush.
I got tired of them just stopping over at random places and changing cars.
But it did keep the pace up, so while I didn’t like it, I’m quite sure a lot of other people would love this part.The writing reminded me of an adventure book.
The majority of the book consisted of pov changes between Alex and Willow, which were actually done pretty well.
2.5 STARS Though truth be told, coming in, I did have some high expectations seeing as I've read the better angel books ahead of reading this. Angel Burn  has quite the interesting twist in the angels sub-genre in that instead of having the usual religious backstory, angels are featured as beautiful, alien-like beings who come from a dying world and has come to our own using humans as sort of energy sources much like parasites. Shades of The Matrix' mythology now that I think about it. The tit
When Willow warns Beth of the truth behind this "encounter" her life is placed in danger while she becomes fully aware on what her abilities are borne from.This had all the right ingredients: a strong heroine, the hero is an Angel Killer who spent half the time in the book shirtless (!), a road trip set in the desert (!!) and a solid story setting to back it all up.
The book focused and failed a great deal on the romance between Alex and Willow but I have a feeling it would've fared better if this aspect of the story was kept to the background and the Angel Invasion was brought to the fore.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I think given enough time and with the second book I will be able to buy this concept but right now I am just lost because I really liked the story.
The story focused more on the will Alex get to Willow in time instead of will this plan actually work and save the day.
So I am getting off my soapbox and I am just going to say that I totally bought the romance and I loved every minute of it.I think fans of YA will adore this book and I have a feeling that my problems with the angel concept are just my own.
At first glance, a lot of people would be turned off by what seems to be a cheesy, somewhat overdone plot line and a predictable romantic premise.
The author breathes life and motivations into Alex, the male lead.
Similarly, I liked reading about Willow.
And while reading that phrase makes me giggle, (hide spoiler)] that I still liked Willow is a testament to how well she was characterized.
The threat that angels pose to mankind made me treasure Willow's and Alex's love more.
This is the first YA book where most of the action takes place on the road.
Then the arse-kicking angel killer Alex enters the picture and her individualism melts into oblivion.
I got my slow build, all right.
Unfortunately, once the build was built, I was attacked by an army of gushy internal monologues about how much Willow loves Alex and how nothing else matters at all and how the world as we know it will burst into flames without him.
I can't lie to you guys, I skimmed through several pages of Willow talking to herself about how she's going to make it without Alex.
Willow has done something to upset the angels and now they want her dead, and Alex finds himself protecting Willow and falling for her.Sometimes the plot or synopsis make the book sound better than it is but not this one: the synopsis hooked me in and then from page one I was gone, could not put this book down, finished in a day.
It has been awhile since I read a book that I was completely absorbed in!
This book will be released in May 2011 and I guarentee that it is one for anyone whom loves the YA genre to look out for.
Their worlds collide when Alex is given an order to kill Willow.
While Alex struggles with befriending a creature that killed everyone he has ever loved, Willow has her own struggles with becoming comfortable with who she is.
Their mission is to bring down the angels, and both stay alive in the process.I am already looking forward to the next book in this series, Angel Fire.
This story is not about angels, it is not about saving the world; it is about two teenagers who fall in love at first sight.
I thought this book was going to be good but it wasn't, a quite long book that focused almost entirely on the relationship aspect of the novel, ignoring the plot to serve their relationship.
The Angels themselves while mostly despicable were not good villians; if our planet was dying and we needed to feed off of inteligent lifeforms I know we'd do the same.
If their own world wasn't dying I would have felt less sympathy for them; especially the ones that aren't bad.
And I forgot I don't like angel books.
Tough guy kills an angel.
Girl, who likes vintage clothes and fixing cars in parking lots, gives a popular girl a psychic reading.Psychic Girl: Angels are evil.
I better go join a cult and tell my angel about you.Popular girl's angel shows up at psychic's house.
OH NOZ.Tough guy gets instruction to kill another angel.
Tough guy kills the offending angel and they drive away together into the sunset.....Wait, we're not done yet.
Tough guy tells psychic she's HALF ANGEL, even though THAT'S IMPOSSIBLE.
(TOTALLY BELIEVABLE!)Half Angel: Okay.
Tough guy knocks evil angel out.
Forced into a life of hunting Angels by his father after an Angel killed his mother (see the resemblances here...!) he finds himself isolated and alone after the CIA take over the operation and force all the Angel Killers to work individually.You see, in this book, Angels are aliens from another dimension who feed on humans life-force, leaving them with "Angel-burn", which is the facination and adoration of these creepy etherial beings, plus the suseptibility to mental degeneration and a whole host of other diseases.
It takes Willow almost 3/4 of the book to come to terms with her Angel, infact Alex, who has seen most of his family die via Angels, accepts it quicker!
(Sort of like Glory in Buffy, Season Five.) It’s called “angel burn”, and though the people burned by angels get sick and eventually die, they believe they’ve had a beautiful, transcendent religious experience, which has caused them to band together and create the Church of Angels, a creepy new religious movement that is basically taking over the world.
That’s kind of a cool notion, if the angels in the Bible and so on were actually aliens, controlling humanity even way back when, but it’s not one really supported by the book.
I have never come across another character quite like John Connor in literature.
Willow is a tomboy, psychic who has always taken care of the people she loves.The two come together through a manipulation of the angels, the unseen enemies poised to destroy humanity.
Alex and Willow must join forces to fight them, or all humanity will be lost to the insatiable hunger of thousands of angels.
Willow is set up as the John Connor of her world with Alex as her Arnold (a.k.a. the GOOD Terminator).
Then, Willow gets stuck wearing heels for the mega, take-out the angels plan.
Ordinary mortals yearn to catch a glimpse of one of these stunning beings and thousands flock to The Church of Angels to feel their healing touch.But what if their potent magnetism isn't what it seems?Willow knows she's different from other girls.
He knows Willow's secret and is on a mission to stop her.The dark forces within Willow make her dangerous – and irresistible.In spite of himself, Alex finds he is falling in love with his sworn enemy.*May contain spoilers*Angel is a Fantastic book for people who enjoy forbidden love novels.
