https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/819414.Elizabeth_Captive_Princess
Characters such as Lady Jane and Queen Mary's minds are probes here with the same consummate skill that the author does for Elizabeth during these times.
Following up “Young Bess”, Irwin’s second novel focuses on Elizabeth’s tumultuous years when Jane Grey and Elizabeth’s half-sister Queen Mary were holding the crown in, “Elizabeth, Captive Princess”.
Readers familiar with Irwin’s novels will find much of the same stylistic attributes in “Elizabeth, Captive Princess” along with some disappointing surprises.
Although this can deter new readers; those having read other Irwin novels and/or “Young Bess” will not be too thrown by this.Logically, “Elizabeth, Captive Princess” quickens a bit in pace and plot when the Wyatt Rebellion comes into play and Elizabeth enters the tower.
Now, it is between Mary and Elizabeth.
Elizabeth knows she will be a better Queen than Mary.
Of course, Mary does becomes Queen.
Will she succeed?Elizabeth, Captive Princess is book two in the Elizabeth I trilogy.
I read the first book, Young Bess because I was interested in getting to know Elizabeth better.
A lot of the books about the Tudors is about King Henry VIII, his wife Anne, his daughter Mary and his son, Edward but there are not a lot of books about Elizabeth.
Elizabeth, Captive Princess is a book fit for a Princess or Queen.
This is a complex book that delves in to more than the superficial facts of the years of Queen Mary's reign.
The imaginings of the pressures put upon the young Elizabeth Tudor by both the Court, the People and Herself are well executed and are doubtless based on extensive research of contemporary reports and documents.My issues with this book were that it seemed to got lost in iot's own web of intrigue and language.
However, in this book the obfuscation of Elizabeth seeps too earnestly on to the page and left me re-reading some passages several times to try and discern their meaning and how they would affect the outcome.
This book, which is fictional, follows Elizabeth from the death of Edward VI through the 9-day reign of Lady Jane Grey to the crowning of Mary and the arrival of Philip of Spain to London.
During that time, Elizabeth has to avoid favouring any groups which have ambitions of putting their favourite on the throne.
She knows that if she does, she will suffer the same fate as her mother, Anne Boleyn.
In the course of this book she is captured by Mary's followers and imprisoned in the Tower of London.
This book is part of a series.
It was highly readable, and detailed concerning the interactions of Elizabeth's story with those of the Nine Days' Queen, Jane Grey, the Duke of Suffolk (Jane's father), and Bloody Mary herself.
She also does a great job of depicting the attitudes of the time regarding religion, gender roles, and politics, making a complicated subject much more understandable for the non-historian.
The author's admiration for Elizabeth I is a little too obvious, at times, but having read this middle book, I will now get hold of the other two parts of the trilogy and see how the rest of the story goes!
Although this isn't the best novelisation of Queen Elizabeth I that I have read, I still enjoyed this book which focused on her life between the reign of her younger brother, Edward VI, and her sister, Mary Tutor.
Even though it was obvious that Elizabeth, Captive Princess was well researched, at times I found the plot dragged a bit.
However, Ms Irwin brought Elizabeth alive and provided an interesting perspective of her in her younger life.
It is no wonder Elizabeth Tutor's reign is often referred to as the Golden Age.
Although initially published in the 1940's, this remains a remarkably modern telling of Elizabeth's stand-off (if you will) against Mary following the death of King Edward. It stands alone nicely, but I might appreciate it more if I read the book that came before and after this one. Completing the trilogy is on my list.
3.5
The second in the trilogy about Elizabeth I's life before she became Queen delivers masterly psychological insights into the hopes and fears of three remarkable women: Elizabeth, the politically astute fighter; her sister Mary, a valiant, determined but tragic figure; and Jane Grey, the studious, naive, devout Protestant a victim of her ambitious relatives.The story opens with 19 year old Elizabeth resisting attempts to lure her to court to see her dying brother, Edward VI.
This is the second in a trilogy written by Margaret Irwin about Elizabeth Tudor.In the beginning of this book King Edward dies and Lady Jane Grey is deposed after only nine days on the throne.
Most of this story takes place during her sister Mary Tudor's reign as Queen of England.Mary is doing what she can to get rid of the Protestant faith that was the religion of Henry VIII and that Elizabeth grew up with.
The country does not want Spain in control of England.
First Jane Grey is announced Queen as she is protestant while Elizabeth's sister, Princess Mary, the true heiress is a staunch Catholic.England rallies around Henry VIII's daughter, Mary and she is crowned.
Although at first, friendlywith her sister, an uprising casts suspicion onElizabeth and she finds herself Mary's prisoner.Mary proves a fanatic about her religion.
As Mary becomes ever more fanatic,the people turn to Elizabeth as their only hope and Mary'shold on her prisoner becomes ever tighter.In the Tower, Elizabeth comes to know and fall in live withRobert Dudley who will remain her life long favorite.
I didn't enjoy this book as much as I enjoyed the first of the trilogy.
I would have loved to read more about Elizabeth in the tower and her blossoming infatuation with Robert Dudley someone who ultimately tried to usurp her own claim to the throne through Jane Grey.I felt that the book didn't really bring across the real fear she must have felt at being her sisters prisoner seen as her mother was beheaded for treason.The book felt as though Elizabeth knew all along that she was destined to be Queen rather then spending any real time on her numerous illnesses which in my opinion were probably caused by the great stress of the situation.Mary's thoughts could have been more explored also.Final verdict: a read that didn't really add any further knowledge to the Tudor period for me and could have been padded out some more with some explanation for key players behavior.
After all, I did like Young Bess.Elizabeth's half-brother Edward is King, and has been sickly.
Such is the auspicious start to this next novel in Margaret Irwin's trilogy on Queen Elizabeth, which covers the period from Edward's death to Mary's ascension to the throne and marriage to Philip of Spain.I have never quite grasped all of the nicknames for the people revolving around Elizabeth, and had to actively remember who is whom.
Fans of historical fiction and Queen Elizabeth should pick this one up--as well as Young Bess, if you haven't read that yet.
I was very interested to find this book, second in a series, by Margaret Irwin -- first published in 1947.
I wanted to read this because it covers the years of Elizabeth's life from her brother Edward's death through the first few years of Mary's reign, and ending when Phillip of Spain arrives and ER I is let out of the tower.
The next book covers the years where supposedly she is between Philip and Mary, implying a triangle that I was not aware of.
I think the portrait of ER I here is interesting and portrays a young woman with hard won political skill gained by living in the roller coaster of her times.
Review - This was a very interesting interpretation of Elizabeth's time in the Tower of London after the nine days reign of Jane Grey.
It imagines the thoughts and feelings of Elizabeth after the death of her half-brother, Edward VI, and her thoughts on religion and how to overcome the difficulties besetting her, like clearing her path to the throne through her half-sister and controversy over religion.Genre?
- Historical / DramaCharacters?
- Elizabeth I / Mary I / Philip II of Spain / Jane Grey / Kat Ashley / Robert DudleySetting?
- London (England)Series?
- Elizabeth #2Recommend?
– YesRating - 15/20
Fantastic book!
I have the entire trilogy by Irwin on order and can't wait to get to 3rd book.
This time period is a mystery so I was very interested to find out who are the major players.
As a result of this book and other back reading I find myself in great admiration of E1.
The depictions of the English people's love for her are very moving as well.
As back story, I just found out the Phillip saved E1 so as to avoid Mary of Scots and her French alliances controlling England.
Duh!
The middle book in a Trilogy about Queen Elizabeth I when she was a princess. This book begins with Edward VI’s death, as Elizabeth is summoned to his side with the story moving through Jane Grey’s short reign and subsequent imprisonment and execution, and then Elizabeth's own captivity.Though I know the history well enough to follow the characters and story, I would recommend beginning with the first book in the Trilogy, Young Bess.
Irwin captures Elizabeth as a young girl. We see her as the woman she is about to become. She is politically aware. The book opens when Edward becomes king through the regency of the Duke of Somerset and John Dudley's regencies' through Jane Grey's nine day reign and Mary's reign and ends with Mary's proposed marriage to Philip of Spain. Mary is depicted not as bloody Mary but as a sad old maid and extremely jealous of Elizabeth.
This was much like the first one, only even more confusing because it's unclear what actually happens, except that Mary takes the throne. Elizabeth was not particularly likable in the first book and she's not likable now; there's also a confusing overlap in time between the end of the first book and the beginning of the second book. If the first chapter was a prologue, it would be understandable. Since it's not, it isn't.This is a long, dragging read. I wouldn't recommend it.
This is good, don't get me wrong, it just suffers in comparison to Young Bess because there is a severe lack of dashing Tom Seymour. Though, there is an entrance of dashing Robert Dudley which makes up for it. And also neatly highlights how much older, and wiser and more constrained Elizabeth is becoming. The teenage spark and adoration for Seymour is reworked into her awareness of how dangerous love is.
The time period of this novel is fascinating and I do really love the titles in this series. Although the writing from Margaret Irwin is not quite my cup of tea, I felt there was a lot of speaking with out saying anything, but for some they might love it. I definitely would give her another chance, but would not quite call it a favorite.*Thanks to Sourcebooks, Inc for providing a copy for review.*
This was a book that I received when I was about 12 (a long time ago) and kept to reread. It was one of the first books that I read about Elizabeth Tudor and contributed to my fascination with her. It isn't really a long book, and it covers a brief period after her brother Edward has died, and Mary has become Queen. Of course, most of the dialogue is fiction, but the action is historical.
Second in this vivid, beautifully written trilogy about Elizabeth I of England. Imprisoned in the Tower, charting a dangerous course through the shifting political alliances at the court of her half-sister Mary, will Elizabeth survive to claim the crown?Review: http://www.carlanayland.org/reviews/e...
Yup, reading through the trilogy. One book to go. Writing is still good- it makes me sad to see Elizabeth getting colder and harder. I suppose it's a trade for her overwhelming desire to rule England. Still enjoying the series and planning to read the last book.
This was the second book of the trilogy and was just as good as the first. Elizabeth is waiting to inherit the throne, but is constantly in fear that she could be taken off to the tower at any time depending on the whim of those around her.
Was decent, but did not reach it's full potential. The book was hindered by an indecision in who was the main character. It ought to have been Elizabeth, but her stage time was stolen by too many other secondary characters.
Really 4.5 stars.
This book included some interesting Historical information about Queen Elizabeth I. It was written in 1948 so it didn't flow like the current historical fiction.
Good book
