https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1466455.Three_Wishes
I love when the books I read contain little tid bits of pop culture references that I can relate to and really bond with.
The Kettle triplets jumping around to this song with abandoned pleasure made me smile.
I smiled all the way through with this Aussie story.
All the characters were quirky and real, the story line funny, and every step of the way was completely engaging.
‘About time.’ ‘He’s just surprised, poor Dad’, said Gemma, who had always suffered from excessive empathy.
The little stories she told at the event I attended I can relate back to all her work and enjoy knowing that little bit more.
( Originally published in 2003)I had heard so much about Liane Moriarty I put several of her books on hold at the library a little while back.
I suppose it was partly the lopsided way things turned out, with poor Cat getting a raw deal all the way around, and around, and around, while her sisters toy with and flirt with fate and suffer little or no consequences.
Overall, I was a little bummed out over this one, but I’m still a big fan and still feel very excited about catching up with all of Ms. Moriarty's backlisted titles and about reading the new book!
2.5 starsMy least favorite of the authors books. Three 33 year old twin sisters and their dramas with husbands, boyfriends, children, parents, and each other. It was like reading a three ring circus. Perhaps I would have enjoyed it in my own thirties when I was still drinking cosmopolitans. Perhaps a warning on the cover: Not for mature audiences; reader discretion is advised.
This is a really enjoyable and totally engaging book written in the author's customary style. Chapters are preceded by little anecdotes from strangers who view the main characters antics as outsiders. And then we get to meet all those lovely characters and, whether we love them or dislike them, discovering what happens to them becomes compulsive reading. If you enjoyed Big Little Lies then you will enjoy this too. I guess it does fall into the genre of Chick Lit but it is very good quality Chick Lit:)
This is the story of the Kettle sisters, Gemma, Lyn and Cat, 33-years old triplets (two are identical twins) and a look at their lives at a pivotal moment in time.
It's told in each of their voices, transitioning from past to present as they each face a critical issue.
The dynamics of how they interact with each other is also an important aspect of their story.
The transitions to the past were timely as they aptly provided context for the three women's present characterizations.
Otherwise, I thought the narrator perfectly captured the characters and I could always distinguish the three women.
Things I generally try to avoid in my reading (aka why I generally don't read adult fiction/Very Serious Literature):-Pregnancy-Infidelity-Infertility-DivorceThings this book prominently contains:-Pregnancy-Infidelity-Infertility-DivorceAnd yet, a five star rating. 'Nuff said.
I’ve heard her output described as chic lit, but but this feels like a diminishment of what are uniformly snappy, funny and often hard hitting stories.
I know from experience that she’s likely to spring a surprise or two and, in truth, I had no idea what events would unfold in order to bring me to the fateful night.I listened to this on audio, as I have all of her books, read by the wonderful Caroline Lee. She brings the whole thing alive with huge energy and aplomb, the only minor slip up being the imposition of a Geordie accent on a Mancunian.
A stong 4 out of 5.Another funny, drama-filled, soap opera like, juuuuicy novel from Liane Moriarty and it's crept in my favourites from her.The story follows three triplet sisters, in their thirties, who all have very different personalities and outlooks on life and explores how their complex relationships with each other withstand all the dramas that life throws at them.
Spoiler alert: a lot.Despite all their dramas and some dark themes being explored, the author is SO good at still creating humour, and I laughed throughout this entire novel.Reviews can be found at: www.booknerdtan.wordpress.comI think what makes me love Liane Moriarty's storytelling is the sheer honesty with which she describes her characters and their inner thoughts.
Definitely not my favorite Liane Moriarty.This book follows a similar format as her other books with the book opening with a dramatic and very public argument in a restaurant as they celebrate their 33rd birthday together.
The book then goes back to the events leading up to the big blowout to provide some context.Having read quite a few Liane Moriarty the twists and turns in this book were predictable, and I felt like this is one of my least favorite of her books due to the ending.
Moriarty is usually great at tying up all the loose ends at the end, but this one is left open ended which I didn't enjoy as much.
I kept seeing Liane's name about the place, then was drawn to reading her debut tome as it's about triplet sisters and I'm preggers with twins.
I particularly loved the quirky, dreamy triplet Gemma - the other two, Cat and Lyn, were a bit harder around the edges, but very realistically painted.The book touched on some heavy issues, from miscarriage to domestic abuse, without losing its overall light, cheery tone.My only tiny niggle was that there were often flashbacks or time-jumps right when something big and dramatic happened and you wanted to see what would unfold next.
A must, MUST read!
The story about the Kettle triplets over the course of their thirty-third year.
Cat, Gemma and Lyn Kettle are a strange sight when they are together and their lives take turns over the next year that no one could foresee.
Right from the beginning I was hooked as the book opens to the sisters celebrating their Thirty-fourth birthday.
The story then jumps back to the previous year and all that has happened in the fascinating triplets lives.
I found the interaction between the three girls and the other characters in the story very entertaining.
The characters are well developed and very believable.
The book opens with a crazy dinner sequence where the sisters are together for their birthday, one is pregnant and one stabs the pregnant one in the belly with a fork!...
This book was crazy and fun.
As the book progresses, the story continues to twist and twist.
What a fun family-- "Stop being a ham sandwich" - I laughed and found this to be the perfect light hearted read with enough depth to throw a conciliatory arm around around their shoulders to say "We've all been there".
Just a quirky, fun story about an lovable family with a full cast of characters.
I didn't expect to enjoy it as much as her more popular Big Little Lies, but I did.It may not be literary fiction, but Moriarty can write characters incredibly well.
It goes without saying that being about triplet sisters made things even more interesting as most of us are intrigued by twins, triplets and so on.
Moriarty masterfully interspersed bystanders' povs with the sisters'.
It works really well to convey the plot and, especially, the characters' many layers.
This is a novel about family, relationships, sibling relationships that can be intense, vicious at times, but also so loving and all consuming, as only relationships between women can be.4.5 starsThis novel goes towards my Aussie Authors Challenge 2018 on www.bookloverbookreviews.com
The characters the dialogue and the quirky situations make me wish I could jump right into this book and into their lives, such fun spirited characters, the story revolves around triplet sisters, they have a heathly or is that unhealthy?
dependence on each other bordering on a love/hate relationship that brings the most bizarre and fun encounters which, having this book set in Sydney and surrounding suburbs makes it that much better, feeling ever so familiar.
Four fun stars!
I normally love books by Liane Moriarty, and while Three Wishes was a fun and interesting book, it doesn't exactly hold up to the expectations I have for this author.
I really particularly love how, at least in all of the stories I have read from her, Liane Moriarty starts her books with some type of tragedy, but you don't know who it happened to, who did it, or why they did it.
It makes for an interesting read.This story only got three stars from me because, as I stated before, I have a little bit higher expectations from this author than what was provided in this book.
Three Wishes was Lianne Moriarity's first novel, and it's not surprising.
Or should I say, she and her characters have really matured over time.
But the more I got to know the characters, or really just Gemma (the triplet who was fraternal), the more I liked it.
The other two triplets were identical twins, so Gemma was more unique and her sisters let her know how different she was.
But thinking back to when I was 33, I was still doing some pretty silly things too.This would be my least favorite of Moriarity's many books.
Also, Moriarty needs to write more books because I have only two to go before I've read all of her works.
Maybe because I'm getting closer and closer to being thirty, and her books usually focus on women of that age.
That’s how it felt.”​The story follows three women, in this case triplets, and their lives - husbands, kids, family relations.
Surprisingly I enjoyed all of the characters in this book, all of the female characters at least: Gemma, Lyn and Cat - all brought something to the table that I could either relate to or just learn from.
She meets Charlie and finds him to be "the one", however, she struggles with the fact that his sister is having an affair with her sister Cat's husband.
She eventually becomes pregnant and in the end, she's with Charlie and they live happily ever after.Cat has a great husband (or so she thinks) and a great job.
As predictable as it can get, Dan ends up with the girl he was having an affair with, Cat ends up alone and desperately wanting a baby, Lyn is fine and Gemma has a happy ending.
Three wishes, three women who are triplets. It was a good read with some real laugh out loud moments. What a wacky family. Favourite character was Maddie.
Oh how I'm going to miss Gemma, Lyn, and Cat! I loved these characters. The fact that they were there for each other through thick and thin, that they were flawed, just endeared them to me more. This book made me laugh even when dealing with some tough subjects. Another one of my favorites!
Three Wishes is a standalone novel written by the amazing Liane Moriarty.
I think I have said this in every review I have written for Ms. Moriarty, but I'll say it again: It is as if she has lived the lives of her characters and has personally battled every issue she writes about.
I would recommend Three Wishes to existing fans of Liane Moriarty.
If you haven't read Ms. Moriarty before then read this one and just know that her novels just keep getting better and better!My favorite quote:"Do you fight a lot?
Originally posted here.One of my goals this year is to do more readalongs because they're a lot of fun. I read Three Wishes by Liane Moriarty along with two good friends, Janice and Holly. I first discovered Liane Moriarty, Australian author of contemporary fiction, when I read  What Alice Forgot  last year. I enjoyed it so much that I wanted to read the rest of her books. The cute cupcake cover for Three Wishes is deceiving. I thought I'd be reading a book about quirky triplets, something light
I read Three Wishes by Liane Moriarty along with two good friends, Janice and Holly.
I enjoyed it so much that I wanted to read the rest of her books.
I'm sorry to say that I didn't enjoy reading Three Wishes as much as I was expecting.
I wasn't invested in any of the Kettle sisters and I just wanted to finish the book so I can move on to a better one.
It has taken me a while to write this review and I'm already on another readalong with Janice and Holly - we're reading Whiskey Road by Karen Siplin.
This book made me nervous, and left me unsatisfied.The writing style at the beginning is a bit confusing, but once you get used to it, it becomes enjoyable.
So if you have not read the book yet and don’t want any anticipation, I suggest you STOP HERE.
If you have read the book, I would like to know if it was just me, or if you had the same impression…Sister 1: She has a perfect life from the start, she keeps it throughout the book, with some minor, minor, minor, did I mention minor?, hiccups.
If you love “sister books” as I do, this is another winner from Moriarty.
This is the third book I've read by Liane Moriarty and I think one of the reasons I've notched five stars for all of them is not because I necessarily 'enjoyed' reading them but because I couldn't stop thinking about them.
"Three Wishes" also tackles uncomfortably sticky relationships with friends and siblings and spouses.
My brain keeps spinning on 'what ifs' and how decisions we make spin off an impossibly intertwined sequence of events.
As always, she succeeds in getting the readers to realize life is still good, and can be better than good, when others force you off the path you chose for yourself.
לין, קאת וג'מה הן שלישית אחיות בשנתן ה 33. שנה בה אירועים מכריעים קורים לשלושתן. בפרקים מתחלפים בין הדמויות העבר וההווה של האחיות משתלבים לסיפור פנורמי של אהבה וחברות אמיצים.האם והאב התגרשו כשהיו צעירות. חייהן מתעצבים בצל הגירושים והצורך לנקוט עמדה ובצל האישיות של האחיות.ספר שכתוב יפה, נוגע ללב באירועים השונים שחולפים בחיים של האחיות. אירועים יומיומיים שעוסקים במשפחה, ילדים, בעל, בגידות, התמודדות עם החיים.
Attracting attention wherever they go, the triplets Gemma, Cat and Lyn Kettle couldn't be more different - or closer.
While sarcastic Cat has always been in control and ready to take charge especially when it comes to her job and her marriage.
From rocky marriages to unexpected pregnancies and even long-secret revelations brought to light, these three women manage to conquer each new obstacle in the trademark Kettle way - together.I suppose I should go ahead and say that Liane Moriarty will now be added to my auto-buy list of chick lit authors.
Cat, Gemma, and Lyn are human.
It's about the individual's lives but also the life of A FAMILY, despite little things like the parents (of the original family for the purpose of the book) divorce and miscarriages and marital discord in the now and yet the family is resilient which helps bolster the adult children of the family and their families and its another of life's circles as their individual resiliency also bolsters the family's unity and future so that they all grow and are there for the upcoming generation.
No matter what genre you like even if this is just a really smart "beach read" for you, you'll enjoy it I think.
This is not to say that humor or happiness is lacking, but there is always some element of 'real life' that keeps these books from veering into the pink fluff area.THREE WISHES is the story or triplets, Lyn, Cat, and Gemma, who are all quite different but are bound to each other by the ties of family and friendship.
Each of them is dealing with their own issue and the chapters have different POVs, which I am a fan of, when done right.It's the kind of book to read when you are looking for mild escapism and the occasional laugh.
So far, I've read three of Moriarty's books and I just got another, so I can certainly recommend them.
A lot of people complain about formula writing, but every now and again (especially when I'm very busy) I enjoy picking up a book and knowing exactly what to expect.
I enjoyed reading about the relationship between the sisters, even if their personalities where a bit stereotyped, but my favorite character was the mom.
A quick bit of escapism.The Story: Lyn, Cat, and Gemma Kettle, beautiful thirty-three-year-old triplets, seem to attract attention everywhere they go.
Lyn has organized her life into one big checklist, Cat has just learned a startling secret about her marriage, and Gemma, who bolts every time a relationship hits the six-month mark, holds out hope for lasting love.
