https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228234.The_Treason_of_the_Intellectuals
Written two decades before The Glass Bead Game, Treason of The Intellectuals covers similar ground and makes the same point as Hesse: something has gone seriously awry with education and the uses of intellectual power.
So it seems sensible to revisit Treason to at least become more aware of the problem.“Our age,” Benda says, referring to that generation of almost a century ago, “is indeed the age of the intellectual organization of political hatreds.” Little did he comprehend how far that hatred might expand in depth and scope.
A passionate, poorly argued hodge-podge on the anti-enlightenment trends of the interwar French intelligentsia that gathered around men like Charles Maurras and L' Action Française. The thesis is interesting -- though not entirely persuasive -- but the book is better known than read. The Introduction is written in the style of some sort of Straussian cant and is a complete waste of time.
Egalitariștii din zilele noastre, neînțelegând că nu poate exista egalitate decât în abstract și că esența concretului este inegalitatea, și-au dovedit, dincolo de remarcabila lor stângăcie politică, și extraordinara grosolănie de spirit. (p. 88)(...) faptul că astăzi în special oamenii de litere, în imensa lor majoritate, blamează liberalismul se numără printre fenomenele moderne care vor uimi cel mai mult istoria (...). Fascinați de statul puternic, aceștia au proslăvit statul disciplinat de tip prusac, în care fiecare la postul său, ascultând ordinele de sus, contribuie la măreția patriei, fără a mai lăsa loc inițiativelor personale. (p. 105)
Even though the first edition of this book was in 1927, which can seem ancient, but the main issues that it adresses are still alive today, and are still a problem.
Intellectuals are prone to politics and their own interests, the majority of people does not think beyond their primary needs and interests ...
Who is going to think outside the box, and want something moral and truthful and meaningful for all?
Who - if not intellectuals?
The author sometimes repeats himself, but this is still a very good and important book.
Wow... During the XIXth century, Europe embraced gruesome stories and abandoned reason. A worried guy looked at the landscape and tried to articulate his concerns.I believe there are better critiques of the trends described in this book. However, the concern was proved valid and, as such, it deserves consideration. This leads to Bergson, Popper - for some real epistemology - and Steiner - for the crisis of the European mind following the WWII. And Plato's Gorgias.
one of the most prophetic secular books ever.
Thus, I choose to not see it as such, but rather an interested (as opposed to disinterested, as the book would argue) warning to the intellectual.The warning is as follows: 'The society of intellectuals ("clercs") should never stoop to the goals of nationalism, fascism, or hatred towards those of property.
For example, the author claims that it is not necessarily the goal of a clerc that makes one fail, but rather how this work is used that makes it sufficiently treasonous.
If this were the case, then Spinoza, a clerc which the author to be a shining example, would be a failure under interpretation of post-modern religion.
"Se poate afirma a priori ca un carturar laudat de laici si-a tradat misiunea." (p.67)Tradarea consta in adoptarea pasiunilor politice, in aservirea artei prin xenofobie si nationalism inversunat (d.e. Barrés), prin tendentionism etc., si are drept cauze extinderea intereselor politice asupra tuturor oamenilor, fara exceptie, consistenta sporita a obiectelor care alimenteaza pasiunile realiste si nu in ultimul rind dorinta si capacitatea scriitorilor de a juca un rol politic, in contextul in care cultura clasica si tinuta intelectuala sint considerabil diminuate.Asa se explica de ce principiile carturarului modern au devenit exaltarea curajului (pe care filosofii, de la Socrate la Renan, il considerau o virtute de rangul al doilea), exaltarea onoarei, exaltarea duritatii impreuna cu dispretul fata de iubirea de oameni si cultul succesului, adica preamarirea (conform distinctiei lui Saint-Beuve) "inteligentei-spada" in locul "inteligentei-oglinda"."...inregimentata intr-o imensa uzina, nemaistiind decit de eroisme, discipline si inventii, batjocorind orice act liber si dezinteresat, perfect hotarita sa nu-si mai plaseze idealul dincolo de lumea reala si nemaiavind alt zeu decit pe sine insasi, omenirea va savirsi lucruri mari, va dobindi stapinirea cu adevarat grandioasa a materiei inconjuratoare si constiinta cu adevarat voioasa a puterii si maretiei sale.
Scritto nel 1927 e ripubblicato dopo la Seconda Guerra Mondiale con una prefazione ampia, questo libro, seminale a tratti e per certi versi un unicum irripetibile, si chiede che funzione hanno gli intellettuali e quale è stata la loro figura e presenza negli anni a cavallo fra XIX e XX secolo.
Già dalla prefazione, Benda, illuminato da chissà quale lume della ragione, individua e marca i tratti specifici degli intellettuali e i loro errori, "tradimenti".
Fight through the dated references to what was then recent history and the even-more-voluminous references to French writers/philosophers, and the reader will be rewarded with the realization that the author managed the very important task of writing a book that has proven to be prescient and timeless. The observations made in 1920's France echo even to this day.
I read Indonesian version, -Pengkhiantan Kaum Cendikiawan-.
Really interesting perspective on the role of intellectuals within society, however the structure is a bit chaotic from time to time. Basically a critique on intellectuals who let themselves be led by ‘political passions’, which stops them from valueing the universal (and leads to nationalism etc). The predictions in the work became reality in the most devestating ways (holocaust), but perhaps the scary part is that is still so relevant to contemporary issues faced today.
Una magnífica reflexión sobre en qué momento, a caballo entre los siglos XIX y XX, los intelectales traicionaron su misión de servir a la verdad y se vendieron a causas como la nación o la clase...
