https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/210105.Apartment_in_Athens
Una famiglia tedesca che ha conosciuto giorni migliori, composta dal padre che ha perso il lavoro per la chiusura della casa editrice, la moglie, figlio maschio e femmina, vive nel loro appartamento nel centro di Atene.La Grecia viene occupata anche dai tedeschi che arrivano in aiuto degli italiani.Un capitano nazista, Kalter, sceglie questa casa come suo alloggio perché molto vicina al comando germanico.Inizia una convivenza problematica.Nella prima parte, il tedesco è dominatore, severo, intransigente.
Poi, dopo una licenza a casa, ritorna più umano: qui Wescott sembr attingere dalla tradizione letteraria che identifica l’animo tedesco con aspetti di tragedia, crepuscolari (i Nibelunghi, what else?).Ovviamente in questo microcosmo tra quattro mura si riflette la situazione internazionale: la Germania dominatrice che calpesta tutti i popoli che invade, schiaccia, umilia.
Sublime... large portions of this book are sheer brilliance.... Esp. fascinating to me was the meditation on the lyrical aspects of the Nazi self-consciousness in Ch. 9. Though often criticized for having written so little, a life that produced this book and Pilgram Hawk surely was not wasted. Wescott was a craftsman of the highest order, and the effort may simply have tired him out....At any rate, a real gem.
I don't know why I read this book from midnight until 2 am last night, at every chapter break thinking with cold nausea about everything I have to get done before Friday and then resolutely plunging into another chapter. But it's an astonishing little exercise, deceptively expository and actually scary as hell. Nelson Algren is in here, also Paul Bowles. I liked it a lot. What happened to Glenway Wescott's literary reputation? It is a mystery.ETA: Oh, so here's what happened:http://www.cercles.com/review/r29/ros...
È un romanzo duro, claustrofobico, quasi sgradevole, che mette a nudo la psicologia dei protagonisti, evocando nel lettore l’orrore di una prigione mentale e fisica.
Ma perfino là dove ogni speranza sembra illusoria, da quello stesso senso di impotenza e da un rigurgito di orgoglio, quando vengono toccati gli affetti più cari, può nascere una forma di resistenza.Questo romanzo mi ha ricordato una situazione analoga, descritta ne Il silenzio del mare di Vercors, un bellissimo racconto, simbolo della resistenza muta di un popolo sconfitto, che oppone all’invasore il silenzio, il rifiuto di qualunque dialogo.
Whilst this story was extremely well written and I was intrigued by the premise of the novel I have to say that overall it wasn't an enjoyable read.
There was an overpowering feel of opression and claustrophobia within this story, without any uplifting moments to alleviate the unrelenting grimness.
I found it very difficult to appreciate the major characters here, because I didn't appreciate them and I found it difficult empathise with them.What was most interesting to this reader was the insight into the German psyche.
Whilst I could appreciate the author's skill in presenting the story I would find it difficult to recommend with any equanimity.
This is well written...it's Glenway Wescott, who is fairly incapable of writing poorly. But everything about the story made me uncomfortable, anxious, agitated, disturbed, and depressed and I couldn't wait for it to end. I'm sure I was just reading it at the wrong moment for me. I heartily recommend it to others.
Still, despite brief yet provocative references to the German occupation of Greece in broad, historical terms, Wescott is primarily concerned with the small, unimportant lives of the tormented Helianoses and their uncertain relationship with Captain Kalter, who casts “a spell and a snare” onto his Greek hosts.
She consciously kept her back turned to the window.”Despite Helianos’ dominant role in the first half of the novel, by the end of Apartment in Athens his wife has become its real heroine evident by her transformation from a passive, unreflective housewife into an introspective, self-confident head of the family who refuses to kowtow to the severe demands of the men in her life.
Η συμβίωση τους στην αρχή διακρίνεται από την ταπείνωση και την εξαθλίωση που επιβάλλει ο Ναζί αξιωματικός στην οικογένεια.
Χτυπάει τον Αλέξη, χρησιμοποιεί τη συζυγική κλίνη ως δική του, τους αφήνει να λιμοκτονούν και το πλεονάζων φαγητό από τα δικά του γεύματα το δίνει σε ένα σκύλο.
Ο κύριος Ηλιανός προσπαθεί να καταλάβει τη συμπεριφορά του ενώ η σύζυγος του δεν τολμά να αντιδράσει μπροστά στον λοχαγό Κάλτερ.
Η αλλαγή του αποτελεί μυστήριο για την οικογένεια Ηλιανού.
Η απώλεια ενός μέλους της ωθεί τα υπόλοιπα να ανακαλύψουν πτυχές του εαυτού τους και κρυμμένη ψυχική δύναμη που κανείς δεν φανταζόταν ότι είχαν.
Wescott gives his readers a story with twists and surprises. And characters, all unsympathetic, trapped physically and spiritually, but truly believable. And his city, Athens, has been captured by the Nazis, as we learn how one family is coping. This apartment is a sad, sad place. The strength of the novel is the exploration of family life during World War II. The experience is revealed by Wescott--he is an American writer more known for his novella, The Pilgrim Hawk, but this is a stellar achievement.
Um sublime tratado sobre as emoções e os sentimentos humanos."Não é de ânimo leve que uma pessoa decide que a bondade da intenção conta mais que os actos; que resolvemos submeter-nos a ideias erradas e infra-humanas, ou calarmo-nos perante palavras malévolas só porque atrás delas se esconde um bom coração - aceitando coisas que odiamos e nas quais nada há de aceitável excepto o carácter enigmático de quem as pronunciou, contentando-nos com boas intenções, independentemente de contradizerem ou não os nossos valores morais e independentemente de serem ou não vantajosas para nós.""Regra geral, a alma não se aquieta às metades; um tipo de cedência induz gradualmente outras.
Interesting (& I believe realistic) account of 1 family’s reality during the German occupation of Greece. Happens around the time I was born in Athens & resonates with me as I remember stories my mother would tell me if the fear & loathing of the Greeks toward the Germans. The writing was awkward & I was surprised to see it was not translated from Greek. The writer must be bi-lingual or perhaps an English speaker from other than the US, because the dialect was apparent. I struggled sometimes to understand the sentence construction. Hi
Too much time was spent on the ridiculous pseudo-intellectual conversation and thoughts of Kalter and Helianos. After wading through that, anticipating a resolution, or at least a conclusion, the ending was a let down, and (view spoiler)[the implication about how Mrs. Helianos will think and act in the future feels false and unlikely (hide spoiler)].
Fascinating WWII novel set in Athens during the German Occupation. It richly details the psychological transformation of a Greek housewife.
Apartment in Athens was recommended by a friend who said it was the best novel ever written (although he didn't elaborate).
It is the story of the terrible travail, in war-torn Athens, of an ordinary Greek family.
But if my friend hadn't said it was the best novel ever written I think I would have had trouble finishing it.
I'm glad I did and it's left an impression of the hell and (mostly) helplessness of occupation with me, but it didn't move me and surely a novel that tells the story of such a heartbreak, and such forbearance, should.
Athens, 1941. Nikolas Helianos, a publisher whose business was closed by the Nazis, lives in poverty with his wife and two children. Then the Nazis requisition their home to house Major Kalter, and they become servants in their own home. Over time a relationship of sorts develops between the Helianos family and Kalter. We get much detail about what the Helianos are thinking and feeling, perhaps too much for my tastes. I liked the realism; I can believe that situations like this must have occurred.
I have finished Apartment in Athens and while I cannot say I was captivated by the story or found reading it especially enjoyable, I did like the book overall, mostly due to Wescott's prose and the depiction of the Greek family, in particular. Rating it is tough; three stars based on how much I liked it, but four if based solely on the writing. I will be adding Pilgrim Hawk to my 2012 reading list.
This is a really dark book. I didn't like one person in it.  It's about a Greek family that has to share thier home with a Nazi officer during world war two. The German officer goes down and takes everyone that is around him with him. It's hard to read but worth it!!!
Un roman difficile d'accès, au rythme lent, parfois difficile à suivre, sur la vie d'une famille grecque obligée d'héberger un officier allemand pendant l'Occupation de la Grèce par l'Allemagne nazie. Le thème est passionnant, le roman un peu moins.
Overall, a very well written book. I just felt the author took too long to get to the next plot point. I just needed things to move a little more quickly. I would definitely seek out other work by the author.
So much is written about those who tragically died but the price paid today is by those who survived.
A huge let down. It never lived up to the premise. Such a great idea, if only it had been written by another other. This book could have stayed lost, as far as I'm concerned.
a disturbing and insightful novel. the story of a Greek family forced to house a German soldier for the duration of the war.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/12118685
Vicoli ciechi. E sordi.
Trouxe-me à lembrança leituras antigas (le silence de la mer de Vercors).
