https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67141.Contempt
Along with the troubled couple, the novel only features two other characters, film producer Battista, an arrogant and overbearing individual who has eyes for Emilia, and German Director Rheinhold who wants to make a film version of Homers's Odyssey.The couple are invited to Battista'a villa on the idyllic island of Capri in the Bay of Naples, helping Molteni to start writing a script, with it's rugged coastline and sparkling blue/green waters, it seems the perfect place to get away and clear the air, but this would only lead to a growing tension that doesn't let up.
In fact, Moravia did succeed in portraying the obsessive, supremely self-centered and over-analytic narrator, Riccardo Molteni, pretty well.
On the contrary, Molteni's narration is excruciatingly painful to read and insufferably repetitive.
Now bring in a director who incessantly analyzes Ulysses from Odyssey, repeat the phrases from the previous part whenever the director shuts up and that's another 70-80 pages.The narrator sometimes gets stuck at one thought and writes an entire page saying the same thing several times.
ربما تتكرر في الحياة الحقيقيةكم من منزل يغلق بابه على زوجة تحتقر زوجها وزوج لاه غير مدرك أو مدرك تماما ولكنه راغب في الإحتفاظ بزوجته إما أملا في تغيير شعورها تجاهه و حبا لها أو لمجرد الإمتلاك للثأر مستغلا حاجات نفسية ومادية قد تتغير حسب تغير المجتمعات والثقافاتكم من امرأة ترى زوجها ليس رجلا ولا يتصرف تصرفات رجال ...
فالمشاعر السلبية جميعها سيئة وتثقل على القلب ...

الاحتقار قرأت رواية مورافيا ومن ثم شاهدت فيلم غودار الذي اعتمد عليها، الفيلم برأيي لم يرتق للرواية، 
This is my third Moravia and damn if he hasn't become one of my favorites now!This is the anti-Homeric tale of the anti-Ulysses.
The backdrop is a writer who takes on the dubious task of writing a script adaptation of Ulysses.
Told in the first person by this screenwriter who clearly sees himself as an intellectual (referencing not only Homer but Dante and Joyce as well - woo hoo!) and sees himself as a man with integrity (no sea monsters in his script!) and yet he has a complete and utter lack of self-awareness.
The movie’s distance really captures what is going on, the comment on consumer society: as merely because you own something doesn’t mean you’ll ever possess it, let alone understand it.That being: Beauty.
That’s what in this book everyone is trying to possess and understand.
The woman possesses beauty but doesn’t own it.
And the producer owns it but doesn’t understand or possess it.
All of them fail to understand the nature of Beauty.
That’s what they hold in contempt, seemingly.
But they do so because they don’t understand its nature, and thus it becomes destructive, something to be wary of, even not want, or even sadly… hold in contempt.
"Contempt" is a story about a screenwriter who loses his beautiful wife to his producer.
Slowly the reader can see what's happening, and you just want to yell out at the page 'hey stupid, you are going to lose your beautiful wife to that awful man the producer!" But alas it's too late.
A litle side note:Jean-Luc Godard made this into an incredible film with Brigitte Bardot and Jack Palance.
One of my all-time favorite films and book.
One day on the bus I saw this beautiful girl reading not only "Contempt" but even better - a movie tie in mass market version of this novel.
Some people scream at TVs (you know who you are), whereas I, when thoroughly provoked by a character, will go beyond the eyes-to-the-sky, heavy sighing, rapid paper cut inducing turning of pages and just let loose on a narrator.
Why of course it is and in 251 pages of the most mind spinning prose, Riccardo Molteni sets out to prove it to you.
One of the issues that play a major role in the novel, is the relationship between success and money, and the real needs and wishes of people; the characters are forced to do things that are in contrast with what they really want in order to make a living, or to satisfy the (vain) dreams of their partners, or to be perceived as successful and dynamic in a capitalist society.
While Battista wants to produce a monumental adventure movie, Rheingold on the other hand is only interested in the psychological conflict that he sees as the reason for Odysseus (Ulysses) participation in the War of Troy, and his delayed return to Penelope.
ليس من السهل أبدا تصوير مشاعر الانسان الدقيقة بهذه الاحترافية الشديدة ... لقد نجح ألبرتو مورافيا بلا شك بتصوير بشاعة شعور الإنسان بالإحتقار لدرجة ستشعر معها انك داخل ذات ذلك الانسان، تشعر تماما بكل ما يختلج فؤاده من مشاعر.النهاية جاءت ساذجة بعض الشيء الا انها لم تنتقص أبدا من براعة مورافيا.
انه يحاول أن يستشف السبب بالضبط لماذا زوجته لم تعد تحبه، ولماذا على وجه التحديد لديها مثل هذا الازدراء الشديد نقطة ضعف رواية هي كثرة استخدام الايحاءات الجنسية
260 صفحة أنهيتها في ليلة واحدة من المساء وحتى الصباح.وإذا أردت أن أكون حسن النية فيمكنني القول أن كث
This book was agonizingly good.
Read it if you want to witness (and perhaps relive) the rather rapid disintegration of a long-term relationship, step by torturous step.
Each niggling doubt, each pang of hurt and betrayal, each willful choice to ignore one's intuition and instead select a creative interpretation of the incontrovertible facts.
This book reminds us of the process.
Although it was often very painful and sad to read, there was something immensely helpful on a personal level in being able to follow so astutely the descent of a relationship.
قراءتي الثانية للروائي الإيطالي ألبيرتو مورافيا بعد "الهوان" وكانت تجربة مختلفة جداً لا علاقة لها بذلك الهوان، وأعتقد الآن أن هناك خللاً في ترجمتها بالإضافة أنها "من الممكن" أن تكون ترجمة مختصره، قد أقرأها يوما ما بالترجمة الإنجليزية لو صادفتني في إحدى المكتبات وللمهتمين فهي تحمل عنوان Two Womenولنعد الآن "للاحتقار"، هذه الرواية تكشف لنا قدرة الروائي أو موهبته في التحليل النفسي لردود الأفعال والمواقف المختلفة التي تعرَّض لها بطل هذه الرواية الذي يعاني من حب لزوجة تسبب الفارق الثقافي بينه وبينها والضائقة المالية في إحداث شرخ فيه وصل لحد احتقار زوجته له، وسعيه لفهم الأسباب واستعادة ذلك الحب من جديدلا أعرف لماذا وأنا أقرأ لم أتوقع نهاية مُرْضِية، فأنا كنت مستغرقة في ذلك التحليل ولذلك كانت النهاية رغم مأساويتها معقولة وغير مخيبة للآمال.
A telling novel of a marriage gone horribly wrong, of lines of communication closed and the inability to reconnect.At first I was irritated by the narrator Ricardo, I doubted his regard for his wife and found it difficult to identify or sympathize with his total self involvement and lack of awareness, no matter how he tried to justify his position.
It is a thought provoking novel, I'll give it that with the second half being more intense and driven then the first.
شدة الإدراك مرض .
A feeling that soon becomes contagious and spreads to the wife and rest of his social circle.In a brilliant parallel, Moravia draws Ulysses into the story - the film-makers begin to make a modern-day adaptation of Odyssey (not the 'debasement' that Joyce did, by making great heroes into morose losers.
In either case, it lends an interesting touch to the book, especially by placing a parallel between a great hero and his regular protagonist.Moravia's writing is excellent - in it there is much thought and consciousness, which though destructive in real life, is engaging.
/امیلی و پنه لوپه(تحقیر)البرتو موراویاپرویز شهدیالبرتو موراویا یکی از مهمترین نویسندگان چپ گرای ایتا
دنیای امروز طوری ساخته شده که هیچکس نمیتواند راهی را که دوست دارد انتخاب کند، و برعکس باید کاری انجام دهد که دیگران میخواهند... چرا پول باید در آنچه انجام میدهیم، آنچه هستیم، آنچه میخواهیم بشویم، در حرفهمان، در آرزوهامان و حتی روابطمان با آنهایی که دوستشان داریم، چنین جایی داشته باشد؟
دنیای امروز طوری ساخته شده که هیچ‌کس نمی‌تواند راهی را که دوست دارد انتخاب کند، و برعکس باید کاری انجام دهد که دیگران می‌خواهند... چرا پول باید در آنچه انجام می‌دهیم، آنچه هستیم، آنچه می‌خواهیم بشویم، در حرفه‌مان، در آرزوهامان و حتی روابطمان با آنهایی که دوستشان داریم، چنین جایی داشته باشد؟
والاهتمام بالآخر أكثر مما يجب، كما إنه جزء منه يكمن في الطموح، شعرت بأن كل شخص طامح لا بد أن يكون محتقراً من قبل شخص يحكم عليه من خارج منطقة الطموح الشخصي الذي يدفع الأول لتصرف بشكل، يعميه عنه طموحه، فيتحول ببساطة، لشخص محتقر.*مولتيني كاتب سيناريو، لا يحب عمله، هو يكتب لأجل زوجته التي لم تكن بذاك الجمال كما يصف في بداية النص، ثم نكتشف بأنه تخلى عن زوجته، لتقع في حبائل منتج كبير، فقط لكي يجد الكاتب فرصة نيل الدخول في شراكة، معه، لكتابة السيناريو.
For the past few days I have moved through the repetitive streets with nyrb on my left and criterion on my right, sandwiched, ringed in a protective pretention of a quiet sort.
For the past two days Contempt has been my bodyguard.
I enjoyed this book- the wretched Molteni, his ego-centric inability to see himself, able, of course to criticize and psychologize those around him so easily and swiftly.
Having drank the book in a few quick gulps I was able to conjure some pity and at times, perhaps those spent directly in the sun, even sympathy for the wretched Molteni.
بعد مشاهدتي للفيلم الفرنسي الذي اخرجه جان لوك غودار سنة 1963 المقتبس من هذه الرواية ، استعجلت بقراءه
Kitapta tiyatro yazarı olmak isteyen ancak parasal kaygıları yüzünden senaryo yazarlığı yapmak zorunda kalan Molteni ve karısı Emilia'nin sarsılan ilişkisine şahitlik ediyoruz. Moravia'nın okuduğum ilk kitabıydı ve okurken kendimi film izliyormuş gibi hissettim. Daha sonra yazarı araştırdığımda bütün kitaplarının böyle bir etki bıraktığını gördüm, nitekim birkaç kitabı da film yapılmış. Baş karakterin, karısı ile ilişkisini Penelope - Odysseus ilişkisi ve Odysseia destanı ile bütünleştirmesi başarılı olmuş ancak daha sonrasında bunu tamamlayamamış ve sürpriz bir sonla hikayeyi (bence) havada bırakarak bitirmiş.
This is superb. Use of first-person narration a perfect match to content, especially toward the end when his arguments become ever more circular and his reason begins to go.
This novel could be compared to a long monologue of the narrator who tries to explain the circumstances that brought his wife to break up with him.Molteni always wanted to write scripts for drama and ended up a movie scriptwriter just to please his wife and her material needs.
But just at the moment when everything seems to turn right for him, she announces him that she doesn't love him anymore.
It made me feel sympathy for the narrator just as much as I felt like he was pathetic and I was living in the same nightmare as he was.
And the end didn't really help shake the feeling...
This is a well done story about a marriage break-up in the movie industry. Our hero, Ricardo, is a script-writer hired to write the scenario for the Odyssey. Ricardo wants to tell the story within pure classical lines. The producer wants a glitzy, extravaganza while the German director wants to write a Freudian, psychological drama. Our hero is unable to impose his will with either. His wife throws up her hands in contempt and runs off with the millionaire producer.Be sure also to the Jean-Luc Godard adaption for the cinema starring Brigitte Bardot, Michel Piccoli, Jack Palance and Fritz Lang.
I'm a fan after just one book. The prose is so perfect, exact, clear covering such a gamut of emotions and thoughts. I felt sheer envy at the way he can corral those amorphous feelings and consciousness into these precise expressions. If I could, I would want to steal his gift.
That night on the way home this happens:"I was wild with delight at Battista's unhoped-for proposal, and I could not help saying to Emilia: "This film script comes just at the right moment.
She always adduced some pretext or other that had nothing to do with Battista in order not to come with us; always, in the same way, I proved to her without any difficulty that the pretext did not hold good, and insisted on trying to find out whether she disliked Battista....."Our narrator, who is too busy thinking about himself to notice who is chasing his wife or if his wife is responding, tells us this about himself:"Until then I had looked upon myself as an intellectual, a man of culture, a writer for the theater - the "art" theater, I mean - for which I had always had a great passion and to which I felt I was drawn by a natural vocation.
عندما تطول مدة القراءة عن المعتاد اجد ان كتابة ريفيو قد تظلم الرواية لاني قرأتها على فترات متباعدة جدا (تأتي فترة لا تصبح القراءة شي مهم في يومي) أو ربما بسبب اللودو ستار وقتها قد سرقت وقت القراءة لدي :/الرواية التي تتحدث عن رجل وافق على كتابة سيناريو غير مقتنع به لأجل ان يسدد اجار شقة الزوجية يدخل بها حديث نفس بشكل كبير ..
فالزوج هنا يكتب مذكراته و ملاحظاته تجاه حب زوجته الذي بدأ يخفت للحد الذي وصل الي الاحتقار للزوج بدلا من الحب ..
اغلب احداث الرواية هي محاولة معرفة الزوج لسبب الاحتقار ..
تنتهي الرواية دون ان يعرف سببا اكيدا لهذا الاحتقار وهذه المشاعر عرفتني على نوع من المشاعر الغريبة بين الزوجين فما اصعب العيش مع شخص مٌحتقر و الاصعب هو شعور المٌحتقر كما حدث مع بطل الرواية
