https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1266963.William_An_Englishman
This is such a poignant book about yet idealized beliefs and the dangers of insulating oneself from those that disagree with you. It's message is as relevant today in the wake of Trump's election and Brexit as it was to the socialists of the pre war era.
We first meet William as a clerk, and very much under his Mothers thumb.
He meets Griselda, a Suffragette who is described as his "Exact counterpart in petticoats".
Here, they see no newspapers and don't speak the language, so when they start to get a bit bored and decide to head home, they are unaware that while they have been living in isolation, a war has broken out and they find themselves in the thick of it.
The first half was very different with the author poking fun at her main characters, but by the second half, the book has descended into the hell of war.

The author, however, draws the readers in at first with a light and satirical description of its gentle, naïve and optimistic main characters, William and Griselda.When the story begins, William is twenty-six years old and still lives with his mother.
I have to say that the violence in this book shocked me and Hamilton does not gloss over or sugarcoat the atrocities of war.William, the once naïve and optimistic Englishman who lived in his happy little bubble of bliss, now becomes the disillusioned and distraught victim of real warfare.
Hated the monstrously bloated, abstract, Latinate prose. Abandoned on page 12. Blech!
The story of William Tully, a naive and idealistic young English clerk who is honeymooning in rural Belgium with his equally naive young bride when they are caught in the backwash of the beginning of the First World War. It is heartbreaking in places and William's development and disillusionment is brilliantly drawn, as is the helplessness that ordinary people feel when they accidentally fall into events that are completely beyond their understanding.
Cicely Hamilton wrote this book in wartime France while working in an army hospital and entertaining frontline troops with concerts.
I thought this was a wonderful book about the futility of war that deserves to be much better known.
She seems to hate them, resent them even as she chooses to write about them.Yet once the war begins, once the German army arrives and they are forced to confront their naivety, both Hamiltion's own affection for her characters and my view of the novel changed dramatically.
Hence why Hamilton was able to  provide gruesome details about the war in her novel; hence why she might view idealism as worthless in the face of such circumstances.To her and her characters, black and white ideology is worthless in world filled with shades of gray, and I felt every bit of William's frustration when he tries to get his friends and comrades to sign up only to be spurred by almost every one of them.
Thanks to Persephone Books for keeping this book in print.
Unusual, powerful story of a young English couple caught in the early days of WWI while they are on their three week honeymoon in rural Belgium.Before their marriage, they become involved in activism and the progressive politics of their times: pacifism, socialism, and votes for women.
Going to political rallies and protests together, getting arrested together, sharing a sense of outrage and social justice...
They have no idea how everything will change when suddenly they are thrust into war on the ground.
I could easily imagine a modern version of this story.
Cicely Hamilton was serving in France at the time that she wrote this novel, and we see the war ravaged landscape through her eyes.
Lulling the reader into a false sense of security, the novel starts off benignly enough; William Tully is an unremarkable young man in an insurance office, small, weak, pale and rather dominated by his mother.
He remembered also that the little man’s face was pale, with a sickly yellow-grey pallor; and that as he came down the steps with his head held up the drooping moustache quivered and the fat chin beneath it twitched spasmodically.
Firstly, the forward author, Nicola Beauman, is spot-on:The lightness of tone [at the beginning of the novel] - the satire on the squabbles and smallnesses of the suffragette movement - lulls the reading into a false sense of security; only much later do we realise that is some ways we have been deliberately placed in the same situation as the hero and heroine.This I found the be the most interesting aspect of William - An Englishman - not only how quickly William's and Griselda's attitudes change toward pacifism as they are unknowingly thrown on the front lines of WWI but my own reaction to William and Griselda's foolishness and ignorance while honeymooning.(view spoiler)[When William and Griselda are captured by German soldiers in Belgium, this seemed, to me, an appropriate punishment for their intentionally combative Social Reformist-attitude.
I wanted to read this book this year as part of the 100th anniversary of WWI.
The first third of the book or so is so fiercely satirical that I almost couldn't take how mean the author was to the two main characters.
It was something that I actively disliked reading, but that made me pretty thoughtful.
Adding a link to the reviews of this on Goodreads, as they've made me even more thoughtful about this book.
(I initially added this to my list as part of the WWI theme read over there.)https://www.librarything.com/work/760...
This is the story of a socialist and a suffragette on their honeymoon who are accidentally caught up in the outbreak of World War I. It is a very pointed commentary on the ridiculousness of black and white ideology in the face of the harsh reality of war and really should be required reading for anyone who's never had that experience firsthand. I'm glad I read it but I doubt I'd read it again as it's a bit too dismal to be a favorite.
I was surprised by how moved I was by "William, An Englishman". The book speaks to the naivety of youth and blind conviction, extremes during the hells and trials of WWI, and how life experiences can change your world view forever.
2.5 stars.
And here he meets his future wife Griselda; their shallow, ignorant outlook focussing on protests and struggles."They believed (quite rightly) in the purity of their own intentions; and concluded (quite wrongly) that the intentions of all persons who did not agree with them must therefore be evil and impure...They read newspapers written by persons who wholly agreed with their views...From these they quoted, in public and imposingly, with absolute faith in their statements."Paying no heed to the greater world affairs of 1914, they spend their honeymoon in the Belgian Ardennes...and find themselves in the middle of hideous war.
I'm not sure we really get to know William; written in the 3rd person, he is brought to us through Hamilton's eyes, and perhaps it loses a little immediacy through that.
However, it leaves me with one burning question, and that is: Cicely, what is your damage?The early chapters introduce our two protagonists: William, a clerk who inherits a private income when his mother dies and throws up his job in favour of becoming a social reformer; and his soon-to-be wife Griselda, a suffragette.
Cicely Hamilton doesn't think much of either William or Griselda, and has no qualms about letting us know it:Their creed, like their code of manners and morals, was identical or practically identical.
William is a nondescript, mousy clerk when we first meet him.
Ignorant and impressionable, he almost without thought becomes a protege of a social reformer and develops into a fiery orator against the government, its military, capitalism, etc.
He meets an equally fiery (and ignorant) women's rights reformer in Griselda.
On the eve of WWI, the two fall in love and marry, not knowing nor caring about world events.
It paints a bleak picture of military life and procedure, and admits that war and politics are often a complex web that cannot be easily explained, prevented, or reformed.
An enjoyable story beautifully written. Nicola Beauman's informative preface, is helpful in setting the context by telling us more about the remarkable author. I was struck by the way in which the two main characters were easily manipulated and, in the absence of any wider knowledge or experience, came to the belief that their views were the right and the only ones - all others being a manifestation of evil. Very contemporary in this Brexit troubled world!!
The book takes an unexpected turn. It transitions from an interesting story about the socialist movement in the UK pre-WW1 to a WW1 book. Beautifully written and touching. The first book I have read by Cicely Hamilton, but will check if Persephone has more!
I loved the sarcastic tone in the beginning but then it turned to disaster and the author rightly adjusted her tone. This was not at all what I expected it to be, but it was really interesting, beautiful and sad, at other times funny and almost absurdist.
A visceral description of war and its impact on one human's soul.
Shocking in its truth about artificial beliefs and committees and the meaningless of clerical work.
The author, Cicely Hamilton, provides little hope or solace for when a human loses their sense of purpose.
I did only give it 4 stars because it was a bit repetitive but it is a must-read for its horrifying middle.
Thanks to Persephone Books for keeping William - An Englishman in print and promoting this otherwise lost masterpiece.
I read the free ebook, which I wouldn't recommend.
I also didn't get to read the preface.
The problem was that he never learned just what that might be, having never been given the opportunity to explore a different life.
William turned to another for help with ideas about what he should now do with his life, and ended up following this other person intellectually into the pacifist movement of pre-WWI.
Therefore, when he ended up (accidentally again) a prisoner, along with his wife, of German soldiers in the midst of his honeymoon, he had no basis for understanding what was happening to them.
They do escape and are helped along back to England, by way of Paris, but his wife dies before even reaching Paris.
"When you live in a crowd," he said at last, "you can always make excuses for yourself. Most likely you don't need to. If you're a fool or a coward you herd with a lot of other fools and cowards, and you all back each other up. So you never come face to face with yourself."
This Peresphone classic tells the story of William Tully, a very mild-mannered, somewhat weakling of a man.
As an activist he meets the lovely Griselda who is supporting the cause of suffragettes.
Convinced he's met his match they marry and plan their idealistic life together.While William and Griselda are on honeymoon in rural Belgium they literally walk right into World War I.
Beautifully written yet equally heartbreaking.How I acquired this book: First book Peresphone "Book-a-month" subscription, birthday gift from my husband.Shelf life: One month
We laugh at them, and think we can see the mishaps ahead, but when they come they are crushing and horrible, and a couple of times I had to stop reading and take a breath.
Hamilton's description of humanity, whether in revenge, or panic, or grief, are so honest and raw, we don't exactly come to sympathise, but to recognise in ourselves what we see and deride in William.
I'me coming to trust Persphone published books, they seem to be a class of their own and I look forward to more pleasant surprises from them.
I read this almost a year ago and gave it 3 stars.
At the time the plot seemed overly simplistic and there was no depth to the characters; nevertheless, I still think about this book every so often, which is why I'm changing the rating to 4 stars.
I tend to forget a book weeks after I read it.
I think the detached manner in which the horrific events are related, the violent scenes related so dispassionately, is very well done and leaves a lasting impression.
Marvellously written and sums up so well the futility of war and the helplessness of the non combatant in the field of war; people whose lives and possessions can be instantly disrupted or so easily be taken from them. It shows up the silly posturing of movements who considered themselves 'at war' with the establishment when they had absolutely no idea or experience of war. A bleak novel with William as a very tragic figure - a little man in every way.
Brilliantly written, the activism highlighted in the beginning of the book was timely, reminded me of the Occupy Wall Street, etc. stuff going on in our present-day society. The plot is original, characters that I found myself impatient at or scornful of in the beginning developed in unexpected ways, and the ending was perfect in its untidiness.
Maybe more like 4.5, but absolutely rounding up. This book shocked me. I don't know what I expected, but this was NOT it. I'm sad that this is not better known, particularly in war fiction. Harrowing is actually the only word I have for this. My heart.
I only stumbled on this by accident, borrowing it from a Persephone library exhibition. Well written, if short anti-war novel. So I wasn't expecting a happy ending but this was more grim than I expected. Would have been interested in a sequel with Faraday on the run up to WWII
