https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11229.The_Sea_the_Sea
A good friend, a male, tells him “the trouble with you, Charles, is that basically you despise women.”Now he has left the London scene to live by himself at a beach house in a tiny town, the first house he ever owned.
All his friends ask him: How is someone like him, so used to the chaotic social scene of London’s theater world, seriously going to live in isolation in a small village?He spends his time writing a memoir that is a kind of diary and autobiography mixed in with copies of letters he sent or received; basically that is this book.
She said, "How is the Murdoch book?" I looked up and without pausing or thinking and said "Simply wondrous".
I decided to sit down and come up with a laundry list of what it is about:-the stars and earth-isolation, connection, misunderstandings, avoidance-narcissistic men and histrionic women-misunderstood boys and romantic girls-wine, cheese, mushrooms and biscuits-tea even when its not drunk-Buddhist demons and Christian saints-dreams, concussions, drownings, death-petty cruelties, belittlement and acts of supreme generosity-heterosexual passions and homosexual cravings-theatre, woodworking, cooking and music-merboys, seals, ghosts and sea dragons-vengeance and apathy-interpretations, neurosis and delusions-minutiae and momentary insights-sullen villagers and grandiose urbanites-dogs, cats and many roses-lost loves and childhood musings-churches, taxis and pubs-murderous rages and spiritual awakenings-vulgarities and tender exchanges-stagnation, repetition and momentary joyMost of all it is about the depth and changeability of the Sea. The Sea that with one swoosh can take away all that we hold dear and understanding that we never held it in the first place.Absolutely amazing.
”Lizzie is half Scottish, half Sephardi Jew. Although she has the most adorable breasts of any woman I ever made love to, she is not really beautiful, and never was even when she was young, but she has charm.” Unfortunately Lizzie is still in love with Charles and even though he really doesn’t want her back he doesn’t want her with Gilbert either.
Iris MurdochWhen we first meet Charles he seems like a man that we would love to know, a favorite uncle or a friend to grab a beer with occasionally.
seeing a sea serpent, believing a ghost is wondering around his home, running into women from his past good and bad, nearly drowning through an apparent attempted murder, or ending up with a houseful of unwanted guests, apart from the one he does want, Hartley, his childhood love.This 1978 Booker prize-winning novel was a feast of reading, rich, textured, deep characters and a story that keep me intrigued throughout.
It was a study of vanity and self-delusion more than anything else, with Charles Arrowby the egomaniac narrator a most unlikable person, moving to Shruff End, a house with a tower by the cliffs "How huge it is, how empty, this great space for which I have been longing all my life," Arrowby writes.
The first 100 pages of this novel shouldn't work, as Charles, in journal form, moves to Shruff's end and inhabits a lonely house by the sea, wanders around town, experiences visions that he blames on LSD (about which, more soon), goes on lengthy diatribes about food:"For lunch, I may say, I ate and greatly enjoyed the following: anchovy paste on hot buttered toast, then baked beans and kidney beans with chopped celery, tomatoes, lemon juice, and olive oil.
An extraordinary night party sequence brings the energy back up, and the ending, totally bizarre, is virtually perfect.I regret, greatly, not reading Murdoch sooner.
All our failures are ultimately failures in love. Iris MurdochOh boy. This is deep, dudes. Far out and deeply deep, dudettes.Rather than trying my unworthy hand at a thorough analysis of a psychologically complex 500 page novel, I shall lay track for a few grooves.Dig it.Near the beginning, I thought it might be a romance. No way, man. More like a real Mystery of Mental and Emotional Health and Well-being.What is love? How is the idea or thought of it, especially young love, affected by the pas
Far out and deeply deep, dudettes.Rather than trying my unworthy hand at a thorough analysis of a psychologically complex 500 page novel, I shall lay track for a few grooves.Dig it.Near the beginning, I thought it might be a romance.
Although it seemed to me, after finishing it, that 50 pages could have been trimmed, I haven't studied it enough to make conclude that those 50 were unneeded, and not the kick that pushed this novel into "classic" territory.I could delve into all my thoughts triggered by the profundity of Iris Murdoch.
At this point he also waxes lyrical about an old childhood romance with a girl called Hartley, his only "true love", and the readers gets the impression that Charles is impossibly unrealistic, viewing the world almost entirely through his imagination.The journal is a useful device, telling us much of the history we need to know, and developing our ideas about Charles's character, as well as giving us an indication of his attitudes towards some of the other people who will enter the novel.
I struggled with this for a while, mainly because I was so irritated by Charles Arrowby, the main character and unreliable narrator.
Whole successions of characters, many of them former lovers, arrive and depart and Charles encounters his first love Hartley who has also retired to the area with her husband.
Like many of Murdoch’s characters Arrowby is not very likeable and seems completely oblivious to the mayhem he creates among his nearest and dearest.
Cousin James is an interesting counterpoint to Arrowby.The Sea is an ever present and the title comes from Xenophon’s Anabasis, an account of the travels of 10,000 Greek mercenary soldiers who end up getting stranded in the middle of the Persian Empire.
Vain, heartless, jealous, rude; all of these, and more, apply to Charles Arrowby, the central character of the novel.
He sets about trying to convince her to leave her husband and run away to him, and this is the scenario that plays out over most of the novel.
Murdoch may be one of the few writers who could create such an unlikeable cast of characters, and still keep the reader interested in the story.
She is a good writer, make no mistake about that.
Imagine how boring it would have looked on a shelf if it had just been called "The Sea." But with that profoundly simple decision to repeat itself, it suddenly drips horror and madness and obsession.
Almost makes me wish Emily Bronte had called her book "The Moor, The Moor."And then Murdoch plays this terrific game with the opening sentence: The sea which lies before me as I write glows rather than sparkles in the bland May sunshine.Which is the boring first sentence of a book that should be called "The Sea." It even says "bland"!
And there's the first sentence of a book called "The Sea, The Sea." Whee!
Off we go, madness and horror.
Charles Arrowby, an eminent theatre artiste in his sixties, has retired to Shruff End, a ‘seaside paradise’ he owned, to write a memoir and supposedly to ‘repent of a life of egotism.’ His intended subject is his love affair with Clement Makin, a deceased, older actress and mistress who has shaped his life both professionally and personally.
He let on that ‘something happened which was so extraordinary and so horrible that I cannot bring myself to describe it even now after an interval of time...’ The memoir that Charles ends up writing is this book we are reading.
This is a wonderful novel about a playwright composing his memoirs, trying to escape to some remote outpost by the sea, only to have his former life find him again and again in hilarious, spectral, and sometimes tragic ways. An unreliable narrator so full of his own vanity, and yet so obviously frail and needy, that I was willing to follow him even when I felt sure he must be hallucinating. A remarkable narrative feat.
Who indeed.At some point of one's life, one might want to exit the theatrical world of power, jealousy, and love, and withdraw into nature to learn to be innocent and good.
Charles wants to rival James' detachment with his attachment, rival James' mountain with his sea, but at the same time he needs James's companionship and rescue.
Via Arrowby, Murdoch's prose takes on a sea-like quality, the ebb-and-flow of memories and musings churning together present and past to the point where the edges of reality and unreality begin to blur imperceptibly.
I’m fairly certain no one writes, or ever has written, exactly like Iris Murdoch.
Then, with a suddenness that was surprising, all the bits began to fall together, Charles became someone intricate and complicated and the plot started to develop into a gripping story of love, obsession, misdirection, mystery and human foibles.
If there is one thing I could say is unique in Murdoch’s writing, it is that you feel her story as much as read it.
كيف لها أن تفهم شعوره؟!و لكن هل حقا كان هوس تشارلز حبا بها، أم أنه حب للصورة التي غذاها في عقله كل هذه السنين حتى أدمنها و باتت مثل أيقونة يتعبدها، تمثالا اصطنعه من واقع ولى لم يعد له صلة به إلا تشابه الأسماء؟ "و هكذا يمكن أن يكون الناس مصادر للنور طيلة سنين في حياة الآخرين دون أن يدروا أبدا، بينما تتخذ حيواتهم مسالك أخرى مختلفة و خفية.
و سر تكرر كلمة البحر في العنوان أنه مقتبس من بيت شعر، و الذي بدوره مقتبس من صرخة السعادة بالعثور على البحر الأسود من قبل الجنود الإغريق الهائمين و نجاتهم من الموت، كما نقلها المؤرخ اليوناني زينوفونقد أحببت عوالم أيريس مردوخ هذه الروائية البريطانية، التي كانت فيلسوفة أيضا، و لذلك لن أتردد في القراءة لها ثالثة و رابعة و كلما أتيح لي...
We are used to a simplistic, nostalgic image of the dreamer, but here, Murdoch reveals the dreamer as a tyrant intrinsically opposed to life, unable to reconcile himself to it, more than ready to brutalize it if it refuses to be subordinated to his pattern.We can better understand the significance of Arrowby's character, I think, if we look at what Murdoch says in her philosophical work, The Sovereignty of Good, about what it is to learn how to really see the world:“It is in the capacity to love, that is to SEE, that the liberation of the soul from fantasy consists.
Charles Arrowby, as he portrays himself in this "autobiography" is undoubtedly as tragic, as comic, as mercurial as any of the roles he played in his successful career as a Shakespearian actor.
He has come to the English seaside to peacefully retire but instead faces a series of tumultuous derailments.
Charles is a spectacular character.
I hated him, I loved him, my feelings about him changed with every page.
Ultimately, the novel is about one man facing his past and coming to grips with the truths in his life.
It is an extraordinary novel.
I absolutely loved it!
Introduction--The Sea, The Sea
(Ticiano - Perseus and Andromeda, 1556)Ler O Mar, O Mar é, como disse a escritora Ana Teresa Pereira, "entrar num mundo desconhecido, que não se parece com nada, e ao mesmo tempo é aquele em que vivemos."O Casamento, o Ciúme, a Velhice, a Solidão, a Morte, e tudo o que é trivial na vida, Iris Murdoch transforma em excepcional.
García Marquez publicou O Amor nos Tempos de Cólera sete anos depois de O Mar, O Mar e eu diria que ele o leu, tanto a história de amor de Charles e Hartley me recordou a de Florentino e Fermina, com homens fiéis, durante dezenas de anos, ao primeiro amor.
Charles Arrowby, a theatre director, retires to a tower by the sea in order to be close to his childhood sweetheart.
The novel is narrated by Arrowby himself, who has decided to write his memoirs.
Murdoch has created a brilliant unreliable narrator in Arrowby and we, as readers, are forever straining to read between his lines.
When he sets out to destroy the marriage of his childhood sweetheart the novel takes on the allure of a thriller.
Arrowby is like an inverted 20th century Prospero, blinded by narcissism and a bullying predisposition to control everyone within his sphere of influence.
My favourite Iris Murdoch novel.
Of course Iris wants to leave too.http://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpres...------------------------Fo
And I chose this one because it was mentioned in a really nice interview with Murdoch's translator into Romanian and her friend for 25 years.What's new here (possibly in some of her other novels too, no idea!) is that Murdoch writes from a man's perspective (Charles Arrowby, retired theatre figure in his sixties).
Buuut, I would have loved the book even if Murdoch hadn't done anything else but describing Charles every day, cooking, sipping wine, going swimming and mending his house - this is how much I liked it.
On the other hand if one succeeds in completely detaching himself/herself from even loving the other, will that life on earth be equal to death?
The philosophical musings found in the novel can be at times tiring to the mind.3.
It is a novel about some moral questions.
It is a novel that speaks of a bridge between morality and a happy life.
In the same line, the novel also makes clear the harmful effects an obsession can bring to a person and to those around him.
Time makes us realise that we had been simple fools obsessed with wanton things or vanity.
Definitely not my cup of tea.
The ramblings of a completely self-absorbed, delusional and unbearably verbose person left me absolutely indifferent.
I forced myself to finish it, because I'm a sucker for self-punishment, and also because I hoped for an unimaginable twist at the finish line that would make it all worth it, but I was left none the wiser, if you don't count the bizarre self-inflicted death (not suicide though) that came out of the blue.
I suppose the author should be considered very talented, after being able to fill pages upon pages with what was essentially the same ideas, over and over again.I do hope that my next readings this year will turn out to be more satisfying...
If you ask me, there is only one good thing that can be done with food - eat it. I can never understand people talking about food, cooking it or even writing books about it. So Charles rambling for several pages about food was one big put down. And seriously the whole book seems a collection of big rambles. The plot seemed too forced. The coincidences are one too many and, apart from a few rare and scattered quotes, I seriously can't understand what got this book Man Booker prize.
I couldn't tell you why, though I do recall it being shorter and more to the point, and that at the time I felt I should read more of her earlier novels.
It tells the story (told in the first person) of recently retired actor and theater director Charles Arrowby.
It's interesting that Murdoch, who was in her late 50s when she wrote The Sea, The Sea, was also close to the age of Arrowby (60).
This was also interesting for me, at age 58, and my reading, which kept me going through the seemingly endless"Hartley" portion of the novel.
Narrated from Arrowby's point of view in a memoir-like style, we experience his ruthless, funny, and self-righteous actions and justifications - and he becomes the center of gravity and pretty much the only factor in the whole story that does feel real.In the course of the story he is visited by numerous of his artist frenemies, former lovers, and his cousin James, each of them mainly functioning as a mirror to reflect Arrowby and as a means to dive deeper into his past and his psyche.
The whole effect of all those meetings is like a house of mirrors: The reasons for and sequence of visits as well as the workings of chance encounters feel absolutely contrived, everything and everybody revolves around Arrowby.
But to be let down so abominably by Dame Iris, someone we know is capable of writing interestingly, though sometimes at the expense of prolixity.
Regrettably, in "The Sea, The Sea" we see her giving free rein to her multiple vices, with little of the compensatory acuity that is there in some of her earlier books.Poor writing choices all around.
(Basil is of course the king of herbs.) Then spring cabbage cooked slowly with dill.
Even if I could forgive Dame Iris and her editors for the astonishingly boring catalog of the dietary whims of a narcissist, those parenthetical comments ("basil is of course ...) are quite simply unpardonable.Forty pages in.
الدروس المستفادة من هذه الرواية:١- الزواج يدمر حياتك٢- التقاعد يدمر حياتكوهي رواية مهمة جدا لمن يرغب بالشفاء من الحب الأول.اعتقد ان اسم منزل (شراف إند) الذي تدور الاحداث فيه مرادف ل (بيت المجانين) في ترجمة ما.واذا انتقلنا للمراجعة الجادة فهي تبدأ هنا:أنها رواية جميلة جدا اذا استطعت ان تتجاوز ثرثرة تشارلز في فصل "ما قبل التاريخ"، وهو فصل بارد ومشتت وممل يجعلك تفكر ان تضع الكتاب جانبا لولا أن السرد ليس سيئا بالمرة، لكنك تكتشف لاحقا أن هذا الفصل له أهمية كبيرة لأنه يعطيك الاساس الذي شكل الحياة العاطفية لتشارلز.تخوض الرواية في العلاقات العاطفية أو (الحب) من وجهة نظر تشارلز، وفي حين أنها تبدأ باعلان تقاعده وانتقاله الى عزلة القرية البحرية وبيت الأشباح الذي لا يعرفه أحد "شراف إند"، لكنها تزدحم فجأة بالشخصيات النسائية، العشيقات السابقات، والعشّاق أيضا!
