https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52022.The_Way_of_Man
On the surface a simple little book; the Hassidic stories in it read like children's tales for adults.
The Way of Man, as comes to the fore, makes a rather strong break with general accepted concepts of individualism in Western society.
The individual in relation to a broader society is emphasised and he becomes, once again, a social creature.
If you can manage to internalise his message it actually does help with coping skills.
Although I never bought it as a self-help book, this book is the only book that, apart from being fun to read, made me work at being a better person.
If I were stuck on a deserted island, I would want this with me. I re-read it every few years.
incredible, i took many little unexpected breaths and they felt very significant, a sign of the continual surprise and possibility in life, i feel all opened up ! and i even feel like i have some tools to help stay this way (hopefully)
Way of man P.6 the task of man, of every man, according to Hasidic teaching, is to affirm for gods sake the world and himself and by this very means to transform both.
The essential thing is to begin with oneself, and at this moment a man has nothing in the world to care about than this beginning.
If we maintain holy intercourse with the little world entrusted to us, if we help the holy spiritual substance to accomplish itself in that section of Creation in which we are living, then we are establishing, in this our place, a dwelling for the Divine Presence.
This is my favorite book of all time.
I find myself drawn to its 50 pages multiple times in a given year - it is the single field guide and compass that keeps me journeying in creative work and in every other form of life work.
It can be a turn-off for those who are not familiar with Hasidic thought, or for those who have no taste at all for any sort of Judeo-Christian philosophy on one's place in the world, I have my own issues with that - but I think if you look past that, there is an universal appeal for those who value steadfastness, going deeper within, and living life as a means of expressing the wonderful uniqueness of who one IS, and how that uniqueness helps to push the collective wheels of the world onward and onward.It is short in it's words, and quite long in it's impact.
Having read his 'I and Thou' many years ago, I was pleased to get this as a present, and I found it just as good.
Illuminante piccolo saggio etico. Offre una serie di aperture e intuizioni utili a raccordare diversi atteggiamenti religiosi. Una piccola baia di acque calme e rassicuranti.
Piccola perla di umanità. Imperdibile.Da conservare nel cuore.
The sangha read this beautiful little book together.
Wonderfully transformative.Just goes to show, it only takes 33 pages to write a masterpiece.
Uma leitura mais leve do Buber depois do meu fracasso ao tentar ler o pesadíssimo Eu e Tu. É um excelente primeiro contato, pena que é um livro tão curto!
Quello di Buber è un libro che in poche ore dona quel briciolo di consapevolezza in più, quello che ti fa riprendere il cammino con un po’ più di peso e di coscienza sulle spalle; è un saggio che parla al contesto particolare, è la trascrizione di una conferenza tenuta dall’autore sulla dottrina chassidica ma si rivolge a tutti, agli uomini, dal momento che siamo tutti viandanti.
Dopo aver mondato il nostro luogo e tracciato il cammino, il passo successivo e ineludibile, senza il quale non siamo compiuti, ci dice Buber, è l’incontro con l’altro, con il “tu”.
Sunday-school Buber–and maybe the best place to start for those not turned off by God talk. “The Way of Man According to the Teaching of Hasidism” contains Buber’s commentaries on six brief hasidic fables. These intend to prepare individuals to approach life with their whole beings and open themselves to God. Buber manages to argue for a non-prescriptive God without coming across as intellectually rudderless. Simple and good.
Great short read. Weaves chassidic tales to strong questions and actionable values in a meditation-like immersion. Worth coming back to from time to time.The Brazilian edition is good. I'd have translated some terms differently, but overall great job.
about as concise as a metaphysic can be. Also in the tradition of storytelling. Excellent
I love the wisdom found in Hasidic stories!
I really enjoyed these Hasidic tales.
Goodreads doesn't have enough stars. Book is amazing, just amazing.
Bellissimo. Farà parte del mio 2016.
Thought provoking
