https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/306399.The_Good_War
It's mostly American, but there are German, Japanese and Russian voices as well.
The second is the attitudes Americans had after the war: prosperity became a right, and confidence was very high, among women and blacks as well as veterans.
The third is the pervasive and deep racism of the Army and the U.S. Apparently white GIs told the English that blacks had tails.
The fourth theme is the distrust that Americans came to feel for their government.
And, since the book was compiled the '80s, there is a palpable sense of fatalism in many of the stories: a feeling the bomb can drop any moment.
This was a really readable history of different aspects of World War Two, covering the European and Pacific theatres, through interviews with participants and eyewitnesses. While mostly oral histories with Americans, Turkel has also interviewed people from Japan, Germany and several other countries as well.
In reading this book, one gets the impression that the average citizen was ambivalent about the war effort, and that anyone in the Army above the rank of private was a strutting martinet.While I don't doubt that any of the things that happened to these people are true, I have read enough books of similar premise to know that the vast majority of soldiers and citizens felt positive about what the Allies were doing, liked and respected their leadership, and wanted to contribute in a meaningful way to the war effort.
Terkel seems to have chosen to interview the dregs and victims rather than the average citizen or soldier.
It wasn’t until years later that I began to understand.Here he interviews soldiers, sailors, marines, men, women, Americans, Germans, Japanese… A full panoply of the participants, no matter what age, no matter at home or in battle.Studs Terkel is a maestro of the interview, and of editing it afterwards.
He turns what must have been long, rambling interviews, full of stops and starts and repetitions, into smooth, easy, succinct reading.What strikes me most is how very many people speak of how WWII changed everything in the US.
How we lost our innocence about the world and about war.
In ‘The Good War’ he continues the genre with short interviews of anywhere from a couple paragraphs to 5 or so pages in length, short and potent, of what folks did during World War 2 or how it affected their lives afterward.
I more enjoyed the talks with the ‘regular’ folks whose stories were a bit less organized, staccato remembrances, as if you could see them remembering as they spoke.
Published in 1984, the folks in ‘The Good War’ are about the age of my Grandparents, Uncles, later, some coworkers, so I often felt I was listening to their stories.
My 89 year-old grandfather Joe fought in the war, and I know he's told me a few war stories before, but I'm sad that I can only remember one:Joe was the head of his infantry, and his little group had gotten their jeeps stuck in a muddy ditch outside of base.
A general from base was calling for their men to report back for lunch in the mess hall.
The men were scared shitless, and apparently got their jeeps out of the mud in less than a minute after that.
An important, indispensable book that should be required reading.
Terkel interviews a wide spectrum of people and gathers their reflections and experiences regarding World War II and the aftermath.
The range of people is remarkable.
We hear from GIs, Rosie the Riveters, scientists that helped make the A-Bomb, Japanese-Americans that were interred here in the U.S., and many, many other eyewitness accounts to history.
Terkel does not paraphrase; the text retains the actual words of these individuals.
The organization is basically chronological but felt a little scattered a times.
The dates of the interviews would also be helpful.
Amazing reading.
Want to know how we fought Nazis since things are starting to look a little Nazi-like? Fearing a totalitarian regime and fascism? Want to know how Americans of all walks of life came together and what came out of that? This book is filled with their personal stories. Studs Terkel is the man, he won the Pulitzer for this, and you should read it at least once in your life.
And the magic of Terkel's oral histories is that while we know that the raw material must be just that--oral transcripts of interviews--the finished product feels both less edited somehow, like snatches of kitchen table conversations, and more profound because of it.
He includes military, political, and business leaders where appropriate, although none of the biggest names; perhaps he couldn't get access to them in the unfiltered way he wanted, or perhaps he felt they already had sounding boards in other forums, but it would add to the value of "Good War" as a historical record if he could have gotten those leaders around the kitchen table.
Even with seventy million deaths and enough Nazis to suit the most avid fan playing on your mind, you’d be hard-pushed to actually argue against those glorious six years, when the peoples of the world – including, almost certainly, some of your older relatives – stood up to the leviathan of pure evil with technical know-how and humble grit.
Was Nagasaki necessary?These questions – and a whole lot more – are what struck me most when I made my way through Studs Terkel’s compelling 1984 chronicle of recorded interviews, “The Good War.” By the way, those are his semi-sarcastic quotation marks hugging the title, not mine.
I was afraid of discovering that World War Z was derivative with respect to The Good War, though: get a great classic of the New Journalism, change names, substitute "World War II" with "World War Z", zombies instead of the Nazis and there you are served the book.Of course, The Good War too is a collection of interviews with survivors or vets from the World War II.
Then I consolidated the belief that Brooks did a great and original job: World War Z is not derivative.
So many years in history classes left me with no real sense of the war - and I certainly couldn't be bothered to remember if the Battle of the Bulge was after D-day or what...
These first hand accounts from all walks of life is a comprehensive overview of people who lived through World War Two. Almost every account challenges the idea of the war as the good war, thus the quotes in the title. Everything from a conscientious objector, to women who worked in factories, POW's, Bomber pilots, Japanese-Americans who were in the camps and more. You'd be hard pressed to find a voice not included here. Great for helping to understand society during the war.
Really 4.5, but I think the ending - the bits with the baby boomers and then the kids - were less interesting to me (it's also really interesting to compare the world in the early 80s, when this was written, and now; the economic problems persist, but I don't think we fear full-on nuclear war in the same visceral way). There also wasn't a lot from before the US entered the war. But overall, a genuinely moving read.
Truly excellent oral history. This is a collection of skillfully elicited accounts of the World War Two stories covering the lives of men and women from all walks of life. Studs Terkel was just an amazing historian and interviewer. These histories will give a personal touch to your knowledge of the war to end all wars.
I was fascinated by this book-- so much depth, so many points of view. A must-read for anyone interested in WWII (or American History). Too bad Studs T. wasn't around throughout history to cherry-pick interviews with major and minor players-- wouldn't it be fascinating to read real oral histories of Napoleon's wars, Roman invasions, etc?
I am not objective about the late great Studs Terkel. I miss him. Why couldn't he have stuck around another 50 years or so? Here is another example where Terkel lets the voices of other people shine through.
A rather excellent book, gives you a look at the staggering amount of different ways that WWII affected people. It was a bit US-centric, but did have a few other perspectives.
This book came out in 1984. I remember it. Although I like the history of World War II, I didn’t read it. I was in the middle of raising three children with my wife and building a stable work career. Yet, I cannot remember why I didn’t read the book. I wish I had.  The book is a collection of oral histories in roughly chronological order. Included are a number of recognizable individuals, but most are just common, average people. All were caught up in the war. In most cases it was involuntary.
Although I like the history of World War II, I didn’t read it.
Yet, I cannot remember why I didn’t read the book.
There are themes that come through among the diversity of the participants, but in the final analysis each individual had unique experiences and perspectives.
These themes persist throughout the book:*The war was disruptive no matter where you lived.*Allied propaganda demonizing the Axis powers was highly successful.
Veterans tended to support the bombings because they ended the war quickly.
If you have a tendency to view World War II through rose colored glasses, this is a worthwhile read.
It covers a staggering spectrum of wartime life - spies, soldiers, factory workers, military police, children, singers, generals, sailors, logistics workers, conscientious objectors, nuclear bomb survivors and prisoners of war.
The book is also easy to read because it moves quite quickly - each voice gets about 15 pages maximum - and each story is unique and important in its own way.
The author's commitment to the subject and the breadth and depth of his work shine through in this unique version of historical recollection.In this book you will hear genuine stories of wartime told in the voices of those who lived through it.
"The Good BOOK" The late, great author Studs Terkel's Pulitzer Prize winner contains an enlightening account World War II, seen only through survivors' eyes.
The accounts contain information that illustrates the war's necessity, the war's empathy, the war's inhumanity.
This organization lends balance to the individual portraits and helps readers make their own judgments.A small sample: "This neighbor told me that what we needed was a damn good war, and we'd solve our agricultural problems.
And I said, 'Yes, but I'd hate to pay for it with my son.
'It's too much of a price to pay.' "
Barbarism, sacrifice, misery, kindness - this book holds a repertoire of what mankind is capable of doing.
It is a compilation of hundreds of experiences from WW2 survivors, on how they shaped the war, or how the war shaped their lives.
Soldiers.
Generals.
Intelligence.
Cartoonists.
Prisoners of War across the world.
The physicists who made the atomic bomb.
The scale is just unbelievable, and what you are left with is a sense, that is deeply unsettling at times and indicative of what wartime is like.
I knew very little about the World War before this book, so needless to say, this was hard-hitting.
The book is well-written and it will give you a clearer and better perspective on a subject you probably learned about in the last 3 weeks of history class in high school.
The stories will resonate with you and many times I had to stop reading and pick up another book or magazine because I felt the emotional impact that strongly.
This forces us to remember that everyone who is our "enemy" was once someone's baby, someone's father, brother, uncle, lover, cousin..etc.
There are real people with real thoughts and real feelings inside those uniforms and helmets and behind those guns.
An extraordinary book and richly deserving of its Pulitzer Prize. Reading the perspectives and histories of such a wide assortment of men and women- from admirals to an Andrews Sister, from relief workers to African-American soldiers who suffered racial discrimination- it all makes history come alive in a way it should but seldom does. As Kipling said: "If history were taught in the form of stories, it would never be forgotten."
Oral histories of a varied cast of characters participating in WW2. Brings out the human perspective in the retelling of history. The overarching conclusion is that war, regardless of scale, is senseless.
Good overall, but much too long. It's as if this guy set out to everyone in the world and talk about the war. Could easily have been edited down by 100 pages without losing much. Lots of repetitive stories. Interesting, but too much.
Read 50%, great content but longer than I was looking for.
It was called "The Legion of Saint George", though he doesn't know anyone who would join it.On the one hand, the Second World War was the closest the United States has ever gotten to a Soviet-style planned economy and controlled society with the government curtailing freedom (most egregiously, interning all Japanese Americans from the West Coast in camps) and pouring out propaganda through all media, such as films.
An African American asks, "Do you realize that most blacks don't believe the atom bomb would have been dropped on Hiroshima had it been a white city?" A nuclear engineer was stunned that the army decided to drop the bomb on a city of a hundred thousand instead of a naval base; his boss said, "What the hell, they're just Japs.
An indispensable work. A straightforward oral history of World War II, from the grunts to the top brass, from women at the factories to women at home, from Japanese-American internees to war profiteers, from FDR's bureaucrats to Red Cross workers.The quote marks around "The Good War" are not accidental. To wit: For the old Iowa farmer, it was something else. Oh yes, he remembered the Depression and what it did to the farmers: foreclosures the norm; grain burned; corn at minus three cents a bushe
A straightforward oral history of World War II, from the grunts to the top brass, from women at the factories to women at home, from Japanese-American internees to war profiteers, from FDR's bureaucrats to Red Cross workers.The quote marks around "The Good War" are not accidental.
Oh yes, it changed with the war.
"World War Two changed everything," says the retired admiral.
Before World War Two, this never happened.
World War Two changed all this."
The bomb did not end the Japanese war.
In the early days, some of these industrialists wouldn't sign major military contracts until they had the right kind.
"Gagasan dasarnya adalah penulisan sejarah harus lebih dari sekedar cerita tentang para presiden, raja-raja, menteri, pemerintah; sejarah juga harus bicara tentang orang biasa, pemikiran, sudut pandang, dan perasaan mereka." (Penebalan oleh saya).
Cerita yang berulang dari narasumber yang sama yang dilakukan dalam beberapa kali kunjungan bisa jadi akan terjadi.
Seperti pernah yang saya rasakan dalam buku The Other Side of Silence: Voices from the Partition of India.Dari semua hal tentang Studs Terkel yang disebut oleh John Roosa dkk sebagai salah satu sejarawan lisan yang paling terkenal dan produktif di Amerika Serikat.
