https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/185910.Silent_Partner
I've re-read some of the earlier books so many times but not when I was reviewing, so had to fix that otherwise they get confused in my head.
After the beginning takes off (it takes awhile to actually get to the mystery), the book is almost 500 pages and so layered with information in the second half it will take a few more hours to read.
Worth every minute for enjoyment sake, but the mystery does become a bit confusing.
I started getting confused on some of the names thrown around by the end of it.
Look, I like Jonathan Kellerman.
Generally, the mystery itself keeps me turning the pages quickly, and the characters have at least one interesting/unique quality that I am curious to understand better.
The plot was quite far-fetched, and the scenes between Dr. Delaware and femme fatale Sharon were uncomfortably detailed and uncomfortably frequent.
But after a while, it was like, "OK, Mr. Kellerman, I think there's supposed to be an actual plot in there too.
If you could just, you know, attend to that?
Thanks."I don't know.
Meanwhile, I'm going to look elsewhere for my next mind-bending mystery.
I was tempted to abort many times as I was getting tired of the many sexual reminiscences (and more explicit than is usual for this genre) but, to my disgust, kept listening.This was not (to my disappointment) a thriller in the same vein as a police procedural and the plot wasn't centered on the supposed suicide of Sharon, an ex of Alex, but about old family secrets and intrigues, evil twin vs weird twin, sordid sex and evil therapists.
I can't wait for a good, true, police procedural like Kovac & Liska, Rizz0li & Isles or Will Trent.
Other than educating me on psychotherapy, the book stretched out so long that the mystery was not appreciated. A thought while reading: therapists seem to draw issue out to a point were, well, "Our time is up, see you next time". And the client/reader stumbles out the door, bewildered.
Child psychologist Alex Delaware was feeling in need of a comforting shoulder himself – with partner Robyn and himself struggling in their relationship, when she announced she was going away for business, he was both sad and relieved.
And at the party which he hadn’t been going to attend, but did at the last minute, seeing a previous love set his emotions running all over the place.
Milo’s sometimes-partner promised to look into it, but Alex decided to do some investigating himself.
And that headed him straight into a world of violence and horror….I normally absolutely love Jonathan Kellerman’s work – this one was the exception I’m afraid.
One was misformed at birth, two were adopted, after the mother was killed, and then separated because one was crazy and one wasn't.
Then in the end the crazy one, I think, killed herself but it was assumed the sane one had committed suicide, but then maybe she didn't.
At the end, if the sane one was still alive she went crazy.
Now, I'll admit I only read a little each night and it takes me awhile to get through a book, so maybe I just forgot all the explainations as I read.
I had stopped reading Jonathan Kellerman as they were getting to all be the same. Picked this up in the free pile in Bali. And I could hardly put it down! As all his books, pretty unlikely story, but the twinships and the mystery of it all kept me riveted.
This wasn't my favorite novel. It was a short book. As embarrassing as it is I actually got lost as to who was who. Their were a lot of characters that popped up and not a lot of time to explain. I still enjoyed the story line.
Excellent Book. Loved It. 🌟🌟🌟
Jonathan Kellerman writes psychological thrillers grounded in his decades of professional experience as a child psychologist.
This is the cast of continuing characters in Kellerman’s long-running series of thrillers.Childhood trauma and dueling psychologistsIn Silent Partner, the fourth novel in the series, Alex finds himself in conflict with Paul Kruse, a rival psychologist whom he considers a fraud and a pornographer.
Along the way, he uncovers tragic secrets in the lives not just of Sharon Ransom but of other key characters in the case.Silent Partner is an outstanding psychological thriller, grounded in professional expertise, plotted with great skill, and imbued with suspense from beginning to end.
It was fascinating seeing this "other side" of Delaware and learning more about his past and about some of his issues, taking the "good guy" persona and really opening it up.
(view spoiler)[Each book so far has closed with the unveiling of a giant, far-reaching conspiracy of some kind, usually stretching across decades of time.
I find it interesting though that I can think of other series (namely, the Dirk Pitt novels by Clive Cussler) that wrap up in a similar manner with every book, but somehow, those don't bother me in this way.
Cussler's stories are so over-the-top there is nothing else I can do but just sit back and enjoy the ride.
I am a Jonathan Kellerman fan and enjoy the Alex Delaware books - it is this reason that I decided to go back to the very beginning and read the Alex D series from the start.I have read later Alex D books so I thought it would be interesting to start from the beginning and see the character develop, the relationships, etc.
I've read the first 4 books now and I'm going to have to take a break.
These early Alex D books do not read as easily as the later books.
I want to like Jonathan Kellerman's writing; I really do.
He's highly touted, and he's a psychologist who writes crime fiction, so I should like him...but I don't.
He's like Dan Brown (whose writing I also don't like) in that his books are full of himself, and he likes himself A LOT.
My tongue strained my teeth like a snake in a jar.Seriously, this comes dangerously close to, "The flower of his manhood filled the room..."The man does have his fans, but so far, I'm definitely not one of them.
Alex and Robin are on a break- when Alex reluctantly attends a party for a former colleague and runs into a former girlfriend.
Sharon is as sexy as ever, but due to her former head games, Alex avoids her.
When she is found dead the next day, he is racked with guilt and investigates.
When I originally read this years ago, I laughed at the *spoiler* triplet twist (really?!) that he uncovers.
In this book, Alex is more vulnerable than usual and is messed up by the revelation, so he doesn't reconcile with Robin due to his issues and the story is more open ended than usual.
After reading book #7 in this series, I felt like I didn't know Alex Delaware very well. That has certainly changed after reading Silent Partner! It provides quite the window into his psyche. It's also a good mystery. Through the myriad of psychological disorders on display here, there is a pretty good story. Though, it's also pretty messed up! You really feel for Alex at the end. The mystery-solving psychologist definitely becomes very human.
I couldn't wait to finish this book! I had just read Kellermans latest book and loved it so I thought I'd read all his books. Not happening. It's like a completely different writer wrote this book. Although the author has creative use of adjectives, there's just too much description about unimportant things. It was a beating!
8/10. To ir nudien jālasa vairāk kā vienu reizi, un arī tad parādās grūtības izsekot tam kurš no tēliem ir kurš. Jo, ja pirmo trešdaļu liekas, ka tā ir viena, tad pēc puses, tās ir divas, bet pašās beigās tās nu jau ir trīs. Un lasi no sākuma.
Gratuitous sex, multiple storylines, gratuitous writing. This book was written to pay the bills
Good read. Lots of surprises.
I think I'm beginning to stand by my initial thought that Jonathan Kellerman is not very good at writing female characters.
His girlfriend Robin was in particular bland in this book, conveniently needing space and disappearing during the exact time that Dr. Delaware's ex comes into the picture leaving him free and clear to mess around with her without any real guilt.Then of course, there was the opposite end of the spectrum: the really oversexed female character.
I just think maybe Jonathan Kellerman needs to work on writing more believable female characters, or just remove them altogether, hint at their presence.
Because the narrator takes care to depict only his interpretation of actions and dialogue of an old love interest, the reader needs to work to determine what is truth, what is falsehood, and what is embellishment.
Normally, I read past these errors, but in a book that requires active participation on the part of the reader, misplaced modifiers achieve undue significance.I still don't understand one part of the denouement, where the protagonist tells a character he is now seeing a certain side of that character.
I loved this book and the way it made me work!
Another three star effort from Jonathan Kellerman.The protagonist, Alex Delaware, runs into an old flame, psychologist Sharon Ransom, at a party.
Despite the fact that he had once dumped her because she was a psycho hose-beast, it turns out that he and Robin, his most recent girlfriend, are conveniently ‘on a break,’ so he agrees to a future lunch date with Sharon.
After the party, guilt sets in, and he calls and cancels the date via voice message, and the next day Sharon kills herself with pills and a bullet to the head.Delaware is so distraught that he failed to help her, that he dives headlong into trying to determine why she killed herself.
I read this book many years ago (mid nineties) and I remember liking it then and I enjoyed rereading recently.
I have to admit I have never been a fan of Robin so I always end up liking the books she is mostly absent from more.
I kinda of liked Sharon, though she was sincerely messed-up, and was kind of sorry she never ended up in any of the other books.
Needless to say the book still held my interest till the end.I think my favourite part of all of the Delaware books is Milo and Alex friendships which is a bit muted here.
For me, it's my first book by this author, so I am looking forward to find more.Pros- good descripti
Some people do not like Kellerman's deep descriptions but I really do love the complete picture that he paints.
In typical Kellerman fashion there is a massive amount of characters involved in the plot so keeping everyone straight can be difficult.
There was not as much Milo in this one but it truly was Alex Delaware's exploration into his past which lead him in some very dark directions.
This past includes good times and dark times of which Alex must balance his curiosity and embarrassment of who really was Sharon.
This is an interesting modern take on the "noire gumshoe," with a wonderfully twisted femme fatale.
Alex Delaware is a burnt out psychologist and modern man with lot's of depth, and his psyche is explored extensively here.
Yes, it starts out slow and becomes very complex, with layers of LA corruption involving police, starlets, billionaires, and Alex.
The femme fatale concept is taken new places here; read to learn!
Female clinical grad students can be brilliant, lovely, and devious.
This novel is the fourth in the series, one of the early passionate novels, before the stories became smoother and routine in their own way.
I loved it!
Like other novels in the Alex Delaware series this one moves right along but the ending is a bit forced and convoluted. This character came along 8 years before James Patterson started writing about another shrink in law enforcement - Alex Cross. Wonder where the idea came from? At any rate, Delaware is a complex character and is best enjoyed by getting to know him, his sidekick and his love interest by reading some of the earlier works. I think this one is #27 and I have read of listened to most of them.
Sometimes the past is not how it appears. Sometimes it comes back to bite you. In this edge of your seat plot twister I was sucked into a murder/suicide mystery. I loved the not quite knowing what was going on, the internal turmoil of the hero and his dysfunctional relationships with himself. This is one of the best novels in this series. The hero is not perfect and begins to question everything, which makes him so much more human. I loved the fact that up until the very end, I had no idea who dun it!flag
Weird stuff. As I've read these first four books in the Doctor Alex Delaware series, I've been thinking this doctor needs to heal himself. In Silent Partners what has been implicit is now explicit - Delaware is not OK. While he manages to solve mysteries, including this one involving an old girlfriend and an intricate past, he has been acting more out of control in each book, more obsessive and depressed. So, in pursuing justice and closure for his patients and friends, he finds himself coming apart. Very gothic story.
4 Stars! ~~ This Alex Delaware is a little different. A love interest from Alex's past has supposedly committed suicide and Alex finds himself examining the past and what he finds leads him to a puzzle his obsessive mind cannot let go until he's found the last piece. We see dynamics to Alex not explored before and his relationship with Robin is on the rocks. I love the twists and turns this story takes
