https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/175824.Gone_Away_Lake
4.5 STARSAn utterly charming story of one splendid summer when two children discover the dilapidated remnants of once-splendid summer homes along the shore of Gone-Away Lake.
A summer of summery nature exploration and little adventures and historical discovery awaits!I really enjoyed this story.
While television and movies and my own parents make the '50s seem far less distant, I am still stuck by how different our summers are today from those the children enjoy in the story.
Few children now have the freedom to explore woods and lakes on their own or turn dilapidated summer mansions into their clubhouse.
And can I say how much I loved the fact that the kids are fascinated by all the antique things they find at Gone-Away, and by listening to Mr. Payton and Mrs. Cheever's stories of their Victorian-era childhoods, instead of sniffing at it all as old-fashioned?It's refreshing to read a children's book where the kids' parents and other adults are nice people whom they love; and which celebrates such simple pleasures as the happiness of playing outside on a perfect summer's day.
It probably says volumes about my childhood that this book, with the secret Victorian ghost town on a bogged-up lake, is one of my most treasured memories. A secret clubhouse in a falling-down mansion? License to forage among the other houses? Trunk after trunk of treasures, everything from clothes to seashells to a moosehead? Oh, yeah, I was so right there with Portia and her family. I'm so happy they've re-issued this, and kept all the original illustrations.
Charming, sweet, and the perfect summer book; it's very pleasurable reading and just a lovely, wonderful tale of a delicious summer.
Struggling to get into this one which was a huge surprise and disappointment after enjoying the Melendy books so much. Will give it a break and come back to this.
But, when the lake dried up, the town lost its luster and was soon forgotten.Or was it?While a good bit of the fun of this tale is the exploration of these old houses and the land around them, I equally enjoyed the chapters with the elderly brother and sister (Mrs. Cheever and Mr. Payton) who the cousins happen upon that still live at Gone-Away Lake.
Part children's adventures & friendships, and part reflections by the Mrs. Cheever and Mr. Payton about Gone-Away Lake in its prime, I loved the simple (though not simplistic) style and approach to this story.
It has gone away, and is now a swamp.The most interesting finding of all, however, is that two elderly people—and old man, Mr Pindar Payton, and his even more eccentric sister, Mrs. Minnehaha Cheever, who once knew this place in its prime, are living here.
Eventually, Portia and Julian will make their own special place in this unusual world, where nature thrives even as the human marks on the landscape fade.Those who have read and loved Enright’s Melendy family books will recognize many of the same winning elements here—from adventures and discoveries in the natural world to lovely, precise descriptions of flora, fauna, and the weather.
This is my all-time favorite book. What began as a summer read after fourth grade has turned into a career, a passion and a huge part of myself. This book not only made me fall in love with Victorian houses, but also with childrens' books, art, historic preservation and any old decrepit house I happened to see! Eilizabeth Enright is one of those long-lost jewels in the library that everyone has forgotten. Her books are wonderful.
In this book, published in 1957, Portia and her cousin Julian, exploring the woods near Julian's new house, discover Gone-Away Lake, which is actually a vast swamp.
Portia and Julian meet an elderly brother and sister who spent their childhood summers by the lake, and in old age have moved back to lead simple reclusive lives in the falling apart houses.
I can tell that it's been a long time since I last read it, because as I did so, all kinds of questions came into my mind that never had before: could a lake drain as Tarrigo did, without anyone ever really knowing why?
Portia and her younger brother Foster always go to stay with their aunt and uncle and cousin Julian for three months in the summer.
This year, Portia and Julian’s wanderings bring them to a lost holiday “colony” of houses that were once lovely homes along a lake shore, but when the lake dried up, everyone moved away.
For example: Portia thinks a lot about Julian and how great he is on the train ride there, and I really thought it was leading up to him having changed and being "grown-up" and boring, but no, he's exactly as she remembers him.
And I find it interesting that it's been a year and a day since I last listened to this.09/13 Howling wildernessess!
Inner pie!
How do I love this book?
Having it on audio to listen to while I fall asleep is so splendid I can't begin to say.
12/12 Revisited this all-time favorite on audio during a road trip.
He loved it- to no one's surprise.
What's not to love?
It's hilarious, it's poignant, it's got howling wildernesses, outer space and inner pie.
It's got The Gulper.
(Except that in this book when they say cottages, they mean gigantic Victorian mansions.) But when the lake dried into a swamp, all the residents moved away, leaving their grand homes to be overtaken by blackberry bushes and vines.
The story really gets interesting when Portia and Julian meet two elderly residents of the ghost town, still living there alone.
To find out what happens to the characters, and to the ghost town of Gone Away Lake, you need to read not only this book, but also its sequel, Return to Gone Away.
Which it is.Coming to this straight from a re-read of Maud Hart Lovelace's Betsy-Tacy books, I find myself unsurprised that I grew up with a deep and abiding love for the written word.
As a kid, I was reading some fine, fine writers all unaware.
Not a lake any more, but a swampy, boggy ruin inhabited by two of the most delightful old persons ever.
Everyone should read this.
Turns them into howling wildernesses.""He was a tall boy with curly brown hair; he was going to be very handsome, but he didn't know it yet.
I was surprised how much I enjoyed Gone Away Lake, considering that it lacked most of the things I require in a book. There was little or no plot, no tragedy or mystery or fighting, and no bad guys, and it was just a happy little book. Which I don't normally love. But somehow this was great. 🤔

Enchanting and delightful! I was totally caught up in these youngsters adventures at Gone-Away Lake. The older couple, Pindar and his sister Minnehaha, were a wonder for their age and how they lived so independently, almost reclusive. As a child who hasn't imagined living in an abandoned house, gathering your own furnishings, and playing unsupervised?! The relationships between siblings and cousins, young folks and old folks, city versus country in a simpler time made the book an absolute pleasure to read!
My oldest dd loved this! :)
When Portia and her brother visit their relatives in the country they knew they were going to have fun! They just didn't know how much fun! One day Portia and her cousin Julian were off exploring when they discover a ghost town at the edge of a luscious swamp! Most surprising of all were the two elderly people that still lived there. They were as delightful as can be and the children enjoyed their friendship. Now began the adventures in the best summer the children ever had!
I stayed up late reading with my nightlight every night to finish this one as a kid.
In this book, there's no harm in meeting two reclusive adults who made a home in this abandoned once-rich neighborhood, among Victorian houses and wondrous flora.
Don't you miss those days when you don't have to think about social predators?Aunt Minnehaha (what kind of name is that, anyway?) and Uncle Payton are two good-natured adults who came back to they're childhood neighborhood to get away from it all.
Aunt Minnehaha and Uncle Payton even dress like Victorian people.
At Gone-Away Lake, as their friends Aunt Minnehaha and Uncle Pindar call it, Portia and Julian discover life as it was 50 years ago, while having their own summer of modern-day adventures they will never forget.In this book, as in The Saturdays, Elizabeth Enright celebrates childhood independence.
Especially interesting about this story are the connections Portia and Julian feel to Minnehaha and Pindar as children.
I also couldn't help but feel that Minnehaha and Pindar were living like Miss Havisham - waiting for the return of a day that would never be again.
Aunt Minnehaha and Uncle Pin, as Portia and Julian begin to call them, tell wonderful stories of their childhood when Gone-Away was still Tarrigo, a lake surrounded by beautiful summer homes.
The story of the knife and the buttonhook is one I really love, and Mrs. Brace-Gideon's summer cats.Portia and Julian have their own adventures exploring Gone-Away, and Portia's brother Foster is not left out either.
Falling in the Gulper, the thunderstorm at Craneycrow, the Machine, A.P. Decoction, the Philosopher's Club, the Gulper Bridge...it's such a wonderful and eventful summer.The characters are so well drawn, from Portia and Julian to Baby-Belle Tuckertown and Mrs. Brace-Gideon.
I do vividly recall wishing as a child that there was an abandoned house somewhere near where I lived that was sound enough still for me to clean up and take over as my own clubhouse like Portia and Julian get to do in this book.
I love old, neglected houses in a "let me rescue it and give it love" sort of way, and I see now that this book certainly fed into that, though I can't tell if it caused that interest.Anyway, this book is about two cousins, Portia and Julian, who go tramping around in the woods and stumble on an abandoned cluster of summer homes.
I really thought I might have read this when I was younger and that I would remember once I started reading.
But no, I had never read this before.
It's a shame that I never did because I would have loved this when I was younger!
I enjoyed it a lot now as an adult.
I'm grateful that this won a Newbery honor so that I eventually got around to reading it!
Now I need to find a copy of the sequel, Return to Gone-Away.Just a note - the illustrations seemed instantly familiar, but I couldn't remember from where.
They added a lot to my enjoyment of the story.
Portia and her cousin Julian discover a hidden abandoned village dating from the turn of the century--the 20th century!
They are flabbergasted to discover that two of the houses are still occupied by a brother and sister who were among the original occupants of Tarrigo.
They make a clubhouse in another abandoned home, and soon other friends and relatives get in on the secret.
This book is full of fascinating details about the old houses and their furnishings, and of the children's interest in the natural world that surrounds Tarrigo as well.
This was a book I found on the shelves at my new school. I hadn't read it and thought I'd give it a try. The writing was beautiful and flowy but then red flags popped up as I continued to read. "Quiet like an Indian" to describe her cousin as he snuck through the forest and "Black as a Sambo" when her cousin fell into a marsh. The list goes on... Maybe it squeaked by as okay in 1957 but it's not today. Bye-bye Gone-Away Lake. You have been officially discarded.
I love this book so much, oh so much, and I have since I first read it at age 8. For my money, Elizabeth Enright was one of the most gifted children's authors of the 20th century - in this book she not only creates the ultimate dream summer, she also effortlessly captures the way that summer feels (particularly when one is 11 years old and every day is full of possibility).What a wonderful start to 2017!
I don't know how I managed to miss this Newbery Award book when I was growing up, but I'm fairly sure I've never read it before. It's a charming story about children in the 1950s discovering the remnants of a bygone era...their time at Gone-Away almost has the feeling of time travel. The characters are charming, and believable.
Read for the 2015 YA/MG Book Battle.Read my original review and decision here.
Read this in one big gulp. Fun story of summer adventure. I'll pass this along to my oldest.
