https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12362430-the-drought
Channel your interior Robbie Krieger and prepare for pondering The End. No.
I don’t mean David Beckham’s retirement, but rather closing time, like permanently.
One of my criticisms of The Road was its attempt to capture the After with an almost biblical gravity of language.
J.G. Ballard appears too savvy for those traps.
His exploration is empty.
Life is vast and bleak.
It isn’t going to rain anymore.
We’re sure as hell Doomed, done for.
Experiences don’t amount to much anymore.
I wouldn’t waste any time on Hope either.
After the end is always the challenge.
Like The Drowned World this early Ballard novel is visiting through fiction the experience of a world turned upside down that is described in Empire of the Sun. Or to be slightly different, applying the understanding that gave him and trying to share that with others through fiction.
You think you know the world, says Ballard, it looks familiar, comprehensible, yes?
In these earlier novel it is the familiar environment taken for granted which Ballard shows as treacherous, later he shifts to portray human society as having through its own operations a natural tendency to dehumanise.
The strangest aspect, though, is not that tension, but the general ellipticness of and hazyness of the storytelling, the characters are inscrutable gamepieces, tracing shapes through the dust which only they can read, while the terms of the disaster are both world-scale and nearly generational, while constricted within a narrow stretch of land devoid of context after the basic setup.
But it's Ballard's first published novel, I believe, of many, so I'll have plenty more stabs at this.Oh, and like all of Ballard, or so I hear, societal collapse is never far off, it only needs a little push.
Its dual identity added about five minutes onto my Google search for a cheap secondhand copy, but when the package arrived I still felt like I'd gotten my hands on some arcane relic, valuable only to those who know its thematic connection to Ballard's other novel, The Drowned World.
For me, reading a Ballard book can sometimes become a treasure hunt as I pinpoint moments that have been directly inspired by the traumatic period he lived through.One such moment is at the forefront of my mind when I think about The Drought:The leading man nurses some affection for a woman in their camp.
This Ballards postapocaliptic novel follows to the The Drowned World and as this previous is on a environemental catastrophe,but this time is a human pollution caused.As in other postapocaliptic novels we can see a lost of civilization values,a social regression to small groups of almost hunters-gatherers and also a distortion of the perceived space and time and in some the sense of his own identity.There are few emotional links and little psichological intronspectionBut where Ballard is great is in describing the dry,arid,desolated infinite landscapes with a neat prose full of beautiful metaphores,a novel rather of images.
Skimmed this pretty heavily. I love Ballard's descriptions and scientific speculations, but he always seems to fail me when it comes to character or plot. But descriptions and speculation are enough to validate a read anyways :)
All were classified as science fiction in the 1960s but these days would be practically contemporary fiction.The Drought was originally titled The Burning World when first published in 1964.
As you might expect, no one behaves well but Ballard seems always to provide at least one rugged or determined character who one way or another prevails.The cause of the drought is industrial waste changing the atmospheric conditions over the oceans.
If you have ever wondered what it would be like to run out of water, Ballard makes it quite real.Basically a whole lot of people die along with animals and plants, the rest fight over shrinking food supplies, hoard water or go quietly insane.
IIRC, it starts out with the realization of what's going on just beginning to grip the populace of a British suburb, and then at mid-book jumps ahead a number of years to the dessicated, blasted future where rag-tag groups skate across vast salt plains looking to harvest what water they can find, and follows our group of varied characters back to the suburb they once left.
As with DROWNED and CRYSTAL, it's yet another iteration of Ballard's musings on Conrad's "Heart of Darkness", with the crazy, decadent rich guy in the Kurtz role.Didn't like it as much as DROWNED OR CRYSTAL, but more than WIND FROM NOWHERE.
Soon Ransom is left only with the remnants of a somewhat bullying Presbyterian minister's shotgun-toting congregation, Mr. Lomax, a possibly deranged architect expending every last bit of his resources in pursuit of what he imagines is going to be a promising future, Lomax's even more bizarre sister Miranda*, a weirdo named Quilter who runs around with a dead peacock hanging off his belt, and Ransom's friend, Philip Jordan, a strange, silent young man of about 20 whose whole life was spent mucking about in the water until the water started to go.And then there's the fishermen, whether bent over a beached boat "like widows over a coffin", standing mutely, hats in hands, at the back of Reverend Johnstone's church, or rampaging through the streets with nets like toreadors, become fishers of men for their own quixotic crusade, because Larchmont isn't nearly sad or Lovecraftian enough yet.
Science fiction turning into science fact, in some weird inversion of time and reality, like something straight out of Ballard's writing.It's hard not to think of the thin line between our own world and the one depicted here--a harrowing, post-apocalyptic dystopia drowning in dust and bleached fish bones, ruined by humanity's careless pollution of the seas.
Whereas "The Drowned World" had only one enigmatic female character who acts as some kind of hesitant love interest for the male protagonist, this novel has at least four.
Of the two I think I like "Drowned World" more, for its tighter writing and its concept of the "archaeo-psychic past" embedded in our collective memory.
#2 in my Ballard Binge.
The Drought is almost exactly the same book as the book that preceded it, The Drowned World, except, as the titles suggest, the first novel's apocalypse is caused by too much water, and the next novel's apocalypse by not enough.
As with the last novel, this novel reminded me of Poe at his most hysterical.
It also made me nostalgic for a time when novelists were allowed time to develop their craft--these early Ballard novels are adjective-laden morasses of hokey fun.
This book is meant to be a follow on story from The Drowned World but in fact it's filled with the same protagonist, characters and location as The Drowned.
At first I thought I had it wrong and I was actually reading the same book, but the larger story is different even though there are a lot of the same themes addressed in this one.
The writing is still brilliant and the concept of a world wide drought consuming the planet after all rainfall has stopped, is in fact very insightful considering it was written in 1961.
Given that plots and conceits can often just be skeletons for Ballard to hang his singular language and obsessions atop, this didn’t seem an unlikely supposition.
However, what surprised me was how often The Drought resembles a Ballardian crack at the Southern Gothic novel.The setting of a small riverside town, populated with grotesques (including that favorite southern archetypes, the “idiot manchild” Quilter, who by the end of the novel has transcended his label ) with a protagonist manning a dilapidated river boat, brought to mind Cormac McCarthy’s Suttree.
Even main character Ransome, with his sun burnt taciturnity, resembles a post-Blood Meridian McCarthy protagonist.
I'm sure JG thought he was on to something that could become a huge serial and make him rich, but we are fortunate he expanded the scope of his art and of his thinking to look deeper and also eventually create better and more memorable characters.
The idea of a single cause--and I'm sure the dinosaur extinction played into the thinking then--as our doom is somewhat improbable.
He would have been better served to have imagined a catastrophic sequence of events that led to the others and written one epic disaster novel for the ages as a debut.
Ballard likes to put normal people in times of crisis and destruction, so as to explore their limits, their morals, often their humanity.
"...he now felt that the white deck of the river was carrying them all in the opposite direction, forward into zones of time future where the unresolved residues of the past would appear smoothed and rounded, muffled by the detritus of time, like images in a clouded mirror.
Perhaps these residues were the sole elements contained in the future, and would have the bizarre and fragmented quality of the debris through which he was now walking."
The last Ballard I read was "The Unlimited Dream Company." That book was amazing.
His sentence structures never attracted me to his writing and honestly, sometimes his use of similes becomes quite annoying (especially when too many end the paragraphs).
What attracts me to his books are simply his stories.
"The Drought" didn't have all that-until the end.
Parts two was ok and three was really classic Ballard with the obese character or Miranda (obese from a steady diet of human flesh-a futuristic Kurtz), the swan wearing Quilter, the lion taming Catherine and above all the androgynous figure of Richard Lomax all make the end of this book very satisfying.
Read "The Day of Creation" if you're looking for a Ballard book involving a river.
This was my first Ballard and I have to say it was rather disappointing.
It is, too, one of his first novels, so that might account for the disappointment.
I thought the story was interesting and there were some promising characters but except for a few passages that seemed to flow with more ease, it was not too engaging and when it's over you wonder what the point of it all was.
Like I said, I liked the story and I think I get where he was going with the endlessly bleak narration.
Drought is a surreal tour through the end of a current Western civilization somewhere near the seashore.
Think dry, sand, thirst, hunger, when all one's time is spent merely surviving, a state common to most of human history for all but the wealthy and powerful.
Even they succumb to this global drought.
Ballard is a master at painting milieu and zombie-like emotional states.
The only real problem with the novel is the basis of the drought, but this is easily accepted and overlooked.
It has some basis in science, but seems most improbable.
This book feels very contemporary or timeless given that it was written in 1964. If you are looking for a psychological post-apocalyptic read - this is your book.
One secret to enjoying this novel is to keep all images of any Kevin Costner movie out of you mind while reading it.
No he sentido lo mismo que leyendo a Cormac McCarthy con un paisaje y mensaje similar.
Molto bello. Scritto nel 1955. Allora poteva essere fantascienza... Oggi, coi cambiamenti climatici, sta cominciando a realizzarsi. Fra cinquanta anni sarà realizzato in pieno questo scenario? Sarebbe meglio, non solo fare accordi internazionali, che poi vengono disattesi, o non più confermati ( come ha fatto Trump, USA), ma anche nel nostro piccolo, cercare di risparmiare l'acqua che è tanto preziosa.
Mannequins gaze bleakly from the windows of abandoned department stores, the eroded wrecks of ships and boats become metaphors for another theme, that of time.Ballard was always fond of beginning a chapter or a story with a reference to time, as here, when Chapter One begins:-‘At noon, when Dr Charles Ransom moored his houseboat in the entrance to the river, he saw Quilter, the idiot son of the old woman who lived in the ramshackle barge outside the yacht basin, standing on a spur of exposed rock on the opposite bank and smiling at the dead birds floating in the water below his feet.’Time is mentioned often and Ransom comes to realise that time has stripped away the superficial veneer of society from all those he knows with the peculiar exception of his wife, whose personality, so it seems, had already been whittled down to its true core before the disaster.
Nowadays, I like characterisation in a novel far too much to truly enjoy a novel built on ciphers (a Ballardian word!) for characters.
For example I can't imagine reading in somebody's blanched face "an image of [Ransom's] own future..." in which he "would have to create [a] sense of time out of landscape emerging around them".
Few people write like Ballard, and this kind of British New Wave science fiction was certainly of the time, and defined a moment in the genre -- the exploration of inner space rather than outer space -- that I enjoy.
Las novelas de Ballard suelen estar plagadas de coincidencias del tipo Deus ex machina que, en otros autores empobrecerían la narración, al grado de hacerla quedar como un artificio inverosímil.
Los personajes se encuentran constantemente en los momentos precisos, como si se llamaran o tuvieran una cualidad extrasensorial que les permitiera saber a cada momento dónde se encuentran los demás, pero estas casualidades funcionan en la obra ballardiana porque no se trata de relatos naturalistas, pese al realismo con que cuenta sus historias, sino de narraciones simbólicas, casi oníricas.
Sus escenarios representan el paisaje interior del o los personajes centrales, y las relaciones entre ellos representan las relaciones de ideas y emociones que ellos experimentan a lo largo de la narración.
We join Dr Ransom at the beginning of a mass evacuation to the coast from towns and villages everywhere.
Along with three others he ventures back to their hometown in search of the water the lion must have been drinking to get as far as the coast – a distance of about 100 miles.There they do indeed find water, along with already disturbed characters that have gone even more insane during the last 10 years of the drought - and who now brutally and violently control the remnants of the town and the water.
I can see how he would think that since there's very little Science in this book.
What he's focused on here, and he does the same thing in other books of his that I've read, is speculate on how people would react in a given disastrous situation.
In his view, people will not react well in a disaster.
Some reviews I read complained that there was no second act to the film, it just went directly to the violence when the lights go out.
There's no second act, once the disaster comes, it's survival of the fittest.
There are serious moments you think this book is really going to kick into gear and then doesn't.
Aspects of the book are unclear and at times I wasn't sure what was going on.
Also, comments on the loss of identity through the act of survival was very interesting and probably helps if you know Ballards background.For a dystopia the book does have a positive ending, which is cool, but adds very little and feels unnecessary.
I will be expecting more from my next Ballard book, as after his death he is being pushed as a major 20th century writer.
Oh but don't you understand that this apocalyptic tableau represents humanity's ceaseless struggle against its own repressed psycho-sexual longings, reflected in the eternal conflict of male vs.
Maybe that's an inappropriate metaphor for such a bone white salty dry book.
A book that is incoherent, makes no sense under it's pollution protein skin, pretends to go somewhere, then doesn't.And then it rains.The end.
So glad I finally grabbed "The Drought" or "The Burning World" (in keeping with the title "The Drowned World").
There's the similar alternate civilization like you find in "High Rise", but here instead of a tower block and the literal stratification of class, civilization is sprawled out of control as water vanishes.
The water never really goes away, but there's an environmental element at play that is really interesting.
It has some great almost the opposite of "Waterworld" meets maybe "Mad Max" kind of ideas.
Anyway there's some great characters and this weird shuffling of familial and societal relations via this tumult.
