https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77038.Hornblower_and_the_Atropos

I was a little disappointed with this Hornblower book.
Good stuff so far, but the story never really develops or picks up as it does in the other books.
Hornblower never needs to bring his ship into a desperate struggle.
And this is a disappointment.This book is really in three parts: (1) Hornblower takes over his ship, (2) Hornblower conducts a salvage operation in Turkish waters, and (3) Hornblower confronts a random Spanish frigate.
The meat of the story was really the salvage operation, but there wasn't enough tension.
Hornblower is still good stuff but I had expected a bit more.
The life of Horatio Hornblower continues.
She's a small sloop of war the very smallest ship that would require a captain to command her rather than a commander.I read many of these years ago but didn't complete the "series" of books that relate the life of our hero.
It takes place not long after the Battle of Trafalgar and the death of Nelson.While not as traditionally navel battle oriented as some of the books the plot will I believe draw you in just the same.
Also we get to know more about our developing Navel hero.Recommended.
Horatio Hornblower gets the helm of his first ship.Even though it is a small ship, and he is the junior most captain of the navy, he gets sent on an important mission, and uses his wits and guile to win the day.It is amazing to see how much the world has changed in what is an eyeblink in the cosmic sense of time.
In prior books, a big deal has been made of how long it took to beat back windward & the lack made the end of the book seem a bit sketchy.
Also, it ends on a terrible cliff hanger.On the plus side, there was a salvage operation that was quite interesting & several narrow escapes.
The audio book edition I have is read by Nicolas Coster which I couldn't take for more than 5 minutes.
Looks like he read the rest that my library has too, thankfully.
I read this about 50 years ago. The canal boat beginning has always stuck in my mind. Upon a reread, I think I now understand why Forester included this in the book. The Hornblower saga is more than a mere Age of Fighting Sail tale; Forester was also trying showing us how Britain was able to sustain a global conflict for more than 20 years against what must have looked like an unbeatable continental power.
This review is for the complete 11-book series of THE HORNBLOWER SAGA by C.S. Forester, which I just finished reading last night.[Note: Individual books have individual star ratings (mostly 5-star, a few 4-star), but the descriptive review will be the same for each, and encompass the entire series, as follows.]Actually, I just finished reading the complete series for the second time, the first being as a teenager some 30 years ago.It's remarkable to me that I have only just this moment realized that my own timeline regarding the two readings corresponds almost exactly to the age progression experienced by the main character in the course of these 11 novels.It's a 30-year journey unlike any other I have ever taken in books - full and deep and satisfying.This is the epic saga of fictional British naval hero HORATIO HORNBLOWER, who goes from a 17-year-old midshipman to a 46-year-old admiral during the "golden age of sail" which encompasses the Napoleonic Wars of the early 19th century.I'll list the 11 books in chronological order (not the order they were written), which is the best way, I believe, to read them:- MR.
3.5 starsThe period of history when Napoleon Bonaparte was marching across Europe is perhaps my favorite time for British Naval historical fiction.
The Battle of Trafalgar was a pivotal naval victory for Great Britian.
Admiral Lord Nelson was perhaps the most celebrated officer in the British navy.It is at this moment in history that Hornblower and the Atropos begins its story.
The eyes of the Admirality and all of London are on Hornblower.
Forester is a great author and Hornlower is a popular series.
That said though, this book was an enjoyable read.
S. Forester's Hornblower series is definitely worth checking out.
I was rather leery of starting in on the Hornblower series.
Without knowing anything about it aside from the period in which it was set and the period in which it was published, I had the notion it was going to be pulpy, melodramatic, and repetitious.That couldn't be farther from the truth.
In this book, as, indeed, in the whole series, Forester presents a splendidly realistic hero, full of both foibles and virtues.
His historical setting is engrossing and obviously well researched.
It still doesn't quite measure up to O'Brian's similar Aubrey/Maturin series, owing mostly to a lack of warmth in comparison, but it's absolutely worth the journey.
I’m really loving the Hornblower series.
I would have appreciated it more during my time in the Navy.
HH now with a wife and 2 children, gets a new ship, puts on a funeral for Lord Nelson, meets the King, finds treasure, trains up a German Prince to be a midshipman, outwits the Turks and Spaniards and then has to use his cutlass in close combat.
No- he loses command of the Atropos as it is given to the Sicilian Navy.
What adventures await him now that he has been sent back to England to find his children ill with the smallpox?
A fun read, like most Hornblower books.
And, like many Hornblower books, the parts are greater than the whole.
Hornblower's brilliance can begin to grate if you let it -- time after time, he comes up with solutions to seemingly intractable challenges.
In a way, this helps explain Hornblower's eternal insecurity: as a world-class whist player, he must know that he is beating the odds and that someday he's likely to guess wrong.
In fact, Forester would have written a stronger series of books if sometimes the odds HAD gone against Hornblower.
Note that, in stating when I read this book, I mean the most recent time.
Recently-promoted Captain Hornblower and his very pregnant wife travel by canal boat to London where Hornblower is to take over his first command, that of "Atropos", the smallest ship in the British navy.
In the early going, we are granted wry glimpses into Hornblower's marriage and its conflicts with his total dedication to his navy career.
As usual in this series, there is extraordinarily accurate technical nautical detail, but even if much of it is beyond the reach of the lay reader it's still clear enough to be understood in context.
Hornblower is a fascinating character, and for various reasons this is my favorite book of his so far.
But Horatio's glum pessimism (a pessimism justified by events) and morbid self-doubt and self-absorption, combined with his bravery, intelligence, and basic kindness make for a very complex and interesting character.Oh yeah, and the plot was fun and gripping.
Forester has a thing about ending on a horrible, painful note that leaves everything as a downer right after a triumph for Hornblower--I don't know if I hate it or love it, but it's very involving.
Oh hell no! Nicolas Coster's reading had me ready to cut my own throat in under 5 minutes. I gritted my teeth & concentrated more on driving hoping against all hope that it would improve. It didn't. Had to stop or my teeth were going to break.Slow, ponderous, awful!Christian Rodska read all the previous books & did a great job. Looks like he read the rest that my library has, too. I guess I'll have to get the ebook & read it.My 3 star review of the ebook version is here:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Hornblower faces domestic crisis, the tension between family and patriotic duties, threats to his career, and another great literary sea chase -- with the fine writing Forester brings. Never a dull moment.
This was fun, not bad. It's not amazing by any means, but entertaining. I'm not sure I could read the whole series without getting bored, but this isn't my first and I'm still having a decent time. Not exactly thrilled, but there we are.
249 - 2017
Another great book in the series.
Having read this book fifty five years ago I thought I'd read it again. I had the same enjoyment that I'd had when I first read the story. The author brings the characters to life and paints word pictures that fills the mind with excitement.
Bush isn't in this installation at all, and I like it less simply on account of his absence.Personal preference aside, the plot twists are inventive and exciting, the new characters are interesting if not a bit too peripheral/under-used (I was hoping to see a little more of the German prince!) and Hornblower's character development makes a lot of sense, though at times I found myself outright disliking him, which is a first for me.
The action, such as it is, comes just before the first one Forester wrote (The Happy Return) and just after the last one he finished, Hornblower and the Hotspur.
So the character has to be less experienced than in The Happy Return, but this makes him a bit naive compared with the skilled commander of the Hotspur.
And very little action takes place at sea -- just one battle skipped over so perfunctorily it is almost in the category of one bound jackery, stories where the hero Jack is in a desperate situation and then the next chapter begins "with one bound, Jack was free".
Words like episodic, entertaining and edifying: they all apply but really, if you've read any Hornblower, you'll know that already.What did I have to say that was interesting?
While it's not written in the first person, it's absolutely Hornblower's story - something evinced by the relatively small amount of dialogue.
It might have helped if Hornblower had a sense of humour, but he's as devoid of that as he is of musicality.
Music is a bit hard to do in a book; humour is almost as hard.
You see, reading this cycle is something of a throwback to my teenage years, when I devoured every Hornblower book I could find at my local library.
Forester's creation was a hero grander than life for me at that time.Fast-forward to 2012 and I am astonished by how my view of Horatio Hornblower has changed.
Due to almost thirty years life experience and vastly increased knowledge of history, I see a young man, who's undeniably competent, but also rather unsure of himself, unatractively manipulative and to be frank, rather unsymphatetic.How does this change of view reflect on the Hornblower opus and this book in particular?
This is the 5th in the Hornblower saga.
This book begins with Horatio Hornblower taking command of a 22 gun sloop called Atropos - the smallest ship in the British Navy to require a Captain.
The 3rd was to scour the Mediterranean coast of southern Spain, disorganise the Spanish coasting trade, gather information of the harbours, and then look in at Corsica before rejoining the fleet off the Italian coast.
He boldly challenges a Spanish frigate several times the Atropos' size.
It's another tale of history and adventure and continues to flesh out the character of Horatio Hornblower.
I really enjoyed this Hornblower! Actually, the more of them I read, the more I enjoy them, and that includes the unfinished HORNBLOWER DURING THE CRISIS. In this one, Hornblower gets his first official command and organizes Nelson's funeral procession, raises sunken treasure, and plays cat-and-mouse with a Spanish ship many times his size. Delightful. Forester is endlessly inventive and knowledgeable without being heavy-handed, and he can evoke alternately smiles, dread, excitement, and pathos. Highly recommend the series.
This should be called Hornblower Rolls With The Punches. This book shows the varied responsibilities of a captain in the Royal Service. the task thrust upon him, he does his duty, by damn! He helps run a canal boat, he takes on the training of a prince, he searches for sunken treasure, saves a fellow captain and diplomatically serves the King of Sicily. At the last, he is a comfort to his wife. A good read.
As with his previous novels in the series, Forester displays an incredible level of detail and ability to convey a sense of place and time that is very impressive. Despite having no background in sailing or navigation, I never feel lost or left behind in the nautical-heavy narration of these stories. Top notch storytelling.
Series gets better and better...I really enjoy C. S. Forester's writing style. His stories are full of feeling and imagery. As you read through the series you continue to become more involved in the trials and tribulations of the main character.
Forester continues to entertain with these novels!
It takes some good writing to make a nautical chase scene riveting.
But Forester does an excellent job of keeping the reader enthralled.Hornblower continues to be a very human character; he even contemplates killing himself at one point.
And we once again end off very abruptly--Hornblower comes home and discovers his two children are sick.
And that's the end of the novel!
Hornblower has already written the novels that come immediately after this one chronologically, so a series reader will know what happens.
If we follow on the track laid by Hornblower and the Crisis, then Hornblower forged a deception that fooled the French into meeting Nelson at Trafalgar and then while that battle was raging he went to Gloucestershire with his family.
As the forward by Bernard Cornwell points out, the Atropos isn't so much a novel as a collection of related short stories.
While the strange interlude with Hornblower and the funeral barges, like Hornblower and the Crisis feels like Forester felt a need to borrow some of Nelson's luster for his own creation.
