https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3431.The_Five_People_You_Meet_in_Heaven
what providence: i just remembered this book after I read some holier-than-though pretentious bullshit Mitch Albom wrote about Harry Potter.
Mr. Albom-Winfrey seems to think the mass marketing of Harry Potter has ruined the theoretical lives of such figures as Winnie the Pooh, Clifford, Curious George, etc., despite that his own shitty books have been thrust upon the world under the same kind of marketing blitz.
I'm pretty sure if I wrote a book called "THE FIVE PEOPLE WHO WILL FELLATE YOU AND CHEW OFF YOUR FACE AFTER YOU DIE," people would be curious enough to read on.
Love doesn't." The book that taught me the idea of death, God and life's never ending unanswered questions.I vaguely remember when exactly I read this but I remember I read this couple of months before I broke up with my current-boyfriend and it was around the end of the year.
These five people were there to answer all of his unanswered questions about his life and why God had purposes with him in his life even when he thought that he had no value at all - This too amazes me still; have you EVER wondered why are you here on earth?
I don't understand the one star reviews for the book.
Are these directed to the author, Mitch Albom, because he openly dissed the Harry Potter phenomena via a 594-word short story?
I have equal love for the Harry Potter books and for The Five People You Meet in Heaven, and am proud to say neither HP's popularity nor Albom's notoriety had a say in how I felt for them.I highly recommend this book, particularly if you're one into bittersweet life lessons and notions of death.
Some have accused the book for being both preachy and boring, but I don't find that the case.
در لحظه های آخر، او دو دست کوچک دخترک را در دستانش احساس میکند، و بعد هیچ...؛ ادی در زندگی پس از مرگ چشم باز میکند و به دنبال پیدا کردن پاسخ این پرسش است که آیا توانسته جان دخترک را در لحظه ی آخر نجات دهد؟، او در آنجا با پنج نفر دیدار میکند.
تالا به ادی میفهماند همه ی زندگی و عمرش، با کار و وظیفه ای که در روبی پیر به عنوان تعمیرکار وسایل بازی برای نجات جان بچه ها انجام داده؛ در واقع جبران مرگ او را کرده است.
One of the great things about checking out audiobooks from the public library is that I can take a chance on something I normally wouldn't buy, and I end up loving it.
And then, of course, there are the times I take a chance on something I wouldn't normally like and end up really hating it as predicted.
See if you can guess which is the case here by the end of this post.The Five People You Meet in Heaven is about Eddie, an amusement park maintenance guy who dies and goes to heaven.
I rip the telephone off the wall and throw it out my nine-story window onto the street; I let out a barbaric, guttural, king-of-the-jungle, ape-like scream.
I kick a hole in the middle of my T.V. I like that my shin is cut, bleeding, and burning.
Out of hate for such a thought I bite my tongue, making it bleed.
It doesn’t bleed enough.
I begin to run down the street as fast as I can, screaming at the top of my lungs for the homeless man to stab me.
I run to the lake and dive in, scraping my head and arms.

I enjoyed this book. It had a great voice, interesting characters and good messages. I liked how each of the 5 people were connected in different ways, some surprise. The style grabs you. I thought it was a good intro to learn more about how this author writes. Spiritual without getting too religious. Witty and charismatic on some levels. Endearing to see how you watch other people live, as well as guess what happens when you die. I will definitely read more from the author.
While the book was mildly entertaining and held my interest (I kept wanting to know who Eddie would meet next), I found it to be incredibly preachy and corny.
Furthermore, the moral at the end was not all that creative or enlightening (we are all connected...big woop!).So to the man on the subway who interrupted my reading to tell me that this was an amazing book and I would think of it for years to come all I can say is: sorry buddy, but this review is that last time I will think about The Five People You Meet in Heaven, unless it is to tell people that it is overrated.
Joelle Huertas 904 W.A.  Book Review On The Five People You Meet In HeavenThe Five People You Meet In HeavenBy Mitch Albom208pp Passaic, New JerseyISBN-13: 9781401308582Hyperion $10.80 This book was so amazing that it remained on the New York Best Seller List for 95 weeks. If the book wasn’t that marvelous why would it have remained there? Mitch Albom’s book The Five People You Meet In Heaven is an extraordinary book. You might think it’s a religious book because the title itself, but it isn’t.
I found myself gasping, crying, and laughing with the characters because of the way Mitch Albom portrays Eddie is so moving.
For example Ruby, one of the five people Eddie meets in heaven, says to Eddie “Holding anger is a poison...It eats you from inside...We think that by hating someone we hurt them...But hatred is a curved blade...and the harm we do to others...we also do to ourselves...” I personally love that quote because it help me let go of things because I was filled with anger.
One thing you will wonder after you finish reading this book is who will be your five people you meet in heaven?
What an incredible book this was.
He dies trying to save a little girl at the amusement park he worked as a maintenance man.
After he dies, he meets 5 people who actually show him his life had meaning.
He thought his life meant nothing.
Eddie entered the burning building because he thought he saw a little kid in there.
After she died of cancer, he never loved again.
The fifth person was the little girl who actually was in the burning building during the war.
And you also found out he saved the little girl at the amusement park.
منذ مدة طويييلة لم أقرأ شيئا لامس أعماقي كهذا الكتاب، يجعلني أطرق وأفكر ، أنظر للبعيد الماضي وأتسائل
Y'er darned tootin', kids!The younger generation only knows poor, dear Mitch Albom as the guy who's always hogging the spotlight on Super Soul Sundays - as the guy whom their parents would stop sleeping in on Sunday mornings to hear, if only he were to preach in their neighborhood church - and (horrors!) as the guy WHO DISSED HARRY POTTER!But so what?
Take away the fancy Amazon gift wrap with its shiny veneer and the Good Housekeeping seal of approval (from the folks in the seniors' homes of course), and you have… WHAT?A story of a broken old man who's had an excruciatingly hard life.
It was a pleasant enough story but it failed to really engross me in the various happenings.Partly I think I found it an extremely weird idea of what Heaven might be like.
The five people seemed a strange collection to me and I could understand if Eddie felt a bit miffed by who he got!
I must admit I started thinking who I might want for my five people .........Putting any criticism aside I read the book straight through and enjoyed it enough not to put it down for other activities!
I get why old religious women might like this book, but it wasn't for me.
حالا دیگه میچ آلبوم شده یکی از نویسنده های محبوبم :)داستان های میچ آلبوم همیشه تقریبا یه موضوع جدید و نویی دارن، و همیشه کتاب هاش پر از جمله های به یاد ماندنی و تاثیرگذاره. کتاب پنج نفر هم از این قضیه مستثنا نیست، اما به نظرم به خوبی کتاب های چاپ جدیدتر میچ نبود. از وقتی کتاب رو تموم کردم دارم پیش خودم فکر میکنم ۵نفری که قراره من توی بهشت ملاقات کنم چه کسانی میتونن باشن؟ :دی
Buku yang bagus terutama bagi yang suka memaknai dan menghargai Hidup, membuat kita untuk selalu bersyukur kepada Sang Pencipta.
Satu-satunya waktu yang kita sia-siakan adalah waktu yang kita habiskan dengan mengira kita hanya sendirian.Pelajaran 2:Pengorbanan bagian dari kehidupan, bukan untuk disesali jika mengorbankan sesuatu yang berharga, karena kita tidak sungguh-sungguh kehilangan itu, Kita hanya meneruskannya pada orang lain.Pelajaran 3:MAAF.
Tapi kebencian adalah pedang bermata dua, luka yang kita buat dengan pedang bermata dua, luka yang kita buat dengan pedang itu, kita lakukan juga pada diri kita sendiri.
Tapi kadang-kadang dalam panasnya kehidupan, cinta seolah kering dipermukaan dan harus tergantung pada akarnya yang tertanam dalam untuk membuatnya tetap hidup.
This is just the most awful book I have ever read. I hate this book!
I just loved the fact that the fifth and last person here in this book is a Filipino. :DI learned that we affect other people's lives however small we do to others. :D
You dance with it"THE FIVE PEOPLE YOU MEET IN HEAVEN tells the story of Eddie, the head of maintenance department at a well-known amusement park.
Along with Eddie, the reader gets to know what he discovered in his afterlife.
Every now and then, there are flashback scenes to some of Eddie's previous birthdays.Albom thinks in his novel that our lives don't end by our death but it begin.
Each soul that reaches to heaven has to meet five persons in it's afterlife from which it gets to know five lessons and secrets.A unique, interesting, well-written and very creative story.
This book led Mitch Albom to become one of my favourite authors.It's such a wonderful idea, that whe
Extreme simplification, ridiculous writing style, nonsense. Honestly, whatever this author was trying to do, whether making me cry tears of blood, philosophy over the meaning of life, or discover my connection with those around me, but he failed miserably at all of them.How on the history of time was this book on the Bestseller list for over ninety weeks? I weep for humanity.
Review to follow..
It's now six months later and I think I've finally worked off the last roasted potato so this seems like a timely juncture to write a review of The Five People You Meet in Heaven.
Perhaps the sixth person that Eddie was fated to meet was Kevin Bacon...
All five people have come into and out of Eddie's life during formative moments and have been affected by the very act of their meeting.
If I were a deeper thinking mammal I make take the opportunity to consider who the five people I might meet in heaven would be.
The title alone got me reading this book and more when I found out the Mitch Albom wrote it since I am a big fan of his Tuesday's with Morrie. Though I did not like this book as much as I did Tuesday's, Mitch Albom again succeeded in inspiring his readers and moving them to have uniquely fresh view of death just like what he did in Tuesday's.
It’s interesting seeing how heaven is perceived in someone else’s eyes. I do believe there is an afterlife of some sort, but I don’t know what exactly lies there. I think the concept presented in this book in which you meet five people that in one way or another shaped your life or are interconnected to you is clever. Furthermore, they explain to you about your purpose, destiny, and their involvement in you. This made me think about how it is true, there are many circumstances which affect your
I think the concept presented in this book in which you meet five people that in one way or another shaped your life or are interconnected to you is clever.
This would be an ideal “end” (or a new beginning) to someone’s life, especially if the person feels useless or felt as if they lived without a purpose.
The life events of everyone may not be as extreme as his (or may be worse), but I think they're just as significant.
This is also a short book which can be read in a small amount of time (depending on the person), so this can easily be one of those “read again” novels.
I appreciate the sentiments of this book, the messages although a little schmaltzy made you stop and think about your own reflections on life, the little differences and the impact you can make that can leave impressions on other people whether your aware of it or not. I wasn’t completely sold on the style of the writing or the overall message, as an agnostic I feel somewhat conflicted about the whole heaven thing so I feel 3 stars is being generous.
So anyway, as Eddie is doing his rounds Freddy's Free Fall breaks and the cable is starting to snap (but nobody knows this yet) and there are people at the top and Eddie goes and tells his co-worker to get the people out of the cart and then to let the cart drop.
So as his coworker lets the cart down Eddie runs to save her but as soon as the cart falls on him, he feels two little hands in his.
For years, his life was a routine and it's almost boring.
On his 83rd birthday, an accident happened as he attempts to save girl falling from the roller coaster which took his life.
He meets five people that became part of his life.
Five People You Meet in Heaven was an easy yet slightly emotional read.
My tears welled up when Eddie met the last three persons in this book where he learned about forgiveness, long lasting love and peace.
Overall, I really enjoyed this one but it's not my favorite (I still love his other book: For One More Day)
Occasionally I buy books at auction because they can be very cheap; this came with assorted others, so ended up on the shelves.It’s very brief and could easily be read in one sitting and is about a fairground worker called Eddie.
Albom is an interesting character; I knew little about him prior to this, apart from the fact he has spent years grumbling about the Harry Potter books and films because he felt they made children stop reading other children’s classics.
