https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64854.M_is_for_Malice
Book Review  4 out of 5 stars to M is for Malice, the 13th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series, written in 1996 by Sue Grafton. When I first picked up this book, as I was far behind in the series and not able to read them as they were published, I got very excited. My favorite type of books to read are about family dramas and whodunits. Well this book combined those two themes and sub-genres together when something was amiss with Malek Construction. Four (4) Malek brothers. And what a
4 out of 5 stars to M is for Malice, the 13th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series, written in 1996 by Sue Grafton.
When I first picked up this book, as I was far behind in the series and not able to read them as they were published, I got very excited.
My favorite type of books to read are about family dramas and whodunits.
Overall, this book has some good suspense and thrills, probably in the mid to high end of the whole series, and worth a read.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
The. Best.
This latest in Grafton's alphabet series is one of the best.
This series itself gets better and better.
When I am a gazillion years old and in the nursing home with nothing to do, I intend to start again with A and go to Z and I know I will delighted all over again.
Kinsey, this time, is called on to find a brother who was banished from the family 18 years ago.
It's a murder mystery, so people get killed...
there's a will, so people kill for money...
Grafton makes it special.
Kinsey is asked by her cousin Tasha to find a missing heir for a family that really doesn’t want him back.
Of course, she finds him and seeing how his life has changed, she advises him that going back would probably only cause bad things to happen.
Sure enough, he goes back and sure enough, bad things happen.
Sue Grafton is excellent at drawing characters that we really don’t like and she definitely has those in this book.
What makes this book different is the emotional depth that Kinsey feels for the missing heir.
Great one! One of my favorites so far.
Oh, I remember this one. It broke my heart...Grafton created a twisted family with an unlikely angel. And Deitz came back. From here on, I am reading for the first time.
I was able to put this book down for a week at a time, pick it up and be right back where I was without having to scan the last few pages.
The story itself was a little frivolous to me as a private investigator novel but that does not mean that I didn't have fun reading it.
I really appreciated some of the human aspecst of the novel that I don't usual find in the "private eye genre" that was more believeable then the story line itself.
In this installment, Kinsey is hired to find a missing man who was named equally in his fathers will along with his three brothers.
Sadly he has been missing nearly 20 years and the other brothers are not real keen on her finding him.
I feel like as the series progresses Sue Grafton is allowing Kinsey to become more and more real in the sense that she is allowing her to develope friendships and family ties.
I feel like she is more intraspective on her developing relationship with her new found family than she is on the only real love interest she has had.
I don’t know how Kinsey survived this book emotionally because it was a rough ride.As I listened to this book, all I could think was it should have been the “G” book for Greed because the Malik family was a whole bunch of greedy bast****.
Kinsey gets rolled into this family drama through a lost heir search and results in her solving a cold case and a murder.
Since she is hired by her family, there is that additional drama added to the situation plus the victims in both cases may have been adults but there was a level childhood innocence that truly makes the bad guys seem even more disgusting in my opinion.
Kinsey works a case to locate a man who is set to inherit a large sum of money. He is estranged from his family, due to his being black sheep of the family. His life has improved, and Kinsey believes only trouble can arise if he returns home to his family. She's right. Also, Robert Dietz is back. The 13th book in the Kinsey Millhone series. A solid mystery. What starts as a simple case of finding someone, ends with murder, and Kinsey works to figure out who the killer was.I listened to an audio version of this book.
After reading the disappointing "L" book, I took a short break.
I'm so glad this one didn't disappoint me, otherwise I would have found it even more difficult to continue on with the series.I was glad that Dietz returned, even if he wasn't as saucy as last time.
I understand this is probably meant for those that don't read the series in order, but instead just pick up a book.
I'll stretch them out so that these annoyances don't build up and threaten to explode like last time.I was glad that this one wasn't as "dangerous" as some of the others.
Dietz! But Dietz... this book was very personal for Kinsey, between Dietz and Tasha and her instant friendship with Guy. This was a good book. I had no idea who did the killing or why. I didn't like the Malecs and suspected all of them, including Christy. But the ending left a little be desired. Still a good book though! Everytime my husband heard 'Bader' he thought she was saying 'Vader.' lol
Picked up this copy while on vacation. It was a perfect beach read but it doesn't make me want to consume the series.
I much preferred this book to the previous book in the series, a complex mystery of a complex family spread over two different time periods, with Kinsey gradually untangling the web.
Maybe I should try some ginkgo whatsit.-- Blew through this -- not great, but a pretty good comfort read while lying in bed sick.
Definitely better than N or P, not as good as O (last one I reread before this), nowhere near my earlier favourites K, G, F, E, &c &c (I should go through and at least rank all of them, if not write mini-reviews, but am just not up to that right now).
Happily, it seems to be getting better and better.This time, Kinsey Millhone, private investigator in Santa Teresa, California in the 1980’s, is hired by her new-found cousin for a missing persons case.
Unfortunately, as the black sheep of the family, Guy disappeared nearly 20 years ago and his brothers aren’t all that keen to find him and have to split the inheritance.It’s a pure plot and credible in many ways.
Well, maybe she was one step ahead of me right near the end, but after all, I’m not a PI with 10 years of experience like she is.A nice addition to the series.
When he shows up on her doorstep after "two years, four months, and ten days," Kinsey says, "I'm not mad because you left.
I'm mad because you came back.
"M" takes place early in the year following "L" and Kinsey is still 35.
Cousin Tasha Howard, an estate attorney, hires her to help with a case in Santa Theresa -- population 85,000 -- where sibling relationships play a key role.
Kinsey's efficiency may be detrimental in this case.
One piece of valuable advice from Kinsey's landlord Henry: "Take my word for it.
I'm struck by how much Kinsey will benefit when computers and cell phones enter her life.
I found this book surprising good after the less than stellar L is for Lawless.Kinsey is beginning to reluctantly open up emotionally with her cousin Tasha, ex-lover Dietz and especially with the victim (before he is murdered, of course.) I love seeing personal character growth in long running series and I'm glad that Kinsey is beginning to progress as a character.M is for Malice has a great mystery with twists and red herrings galore.
Kinsey's touch exterior may be beginning to soften, which could be considered good or bad, but at least she's detecting again instead of just letting things happen as they may.
This book has injected some much needed energy into the series.
So I've been reading these books in order & I'm not really sure if this book fits. It was only a mystery for about 50% of the book which can be okay, but I picked it up because I wanted a mystery. I wasn't able to figure out the 'who-done-it' until she did so I was satisfied with that and as always the lady who reads this (audio) book was amazing. I will continue on with the series but this was not one of my favorites.
Kinsey is like a comfy old pair of slippers.
The absolute best in the series. A superb mystery and a great cast of characters surrounds PI Kinsey Millhone. This is also the most emotional for Kinsey as her heart gets deeply involved. Loved it.
Σταθερή αξία.
Someday, some how, I will finally get to book Y, since the author died before completing the series.
I have them sitting on my shelf, but honestly only read maybe 3 0r 4 a year.
I had the feeling that once upon a time I read this book, probably out of order.
Oh well.In this book Kinsey is hired to find a missing relative.
Kinsey of course, feels guilty and vows to discover what happened to him.
The mystery was solved, but the relationship between Kinsey and Robert was left in the air.
Guess I need to read N is for Noose sometime soon.
I admit that I started reading these books after the passing of Sue Grafton.
How did one publish 25 books?
I have read them in no particular order,but I see that the writing got better as she matured.
I found the early ones to have glimpses, perhaps common to a young writer, of ageism and judgement - unwarranted and undeserved, in my opinion.Having said that, I continue to pick up these books when i find them - is it curiosity?
Concurrently, reading each one is like tuning in your favorite Netflix series - familiarity.
Maybe I'll get to like them better.
I gave this book two stars, rather than one, only because (a) I'm not very familiar with the genre, and so might be judging it by somewhat inappropriate standards and (b) the plot twist towards the end and the end itself were surprising. Otherwise, the writing is bland, the characters are hackneyed and flat, the dialogue is often not believable.
I'm a probate paralegal, so this one was right up my alley. Wasn't expecting a murder 1/2 way through the story, but I knew it wasn't going to be wrapped up neatly in the first few chapters. Certainly didn't see the ending coming. Great twist!
A touching and emotional mystery that keeps you guessing right up until the end.
✭✭✭✭
This doesn't seem like it was a good place to try this series. The mystery didn't start until over halfway into the book. I feel I may have enjoyed it more had I read the first 12 books prior.
3.5 - a good one. On to "N"...
