https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152695.The_Blue_Bistro
A twenty-something prone to flitting from one resort town to the next, usually when her most recent relationship goes south, Adrienne is determined to leave the hotel scene behind and make some real money working in a restaurant.
Fiona and Thatcher, her best friend and business partner, have created a familial feeling amongst the staff, which makes the inner working of the restaurant incredibly fun to watch.
There’s an instant connection between Thatcher and Adrienne, but things are complicated by his lifelong friendship with Fiona.
Hilderbrand's description of the island eatery, the camaraderie of the staff, the food, the wealthy, famous customers, were richly detailed and drew me into a world that I could see, hear, smell, touch, and taste.Adrienne is attracted to her boss, Blue Bistro co-owner Thatcher.
It is another manifestation of her selfishness.Thatcher falls in love with Adrienne, but Fee's medical and emotional needs trump Adrienne's every time.
It could easily have been a 5 if Hilderbrand had put as much rich detail and development into the relationship between Thatcher and Adrienne as she did into describing the inner workings of The Blue Bistro.
So, one day, when I am innocently shelving this book in the course of my library duties, and for some reason it catches my eye, I check it out and think to myself, why not?
After all, I reason, as a writer, shouldn't I read as widely and voraciously as possible, including stuff I wouldn't normally?
And hey, I like mental mashed potatoes, fluffy and overladen with butter, as much as the next guy.
Maybe it's because instant mashed potatoes don't come close to homemade (represented in this genre, I guess, by Maeve Binchy), but they're still mashed potatoes, so suck it up, pile on the butter, and clean your plate.
I have mixed feelings about this. 1. Thatcher was so selfish it drove me nuts. 2. The ending. I want to know what's next for Thatcher and Adrienne. 3. What about Dr. Don's wedding?? A good portion was spent on the wedding and Adrienne's acceptance of Mavis. How does Dr. Don feel about Thatcher now? As long as it took me to finish this book, I feel a little let down.
Another great beach read by this author. The Nantucket setting, a little romance and a slight mystery makes this a charming chick-lit book. I was not expecting to read the ins and outs of the restaurant business but I enjoyed it nonetheless. 3+ stars but not quite 4.
I really liked this book...until I got to the last few pages.
It ended so abruptly and not in keeping with the rest of the book...it was like the author got sick of writing it and just wanted to end it as quickly as possible.
With Elin Hilderbrand books, you always pretty much know what you're going to get but, since this one was set in a restaurant, it was a little different and I liked that.
I had a picture in my mind of what The Blue Bistro looked like, from the author's description.
Quick Summary - The Blue Bistro follows a woman with a transient lifestyle as a hotel concierge who starts a job as a Nantucket restaurant assistant manager after being left penniless by her scumbag boyfriend.
The Blue Bistro is an okay beach read - I went in with exactly those expectations and, after the slow-ish start up, was fairly entertained for the majority of the book.
Within the first couple chapters readers have solved this "mystery" and it's really not that earth-shattering.
The love story is expected, predictable, and (while fun to read) slightly boring.
I have read quite a few books by this author and normally really love reading them.
This book was quite different for me.
The plot being focused on the restaurant and food became tiresome as the book progressed.
Also, I did not find myself rooting for the main characters to be together.
A guy who is controlling, deceiptful, and doesn't drink but requires you to get drunk is not a good person for you to be around.
At the end of the book I found myself rooting for her to have the courage to stay away from him!
Definitly a fluffy beach read (unrealistic in many ways). Has anyone been to a restaurant where employees are told to drink during the job? Some more restaurant research might have been helpful (having worked in restaurants this really irked me). Some of the writing got a little annoying after a while (phrases like "love. love. love." And last but not least it seems the author spent too much time describing food that she plum forgot to give the book an ending. Oops!
Title: "Blue Bistro" (a Nantucket Novel - stand alone)Author: Elin HilderbrandPublished: GoodReads shows dates in both 2005 & 2006; I need to follow up on the actual US date.Genre: fiction, adult fiction, drama, romance, ?
Although I typically prefer an intense murder/thriller/mystery or a soft, quick-to-read and always happily ending romance, I find myself drawn to her books.I am not sure how the booksellers (or the author herself), classify this book; I think I am dubbing it as a "drama".
I guess that is likely my own fictional category, but I really feel it is a good way to describe it."The Blue Bistro" is a story that covers family dynamics, island living, chronic illness, happiness and heartbreak.
Okay, I just didn't get the obsessive friendship between Fiona and Thatcher.
It sure seemed one-sided--all on Thatcher's side.
I felt for Fiona, who wouldn't but show a little something--ANYTHING that resembles warmth or friendship.
Sure I get really strong, solid friendship--but why did this friendship have to be sooo dramatic to the exclusion of all else for Thatcher?
I was totally not getting the whole priest/AA bit--falling off the wagon was pretty cliche and getting married at the end was just not necessary.
Didn't like the ending it was missing something for me--more detail or something--kind of blah.
Took this on a flight recently - perfectly light and digestible - just what I needed to while away 17 hours in the air. Set in Nantucket, story centers around the Blue Bistro, her staff and her patrons. Just enough romance without being too gushy. I will look for more Elin Hilderbrand to read during the summer (as I think she is the perfect author to read while you are laying in the sun).
Elin Hilderbrand is such a wonderful writer. I seriously could not put this book down and read it in a day. I loved reading about Nantucket and the high-end restaurant business--the employees were like a real family. Adrienne, Thatcher and Finoa were great characters--I want to know more! This is recommended!
Loved it!! I still think about those crackers they ate at night!
When I first started reading this book, I didn't love it.
I kept wondering, "Where is this GOING?" Also, the boss in the story irritated me by not only encouraging his assistant manager to drink, but practically forcing her to drink while she worked.
Why would a recovering alcoholic who has to attend AA meetings push alcohol onto someone he cares about?But I kept reading.
Eventually, the boss grew on me by his undying and completely loving friendship with his sick friend, also the head chef.
I grew to appreciate all the details about the restaurant because it made the book feel valid, credible, and sensory.
I actually LOVED the restaurant aspect of this book.
The author did an amazing job of describing the ambiance, the food, the patrons and the staff.
It made me want to cook gourmet food and eat at gourmet restaurants.
The "love" story on the other hand was forced, under-developed, annoying and unbelievable.
I didn't like the male lead character at all--ever.
This would have been an excellent book if the author stuck to the restaurant drama alone and steered clear of the love story.
This was a romance novel ruined by the romance.
For once I was cheering for them to NOT end up together.
What I really love about this book is Hilderbrand’s ability to write about a physical location in such a way that the location itself becomes a main character…as I made my way through the chapters, I became so invested in the restaurant—I swear, I could reach out and touch the ambiance—that I found myself, in-between bouts of reading, wondering about the fate of the bistro in the same way I usually wonder about characters I become invested in.
Hildebrand reminds us that location is more than just a two-dimensional backdrop for our characters.
It's really a 2.5 for me. I found the story predictable. I did get a kick out of the kitchen and bar staff, except for Fiona. To me the minor characters were almost more fleshed out than the majors. Overall-eh.
I enjoyed the story very much! This is the 7th book I’ve read by Elin Hildebrand and I always enjoy her stories. Looking forward to many more from her!!
The two main characters Adrienne and Thatcher are both flawed.
I see a bit of a similarity between Mavis's feelings for Dr. Don and Thatcher's for Fiona.
Then we have the love interest between Thatcher and Adrienne.
And when he seems to be in a relationship wit h Adriennen he runs off and marries Fiona without a phone call warning Adrienne before or after.
So, I found it difficult to like Thatcher.
Towards the end of the book the passages describing the friendship between him and Fiona were the most touching.
Adrienne I think he truly loved Fiona.
While fielding questions, the revealed that The Blue Bistro was her favorite book out of all her works (something that I already knew and why it has been on my summertime reading list) and I can easily tell why.
The Blue Bistro as well as Adrienne, Thatcher, Fiona and the rest of the staff and guests drew me in and made we want to visit Nantucket even more than I already do.
Alas, there is no actual Blue Bistro but at least there are more Elin Hilderbrand novels!
This book made me hungry. For food, yes. But also for a desire to spend a summer on Nantucket to explore the beaches and restaurants. I was enthralled in this love story and how they kept this busy restaurant running. Good and light start to the new year.
I really enjoyed this one from already one of my favorite authors! The kind of book where the setting is so vivid and the characters so lovable that I wanted to google them or find them on Facebook, and make reservations at The Blue Bistro. Fiction at it's best! Love a great, light summer beach read.
I really really wish that goodreads would implement half stars - I truly enjoyed this book - I'd probably give it a 3.5 stars - but I didn't want to mark it down to three.at 28, Adrienne Dealey has had pretty bad luck when it comes to relationships in her life.
I like some action in my books LOL, but also the side stories of Duncan and Caren, some of the customers and her family sort of bogged it down for me ...
I wanted a little bit more to their story and I kind of feel like I got cut short on that end.
One particular thing that stood out in The Blue Bistro is the restaurant setting.
Something that surprised me while reading - given the fact that this is often categorized as a chick-lit - was the fact that Adrienne's character was actually really well developed.
All the while, I as a reader got a sense of Thatcher's dynamic with his best friend Fiona because it was constantly emphasized, but could gather very little details about his romantic relationship with Adrienne.
Given the fact that the author did put a lot of effort in the setting, but could not give additional details about their relationship dissapointed me a bit.
Which led me to The Blue Bistro and just like her others this book did not disappoint!
The Blue Bistro is owned by longtime friends Thatcher Smith and Fiona Kemp.
Thatcher loves Fiona but only as a childhood friend could.
The Blue Bistro is truly Adrienne's story, even though there are many side stories taking place at the same time.
Upon Adrienne’s arrival to Nantucket she is told by a man on the ferry to check out The Blue Bistro restaurant for employment.
Adrienne is hired by Thatcher as an assistant manager to run the front of the restaurant.
I looked forward to picking it up at the end of the day, the only time I usually read.
This is not a spoiler as it is disclosed early on, when Adrienne, the main character in this novel is hired to work there.
This seemed realistic and I liked very much her relationship with her Dad. Adrienne has roamed continents working at hotel chains, but settles down one summer in Nantucket when an opportunity arises that she can't turn down, learning the high-end restaurant business.
She finds a home with all the characters here that are involved in running the Blue Bistro.Personally, I loved learning about the high-end restaurant business myself.
The owner of the posh, popular restaurant The Blue Bistro, Thatcher Smith, is willing to give Adrienne the chance to be his assistant manager.
Thatcher’s not giving away any secrets but Adrienne can’t figure out why he’s so devoted to Fiona and why they’ve decided that this will be the last summer of The Blue Bistro before the doors close for the last time.
In the mean time, she can’t help but feel drawn to Thatcher and perhaps even fall in love.Although I listened to this one in the car, it’s a great beach read as well.
Eh, had I read this in a day, fine.
I read it over several, because I don't have the time to finish a book in a day in winter.
Or ever, but let's pretend it's a winter thing.For a beach read, this would have been fine.
His relationship with Fiona was just flat-out weird.
Fine.
But the devotion took a weird turn and never really rallied to normal levels after that.
"I love you, Adrienne." Great.
"But I love Fiona, too." What?
No, that's weird.
The actual plot was not.This month, I have made a promise to myself to only read books that I already own or have been lent in hard copy.
My coworker recommended that I read this because it was her favorite book (...) and I would like to say that I was relieved that it wasn't the typical beach, romance novel I was expecting from Hilderbrand (and the cover art.
This novel was truly focused on the restaurant industry, with a very subtle and non-obtrusive romance going on in the background.
