https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/964640.Rufus_M_
I really loved reading about the antics and adventures of the youngest Moffat. The perspective of a child this age seemed right on target to me. A truly fun classic for young readers.
This book was another great classic which has held up well. Rufus is such a likeable character and the episodic adventures were extremely fun & charming!
I really enjoyed reading this classic.
It’s strange to categorize this book as such since it was first written in 1943.
Rufus’ various escapades always managed to bring a smile to my face!
I learned quite a bit about life during the early 1900s during WW1 as well.
I enjoyed this book in little bursts rather than trying to read it all in one sitting.
Some books are meant to be savored and this is definitely one of them.
I fully intend on reading it aloud to my son when he is a little older.
Although in general I am a great fan of classic children's books, I found this one to be difficult to follow and impossible to engage a similarly aged child with.
And to our great good fortune, there are now so many excellent books for any age and taste, we have the luxury of moving on rather than focusing on past eras of children's literature.
I would have loved to introduce my son to Rufus, and bought the book with this intent, but from having to explain the role of coal, the freedom to walk the town alone, the clothes sewn by hand, we just could not gain headway.
One of my happiest academic moments was when I persuaded a professor of economics to let me write a paper in which I combined economic theory (of which I knew nothing), several old books by Horatio Alger that must have belonged to my great-grandfather, and the first chapter of Rufus M where he gets his library card (it is the best chapter of the book).
Dear sweet Rufus. He is a character. I love his determination (think library card adventures and practicing ventriloquism), his naïveté (think the invisible piano player), and his optimism. He has a series of gentle adventures and you can hardly help but love him.
Cute little story of Rufus M, the clever/naughty little boy who lived with his family in Connecticut during the war time. The stories are simple yet engaging, a kind of story I would be happy to read to my boy =)
TITLE: Rufus M.WHY I CHOSE THIS BOOK: It is a Newbery Honor book; and it fit my reading challenge criteria being connected to the book before it, Daddy-Long-Legs, being the same genre juvenile fiction.REVIEW: I just love Rufus.
He reminded me of Anne of Green Gables in that he gets in to mischief unwittingly, has a big heart, and is too bright and inquisitive for his own good.
My favorite story was the one where he tries to get a library card.
I consider the librarian who tries to help him is both infinitely patient and somewhat sadistic.
I want to read more about Rufus and his family.
Rufus M continues the stories of the Moffats as they continue to grow and live through the war. There are some real cultural references that kids will need explained to them, and at this point probably some adults. While well written and involving real history, this is still a children's book and isn't so brilliant to thoroughly entice adults. The last chapter though, that last little vignette, carries a lot of power and symbol with it.
Not much happens in Eleanor Estes books, but I love them anyway.Who doesn't love a kid who spends the whole day trying to write his nameon a library card so he can check out books? The Fatal Four baseballteam made me laugh out loud. What a sweet book.
More fun Moffat stories--where the ordinary curiosity and adventures of kids makes for great entertainment. Estes captures the wonder of childhood and the lessons kids learn without being preachy. My five year old enjoys these books.
I had read this one more recently so was less struck by it than the first 2. But I loved the part where Rufus thinks the player piano is an invisible person. And the part where he gives the washcloth he knitted to the soldier. And of course, the part where he gets his library card is priceless.
Not as good as The Middle Moffat, but still lovable.
It was an amazing, funny, interesting book.
Read this with my 9 year old daughter. She loved it.
This may have been our favorite of the Moffat books. So many funny stories, but so much to discuss within the chapters. The Moffats are definitely growing up in this one.
Read the full review here: http://newberyandbeyond.com/newbery-r...
My 5-year-old gives it five stars--"I loved it." The last chapter, depicting a small domestic scene right at the close of WWII, was actually quite poignant.
Eleanor Estes certainly knows how to tell entertaining stories from children's viewpoints. This installation of the Moffats series well deserves its Newbery accolade. It's charming and perfect for reading a chapter aloud each night with a youngster, even though it was published in 1944. Cultural differences, such as a young child roving alone to his heart's content, and the absence of cell phones, do not take away from modern enjoyment of these classics.
When this Moffat family book opened with this dear little lad going through hell and back to get a library card so that he could join his siblings on the step with a book, I just fell in love with him. He did things his way and Ms. Estes captured well the way a child's mind works. I love the Moffats and I am glad for a happy ending for this portion of their lives.
Wonderful!
I admit it was interesting for me to read how people lived in those times, and in many ways how children of today, are much like children a hundred years ago.
But I kept thinking that a modern kid would have a hard time with this book.
There was no central plot.
There was no compelling central character.
The only way I could see an elementary kid reading this is if it was read aloud to them.
It could lead to some interesting conversations with grandparents about how times change, and reflections on what they did as kids.
What a cute little book!
He said that I might like it since I'm into the Little House on the Prairie series.
I thought it was very lovely and I liked how Rufus is so determined to get things done like check out his own library book or give his knitted washcloth to a soldier.
Some other parts were unbelievable like how he found fifty-five cents and managed to buy everything his family needed, all by himself.
How old is this kid anyway?
But who cares right, it's just a children's book meant to teach kids about morals and integrity.
But overall, I thought it was a nice read.
We read the first book, The Moffats, and enjoyed it. I love how Estes portrays this small-town, turn-of-the-century poor family in such a loving way. The mother is a widow trying to make ends meet as a dressmaker and the kids are just regular kids; curious, funny, daring, loyal to one another. The stories are slow-moving, but we enjoyed the first one because it was funny. Logan did not find this one so funny. We did get almost half-way through it, but L lost interest. We'll probably try it again later.
A library school professor read a chapter of this book to our class to explain how NOT to be a children's librarian, and I remembered how much I had enjoyed Eleanor Estes' "Ginger Pye" as a child. Picking up this charming little book, I found a number of short chapters describing the everyday life of a young boy growing up in New England. Estes' books are wonderful for reading aloud, and I wish more libraries kept them around.
I don't know why I adore these Moffat books. Seeing things from a child's point of view maybe -it just makes me laugh. I love the old time feel of days long ago and their family closeness. They work and play together in hard times. But the children hardly care or seem to notice the hard times as long as they have each other. And they certainly find their own unique adventures. I liked the first two books better though.
1944 Newbery Honor BookThis is the third in the Moffat series and focuses on the youngest Moffat, Rufus. Rufus has adventures knitting a washcloth, finding money in the ice and trying to learn ventriloquism.I think I enjoyed Janey's adventures better but it was still a good book. Like the other three books, each chapter is a seperate adventure so it would make a good read aloud. I think the Moffat books can also be understood independently of each other.
Painfully cute. Episodic and innocent in the same vain as the Nicholas books by Goscinny & Sempe, but without all the punching and crying. Plus these are distinctly American, and take place during WWII (Victory Gardens 'n all).This is the first Moffat book I've read. So fyi, I don't think it matters what order you read them in. Makes me want to go read the others now.
Our new book on tape for the car. We're so into it we sit in the car on the driveway when we get home to listen longer. It's hard to turn off. This one turned out fabulous. Clean wholesome, suspenseful, funny, great for kids, and an overall very fun story. Highly recommend it to anyone with boys.
Warm and sweet. This book is, in addition to being a story about Rufus Moffat and his siblings, a snapshot of America at the end of WWII. I enjoyed it. I do loathe Louis Slobodkin's illustrations, though. I had to not look at them as I read.
