https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67513.Touch_the_Dark
Yes!Then there is Cleopatra, Dracula’s brother, Eustache Dauger, Rasputin, The Oracle, Raphael (I’m pretty sure they’re referring to Raphael Sanzio da Urbino), Kit Marlowe, Jack the Ripper and whatever other historic celebrities that Chance can possibly dream up.It’s almost like she’s jumping up and down, waving her arms screaming, “I know history and stuff!” and I found it a tad overkill.Also, as I’m sure many have mentioned, there is a problem in this story with info dumps.
Obviously, because it’s me, you’re still riveted but you can’t help but wonder when I intend to start talking about shit that actually matters.Like that…Well, Chance does this all the time.
Raised with vampires, a clairvoyant, but "more", sees dead people, has a ghost side-kick, is running from a hit-man vampire, is a virgin, but has a magical vagina because all the vamps want a piece of that.Gangster Vampires - bad guys trying to kill Cassy because she ratted out their organization to the cops who don't believe in vampires, but they got them on tax evasion.Ruler Vampires - bad/good guys who are led by Cleopatra (yes, THE Cleopatra, not Cleopatra Smith) who want to protect Cassy as long as she is willing to have sex with one of them and be their tool forever.
My main problem is that I've already read the Anita Blake series, and Touch the Dark is so similar that you almost have to wonder why she wasn't called out on plagiarism.
I apologize if you're reading this and haven't read the Anita Blake series at all, and it's very possible you'll enjoy Touch the Dark more if you haven't, but I can't help but compare the two.When I first started, Cassie really felt like old-Anita to me.
It's very good, but at the same time, I had some serious issues reading it.
But I liked how Karen Chance textured this book so that the motivations were more rich, instead of it just being about sexual attraction or admiration.
I love good action, and Ms. Chance didn't pull her punches.
It fit very well with the storyline.3.I loved Ms. Chance's different use of magic in this story--it really caught my interest.
She's not a Mary Sue, but a character I want to follow to see how she evolves over time.Definitely, this book has some downpoints that made it hard to read.
The mafia locates Cassie at her job in a club (again, a virgin??) So she goes on the run.In terms of supernatural elements, it dabbles in everything.
We've got ghosts, vamps, shifters, fae, magic, dragons (!), psychics, even time travel!
Honestly, it was a bit overloaded with fantasy; I wish Karen Chance had left some things untouched, at least until the later books of the series.
I also wish the author was more careful when adding (view spoiler)[time travel to the plot...
The romance aspect was different than run-of-the-mill PNR because there wasn't a clear love interest for a while.
3.5 starsEntertaining.I read the 4 first books of the series in a row.
This is more a general opinion of the combination of the 5.This series have many elements that make it an entertaining and interesting read.
It has compelling plots, action, miseries to solve, enemies, romantic tension, magic, friendship, humor, a strong female lead, deaths, attractive men, fantastic creatures, time travel, vampires, and much much more.
But I can’t fault the writer much for this since it seems to work every time for most female readers.
And, if I recall correctly, I liked the third one a bit more than the others.I will continue reading this series.
Instead of making it a smooth transition, or just *gasp* leaving out things that will never matter ever again, she steps out of the story, takes two (or more!) full pages to explain it and then comes back to the scene.
The story clunks along, often making no sense, which is unfortunate.
I could handle a stump-brained lead character if the the story going on around her made any sense and/or was at all interesting.
This book did not engross me at all, past making me laugh at how inconsistant and bad it was.Overall I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone unless they were asking me for examples of unlikeable Mary-Sues surrounded by uninteresting hijinks caused by brainless vampires.
Pretty good. Unfortunately, Cassie is not a stone cold killer, she's actually a complete wimp in that area. I liked the book well enough, but I wish Cassie was a badass. She's more super magically talented and kindhearted than anything. I prefer black hearted heroines. MacHalo Read
“I knew I was in trouble as soon as I saw the obituary. The fact that it had my name on it was sort of a clue.”  In the beginning, you may find the writing style dry and dense, as it doesn’t abound in dialogues, and it seems just Cassie rambles on for endless pages. But don’t let it warn you off. Because what she rambles on about is very important, containing essential facts about that really complex and believable fantasy world Ms. Chance has created. Cassie’s narration is like she is telling
Because what she rambles on about is very important, containing essential facts about that really complex and believable fantasy world Ms. Chance has created.
You will love the many different paranormal creatures: vampires, mages, satyrs, were-beings, witches, ghosts, pixies, golems…And it is only the beginning!
:)In addition, in the second half of the book the nonstop action captivates your attention, meanwhile you also have to follow the complicated politics and conspiracy of this rich fantasy world.
By the end of the story, she is becoming the keeper of an unmatched power that is the very essence of her character.
This book is like that horror movie that has all the elements of a good, frightful time, but goes so over-the-top that it ruins the show.It started out auspiciously enough, with Cassandra Palmer in hiding from some sleazy vampires.
I can't tell you what happened because my brain was hazed over from the info-dump avalanches.It finally breaks through my brain haze that Cassie is about 17 years old.
All in all, this book started out okay, but didn't interest me the series or the character because, well, I have no idea what is happening.
The Cassandra Palmer Series is one you don't want to miss.I held off this book for so long because of all of the mixed reviews out there.
I loved all of the characters and it was just one of those great reads.I really felt bad for the main character Cassie, because she has this great power, and everyone wants to claim her for themselves and control her and because of this she has had the worse childhood ever.
I think you really need to read this book to find out just how hot these vamps are.
I'd rather not be told how to read a book -.-
Realmente me ha gustado, y quizás más de las tres estrellas que le pongo, pero también es cierto que ha habido momentos en los que me he cansado de las eternas preguntas de nuestra protagonista.
En serio, creo que podría dividir la novela en dos partes: 60% en la que Cassie habla en primera persona y lo analiza todo, y un 40 % de diálogos en los que no faltan las eternas preguntas de ella.
Pues la vida de nuestra protagonista es tan intensa, que nos relata todos los incidentes que tuvo desde niña hasta el momento de arrancar la novela.
The reviews for this book were all over the place, many people thought it had too much world building and info dumping in the beginning and others thought the beginning was choppy.
There is some info dumps and world building in the first 50 pages or so that is done outside of telling the story.
The vamps seem to be not all bad and on her side – it is the human mages Cassie needs to watch out for in this story.
Right now it is not in my top 7 favorite UF, but it is very enjoyable, I like the characters and the world, and I am definitely reading the next one … soon.
Check it out for more reviews!
Wow, finishing that book was a chore.
Time travel, a seer who possesses bodies in different times, vampires with dark curls, vamp politics, mages, ghosts, mafia - what just happened?!Most of the book is seriously just Cassandra surrounded by vamps in a room talking about politics and stuff.
I feel like I should get a medal for finishing this.
To summarise, if you love long scenes that never seem to go anywhere, terribly complex subplots layered upon subplots and a bunch of irrelevant information, you'll probably love Touch the Dark.
This book also gives you alot of information all at once and on top of everything else going on it can make it an intense read.The world the Karen Chance has created though is really interesting, full of vampires, weres and mages all kind of living in harmony.
Another great thing about this book is the characters.
Choices, choices!This is definately a series I would recommend to those who love Urban Fantasy, it was funny, interesting and action packed and I can't wait to get to the next one.
Our main titular character, Cassie is on the run from the vampire mobster Tony, who got to raise her by killing off her parents.
Then Cassie discovers she has powers for wich she is hunted not only by Tony, but also Silver and Black Circles of mage's government as well as a master vampire hungry for power and a Pythia's court of seers.
the fact that Cassie wasn't down with letting anyone be in charge of her fate, not even Mircea;6.
Overall I liked the story enough to read the next book and see if it gets better.Over and out
Cassie Palmer isn't your average kick-ass Urban Fantasy heroine.
But I think it's the fact that the series feels so unique that I enjoyed it so much.Cassie is a clairvoyant.
And they want to nurture her gifts in the hope that she will be loyal to them.Cassie's powers are growing, even in the short time she is with the senate.
She must deal with that, the growing threats to her life, and the distinct attentions of two vampires who want her for themselves.
The sexual tension is fantastic in the second half of the book and there are two really hot scenes that give us some payoff as well.There is a lot of world-building to be done.
I would actually give this one 2.5 or 2.75 stars if possible...it was generally good, but definitely gave the sense that you had inadvertently picked up a book in the middle of series, instead of at the beginning.
Which is good in many ways...you hit the ground running, and it's not immediately obvious what is going on and who is on who's side, which can be thought-provoking and interesting.
On the other hand, it left me with the feeling sometimes that I was missing something, and checking back to see if certain things had been explained and I had just missed it somehow or if they were still in the process of being explained somehow.
Periodically, throughout this book, she would stop all forward action to explain backstory for 30-40 more pages.This is telling not showing and it KILLS a story.
There were quite a few action scenes, but not much in the way of a good story to grab ahold of.What frustrates me so much is that I really feel that there is quite a bit of potential here, but it really was wasted on a book filled with info dump.Also, I have a beef with the vampires here.
(believe me, the way vampires derive nourishment was explained in a long drawn out tract of 30 pages)
Let's get straight to the core of this review: Touch The Dark= Pointless, dragged out and completely capable of sending someone to sleep every second paragraph.I think everybody who have read my reviews before know that I am not the sort of person to unleash flames on a book, both literally and metaphorically.
I generally like to think that I'm a nice person.
That's why I skimmed most of the sex scenes even though I hate missing parts of a book.
Not that I'd wanted to be some dippy heroine languishing in a tower, awaiting rescue.
Huh. She thought she was in Hell's waiting room.
If you've forgotten what the word 'torture' means please be my guest and start this book.So basically it's a urban fantasy novel with vampires, mages, shapeshifters, pixies and all the things that go bump in the night.
Obviously the book starts by the description of how they finally find her one night.
And stuff happens.
I would describe what stuff but my brain was hazed over from the info-dump avalanches.
I found myself getting ridiculously confused trying to figure what was going on and to whom.
So this is me after reading 50% of this book...
But even though this book fits that profile, I still enjoyed it - a lot!Basic plot: A clairvoyant young woman named Cassandra was raised in a powerful mafia-type vampire's household from the age of 4.
They escape, but Cassandra is quickly drug into vampire politics by the vampire senate (not friends of Tony).
Cassandra just wants out of that world and left alone.The part that I liked most about this book was the heroine's personality.
Another funny thing - even though this is a paranormal romance, Cassandra is still technically a virgin at the end of the book.
When her past finally catches up with her, Cassie realizes that not only is she the focus of several factions within the supernatural world including the vampire Senate, the Mage circles and the Fae, but that she cannot escape her ultimate destiny…An interesting story with an engaging heroine.
Nothings seems to phase her - not hairy satyrs, blood sucking vampires or aggressive war mages determined to end her at all costs.The basic story revolving around a conspiracy to undermine the vampire Senate is compelling although it is overshadowed by the above mentioned information dumping.
The time-travel element is unusual in urban fantasy and lends some freshness to what would otherwise be a pretty standard plot about a young woman embroiled in the politics of gorgeous, Machiavellian vampires.
Another example: later in the book, Cassie and her love interest discuss big chunks of backstory during a sex scene… and somehow, this doesn’t seem to break the mood at all, even though one of the topics is the murder of Cassie’s parents.It’s also irksome that so many historical figures are cast as vampires.
Every time I turned the page and saw wall to wall block typing I would groan, knowing there was more endless info-dumps to come before the story would progress an inch.
What little dialogue there was was constantly interrupted for more info-dumping.
Some of the characters were also quite intriguing - sadly, Pritkin was not one of them.
Clearly he must show some massive improvement as the series progresses, because there was nothing appealing about him here.
For what it's worth, I haven't read that series so my opinion was in no way influenced by that.
Thumbs Up  2.5Overall: Not sure about this series.Characters: Good.Plot: Storyline was solid.Page Turner: I guess Series Cont.?
Recommend  MaybeBook Boyfriend: TomasSUMMARY (50 word or less)I, personally, didn’t really enjoy most of this book.
The storyline was interesting, but she seems to be parodying Laurell Hamilton’s Anita Blake series without good results.
I also didn’t care much for Cassie.
And honestly, I didn’t like Anita Blake either.To see my full review rant and book boyfriend pic, check out my blog post.
http://mybookboyfriend.blogspot.com/2...Audio ReviewCynthia Holloway is a good narrator.
But I don’t like her in this series.
3.5 stars.I'm not completely sold on this story,there were some things that confused me and others that i didn't like too much but the concept is interesting and some of the characters are cool so I'll probably keep reading the rest of the series.
And, speaking of virgins, females apparently can become quite gifted in fellatio by simply becoming male in an alternate time period and learning tricks of the trade from French prostitutes.
SQUICKY!Finally, I learned that I must be getting old.
Okay, I'm only 34 at the time of reading this, but I felt like the author had ADHD at times with her jumping between action scenes with little or no segue.
However, I see after reading some other reviews -- I am not alone in my assessment.
A pretty standard vampire/paranormal novel, but very entertaining with a tough, likeable MC.
Cassie is a psychic (both in that she has visions of the past and the future, and she can see and talk to ghosts) young woman who grew up raised by a powerful, evil vampire - Tony- who kidnapped her as a baby in order to use her psychic powers for his own advantage.
Now in her 20s, she's in hiding and on the run from Tony and his men who want to kill her and have recently located her.
Overall, nothing unique or special to the genre, but an entertaining, enjoyable read.
