https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17981275-love-and-war
This book was the truth, well written & entertaining. Long live Yaya & Indie
This book had all the drama, mystery & surprise cast added (which I won't spoil)that I was not expecting for the tie-in. I'm now so confused as to who I want to really hold Yaya's heart!! My new boo Chase has definitely made the list of unseen eye candy!!! 10*** Ashley and the ending you left us with could stop or will leave you in thought for a part 5.
Yes Ashley!!!!
Yaya was finally able to rid herself of Leah.
I can't believe how easily he was willing to jeopardize his relationship with Yaya for Parker.
It's crazy how a man is willing to cause unnecessary problems within his relationship but as soon as the female does it they feel so betrayed.
Indie didn't realize what he messed up until someone else stepped in and showed Yaya what it was like to truly be wanted.
I was a fan of Indie's before but Ethnic came in and changed all of that.
Great read Ashley!!!
Crazy Read I'm sorry but I don't like YaYa she always plays the victim acting like she hasn't put Indie through hell and back.
But I have a feeling she's going to fool around with Ethic again .
I really do like Indie and Ethic .
And I was starting to like Parker until I found out her dusty self wasn't that innocent cheating on indie with his brother.
If u think about it both YaYa and Parker did indie wrong in the end.
But he always end up chasing behind YaYa .
I'm not sorry but I don't like YaYa ....
I enjoyed every page but it still left me wanting more. Indie and YaYa have the 'Happily Ever After' but will it last? Trina... another story waiting to be told.
I enjoyed reading this book because I like the concept and vibe in this book.
Once again, Ashley Antoinette did a good job.
I enjoyed reading to each of characters in this book.
There were a lot of love and war between Ya Ya & Indie or Indie and Parker or Ya Ya & Ethic.
I'm happy that Indie and Ya Ya are working out for their relationship because they are belonged together.
I wish there will be part 5 of The Prada Plan because I want to read about Ya Ya and Indie.
I'm looking forward to reading another book from Mrs. Antoinette.
I can't WAIT
Tug of War (3.5 stars)Ashley might've dropped the ball on the last installment, but she picked it and made a shot with this one.
I didn't realize how much I loved him in "Moth To A Flame" until he appeared out of nowhere in this book.
I don't know if Ashley didn't feel like remembering exactly what happened in the book, or she hoped that we forgot, but seems like some of us didn't forget.
You're too far in this game to be doing this, boo.Whoever edited this novel didn't do a good job, but I somewhat can't blame them.
Maybe Ashley will write a part 5 to explain.
Caught me by surprise, who knew Disaya has it in her to push Leah I mean come on all this time, and all that drama it should have been easy why did Leah have to say something...
I'm not too sure I would have forgiven Indie.
How could he say after all she did he forgave her, really how bout she came back to your ass after you beat her while she was pregnant and left her for dead, not to mention hooked up with the real enemy.
I wanna know what's going to happen to Trine and what about the new love birds?
The Finale and what a finale it was. I really enjoyed this novel! I was really hoping and then not hoping Ya Ya and Indie would get it together but on the side I wanted her to have a happily ever after with the new guy! This couple really did go through a lot to end up together and in the end their love won out. It was truly a love and war type of novel. The book was very well written and I recommend the entire series. Thanks for a great read Ashley!
Awesome readTwist around every corner...Don't know what your gonna get from one page to another. Sad that the Prada plan ended.
I'm heartbroken!!! Why Ethic, why???
Book 4 in this tale of revenge and jealousy picks up right where it left off.
Left at the alter, Indie doesn't know if love is in the cards for him and Yaya.
There were also moments of suspense; I didn't know how this book would end even up until the last page!
The connecting of this storyline to another pass book was done ingeniously.
I loved the connection each character shared.
It seemed so real that some scenes were even hard for me to read because it played on my emotions.
Character development was on point: I really saw a lot of growth in Indie and Yaya.
Will Dasaiya and Indie ever have a happy ever after?????Book 4 had me feelin some kind of wait smh I was like whoooooo the hell is Parker.......Indie always remained loyal to YaYa but boy did Parker have her claws in him With Leah gone I just knew the couple would finally be at peace.
In the end Indie and Disaya tied the knot but is it with Indie she wanted to forever be with or is it Ethic hummmmm???????
Will there be a book 5.....
This was good once I got into it, a very quick read.I was pissed at Indie. I want Ezra to find love I hope there's a book for him. Parker, Parker an Parker she made her bed, Elaine should have said something the day she surface. I felt like everybody turned there back on YaYa but in the end she's still standing. So much was left open. We will see
I agree with some of the other reviews. The ending seemed rushed. There was great story development throughout the book. The question of whether it is possible to love two people at once was presented well. Overall, it was as good as I expected it to be.
Pretty good book. I just feel like the story was rushed towards the end. Things happened so fast!
man this book is everything! i loved it so much. finished it in 2 days! best 1 out of the series in my opinion
This one had me mad angry sad it took me through all the emotions!!! Can't wait for Prada plan 5 in 2017 great book must read like all of her books!!!
StunnedThis author never ceases to amaze me with the details of her story I'm an emotional wreck but I would recommend this series to everyone !!!
*SPOILERS*Random thoughts as I listened to book 4Pro • Cary Hite’s narration• Ethic’s character crossover from Moth to a flame• The end of the Leah & YaYa storyline• The promise of Chase and Mia & the treachery of TrinaCons• YaYa• Indie• Not a lot of storyline movementPoints of irritability• *Yaya went from wanting Leah dead for 3 entire books, only for her to decide that she couldn't kill her in yet another cliffhanger. But book 4 opens with Yaya being determined is her wanting to kill
Really?•	*Indie 4 books later and his character is JUST now realizing Leah is not a scorned ex?
In book 2, the connection between Indie and Chase was laid out and explained really well.
I think people who want Yaya and Indie together just do because they have been the focus since book 1 despite no evidence of their alleged deep love.
Love that allows indie to choose or believe everyone but Yaya when it counts.
Or is it?They finally got it right this time around!
Life seems to happen in the craziest ways for Indie and Yaya...
just when Yaya finally gets rid of her biggest adversary (Leah) and is finally getting a chance to marry Indie, here comes Parker the woman who left Indie high and dry with a broken heart years ago.
This time around Indie has me really pissed because of his indecisiveness.
He left Yaya at the alter to run after Parker, only to have the truth expose Parker’s true intentions behind her reemergence.
Then as always Indie runs back to Yaya begging for her forgiveness.
I can see how Yaya has matured and grown over the course of the last few books.
The only problem I have with Indie in this book is his indecisiveness which is a decision.
I knew Parker wasn’t right from the get go but of course Indie let his emotions get the best of him.
I loved him from A Moth to A Flame.
His way with words and just him in general is enough to fall in love with.
I can’t believe Indie had the nerve to be upset once finding out about Ethic and Yaya
Finally..Finally..Finally The Prada Plan Saga ...you got it right this time Ashley Antoinette.
Now, this was a good book.
Everything about The Prada plan 4 was a more realistic story.
I can truthfully say I enjoyed this book out of the first 3 books.
The characters were great and each person was executed in the storyline perfectly.
Ethnic was defined perfect in the story as a gracious changed handsome responsible man as he was place in the story.
I loved it!
India had a lot more to learn to be a man.
So mad with the way this ended!!! I’m still going to keep reading to see how it ends. The best part was that their normal narrator was back to read and he didn’t disappoint!!! Love!! Cary Hite reading for the “Hood Chronicles”
Indie Perkins got it bad for Disaya aka YaYa and their baby girl. HEA all day long (smile). Hopefully, Ethnic, Indie's brother will turn up in Book 5.
AMAZING! I didn't think this series could get any better but, it sure did! This book is definitely my favorite out of the series.
omg this story is taking me all over the place.. from beginning to end this ride is wild.. love definitely is war.. watch out for these tangled webs that have been woven
The audio-book was not that good they changed out the person who normally reads the books for someone who i just couldn't get a good feeling for the book i felt disconnected
Good Book.. glad to get to the end of the book.. I guess it still seemed strange with adding the new characters and then they have drama that comes along with them. Good read.. wouldn't be mad if this is the end of this series though.
