https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/556975.Onion_John
This book is a great story about a twelve year old boy who befriends an immigrant. They develop a strong friendship. The immigrant was almost killed by the kindness of the town's people.I recommend this book highly. A great book to read to your kids.Enjoy and Be Blessed.
Read this years ago --when my daughter was around 10 or 11 years old. (now 34 years old)Its such a wonderful -timeless' story!Thanks to **Diamond**....(for the reminder and memory of this book)GREAT book to pick for your kids!
And speaking of Newbery Award winners, here is 1960's.
Being a compulsive list maker, I'm proud to report that I have now read 42 of the past 77 award winners, and despite some recent doubts in the press about the Newbery, I have found that this project an excellent avenue to get a feel for children's literature.
Although we adults often criticize children for lacking focus, this is something they are often much better at than their elders.
And the moral of the story is? Don't try to force a crazy bum into not being a crazy bum anymore, because they'll just turn out to be a crazy bum anyway.
As a kid, one of my favorite books was My Side of the Mountain, which got an honor in 1960, the year that Onion John won.
I think that's partly what happened here.Another reason I think the 1960 committee chose Onion John over MSOTM is because it fit the time period very well.
MSOTM is a timeless book that fits in with any time period, but the 1960 committee saw how well Onion John described their current world, and they chose that one.Anyways, what happened happened.
The book is quite good, I just didn't like it.Then the story finally kicks it into high gear, you discover that you care about these characters, everything that has been told to you was laid out for a reason.
But there are times in life when good intentions go horribly awray, a fact laid out clearly in this book by the town building Onion John a house to bring him up to date.Onion John's plight mirrors that of Andy, Andy's father refuses to take his son's thoughts seriously and has planned a great future for him.
Because I have made a commitment to read all the Newberry Award winners, I plowed ahead...and boy, am I glad that I did.
I thought that the book was one of the best that I have read.
That was the only problem that I saw in the book.
Onion John carries the important message of how we, as adults, trying to force our ideals of what a better life is upon other people.
What are we trying to prove to him, that he's wrong?'"I highly recommend Onion John to all interested in good literature with a great message...a message that we, as adults, should take very seriously!
Andy is the only person in town who was able to befriend the town vagrant and crazy person "Onion John." With focus and determination, Andy learns John's "language" and worships him as the ultimate role model.
He even goes so far as to convince the town to build John a "proper" house.As disaster strikes and John disappears, Andy is faced with disasters of his own--suddenly he is staring the pressures manhood in the face--and with this new found maturity, he finally understands why the rest of the town could never bear to befriend this man.This story truly exemplifies the trials of growing up--especially in a world that is changing as much as it did in the late 50's.
Read in the 4th grade and ___ years later still remember it like it was yesterday. This book started my love of words, thoughts and books. It has a true life moral to the story about how to accept other peoples ways and respect their right to be who they are in this world. The basic story the townfolk try to "bless" the odd man out with the introduction to a totally new way of life, so foriegn to his own, which results in the main character thinking something is wrong with him....Newbery winner, worth a good reading time.
George was difficult to understand when he spoke, like Onion John, but for a different reason.
And, like Onion John, George wanted to make his own way.
And, like Onion John, the town helped out, but in a gentler way.
And the kids came by to joke with George and buy things from him.
Like Onion John, George was seen by the kids of the town as "cool".
Onion John reminded me of George and reading the book was, in a way, a walk down memory lane to the same time this story took place.
I read this book in fourth grade.While I remember hardly nothing of the book itself, I remember that I truly hated it.
It lived up to the onion hype.
Well, survived it. I don't really understand how this won the Newbery. This is not particularly fun to read, nor particularly insightful. I'm still not sure where Onion John is supposed to be from, the saint from his hometown is named Stepan and I did find a saint Stepan that was Hungarian which would sort of fit with the story. Krumgold does a very good job describing day to day life with the direct focus that children often have. It's too bad he's always writing from the point of view of children who aren't much fun to hang out with.
Andy Rusch, Jr., has a lot of growing up to do in this book.
And his interactions with his unusual friend, Onion John, help him do just that.I loved the feel of this book, almost as though I were reading an episode of the Andy Griffith Show.
The characters were very believable, notably Onion John (and his many strange rituals), Andy Rusch, Sr., and Andy Rusch, Jr. It is the bond between the latter two that really forms the crux of this novel.
I've seen books that tackle similar topics that crashed at the final hurdle, but Krumgold ties his story together well.
That was a really beautiful chapter, and it made me realize that the relationship between those two characters was far more interesting than anything Onion John had done in the preceding 200+ pages.
Maybe the reason I was so frustrated with the book is that it kept feeding me pages of non sequitur Onion John shenanigans when I really just wanted more about the kid and his dad.On a Newbery note: Many early Newberys are about appreciating foreign cultures.
This book inverts that theme by having the foreigner be a person who lives in the midst of a typical 1950s town.
This was quite different.
It's the story of a boy's friendship with the town outsider, and the effect that bond has on the boy's father-son relationship, and on the close-knit community.
I can't say I identified with it much.
However, I did like the issues Krumgold raised about the right way to offer to help someone.
In this case, do you offer the help you think the person needs, even if he/she doesn't really want it?
How do you know that you know best what he/she needs?
Here, we see the down sides of being a push-ahead do-gooder.
This is a sad, sweet, and in-depth book that may have a bit of symbolism involved in it. The ending is kind of weird but strangely satisfying with more of a "use-your-imagination-to-find-out-what-happens" climax. I liked the descriptions of John's old house and his lifestyle. The story will make you get mad at some people and sympathize with others, and with some exception, I found this a both touching and convincing entry in the Newbery list.
I liked this book a lot. While in the middle I thought, "How did I not know about this book before now??" It kind of bogs down towards the end but I enjoyed the character and style- reminded me of Will Tweedy and Cold Sassy Tree. I'm reading my way thru the Newbery winners and was glad to find this one.
I was not expecting this book to be good, but it's amazing. It starts out seeming like most books written in the 50's but then suddenly it's starts dealing with all sorts of complex ideas like how hard it is to help people, and how our ideas of what's best for people aren't always accurate. It also beautifully explores the pain and loss involved in growing up.
It's the story of Andy, a boy of 12 to 14 years old.
Through a slight coincidence, Andy ends up in the town dump where he sits down with Onion John.Onion John is well known in the town of Serenity as the friendly man.
No one knows John's back story.
However, on that day in the dump, Andy suddenly can understand his dialect.And then during the summer, Andy partakes of adventures with Onion John.
And then Andy's father gets the bright idea that the whole town should band together to build John a new house.
And now Andy is torn between his friend and the father that he loves.It was a very interesting book.
Newbery Medal Winner--1960Not a great start to the 60's. I just couldn't get into this one. From the weird fact that only Andy can decipher Onion John's mumblings to the fact no one seems to care what Onion John wants, this was just a mess of a story. The interactions between the kids and Onion John (who we find out is an immigrant with the mind of a child) and his strange beliefs, it was hard to be engaged. I understand the overall theme of "letting others make their own choices", but it just wasn't interesting.
I was more interested in the relationship between Andy and his father than in the relationship between Andy and Onion John. If the book had been focused on that I would have liked it more. There was so much to explore there.
book 2Andy has always seen Onion John but never met him. One day after baseball he wanted to go talk to John. John can’t speak english but after a while Andy understood what he was saying. They were very good friends and the town wanted to build John a house. Sometimes Onion John tried to hard to be like a normal person.  John changes in many ways. That makes Andy worry. He tries not to eat onions for breakfast and other things like being a good friend. And not to try be someone else because lot
book 2Andy has always seen Onion John but never met him.
They were very good friends and the town wanted to build John a house.
He tries not to eat onions for breakfast and other things like being a good friend.
One thing I did not like about the book was how they ended it.
He also was a different friend to Andy.
But when he tries to be different many things go wrong.
One thing I liked was that it was about it was it was about being a good friend.
Lots of people liked how John was before he tried to change.
Onion John is the story of a boy, Andy, from a small town where everybody knows everybody.
Throughout the boy's friendship with Onion John, Andy and his father face and work through problems of expectations for Andy's future and the way they perceive reality and make decisions.
The three main characters, Andy, Onion John, and Mr. Rusch (the father) are all well-rounded and enjoyable to read.
The setting (1950s small town) is beautifully depicted, which makes it a fun way to go back in time and learn more about the feel of the period, but also makes the story harder to understand for the average young reader.
Onion John reminds me of ...And Now Miguel, because Andy Rausch, Jr., like Miguel, is “growing up.” Like many of the Newbery Award winners, the writing is middle-school level, but the themes are worthy of adult conversations.Serenity, a white, American, small town, reminds me of the Connecticut town where I grew up.
However, he is against Onion John’s fumigating the town and calls Onion John’s plan “illogical” and “without sense.” In other words, he uses his dad’s words to contradict Onion John.Andy Sr. is mortified, when Onion John tells him that he is leaving Serenity and that he has no desire for the burnt house to be re-built.
Only five authors in the 90+ year history of the Newbery Medal have won that honor twice.
The town's efforts to bring John into the 20th century, whether he wants it or not, mirror Andy's father's attempts to plan the course of Andy's life, and these parallel plot strands converge at the end of the book.The world of Onion John is that small-town America that's increasingly unfamiliar today, where the most influential organization in town is the Rotary Club, and the most important social event of the year involves beating on the ice of the frozen river in order to drive the fish into a downstream net.
He is full of folklore and mysticism and to the young he seems magical.As far as the Disney Channel and all the rest, I'll leave that for you to discover if you should choose to read this book.I read it as a child and I think I liked it, although I couldn't remember a single thing about the story.
I wish I could remember my impressions of this book as a child because as an adult, I was much more focused on Andy's father and Onion John that I was on Andy and his friends.Krumgold also wrote ...And Now Miguel, which wasn't particularly memorable (in spite of also winning the Newbery), but which demonstrated a similar deftness of his at it comes to creating quiet, earnest characters.
Andy discovers he is the only one who can understand him and becomes his best friend.Onion John is beloved by the town of Serenity but since no one can understand him or the peculiar superstitious things he does for good luck or to make it rain, he is left alone.
Andy introduces Onion John to his father who in turn learns of the living conditions and peculiarities his son is being subjected to and decides to go to the rotary to suggest building a new house for Onion John.
Andy takes the time to actually listen to Onion John, and finds that he can understand him, and effectively becomes his interpreter--and inadvertently leads the adults in town to reorganize John's life for him, which involves tearing down his tumbledown shack and building him a modern cottage, which he almost instantly sets on fire.3.
No one but Andy takes the time to understand what John wants.This book does all that, and I'm glad I got to read at least a little of it to my kids, but we didn't finish reading it together.
When Andy takes the time to listen, he opens his mind to John’s world of naïve superstition.Mr. Rusch has big plans for Andy, including college at MIT and he doesn’t approve of the friendship.
Andy wants to please his father, but whose dream is it?In an effort to understand, Mr. Rusch reaches out to Andy’s friend.
The story takes a turn when Mr. Rusch and the townspeople decide they know how to better Onion John’s life.
