https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110590.MLA_Handbook_for_Writers_of_Research_Papers
According to the blurb on the back cover, NEWSWEEK has said the MLA Handbook is "The style bible for most college students," and I'm confident this is very much the truth.
If the Bible was the greatest story ever told, then the MLA Handbook is, perhaps, the greatest necessary evil ever written.So, I'll average my ratings -- 0 for "pleasurable read" and 10 for "useful reference" -- and give the MLA Handbook 5 stars.To summarize, the MLA Handbook is a must have item for any serious writer of research papers.
Furthermore, if I may offer a few words of advice to the wise student: Use it.
A great, terrifying scrutiny of every single thing you need to know about writing a proper, acceptable thesis. Super-annoying, super-useful. Confusing with its wealth of detail but really simple if you know where you’re headed. I got a really blasting headache making sense of it.Citing a thesis is definitely harder than writing a thesis. Now, please spare the poor person who spent years on researching and writing. Wasn’t that enough for you folks up there???  Leave us alone!!!
Everyone dies in the end.
Useful, yes. Also, it makes good kindling when you're ready to go on the lam after murdering people due to the absurdity of the MLA format.
Naturally, this has been the go-to citation format guide for years, as I had this text assigned to me when I was a college student and I've assigned it as an English professor to my classes.
It's still important to note as it's been my experience that citation guidelines in general are great at covering print sources but not so much online or media-related content.Overall, this is still the go-to guide for MLA citation, so it's a worthwhile text for students as well as researchers and instructors.
Research and Writing2.
Documentation: Preparing the List of Works Cited6.
Documentation: Citing Sources in the Text7.
Abbreviations"If you borrow more than once from the same source within a single paragraph and no borrowing from another source intervenes, you may give a single parenthetical reference after the last borrowing.""The second parenthetical citation omits the author's name.
You may use a note, for example, to give full publication facts for an original source for which you cite an indirect source and perhaps to explain why you worked from secondary material." Bibliographic notes point the reader to other resources, "For strong points of view on different aspects of the issue, see Public Agenda Foundation 1-10 and Sakala 151-188."
At some point in my life, most probably when I was in college, but maybe in high school too, I used this book as a guide to writing a research paper. I didn't read the book cover to cover. That would be silly.I'll probably have to use it again if I ever write another research paper. The chance of that happening is slim.
I've never found a MLA formatting book that I've been happy with. This one lives up to the low standard I've grown to expect for MLA books. It seems every time I need to do a strange quotation, these books never really have an answer in an easily findable/existing manner.
If I never have to see this book again..it will be too soon!!!!!!
it's okay. purdue owl writing center has a more useful resource webpage on citations.
MLA: Mona Lisa’s Attitude was-first off-not quite the romantic dramedy that I was expecting, but boy did it get hot and heavy once I figured out what was going on.
From the meta plot (a textbook written by a man madly in love with Mona Lisa and her voluptuous attitude) to the monotonous pages on paper formatting highlighting the meaninglessness of love.
But through these themes the fictional author writing this textbook also burns with the fire of a romantic era composer.
The pages in which he uses Page Margins as a template for his love for Mona Lisa serve as the climax of this sensual format.
I just wanted to understand the reasoning behind MLA format well enough to teach it.To do that, I had to read a boring non-fiction book that, ironically, is about how to write interesting non-fiction.The Modern Language Association should be ashamed of this.
Boring, but well-formatted.
This book use to be my go to source for research papers. In recent times, my professors assign special standards for research papers.
Absolutely riveting.
Wie auch immer, es ist nicht an mir zu entscheiden, wie MLA auszusehen hat und dass es eigentlich komplett schwachsinnig ist, bei Webseiten keine Links anzugeben und bei Büchern keine ISBN, das müssten die Geisteswissenschaftler unter sich ausmachen.Letzendlich hat dieses Buch einen eher begrenzten Nutzen, es gibt bessere Webseiten wieMLA Formatting and Style Guide - Purdue Online Writing Lab (owl.english.purdue.edu)Wenn man das Buch denn mal hat, kann man hinten (mit sehr viel Mühe) einen Code freirubbeln, der einem Zugang zur Onlineausgabe des Buches gibt (die nicht wirklich besser oder übersichtlicher ist).Mit fehlen wirklich einfache Übersichten, wo die Basics einfach und übersichtlich zusammengefasst sind.
New York: Modern Language Association of America.Citation created by: Amanda DaughertyType of reference: HandbookCall number: 808.027Description: This is the handbook that contains all the rules and examples to use when citing information using the MLA format.Content/Scope: This is the 7th edition of the MLA handbook.
Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.This is the handbook to another popular format of citing information; however, most curriculums rely on students to use MLA citations when writing a paper.Timeliness/Permanence: This will need to be updated each time a new version comes out since rules and newer information sources become available all the time.Cost: $22.00 Rationale for Selection: It is required in the Common Core Standards in Language Arts that students know how to cite information using the MLA format.
MLA handbook for writers of research papers, 7th edition.
It provides an authoritative source of up to date information about the writing process and style.Citation of a Review: Booklist review.
Retrieved from http://booklistonline.com/MLA-Handboo....Cost: $22.00Relevance and Relationship: The MLA Handbook is a guide for any student attempting to research and them write an essay or a research paper.
This book will aide students as they determine style and form of their writing as well as writing citations and bibliographies.
Purpose: The purpose of the book is to be a guide for students as they write research papers or essays.
Gibaldi, J. (2003). MLA handbook for writers of research papers. New York: Modern Language Association of America.Citation created by: Tom ShawCall Number: LB2369 .G53 2003 Description: This handbook is an easy-to-use reference that can be used to guide students through the task of doing the groundwork, writing and documenting effective research papers. Content/Scope: Writing style, abbreviations, proper citations, and formatting are covered, along with new material on citing electronic informat
New York: Modern Language Association of America.Citation created by: Tom ShawCall Number: LB2369 .G53 2003	Description: This handbook is an easy-to-use reference that can be used to guide students through the task of doing the groundwork, writing and documenting effective research papers.
Content/Scope: Writing style, abbreviations, proper citations, and formatting are covered, along with new material on citing electronic information.
The MLA Handbook is published by the Modern Language Association, the authority on MLA documentation style.
Arrangement/Presentation: Sections are arranged by step-by-step process for researching and writing papers.Timeliness/Permanence: This reference book was published in 2003, so its content and relevance will change little in the future.
MLA handbook for writers of research papers (7th ed.).
Citation: Tiffany Morgan Type of Reference: Handbook Call Number: Ref 808Content/Scope: This reference handbook contains useful information for anyone writing a research paper in MLA format.
Accuracy/Authority/Bias: It is published by the Modern Language Association of America and has been adopted by many universities to guide their students.
Arrangement/Presentation: It is a paperback copy in it's 7th edition and is a great resource to use as a quick guide to help writers.
Accessibility/ Diversity: This is applicable to all people writing research papers.
Relation: This is especially useful for high students in high school English classes and those who are preparing for college.
What this book lacks in entertainment purposes it more then makes up for it in the educational aspects.
There is not one element of MLA style that they have not covered in this book.
If you are trying to cite something you can look it up in this book and they will have dozens of different examples for every possibility.
I used this book a lot for my Comm III class and it helped me understand why I needed to do certain things while writing a paper.
Also, if you are a organizational freak like me, this book will make you happy because they have a place for everything.
When I was in college this was the standard for research papers. And I'd agree it's much easier to use and more lucid than the Blue Book I'd later have to use for legal citations. It's true though that this edition, published in 1995 is probably dated. And given I've finished my higher education, I can't see a reason to keep it any longer on my shelves--but it sure gave good service during my college years--and if you're in or about to enter college--I'd certainly recommend getting whatever is the latest edition.
So I'm not real sure how to edit this, but it was a challenge. In an effort to improve my knowledge and grammatical and editorial skills I decided, like A.J. Jacobs did with the encyclopedia to read this thing straight through. I did glean a bevy of knowledge on how to cite appropriately and I now k ow that the abbreviation for ezra is...ezra, but overall I'd say to leave this book fir what it's meant for...referencing for when you're unsure of something instead of reading it all the way through.
This was my core book from my subject bibliographies class in school. It was incredibly useful and my copy has all my notes, highlights, and underlines of the key points of referencing print materials and web documents.Purely reference. Lol, marking this as "read" amuses me, since I didn't read it cover to cover, though, my copy is well-used.Too bad a the new edition is out so the shiny sixth is a bit out of date.
I had originally purchased this book because it was required for my British Literature class. I find this odd, since he never assigned a paper. However, it did come in handy for the paper I had to write in my political science class, so there ya go. As far as instruction manuals go, this one was pretty in depth, yet easy to understand. If you are just starting out writing papers or if you need to put some polish on your work, this is a good volume to check out.
ho ho!! what fun!!! if you've ever had to take an english class....i'm sure you hate/love this book too!!! i don't even know how this book gets sold anymore. citation changes so often, and there really does seem to be a real shift towards ama, or apa, or whatever the hell the citation that starts with an a is....
Mind boggling read. All in all it has to be read to fit in, communicate, and be part of an association with such rules. At times i wished it would be in the shape of info graphs. Explaining through nice attention grasping, not dull illustrative examples. If this..If that..If...If...If...In cases of...
The Purdue OWL is probably the best source in the world for anything writing, however this manual comes in at a close second to the OWL because of its ease of instruction. the instructions are clear and concise, and you don't have to hunt all over the book for the info you need.
A good guide for beginners, but it does not cover the needs of anyone actually serious with style. Contains some questionable advice, including the one on capitalising coordinating conjunctions in titles of works while setting subordinating conjunctions in lower-case. Seriously.
UGH BLAH EWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWW WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY did you have to make your contents SOOOOO SPECIFIC!!! I am having so much trouble writing my bibliography! Is the APA method any easier? I will see. But who cares, teachers decide anyways! ok I will stop complaining
