https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1705748.Earthlight
The story tells us that even if we live on Moon or Mars, we are the same people as before.The author believes that history will be repeatedThe coolest thing about this book for me was describing the separation of the moon and the earth to the Separation of Britain and America.
Earthlight, Arthur C. ClarkeEarthlight is a science fiction novel by British writer Arthur C. Clarke, published in 1955. Earthlight is a science fiction adventure story set on the Moon, where a government agent is looking for a suspected spy at a major observatory on the Moon. The context is strong tension between Earth (which controls the Moon) and independent settlers elsewhere in the solar system. The year is not given, but it is some time in the 22nd century. There have been no wars for the
ClarkeEarthlight is a science fiction novel by British writer Arthur C.
The year is not given, but it is some time in the 22nd century.
There have been no wars for the last 200 years.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1994 میلادیعنوان: زمین افروز؛ اثر: آرتور سی.
کلارک؛ مترجم: هوشنگ غیاثی‌ نژاد ؛ تهران، پاسارگاد، 1370؛ در 312 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1373؛ موضوع: داستانهای خیال انگیز علمی از نویسندگان انگلیسی - قرن 20 مدر این کتاب، کلارک تجربه ی تازه ای کرده، ایشان داستان تخیلی خویش را با رگه ای از ترفند پلیسی آمیخته است.
استانلی کوبریک کارگردان شهیر سینما، کلارک را اعجوبه خوانده است.
เบอรแทรม แซดเลอร ถูกสงขึนไปตรวจสอบบัญชีทีหอดูดาวบนดวงจันทร แตนันไมใชภารกิจทีแทจริงของเขา เปนแนวสายลับทีไมไดมีอะไรหวือหวาโฉงฉาง เรืองราวดำเนินไปอยางชาๆ เรียบๆ จนคนอานเกือบจะถอดใจ กวาจะสนุกชวงกลางเลมแตสมกับเปนฮารดไซไฟ อธิบายสภาพบนดวงจันทรเสียละเอียดยิบ อดสงสัยไมไดจนตองไปกางแผนทีดวงจันทรวาภูเขานีหลุมนันมันอยูตรงไหน อธิบายทฤษฎีอาวุธยันทฤษฎีการสือสารทีใชในเรือง
เบอร์แทรม แซดเลอร์ ถูกส่งขึ้นไปตรวจสอบบัญชีที่หอดูดาวบนดวงจันทร์ แต่นั่นไม่ใช่ภารกิจที่แท้จริงของเขา เป็นแนวสายลับที่ไม่ได้มีอะไรหวือหวาโฉ่งฉ่าง เรื่องราวดำเนินไปอย่างช้าๆ เรียบๆ จนคนอ่านเกือบจะถอดใจ กว่าจะสนุกช่วงกลางเล่มแต่สมกับเป็นฮาร์ดไซไฟ อธิบายสภาพบนดวงจันทร์เสียละเอียดยิบ อดสงสัยไม่ได้จนต้องไปกางแผนที่ดวงจันทร์ว่าภูเขานี้หลุมนั้นมันอยู่ตรงไหน อธิบายทฤษฎีอาวุธยันทฤษฎีการสื่อสารที่ใช้ในเรื่อง
This is a really fine science fiction spy novel set on the Moon.
Though not a masterpiece of mid 50's scifi, it is what is to be expected by early Clarke: Intelligent, clever, inventive, efficiently executed, and as always, optimistic.
I enjoyed this more than expected.
Full of wild speculations of what the Moon might be like, once reached.The novel, in parts, reminded me of Heinlein's, "The Moon is a Hard Mistress", yet it isn't anything close to that calibre, however, one can almost make a case that Heinlein might have read this and thought...
Not bad, my good friend.
Those scientists are all male, the few women working with them are glorified clerks.In many other ways the ideas are fresh and at times almost revolutionary.
At the beginning of the story there is a colony on the moon and humans are in the process of colonising the planets of the solar system.
The examination of people's character, the reasons why some would side with the mother planet and some with the colonies is what stands the test of time.
Even when a wry smile is raised simply because the way science has developed since the writing of the book means the ideas are outdated the central conceit of the story still holds true.
There is sufficient characterization to make for interesting characters.
The novel does qualify as hard Sci-Fi for the period when written.
I suspect many today would laugh at some of the science explained.
What I found most interesting was his description of the moon's milieu.
My edition has a preface by Clarke written in Nov. 1971.
He explains some updates to the novel's science due to advancement made since 1941 (when the novel was started).
He also tells of Jim Irwin and Dave Scott's naming a crater 'Earthlight' during the Apollo 15 mission to Clarke's delight.
Tensions are rising between Earth and her colonies, and an unwilling secret agent is tasked to search fro a spy in the observatory on the far side of the moon.It's a tight little thriller masquerading as a hard SF novel and it's quite brilliant.
Notable for what is probably the most realistically describes space battle ever written, and the most unlikely rescue ever written, it's an excellent and highly rewarding read.
In this early novel by Clarke, Bertram Sadler, a CIA operative, is sent to the Moon to investigate a suspected spy and prevent an interplanetary war.
It's a short novel at 158 pages and straightforward plot, with imaginative descriptions of life on the moon, some of which still seem visionary, and some ludicrously dated.
Still enjoyable on the whole, and Clarke's optimism for the human future shines.
I'd recommend A Fall of Moondust, Childhood's End, The City and the Stars, 2001: A Space Odyssey (film or novel) or a collection of his short stories over this one.
As per usual, Clarke has interesting ideas and a book as exciting as bending cardboard.
این ترجمه رو به هیچ عنوان نگیرید، بهجاش میتونید زمین افروز غیاثینژاد یا نور زمین قصّاع رو بخونید. در این حد بده که من به این کتاب فحش میدادم، بعد یه ترجمهٔ دیگه رو ازش خوندم و تا آخر کتاب نفهمیدم این همون کتابه! جملهٔ آخر اون ترجمه رو که خوندم، تازه فهمیدم این همون کتابیه که دو سه ماه پیش خوندمش!
‫این ترجمه رو به هیچ عنوان نگیرید، به‌جاش می‌تونید زمین افروز غیاثی‌نژاد یا نور زمین قصّاع رو بخونید. در این حد بده که من به این کتاب فحش می‌دادم، بعد یه ترجمهٔ دیگه رو ازش خوندم و تا آخر کتاب نفهمیدم این همون کتابه! جملهٔ آخر اون ترجمه رو که خوندم، تازه فهمیدم این همون کتابیه که دو سه ماه پیش خوندمش!
Old, scientifically dated, boring, and appallingly sexist. (The only women mentioned, besides a wife back on Earth, are the six "girls" from computing who have fragile reputations, and an expensive mistress. Only the wife has a name, and none have voices.)Normally I don't need interesting characters so much in SF, as I'm more interested in the What If ideas... but this doesn't even have a sense of wonder.
With mankind spreading around the Solar System, scarcity of certain resources leads to tensions between the governments of Earth (covering Earth and Moon) and Federation (covering other planets and satellites).
As the conflict for resources develops, an agent from an Intelligence Agency of Earth travels to the Moon, trying to uncover a spy passing information to the Federation.Earthlight is a short book, and tells a simple but interesting story.
Its descriptions of a Moon society, although dated by the technology described there, are detailed and satisfying, and a certain amount of optimism and hope can be perceived all throughout the book.
Iako roman pati od zastarelosti, krasi ga realistican scenario u kome se planeta Zemlja sukobljava sa svojim kolonijama oko resursa. Kao i obicno, Klark je veoma detaljan oko naucno-tehnickih aspekata price i daje realistican prikaz fizike svemira. Moderan citalac i dalje moze da nauci dosta toga iz ovog romana stoga mu sa lakocom dodeljujem 4 zvezdice.
I enjoyed this a lot more than I was expecting to. Written in 1955 some of the assumptions about future technology is hilarious.
Short and to the point. Vivid moon description and casual style add to the enjoyment.
This novel was written in 1955 at a time when little was known about the Moon's surface and in particularly people thought there was deep sand when actually very little erosion takes place as there is no atmosphere and no wind.
In one scene they are travelling across the Moon and end up sinking in the sand in what has been fragmented by the alien's energy beams.
Earth of course repels the invasion and the alien's energy beams are utilized and put to use blasting the Moon's core for more efficient mining purposes.
A bit of space espionage in an ACC novel?
The convention ACC has used in every novel up to this point is a character through whom we can learn things--not the expert, but a reporter or spy or investigator or someone who can be smarter than us but not too smart, so that he needs things explained to him.
I think this is the best and most original use of that convention so far in ACC's novels.
I like the very short war in the book--very realistic.
I really don't think ACC understands half of the human race.
It's been a couple years since I read a Clarke novel, once my favorite science fiction writer. You can expect the usual Clarke: accurate science, great descriptions of the physics & geology, an easily imagined world, but also flat characters, oversimplification of plot, and a bit of a thin read in this case. Earthlight is one of his weaker novels for sure, but it's a comfortable space to be in.6/10
Clarke's books are always worth reading, even if it's his lesser work.
Which is what I would consider this book.
Clarke writes about plants on the moon and the breathable environment on Mars.
The real negative for me is that this book basically gives up on it's original premise.
But it seems Clarke couldn't find a good way to continue down that thread so the main protagonist gives up his hunt for a spy and the latter half of this short novel turns out to be a war story.
Still, it's a very good read and it won't take up much of your time.

4.5 stars. Despite being written in 1955, and despite the fact that not everything in this book is exactly as we know things to be now, this is still a really amazing hard science fiction book about the moon.I really enjoyed this book - it's a fast read, and the science is very realistic. Clarke did a fine job with the characters, and wrapped up the story neatly at the end.One of Clarke's best works from the early years. Recommended!
Space is big, and life is small.A. C. Clarke not only has deep insights into human nature, and to what science can become, but also a natural and poetic way of writing. Such beautiful prose, such lovely ideas!This book I've dubbed "Mystery and Intrigue ... In Space", and it follows in the grand tradition of "___ In Space" (see the Mars trilogy for an example of "Cowboys in Space"). None the less SciFi for also being sort of James Bond. A must-read for lovers of classic SF.
Sandler Bertram, learned that the concept of the heavy metals on the Moon discovered will advance a war amidst the Earth, and the younger colonies Mars and Venus.He was purposely sent to the observatory as an accountant to inspect a group of scientist on the Moon. Bertram was looking forward to attain on who was posting data to the hidden warship in outer space that can create a colossal conflict between the Earth, and its colonies.
One of the best space battle descriptions I've ever read! Clarke at his best.
Monumentally boring in a short space.
This book is about a government agent from Earth who has to travel to the Moon to find a spy.
A spy who is sending information to the planets of the Federation about the mineral resources of the Moon.Why is that important?
Earth scientists discovered a way to exploit the mineral resources of the Moon, but the government decided to stay quiet, in order to avoid the Federation requests for more minerals.Somehow, the Federation is informed about what is happening on the Moon; which makes the Earth government realizes that there must be a spy.
In all the important parts, the agent from Earth is nowhere to be found.Does that mean is a bad book?
A typical science fiction novel of the 1930s, where the technology of the distant future is imagined to be massive walls of diodes and dials.
The thinly plotted spy chase conceit is uninteresting because what Clark really wants to get to is his usual theme of racial redemption and his imagining of how easily humanity will adapt to life in space.
His explanation as to why Earth is so blessed is the moon, which generated massive tidal forces during the era when the Earth was cooling, pulling these heavy metals to ward the surface.
Clark wrote good and thoughtfully premised science fiction, but his characters are wooden and his situations are contrived.
Over time, Sadler builds a list of top suspects while both the Earth and the Federation create weapons of mass destruction in a prelude to war.The first half of Earthlight is slow and plodding as Sadler meets various members of the observatory's staff and is schooled on various as aspects of their operations and of astronomy.
The tension in the story begins to build in the second half when the observatory receives a communication warning the staff to dismantle critical equipment and take shelter underground.
A war is coming, one that will decide who has control of the moon's abundant supply of heavy metals deep within its core.
Напрежението между Земята и Федерацията, породено от неотделянето на достатъчно ресурси от първата за втората, избухва в кратка студена, и още по-кратка "гореща" война.
Всъщност той е агент на военното разузнаване, чиято задача е да намери "къртица" на Федерацията, от която изтича информация към нея.За произведение, публикувано за първи път през 1955-а не е лошо.
Проблемът е, че няма нищо запомнящо се в него.
Главният герой е не особено интересен, а и е по-скоро наблюдател на основното описвано от Кларк, отколкото участник в него.
Силен социален елемент, който може би е отнел мястото на основния сюжет, който е поо-скоро вторичен елемент на произведенето.В заключение - добра фантастика, но нищо особено...
This is a fun 1950s sci-fi book in the literal sense of the term.
The details of moon life, space travel, and communication were what kept me engaged most.
Pretty impressive since this was written at the very dawn of the space age.
Much of the tech (and sexism) is of course horribly dated, but that doesn't get in the way of pages pretty much jam-packed with descriptions of scientific ideas - AKA the good stuff.
Recommended if you like to contemplate life on other worlds, or enjoy a quick view of a still-compelling future through the lens of the past.
