https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18869975-the-parasites
Maria and Niall and Celia (in that birth order) have always been inseparable since they were children and traveled around with their parents in a bohemian style from theater to hotel all around the world.
Niall was a world famous popular song writer and Celia did gorgeous drawings, but loved helping people more than her art, so she truly wasn't parasitic, unless the author is saying that some people are cloying in their need to take care of others?This is very sad, but there is also humor in the book, in this section duMaurier is describing Niall's driving:Always an indifferent driver .
it differs from other du maurier works in that there isn't anything gothic or spooky about it.
it is told mostly in flashback: the three siblings are called parasites by maria's husband, and they are left to wonder why.
there was a lot of really wonderful observation about how the world works, and what one can live with if one has to.
i think it's likely i'll read it again soon because it doesn't want to leave me alone, and when i do i'll revisit this review.***re-read prompted by the completist's club and jessica treat's thread there: http://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/1...yeah, this book is seriously kick ass.
This was a story about three very different siblings-- Maria, Niall, and Celia-- and how one word from Maria's husband made them rehash their pasts.
Parasite-- affect their hosts by feeding upon their living tissues or cells, and the intensity of the effect upon the hosts ranges from the slightest local injury to complete destruction -- The Encyclopedia Britannica & part of intro to bookThe story takes the reader to the earliest memories of their childhood together and what shaped them into these adults.
Pappy and Mama had a huge significance in shaping them.
The narrator at times threw me off bc I didn't know who was telling the story but I understood it by the end...
THE PARASITES...ist kein ganz einfach zu lesender Roman, inhaltlich nicht, und auch formell durchaus gewagt.Die Geschwister Maria, Niall und Celia Delany werden eines Nachmittags von Marias Ehemann als Parasiten beschimpft.
Vieles an dieser Künstlerfamilie wirkt komisch und skurril, eine sehr exzentrische Familie, mit der man nachsichtig ist, denn schließlich waren schon die Eltern große Künstler, und ihre drei Kinder sind ebenfalls begabt.
Der Roman entzieht sich durch Vielschichtigkeit einfachen Deutungsmustern und ich vermute, dass Daphne du Maurier sich hier Fragen ihres eigenen Lebens gestellt hat.Ist THE PARASITES ein großer, ein moderner Roman?
Was it all illusion?The Delaney siblings, nearing 40, are startled tohear the husband of one call them "parasites." Hisnasty liner isn't true.
The youngest Delaney, Celia, has spenther life doing for family.
She took to musical star Gertrude Lawrence.In 49, afer writing best-sell historicals, DdM produced this contemporary social comedy, which reveals her marriage and life.
"It's rather terrible," mulls Niall, "like a priest for whom one has great respect suddenly taking off his trousers in church."Maria's husby resents the easily gifted Delaneys.
The easily gifted DdM skillfully creates mood & atmosphere.
Richly imagined, original in its execution, this is a novel as much about art, the life of artists, commercial success versus following one's voice/vision, as it is about family, its demands, deep bonds, and pleasures.The novel opens as the three grown children of two successful artists--a dancer and singer--who are themselves artists: Niall, a composer, Maria, an actress and Celia, talented at drawing (though she does not devote herself as the other two do)--are called parasites by Charles, Maria's husband.
And between Maria and Niall, siblings by upbringing but not by blood, there is a deep--erotic, sympathetic--bond.I'll be reading more of Du Maurier's lesser known novels soon, hers is a singular talent.
Dieser sagenhafte Egoismus ist aber nicht aus einer absichtlichen Bösartigkeit geboren, sondern ist von massiv gedankenlosem Charakter, weil sowohl Eltern und Kinder von Anfang an ob ihres Talents den Applaus und die Ovationen des Publikums gewohnt sind, auch wenn sie nur privat agieren und deshalb meinen, sie könnten sich alles herausnehmen.
Und Niall der Zyniker, der eine viel zu enge fast schon krankhafte Beziehung zu seiner Stiefschwester hat und dem Talent und Geld immer in den Schoß fällt, das er aber nie zu nutzen weiß.Das Ende von Niall war jetzt das einzige, das mir nicht so schlüssig vorkam, es passte auch nicht ganz so für seinen zynischen Charakter, dass er sich so duldsam in sein Schicksal ergibt.
اصلا انتظار نداشتم اینجوری تموم بشه! اصلا!و خب تو شوکم الان...از خط اول تا آخر با سه شخصیت ماریا، نیال و سیلیا خو گرفته بودم و واقعا انتظار چنین پایانی رو نداشتم. احساس کردم همه چیز درونم خالی شد :|خود داستان جالب بود. از حال شروع میشه و از یه جایی به بعد میره تو گذشته و دوران بچگی این سه شخصیت و بعد دوباره به حال میومد و ...واقعا جالب بود و دوست داشتمتنها چیزی که اذیتم کرد ترجمه بودکتابی و گفتاری با هم قاتی بود -_- اگه شما هم این نسخه قدیمی رو بخونید متوجه میشید :دی
Early on while I was reading Daphne du Maurier's The Parasites, I knew that this fictional novel had something of Daphne, herself in it, how much we have no idea but there are many things that point to her family and her life.
As I read this I wonder how much of Daphne was in each sibling and that is one thing that makes this book a gem to me.
Where Daphne begins and ends is on my mind.****If you want to go into this book totally blind, do not read further.
Let us start with Charles' comment in calling the siblings this in the beginning of the story." 'Nothing can change you.
I actually liked this one quite a bit more than Rebecca and the only thing keeping it from being five stars was that I kept getting distracted by the weird choice for the book's narrator.
(view spoiler)[After only a short while, Maria comes to terms with her divorce, heads back onstage, and prompty moves onto the next chapter of her life, while Niall sets off in his sailboat for France, knowing that he probably won't make it and as the water starts seeping in he simply let's it all go.
My, my, another highly ambiguous ending from Dame Du Maurier and I'm still scratching my head wondering what to make of it.
One day Maria's husband accuses the three of being parasites who have spent their lives feeding off of others and thus begins a series of flashback on the lives of the children and their famous parents as they try to ascertain which one of them is the parasite Charles refers to - or is it all of them?
Maria can be anyone she wants to be and is she truly the woman her husband thought he married?
I am really beginning to become a du Maurier fan.
I find that her books are very easy to read, while still well written.
There was nothing "spooky" about this story, as most of her other novels seem to have that common theme.
The story revolves around three siblings who "feed off of each other" in a negative way throughout their lives.
The story and the interaction between the characters really had me engrossed from the beginning.
It might have been a five-star read for me, had the ending been better.
I felt like for such a good read, the ending was very weak.
Loved. This. Book. Some of the best character development I’ve ever read. This book should be a study in writing complex characters. I’m adding it to my favorites list. You should read it!
Despite not really having a clue what this novel was about, it really cemented my belief that sometimes reading a novel by a favourite author can be a really wonderful experience, and that is certainly true of my reading of this novel.'The Parasites' begins with the Delaney siblings; Maria, Niall and Celia, being in Maria's marital home with her husband Charles.
When he suddenly pronounces the three of them to be 'parasites', it triggers an afternoon of remembrance for the three siblings, each putting forward their own individual perspective on the events of their past as being the children of two incredibly famous performers.
The story of the Delaneys combined with her prose kept me really, truly gripped to the book.
The superficially charming, high maintenance Pappy, given to ringing declarations such as "I pack for all eternity," is her father Gerald to the life.Simply put, it's the story of three 'siblings' (family is a movable margin here) Maria, Niall and Celia.
Simmering throughout is the unnervingly deep, childish love between Maria and Niall - a love of snatched hours in hotel rooms, the sort you have when two people are too alike and too divorced from reality for comfort.The book renders the artistic life perfectly, plus - perhaps why contemporary readers didn't know how to receive it - it satirises the shallow world of bohemian celebrity mercilessly.
It's not like one of those endings where it's not what you want, so you're disappointed - no, it just kind of trails off.
I suppose du Maurier wants the reader to draw her own conclusions, and I always hate endings like that.I loved how suggestive du Maurier could be without crossing the boundary into smut.
I absolutely loved how Maria did not really want to be a mother, found no satisfaction from it, and was shocked when her husband was surprised that she wanted to go back to work after having her first baby.
I have a hard time rating this book.
It's not so much of a novel as a character study.
In fact, I think most of these chapters could stand on their own as little character study short stories.
The slow pace, relationships focus, and tiny movements that represented or eventually developed into something large reminded me a bit of Edith Wharton.The thing is, The Parasites is about people who are just so awful and self-absorbed that I couldn't stand spending time with them, so it makes me want to give the book a low rating.
"Pappy" is so selfish that it never even occurs to him that he has destroyed his youngest daughter's life by insisting she remain his personal nursemaid.
Niall is a whiny, neurotic life-long juvenile delinquent.
Celia, the least objectionable of the lot, plays the role of half-hearted peacemaker and feckless victim.
All of which makes them annoying when I suppose du Maurier intended for them to be colorful, which they are not.
I managed to plod my way three quarters of the way though before I couldn't stomach the lot of them any more and simply gave up.
i liked the premise but the execution was kind of lacklustre. Like it had the element of ~things are dark but we are too posh and uptight and english to talk about it properly~ that Rebecca has but it was a lot less compelling? A little bit disappointing tbh
The use of first-person plural was so intensely confrontational in the opening chapter, because a) du Maurier was also using third-person singular at the same time, which I found grating and confusing, and b) there wasn't a strong sense of cohesion to the three characters who created that first-person plural.
Like, from the start, you could see that Celia was a kind of third wheel, that Maria and Niall were a pair within that trio, that their personalities were all so distinct that the first-person plural just felt WRONG.
Dopo aver letto Rebecca e La cugina Rachele, ho trovato I parassiti molto diverso: non c'è un'ambientazione gotica o una persona misteriosa che potrebbe o meno essere un'abile assassina.
I Delaney stanno trascorrendo una domenica piovosa in una magione di campagna.
Sono Celia, Maria e Niall, non proprio fratello e sorella: Maria è la figlia di una famosa attrice, che sposò un famoso cantante di teatro, il quale aveva già un figlio (Niall).
La magione di campagna appartiene al marito di Maria, Charles, un signorotto di campagna, che irrompe nel salotto giusto il tempo di innervosirsi alle chiaramente storiche dinamiche fra i tre e pronunciare la frase che dà la stura a tutto il romanzo:http://robertabookshelf.blogspot.it/2...
In this novel she writes of a theatrical setting that would have been familiar to her as a child and uses the device of triple unreliable narrating to elide the three aspects of the main characters into one.
The novel is full of references to acting both in the true theatrical sense and in the sense of role play and there are several references to J.M. Barrie and his oeuvre as well as a lost boy who has midnight feasts and is prone to dressing up in borrowed finery.
For this novel, I'd put du Maurier in the same box as Waugh and Fitzgerald.
But it wasn't enough to be in the same box as Shelley.Her writing was exquisite and the character building was magical.
Every time I wanted to stop reading this novel, one of the characters will burst into series of riveting monologue and open interesting philosophical exploration; on allusion of God, intricate relationships between a Mother and her son, between a Father and his daughter, between a brother and a sister, among others.
And all these explorations started from a simple statement; "You are a parasite".
I've rather shamefully never read any of Du Maurier's books aside from Rebecca so picked this up to rectify that!
I'm glad I did as I really enjoyed it.
It seems Du Maurier is very good at writing about spoilt upper classes and that is effectively what this book is about.
It takes place, in the most part, over the space of one day and the story unfolds in flashback.
Worth reading for that alone.The characters (and the ending) were very reminiscent of Rebecca!
All in all I'm looking forward to reading more by her.
Not one of Du Maurier's most famous novels, but one of her very best, maybe because, for once, it's not a gothic mystery. Du Maurier's style isn't extraordinarily inventive, but it's very solid, accurate, and she has a gift for telling compelling stories with great characters. This novel about a family of artists and the complex ties that bind them all has more depth than one could expect and is the kind of book you want to read by a fire on a winter night.
I wasn't sure at first. This is very much a character study rather than straight forward narrative but crickey, once you get absorbed into their world and lifestyle it's compelling stuff. And like all du Maurier, has a great ending that left me contemplative and satisfied.
A story about dissipation, inappropriate family ties, and the perversity of the rich and famous. Salacious, but also genuinely literary and unsettling. Loved it.
3.5 stars
Above all, the three young Delaneys are characters one accepts as authentic.One of the few books - if the only book - by du Maurier that is set at roughly the time it was written (it was published in 1949 and set in the 1930s and 1940s) and is a study purely of a trio of siblings.Pappy and Mama Delaney get married, each bringing a child to the marriage - Pappy (a famous singer) brings Maria who becomes a famous actress and Mama (a famous dancer) brings Niall, who becomes a famous composer of popular ditties.
Daphne du Maurier è chiaramente conosciuta e associata ad Alfred Hitchcock per "Rebecca, la prima moglie" e per "Gli Uccelli", ma in realtà è una scrittrice coi contro-fiocchi.
Giochi psicologici nella descrizone dei personaggi, ossessioni e ansie popolano tutte le persone che incontriamo in questo libro.
Libro ambientato in una Londra degli anni '50 tra artisti attori e palchi.
Accidentalmente questa mia copia dei 'Parassiti' regalatami a natale era una copia 'fallata', mancante di circa 30 pagine e il secondo giorno di lettura mi sono scoraggiata, mi sembrava impossibile poter andare avanti senza saper cos'era successo alla famiglia Delaney in quelle pagine, ma poi alla fine ho continuato a leggere e senza problemi sono arrivata alla fine scordandomi di averle saltate.
