https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/266034.Miracle_of_the_Rose
It is time of my own life I am giving them so I don't think I am asking too much here.Jean Genet is a liar.
Something about Jean Genet makes me think about if you were living your whole life like you were George Harrison and you had to go walk off to be by yourself somewhere all of the time.
You know, the Jean Genet kind like he thinks it's not good enough for anything else.
I still really think it's beautiful the way he could ask for that kiss on any dark stairwell in any prison.
The miasma of history readily befuddles me.
It leaves me stranded and confused.
In her words, I needed to get rid of those gay books and listen to Eminem.
I listened to the hip hop artist's first two albums a number of times.
I don't like hip hop, but i am from Detroit.
Most of all, I felt really sad for Mr. Mathers.
I felt myself unable to find purchase.
Genet's need to for acceptance in the "womb" of the institution and prison proved difficult to bear.
I quickly admit that it was relief to finish the book.
Šta to čitaš?- Gej seks u zatvoru, znaš kako je moćno!- ...Ok, to je istovremeno tačno i nepravedno, kao kad sam na to pitanje odgovarala sa "nešto o teniserima" a knjiga u pitanju bila Infinite Jest.
Ali baš mi je teško da pružim neki tako lakonski odgovor koji bi tačno objasnio zašto me Žene toliko fascinira još od prvog čitanja Kerela - pa tako je...
Nije ovo lektira za čitanje na kilo, ja sam eto (kao i prošli i pretprošli put sa tako nekim pauzicama od po pet-šest godina) planirala da pročitam tri Ženea u cugu, ali mi je i jedan ispao dovoljan.
This is erotic, dark, and superb magic realism.Genet is a master at putting two contrasting symbols together such as the beautiful tragic rose and prison chains.
Everything seems so far away and though there is so much hurt there, the children we once were are lost in those streets.Genet is the definition of Nostalgia, remembering pain.But that's all there is for him to remember and he elevates that pain to another plane, lighting with heartbreaking prose, dressing it in the finest garments, tending to delicately as one would care for a rose bush...
"In order to escape, what was required, in addition to help from the outside, which Haracamone had never had never been able to arrange for, because he was as dull in free life as he was dazzling in prison(allow me to say a word about his brilliance, I would like to compare hardened convicts to actors-and even to the characters they impersonate-who in order to reach the highest pitch, require the freedom provided by the stage and by it's fabulous lighting, or the situation, which is outside the physical world, of Racine's princes""We had just been married in the presence of family B....that night was the loveliest of my life...the faster we went the lighter grew the moment, the faster our hearts beat and our veins swelled with hydrogen.
248)On le voit ici, s’il s’agit bien d’une sorte d’imagination, la trame et le contenu de celle-ci finissent par lui échapper, et ce dont il va être question, pour Genet, ce ne sera pas de rêver le monde carcéral, de sublimer les histoires sordides de ses amitiés et de ses amours, mais de percevoir le merveilleux, le fantasmatique au sein de ce même monde et de ces mêmes histoires.
On notera qu’il reçoit la rose de la chaîne même d’Harcamone, le plus accablé de tous les détenus, celui à qui l’on va bientôt prendre la vie : c’est cet accablement même fait le fond de son caractère mythique et qui cause le fantasme continu qu’entretient Genet pour lui.
But I got through.And now I have read 94$ of THE MIRACLE OF THE ROSE (in an actual text; the percentage is a guess.) I was sailing along, and then today (half an hour ago) I realized: this is one of the greatest books I've ever read, and if I don't put it down, at least for the next few days, I am going to turn into Genet himself.
I don't know how the can opener works!" This book made me briefly forget that I am an aging simpleton and turned me into a doomed Genet angel -- and I had to step back.
Genet seems really trendy, but regardless, this is a pretty impressive book. Confessional without being whiny, fabulist without being unbelievable, and nonlinear without being unstructured, Genet turns the brutalities of prison prostitution and gang violence into something beautiful and poignant. While I find myself often irked at that very French tendency to worship rogue figures, I still find this rogue so fucking vulnerable that I can't help but be sucked in.
It is a personal memoir by a writer who was on one level an incorrigible thief and who had been in incarcerated in both a boys’ reform school (Mettray) and later a prison for adults (Fontevrault); on the other level, he was a brilliant poet who tended to describe his life and his prison surroundings in metaphoric terms.
The prison guards and officials were seen merely a part of the larger prison environment of rules and regulations that all prisoners had to conform to; but what really mattered to Genet was the society of the young prisoners themselves.The author’s primary fascination is with two of his fellow prisoners at Mettray: Bulkaen and Harcamone.
I can't help but be amused by the Goodreads blurb that labels this book "nightmarish," a description both ignorant & idiotic.
The author's insights & observations are as fascinating & intense as his style, which moves back & forth in time confidently, never becoming disjointed or confusing, but rather flowing along seamlessly at its own pace & following its own whims & trains of thought & memory.
Dizzying, dazzling, disturbing, & like nothing else.
This is Genet's song about the vicissitudes of prison life.
The mystical language enshrouds an otherwise straightforward, linear narrative.
Every prison movie I've watched comes to the surface of my imagination.
The inside voice of Genet articulates the scenes I have viewed henceforth superficially.
Nautical language and metaphor is almost as prevalent as religious symbolism.
This text forces us to examine Western ethical religious structure.
Prisoners inside monastic enclosures: Martin of Tours and the desert fathers come to mind.
Genet, like many Christian monastics, is consumed by his own song and the ringing in his ears.
Perhaps a dangerous text for teenagers.
The criminal turned literary savior (?) Jean Genet writes in a prose style that is both highly lyrical and highly lurid about his life in prison and childhood in a penal colony.
The disjunct, plotless, self-contradictory narrative bears witness (without any irony whatsoever) to an extreme moral-aesthetic worldview that turns our notions of good and evil upside-down.As I said, I'm not sure whether I like this book, but I think it is important to read and access because his dark sensibility is just simply too real and too pertinent--and perhaps most dangerously, too beautiful--for us not to know."I am the sentinel at the gate of the sleep of others, whose master I am.
Another one who doesn't know how to rate this book. Can't say I enjoyed it, but found his writing fascinating
Not my cup of my tea at all. In fact, I mostly loathed it. Still, I appreciated it for challenging me and presenting me with subject matter and a moral code so distant from my bourgeois reality.
L'abjecció feta bellesa.
Genet changed my view of what was possible in terms of language and construction in a novel - even more than Robbe-Grille.
It's simply breath-taking in scope in terms of flexibility of structure, poetic license, absolute reality to Genet is the limitless playground of his imagination.
His reality is so difficult to negotiate at times I became dizzy reading.
One of my top five books of all time, despite the show stopping observation he makes within: "women are born whores".
For so many centuries this has been the status allocated to most women.
J'ai été très séduite par les quelque 50 premières pages de ce récit, qui font un portrait hautement poétisé de la prison et de ses occupants.
Le contraste m'a rappelé immédiatement Baudelaire (parallèle d'autant plus facile à faire que les fleurs reviennent sans cesse dans la prose de Genet).
C'est un récit méditatif et non-linéaire, extrêmement répétitif, et sa singularité a (pour moi) perdu son attrait après quelques pages.
À noter que j'ai lu et beaucoup apprécié Notre-Dame-des-Fleurs auparavant, qui m'avait paru plus fulgurant et, bien qu'il s'agisse aussi d'un récit largement méditatif (mais plus masturbatoire), je l'ai trouvé plus achevé et plus porté vers l'action que Miracle.
Genet writes beautifully, poetically, even tenderly about disgusting things most people would rather not think about going on in the world, and I like that.
Genet writes beautifully​, poetically, even tenderly about disgusting things most people would rather not think about going on in the world, and I like that.
Strange, in a mystical kind of way...
That's not to say there is nothing here for non-Richey fans, but my fandom made me approach from a different perspective and so see things in another way and pick up on other things that might mean nothing to a more neutral reader.
You can say similarly of any two people approaching the same book, I suppose, but what I mean is that the perspective was not my own and coloured every part of my reading like another narrative running alongside.
For that, this book was captivating, but on its own merit - which is what I am trying to rate it on - it was not.
"No tiene nada de extrañar que la vida humana más mísera se escriba con palabras demasiado bellas.
La magnificencia de este relato mío nace con toda naturalidad (debido a mi pudor también y a la verguenza que me da haber sido tan desdichado) de los momentos más lamentables de mi existencia"Milagro de la Rosa es un libro difícil, se presenta como un bloque concreto, pero nunca impenetrable, en donde se mezclan las memorias fantásticas y las experiencias de Genet en el reformatorio juvenil de Mettray y en el penal de Fontevrault.
No es mi libro favorito de Genet, pero si uno que recomiendo.
I realized after reading-- beauty & humanity can be found anywhere.
The Jean Genie once again furnishes our hearts and minds with his thuggishly whimsical passages and seminal flowers. A cast iron sensitivity which is candid, shocking and thoroughly surprising. Roll up, roll up, at the gates of Fontevrault prison and marvel at the flights of fantasy confinement can proffer, culminating in the voyage of a judge, a lawyer, a chaplain and an executioner through the living torso of the condemned Harcamone, dream lover and muse. This is a must for all those who believe sequins can and should be tuff
Took me a while to get through Miracle of the Rose, not that it isn’t brilliant (it really is), but rather because its poetic density, combined with a resolutely non-linear narrative, means this story takes a fair bit of unpacking. It’s a memoir of Genet’s romantic escapades in Mettray and Fontevrault prisons with all of their rituals, codes and ceremonies among the inmates. One of their number is the child murderer Harcamone, who’s condemned to death and becomes the subject of this novel’s more rococo prose. Within these pages crime is beauty, and ugliness is beauty at rest.
Probably my least favorite of the Genet's novels. Although this may have had to do with the dated translation of slang, I found the trajectory of the plot to be a little unsatisfying. This novel mingles the exaltation and abjection in which the narrator revels of the men of Founterevault prison and the boys of the juvenile correctional colony, Mettray. May have been the inspiration for one of three episodes in Todd Haynes' film Poison.
Can't seem to find the edition I read here (it's probably the Grove Press one). Always confuse this book with the other flower one by Genet ... is there a difference? Start reading one and then pick up the other -- can you tell them apart. The names I guess. Our ladies of the flower. Always blossoming into the sweetest depravity.
Another Genet that is dark and disturbing. It revolves around a prison and all the inmates and their interreactions.I also have read several of Genets plays. All of his work is very disturbing and dark.It is very bothering but yet I continue still to be drawn to his work. I am not sure what this says about me.
This and the other three novels Genet wrote early in his career are unlike anything else in literature. Don't know if one can even call them novels: rituals, perhaps. And you have to read them as a kind of adversary to get anything from them.
I was actually looking for a copy of Genet's The Thief's Journal in a used bookstore when I found this book. I wasn't convinced I should buy it until I read the note someone had written on the inside of the cover: "Al: I hope you find it an interesting descent. Harry."
Poeticised incarceration. *loved*
