https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12499290-the-blinding-knife
Oops, I finished this last week but forgot to update! It was amazing.
By now the characters and magic system are already established and Brent Weeks's writing clearly improved as he progressed a LOT of plot since the first page til the end of the book.
Kip's action sequences and development throughout the series is actually one of my main interest in the series as I have always loved watching any character's coming of age tales in any fantasy story.
Seriously speaking though, her POV's are so boring and useless compared to all other main characters, I couldn't care less about whatever her dumb thoughts are going on throughout the book.
In many ways Brent Weeks’ The Blinding Knife is an exceptional sequel, transcending the former.
The very world Weeks has created is enticing and is perhaps why this is such a strong story.
Colour has a universal attractiveness, and a world where the ability to split light into colours and shape objects from it, is uniquely appealing.
Several times.
And each time it feels good.
The twists, shocks and heart wrenching blows keep coming and by the end you will be begging for more.
The next in the series simply cannot come soon enough.
I have to go straight into the next one to find out what happens to him.Apart from Gavin there are lots of good things in this book.
The development of the character of Kip was probably the most important aspect of this book and it is obvious that he has great things in his future, once he accepts that he is not stupid.
His different voices for each character all work beautifully.I am going straight into book 3 even though I know there is still no sign of book 4 being published.
We all have limitations, and we all see our own needs first. This turned out better than I expected, I was dreading Liv’s POV, it was one of the reasons why it took me this long to read this, but it wasn’t as bad as I thought. This book is slower than the first, not much happened in the whole book but it was still an enjoyable read. The whole book took place in just a few months. We have fewer revelations here, lots of battle scenes, politics, friendship, romance etc. The book is so diverse, th
The writing is amazing, third person multiple POV, good dose of both internal monologue and dialogue, glad they didn’t overshadow each other.CharactersI still can’t decide who I love more between Kip and Gavin, I like them for different reasons.Gavin Guile is one of the MC, he is not your regular protagonist, he has lots of skeletons in the closet.
I accidentally deleted this review. I will write it again in the near future, but until then, long story short, it was the "worse" installment of the series, and yet, it was still awesome. It was the least awesome. Does that make sense?You can find more of my reviews over at http://BookNest.eu/
This was an expansive story with lots of different plot arc intertwining and some cool world-building in the best tradition of epic fantasy.
It's Something weird like that and I can't be arsed checking) was a cool character and her sections added an interesting dimension to the book (with cool spy stuff and a new dimension to the world's magic system), Liv's parts provided a really unique and well-executed insight into the rise of the main protagonist of the series, although Liv herself was a dumbass.
While Kip could be annoying at times (that whining tho) he was a very unique fantasy protagonist who had a beautifully handled coming-of-age arc.
It is the second in the series, so it does have some more set-up and transitional passages, but we got to know more about those who have surrendered to their colors, about how terrifyingly insane the Color Prince is, and how much of a curse the blessing of drafting magic could be even for the best of people...Gavin is loosing the Colors, which is the sign that a Prism is dying and the magic of the colors he is loosing has started acting out of control all over the world.
excellent
Ho-LY SHIT!
I expected some of the things at the end, but a whole lot of stuff happened in the last four chapters or so, so like the last 20 pages, and I'm not okay.
I don't have the next book, but I need it NOW!
Usually, the second book isn't just as good.
It's better.
Also, I've been mostly listening to the audiobooks for this series just because of time constraints, and I love the narrator.
I need to get the next book right now.
I don't know what to expect.
I'm still in shock about some of the things.
It has it all as during the first one - only maybe it was even a it better because I already know the characters!The excitement following the end of the book is really overwhelming and I actually ended up hoping for the best for each of the characters I love!
Yet this is a great book, not only for the characters, not only for the writing, not only for the pace but especially because of the magic system, in my opinion.
It is just an amazing read - the writing is good and the pace is just the right one at all times!
The largest is Kip's, the second largest is Gavin's, and the third is a significantly smaller one featuring the character Liv. Kip's Story (4.5 Star)I really enjoyed this part and I think it easily makes the book worth reading by itself.
Though toward the end the focus shifts away from him in favor of Gavin's thread to the degree that it left me feeling somewhat unsatisfied.Gavin's Story (2 Star)This was very much like Gavin's thread in the Black Prism.
However, I feel like that rating is deceptive because the direction this book takes regarding Kip's character, as well as the build-up of plot and better supporting characters around him, has me eager to read the next book.
awesome stuff so far about 100 pages in - had to reread Black prism and greatly enjoyed it again on 
Kung-Fu Panda With GoreThere are five reasons for which I would have ranked the novel lower than it deserves, were I a member of the despicable tribe of reviewers who allow personal biases - and even the extent to which they approve or not of the character’s behavior – to distort appreciation of mastery and technique. But, since when Zarathustra sprach, he sprach about me – I am immune to those petty un-Vulcan emotions.Reasons I would have hated the book were I not Homo Superior:1. I don’t dig p
I don’t dig plots about wizard kids in wizard schools with wizard bullies, friends, and love interests.
3.	I don’t dig plot twists based on everyone being everyone else’s long lost son/daughter/uncle/lawyer/butler/grandfather4.
I don’t dig books where all important adult male characters are Magnificent Bastards™.5.
I don’t dig plot rhythms which mirror those of a TV serial.
There was no need to feel shame here.]…with its Mensonite overtones of having to torture and kill a gazillion of people so that Helter Skelter and true freedom will finally arrive.
3.5⭐Right, so, a few unpopular opinions ahead so let’s get to it. The biggest of which being that there was a little TOO MUCH of Kip and TOO LITTLE of Gavin and Karris for my liking. I understand why that was and Kip’s part in this series (at least I think I do) but doesn’t mean I liked it. For the most part, I couldn’t stand him. Yes, he goes through some good character development and comes out of his ‘shadow’ (in a way) and all that jaz. And there were times that I found myself rooting for hi
The biggest of which being that there was a little TOO MUCH of Kip and TOO LITTLE of Gavin and Karris for my liking.
I understand why that was and Kip’s part in this series (at least I think I do) but doesn’t mean I liked it.
Yes, he goes through some good character development and comes out of his ‘shadow’ (in a way) and all that jaz.
Nothing compares to the disdain I felt for Liv. Idiot, know-it-all Liv. I hated her right from the beginning in book one and Blinding Knife only made me...
All in all, I did love the book, though it way seem otherwise.
We see a lot more of the political players and manoeuvres in this book than we got hints at in the first and Kip (the main character) is right in the centre of everything.
Certainly another character whom I was watching and interested in!Gavin Guile - is the Prism for the Chromeria and he's a wonderful character with a lot of the plot in this book focussing on him also.
Finally the release date is coming up soon.
I really love the new book cover, the colours are amazing and that is great considering how colour is sooo important when it comes to this series.Yes!!!
I finally have this book after waiting a year.
I am about half way done it and I love it!
I finally finished this book!
This is an amazing fantasy novel and it is one of Brent Week's best novel yet!
This is one of the best fantasy books I have ever read and I recommend this book for all fantasy lovers this book will not disapoint!
And a cliffhanger...
I'm hard pressed to say why I like this book so much better than The Black Prism.
It contains all the same elements that drove me nuts in the first book: Cartoonish villains, juvenile wish fulfillment, and stupid and obnoxious characters; albeit in lesser quantities.I think it's a combination of things.
I think this book would be a lot better with a different protagonist.
At least he's less of a cartoon character than some of the other antagonists.I think that this series is going to be relegated to "guilty pleasure".
KOCHAM JĄ I JEDNOCZEŚNIE NIENAWIDZĘ Z CAŁEGO SERCA.• Ta część jest o wiele bardziej polityczna niż poprzednia.
Ten gościu jest geniuszem zła: potrafi przewidywać ludzkie zachowania i czerpać z zaistniałych przez to sytuacji jak najwięcej.• Bohaterowie nie mają łatwego życia.
Mają wszystko oprócz tego: Weeks przerzuca ich przez takie bagno i tak wiele psuje w ich świecie, że to jest po prostu niemożliwe.
Jeśli dzieje się coś dobrego, to wiedzcie, że za chwilę wszystko bardzo mocno się spieprzy.• Kocham całym sercem Żelazną Pięść, mój ulubiony bohater w tej serii.
3.5 starsAlthough I liked the continuation of the story this book didnt lure me in as much as The Black Prism.I like the first part of the book ( skimmed through the card games ugh ) and the second part read rather bland.
Janus Borig added a mystery that introduced this eerie vibe.The locked up Gavin plot was getting tense and the sudden twist blew me away and left me missing something.....I wasnt really feeling the Color Prince plot along with Liv.
-whispers- I found it boring <_<The ending had a strong cliffhanger, I was sooo glad for that I needed it to still feel enthousiastic for the next part, I reallly want to finish this series.
Kip también es un poco Harry Potter, con tremendo poder en bruto, pero cero educación al respecto y a quien se le restringe saber más y hasta se le aisla de sus compañeros , y que vemos que es fácil de manipular, mientras quiere ser querido e impresionar a su padre.Cruxer , Teia y Kip me recuerdan a otros personajes...
It reminds me a little of The Deck of Dragons in Steven Erikson’s Malazan series –the two are used totally differently but the similarity is in that both are magical and can be read to discover truth.The story picks up right where we left off with the fall of Garristan where the Colour Prince has struck his first blow to wrest power from The Seven Satrapies.
And a Prism who can’t see the full spectrum can’t balance the light in the world.
They start slowly in book one and build up all the way through the series.
Also now we have a lot of the learning curve of worldbuilding and magic system behind us, it felt like the plot picked up pace a lot!
While I am usually not one to say "If you liked this, than you'll love that!" because every author and series is different, the tone of the stories felt really alike similar to me.
Not the plot, but just the way I felt while reading.
Enjoyed it, but did think it a bit slow at times. Kip is certainly growing on me and I hate Liv with a passion right now.Will start the next book immediately!
A super fun BB&B reread with Choko & Sarah that just reminded me that this one deserves all the coloured stars!
Like many epic fantasies it's told from multiple view points and I found one of them more of interest so far as "story" goes than the others.
The book itself plot wise is slightly a mixed bag with a couple of plot points tied up but others simply expanded on.
On the negative there are a couple of "eye roll moments where some clunky old chestnuts of plot devices are used that were old when Noah was telling stories on the Ark.
I read Mr. Week's The Night Angel Trilogy and liked it immensely.
I though this had 750 pages.
I was prepared for 750 pages.
WHAT IS THAT CLIFFHANGER DOING HERE.
I didn't think the book would end at that, and then I turn the page and see Acknowledgement...
ahhhhWell.
I have this 5 stars because the characters are fucking amazing and half of them has made it to my "favorite characters of all time list".
Plus the writing is on point.
And the plot is fast paced and you never know what's about to happen.
The only think that bothers me with these books are some of the big battle scenes.
For a book fueled by politics and religion it really packs a punch.THE BLINDING KNIFE veers directly into urban fantasy while not losing any of its high fantasy pizazz.
We follow the king of smart asses, Kip Guile as he struggles to find his place in a family and the Black Guard.
Through this plot line we get to know Kip's hateful grandfather Andross Guile better which greatly improves the story.
And Gavin has to do so quickly because he is living on borrowed time...THE BLINDING KNIFE is a great book and is a model of what non-Sanderson modern fantasy should be.HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.
I had similar issues with The Blinding Knife as I did with the first novel.
At one point, during the climax of the book, there is a sentence to the effect of "fat kids really know about momentum" that was totally off putting.This brings me back to the author's obsession of the main character, Kip, being fat and slow.
I am now 1200 or so pages deep in this series and am still being force fed variations of showing how lazy and fat Kip is.
Phew.But, the storyline has promise and since I already have the 3rd book I will press on!
