https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6693.Fantastic_Mr_Fox
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, GREG!!! YOU ARE OLD!!!!greg's birthday is today, so i am floating this now to remind you that you still have time to shower him with presents!it is greg's birthday!!! and as a treat for him, i am going to create a book review in which i use plenty of pictures of foxes!!! they are his favorite!!first, a sleepy fox:a grouchy fox:a defiant fox:a hide-y fox:fox and friends:bad fox:chilly fox:charming fox:suspicious fox:mischievous fox:meditating fox:super-orange fox:fox in a tube:smiling fox:stretchy fox:sharp-nailed fox:log-fox:hypnotic killer foxes:and just to keep this relevant:fantastic mr fox.HAPPY BIRTHDAY, GREG!!!come to my blog!
But then the farmers dig *faster.*Fox's clever solution?
They should dig away faster.Eventually they try to starve Mr. Fox and his family out of the hole.
Fox's clever solution?
Fox's clever solution?
(Spoiler alert.) I like my books to have some cleverness in them.
If you have a book where the main character is a Fox, and people are going to praise him for being fantastic, he better...
If your clever solution to *every* problem is "Dig more" you're kinda just phoning it in.
Nothing horrifying like in Esio Trot, but why read a meh book with mild sexism to your kids?
This book encourages stealing, underage drinking, and living in an underground bunker so you never have to face sunlight again. Recommended!
These are talking animals -  this is murder.Instead of trying to negotiate (or even work for a living), the Fox family makes a run for it and they end up endangering all the animal families that live in the hill, the Badgers, the Weasels, the Moles, the Rabbits, etc.
They end up making permanent tunnels to and from the farmer's stores...and creating a completely underground town so they can always live and mooch off the farmers.
Now, in a world where all the animals can talk, think and reason, how can they justify feeding carrots to the Rabbit family while 
Aren't rabbits and moles prey for foxes?
Fantastic Mr. Fox is an amazing book for children.
Even I, myself, loved Mr. Fox.
He is soo clever and determined.Mr. Fox steels food from three farms own by nasty owners.
He steels to keep his family alive.
But one day the owners finally decide to kill him once and for all.
But Mr. Fox is too clever for them.
His optimism is amazing.
I love optimistic characters.
I didn't wanna read it.
Had to read it for my younger cousin's school work.
Now I am happy that I read it.
I highly recommend this book to everyone.
Especially children.August 4, 2017

They have a hard time catching him, they destroy the earth trying to get him out of his hole, they waste many man-hours by making their workers surround the woods with weapons and ultimately Mr. Fox with the help of other underground animals find another way into the farms and go about their stealing in peace while the farmers sit endlessly waiting to kill the fox and any other animals that pop up from the ground.
Basically Robin Hood is that message too, although this seems a little bit more anarchic in it's presentation, maybe it's the drawings, or all the fun the fox has in stealing that makes it seem like a revolution going on that you can dance to.
This short book was a laugh riot. Especially with the way Dahl described the human characters.
This is such a cute little book! A quick, funny and very enjoyable read. Highly recommend it if you want to dive back into your childhood for an hour or so. Roald Dahl is famous for a reason!
From a young age on I always adored stories about forest animals (which is why it's even more incomprehensible and outrageous that I have missed out on such a classic until now)!The book is very thin but the story inside is full of wit, fun and excitement!Roald Dahl tells the story of Mr. Fox, his wife and children and their tranquil life.
His characterization is entirely amiable (which is not always the case with stories about foxes).As with the other volumes, this one also features lots and lots of illustrations by Quentin Blake and I think they will never lose their magic.So if the three farmers haven't died, they are still waiting!
"Fantastični gospodin Lisac" je možda najbolja početna tačka za upoznavanje dečjih čitalaca s Dalom: nema grozomornih detalja, nema mučnih nagoveštaja, a humor ipak samo pršti, i knjiga (pripovetka, u suštini) oblikovana je kao avion, svrsishodno i aerodinamično. I na kraju lisice nadmudre zle lovce (nije da smo iznenađeni).
Roald Dahl at his best - an oft overlooked story (at least until the film adaptation) this is lots of fun. A great story by Dahl with the usual wonderful accompanying illustrations by Quentin Blake.Not to be missed.
I am a huge Roald Dahl fan. I love foxes and I loved having a main character that is a fox. It is such a snappy and witty book. This is a great one and I think the movie was wonderful as well. Roald does well on screen. Of course the fox will win.
I was psyching myself out that in mere moments the door would open and I would die....OR as the plan was, I would freefall for 60 seconds prior to my parachute successfully opening, float over Lake Taupo, and safely land back on solid ground with everything intact—including my sanity.While still in that situation (mentally and physically), I was strapped to a crazy-blue-eyed-curly-haired-good-smelling-completely-attractive Kiwi who was on his “29th or so” jump of the day and the SOB had the audacity to read Fantastic Mr. Fox on my shoulder.
The door opened...and eight years later I finally read the little book that’s seared into memory, and it was, well, fantastic of course!
I read all of the Roald Dahl books when I was 14-15 and this is the only one I could never find.
There is a lot more in the movie than in the book.
I definitely saw Mr. Fox as George Clooney though.
This is not my favourite Roald Dahl book (I'll always pick Matilda or Danny the Champion of the World, I think.) But I quite enjoyed the illustrations and I can't WAIT until my nephew is old enough to appreciate these kinds of books.
or "don't think you can outsmart a fox"?
or probably "WHAT DOES THE FOX SAY".
Delightful! Though I do feel bad for the chickens, ducks and geese.
Now that I've read it, it's a little festive (gathering together with friends for a celebratory meal), but it's most likely because the film adaptation seems to always be on around Christmas – and now I cannot wait to watch it.
It's full of smart characters – I loved the adorable four Small Foxes and their courageous determination – and it's also the first Roald Dahl book I've read, I'd say, with an obvious underlying moral message.Mr. Fox looked at the four Small Foxes and he smiled.
I am still in the year of reading Roald Dahl.
My goal is to read every Roald Dahl book, that I can get my hands on in 2017.
I also have a book buddy who is doing it with me!This is not my favorite book by Roald Dahl..."Fantastic Mr. Fox is on the run!
Fat Boggis, squat Bunce, and skinny Bean have joined forces, and they have Mr. Fox and his family surrounded.
What they don’t know is that they’re not dealing with just any fox–Mr. Fox would never surrender.
But only the most fantastic plan ever can save him now."
“I understand what you're saying, and your comments are valuable, but I'm gonna ignore your advice.” ― Roald Dahl, Fantastic Mr. FoxThis short story reminded me of the The Three little pigs. The three little pigs here in the story are the farmers except that they are dumber, clumsier and stinkier. haha!
5/5 starsthis is probably my favorite roald dahl book, and if you haven't read it, i'd highly recommend it! it's funny, fast paced, and the descriptions of food will make your mouth water!such a classic.
Loved it, mostly because of the nostalgia but even with that it was still a really fun read.
Just needed a taste of childhood again :)
So adorable. I really need to read more childrens books they are so cute. I havent really read anything buy Roald Dahl before so I need to catch up now.
So adorable. I really need to read more childrens books they are so cute. I haven´t really read anything buy Roald Dahl before so I need to catch up now.
Like another review notes, so does Robin Hood.But what I thought was illustrated so vividly here is that the three nasty farmers become obsessed with killing Mr. Fox for stealing their poultry, losing all perspective and sense of proportion.
Starving and hounded and knowing that they're going to be gleefully shot and ripped to shreds if they get caught, the reader can't help but root for the poor little critters who just want to eat.I was reminded of a local in my town who shot a fox that killed one of his free range chickens.
Unless you just wanted an excuse to kill something.
Fantastic Mr Fox 🦊 can also named as Robinhood Mr Fox.This book is a quick and fun read.At the start, you may think that Mr Fox is selfish, mean and steals food. But, you are wrong because Mr Fox is in fact brave, kind and steals food not just for his family but for many other animals and their families.
While I was reading Fantastic Mr. Fox, I had in mind three colorful bubbles (yes, sometimes I like to tease my ideas):1. Roald Dahl is amazing. 2. Mr. Fox is indeed Fantastic!3. And this stupid yet hilarious song:   Seriously Chaymâa?! Well, as Roald Dahl said in this book : I understand what you're saying, and your comments are valuable, but I'm gonna ignore your advice.
The fox was a clever fellow, stealing chickens, geese and ducks.He made the three farmers bellow,And destroy his home with trucks.This is a short and silly story,That is funny and not gory.The farmers go overboard.So the fox raids their hoard,Sharing with neighbours, in a great feast.Now, really, who is the foul beast?
Indeed he's fantastic
There just aren't enough books for children that glorify stealing and drinking.
Read it in one day to my four year old. He was fascinated and wide eyed the entire time. Then, at dinner he called his juice "strong cider" and talked about how it made his mouth and belly burn :).
