https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58068.Birth_of_the_Firebringer
THIS IS THE BOOK I WAS BORN TO READ!
I loved every beautiful moment, word, image, and character.
This story brings the world of the unicorns to life.
Intelligent pans, aggressive gryphons, and renegade unicorns also surround the Vale where they live.
The main character Jan is a princeling unicorn, colt of Korr, the prince of the unicorns.
Jan has a big destiny and an even bigger heart.
In short, this book took my breath away.
All horse lovers, Guardian Herd fans, lovers of mythical creatures and fantasy novels should read this trilogy!
It was what led me to other authors, like McCaffrey, and my continued descent into UF and the entire paranormal genre.I still have the original mass market paperback that I bought from the school's book club.And yet...
I never even  knew there were sequels to it.I think one of the things I liked about Pierce's writing, and this book in particular, the most -- was the worldbuilding.
The way she took a nonhuman sentient species and gave them an entire society and culture, a structure of religious beliefs and even racial taboos...
If I'm entirely honest, I must lay the blame for the greatest influence on my writing right here.
I don’t remember how this book ended up in my hands but I do remember the condition it was in, missing cover with pages torn and corners bent.
I found a sleeve of plastic and gently wrapped it up, deciding the best place to store it was nestled in the stuffed animal net hanging above the top right-hand corner of my bed.
It captured and held my imagination like no other book I had read before it and whenever I look back to my childhood reads, it’s one of the first to push to the front of my mind.I still have the tattered, well-loved copy stored away and it is one of my dreams to get my hands on a pristine copy to place alongside it.
My Rating 5 stars Book Series Book 1 of the Firebringer series (3 books). My Thoughts I can't say much about this book because I read it so long ago. I'm giving it 5 stars because I loved it every time I read it. Conclusion Hard-core fantasy about unicorns. Not for everyone, but I loved it.
I thought this would read kinda childish based on the concept, but I was v pleasantly surprised by the use of language and some of the beautiful sentences. The plot was intriguing, the conflict exciting, and I am more than excited to read the rest of the series.
One of the best books I've read in a long time.It starts off slow.
Typical misfit prince who doesn't see things his father's way.
As the story progresses there is increasingly a sense that things aren't quite what they seem.
The mythology is rich, the storytelling is excellent, and the characters are real enough that you rage when they rage, or feel wonder when they feel wonder.Earlier this week I asked a friend why I subject myself to things that inevitably leave me feeling what my generation is calling 'triggered', his response was that I appreciate beautiful things, even when they hurt me.Nothing captures that sentiment as thoroughly as this book.
Wonderfully imaginative and vivid, this book was a fantastic fantasy story.
This book long predates such animal-based series as Warriors, and it far outshines them.
The first is the best and most interesting read, rife with a wonderful prophecy, very accurate animal depiction, and great fantasy elements.
It is set among a group of war unicorns, yet these unicorns are nothing like the white, virgin-seeking typical story we see.
There are no men in this series (although something like them are mentioned at one point) and the world is lovely.
Great, often overlooked fantasy book and one I often carry extra copies of so I can lend it to friends.
This is a moving and timeless book about growing up. Reading it is one of my fondest childhood memories. Whenever a thunderstorm is rising, I think of it.
I am definitely length-biased when it comes to books.
I prefer any book I read to be around three hundred pages...
She totally could have embellished the story and made a five hundred page book, just out of the first one.
We have a detailed history (one and a half pages as the prologue), a dramatic plot complete with battles and inner conflict for our character (and don't forget a budding romance), plot twists like crazy, and a total cliff hanger at the end.
I will also admit, that I read the prologue and then immediately ordered the whole trilogy from thriftbooks.
I KNOW I've read this book before. In fact I'm sure I've read the entire series. The title and plot synopsis was so familiar to me, but I didn't remember the storyline in any sort of detail. I must have read it when I was young.  Having said that, this book reads very maturely for YA - I find that it's written in a more classic style. So, I'm delighted to have rediscovered it. The trouble now, will be in obtaining the other 2 books in the series.
Yan is een jonge eenhoorn, de zoon van de eenhoornprins. Hij houdt er niet van om volgens de regels van de groep te leven, wat hem meer dan eens in moeilijkheden brengt. Maar uiteindelijk blijkt dat er voor Yan een grote taak weggelegd is. Samen met zijn vriend Dagg en de jonge vrouwelijke krijger Tek kan hij de troep voor een ramp behoeden.Een boek dat je niet kan wegleggen!
I'm abandoning this one - the cheese is just too great. There is definitely a place for cheese in my heart but I'm just not in the mood right now (#RobinHobbBookHangover2017). I wish I had known about this book when I was 10!
I wanted to like this series more than I did, because I like Pierce's Darkangel books and her short stories so much.
I think what I mostly didn't like was the main character, Jan the unicorn prince, who was all too often (particularly in the last book) incredibly dim, in a way that seemed to serve the plot (so that the big reveals could happen at the right time) more than the character.
Still, I love Pierce's writing and find her worldbuilding absorbing, so I'm not at all sorry I read these.
As a kid I bought this book for the cover - It had a unicorn, and I was horse crazy.
I dove in and fell in love, though I'm sure I missed all the subtext about how Jan's journey might perhaps relate to my own young teen-aged struggles.
None the less, I cherished this book, and years later read it again as an adult with new perspective.
I love it even more now.
This is the kind of book all parents, uncles, aunts, anyone who mentors kids should pass on to the young readers in their lives.
Lesson we could all stand to hear more often as teens or adults.
Though Meredith Ann Pierce has clearly thought through the rules under which her society of unicorns should operate, there is something about this book, the first in the Firebringer trilogy, that doesn't quite click. Readers who can slip easily into the blatant personification of the unicorn characters will likely enjoy this book, but as a reader I would probably have more enjoyed a novel that takes a further step away from writing about humans, and challenges the reader not only to empathize with non humans, but to empathize with non humans that actually think in a way different from humans.
Another childhood favorite I will never tire of rereading. Pierce has perfected high fantasy without resorting to swordplay -- or even humans in this case. Perfect for fans of The Last Unicorn, The Princess Bride, and The Neverending Story (all of which you MUST read in novel form, they're all extraordinary).
yes, this is a young adult book about UNICORNS...but it will always be one of my favorites as it was my very first taste of fantasy fiction, this book is the one that got me addicted to reading! And I only picked it up by accident when I was in 6th grade. (ok, so I think I might have been 21 when I stopped believing in unicorns, yes i am a dork, suck it!)
Wow. Just, wow. This book is breathtaking. The rich storytelling, fantastic world building, unforgettable characters, incredible deliverance and fascinating plot make readers unable to put this book down. You'll be flying through the pages and before you know it, you'll be finished, awed. 5 out of 5 stars, a favorite for years to come!
Gorgeous writing, epic storyline, and UNICORNS. Super awesome warrior unicorns with magic and visions and prophecies and ancient mortal enemies that they sing songs about and what I'm saying is that this book is awesome and you should read it. Because unicorns.
I spent a lot of time thinking about how the people who had been abusive to me would one day have to hear God giving them a Ru-esque reading of all the horrible things they'd said and done to me, while I sat at his right hand, nodding smugly.
So I clung to my religion with all my might...until about the time I read this book.Jan's journey is an escape from ingrained dogma.
Throughout the course of the book, Jan leaves his lil' unicorn hometown for the first time, and is confronted with events that contradict this tribe's mythology.
First thing I should mention is that this book is called "Birth of the FireBringer" but you don't even find out who the FireBringer IS until page 228/234.
Thirdly, the book is at least 30% of describing what color things are, and not even that is done clearly (example: pg.
151 - It's surface rosy crystalline, or green, or amethyst.) Fourthly, the unicorns don't even have magic in this book.
And unicorns are literally a magical creature.
Anyway, I'll stop ranting now but this book was really not worth my time.
Unicorns, as fantasy creatures, fascinate me, and this book is an enjoyable adventure in a world populated with dragons, unicorns, and pans (satyrs).
The fantasy elements are not unique, but it's nice to read a book that focuses solely on mythological animals, and it's so rare that this feels fresh.
My main problem with this novel is that the unicorns feel too much like intelligent horses and not enough like magical creature.
In "The Last Unicorn", unquestionably the best unicorn book, the myths and magic surrounding the unicorn are palpable.
However, it's enjoyable, and I'm glad I picked it up.
Not bad.
Fans of nonhuman characters will probably like it.
It's along the lines of the "Warriors" series by Erin Hunter, but maybe a bit better.
Not as good as "Tailchaser's Song" by Tad Williams.
Nowhere near the masterpiece of "Watership Down" but I don't think it's meant to be.
Obviously intended for young adults, a good dose of action, magic, interesting creatures, clear story progression, some bits predictable, other bits surprising.
Author could have a done a bit more fact-checking or research on equines, but not a really big deal.
I'll probably seek out the rest of the trilogy eventually.

This book wasn't really my thing (I read it for a book Battle, I needed this book for a criteria).
Maybe the book is too much high fantasy for me.
What I didn't like about the book is that it's from the perspective of the unicorns, but I don't feel like it stayed true to what a unicorn is and what it's abilities are.
There's bits where a unicorn gets help to reach the medics, but how do you drag a unicorn there when you're a unicorn?
It doesn't have arms to help him out.
I couldn't really get into the story.
Finally found it!Having read this when I was 11 it was a story that always stayed with me even though I had long forgotten the title. I finally found it and am pleasantly surprised to find it was the first installment in a trilogy. It was as magical as I remembered and I am excited to read the next books in the series after all these years!
I accidentally read this trilogy backwards. When I was young, probably in middle school, I read the third book and it enthralled me. I daydreamed about unicorns for months. Several years later I checked out the second book from the library. Then I forgot about it until recently and just found the first book at HPB. I'm delighted to see that the storytelling is as enthralling as I remember.
I was skeptical going into this book, and it took me the first hundred or so pages to realize that I was truly enjoying it! The language is beautiful and the characters, particularly Jan and Tek, are lovely. I liked the revelation of so many secrets at once at the end of the novel, and I look forward to seeing what the Firebringer does in the rest of the series!
By far the best book in the series, BotF has been my favorite book since I was, like, 10. I picked it back up 12 years later to read it again and loved it just as much. The writing is fabulous, and reading it again as an adult was like re-discovering a treasure hoard. The second book is great, but the third one sadly falls flat.
