https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45882.Borderlands_La_Frontera
Anzaldúa’s most famous work, a collection of essays and poetry is a refreshing and important book. I read this for my Chicana literature course and it is by far the touchstone of Chicana studies. Anzaldúa writes very personal but powerful essays on what it means to be Chicana and what it’s like living in a country in which she is seen as a second or third class citizen. Her poetry is political but highly readable and perfectly complements the essays in this collection. I highly recommend this work, even if you have no interest in Chicano studies, it’s required reading.
Oh well.
In the second chapter, Anzaldua navigates her position between a patriarchal culture and the white man’s violence.
At page 22, Anzaldua mentions ‘sisters’ who glorify colored cultures to “offset the extreme devaluation of it by white culture.” I personally struggle with navigating my position as an Arab woman who shares the same academic space with white culture.
Such criticism, in an American space, becomes material for war propaganda, a way to patronize Arab women and use them as victims/weapons.
In Borderlands, Anzaldua sets up the path with her first chapter detailing a history of violence practiced by the white man against her people.
Sometimes, literally: Anzaldúa intersperses Spanish and many dialectic variants thereof throughout the text, and while the back of my book says "English readers will understand in context," I didn't much of the time.
But the whole time the writing pulses with an urgency and a declaration to take it in as written-- the book doesn't ask readers to understand, it asks readers, particularly those whose identities root them in one or another side of any number of borders, to hear and listen and pay attention to their ignorance.
Here Anzaldúa writes in narrative, says what she means in language that communicates without leaving room for doubt.
specifically, i am looking at the borderland that anzaldua speaks of as a place of passing (racial, sexual, class) for individuals, and what it means to constantly exist in that space, without a homeland to move toward or away from.
anzalduas prose and poetry are both symbolic and dense; parts of the book are written in spanish, and my understanding of the language is embarrassingly bad.
her analysis of mestiza consciousness coupled with the invocation to feminism are rich, as is her attempt to explain the frustrations of speaking a language that also exists in the borderland, a mixture of spanish and english and other languages, and the ensuing condescension from others who speak so-called "pure" languages.
Woman does not feel safe when her own culture, and white culture, are critical of her; when the males of all races hunt her as prey.Institutionalized religion fears trafficking with the spirit world and stigmatizes it as witchcraft.
“If you want to be American, speak ‘American.’ If you don’t like it, go back to Mexico where you belong.”Ethnic identity is twin skin to linguistic identity – I am my language.
This book appeals to me on an anthropological level (it brought back a lot of memories of my cultural anthropology classes).
The author, however, goes above and beyond to explain (defend?) her culture while maintaining an accusatory tone towards European-American (white) culture.
This type of writing is neither unique nor unexpected, so the author's attitude doesn't bother or surprise me.
A great thing this book offers is an insider's view of a rich and beautiful culture.
This culture is not totally unknown to me since I have lived near the South Texas/Mexico borderland all my life, so I enjoyed the familiarity of that particular aspect of the book.
What Anzaldúa offers here, among other things, is a powerful weaving of psychoanalysis with a meditation of the radical heterogeneity of identities and experiences organized under the rubrics of indigenous, Chicana, and queer.
This is a text about a new way of life that involves accepted the repressed and rejected, and a cessation of the cycle of repression and rejection.
It is a text about living with contradiction, paradox, and ambiguity.
This step is a conscious rupture with all oppressive traditions of all cultures and religions.
She adopts new perspectives toward the darkskinned, women and queers.
She learns to transform the small "I" into the total Self.
For the mid-80s thinking and theory about the intersection of culture, race, and feminism--this book is radical. A bible to understanding what it means to live in a borderland... a fast read, engaging, but VERY thought provoking. the form mixes, Spanish/Chicanoism, poetry, prose, theory, academia, and the essay- Anzaldua continually disrupts you and the text, always evolving the question of identity.
Truly one of the most influential reads during my doctoral studies!
Usa todo para analizar su propia cultura, a la que llama "a border culture" (una cultura de la frontera) y a situarse a sí misma en ella, como mexicana, lesbiana, como chicana, como estadounidense.
Racially, culturally and linguistically somos huérfanos —we speak an orphan tongue.La cultura, la lengua y la identidad son una gran parte de lo que escribe y presenta Anzaldúa en este libro.
lo leí en inglés (desconozco su el libro está traducido), pero el libro entero está en spanglish: tiene expresiones mexicanas (norteñas en su mayoría) en todas y cada una de las páginas, recordándonos que, antes que cualquier otra cosa, Gloria es Chicana.
Cuál es la historia que debemos construir? Cómo construimos esa historia? Quién debe contarla? Qué idioma? Qué es el idioma? La tinta es el camino para deconstruir la cultura o construirla?La imagen de la mujer se traduce en un nuevo cuerpo que reclama un nuevo lugar.Which is the History that we should build? How do we build that History? Who should tell the History? Which language? What is language? Black ink as a way to deconstruct culture or build it? The image of women is translated into a new body that claim for a new place.
This book is one of the classics in feminist decolonial theory. It's a beautiful story about Anzaldua's life as a Chicana growing up near the US-Mexico border. I could relate to what she says about mixed races and borders and identity. But somehow I found it difficult to agree with her on culture. Blanket generalizations about culture being bad never sit well with me since we are never outside of culture, and so presumably good and bad both come from culture.
Wild, formidable, preoccupied with Kristevian semiotics. Gloria Anzaldua ambitiously discusses how la mestiza must straddle three cultures: American, Mexican, and Indigenous, and asserts that what is needed is a "tolerance for ambiguity" and an internalization of the mulitplicity of female selves. She describes this internalization as an internalization of the attributes of the Nahua Goddess, Coatlicue. A very sensual, politically and socially conscious book.
Exhausting. A lot of it resonated with me so much that I found myself rereading certain passages immediately, which frankly is more work than I usually put into my leisure reading. That's also probably why it took me 5 months to finish!
Importante reflexión sobre la identidad chicana, sobre las fronteras, feminismo, colonialismo... Todo plasmado en un texto híbrido donde me gustaría destacar la poesía de Anzaldúa, que es maravillosa.
A buck toothed kid who grows up in a mixed working class family with a Mexican dad she only sees on Mondays for most of her life falls in love with cyborgs and years later comes across this book at the tail end of a bereft and difficult two years where she's been too sad and overcome with anger at the world to find anything in it to ground herself.
In an anime, this would be the closing stillframe, and the word "hope" appears in a soft fade."I will not be shamed againNor will I shame myself."
This book is important for many people.
However, I am not one of those people.
As much as I want to wholeheartedly endorse Anzaldúa, I just can't.
There are some great ideas in this book--but they're all inextricably tied up with essentialist claims about gender, race, and ethnicity.
To read and use Anzaldúa, one has to take on her biological metaphysics and spirituality.
And I don't in anyway think it's linked up to identity, which I understand as socially constructed.So, while this is an interesting book, it's ultimately not that useful to me as a political theorist nor as a teacher.
HowOhHowOhHowOhHow did I make it this long without reading this book?
It would feel weird to say I love it, it's that close...
I always felt like chicana mestizas were talking about me, the greek-gringo mestiza...
it all sounds right...
but WHAT GENRE IS IT?
It doesn't read like your typical essay or memoir.
So what is this book?
Because we are writing a comps essay, first of all and second of all, because when I write stuff like this people ask me what I was "trying" to do.
What is Anzaldua "trying to do"?
This book was amazing.
I can't believe I barely discovered it last semester.
She is so brilliant!
I hate that I discovered her after she passed away.
I wish I would have had the chance to meet her.
There are so quotes in this book that I love.
She really captures what it is like to embrace all the pieces of yourself even though society is constantly telling you to choose.
She captures what its like when even people within your own ethnic group who claim they understand turn around and tell you that you are not enough for that culture.
I think I could read this book 10 more times and still learn more.
re-reading in 2016. hope to review soon.
El mero hecho de que Anzaldúa escriba en su propia lengua, el spanglish, hace que la presencia de los chicanos tenga más fuerza, pero, al mismo tiempo, en el proceso de escritura es inevitable que las ambivalencias vayan desapareciendo para dejar paso a una sola cosa contradictoria, aunque consistente:«Living in a state of psychic unrest, in a Borderland, is what makes poets write and artists create (…).
Such thoughtful, mystical prose and poetry as well as highly charged content on language, race and ethnicity to read.
Highly recommend chapter 6 for anyone who has ever written anything because it was beyond relatable for me as a writer!
I loved the inclusion of Spanish but admittedly at times I was frustrated that I couldn't understand some poems and the full meaning of the prose.
Nevertheless, once you read this, you'll understand why it was so important for the author to write a bilingual book.
I don't refer to myself as a Chicana (as my Word Processor underlines chicana as a misspelled word, substituting it for Chicano, I'm remind of Anzaldua's passage "Chicanas use nosotros whether we're male or female.
"'Pocho, cultural traitor, you're speaking the oppressor's language by speaking English, you're ruining the Spanish language.' I have been accused by various Latinos and Latinas."That passage hit home.
My first language was Spanish so I feel like there was no excuse for me not to be proficient in it.
Actually, I feel like my english is still inadequate, especially when talking to Anglo's and now I don't feel right in either language.
She knows her culture, she knows her history, and she knows her biography.In Borderlands/La Frontera, feminist Chicana Anzaldua uses several forms of writing (fiction, poetry, social history) to share with the world her culture.
She explores how the Treaty of Guadelupe-Hidalgo, which created the border between Mexico and America, changed her life and created her culture.
Thus came the creation of the Chicano/a, a border culture with their own language, their own ideals etc.Anzaldua is an extraordinarily spiritual person, and that is evident in her writing.
She writes a novel about a culture that's often not heard from, not seen--marginalized and trivialized.
living in the san francisco mission district i realize i want to know more about malinche, holding antinormative spirits close within ambient colonized desire, sifting through a miscellaneous array of semi-viable compromises.
if consciousness perceiving the phenomenon is always some kind of compromise, then how do we speak about this particular view from the street in amerikkka?
people use this book to be able to turn compromise into a plus, and i really feel that.
and that plus is so abundant, generous, surprising, fulfilling in her writing.
i almost want to go, and then i realize i have to learn even more than the little i think i know about malinche.
Borderlands/La Frontera is supposed to be an important Latina feminist work, and I'm sure it was groundbreaking when it came out and important to many people now. I didn't really enjoy the poetry (half the book) or the experimental writing forms (a good part of the other half). I really enjoyed some parts of the book, such as Gloria Anzaldua's discussions on languages "we" speak and sexuality, but being bored by seventy percent of the book did not really leave me with a great impression.
Essays and poetry about the Texas/SW-Mexico borderlands, selected as one of the Best Books of the Year by Library Journal in 1987, which might explain why it is on the library shelf -- that and the fact the library is in a town in a state which is part of the Borderlands. "This is her home -- this thin edge of -- barb wire."
A little too pissed off for my taste. There's nowhere to go with that anger -- like when someone therapeutically dumps all their crap on you and then THEY feel better; meanwhile, you're left with nothing but a steaming pile of doo-doo. I suppose I could find a more eloquent way of saying that, but you get the idea.
