https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18062.The_Best_of_Wodehouse
What a delight is P.G. Wodehouse. This copy is one that I actually bought for my father, and it was the last book he read (or, more accurately, had read to him by a hospice volunteer). Don't know how Jeeves and Bertie sounded with a Texas accent, but I'm sure it was good medicine. It's impossible to be in a bad mood while reading Wodehouse. For anyone who loves language, reading him is like wandering onto a beautiful beach that's been salted with precious gems.
(Something the Monty Python crowd would later call the Upper Class Twit, which is dashed rude if you ask me, but there you are.) Bertie's relatives regard him (incorrectly, he would say) as young, flighty, not actually insane but could be mistaken as such, and constantly marinating in the most rummy imbroglios -- right pickles, some of them are.Wooster's manservant, Jeeves, is the epitome of the English valet: intelligent, discreet, loyal, resourceful.
So different from our hero that the Crawleys could rather do with the likes of young Bertie Wooster popping in for a visit or two.
This anthology of some of PG Wodehouse 's best novels and short stories is a delight to read . 'Over seventy' , his autobiographical essays are just as humourous.
I skipped over the novels in this collection, as I have them in separate volumes, and stuck to the short stories.A great introduction to someone who is fast becoming a favorite.
I only had time to read one story in this - Honeysuckle Cottage, where a man is left his late aunt's cottage. She was the writer of romances, he writes detective thrillers with no women, but the spirit of her stories are haunting the place and everything he does and writes turns into a romance. It was utterly hilarious. When I have time again, I need to read more of these.
It was delightful, but felt a bit extended like a six-episode show stretched to 14 via plot twists.There's then 14 short stories, of which the first five are Wooster and Jeeves.
Wodehouse is better at the short stories, where the tangling and untangling can happen over a shorter period.
Highlights were "Jeeves and the Yule-tide Spirit", which had me laugh out loud, and "Uncle Fred Flits By", which is the collection's introduction to Uncle Fred, a trouble-making old man."Uncle Fred in the Springtime" is a better novel-length story, showing Wodehouse's increasing skill and bringing back many of the characters from the short stories.

An absolute joy. Two novels and short stories. A great introduction to PGW for those who don’t know him. And great reads for his fans. The writing in his stories is wonderful. He has some of the best dialogue ever. Somewhat like my favorite Austen, he always chooses just the right words to construct the perfect sentence. I love his stories because they make me laugh but also because of the writing.
Wow, I really enjoyed this. It's a great intro to Wodehouse, whom I had never read and is now a new favorite. The anthology includes 2 novels, a number of short stories from his various series, and an excerpt from an essay/autobiography at the end. His stories are, truly, delightful. I started acquiring my Wodehouse collection (and happily, there are literally dozens to collect, the man was prolific in the extreme) before I had gotten halfway through the anthology.
Marvellous!
I surrendered to him especially in Uncle Fred in the Springtime which, by far, has one of the most complicated and interwoven plots I have ever encountered in literature.
Simply genius.I'll further explore more Wodehouse novels and short stories for sure, especially those that feature Uncle Fred and Earl of Emsworth.A delightful collection.
If you know and love Wodehouse, you will doubtless agree; if you don't, this tome is a persuasive (though perhaps daunting) introduction.It contains: The Code of the Woosters, which is perhaps the most essential of all the "Jeeves and Wooster" novels, and among my favorites; a dozen or so short stories, including a handful of Jeeves/Wooster ones and others that feature staple Wodehouse characters; Uncle Fred in Springtime, which might be his most famous non-Jeeves novel; and lengthy excerpts from his memoir, Over Seventy.Everything here is quintessential Wodehouse, I think, and nearly all of it hilariously dry, clever, and seemingly effortless.
If you read anything from this (admittedly large) anthology, let it be "Uncle Fred in the Springtime," and "Over Seventy." I'd love to be able to pull a quote that would convince other people to pick this up, but are far too many of them and I'll have to settle for this: "I go in for what is known in the trade as 'light writing', and those who do that -- humorists they are sometime called --- are looked down upon by the intelligentsia and sneered at.
You can't go calling a man a burbling pixie without lowering his morale.
From Wodehouse, one finds the ur-text from which all future British situational comedy would spring forth.In all, I never failed to be bored in reading him, though I was rather cold to the Wooster and Jeeves series in comparison to the other stories.
I found Wooster's voice more annoying than enchanting, really.That said, Wodehouse is *very* good at plotting and finding humor in characters and events, even if his humor is trifle on the silly and shallow side.
You won't find any deep satire here, even if much of what is being satirized is spot on.
That said, it never fails to be amusing.
The first Wodehouse I'd read.
Of course, I'd seen some of the film and TV adaptations but those don't convey the freshness of the humour.
This volums has 3 novellas and some short stories, with all the main Wodehouse characters and settings, Jeeves and Wooster, Blandings Castle.
The volume includes Uncle Fred in the Springtime which had me frequently laughing out loud, certainly the funniest book I've read in a very long time.
I had to stop reading it on the subway.
"Uncle Fred in the Springtime" on it's own would be worth 5 stars for the humour and very clever plot.
I got through everything but the autobiography about a month ago, and thought I might skip it and call it done. However, today I picked it up and found myself emminently in the mood to truly finish the book. Even his autobio is wonderfully amusing. I enjoyed every story in this collection, and undoubtedly will re-read them multiple times, at which point I might consider myself competent to write pithy reviews of each one. Until then, if you are interested at all in his works, I suggest that you simply dig in.
This anthology--along with all Wodehouse work--is an absolute delight to read. I am grateful for having been introduced to him, for there are few authors who can make me laugh in public while reading, and ol' PG manages all the time. Of particular note is an excerpt from his autobiography where he manages to defend Shakespeare against negative comparisons to himself.The 5 stars are for technical mastery of his craft. He's more like a Bach than a Beethoven: you won't necessarily have your heart wrenched by his works, but you'll be entranced by his virtuosity.
Jeeves knows how to get Bertie Wooster out of the predicaments he always seems to find himself in. Fun stories if you like old-style British humour. I didn't actually finish this 700+ page book because the stories started to seem too similar to each other. They weren't originally written for a book, so not really meant to be read together anyway. Maybe I'll pick the book up again at a later date to read more.
My entire family benefited from reading these short stories out loud. This was the best way to share it as after dinner entertainment. Wodehouse remains delightful and wonderfully creative. No film version of Wooster and Jeeves captures the richness and humor of reading the stories because his choice of metaphor is too hilarious to bring out any other way. This is a great volume containing many short stories and a few longer ones.
Cercando una lettura leggera ne ho trovata una che è ancora di più, impalpabile. Storie simpatiche raccontate con una scrittura che fa dello humor britannico il proprio principio fondante, dove Wodehouse inizia e dove va a finire. Purtroppo in alcuni di questi racconti ho trovato la storia divertente ma non molto interessante, insomma, di diverse di queste short stories avrei potuto benissimo far a meno.
I liked this stuff. I think I'm a little overloaded on Wodehouse though because I'm watching through "Jeeves and Wooster" now and I'd seen all the episodes before I read the stories, and in close temporal proximity too, so I didn't get much new out of this read. Would probably get four stars if I read it again in a couple of years.
I got to page 459, which is about half way. I am not sure I will ever really finish this book, though I have enjoyed all of the stories in it thus far. I haven't read anything from it in a long time. Someday I might really finish it off, but I am content for now with what I *have* read out of it. Wodehouse is an excellent, witty writer. I particularly love Jeeves!
A good Wodehouse compendium. I love what a twit Bertie is, and how ridiculous the problems of the main characters are. And of course, Jeeves always saves the day -- and gets his way in the end. This book also includes some stories about other Wodehouse characters, which were fun in their own right. I really liked "Uncle Fred Flits By". A light and fun read.
I love Wodehouse and this does not disappoint. I received this as a Christmas gift, so there were one or two stories that I'd already read. The only thing that disappointed me was that this isn't a comprehensive Jeeves compilation, but a 'best of'.
This is the perfect introduction to Wodehouse. The ten short stories are among his best, and the two novels are wonderfully zany. If one were interested in Wodehouse himself, the editor's timeline would be very helpful.Even the autobiographical piece at the end is entertaining.
From 'Over Seventy' - I don't like biographies at all, but this was barely even similar to a biography. More like having a chat with the guy in a pub. Bet entertaining! The book itself was a wonderful medley and would definitely like to read more Wodehouse after this introduction to him.
Such a fun book to read. All of the stories are delightful and full of humor. The characters are great - especially the dimwitted cast who get dragged around and trampled on like something the cat dragged in, as it were. Just brilliant.
What ho -- I've got to get me some of that old Wooster grit! 5 stars for "The Code of the Woosters", I might like it better than "The Importance of Being Earnest" which is the closest thing to which I could compare it.
I definitely need a dose of Bertie and Jeeves, I've been reading some deep and even depressing stuff lately. Update - upon reading, not as much Bertie and Jeeves and I expected, as I'd already read Code of the Woosters, but a rollicking good read anyway.
This is more of an overall 5 star rating for P.G Wodehouse (this beautiful Everyman's copy just happened to be the Wodehouse I selected from my shelf -- but they're all winners). I always keep him nearby and I pick him up at at least once a year for some laughs.
