https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1189684.The_Last_Hurrah
The Last Hurrah, published in the mid-nineteen fifties, was Edwin O'Connor's first success and his most popular novel.
The plot of The Last Hurrah focuses on a mayoral election in an unnamed East Coast city.
One of Adam's friends explains that the election was "a last hurrah" for the kind of old-style machine politics that Skeffington had mastered.
Both a popular and literary success when published, it remains in my memory as one of the best political novels I have ever read.
Arthur Schlesinger said it is "The best American novel about urban politics."It is an hilariously funny read about a most serious subject.
And all his various cronies and hangers-on are funny, sad and pathetic all at the same time.When they all come to the realization (Skeffington first) that the old order is on the way out and that their time has passed, it is just heartbreaking.The book is supposedly set in a city in the Midwest, but O'Connor was a Bostonian, and it has always been assumed that he wrote this about Boston politics.
Adam's wife Maeve comes froma family that also hates Skeffington.
Skeffington is a man despised by republicans and reform democrats, a dinosaur in their eyes.
Adam, apolitical and curious, goes along for the ride, and his, and the reader's eyes are opened to the complex world city politics and to Skeffington's shrewd, intelligent, pragmatic approach to life and politics.
The plotting is obvious; not only does he give it away in the title but by halfway through the story, the breakdown of the politician's health has been foreshadowed enough times that it comes as no surprise.It was clear that the author wrote a novel to propound his analysis of how ward politics came to an end in Boston.
But it was a bestseller at the time and is still a well known novel amongst those who write about Boston, the Irish and politics.

No-one writes novels quite like this any more. I didn't really expect to be gripped by the story of a mayoral election in the fifties, but I really was. No doubt the Irish Catholic aspect made it more appealing to me, but the central character, and the picture of a time when elections were human in scale, were also arresting.
Politics, politics, politics. It was a tedious read and I only finished it as it was a book club assignment.
I bought this book after reading O'Connor's The Edge of Sadness — which won the Pulitzer in 1961.
The Edge of Sadness is one of the best books I ever read.
The Last Hurrah, written in 1956, is a great portrait of the dying of a political era in Boston — an era of Democratic ward bosses and the last moments of absolute Irish political rule.
The funny thing is, Boston is never mentioned but it's clearly about the city.
There are wonderful laugh out loud moments in The Last Hurrah and some wonderful descriptions of the kind of loyalty that now seems thing of the past.
Edwin O'Connor, a great writer from times a bit past, writing about a style of politics equally past. It's an enormous pleasure to follow a literary giant practicing his craft. And the politics of the northeastern cities, the politics that dominated for so many decades, the politics that ushered Irishmen and Italians into the middle class... O'Connor conveys their subtle, historical reality with absolute precision.
From beginning to end I just couldn't put the book down. Masterfully written, and ahead of its time. It does not surprise me to know that this book, published in the late 50's, was a national best seller. This political story is unlike any other I have read. It holds within inspired details and a narrative which speaks volumes of truth. I enjoyed this book and I'm aware that I will most likely read it again.
I loved it...the reason could be that I remember Spencer Tracey did the movie. As I read the book I visualized Tracy.I felt the story did depict politics at that time....and coming from an old political and special little town...I understood the favors, etc...and did see how old political ways eventually. I wouldn't doubt this could indeed be Thomas Curley's life! What a charismatic character he must have been.
This is a really fine novel about an old time politician gearing up for one final run for office. Francis Skeffington is an American creation and his tale veers back and forth between self-absorption and magnanimity in delicious fashion. An inside look at a by-gone era, it is funny, insighftul, and strangely warm. 'This country is run by madmen. Madmen and midwesterners!' A fine American novel.
Know those books you get assigned to read, you begrudgingly go along, then love the text? Yep, this will totally be one of those.
When you read this book, you'll understand why my partner and I are adapting it to the musical stage. It's both epic and intimate; it's also where the phrase 'the last hurrah' enters the American lexicon. Frank Skeffington is one of the great characters in American fiction.
Very good novel, not much like the John Ford movie, but a gripping, well written story.
Brilliant portrayal of old school politics being usurped by newer politics that use the use of "modern devices" such as the creation of television ads.
Couldn't put this down.
this was a really excellent book! Very surprised, it really took my breath away that it was as good as it was from beginning to end.
I've always heard that the Last Hurrah was a fictional novel about the political career of James Michael Curley of Boston.
I'm glad to have read the book, but I found it a lot of hard work.
For those who don't know, the Last Hurrah is a novel following the most recent attempt to run for Mayor of an unnamed New England city and particularly the incumbent candidate, Frank Skeffington.
Skeffington is the last of the old boss politicians and has made a lot of enemies over time who are convinced they'll beat him this time.

The protagonist, Frank Skeffington, is mayor of a northeastern unnamed city (obviously Boston).
Roosevelt's presidency on the time-honored system of machine politics, the rise of the Irish from immigrant poverty, the clash of lower and upper classes all play into what make Skeffington who he is.
In his seventies, Skeffington decides to run for one last term as mayor of the city, and takes his young, disinterested nephew under his wing for a tour of the old-style political campaign.
The city's elite and wealthy run a young cipher against him, hoping to finally defeat the consummate local politician in his last race.
Skeffington 2020
Possibly the best American political novel ever written and yes, I am including “all the kings men” when I say that.
O'Connor's Pulitzer Prize-winning book, The Edge of Sadness, is one of the best books I have ever read; this book is not nearly as good. O'Connor had a gift for dialogue, and there are flashes of that brilliance in this work. Still, I thought the main characters were unlikable and one-dimensional, and the plot centered on backroom politics and newspaper shenanigans bored me.
The basement wall at his place included the famous picture of Truman holding aloft the 1947 Chicago Tribune with the headline "Dewey Wins!" We both thought it funny.
It being the sixties, we were both moving leftwards, but I was moving more rapidly, further than he.Two of the political books Richard really liked and recommended were The Last Hurrah and Boss Tweed of Tammany Hall.
The Last Hurrah, however, managed to evoke my sympathy for an old-time municipal machine boss, even some tears at its ending.Richard and I both were in the student council at South and always as allies.
Some years ago I enjoyed O'Connor's Pulitzer Prize-winning THE EDGE OF SADNESS, and at some point I read the opening pages of this novel.
Although it got off to a slow start, the novel ultimately becomes engrossing as we, along with Frank Skeffington's nephew, Adam, become involved in Skeffington's bid to be re-elected as Mayor of an un-named American city (obviously based on Boston).
Whaddya know.So i finished my 50,000 words for Nano's requirements, have the husk of a young chicken of a book, sitting near me, and I have been led to read all about the Brothers Bulger - I had read All Saints; fabulous, and I have the Boston Irish on my desk too, and am now reviewing The Last Hurrah, by edwin O'Connor which I found compelling, funny, unexpectedly funny, and it gave dimensions of a rogue politician that there fascinating and lovable.
From the jaded political to the naif first timers.....I believe this is a book that any one who has an interest in politics should read.
While reading this one begins looking at various people in the news with a questionable eye...wondering how far are these charactersfrom this story.
In the end...its' about how a persons' political legacy is built/cultivated before..during and after they leave the public eye.
Thats' what this book is about..Ones' Political Legacy.
is it more important than ones' personal legacy....or does the legend of a persons' legacy trump both the political and personal....Read it...RJH
I thoroughly enjoyed this novel, written in 1956, about big city mayor Frank Skeffington and his last campaign.
Skeffington heads a powerful political machine, typical of the way many major American cities were governed in the mid 1900s.
O'Connor tells the story of the campaign thru Skeffington, Adam Caulfield - Skeffington's nephew and a political outsider, and thru several of Skeffington's longtime political rivals.
Anyone interested in the way big city politics and machines operated in the last century would especially appreciate this, but this novel has aged very well and could be enjoyed by anyone.
That trait made the book, for me, a bit hard to get interested in at the beginning of the story.
But by the time Skeffington has asked his nephew if he wants to follow along as an observer on the campaign trail I was hooked.While many of the characters introduced in the story come off as caricatures this somehow results in a very complex and realistic portrait of Skeffington as an intelligent, charming, and charismatic man who did fabulous things for his people (the Irish community of the unnamed city) and amassed loads of power, but was almost certainly crooked and never really lived up to his potential as a successful mayor and adminstrator.I read the last 100 or so pages in one day and was quite sad to see the story end, just as most of the characters were by the end of the book.
