https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14386207-the-room-with-the-tassels
So, for my work, I read this - a mystery novel from 1918 by prolific writer Carolyn Wells which introduces her Pennington "Penny" Wise series detective character.
And then....Well, it's a murder mystery novel, right, so you have some idea what happens next but perhaps will be surprised at the how (in the moment) and the who.And then pleasant, smart, affable young detective Pennington Wise offers to solve the mystery and moves in with the remaining group.
Notable, to me, for Penny Wise's "pound foolish" assistant, the remarkable Zizi, a slim, elfin 15-year-old girl supposedly a film star and artist model (Pennington Wise illustrates dime-novels on the side) who he uses as a disarming snoop, sounding board and all-around character analyzer.
There's even a conversation between character Milly (who "can't stand" character Eve) and character Norma where, midway through, Norma magically transmutes into Eve. It's not just that the author got the name wrong for the second half of the discussion: it's definitely Eve, not Norma, who holds up her part of the conversation in the later stages.Then there's the episode where Vernie, having promised her cousin Rudolph that under no circumstances will she sleep in the Room with the Tassels, waits until his back is turned and promptly does so.
Of the two characters mentioned in that quote above, Eve is bright but suffers from thinking that she's brighter than she is; Norma's generally the brightest person in the room until Zizi comes along.
This started as a rather silly group of people talking about whether paranormal activity is real or a fake. They decide to travel to a "haunted house" as a rather strange way to spend their summer vacation ... The house is not what they expected (just what they thought a haunted house would be like, I don't know) ... And of course, things get very eerie and strange almost right away. Worse yet, there are two murders. Its a classic locked-room mystery with lively characters and a smart detective.
I love reading books written during the turn of the century. Does not meet 21st century expectations with a more leisurely pacing and set up
The Room with the Tassels: A Pennington Wise Mystery by Carolyn Wells is an enchanting mystery, with an occult flavor, crafted by a writer with deft control of her story.
In a perhaps haunted mansion in Vermont, a group of New Yorkers drawn but a storied murder committed in a tasseled room spend a month.
Too sophisticated to believe in haunted houses, the trip is a romp until two members of the group die suddenly, during an afternoon tea...
Could the supernatural be at the heart of these deaths?
Sophisticated fun from a gentler time are the hallmarks of this first Pennington Wise mystery.
For years I read a lot of mysteries by Carolyn Wells, then they got harder to find (especially, The Gold Bag). Then for years I read nothing by Carolyn Wells. This month I found that my county library system had several titles - old ones, dating back to the early 1900;s. I'm hooked again! I loved this book and will continue to read more, especially now that they are back in print. My next is The Gold Bag which my library found for me through inter library loan, published recently. I'm SO excited!!
This is an old-fashioned mystery novel. But, the charm of the book is in seeing how attitudes and language and plot mechanics were different from what we encounter with contemporary fiction. I found the book quite delightful and very much worth my time.
The Room with the Tassels (Pennington Wise #1)by Carolyn WellsAnother excellent mystery story in the series.Loved it!
Pennington Wise is a good detective, but the credit should really go to Zizi his sidekick!
Loved this mystery.Author Carolyn Wells seems to have a gift for writing a page turning mystery. I loved the plot and found the characters to be interesting. A great read.
The Room with Tassels is the murder-mystery in its best. Fast-paced, riveting, with twists and turns aplenty, enough to have the reader glued to the pages, craving for more. Great read!
I enjoyed this well-written novel with unique characters and brilliant plot. No spoilers here! A must read for mystery lovers and I give 5 stars to author Carolyn Wells.
