https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3801.China_Court
I called them, collectively, "snoozer biddies." Lots of long-face about loves lost, and noble sacrifices in the name of love, and mothers Doing Their All for Their Children, and blah blah blah blah.Forty years later, I pick up China Court at the prompting of memory and the LT connection cloud bringing Rumer Godden's name back up to me.
It reminded me then, and does also now, of my own family.China Court is a house.
I think Rumer Godden deserves the attention of today's readers for her technical talent, her spiritual message, and her ahead-of-the-curve ideas.
I loved this book except for the final two pages. The last scene felt out of place and a bit upsetting after such a beautiful story. I would have given the full five stars if it had ended with the wedding.
One reason I enjoyed this book immensely was because the female Quins weren't just written out once they grew up.So Eustace and Adza marry and have several children, who provided the most interesting characters for the book.
Once I got used to the writing style, I was able to follow the story and the characters quite well, and was able to enjoy the book.The story revolves around Ripsie, a village girl, enamoured by the house and its boys, especially the elder one.
Overall, despite Tracy, Ripsie, and Peter, I enjoyed reading major chunks of the book.
It is also the story of the generations of a single family who lived in the house, but the house is the principal character.
And I fell in love with some of the characters, especially the outsider Ripsie, who is in many ways the heart and soul of the house even if the only place she can make her own mark is outdoors, in the garden.But then--a conventional plot device of pulp fiction comes into the (for Godden) present-day portion of the tale.
If you're the kind of person who froths at the mouth whenever you see a beautiful home being torn town to make room for condos, you need to read China Court.
It's the story of a young girl's efforts to save her grandmother's home in the Cornish countryside.
There's a bit of time travel involved with this book; Godden skips between generations to show everything the home has witnessed over the years.
The resolution to this story literally made me gasp -- it's so daring, I loved it!
This is among my favorite Rumer Godden books, and considering I love them all, that says a lot.
No rating/did not finish.I couldn't even give this my "50 page" test. China Court is written in the stream-of-consciousness style that I dislike the most: the author believes it's artistic and literary to throw characters and sentences and images randomly on the page, with no introduction, chronology, or context; and it is my job to figure out what the hell is going on. I'm very disappointed because if I was able to locate the story, it seems like something I would have enjoyed.
Whilst this idea is an interesting one, it has not been written or executed in such a way that renders the story difficult to put down, or even makes it clear.The Quin family which Tracy descends from is so large – the first generation alone has nine children, for example – that a family tree has been included before the story even begins.
Although the characters at first were confusing (the author jumps around with time periods and you have to keep your head together while reading), I became enamored of the main character, Ripsie, pretty quickly.Ripsie is a young 'waif', a poor village child who cannot stop gazing in through the gates of China House.
In between Ripsie's experiences are scattered vignettes (that the reader eventually pieces together) of the forebears who have lived in China House, English village customs (and gardens!
The central character is Mrs. Quin who knew all five generations, beginning when she was a small girl on the outside looking in—and in love with the dashing grandson of the elderly owners.
Like all good literary fiction, the end of the book is a reflection of the beginning.
For Mrs. Quin memories are often gathered together by like rather than by time or generation; the memory of one marriage blends into another, the telling of one daughter’s rebellion becomes the story of another in another generation.
I was surprised they sent this book through the transport van system as it needed gentle.
But I'm glad they did.And it wasn't long- maybe about 25 pages- that I remembered I had read it before.
And I read it again, and enjoyed it again.Lots of layers and rather a puzzle you need to work outwords- like a jigsaw type.
Putting everyone in their place and time!
LOVE that aspect- as most historical fiction of the last 15 years is written within entirely revisionist judgment and outlook.
But makes you work for it.
There was so much to love about this book -- the old English house, called China Court because its owners made their fortune mining the special clay used to produce china -- plus three generations of fascinating family members.
Unfortunately most of them led unhappy lives, until the youngest granddaughter makes an appearance.
Her parents were divorced and she was taken away at an early age by her mother, but she cherishes her childhood memories of China Court and loves it just as much as does her grandmother, Mrs. Quin.
I especially loved the descriptions of the house, food, clothing, garden, and old books in the library.
The weird wedding with its shrew(!?)-taming ending made me howl with indignation. It may reflect its times, but that argument always strikes me as a wee bit patronizing of the sensibilities of the past. It's a very surprizing ending, given Godden's sympathy with characters who chafe against the way their lives are limited. Even though some of the characters were caricatures, there were some interesting portraits, and the concept of a house full of the echoes of its families was engaging. What I most enjoyed were her loving, beautiful descriptions of gardening and rare books.
I really struggled with this book at first, but once you become familiar with the family and servants, and the generational hopscotch writing, the story slowly draws you in. Thankfully my copy had the family tree on both ends of the book, which I referred to frequently! Mrs. Quin and her granddaughter Tracy are my favorite characters in a most unusual telling of life in an English country house over a century ago.
One of my favorite authors-- as usual her work is great. A good read
So much that is lovely and honest and sad here, and then you read the last few pages. What was Godden thinking?
Rumer Godden’s China Court: The Hours of a Country House is a lyrical novel that has one nuanced character—the court (or house) itself.
However, Godden continually flashes back to moments in the lives of past and present family members, moments that give the current happenings depth and perspective.
I appreciated aspects of this novel, particularly the beauty of Godden’s descriptive passages, which engage all senses.
If you do choose to read China Court (keep in mind that many other readers liked it much better than I did), to avoid perplexity, I urge you to keep in hand a copy of the family tree that appears in the beginning of the novel.
This is the story of five generations of an upper middle class English family who live in a country house, & over the more modern generations it becomes increasingly neglected, but Tracy - the descendant of all these generations - is determined to save it.
I like the way the stories of family members from different generations are interspersed with one another so you get a sense of time as a great weaving with the house at its center & the various people woven into the thread around it.
I also like the way the book was organized around the readings for the hours of the day in a prayer book.
I like thinking up alternate endings.
Painful to readThis book is such a mishmash that I don't know where to start.
The "current" events - at least as best I can tell - are written in a past tense voice.
O!set events, such as when Ripsie is involved, are written in present tense voice.
I started skimming about halfway through the book just to get to the end so I could write this review and warn others.
The biography and pictures of the author at the end of the book are the most interesting.
BOTTOM LINE: Excellent family saga novel, with the various eras all mixed together, at first disconcerting but ultimately absorbing.
As the story gradually (VERY gradually...) unfolds, we are allowed to experience both the old lady's last days on earth and her childhood and young adulthood around the estate and the local village.
Yes, there's a hero, and also several not so heroic young men, but the center of the novel is Ripsie, the young village outcast who becomes the matriarch of a rambunctious family line and, eventually, the irascible old lady at the center of the will disputes that power the ending of the story.
This book, while not one of Godden's best, is intersting and engrossing.
Godden has a distinctive voice and style, and was very popular in the first half of the 20th century, and her stuff, if you can find it, is worth a look.
Some members of my work book club loved it , some hated it.
I myself recommend one of my favorite Godden books: In This House of Brede,The Battle of the Villa Fiorita or a memoir A House with Four Wallsfor a fascinating look at godden's interesting life in India.
I love rambling family sagas, especially those set in England; so this book did not disappoint on that front.
Other reviewers have been critical of the rambling, time-shifting narrative, but I enjoyed the novel's structure, and bought into the author's assertion that meeting a large family takes time to distinguish who is who.
To me, the entire family was revealed much as one peels the layers of an onion.
I am critical, however, of the ending -- not only was it jarring (and disturbing), it felt abrupt in a manner was was entirely at odds with the meandering pace of the rest of the novel.
So my mother tried to get me to read Rumer Godden for years, and I don't know why I resisted seeing as I'm usually won over by anything set in an English country house (maybe it was because I was a teenager - though hardly a rebellious one).
After my local library thoroughly disappointed me by not stocking Dorothy Sayers so I could re-read her and get my Lord Peter fix, I decided to give Godden a try.
Maybe it was the very odd ending, which involves a woman getting slapped.
But I won't write Godden off.
Lovely novel about three generations of a family who live in a beautiful country house in Cornwall.
Beautifully written book about a house and the generation that lived in it. A reminder that life is what we make it. It is a little slow in places but worth sticking through.
Ugh. Love this author. Hate this book. Gave up after about 50 pages.
Did not like the premise of starting the reader off with a feeling of "a family gathering where the reader doesn't know anyone." Did not make it past page 50.
Another in my “read through the 20th century” project, this was published in 1960 and just goes to show that it’s a good idea to read old books! With a few exceptions I loved most everything about this beautifully written book that’s set in Cornwall in a rambling old country house sadly in need of renovation. The house figures significantly in the narrative because it has been home for five generations of the family who has lived there. I’ve read this book before and liked it as much then as I d
But what really stands out about this novel is the way Godden uses time itself as a structural device.
In using the monastic hours as a structural device I think Godden is emphasizing what is sacred about the hours that flow through the lives of each generation of a family: “The stories are different – of course, each has its time and place – yet they are all alike in that, as with every day, they must be lived through from sunrise to sunset, all the hours of the day; and as the day ends, it begins.”
This book has a little drama, but most of the impact had to do with emotional reveals of the main characters: What events in the house shaped them I think this book was meant to tell the story of the occupants of a house through the eyes of the house.
Once a character leaves the house- they truly cease to exist.
There is a character that sickens if she moves from the house.
It is hard to move back and forth with an ereader and this book is meant to be read that way
She was with me in my childhood with her doll stories, and her very different tales have entertained, and even instructed, me through the years.
I've never been able to remember the book the scene was in , and was amazed to find the scene in China Court a few days ago.
Later in the book, there is another scene where a will was being read, and I suddenly knew how that will was going to play out.
Clearly, I had read this book before without remembering any of its other parts.
An old Cornish country house breathes forth its memories of the generations who have lived in it as it gets a new lease on life in a most surprising way.
Each chapter opens with a vignette from an antique illustrated book of hours, for reason revealed late in the story.I loved the way the characters Ripsie and Tracy, the most rootless characters in the story, cherished not only the house but what it represented of the times that came before them.
I loved also the celebration of domestic life and its contentments.
