https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26948.Three_Novels_of_Old_New_York
What an amazing experience it was to read The House of Mirth and The Age of Innocence back to back. One written early in Wharton's career and the other at the end. Wharton's writing is luminous and her perspicacious portrait of New York society in the Gilded Age is smart, intelligent, and incisive. We should all read more Wharton!30 June 2017 Re-reading again for my seminar in Toronto.
I read the first book in this collection, "The House of Mirth." . . . . it was frustrating and depressing. I have not moved on to either of the others. I do love the old way of writing so I gave it three stars, but I found the inability of the characters to speak truthfully to each other, which would have made their lives soooo much easier in the first place, irritating! But then, I guess that was how it was in those days.
All three of these books, especially The Age of Innocence, touch on the timeless hypocrisy of life and society. It amazes me how much hasn't changed since 1900..
Undie eventually runs her husband into the ground with her incessant demands, leaving her free to move on.Undine moves on and up to marry a count who is heir to one of Europe's great names.
The financial imperatives of the new age had crushed the count as well, leaving the irredeemably boorish Undine and Elmer to reep the rewards.The Custom of the Country makes clear the author's disdain for her own city and social class.
Ellen eventually returns to Europe to live out her days.Years later, after his wife conveniently has died, Newland visits his son in Paris.
A delightful and appropriate ending.
A lovely and haunting read.The House of Mirth:Although it is a bit transparent, moralistic and histrionic, I love her descriptions of inner torment and it's rare to meet an omniscient narrator who has as much respect for her characters as Wharton.
Her management of tension was superb and her characters carefully drawn.
A delight.The Custom of the Country:Frustrating because of how well written the penetrations into Undine Spragg's psyche are.
After reading all three I'm in love with Wharton's imagination and management of tone.
Her characters are never perfect - making them only seldom likeable, but she knew what she was doing.
"These people whom she had ridiculed and yet envied were glad to make a place for her in the charmed circle about which all her desires revolved." ~ House of Mirth
House of Mirth.
America and Europe of the 1800s were stiff, gilded, formal place, full of "old" families, rigid customs and social transgressions.And nobody chronicled them better than Edith Wharton, who spun exquisitely barbed novels out of the social clashes of the late nineteenth century.
"Three Novels of New York: The House of Mirth, The Custom of the Country, The Age of Innocence" contains some of the best work she ever did, exploring the nature of infidelity, passion, social-climbing and a woman's place in an unfriendly world."Age of Innocence" is a pretty ironic title.
I thought that this was a really humorous and interesting look at New York Society.
It was rather different than the serious and sometimes upsetting story of The House of Mirth, but I quite enjoyed it.
It was definitely sad, but a very interesting look at how the glitz and glamour of upper crust society can sometimes turn into the very cage that entraps its members.
I would certainly recommend The House of Mirth as the #1 must-read of Wharton's work, but this is a great novel to show a very different element of her work as well.
I can' t find The Custom of the Country by itself here, but I just recently read it based on a New Yorker article about Edith Wharton. The arricle argued that the novel rivals The Great Gatsby as a commenraey on early 29th century America. I read The Age of Innocence within the last year and am currently re-reading House of Mirth.
So...what can I say about Custom of the Country and The House of Mirth. Well, I the book (they were both in the same collection) across the room on more than one occasion. The characters make you crazy, but you can't stop reading. The Age of Innocence was also excellent. I think I threw that one only once.
Except for The Custom of the Country, which was utterly inferior, I would give these volumes five stars. Lily Bart and Ellen Olenska are two of my favorite fictional characters (along with Anna Karenina and Becky Sharpe - could there be a pattern here?), and it's good to be reminded of how few options women had not too long ago.
A trip to Edith Wharton's home in New England inspired me to read up, and the Three Novels of Old New York were classic tales of Wharton-era Manhattan: down-on-their-luck ladies, impetuous young men, unwanted pregnancies... You know, stuff we don't have anymore in the 21st century.
The House of Mirth broke my heart years ago.
The Custom of the Country was relatively forgettable. Both The Age of Innocence and House of Mirth are wonderful reads. The movie adaptation of House of Mirth was a horrible train wreck, however.
Very heavy without hope stories
Read The Age of Innocence for book group. Rich descriptions, can see a lot of the author and her loveless marriage in the book. Did not really enjoy it.
