https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27833670-dark-matter
I suppose we’re both just trying to come to terms with how horrifying infinity really is. This book made me feel tiny. It was overwhelming and scary, but oh so very gripping too. Dark Matter is the kind of compelling "I must know WTF is going on" book that makes you forget about everything else you had to do that day. You step into this world - this absolute mind fuck of a world that will tug at both your heart strings and your brain cells - and you don't want to come out until you know how it
Jason Dessen goes through some serious shit and it's hard not to find sympathy for him when his life is ripped apart.After being abducted one night by a masked man, Jason is knocked unconscious and wakes in an unfamiliar place, surrounded by unfamiliar people who all seem to think he's somebody he isn't.
When you think you've wrapped your brain around where this book is taking you and what's going on - well, buckle your seat belts, because this ride is about to get a whole lot crazier.
4.5This book f*cked me up.
LOVED IT!!!
This book is insanity in a box!
If you like sci fi or want something different and can suspend disbelief read or listen to this book!This is the audio version review!
The audio narrated by actor, Jon Lindstrom, is as good as it gets!
This man was born to narrate books!
When you think it can't get any crazier it does!
If there is a trigger warning for boxes this book should have it!
He has been married to Daniela for years.
He has a son, Charlie, who is almost 15 years old.
He works at a college and loves his family.
It's terrifying when you consider that every thought we have, every choice we could possibly make, creates a new world. Dark Matter, to be blunt, is miles and miles away from the line that marks my ‘‘comfort zone.’’ I never, or very, very seldom, read books such as this one.But the truth is, I never read a book like Dark Matter before.It’s a love story, it’s a thriller, it’s a science fiction book.It’s thought-provoking, gripping, action-filled.It makes you think about life and family and what
Dark Matter, to be blunt, is miles and miles away from the line that marks my ‘‘comfort zone.’’ I never, or very, very seldom, read books such as this one.But the truth is, I never read a book like Dark Matter before.It’s a love story, it’s a thriller, it’s a science fiction book.It’s thought-provoking, gripping, action-filled.It makes you think about life and family and what matters most.Who you are, who you were, who you could be.What you want, what you need and what you should have.When to start, when to stop and when to go back.The writing is so very simplistic, but it does the job.
Best way to sum this up - one of the most unique and original stories I have read in a long time.
75% of this book I cannot give you a similar example of from another story.I can see why others have said it is tough to review without spoiling.
EVERYONE SHOULD READ THIS BEFORE IT GETS SPOILED FOR YOU!It is the perfect balance of suspense, action, sci-fi, romance, and WHAT THE HECK!?!?
I was enthralled the entire time and did not want to put it down (but we all have to sleep and work sometime, right?)Maybe this book isn't for you, but perhaps there is a different version of you somewhere and it is perfect for them.
It doesn't need you to think too much about it, and it doesn't need you to remember it a few weeks later when you're doing other more important stuff.It just wants to hang out and take you on a little ride for the weekend and then let you off to get back to your real life.Keep your arms and legs inside at all times.
We know you have choices when it comes to science fiction thriller books, and we thank you for choosing this one to entertain you today.The Martian.Harlan Coben, any of them.No more comparisons.I can see this being made into a movie.
I just read the craziest book and it was so good.
I was going along wanting to find out what in the world has happened to Jason!
Just trying to enjoy this book and they lured me right on down that hole!
I mean this is a book that you need to talk about with people.
Holy crow, the things Jason has to go through just to try to find his wife Daniela and his son Charlie is CRAZY!!!The book is good though, it will definitely keep you on your toes and have a lot of those what the..
Months ago, when I first saw your new book listed on NetGalley, it was vague and sneaky, both things I like in a book, but I decided to wait on requesting until I saw a couple of reviews.
Then it hit me-everyone was describing this new book as a love story.
I’m not sure who’s bright idea it was to release your book during this Stranger Things phenomenon, but it was genius.
I’ll be recommending this to everyone in the near future and am sure to include this in my Top Books of 2016 round up.Thanks again, and looking forward to the next book.
Wow. Mind-blown. Amazed. Completely enamored.This book shook me up, made me think and held my heart captive. I’m beyond impressed with Blake Crouch’s writing. The philosophical nature of this story and his ability to paint such a vivid world with his words really got to me. It shook me to my core.  “Are you happy in your life?” I’m the first to admit, science-fiction isn’t my thing. Not my go-to genre or even one I read with any type of consistency. In fact, it was seeing sci-fi in the blurb tha
Completely enamored.This book shook me up, made me think and held my heart captive.
I loved every single moment of Jason’s story.Right out of the gate, it was a heart-pounding, on the edge of my seat, ‘what is going on?’ kind of story.
It’s a race to find his way back home, to the life he wants and those he loves the most.
Along the way, the author presents so many questions and quandaries about life.
I loved that he never, not for one single moment, wavered on his decision and ultimately what he wanted.
What can I say, I’m a sucker for a love story.
Or will I disown him and everything he loves, and step into the skin of the person this world would like for me to be?And if I have lost my mind, what then?What if everything I know is wrong?No. Stop.I am not losing my mind.”There is nothing more frustrating to a reviewer than reading a book that can’t be written about.
The first order of business is to convince your friends to read it with you because you are going to want to discuss this book over numerous bottles of wine and a platter of cheese and pretzels.
Well now that I have read this book, I’m sometimes up during these early night self-destruction hours wondering how many of my alternate universe selves are dead, and thinking about all the parallel universes and different versions of me, and how in one universe I could be a graceful ballet dancer, Iron Man might be my least favorite superhero or I might think One Direction are good or—god forbid—I could hate Cheerios.Someone need to collapse the multiverse immediately, I’m going to SCREAM.
Like, who am I?You know those moments when you look in the mirror and you think holy fuck!
semifinalist in goodreads' best science fiction category 2016!what is this book….???i suppose it's best described as a sci fi/speculative fiction love story with philosophy sauce all over it.it's also another one of those reviewing-on-eggshells books, because of all the spoilers that could possibly be spoilt, where we're going to have to dance our way around a bunch of important nouns and verbs.so, this little puzzle book of genre-blending mastery...
i know i wrote "love story" up there and that might make you want to give this a pass, but don't let it dissuade you!
Click here to watch a video review of on my BookTube channel, From Beginning to Bookend. To describe this book would be to distract from the elements of surprise, mystery and thrilling confusion found within its pages. Dark Matter is best picked up with as little knowledge of the story as possible and its events explored with the same sense of vulnerable astonishment as the protagonist, Jason Dessen. The pacing and structure of this novel are brilliant. Events unfold in evermore enticing ways, a
Dark Matter is best picked up with as little knowledge of the story as possible and its events explored with the same sense of vulnerable astonishment as the protagonist, Jason Dessen.
Events unfold in evermore enticing ways, and Crouch masterfully concludes each chapter in such a way that there's an urgent need to promptly being reading the next one.
The unique sentence structure employed by Crouch further increases the sense of speediness and tension.
Dark Matter is a sensational technothriller that transcends the ordinary and escorts readers to an unexplored realm of infinite possibility.
What on Earth can I say about this book?
I’m just going to say it was totally AWESOME!!!
I went into this book totally blind and had no idea of the plot.
Also, there were surprises along the way-- the book is unpredictable--and I remained on edge until the end.I would highly recommend this to anyone who enjoys thrillers and honestly can’t believe anybody would hate it.
I thought it was AMAZING and so far the best thrilling fiction I’ve read in a long, long time.I have hopes for a second book and I’m looking forward to reading more by this author.
*4.5 stars!*Boxes and multiverses and quantum physics, oh my!This is one thought-provoking, page-turning, blood-pressure-elevating, fast-paced son of a book, and I enjoyed every little action-packed minute of it!"The most beautiful thing we can experience is the mysterious."—Einstein  I don’t read much science-fiction, and for that reason I’m gonna go ahead and say you don’t have to be a scifi veteran in order to get sucked into the brilliance of this one.
You know that feeling when you’re reading a book whose ideas are so unique and intelligent and intricately-constructed that you have to reread certain concepts once or five times just to prove to yourself that you got this, and that, no, you are not an actual idiot?
Review was originally published on Through the Chapters|Blog  "We all live day to day completely oblivious to the fact that we're a part of a much larger and stranger reality than we can possibly imagine.”  I can securely declare that this book have changed the way I perceive the world and my existence in the universe.But first things first. Dark Matter portraits an ordinary, middle aged professor, Jason Dessen, having a peaceful evening with his wife and his teenage son. After his decision to m
I can securely declare that this book have changed the way I perceive the world and my existence in the universe.But first things first.
We live on a beautiful planet, we breathe, we fell in love, we make plans about our future, and we are told that we are unique.
Alternative universes, alternatives realities, a better or worse or a completely deferent version of yourself, and the choices that make you “you”, are the main topics that Blake Crouch is attempting to elaborate in his book “Dark Matter”.
It begins with Jason, a physics professor surrounded by his beloved wife, Daniela, and his teenage son, Charlie, cooking supper.
On his way home, Jason is abducted, after which life as he knew it shatters.I found myself seeing the book through the lens of the band, The Talking Heads...their album titles, song titles and lyrics....this is not my beautiful wife.....Stop Making Sense......Psycho Killer...
If this novel was art, it would be a fusion of Surrealism, Cubism and Abstract Art. It is a rumination of all that a person could be, the many paths that could have been followed and decisions taken.
Home is the love of Daniela and Charlie.
One night he goes out to meet a friend for drinks, but he ends up being kidnapped by a mysterious man who somehow rips him out of his life and drops him in the middle of a nightmare.This is one of those books that’s nearly impossible to review without spoilers because so much of what happens comes after major revelations are made.
Here’s the 100% spoiler free review: This is an entertaining sci-fi thriller that reminds me of recent books like Influx (Slightly better than this.) and The Fold (Slightly worse.) It’s got a pretty good hook, and the story is begging to be turned into a movie although the trailer will probably give away the entire plot once they film it.
Follow for more of the exact same content!Anyway this was a particularly bad time for me to put off writing a review, because I barely understood this book while I was reading it and I sure as sh*t don’t have a comprehensive synopsis to give you now.Basically this book is physics and sci-fi and it’s a little confusing but not in a brain-hurt-y way more like “oh I probably don’t have a full understanding of the causes and/or ramifications of what’s happening here but it doesn’t really matter because I know enough to enjoy this whole plotline situation and I’m not here for a breezy fictionalized physics tutorial anyway.”So if that is what you’re looking for, I can’t really speak on whether you can find it here.What you CAN find is a semi-confusing VERY fun lightly thrilling book that will make you feel kind of smart-ish instead of dumb, like most science-y books!
night is family night with Jason, Daniela, and their son Charlie].
The dialogue is intimate - but at times the narration felt laborious - however the author draws us in anyway.
So....FOR PEOPLE WHO 'HAVE' read this book....I have questions: But NO SPOILERS --so if other 'book-lovers' are reading this - my questions won't give anything away.What did you think about Amanda?
I tried to imagine being in her shoes...Daniela was strong and always held her own--almost a saint at times--but I still felt sorry for her.
TWISTY THINKING!!Our imaginations are being stretched like an old stretched rubber band.
Blake Crouch is a very tricky guy. *Warning-this is a mostly gif review because I have no clue on how to review it without spoiling.*You really can't review his books without giving them away. A buddy and I were talking about him last night, it feels like HE isn't even sure where the story is going. But you better hang on because it's always a bumpy ride. This one starts out just like a normal book. (I'm not spoiling for this part) Jason Dessen is just an average guy. He is married to his long t
*Warning-this is a mostly gif review because I have no clue on how to review it without spoiling.*You really can't review his books without giving them away.
A buddy and I were talking about him last night, it feels like HE isn't even sure where the story is going.
This one starts out just like a normal book.
He is married to his long time love, has a teenage son, isn't really rich, his life would be classified more around average.
Thank you book fairy!
I need to count how many friends I have that have read a book before I do that again.
Sci-fi was never a genre I gravitated towards, but now I want to read them all!This book poses the question of “Are you happy in your life?”, after the main character is abducted one night.
For a thriller novel, it's quite philosophical and I love that, calling the readers into question, making it engaging and to decipher what we want from this life and what's important to us.
Since I highly doubt we'll be experiencing the journey this character went on, it was still extremely engaging.
Think about the choices you've made in your life.
If you liked the film Interstellar, you might like this.
I did not like Interstellar.I found the plot to be intriguing, but not particularly original.
It felt like a rehashing of many stories.
"It felt like it was the first time you had really seen me.
Maybe the first time anyone had ever really seen me.
Like I was your oxygen." *groan*I hate to be a Debbie Downer, but I really feel like I read a completely different book than everyone else.
It's saving grace is that it was a quick read and I never felt like DNFing it.
4.5/5 Stars(My last review of 2016 and I’m really glad it’s this book that I chose. Thank you very much to one of my GR best friend Mary for recommending this book to me.) “Are you happy with your life?” Single question that you’ve probably wondered or been asked several times throughout your life. How far will you go to save the one you love? Do you ever have any regrets in your life and wondered what would happen if you didn’t make that mistake?Obviously we all have regrets, we lose someone, w
Do you ever have any regrets in your life and wondered what would happen if you didn’t make that mistake?Obviously we all have regrets, we lose someone, we regret some of the choices we make, and we thought something like “I shouldn’t have said that”, “I should’ve done the other option” and a tons other similar questions that came up in our head.
“For anyone who has wondered what their life might look like at the end of the road not taken.”
Thank you for reading my review until today everyone, I’ll see you again in 2017.
Not just any old roller coaster ride though (definitely not) but one that was really quite unique.
Well, it's definitely a thrill a minute ride that's for sure, but it's also a love story between Jason & Daniela Dessen, and if that isn't enough, it's mixed with a great big dollop of sci-fi.The opening scene is one of complete domesticity, family life at it's most simple and comforting.
Jason, encouraged by Daniela, decides to walk to his local bar to have a drink with an old buddy, but on his journey home he is abducted at gun point and made to drive to an abandoned warehouse.
Also, the plot is not just about what the book blurb says.
It goes way deep.
This book is introspective.
As Jason, our protagonist, questions the choices he made in his life, you as a reader do the same too.
And as Jason is trying to puzzle out everything, you are in this journey with him and get to see what might happen if you take the wrong turn.
But then there’s no right or wrong.
The ending was surprising but some part of me knew this was the only right way to end this.
However, the gang at Goodreads made me change my mind.
Every once in a while, a book feels like it was written with my admittedly peculiar tastes in mind.
This is one of those books that caught lightning in a bottle.As with reads like The Man from Primrose Lane and The Great Forgetting, I'm going to keep this as vague as possible to retard spoilage.
It's so damn readable I want to punch Blake Crouch in the junk.Jason Dessen made for a great lead, a scientist with a loving family and a life he wasn't that enthused about.
this book is totally living in the year 2080 and i cant keep up.
this book is everything that is right in the sci-fi world.
this is proof that sci-fi can be written exceptionally well and appeal to the masses, regardless of individual genre preferences.
it was a thriller but also appealed to the softer side of me.
this was a truly entralling book that i would strongly recommend to those looking to delve into the world of sci-fi, and also to those who have already come to love the genre.
It was mostly a science fiction novel with a little bit of romance and some suspense to make it a most enjoyable read.
All three of those components is what I really liked about this novel.
But, it was filled with non-stop action and had a very dramatic storyline to make it quite the page-turner and I couldn't stop thinking about it.
The storyline was extremely interesting and I really liked the authors writing style as I felt that I was actually experiencing what was happening to the characters rather than just reading about it.
4.5* A quantum physicist Jason Dessen is a happy, contented family man living for the past 20 years in Logan Square, Chicago in a brownstone home.
Daniela knows there is a celebration party for an old college buddy just down the road at Jason’s favorite bar, the Village Tap. She encourages him to go and offer hearty congratulations.
How does anyone know that a happy, peaceful life changes when it’s least expected.
Thought provoking, fascinating, and superbly presented, it is book that will leave you in awe.
and NetGalley for the opportunity to read this book in exchange for my honest review.
