https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/961833.Mariana
They're not always classics, or particularly well known, but for some reason you're so caught up in them that after you're through reading the final page, you close the book and think to yourself, "now that's a keeper".Such was the case of Mariana, a book about the redemptive power of reincarnation, lost love, found love, going backward to go forward, and (the cherry on my sundae) a old beloved house.Book illustrator Julia Beckett first sees the 16th century house, Greywethers, on a family jaunt when she's only 5, and promptly pronounces it "her house".
Little by little, Mariana's life begins to effect Julia's own present day life, and the lives of Mariana and her lover Richard de Mornay must come full circle before Julia can move forward with her own conflicting feelings for Geoffrey.Kearsley did a fantastic job blending the time travel so seemlessly throughout the book.
MARIANA by SUSANNA KEARSLEY was an absolutely beautiful and enchanting tale that swept me away into a fascinating journey of past and present through time travel and reincarnation.SUSANNA KEARSLEY delivers a well-written and intriguing historical romance novel that was easy to follow along with all the characters and the time travel aspects of this book which I found flowed very smoothly throughout this story.
I was extremely intrigued with the premise of this book.THE ENDING was surprising, romantic, and bittersweet but yet very satisfying for another enjoyable read!
Whom I wish to personally thank for introducing me to another great read!
Thank you, Frances!http://www.twogirlslostinacouleereadi...
An astounding tale that is so well written you become completely lost in the story. As it is one of my favourite books I gave it as a gift recently. I was surprised but pleased at how much my friend enjoyed it by informing me that she read it in one sitting and has since read it an additional two more times. This book is definitely a keeper and is highly recommended. Well done Ms. Kearsley.
I really don't know what I'm going to do when I run out of Susanna Kearsley's books to read.
After finishing The Rose Garden a few days ago, I told myself to wait at least a few weeks to read this one - you know, to stretch it out, so I wouldn't go through withdrawal or anything.
The west wing of Avebury Manor, the real Crofton HallIf I had one complaint about Mariana, it was that it wasn't longer.
I wanted more time to get to know these characters, and I felt that certain relationships could have been a bit more developed.
This is the second book of Kearlsey's I have read, and loved it just as much (if not more) than the first..
Yup I totally have this book pegged.....
Before you know it the ending has come and your still realing days later.
I literally had to let the full extent of the story and its affect on me work its way in to the crevaces of my wee brain before I could even attempt to articulate a review.Ladies- No Sex...
Which while getting to know these characters is a real bummer...
However the story didn't need it..
But I digress...Amazing story....
"Mariana" is definitely not the type of book that I would normally read.
Set in an English village, this is basically a romance story about two lovers who were separated by circumstances 300 yers ago and their love is so strong that they are reincarnated now to finally be together.
I personally prefer my books a little edgier: the mystery more mysterious, the romance more passionate.
All of this of course, if you have a sexy gardener and a lord of the manor nearby interested in you.Overall, "Mariana" is a sweet and cozy little book about love, reincarnation and destiny that I surprisingly enjoyed much more than I thought I would.Reading challenge: #1 - M
I really wish this one wasn't over.
The twist at the end was phenomenal.
It had been nagging me that perhaps Julia had it all wrong, and I ended up being right.
(view spoiler)[I thought several times that Iain might be Richard, and I kept hoping so because I liked him more than I liked Geoff.
(hide spoiler)]Honestly, this book has left me somewhat speechless.
I do wish there had been a bit more with our final two, however.
The ending seemed abrupt.
Well, this book made weepy and contemplative, sad and happy.
I love books that do that, you know?
This was so beautifully written!! I think I may have found another favourite author. I read this book on the recommendation of a friend. I'm so glad I did! Thank-you Frances :)This book has bits of everything I enjoy...an old English country house (with a history all of it's own,) a story in the past and present (time travel), and some romance.A definite 5 star plus!
Eh. Just didn't work for me at all.
Mariana was a weirdly passive Mary Sue, and Julia was just lifeless.
(view spoiler)[So we've got a nice spark in the beginning with the hot Scottish gardener (who is basically a character from the other two books I've read by her), but instead Julia listlessly falls into an endlessly boring tepid non-romance with a rich guy who travels all the time, and pretty much only takes her to the neighborhood bar and pecks her on the cheek now and again.
(hide spoiler)] The ending was good fun, but too late by then.
Believing herself to be the reincarnation of Mariana, Julie tries to understand or live through her previous life when she is thrust in to the past without any warning only to lose a part of her present self each time.
The closer she gets to the story of Mariana the harder she has to try to hold on to herself from completely turning in to her other self.This story explains Julie's predicament as reincarnation rather than giving it any scientific explanation as in "Winter Sea".
The ending was abrupt on Julie's end or atleast I felt like it whereas Mariana's was complete and sad.

For a detailed, immersive read but not one that is exactly an action-packed historical, that is saying something indeed.The strength of the book largely lies in the eponymous character Mariana - both in her 1660's body/life of Mariana and as more modern Julia Beckett.
D: John?!)  (hide spoiler)] because I was so keyed in on the main characters of Mariana/Julia and Richard/??
Mariana is an engrossing and rewarding, lengthy read - fans of time-slip historicals will love and even new-to-the-subgrenre people will find a lot to enjoy about this alternate 1660's and modern of reincarnated love.
5++++ STARS!Absolutely fantastic book, I loved it! An amazing mix of fantasy, past lives, magic, romance and suspense, this was an engrossing read I couldn't put down unless I had to. I adored Julia, adored Freda, Viviene, Iain....I loved others too, but saying names would spoil things. I wish we had more of an ending, that's my only complaint. Just read it, it's so good, so, so good. definitely a favorites category, loved it.
To express my feelings I need to give away basically the entire book so DO NOT click the below spoilers button unless you want to have the book ruined for you.
(view spoiler)[Obviously the entire book I thought Geoff was Richard, but I also didn't really think they seemed all that similar and it seemed a shame that he didn't remmeber what Julia could.
And while I liked Geoff (more so than Richard actually) I wasn't sure how Kearsley was going to reconcile the two at the end, especially since Julia seemed to be more in love with Richard than Geoff.
The characters were under developed, the romance barely there, and nonsensical besides, and the twist ending existed merely to enable the book to be categorized as 'twisty'.The 'witch', the brother, and the bartending friend existed only as a way to provide a match for the earlier incarnations of characters, though their soul pairings seemed incidental and emotionally unfulfilling.
And if the brother turned out to be a soul-pairing, then who the heck was Geoff's prior incarnation?
And how does Julia's love so suddenly turn off for him and immediately light upon Iain, merely because she understood his reincarnation?
As a history nerd, I have always wanted to go back and see history first hand.
On my visit to London I would stand in certain castles, areas, etc and just wish I could go back in time.
She is drawn to a 16th century farmhouse, which she buys.
Then suddenly she finds herself reliving her prior life in the 17th century.
Her uncle is a Puritan who wants to bring back the Cromwell years, while the man she falls in love with supports the King.
As she transports between both worlds, we hang on to every page.
Kearsley once again transported and moved me, like only she can.
One of the BEST romance books I have read in a long time! :D
DNFI got bored.
I loved reading this sweeping, romantic, enthralling, atmospheric love story that intertwines the present day with the 17th century.
It reminded me of Kate Morton, sort of modern gothic, but much heavier on the romance.
I loved the characters, I loved the historical setting and its modern day counterpart, I even loved the love story - it made my heart beat a little faster and gave me butterflies in my stomach (which is generally how I judge a good romance in books).
It was a fun, escapist read and I can't *wait* to pick up more Susannah Kearsley!
When Julia Beckett was a little girl, she pointed at an old house in an English village and said, with great conviction, ‘that’s my house.’ Twenty-five years later, she buys the house and moves to live there.
A gentle and beguiling story of romance, betrayal, and reincarnation, Mariana has an old-fashioned feeling to it.
The book was published in 1994, which is after the invention of the internet, but Julia’s brother must go to the library to dig up tales of reincarnation and past life flashbacks.
And I can’t help wishing I could buy an old house in an English village, and discover I once lived there before …
I realised that last August was when I read The Firebird and Named of the Dragon, it seems that Kearsley's books are the answer when I find myself completely sick of summer and longing to be cosy!This book follows Julia, a woman who is drawn to a specific cottage in a small English village her whole life.
The story is full of twists and turns, with things happening that I could never have guessed, and so I wished we saw a little more after that ending.As with every Kearsley book I read, I was instantly drawn into the story and fell in love with the characters and the little village.
aaand the past might just bore you to tears.
She's a bit like wallpaper that one.
I liked the present storyline a bit better.
Julia (or reincarnated Mariana) was less wallpapery, too.
Spoilers or mild comic relief ahead, depends on how look at it:(view spoiler)[The beginning: the farmer-slash-gardener (bonus: he also has an English degree) is your reincarnated 17th century boyfriend.
You're welcome.The middle: the rich titled dude is not your dead 17th century boyfriend.
You get the farmer this time.
(hide spoiler)]I know that Mariana is loved by a lot of Kearsley fans, but it didn't impress me much.
Uma história que começa com uma atracção de Julia em criança por uma casa que vê através da janela do carro num passeio com os pais.
Mariana.Temos uma linda história de amor tanto no presente como no passado.
em ensinamento que serve de lição tanto no amor como na amizade, como na VIDA.Há uma frase no livro, o principezinho, que eu a trago sempre na memória e que acho ser a mais adequada para descrever este livro e é ela:"É muito simples: só se vê bem com o coração.
In a small village outside of London, Julia Beckett buys Greywethers, a 300 year old farm house that she has been in love with since she was five years old.
Mysteriously, Julia feels a connection to the house which guides her to relive her previous life as Mariana, who lived 300 years before at Greywethers.
With the support of one of her warm and friendly new neighbors, Mrs. Hutchinson, she gradually regresses to her life as Mariana.
She enjoys a warm connection with his sister and she becomes her best friend She also deals with a past love and a present one and senses they are connected.
I loved this book, a beautiful read.
One of my absolute favourites.When Julia Beckett first sees Greywethers house as a young child she knows there is something very special about it but it's not until she's an adult and a successful illustrator of children's books that she gets the opportunity to buy it.
Mariana is one of the best books I have read in a while- it had all the things I love in a story and then some.........
Looking forward to reading more of this authors books in the future.
I didn't expect to enjoy this, but this was a surprising read. 1 star off for the ending, what the heck...
É um livro bastante gráfico visualmente, que nos apresenta mundos fantásticos, desde casas tremendamente ricas do ponto de vista histórico, até ao modo como nos são apresentados jardins, com inúmeras flores e plantas, que muitas, tenho de admitir, desconhecia, que são uma delícia para os sentidos do leitor.Quando Júlia tem pela primeira vez uma visão do passado de Mariana, somos apanhados algo de surpresa porque a mudança é algo brusca, contudo é uma questão de tempo até nos habituarmos a estas visões e a ansiarmos para que se voltem a repetir, para que possamos novamente visitar aquela terra, no século XVII e os seus habitantes.Mariana e Júlia são duas pessoas completamente diferentes.
This is the first book by Susanna Kearsley that I have read and I have to say that I really enjoyed it.The story is a potent mix of history, romance and past-life regression set across two different time-periods, 20th century England and 17th century England.
Mariana's side of the story provides much of the drama of the plot and I found myself wishing that more time could have been spent with her and the dashing Richard de Mornay (a very attractive character it has to be said) rather than with her modern counterpart Julia.
This was such a beautifully written novel and at times it felt reminiscent of Daphne du Maurier's writing as Kearsley does a masterful job of depicting her setting to such vivid detail that not only does it leave nothing to the imagination, but you actually feel like you've been catapulted into the storyline and are walking alongside the characters experiencing their journey.I bought the book a while ago, and I finally got around to reading it as it came highly recommended by a fellow trusted reader… ahem…ahem… Hannahr, and to be honest, I became downright curious what all the hype was about reading stories that revolve around old houses and quaint cottages.
There's just the right mix of history, romance, mysterious ghostliness, and an ephemeral sense of times past and present.
Even though the format of Kearsley's books remain similar to each other with the time-slip discovery narrative, the situations that are explored in both time periods are still unique.
Both time periods could have used - something - more to make them more compelling.
And the present-day romance was not as good as it could have been, and not well tied into the earlier timeline.
Still, it did hit that spot with the dreamy, ghostly echoes of the past trying to make itself heard in the present.
