https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/413110.More_Scary_Stories_to_Tell_in_the_Dark
This book is featured on Halloween Reads for Children @ https://readrantrockandroll.com/2017/...Here's another scary story collection that’s perfect for this time of year.
Some of these are downright horrifying, but so much fun.A few of our favorites are: Something was Wrong, The Cat’s Paw, Ba-Rooom!, which includes the simple sheet music we enjoy playing on the piano, Wonderful Sausage, and One Sunday Morning.One of my favorite sections in the book contains the sources which explain the tales, adaptations, retellings and even different variations.
Some even have a little history with them which explains where these tales were heard and when.
Love, love, love the illustrations! Haunting and creepy mixed with gorgeous!
The Scary Stories series by Alvin Schwartz was a favorite of my oldest son when he was younger.
We talked about what made a story scary, how to tell a great ghost story and the basics of acting and public speaking.
My son is now almost 30 years old and he still remembers these books.
As my son is stationed thousands of miles away in Japan and I haven't 'seen him in two years, I can think fondly of him as I read these books that he so thoughtfully brought to me before he left home.
More Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark is the second book in the series.
4.5 stars  SCARY STORIES PART TWO! After reading the first book “Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark,” I just had to read up on the sequel, “More Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark,” which is also written by Alvin Schwartz along with illustrations by Stephen Gammell. “More Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark” is a continuation of the first book and we are introduced to more spine-tingling tales from this fantastic series as you will definitely be sitting on the edge of your seats after you read this
Unfortunately, the lid of the trunk dropped on the daughter and locked her inside the trunk and everyone at the wedding ceremony did not even know that she is missing!Once again, I was blown away by this collection of scary stories from the creative retellings of Alvin Schwartz!
I enjoyed most of the stories in this collection, but my most favorite stories would have to be “The Bride,” “The Little Black Dog,” “One Sunday Morning,” “Wonderful Sausage” and “The Cat in a Shopping Bag.” Stephen Gammell’s illustrations are as usual, eerily and brilliantly done as the artwork is truly frightening to look at and the black and white colorings of the illustrations really bring out the creepy feel to the stories.
I found a copy online.This was fun - a collection of creepy urban legends from the US. It was largely spoilt for me because I knew, or could guess, the punchline from most.To get the most out of these stories, they have to be told around a campfire in the night. If the story teller is skilled, he/ she can frighten the hell out of people.
4/5Although the stories are very tame, the illustrations are gorgeous, and the strong wave of nostaligia made this an awesome reread.
Terrific illustrations once again. The stories weren’t nearly as good as the first volume but I still remember reading this one quite often as a kid.
Una antología de cuentos de terror, que no me estremecieron para nada.
Las ilustraciones que acompañan al texto están increíbles y el sustento de leyenda y contextos culturales que acompañan a los cuentos son aceptables.
Además de que el vocabulario es bastante sencillo para comprender las historias.
Si tienes niños entre 4 a 6 años y quieren estos que les cuentes un cuento de terror para ir a dormir, este libro es el indicado, ya que satisfaces su curiosas de fantasmas, sin llegar a perturbarlos.
When I was a child, I used to love reading Alvin Schwartz's scary story books!
There was nothing more fun than going to the library during the summer and getting my fix of creepy stories and macabre artwork by Stephen Gammell.
While written for children, the stories definitely gave me a few chills as an adult.
Yet, there is nothing quite like the way that Alvin Schwartz tells them.This is definitely a book I'd recommend picking up for children who love scary stories, or for those of us who loved these stories as a child!
2.5Pues que puedo decir, son historias sencillas que no dan nada de miedo, un libro que podría funcionar más a lo infantil, algunas historias me parecieron tan aburridas y absurdas que no me ocasionaron nada, algunas otras me dieron risa y algunas si, me gustaron, un libro sencillo para leer una historia de vez en cuando tal vez, corto y rápido de leer.Si les gusta lo de terror, definitivamente no lo lean.
These are wonderful.
This book (and the other books in the "Scary Stories" series) had a huge influence on me as a child. May future generations of children also be influenced by the "Scary Stories" books!!
I still love these books.
They're still pretty spooky, because the stories are archetypal.
Some things are always scary.
For the target audience, this will likely be their first exposure to most of these archetypes.
And nostalgia helps those of us who read these years ago.
The stories are nice and short, perfect for telling around a campfire or at a sleepover.The original art by Stephen Gammell is horrible and I love it.
The newest edition has replaced the art with art by Brett Helquist, which is creepy but not nearly as nightmare inducing as the original.
I used to LOVE these books when I was a kid. They seem kind of silly when I reread them as an adult but as a child I remember being terrified by some of the stories and illustrations in here.
now most sequels lack something that the first had but that is not the case with this wonderful 2nd installment in scary stories to tell in the dark. it has a set of old timey scary stories as well as new and interesting things to look up :)just reread this series again last monday and i still adore this series.
I rated this book a 4 out of 5 as a whole. This book is the second book by this scary story collector. The book is a collection of “scary” stories. I really enjoy these types of stories, the ones that make you want to read more into the story. This collection had quite a few of those, though there were a few story’s that made me wonder why they were included. All in all a fun and quick read.
I would also read these stories to my little brother.
I recently re-read these three books.
My favorite story from this book is called "The Bed By The Window." This story is about a few men who are in a nursing home.
In the room Ted, George and Richard share, there is only one window.
Ted's bed was next to the window, until he died.
George would always describe in detail to Richard what he saw outside the window.
I will continue to read these stories in the future and I would love to share them with anyone and everyone.
I loved scary stories as a kid.
I entered some kind of "kid author/illustrator" contest in 4th or 5th grade, and I won!
I remember that the highlight of winning included meeting awesome author Gary Paulsen and illustrator Stephen Gammell.
Stephen Gammell, in my memory, was super amazing, and even created a creepy watercolor painting during the seminar.
I also happened to love Alvin Schwartz's book  In a Dark, Dark Room and Other Scary Stories , who also wrote this book!
I love these scary Americana folk tale stories, and am crazy for the watercolor or pen & ink drawings by Gammell.
Horror stories are always and will always be part of anyone ones child hood.
This book written by Mr.Alvin Schwartz has been part of my childhood.
I remember first reading this book, when I was in elementary school.
And I know I wasn't just the only kid who grew up and still remembers this book and the other two books in the series.
More Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark, along with the other two, are a great read for old, young, and those in between.
I really recommend this book.
Especially if you like scary stories.
As in the first volume, the storytelling skills of Alvin Schwartz and the eerie drawings of the more than capable Stephen Gammell come together in the telling of these incredibly scary folk tales.
For some reason, "Wonderful Sausage" has always caught my fascination, though the story itself is chillingly brutal.
"Oh, Susannah" has always been one of the scariest stories of any in the Alvin Schwartz collections that I have read, and more than once I found myself truly getting cold with goosebumps as I read through this collection.
Meticulously researched, well told, and one of the scariest books of its type out there, "More Scary Stories To Tell in the Dark" is an exceptional book.
My sister and I loved these when we were little - the stories were generic urban myths but it was the disturbing and eerie illustrations that made this anthology series so memorable, the stark black and white with hints of bright red and blue to evoke the chilling atmosphere.
All the Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark books are wonderful. The stories are really scary while at the same time being written for kids, the drawings are really scary, and these books are some of my best memories of being a kid.
This is a collection of spooky short stories.
There are a lot so I'm not going to rate each of them but rather choose my favorites and give my overall impression of this book.
While I realize this is a book of adapted spooky legends and lore for others to possibly tell to others, most of the stories seemed really short and abrupt.
Most were no longer than a page and I tend to like stories that are least a few pages long.Overall I enjoyed the collection and these are my favorites: The Little Black Dog, The Bride, Wonderful Sausage, The Man in the Middle, The Cat in a Shopping Bag, Cemetery Soup, and The Brown Suit.Aside from the length, I enjoyed the content of the stories.
Historically this has always been my least favourite of the three story collections. I still love them and reminiscing about my childhood and how much I was obsessed with these stories. I remember some so vividly that I must have read them dozens of times, and some I don’t recall at all.
More good stuff. I liked this one even better than the first.
Me lo leí en una tarde. Me ha gustado más que la primera parte. He disfrutado de este libro más de lo que esperaba.
Wow, talk about trauma.One appalling day about two-odd years ago, my sister and I stood utterly frozen in the bookstore in a godawful hive-minded fury (i.e., what my sister defines not as angry but as "shangry plus") when we saw that they had dared to re-release this trilogy WITHOUT THE ORIGINAL STEPHEN GAMMELL ILLUSTRATIONS.
We clung to each other and wept for the fate of unsuspecting newbies, innocently picking up this new release and never fated to understand the awesomeness that was these books.I still own my original copies of this trilogy.
As a kid I remembered reading the first book of this series and of course all of the stories scarred me at night.
I never read the second book out of the series though, which is this book, and I personally enjoyed it a lot.
The style of the book was the same old one to four page scary story and some of them were actually pretty good; even reading them now.
I would recommend this book to anyone who likes a good scare, or someone who just likes creepy things in general.
I would not recommend this book to children under 12 though because some of the stories pretty creepy.
Alvin Schwartz is a great storyteller who has teamed up with a very talented, and possibly demented, illustrator named Stephen Gammell.
I found this book, More Scary Stories, (appropriately so) in the attic and instantly remembered a handful of tales that thrilled me as a child.
These stories, along with their grotesque illustrations, are dark and chilling.
They are perfect for when that Halloween mood hits, and you're feeling mysterious and terrifying.
They are gems of haunting stories and songs that are easy to read and full of imagery.
Some are humorous to lighten up the mood while others are more scream-tastic.
More Scary stories to tell in the darkThe book “ More scary stories to tell in the dark” is a good book.
I recomend this book to anyone who wants to have a scary or spookynight, or just to anyone who likes creepy/scary stories.
Out of the many creepy stories my favorite was “the bride’’ I liked that storie because it was very fun to try and figure out what would happen next.
As I said if you like some pooky/ scary stories you should read this book.
