https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1715806.The_Sumerians
Recently, when I was reading a book of women poets, I learned that Princess En-khedu-anna of Sumer, a priestess and poet, (briefly mentioned in Woolley's book) has been accredited as the first author we know by name.
So obviously Sumer has a unique fascination as a root for human civilization.
So, although I was at times frustrated not to have a more current book, still I think worth a read if you're interested in this ancient civilization, and this did whet my appetite for more.
Did I mention that Gilgamesh was a Sumerian epic?The Sumerians arise in the mists of "The Beginning." For Western Archaeology, when we speak of the "cradles" of civilization, we're speaking about the rise of writing, cities, agriculture, that which we know about, in the so-called fertile crescent running from the valley of the Nile, to the valleys of the Tigris and Euphrates to the head of the Persian Gulf in the 3rd millennia BCE.
This great human treasure had been totally forgotten and the existence of the civilization was only discovered within the last century.
As I read this book, however, I reflected on the archeology of neo lithic cities like Jericho (maybe 10,000 BC) and Catal Huyuk in Turkey (8000 BC).
This led to a need for trade and the Sumerians had trade colonies in Anatolia, the Levant, and the Zagaros mountains.
As Semitic peoples moved into the rich area of civilization, they adopted the writing and institutions of Ur and other Sumerian cities, and eventually extinguished them, but not their culture.
Woolley's classic book on Sumer is a great read.
There are those who would criticize his juxtaposition of Sumer vs Akkad in terms of race, but this fits well with the understanding at the time.
And besides, critics today seem to see everything through the lens of race in a way that is not unlike those of past times.We are indebted to this great archaeologist for his contributions.
I look forward to reading much more on the subject, and perhaps I will then have a greater understanding of his place in this work.
This is 'old school' history. Lots of pottery shards and king lists from which some surprisingly inventive narrative is constructed. I'd like to find a more recent book on the subject and compare. Still, trying to explore the world of so long ago is a fascinating task.
An engrossing introduction despite the book's age. Or maybe because of it, as Woolley's preoccupations also say much about his own era. Clearly written and as good a starting point as any for newcomers to ancient Near Eastern history.
Fascinating! I want to learn more about this amazing civilization!
The idea has been entirely exploded.
Good book. Very comprehensive. Easy read. Apparently the author is very well regarded. There is the occasional use of language that dates the book a bit, but not a big deal.
Write a review...
