https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3398625-the-lost-city-of-z
We don’t need to SAVE the rainforest.
I knew that the Amazon was a hostile environment, but I was really shocked at the variety of horrific ways that the jungle will kill a person.
Sure, the mosquitoes spread disease, but there’s also a variety of maggot that will infect living tissue.
Avoid the animals, the disease, the bugs, injury, and starving to death, and you’re still screwed when hostile natives catch you, eat you and use your skull as their favorite coffee mug.To hell with the Amazon.
In 1925, Percy Harrison Fawcett, armed with information only he had unearthed, accompanied by his son, his son’s best friend and a small company of bearers and support personnel, headed off into the Amazonian wilderness in search of a large, ancient, fabled city, the City of Z.
There were many attempts by later explorers of varying levels of expertise to find Fawcett, or at least to learn definitively of his fate.
Professional writer David Grann joins that horde, armed with little or no experience as an outdoorsman and having his athletic prowess honed by years as a subway-riding resident of Brooklyn.
”How easily the Amazon can deceive.It begins as barely a rivulet, this, the mightiest river in the world, mightier than the Nile and the Ganges, mightier than the Mississippi and all the rivers in China. Over eighteen thousand feet high in the Andes, amid snow and clouds, it emerges through a rocky seam--a trickle of crystal water.”By the time it reaches the ocean, the estuary of the Amazon river at the mouth is 202 miles wide. A trickle becomes one of the mightiest forces on the planet.    Colo
Colonel Percy Fawcett, the legend that launched a thousand explorers.Candice Millard, in her book about Theodore Roosevelt’s trip through the Amazon, summed it up nicely: ”The rainforest was not a garden of easy abundance, but precisely the opposite.
There are as many visions of what El Dorado looks like as there are explorers to look for it.On his final journey to the Amazon in 1925, Fawcett was determined to finally find El Dorado, or the City of Z as he liked to call it, but he…disappeared without a trace.
America beckoned.Fawcett believed in small parties rather than large, heavily armed parties for exploring the Amazon.
Unfortunately the party never returned and over the years countless perished trying to find evidence of the party and the place they called “The Lost City of Z.” In this book David Grann traces their steps.I really enjoyed this non fiction read about Percy Fawcett and his obsession and adventures in the Amazon.
I think readers who like non fiction and adventure and history will really enjoy this book.I listened to this one on audio and the nattation was excellent but as always with audio I cant help wondering if the hard copy had photos and maps which I would have missed out on in the audio.
Reading this book helped clarify one of my life goals, which is TO NEVER GET STRANDED IN THE AMAZON JUNGLE.Seriously, that place would kill me.
Grann himself became a bit obsessed with the Amazon, hoping to discover what happened to the British explorer Percy Fawcett, who went missing in the Amazon in 1925.
Fawcett had been searching for an ancient civilization, nicknamed Z, and after he disappeared, dozens of people also went into the Amazon trying to find him and the lost city.
I really enjoyed reading it (even though descriptions of the jungle are terrifying) and I'm looking forward to watching the movie that is based on this book.
It was almost like a game to them, a great race to see who could get there first, be it the depths of the jungle or the arctic pole.Author David Grann juggles these stories well, never dropping the main story, at least no more than necessary to incorporate the interesting details from these off-shoot tales that help the reader to better understand the mindset of the times or to underscore the perils of such treks into the unknown.In the process of putting this book together, tracking Fawcett became Grann's adventure.
That's how good this book is.The author sets forth the story of Colonel Percy Harrison Fawcett, a British explorer who in 1925 set out on an expedition to the Amazon to find what he had named the "lost city of Z." He was convinced that an ancient and "highly cultured" people lived in the Amazon of Brazil, untouched by modern civilization, and that they lived in a great city in a valley somewhere.
Their disappearance, and the publicity following the mission from which they never returned, prompted years worth of explorers trying to locate any trace of Fawcett, his son, and his son's friend, even as late as 1996.
Calculated or not, it's a great thing to see the filmed entertainment industry gain a player that mines the immense vein of unadapted written work instead of churning out sequels and comic book heroes and the occasional bland screensaver-level movie.But...having Prime-watched it...it is a disappointing film, and I was so hoping for something outstanding.
But the damned film isn't anything like as effective as the book!
I am not, as you who read my reviews regularly are aware, a knee-jerk book's better boy.
And while Fawcett was certainly no gold hunter, his mounting obsession with the lost city of "Z" had me truly wondering just what could be out in that dense and surprisingly delicate land of life.
I highly recommend this book for fans of "Indiana Jones," early 20th century history stories, and just those tired of sitting on their lounger at home and wondering whether or not they should drop everything and run off into the jungle.
Too many details, too many names, too many stories, too much repetition (I get it, the AMAZON is incredibly dangerous).
I will admit after trudging through the back story, the intensity took off and my interest was held until the end.
Unfortunately, more than half the book had been begrudgingly read by then.
Apparently, there is a PBS special on Fawcett and this last expedition and I wouldn't mind watching it based on reading this book so evidently it wasn't a total loss.
Hate to be sexist but it seems that men enjoyed this book more than women.
Part biography, of renowned British explorer Percy Fawcett and part autobiographical travelogue interspersed with bits of history of myriad obsessive attempts across centuries to explore and reveal the location of the legendary city of El DoradoThe description of Fawcett's expeditions felt harrowing and blood-curling at times, them being plagued by incessant deadly mosquitoes, fleas, poisonous snakes & plants, bodies being invaded by maggots, vampire bats, pirhanas and not to forget the indi

I wish this book would have been fiction so the reader would find out the ending. It seems to me that the story begins over and over but there is no closure.
https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7...The narrative in River of Doubt was more focused than this novel, but Millard was talking about one trip, not multiple trips or explorers.There's a lot of weird stuff that goes on in the jungle.
Seriously though, as noted in my review of Candice Millard's The River of Doubt: Theodore Roosevelt's Darkest Journey, and further evidenced in reading this tale, the jungle is a punishing, dangerous place.
As per usual, I'll refer to Sterling Archer for wisdom (see River of Doubt review), "Everything out here either wants to eat me or give me malaria!"*The hunt for the 
follows the footsteps of professional explorer and part-time crazy person, Percy Fawcett (below, in an image which also suggests he may have been a Sherlock Holmes cos-play enthusiast), who went down jungle-yonder in search of the real-world, lost civilization equivalent of El Dorado.
What a great read.
For really the first time I understood the fascination with the phrase 'armchair traveller.' In other circumstances, I always thought it was somewhat absurd to think that reading about a thing was as fun as doing it.
At its heart, this is a story of the search for a magnificent civilization in the heart of the Amazon, with vast earthworks paralleled only by great cities on the European continent.
This is a book to make you think about what man is: his determination, his understanding, his folly, his ego, and how some of us have these things in greater measure than others.
A great non-fiction account of British explorer Percy Fawcett and he’s attempt to find what he believed to be lost city in the Amazon during 1925.Journalist David Grann try’s to piece together Fawcett journey.I wasn’t aware of this story until the movie adaptation, it was such a fascinating read. It gave a real sense of what the conditions would have been like for Fawcett.
THE LOST CITY OF "Z" is an amazing adventure in the Amazon jungle. It also chronicles the history of Amazon exploration and various attempts to discover a "lost city." David Grann is a superb writer and I enjoyed this book immensely.
The Lost City of Z by David Grann is exceptional book that I can altogether recommend to every variety of reader.
This well-rendered and deeply researched biography of Percy Fawcett, centers on his all consuming obsession with the Lost City of Z (evidence of a great but forgotten jungle civilization), the international fever that follows his mysterious disappearance and some of the more exciting tidbits of Grann’s journey to piece together Fawcett’s tale.
Not only is this a astonishing biography, it’s also a fantastic adventure story.
Flash forward to modern times, and New Yorker writer David Grann also goes to the Amazon jungle in search of evidence of Fawcett's fate.
This is a non-fiction account of the history of exploration in the Amazon jungle, the story of Fawcett's life and treks around the world, the fate of other explorers of the time, facts about his son and friend that went along on the 1925 trip, and the aftermath of the disappearance.
There is also an accounting of David Grann's trip to the Amazon to glean facts about the fate of Fawcett, the local indigenous peoples and how the area has changed since the 1920s.
Grann chose well in his subject as Fawcett’s obsession over a hidden city in the Amazon is compulsively readable.
This is a superbly researched and probably hella accurate book, but I’m not pulled in by tidbits unveiling whose journal documented Fawcett’s journey, I just want to read about the journey.
Despite the fact that this book caused me to struggle with my relationship to nonfiction, I was rather taken with the concept.
In fact, I think if I had listened to this book rather than read it, I’d be all over it.
Fawcett was a man of his time in many bad ways but achieved a kind of doublethink morality that let him treat the locals as human (using radical tactics like 'not shooting them on sight' and 'learning their language' and 'grasping that enslavement and genocide had rather put the survivors off Europeans') and he became convinced that great ancient civilisations had existed in this insanely hostile dangerous 'green hell', as Europeans called it while flocking there for adventure or profit and dying in swathes.
Another superb book from David Grann. I read this after reading his later Killers of the Flower Moon.Grann researches, and then replicates, Amazon explorers' efforts to find the El Dorado (or "Z") of the Amazon. As in KFM, he focuses on the story of one individual, Colonel Percy Harrison Fawcett, and his extensive efforts.We take satellite pictures and maps of the world for granted, but Grann shows so much of the world remained unmapped until the 1900s, and that the Royal Geographic Society supported scientific efforts to do so.A stellar and exciting nonfiction read with a great twist ending.
That book, referenced here a mere four pages from the end of his narrative at page 273, is Heckenberger’s own work called  The Ecology of Power and has been described by archaeologists and geographers (as related by David Grann) as “extraordinary,” “monumental,” “transformative,” and “earth-shattering,” which sounds worthy of at least a browse.Perhaps..., perhaps really you’re a fan of quirky travel, adventure, and outdoorsy exotica of the type to be found in  Douglas Adams’ amusing  Last Chance to See or  Jon Krakauer’s harrowing exposes of human folly and hubris  Into the Wild or  Into Thin Air and hoping to find here a biography of intrepid Edwardian explorer Fawcett that will match  Adam Hochschild’s telling of Lord Stanley’s disturbing exploits in the Belgian Congo in  King Leopold’s Ghost.
His fame for several expeditions between 1905 and 1915 skyrocketed to nearly Airhart proportions when he disappeared with his son and his friend on a 1925 journey into the vast Mato Grosso wilderness of Brazil in search the ruins of an ancient civilization Fawcett codes as the "Lost City of Z." Rumors of a lost civilization and clues to its general location was what was driving him, not unlike the quest since the time of the Conquistadors for a gold rich El Dorado.
Grann deftly charts the origins of Fawcett's character from his Victorian family upbringing, the worship of antecedent explorers like Burton, and an early experience looking for ruins in Ceylon while in the colonial army.
And the manly men I admire, the adventure-loving ones, they all seem to die.
Maybe I'm not, after all, the type of manly man with a waxed mustache and stylish but functional dungarees and an unquenchable thirst for danger and adventure, alone and with diminishing hope of survival.
I think I'm the type of manly man who will enjoy the small adventures of hikes in the park (jungle) with my child; bike rides around the block (in hot pursuit of stolen jewels); climbing our backyard elm tree (Mount Everest).Maybe the world still has some magic left in it, after all.
I am really appreciative to Grann for being honest about the limitations of Fawcett, his attempts to break out of his cultural racism, but also how he couldnt quite move away from that limitation, and also for writing about the horrors both of the rubberwars and then WWI.The part I actually liked the most acme right at the end when he discussed the modern archaeology of the Amazon and how its blowing established minds on the subject.
I would have definitely liked if Grann had included more information about the struggles of archaeology in the region, but felt that he did what he could without getting too off topic since his book IS about Fawcett.Overall a good read that I would definitely recommend.
He set out in 1921 and again in 1925 to find it, only to disappear in the attempt.What a story!Which is exactly why David Grann sets out to tell Fawcett's tale of obsession in The Lost City of Z.To his credit, Grann has a great eye for details, describing the horrors of the jungle, the arrogance with which the Royal Geographical Society viewed the Amazonian Indians, and the preparations needed to plan an expedition.
This is kind of an odd accomplishment: an adventure book that will make you really really glad your not an adventurer.
Grann's descriptions of Fawcett et al trampling through the amazonian rainforest with their crass, (often racist) imperialist delusions of grandeur and discovery are often gut-wrenching.
Trekking through unspoiled tropical jungles is utterly horrifying, you basically just turn yourself into an oozing, walking meal and wait for the rainforest to literally devour you.
Grann remains fairly non-judgmental through out.
After all, it's the green hell of the jungle itself which finally breaks down and destroys hubris and good intentions alike.
So today I bring ye:the lost city of z: a tale of deadly obsession in the amazon (David Grann)This pirate Captain has a slight obsession with exploration, treasure, and secrets.
Percy was a “British geographer, artillery officer, cartographer, archaeologist and explorer of South America.” He became obsessed with finding a lost city in the jungles of Amazon.
Author David Grann was determined to solve the centuries old case.Like the book about Antarctic explorers, this tale was full of details about the lengths to which these men would go to protect “their” finds and their fame.
Percy Harrison Fawcett (1867 – 1925?) Books To Read Before The Movie Comes Out (Rest of 2016/Early 2017) O subtítulo ”Uma História de Obsessão Mortal Passada na Amazónia” conjuga e sintetiza de uma forma primorosa a temática do livro de David Grann (n. 1967) ”A Cidade Perdida de Z”.”A Cidade Perdida de Z” é um livro de não-ficção – lê-se como um romance de aventuras – que se centra na vida do explorador inglês Percy Harrison Fawcett (1867 – 1925?) e na região da Amazónia.A Amazónia permanece com
1967) ”A Cidade Perdida de Z”.”A Cidade Perdida de Z” é um livro de não-ficção – lê-se como um romance de aventuras – que se centra na vida do explorador inglês Percy Harrison Fawcett (1867 – 1925?) e na região da Amazónia.A Amazónia permanece como um dos locais mais fascinantes e emblemáticos do planeta Terra, abrangendo mais de cinco milhões e quinhentos mil quilómetros quadrados com cerca de 60% da área no Brasil, 13% no Perú e com partes menores na Colômbia, Venezuela, Equador, Bolívia, Guiana, Suriname e Guiana Francesa (França).
