https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/848878.Second_Form_at_Malory_Towers
There are new girls as always, the very pretty and rich Daphne who Gwendolen and Mary Lou both admire, scholarship student Ellen who starts off her stint at Malory Towers well enough but begins to turn sullen and snappy, as the term progresses, and drawing whiz Belinda Morris, who is as scatterbrained as Irene.
This was a fairly enjoyable instalment in the series—with pretty much the ordinary happenings of school life, not only events but also personal issues like Alicia’s anger over Sally being chosen over her (in Malory Towers, it is the form mistress who chooses the head), Ellen’s insecurities, and the girls’ friendships.
Three new girls join the second form Ellen a scholarship girl, Daphne and Belinda who draws caricatures.Sally is voted head of North Tower and Gwendoline makes a beeline for Daphne because she is from a well off family.
However the Headmistress knows a secret about Daphne and she might not be what she seems.Ellen is bad tempered and hard to talk to who is behind the recent thefts at school?I enjoyed the second year at Mallory Towers, I don't know if the book has been changed because it is not particularly old fashioned as most of Enid Blytons books are.
My favourite Enid Blyton series. I adore these and I’m determined to get any kids I know to read and love these.
I don't know how much of that is because it's something my parents value, and how much is from multiple sources- including examples of Darrell and Sally being sensible versus the wretched, crying Gwendoline Mary- but it's so refreshing to read this positioned quite firmly as a positive thing, something to aspire to.
I also like how much Blyton emphasised working hard at school, almost as much as she rewards cleverness and intelligence- Irene, for example, is brilliant at maths (again, something quite rare these days) and the girls are in awe of her for it rather than treating her badly for her skills.
I really love all the characters in this book, from timid little Mary Lou to conceited Gwendalyn. I also enjoy Darrell's character development.
Hmmm - looks like Goodreads have done an update - star rating not showing!5 stars for a childhood favourite - loved it.
While this story (the second in a series of six books) is rather formulaic, I was pleasantly surprised by its psychological mindedness, and I must say I most enjoyed the girls when they were behaving somewhat badly rather than being perfect.
I’m looking forward to the other four books in this series.
While this isn’t the boarding school of my childhood dreams, I do have fun reading these; I’m sure I’d have been a huge fan if I’d read them when I was 9 or 10 or 11.
Foi uma boa leitura, adorei as novas personagens e as interações entre elas.
A trip back to my childhood. I grew up reading every Enid Blyton that I could find. This was one of my favourite series!
Pada tahun ini, ada tiga anak baru yang bergabung dengan mereka, Ellen siswa beasiswa, Belinda yang pintar menggambar, dan Daphne si anak cantik yang juga kaya raya.Fokus pada novel ini juga pada mereka bertiga bagaimana mereka menyesuaikan diri di Malory Towers.
Saya pikir akan ada editor baru yang akan mereview dan melakukan penyesuaian tata bahasa sebelum diterbikan kembali tetapi ternyata sepertinya buku ini diterbitkan sama seperti edisi di tahun 90-an dulu.
Contoh: pada buku pertama ada penjelasan tentang semester dengan caturwulan yang digunakan dalam kurikulum sekolah di Indonesia, padahal caturwulan pun sudah diganti dengan semester dari akhir tahun 90an atau 2000 awal dulu.
So many things happened ! I really like this series ! I really like all the characters even gwen ! I love how this story is all about the power of redemption and courage , I wish that more stories nowadays were written with the same amount of love ! This story definitely has a life if it's own ! It's still relatable even to today's standards!
Hanya 240 halaman tapi cerita Enid seru dan kaya. Banyak tokoh dengan karakter uniknya, yg membuat mereka berbeda dengan yg lain. Isu isu yg diangkat dalam cerita ini sangat relevan dengan kehidupan sekolah pada umumnya.
Deze boeken zijn gewoon zo heerlijk dramatisch, haha
Finally, I read the original version of the book (read: not translation one)And yes, I enjoyed it. Enid Blyton has interesting way to tell story, and it's easy to read.Cannot wait to read the next one.
Pero como ocurre en todos los colegios y escuelas del mundo, en este grado también hay compañeras nuevas: Daphne, Belinda y Elena.Un nuevo curso comienza en Torres de Malory!!En este segundo tomo se puede apreciar un crecimiento en algunas de las niñas, a pesar de que a alguna me daban ganas de zamarrear, tarde o temprano el lado bueno siempre afloró.
Puedo entender que para algunos releerlos de adultos puede resultar aburrido o infantil, pero es que es tan lindo recorrer Torres de Malory :D y ya me encariñe con las chicas, inclusive con la querida Gwendoline Mary :D todas aportan cosas muy interesantes a la trama.
Nah, di buku ini diceritakan bahwa sikap seperti itu karena orang tua Gwen yang tidak kuat, khususnya ibunya.
Ibu Gwen dan juga guru pribadinya selalu menangis tersedu-sedu saat Gwen perlu kembali ke sekolah asrama.
Dari buku ini saya mengambil pelajaran bahwa ternyata, ibu sangat berperan ya untuk kepribadian seorang anak.
Ibu perlu kuat untuk melepas anak sekolah di asrama, dengan tidak banyak menangis.
Abi saya bilang, kalau orang tua tentu berat meninggalkan anak tinggal jauh di asrama, namun apa boleh buat, demi pendidikan masing-masing dari kita perlu kuat, saling mendukung, agar anak mampu belajar dengan baik di asrama.
As a child, I was truly obsessed with this series of books!
When I stumbled across the second book for 49p in a charity shop last week I decided that I had to buy it (as I am now a pretty avid lover of reading compared to when I was younger).
Decided to give the book a read for nostalgic reasons and because the audiobooks are abridged, meaning lots of the little details have been edited out!
I've seriously enjoyed reading this book, and getting to know the characters again and in more depth.
In this book, Ellen wants to keep her academic scholarship to Mallory Towers because her parents can’t afford it so, she tries to cheat on a test that if she does well on, will keep her grades up.
Ellen is terrified she’ll be sent home from the school that she worked so hard to get into.
I think that this book's strengths, were that the author really captured the school from many perspectives.
The books weakness was that sometimes, the author lacked figurative language where there could have been some.
For example, in the phrase,”Both girls laughed” there isn’t any figurative or exciting language.
Dibuku ke 2 ini, Darrell mendapat beberapa teman baru, Daphne, anak bangsawan yang luar biasa cantik tapi sombong, Ellen, anak pindahan dari sekolah lain yang memenangkan beasiswa untuk bersekolah di Malory Towers, dan Belinda, si jenius dalam menggambar, tapi memiliki sifat pelupa yang persis sama seperti Irene.
Sally terpilih menjadi ketua kelas semester ini.
Tapi Alicia jadi cemburu dan selalu bersikap sinis sm Sally, dia menganggap seharusnya dia lah yang menjadi ketua kelas, bukannya Sally.
Adapula cerita tentang perkelahian antara dua guru Prancis Darrell, Madam Dupont dan Madam Rougier yang berdebat saat menentukan peran dalam drama Prancis.
I actually did think that this series was going to be told through the eyes of Darrell, but it’s interesting that it sort of diverts itself around the other characters as well.
I think that’s perhaps why I found it a little bit harder to really get into this series, there wasn’t anyone you could strongly identify with.
Not that this style is at all unusual for Enid Blyton, I just think in this instance, for me, it doesn’t quite work to grip me into the characters and world.The new girls in the form mix things up a little here, and I presume this will kind of be the format for the series as it moves forward.Much like the first book, it was okay reading, but nothing gripping or memorable.
Buku ini menceritakan kisah Darrel ketika ia berada di kelas dua.
Darrel mulai semakin tertarik untuk ikut-ikut ulah Alicia.
Namun kini ia sudah mulai bersahabat dengan Sally.
Disini ia juga mencoba menyelami karakter teman-temannya khususnya yang sekamar dengannya di menara utara.Selain itu dalam buku ini pun banyak anak-anak baru yang langsung masuk di kelas dua.
Ada Ellen yang selalu sibuk belajar namun selalu mendapat nilai jelek.
Juga ada Daphne yang cantik jelita dan sangat disayangi oleh Gwendoline.
Lalu bagaimana Darrel dan kawan-kawan menjalani semester baru yang menyenangkan ini?
Banyak pesan yang bisa diambil (lagi-lagi) dari buku sederhana ini.
Darrel dan kawan-kawan masuk sekolah lagi. Mereka sekarang sudah kelas dua. Dan ada murid-murid baru! Belinda yang pelupa tapi pandai menggambar, Ellen yang pintar tapi ketus, dan Daphne yang cantik tapi menjengkelkan. Seru! Mary Lou yang penakut jadi pinter bahasa Perancis. Alicia nggak lupa dengan lelucon-leluconnya yang khas yang bikin sekolah jadi meriah. Sally jadi ketua kelas, dan ada beberapa konflik juga. Akhirnya banyak juga yang diceritakan tentang murid-murid lain di kelas Darrel. Ada Jean si anak skot, Irene si jenius musik, Emily yang suka menjahit, Violet yang pendiam, dll.Pengen lanjut ke buku tiga, tapi belum punya bukunyaa... :(
My favourite Malory Towers. I love Daphne's story, particularly the dramatic cliff scene. She's a really interesting character and it's a shame she featured so little in subsequent books.Gwendoline Mary is also at her brilliant best here.A true comfort read set in the reassuring world of a traditional English boarding school. Full of jolly sensible girls, no nonsense matrons, japes and jokes, and oozing with old fashioned charm and fun.
Era justo lo que necesitaba para desestresarme en este momento, volver a la infancia con Darrell y sus compañeras de curso, sus profesoras, sus travesuras, sus aprendizajes. Lo he disfrutado muchísimo, incluso más que el primero.Es cierto que hay una cierta moralina en estas aventuras pero, ¿qué hay de malo en enseñar a los niños (en este caso a las niñas) a ser buenas personas? Siempre es un placer volver a leer a Doña Enid Blyton, por algo es todo un clásico infantil.
Rereading these with my 9-year old now (in Jan 2017). This will be a common review for all the books in the series by Enid Blyton.The day-to day activities of Darrel and her friends at their school Malory towers with all their teachers is as fun to read today as it was when I was a teenager. My daughter loves them too :).
And as usual, Malory towers is such an amazing series to read.
Much like the Harry Potter series, we see the lovable Blyton characters grow up each year as they struggle with themselves, with others, with studies, at school but enjoy it all the same!This year, it was Betty and Alicia's invisible chalk improvised by Darrell's "Oy!"New insecurities with new characters...
regular stuff that students and children their age face....The struggle students go through to find a balance between the good and the bad...Could be quite educational to young kids with no pressure at all and light mirth, it is indeed a jovial read!!!
I enjoyed this entire series as a child, but re-reading this now, as an adult, I see the flaws more clearly.
This books focuses on the ten girls in North Tower who are now in the Second Form, however there should be just as many girls in the form in each of the other three towers, but none of them are ever mentioned!
Also, few of the older girls are named, and the second formers seem to spend a lot of their time unsupervised, leading to rather unbelievable incidents.
It still has some good points, and enjoyable bits, but I doubt that I will read it again.
Just as the first one, funny and fresh. I enjoyed the adding of new characters and, moreover, the development of the already existing ones, and how they dealt with the new girls. mrs Blyton made it very right knowing what to keep in each charaters presonality and ha tto developes aas they grew older.Having said all this, i think i enjoyed the first one a little more, but just becaused t focused more in the school stuff, which is what i enjoy the most. Nevertheless, this second volumen does not r
Just as the first one, funny and fresh. I enjoyed the adding of new characters and, moreover, the development of the already existing ones, and how they dealt with the new girls. mrs Blyton made it very right knowing what to keep in each charater´s presonality and ha tto developes aas they grew older.Having said all this, i think i enjoyed the first one a little more, but just becaused t focused more in the school stuff, which is what i enjoy the most. Nevertheless, this second volumen does not run short of school anecdotes.
Continuing my nostalgic binge read of the Malory Towers series!This book has more of the great character development and interweaving plot arcs around them (particularly the new girls) that we saw in the first book, with similar dramatic conclusions. I feel like there is less judgement from the narrator too, there's a kinder feel to the book, unless I'm just getting used to Enid Blyton's writing again!!
I love this series! As soon as I had finished the first book I continued onto the second, desperate to hear more of darrell and her friends. This time, there are three new girls joinning Darrell's year. Ellen, the snappy, short-tempered scolorship girl, the artist Belinda, who causes quite a lot of trouble troughout the term and finally the rich and pretty Daphne.
