https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35356382-the-chalk-man
There are some graphic descriptions of violence in the act and in the aftermath, so those with a sensitive stomach may want to give this a hard pass, but otherwise I can't think of a single reason not to pick this book up if you're a fan of twisty psychological thrillers.I struggle in believing that The Chalk Man is a debut novel for author C.J. Tudor; the writing quality is so excellent you could have told me a seasoned, bestselling author had written this and I would have believed you without question.
It's one of the buzziest books of 2018, it's set in small town England (home!), and yet it was so fricking slow.I've just recently read Harper's Force of Nature and I'm currently starting Anatomy of a Scandal and both of these books are just way more engrossing and thrilling than The Chalk Man. It felt like one of those books where there's a premise and, after that, I sit turning more and more pages, waiting and waiting for something to happen to pull me in, to care, to want to know what's going on...
experiencing things through Eddie's eyes made it difficult to care about anyone.
I was detached from the characters.
I was detached from the whole story.The novel plods along, revealing things that made no impact on me.
My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpress.com/3.5 StarsAfter hearing so many great things about “The Chalk Man” I decided I had to read it.
But then the chalk figures start appearing on their own…2016 - Eddie (Ed) is now forty-two years old.
You’ll have to read the book if you want to find out.­­­­­I find it hard to believe that “The Chalk Man” is C.J. Tudor’s debut novel.
I really wanted to find out how everything was going to come together but I had to stop myself from jumping ahead as I found I almost missed a few things that the author strategically slipped in here and there.
Scenario One: When you meet the gorgeous, charismatic, husband type..Sometimes when you go on a first date, there is an instant connection and you know that this is it.
By the end of the evening, you were trying to think of ways to prolong the date, you didn't want to go home.
You think to yourself, "maybe this will be my last first date I ever have to go on." You meet him..
Then he pulls you in for your first kiss (you didn’t really want to kiss him on the first date)..
You want fireworks.If you are still reading my review, first thank you.
Something that haunts them for the rest of their lives.As kids in 1986, they live life freely: hanging out at the playground, riding bikes, sending coded messages to each other using different colored chalk.
The past haunts him, as it does the rest of the friends who stayed behind, including Gav and Hoppo.
And even if it spells trouble.“The Chalk Men” reads like an old school mystery..
I felt like I was back in the 80’s, living life, hanging out with my friends after school..
everything felt really familiar - well, except for the bad stuff that kept happening to Eddie, Gav, Nikki, Hoppo and Mike.
If more mystery suspense books were written like this one -- I’d read them more often than I do!!!!!ABSOLUTE FAVORITE MYSTERY SUSPENSE novel I’ve read all year!!!!!There is something that feels very different about this book - than other mystery thrillers I’ve read.
I kept thinking about the different characters — I felt like I lived in the small town Anderbury, in Southern England.
( minor ones too) —  I feel that even to describe each of the characters different characteristics- and behaviors are mini spoilers - as I enjoyed learning about them myself - other readers might too....so this is a ‘hold’s back’ review.
Fear of a name increases fear of the thing itself.” ― J.K. Rowling, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's StoneI know it's unusual to start a review by talking about the end of a book, but oh boy what an excellent ending that was!12 year old Eddie Adams and his friends are like any other group of twelve year olds, carefree summer days messing about as kids do, until the day the fair visits the village of Anderbury.
Set in the small town of Anderbury, 4 friends, Eddie 'Munster' Adams, Fat Gav, Metal Mickey, Hoppo and Nicky are 12 years old, whiling away the summer holidays getting into mischief on their bikes, having fun, evolving secret communications through chalk men symbols and in search of excitement and adventure.
The friends receive through the post ominous reminders of their youth with the menacing figure of the Chalk Man. And once again murder takes place, leaving Eddie feeling that he has no choice but return to the past to find out who killed the Waltzer girl, Elisa.Tudor paints a picture of Anderbury, a town with some nasty characters, full of lies, secrets, rumours, seething resentments, violence and hypocrisy.
But as hard as I tried, I just couldn’t connect with this book.
If only the book lived up to my anticipation.
Sorry to say, it didn’t.Very reminiscent of Stand by Me, a coming-of-age themed book based around a group of 12 year-old boys.
I kept waiting for a storyline that would take off but instead remained flat.
I thought...Oh boy, here we go!
and Ahhh, once again I was disappointed.There are some fantastic positive reviews for this book.
So if it’s on your list and you’ve been anxiously waiting, don’t let this review hold you back!
just know you will go on a wonderful adventure with Ed filled with twists and turns and revelations you never will see coming.....In addition to this fantastic mystery filled with these wonderful characters, was the nostalgia of the 1980s....as somebody who spent all of her teenage years in the 80s, I thought the author did such an amazing job of making me long for those good old days....
I didn’t grow up near woods, I never found a dead body, but this book did definitely make me feel a little nostalgic for my childhood....Can’t wait to see what this author has in store for us next!*** thank you to Net Galley and the publisher for a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review ***
Chalk men lurking...I'm sure we all have drawn a chalk man or a chalk girl, but never with the consequences that this young group of kids endure!
A very clever thriller full of seething secrets.
I read the description for this book and I wasn't sure that this would be something I would enjoy, but I was mesmerized by the slow unraveling of this tale!Told from childhood (1986) to present day (2016) by one of the boys, Eddie.
We are told to "beware of the chalk man".
Will the truth be uncovered?Nothing could distract me while reading this book!
REASONS TO LOVE:the titlethe author's biothe author's acknowledgments at end of bookthat perfect coversuspenseful, addictive, spooky storya combination of STRANGER THINGS (Netflix series) and STAND BY ME (80's movie)The only reason I couldn't give all the stars to this very fun book is due to too many co-winky dinks towards the big reveal at the end.
A bit too implausible.I love the 80's vibe of little boys riding around on their bikes getting into all kinds of mischief and seeing things they shouldn't...
HIGHLY RECOMMEND!
thanks to NetGalley, I was able to read and review this book!
“NEVER ASSUME. QUESTION everything. Always look beyond the obvious.”Creepy psychological thriller about a group of teenagers who find a dead body buried in the woods in 1986. While the killer was apprehended, all was not as it seemed.  When they were 12 years old, Eddie, Hoppo, Metal Mickey, Fat Gav, and Nicky were playing in the woods when they notice drawings of chalk men. The drawings lead them to make a gruesome discovery. This event haunts them for the rest of their lives. In 2016,“Chalk M
When they were 12 years old, Eddie, Hoppo, Metal Mickey, Fat Gav, and Nicky were playing in the woods when they notice drawings of chalk men.
Secrets are slowly uncovered and friendships are tested, as Eddie tries to unearth the identity of “The Chalk Man.” This is a well-written, multilayered thriller with an element of mystery that slowly unravels.
The ending worked to undo all I thought I knew, leaving many questions about Eddie’s reliability as a narrator, causing me to question everything and look at the events that unfolded in a different light: 
Or so, at the age of twelve, I still believed.Prepare for some gushing, y’all, because this is one of the best thrillers I’ve read in awhile.
CJ Tudor (a female author) has told a coming of age story of a 12 year old boy surrounded by tragedy and mystery in a highly convincing way, and in a way like nothing I’ve seen before.
The 80’s references were fabulous, the characters were believable, and the whodunnit aspect of the story is like nothing I’ve ever read.
I am having a difficult time putting into words how unique this book is without giving away any spoilery, however I highly, highly recommend this to fans of thrillers.
This was a highly suspenseful, intriguing, creepy and mysterious thriller.This novel caught my attention from the prologue and I found myself growing more attached to this story as I turned each page.
Each character had an element of mystery about them which I really enjoyed.
It was a unique and clever piece of the story.Overall, this was an additive, highly intriguing, suspenseful, fast-paced novel that I would definitely recommend!
J. Tudor for an ARC in exchange for an honest review!Expected Date of Publication: January 9th, 2018.To find this review, along with the other Traveling Sister Read reviews, please visit Brenda and Norma’s fabulous blog at:https://twogirlslostinacouleereading....
I love the way this was told, our narrator now in his fifties, takes us back to a summer that changed everything.
Has sort of a Christmas story or It vibe to it, in the way it is told.
We Tavel back to the eighties, and the author does a great job of portraying this time.
When one of the boys, he a man, who hasn't been seen for over thirty years, reappears in town, claiming he know who done it, everything seems to start up again.An old time mystery, with a follow the clues type of storyline.
Chalk was a mainstay of fun when I was growing up.
We used it for hopscotch and drawings and it could consume us for hours in the hot summer sun.
But, after reading this, you may want to reconsider gifting any child with it.
That fun, messy stuff is now a conduit for murder.
Because the chalk man leaves his chalk drawing after decapitating a girl and using a group of boy's whose medium of communication is chalking but has now become the messenger of death.Written in two timelines that worked well, this had me chasing after my own tail and giving me as much pleasure as a dog would have.
This was a buddy read with my GR Buddy, Crumb :)
Eddie Adams and his friends are in their twelfth summer of wild boyhood and feel the excitement of good-looking girls and the fast carnival rides that hold promise at the town fair.
An unimaginable accident occurs when part of a fast-moving ride breaks loose and careens into seventeen year old Elisa.
Tudor presents her adult characters through the limited lense of twelve year old boys.
From 1986 to 2016 Eddie's voice will lay the groundwork for a very intense storyline filled with the reverberations of childhood slamming head-long into the chunks and pieces of their eventually unstable adult lives.
I give this 4.5 stars.Sometimes you see a bunch of your Goodreads friends raving about a book, and you hope that you'll find it just as good as they did. In the case of C.J. Tudor's terrific debut thriller,  The Chalk Man , that definitely was the case for me."Personally, I have found that it is much better to take your fears, lock them up in a nice, tightly shut box and shove them into the deepest, darkest corner of your mind."In the summer of 1986, Eddie and his four best friends—Hoppo, Fat Ga
When he gets an anonymous letter with a chalk man in it, it dredges up those memories, as does the return of an old friend who had seemingly gone away.
Tudor is a terrific storyteller, and it's so hard to believe this is her debut novel, because the writing is so self-assured.Like with any thriller, I always suspect everyone, and while I was a little surprised at certain twists, and I didn't love every choice Tudor made, I thought this was a great read, one that made me wish I had just a few minutes more to linger over the book every time I picked it up.
I love reading books that creep me out and confuse and shock me and keep me turning pages long into the night because I can’t put it down.I define a thriller as a book that thrills, and by that definition, maybe one in ten “thrillers” I read actually qualify.This one really f*cking doesn’t.This is just The Girl on the Train with a male protagonist who reallyyyy needs to have sex with someone before it turns into a national emergency.Yes. This is just as alcoholism-focused and monotonous and plotless and overwhelmingly British and boring as The Girl on the Train.
Only a few chapters in and I was hooked on Eddie "Munster" Adams and the gang of mischievous 12 year olds who ride bikes around their quaint English village....communicate in secret code....with chalk figures (so cool) to disclose the site of their next rendezvous.The fair was supposed to be fun, and it was at first, but turned out to be the beginning of disastrous times, harmful misadventures and deadly accidents.
Add threatening bullies and a creepy new teacher to the mix and you have one suspenseful and entertaining read that leads the reader from a haunted playground into the nearby woods....for a horror of a find.THE CHALK MAN alternates smoothly from past to present as Eddie and some old friends find out all has not been forgotten or revealed....even 30 years later.
THE CHALK MAN the psychological suspense debut by author C.J. Tudor, I predict is going to be one of the books for 2018…a brilliant piece of fiction, and the BEST THRILLER book I have read now in 2017!
Wonderful story telling at it’s best.In 1986, Eddie and his friends are just kids on the verge of adolescence, and when new teacher Mr. Halloran came to town.
Not lies; simply the truths we don’t tell.”Once I finished the novel, I found myself thinking about my own childhood memories and how they were shaped.
This is one of the best things I can say about a book: I would like to read this one again, and I probably will.
I also read this one in one sitting, and had to remind myself to slow down a little bit to get full enjoyment out of it.
He drinks a bit too much and doesn't have a lot going on in his life...
I was super intrigued by the premise of this book and was determined to get an advanced copy.
I received an advanced review copy of this book from First to Read, thank you!
J. TUDOR that is a chilling, suspenseful, gripping, and a spooky good read that had a sinister feel to it which had me flipping those pages as fast as I could to find out who or what was behind all those mysterious chalk men.
There is a constant sense of foreboding surrounding the whole idea of who or what the mysterious chalk men were or represented which did keep me puzzled and guessing throughout this whole story.The story flips between flashbacks from 1986 and present day of 2016 and I loved the younger voice of our main character, Eddie and really enjoyed how the story was told to us through his childhood eyes.
Metaphoric, symbolic, and absolutely brilliant.The Chalk Man is a creepy and unique thriller that will leave you aching for more!
This thriller packs a good spicy punch my fellow GR friends!
The discovery of a body in the woods leads to many unsettling nightmares, visions, and creepy memories for Eddie and his gang of friends.
Tudor creates a small town boyhood atmosphere that has the strong feel of Stand By Me. Oh my gosh I loved Eddie, Fat Gav, Nicky, Metal Mickey and Hoppo!
What a strong and amazing set of characters that Tudor has created!
2.5 starsIn 1986, Eddie and his 'gang' are typical neighborhood kids. They come up with an idea to leave each other 'codes' in chalk by drawing chalk men to let each other know things but keeping the adults and others out of their business. But someone else discovers their code and leaves chalk drawings that lead the kids to a dismembered body. Told from viewpoints of the 1986 timeline and present day, the story is seen through the eyes of Eddie aka Eddie Munster. In present day Eddie is all gro
2.5 starsIn 1986, Eddie and his 'gang' are typical neighborhood kids.
They come up with an idea to leave each other 'codes' in chalk by drawing chalk men to let each other know things but keeping the adults and others out of their business.
But someone else discovers their code and leaves chalk drawings that lead the kids to a dismembered body.
Told from viewpoints of the 1986 timeline and present day, the story is seen through the eyes of Eddie aka Eddie Munster.
In present day Eddie is all grown up and is pretty much a loner.
I've read much better.
To me it's nothing I have not seen done many times before..and done better.
This is a great thriller!Eddie Munster, Metal Mickey, Fat Gav, Hoppo and Nicky are close friends in 1986, they are twelve years old and go to school together.
They come up with a secret code using chalk and use it to communicate messages, calls to action, meetings and other fun things preteens do at that age.
, maybe because they are preteens and it takes place in the 80s.Overall I enjoyed reading this book and recommend it to all lovers of thrillers, mysteries and contemporary fiction.Thanks to NetGalley, the author C.J. Tudor, and Crown Publishing for providing me with a copy of this publication in exchange for an honest review.
All I can say is, if you feel the same way I did when you first pick up this book, KEEP READING.
So What is the story?In 1986, Eddie and his friends (Fat Gav, Hoppo, "Metal" Mickey, and Nicky) draw chalk men, they use them as their secret code that only they understand.
By going back and forth from childhood to adult hood this book had a "IT" and "Stand by Me" feel to it.
They all seemed to come at just the right time to keep the pages turning and the story moving.
4.5 for this one!A wonderfully written debut! Shock full of nightmares, terror, mystery,and murder.I love the interaction of the group of 12 yr olds we meet from 1986 (reminiscent of the Stand by Me kids).Every other chapter is from 1986, to present day being 2016, with chapter-ending cliffhangers. You will be completely taken in at the first page!Highly recommended!!Many thanks to NetGalley and Crown Publishing for the advanced reading!!
C. J Tudor does a great job here creating some realistic and interesting well-developed characters here with this very cleverly well-written story.
There were a few things going on here with these characters that had us guessing at how they were connected to the mystery of this story.
We also really enjoyed the references to the 80’s within the storyline and loved the gang of kids riding around on their bikes to see what excitement they can get themselves into and it brought back a sense of time for some of us to the days we grew up and gave us a warm feeling.
