https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/632271.Worlds_in_Collision
It makes the the ignorance and mysticism in general populace very evident that they, after failing to understand Science and scientific methods, have embraced the fantasy of pseudo-science which gives them the grandeur and connection with the cosmos which every human seeks.In this book, author claims an explanation of the biblical events of Exodus; which include the Earth standing still, parting of the Red sea, high tides, earthquakes, famine, swarm of vermins and elimination of Egyptian pharaohs; by a divine providence which had caused the ejection of Venus from Jupiter as a comet-like body and making a near-collision with Earth when Mars also happened to be around.
There is little chance that the scientific claims in this book will find anymore favor in the future than in the past...but it's a good read.
You may think it's tripe or you may say wow there could be something to this (though the scientific community would disagree with you) but whatever you think you'll find this an interesting even fascinating read.
There was even a book about it The Velikovsky Affair (which I haven't been able to track down yet).Still as I said, interesting read.
Well my reply to those reviews is as follows....I thought this was an excellently researched book.
The reader has to be clear that Velikovsky was using hundreds of ancient texts, to formulate his theory and put forward as evidence his thoughts.
And realise there is something to what Velikovsky was saying in this work of his.Those that either found it to be boring,or difficult to follow may do well to research more around the genre and texts quoted in his book.
And have completely missed the point of this work!To summarise, Velikovsky eloquently pieces together evidences from hundreds of ancient texts, including the bible.
The first time I read about this book in Vine Deloria's work, I was kind of skeptical about it.
After all, our science is very dogmatic and treated like a religion and stuff is crammed into our heads all our lives as gospel that has no real research or truth behind it, but it's SCIENCE so it's supposedly true.This book actually kind of blew my mind.
I was compelled to read Worlds in Collision as it is the single piece of work that has inspired the work of the electric universe group, something that I follow with much interest.
As I write this review, I must also add that I read Earth in Upheaval as soon as I finished Worlds in Collision.
WIC was so controversial when it was published back in 1950 that Velikovsky wrote Earth in Upheaval to document an entire volume of what he researched to be the physical proofs of his theory in response to the backlash from the scientific community that attempted to have the publication of Worlds in Collision thwarted.
Worlds in Collison is an unusual and controversial book and has been since it was published in the 1950's, Velikovsky was one of the first to challenge mainstream scince with his controversal theories of Catastrophism- or the theory that the Earth has been affected in the past by sudden, short-lived, violent events, possibly worldwide in scope.
But Velikovsky didn't think so- and this book outlines his theory and evidence that the Earth was pummeled by changes in our own solar system in historic times.

Probably yes.This universe of ours is a place of wonder and, in this way, this book deserves a place.The "true scientists" who object to its conjecture must realize that the only thing science can do is guess.
But you won't be hearing about that anytime soon from the mainstream career protectors.As to the actual writing in this book, Mr. Velikovsky obviously feels the burden of proof to his radical propositions and feels compelled to burden the reader with lengthy quotes from ancient texts and myths.
I do understand this, though I would have preferred a succinct book with lengthy footnotes.I guess you're just going to have to read it for yourself!
It is commonly said that "an asteroid killed the dinosaurs." We no longer block out the evidence of modern science and ancient historians.
A fascinating presentation which was a bestseller in 1950, it deserves respect and acknowledgement.ADDITION: This was my favorite read of the year, until October when I was lucky enough to beta-read a book by one of Velikovsky's followers, still unpublished and with only a working title.
WORLDS IN COLLISION remains my favorite Nonfiction Reread of 2012, partly because it propelled me into an exciting sequence of reading about the ancient world.
I first read an excerpt of this book in the Colliers magazine in 1949.
His three major books put new light/ideas onto space, earth and history, making sense of the clues left from all ages.
He was the first (NOT Carl Sagan!!) to predict Venus to be hot, in the age when we still believed it to be similar to earth.
He shows reasons, through the myths and legends of ancient peoples who also tried to make sense of what they saw, why he believed Venus was compared to the moon (we certainly do not think this today)in brightness and also why it is hot(a captured comet).
The last rating here by Vishal below declares it a "science fiction", and clearly shows the vehement cognitive dissonance among most people, just out of shear fear of facing truth.
And yet this book explains things that "standard theory" cannot possibly explain.
This book ranks up there with Atlas Shrugged, only Atlas was fiction this is not.
That is why this book was the subject of a ban from all the major Universities by boycotts to the publisher.
That is why this book was banned.If you value you truth, read this book.
but don't pretend this book doesn't describe reality, it does.Read for yourself if you dare.
the book is touted as nonfiction and it may have been written that way. But believe me, it's SF. First off, of course, the details of the book are just not true. There's no doubt that there have been planetary collisions in our solar system's history. That's how the solar system formed. But many of the more dramatic speculations are just wild. Still, the book is interesting and kind of a compelling read. It also, as I understand it, inspired the pretty good novels of "When Worlds Collide" and "After Worlds Colllide."
I'm giving this a high score for pure pleasure in reading, and in witnessing someone being able to draw together global mythologies into a coherent narrative. As for the science/actual believability of it all? No clue, and I'm a born skeptic– but I'll admit, it was a really fun read.
In brief: the author connects all the dots between the legends and myths, to describe the birth of Venus out of Jupiter's body, coming into collision with Mars and subsequently with Earth and Moon, thus modifying the orbits and tilting the Earth's axis.
The author place this cataclysm in a too recent time (eight century b.C. more or less) and even if I find this theory very intriguing I must consider it with caution.
Where Hancock just report facts (I still remember a quotation from Fingerprints of the Gods in which the author says "native precolombians still look toward the Pleiads, because it's from there that came the comets that destroyed Atlantis)...
The author posits that 2 of the main events in Jewish history, the Exodus and the end of the Israel Kingdom, were spurred by 2 comets, the first one then becoming Venus, and the second Mars...
These must have been the mothers of all comets.
All this happening about 3500 and 2700 years ago.
Among others, he also makes the claim that manna in the desert was the carbohydrate tail of above comet falling on the ground...
Based on this, this myth is probably 100,000 years old (read about this from Jean-Loic Le Quellec, amthopologist, CNRS researcher.My faith does not require that events described in the Torah happened verbatim.
Consciousness ahead of his timeWhat a book.
This leads me to believe that those who have negatively criticized this book possess fear of it leading me to believe that there is some considerable amount of truth supported by the research of the ancient world.
I may not be in 100% agreement that venus was born from Jupiter, but I do subscribe that our solar system is part of a binary system which supports the Celestial catastrophes of the past, and possibly the future, as in the book of revelation.
Interesting read, just to see why in 1950s and 60s it was such a controversy. Nice story but just that, even basic knowledge of history and science is enough to see lack of any serious scientific merit. Very dated as well but what to expect from a book published 70 years ago. With more literary treatment could work as sci-fi.
Don't read this book if your consciousness is still unbegun and in a deep state of mainstream hypnosis consisting of lie after lie after lie! But if you really want to understand grab it right away! Certainly a book full of insight!
Entertaining reading, but a little bit too far out there for believability.
Como se este trabalho inovador e complexo por si só não fosse importante o suficiente, o que aconteceu após a publicação do livro foi ainda mais importante: ele foi agressivamente rejeitado pela comunidade científica, mostrando um nível de conservadorismo dogmático jamais visto desde a Idade Média.Na verdade, ele revelou uma faceta já conhecida: a ciência e sua comunidade não se distanciam da religião em muitos aspectos, e estes são convenientemente amnésicos em relação às suas ações passadas ​​para com certas teorias aventureiras, mais tarde provadas corretas.
Velikovsky looked at ancient texts from 1400 BC and approximately 800 BC revealing observations of the celestial sky that demonstrated close contact with Venus and Mars.
These close contacts Earth had with these two celestial bodies explains the catastrophes of not only what took place during the Exodus, but also identified/verified in other ancient texts from the same time in various other parts of the world in both hemispheres.
According to Velikovsky, Venus is a recent editions to our solar system, being born from Jupiter.
Velikovsky was much aligned during his time, and is still ridiculed by many in the science community today.
Definitely not light reading, this is a potential game changer.
The information he highlights in this book he provides evidence for, by consistently verifying his points with biblical passages (now interpreted metaphorically) and simultaneous accounts from ancient scholars, texts and world mythologies.
Velikovsky puts biblical and mythological events, and even the great Homeric/classical poems, into serious perspective.
If you're inclined towards religious studies, ancient civilisations, classical studies, astrology, astronomy, occultism, or science in general, then I recommend this book as it will most likely provide you with tremendous food for thought.
I look forward to reading his other writings which expand on what he's written here.
Immanuel Velikovsky is a physicist, and his writing talks about how certain biblical events happened in scientific terms, and what people of the day experienced as far as planetary movement, the planets Mars, Venus, and the Moon, and their elliptical orbits, and the formation of the current calendar.
His books series a vast time period of planetary upheaval and earth related changes during those times--earthquakes, floods, asteroids hitting earth, solar flares, volcanic eruptions, and the fact that all of these changes are cyclical and correspond to changes in the solar system causing it--such as when asteroids hit earth, there were plagues and illnesses.From what I have read about the author, he was an outcast in his scientific community.
This is one of the best books I've ever read.
Worlds in Collision has greatly changed (i.e., improved) the way I think about and understand biblical prophecy, biblical language, ancient history, mythology, and astronomy.
Worlds in Collision presents an unforgettable and brilliant synthesis of ideas and data from widely diverse disciplines.
I applaud this author's willingness to stick his neck out by asserting (and presenting impressive evidence) that ancient writings from around the world describe real events, and that these events can be understood scientifically, and that they aren't fictional or delusional stories generated by confused, ignorant, fantasy-prone idiots of antiquity (which is how many modern intellectuals and academics think of ancient man).
Students of scripture will find this book especially enlightening.
There is plenty of "awkward" historical evidence supporting Velikovskian ideas which routinely get swept under the rug.
No way, they were primitive half-monkeys who didn't know how to count days or use a fixed point of reference, such as a TREE!On the other hand, some of his other arguments are just embarrassing, particularly his reading of myths.
Conflicts between imaginary characters are cited as evidence of planetary catastrophes.
His literalism has unfortunately been adopted by recent movements in post-Velikovskian theory, which might otherwise be on the right track.
For a psychiatrist his reading of myth had zero psychological depth.
conversation (really mostly listened and learned) with an unusually kind and patient couple that I had just met---a retired NASA space engineer and his wife who both had such a memory for details, a lot of which they had learned through reading Velikovsky.
I don't know if it's because I do most of my reading at bedtime and I end up getting sleepy unless it's VERY INTERESTING to me or if it's because Velikovsky is just over my head (could be both), but I just kept nodding off and rereading what I had already read.
I much prefer listening to the sweet couple.
The concept is fascinating: What if all the similarities in ancient tales are derived from specific cosmological events?
It's an intriguing hypothesis and Velikovsky amasses mountains of anecdotal evidence to support his position.
That being said, I'm not convinced.
Among the ancient texts he used were the prophetic writing of the Old Testament (Isaiah, Amos, etc.).
I'm familiar enough with these to be critical of his understanding and use of isolated passages.
It makes me wonder if the other sources he cites actually support his position.Also, this is not a page-turner.
I remember reading this book in the 9th grade and not being able to put it down, I brought the book to school and read it between breaks in high school.
It is an insightful book that helped me see the world's religions in an abstract manner.
It made me see that there are more similarities opposed to differences between worldly religions.
I read this book right after being George Carlin's number 1 fan (still am); I went from being a passionate atheist to a more understanding person as an agnostic.
I've cherished this book greatly ever since I read it, and can't wait to pick it up again from my dad's library.
I read about this book in a copy of "Cosmos" magazine and thought "That title sounds familiar." on investigation I found it in my grandfather's bookcase.
while the book at its release was surrounded by controversy, and presents a theory that is very hard to swallow, you have to respect the author for his creativity and sheer persistence.
The hours that must have gone into researching and writing this book is astonishing.
While the book is a bit of a slog to get through, I'm glad I read it, as it did give me a different perspective on mythology, religion and folklore.
FASCINATING.
And very convincing...until the ending.
I wish these writers wouldn't get so reductionist.
There was so much evidence for his ideas up to that point.
When it got into the angels bit, I just thought...you've lost me.
There's no evidence for this.
You're just trying to find a way to make every story fit into your theory.
But what's wrong with saying once people moved beyond a certain point in time, they changed tracks and these other stories we have from that later period comes from something different?
As if people never evolve?
