https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34043643-the-last-mrs-parrish
There are a good two hundred pages of lunch dates, designer dresses, charity events, and Amber hating every single person around her.Look, I love complex, selfish, unlikable characters.
The Last Mrs. Parrish delivers domestic abuse as a supposedly deserved punishment for being a backstabbing bitch.
Instead, what we're supposed to take away from this book is that it's fun to watch a bitchy, fraudulent woman be threatened, raped and abused by her husband.
The ultimate message is that this sickening domestic abuse is what some women deserve.I think this is why the authors don't give Amber any character complexity.
My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpr...4.5 Stars!! I’ve had a lucky streak of great books lately and I’m happy to say that this was another terrific read. “The Last Mrs. Parrish” was a very compelling psychological suspense novel. “Some women get everything. Some women get everything they deserve”  Amber Patterson detests the rich and privileged women she sees at the gym, yet she would give anything to be one of them. She is tired of being poor – of feeling unimp
But Amber has a plan to change her life and it starts with...Daphne Parrish.Daphne has it all....and Amber wants it.Daphne feels like she finally has a friend who can really understand the loss she suffered.
But she has no idea what Amber is up too.Spending holidays and even taking trips with the family, Amber has done her research and feels like things are going perfectly.
Both perspectives come together leading up to a thrilling and very satisfying conclusion.Although there were a few things that seemed a bit over the top, I didn’t really dwell on it as the story was so interesting.
FULL REVIEW POSTED*3.5 Stars*Hide ya wife. Hide ya kids. And hide ya husband…‘Cause Amber Patterson is on the prowl and liable to steal your entire life right out from under your nose. And this time her envious glare is set upon the beautiful and unsuspecting Daphne and her filthy rich, disgustingly successful husband, Jackson.I’ll be the first to admit that I  love  a good cast of whack job characters, but there’s certain criteria I feel necessary for their levels of insanity to work:- The char
. (No matter how absurd a theory may seem, good writing will make me a believer.) While the characters here certainly nailed psychopathy, I felt they lacked the depth and dimension needed for me to buy what they were selling, although I’m not saying the ride wasn't fun.
▪  Genre/Category: Psychological Thriller/Mystery/Suspense ▪  Characters: Deliciously Unhinged but largely one-dimensional ▪  Plot: An envious woman greedily sets out to steal the life and husband of a new “friend”.▪ Writing: Straightforward.
PARRISH has one of the most satisfying endings to a story I’ve read in a long time!What I don’t like:This book is too long.
But, if you tire of this part, persevere until the second half where the plot really picks up.Aside from not really feeling a connection to the characters, there is also not any suspense in this book.
It is VERY light on the psychological suspense and there is not a thriller vibe or shocking mystery to solve.Overall, this is a very fun book to read, most people will love it and I’m betting it is going to be very popular.The strange thing is….it is almost the exact same plot line from THE WIFE BETWEEN US by Greer Hendricks, which is the book I read just before this one.
The only reason this book is not getting the full five stars is it was a bit slow to start....
I can’t even tell you how I feel about Daphne because that would ruin things, but such a well developed character my feelings for her were all over the place throughout this book (I so much want to say something right now but I can’t🤫🤭)Ugh!
so just pick this book up sit back relax and enjoy the crazy ride!
Think of the beginning of this book as that huge hill you go up on a roller coaster before things start going sideways and crazy....
4.5*Careful what you wish for… Amber has a dream – a big one.
She wants to be rich beyond her wildest imagination, marry a gorgeous man and live in a stately mansion.
(That’s all?!) And she’s willing do whatever it takes to make that dream a reality!Daphne did marry the man of her dreams, is rich beyond her wildest dreams, and currently living in an incredible mansion.
Just who’s the lucky one here?Amber is busy embedding herself into Daphne’s life under false pretenses, with her eye squarely on the brass ring.
Told from both Ambers and Daphne’s POV.
I'm already planning on encouraging friends to give it a read so we can discuss it.
Amber Patterson isn't happy with her life.
and her plan involves the unlucky Daphne and Jackson Parrish.
Rich enough to buy anything Amber's little heart desires and movie-star handsome, he's an obvious choice.
but not necessarily his two children.Over the day I read this book, I was obsessed with it.
I loved reading about the crazy amount of wealth the Parrishes have, Amber's manipulation, the relationship between husband and wife, and even laughing over the antics of the two little girls.
But, Amber has plans, big plans, and in order to achieve her goals, she will walk over and step on anyone in her path- even Daphne-This story was chilling, clever, and sinfully entertaining.
The book is not too big on shock and awe, instead opting for a stylish noir type atmosphere, which is more understated than many novels that land in this sub-genre, but it gets the job done, just the same, without going off the rails with unnecessary plot twists.
The story is a bit of a cautionary tale, a warning to beware of what appears on the surface, to never judge a book by its cover, or blindly trust people.
Amber arrives in Bishops Harbor, Connecticut with a well-calculated plan.
She weaves her way into the lives of Jackson and Daphne Parrish, wealthy socialites, through an unseemingly cruel means.
Daphne recently lost her sister, Julie, to Cystic Fibrosis.
Our girl, Amber, just so happens to have had a cherished sister as well who succumbed to CF.
Not so sure about that, Amber.With one foot in the door, Amber squirms through the tiniest openings in order to get into the very private stronghold of the Parrish household.
Everything was pre-calculated with master plans......not off-the-grid dangerous, heart-pumping, driving-off-the-cliff thrill of a thriller.But, hear me out.
I did feel for Daphne, however I also felt her character was fairly bland and her part in the story quite easy to guess as well.The mystery itself was so predictable that I kept thinking, "Is this it?" The book is also just shy of 400 pages, which is too long given the rather minimal amount of actual plot.
Though, as I say, the writing is easy and makes the book very readable, the author does make use of many a cliché and in several cases I thought, do people really talk/think like this?
She has always wanted more for herself - including money and power and she will have it.
Daphne Parrish is beautiful, rich and sophisticated.
Daphne is married to handsome, successful Jackson Parrish.
Amber is beyond envious - they have the life that she wants and she has as plan.
Will Amber get what she wants?
It is also a study of these characters who are truly stunning.
These characters make you FEEL, they make your stomach feel like it is going to BURST WIDE OPEN.
FRAKKING AWESOME!!So this was a Traveling Sister Read.
I so loved reading this with my sisters - we had a great time together.
I wasn’t immediately drawn into this story though as I found parts of the first section a little bit slow and repetitive but once I reached the next section I was flipping those pages as fast as I could.
I really enjoyed how this story was divided up and once I reached the second part of this book it totally took a compulsive and unputdownable turn.
Would recommend to anyone that enjoys a fast-paced, unputdownable, and an entertaining mystery/thriller novel.Review written and posted on Two Sisters Lost In A Coulee Reading book blog:https://twosisterslostinacoulee.com
This is an excellent psychological thriller featuring an unlikable character named Amber Patterson.
She has weaved a plan to introduced herself into the lives of Mr. and Mrs. Parrish, a wealthy couple living in Connecticut, and, hopefully, remove the current Mrs. Parrish from the picture so that she can take her place.
We take a journey with Amber and watch her execute her plan carefully.
Overall, I enjoyed this book and found it engaging, interesting, and fast-paced.
The book reminded me of Best Day Ever and Genuine Fraud which were both books I loved.Overall, I highly recommend this book to readers of thrillers and contemporary fiction.
Yawnnnn.She’s a completely insufferable character, and you truly start to wonder what the authors were thinking in their creation of her, until the book switches over to the POV of Daphne Parrish, the woman who’s husband Amber is intent on stealing.
Because, honestly, for as cheesy and boring and soap-opera-y as this novel is, the resolution to Daphne’s problems, and what Amber “deserves”, is dark and fucked up and no one should be okay with this kind of narrative device – one that tells us some women deserve to be victims of abuse.It’s sick.It takes a lot for me to hand out one star.
There may be some spoilers in this review/the spoiler button was switched.Part I: Amber Part II: DaphnePart III: Not Named?Characters:Amber- main character Daphne- main character Jackson- Daphne’s rich husbandBella- Daphne and Jackson’s daughter Tallulah- Daphne and Jackson’s daughter Mrs. Battley- Jackson’s head secretary (resigned)Gregg- Ambers ‘boyfriend’About the author:Writing style is greatThrows in large words, why?Chapters are choppy, they jump forward weeks and it’s a little confusing.Part I: AmberAmber is extremely sly and motivated to get in with the high society of New York.
Daphne sets up with Gregg, who Amber doesn’t like at all (he’s no Jackson, but he does have money).
The characters in this book are vile, horrid and ghastly, a pleasant reading experience it was not, I was wondering what all the fuss was about for this book, having zero empathy for the main character Amber who plays the perfect villain. It’s not til the second part of the book that I was hooked and started to get it. I did spend a sleepless night tearing through it and the ending was throughly satisfying. I left with a better taste in my mouth than I did going in. 4.5 stars for keeping me up all damn night 😴

Addictive!! This was very, very good!! I was curious because of all the great recommendations this book had, Reese Witherspoon, Lee Child and Karin Slaughter, just to name a few. The hype is real and it’s a debut novel??! A must read.
It's no secret Amber is a conniving, cold, and calculating gold digger out to snare Daphne's super wealthy husband.
Secrets and true natures will be revealed.
And the ending was perfection that will put a satisfied smile on your face.This isn't a literary masterpiece but for the sheer fun of such an addictive read, it gets 4 stars.
If you’ve been reading some heavy, dense books, I highly recommend this one as a fun palate-cleanser.
I’m ok with some books just being fun page-turners.This was a Traveling Sister read with Brenda, Kaceey, Lindsay, Susanne, Nikki, Marialyce and Berit.
you mean ronan lynch?
In part one we learn about Amber and her meticulous plan to con and weasel her way into the Parrish family, in order to get the life she thinks she deserves.
In part two, we discover Daphne Parrish's perspective from when she first met her doting husband Jackson and how her life has changed since marriage, children, and since Amber came into her life.
Part three then becomes a combination of both Amber and Daphne's perspectives, leading up to the books delightful conclusion.The incorrigible characters had my jaw dropping on several occasions, and my blood boiling to new highs in others.
⭐⭐⭐⭐/5!!For me, The Last Mrs. Parrish was a cross between The Wife Between Us (there was even a "nervous Nellie" remark, how random is that?) and The Couple Next Door. I thought this book was fairly predictable, but it was SO good you guys. I didn't read the blurb again before I started reading, and this is a good book to go in without reading it (even though it doesn't give too much of anything away). What a deceitful little creature Amber is... The mix of Amber, Jackson, and Daphne was so perf
I thought this book was fairly predictable, but it was SO good you guys.
The mix of Amber, Jackson, and Daphne was so perfect and the author had me loving Daphne and reallllly hating Amber.
With phrases like "on the blink" an expression I happen to love, but never use, who wouldn't like this book?!
Also, I was pleasantly surprised and enthralled that Tallulah was carrying a Nancy Drew book with her.
Great expressions and Nancy Drew equals perfection for this girl.
I gave it 4 instead of 5 only because I thought it was a little predictable, but overall it was so so good.
Amber Patterson is envious of Daphne Parrish who is a rich socialite living in Fairfield County, Connecticut.
The two women have never met but Amber develops an obsession with her wonderful lifestyle.
Amber has few of these attributes and is jealous that someone else gets to live such a great lifestyle.
She extensively researches the Parrish family so that she can find a way to befriend them and enter their lives.Amber moves from Missouri to Connecticut and creates a new identity.
Amber’s plan seems to be working and she starts her scheme to become the new Mrs. Parrish.
If you can stomach the harrowing details of abuse in this novel, you’ll be rewarded with a more than satisfying ending.Like most people, I could kind of see where this book was heading at the onset.
The front cover says it all - “Some women get everything.
Some women get everything they deserve.” What I didn’t see coming was how our narrator would get her comeuppance.
This used to be a subject most authors had a difficulty getting right.
I’d like to think this is because information on the subject is abundant.
The first two words that come to mind that best describe this book: hilarious dreck.I've always wanted to know what would happen when FS0G was crossed with a soap opera, atrocious, corny dialogue, eye-rolling inducing one liners and sloppy writing.Its called:  The Last Mrs. Parrish. The sisters Constantine fall into the ever growing pantheon of female writers who are so adept at writing poor, one dimensional, trite female characters that do nothing with that brain of theirs, even though you know
** Read on if you like spoilers but trust me it won’t matter either way because the awfulness of this book stands on its own ** Take Amber Patterson, the wannabe who wants to be the next rich, sophisticated Mrs. Parrish.
I never would have guessed, considering all the domestic novels I've read always prefaces the blurb with "A perfect marriage...or is it?" I never would have guessed.Daphne gives the readers an insider look into her life and tries to rationalize why she would marry a man like that.

I flew through this one and I enjoyed it but I feel like you could of guessed where it was ended.📖Overall this year hasn’t been an amazing year for mystery/Thrillers so I need some recs! Please let me know your favorites because I need to read a thriller this year that will wow me!📖Overall this was a fun, interesting thriller but I wanted a little more from it.
The Last Mrs Parrish by Liv Constantine is a psychological thriller with quite a few twists and turns. Daphne Parrish is beautiful, rich and accomplished with a handsome husband and two daughters. Amber Patterson is Daphne's new friend who is out to take it all away from her. This is an addictive read with quite a few unlikeable characters but had me hooked from the beginning of the book.
The Last Mrs. Parrish is about a married couple, Jackson & Daphne Parrish, a wealthy family living in Connecticut, and Amber, a new woman in town.
Right away, I did not care for Amber, and while I understand the need to set the scene for the story, I felt this part of the book was pretty slow moving.
I felt some elements were a little far-fetched - The characters seemed a bit too gullible or agreeable about certain things, however my enjoyment of the book spiked in part 2, when I had a clear picture of what was really going on.
I was disappointed with this one. I thought I would like it more. It felt like a really bad soap opera with many dislikable characters and domestic violence added in. I didn't enjoy it! The girls in my book club loved it so maybe it is just me.
