https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/109692.The_Three_Fat_Men
Actually, as a very young girl, I could never understand why this book was not censored in Romania: everything about the "three fat men" reminded me of the Ceausescus, everything about the plight of the people and the sentiments towards revolution signaled to me that perhaps something exciting would happen soon- it did, 1989 came a few years after I started reading The Three Fat Men. When The Revolution rolled into Bucharest, the only way my 9-year-old mind could grasp what was happening was by referencing this book.
When I was five, or seven, or whatever I was when I read The Three Fat Men for the first time, it was, to me, a book about brave little dancer Suok and romantic Heir Tutti and smart Doctor Gaspar.
Olesha has a great sense of language and his unexpected and witty metaphors cracked me up more than once - I doubt I noticed all these small details as a child.
Even though the plot is rather simplistic, the language and the illustrations make me think that The Three Fat Men wasn't really aimed at children.
Or, at least, not only at children.
Best children book ever
Magical. Vividly described. Imaginative. Childish in the best and most wonderful sense. Colorful. Fantastical. Unpredictable. Adventurous. The best. :)
Като говорим за пропаганда в най-чист вид, предназначен за подрастващите и гъбкопопивателни умове на децата ни, няма как да не сетя първо за Носов, и след това веднага за Олеша, с неговата кратка и привидно почти забавна повест, за свалянето от власт на тримата шишковци – едри фабриканти, производители на въглища, желязо и жито, от смелия народ развял червени знамена, искащ равенство и братство, и еднакви възможности и обществени блага за всички.
— Скажите, чем больна эта девочка? Неужели дифтеритом?— Нет, у неё дыра в груди.— Вы хотите сказать, что у неё не в порядке лёгкие?— У неё дыра в груди, — повторил чиновник.Доктор из вежливости не спорил.— Бедная девочка! — вздохнул он.— Это не девочка, а кукла, — сказал чиновник.От Олеши я меньшего и не ожидал. Сочная, нажористая колбаска заместо языка, и так и требующие облизать себя засаленные яркими персонажами пальцы. Искрясь, медком льется буйное фантазерство.Вместе с этим, книга немного разочаровывает простецкостью сюжета и нарастающей к концу до неприличных даже для «детской» литературы размеров снисходительности. В «Зависти» автор поработал гораздо тоньше.
brilliant and enchanting and adorable!if i had a child, i'd make them read this and thus introduce them to the wonderful world of russian lit.
One of my favorite books as a child - I used to get it from the library again and again and again...
Нет, ну конечно "Три Толстяка" мне знакомы.
Вот и у меня была в детстве антология с названием "Золотой ключик", в которой были эти "Три Толстяка", жаль подевалась неизвестно куда.
Казалось бы, и я наверняка должен был читать этот роман в детстве, но нет - абсолютно ничерта не помню.
Возможно из того же фильма, хотя кто его знает, где я мог его встречать.К тому же, как не прочитать, когда появилось издание с чудными иллюстрациями М.
Конечно же, будучи ребенком такая сказка и представляется сказкой, само собой, добро побеждает, все счастливы и т.д.
Сейчас же я понимаю - это довольно жестокая сказка.
Хотя, конечно, в детстве всего этого не замечаешь, чего уж там.
It was fun reading this book as a kid. I read the Hindi translation at that time. What stayed with me as a memory of this book was the gymnast Tibul - his antics and his different name.I used to reflect on this book and used to think that how a political opinion can be sugar coated and made in to an easily digestible fable for kids so that they are indoctrinated early on. I still keep that opinion.
Lo encontré entre libros de segunda mano y a un precio que básicamente gritaba que querían deshacerse de él. Aunque debo de admitir que lo primero que me llamó la atención fueron sus hermosos gráficos me quede enganchada rápidamente con la lectura, la forma en la que lo narran es hermosa y entretenida. No soy mucha de leer este tipo de libro pero este sin duda se va a mi estante de libros favoritos.
I read it in the past (right after 1989 of the Romanian Revolution). It is a colorful and savory mix expressing a sympathetic trilogy.The children will be a little bit agitated about the evolution of the events, but they will remain overflowing realism. The people always rise against the tyrants, and each time it is defeated.
Despite its purely literary merits (hence 4 stars), it reads like a revolutionary pamphlet and that makes me uncomfortable. Especially knowing when it was written and being aware of the ugly consequences of destroying the old Russian way of life by the bolsheviks 100 yeas ago (almost to the day).
Fairy tale about revolution. Great characters, wonderful plot and almost completely forgotten author. Which is a shame.
In മലയാളം
Вспомнила детство.... старая добрая сказка. Хоть и осуждали Олешу за коммунистические идеи, все-таки по сути, это сказка о борьбе с жестокостью и несправедливостью.
Any gospodin speaking his mind out aloud to the nobles as Prosper the armourer did- 'All who used to work for you and were paid peanuts for it while you grew fat, all the unfortunate, the deprived, the hungry, the emaciated ones, the orphans, the cripples, the beggars - all are going to war with you, with the fat and the rich who have replaced their hearts with stone- would have been whipped soundly in real life, but he got away with this hifalutin stuff in this intensely moving fairy tale.I suggest getting children to read this book because they will love the rich prose.
Lugu (ja sellest tehtud film) pälvis Nõukogudemaal päris suure populaarsuse, terved põlvkonnad venelasi on üles kasvanud teadmisega, et rikkad on per se halvad (ja paksud, paks olla on halb, mitte sellepärast et see tervisele halvasti mõjub, vaid sellepärast et paksus on tingitud rikkusest, rikkus on aga vaestelt kokku "röövitud") ja on õige ja õiglane neid maha lasta ja nende rikkus ära võtta, "vaestele jagada".
Ühesõnaga, selline primitiivne sõjakommunismi aegne arusaam, töötab aga ilmselt tänini, kuigi noistsamadest vaestest kehvikutest on juba reaalses elus võrsunud uusrikkad, kes pole ilmselt vähem paksud ja halastamatud varanduse kokkuriisumisel.
Nende uusrikaste lapsed aga loevad seda muinasjuttu, ja tunnevad "vaestele ja rõhututele" kaasa ning rõõmustavad kui vaeste massid punalippude lehvides relvameister Prospero ja akrobaat Tibulluse juhtimisel paksude riigikorda ("kapitalismi") kukutavad.Hariv pilguheit nõukogude ideoloogia juurtele.
Nu există nici o carte proletcultistă pentru copii mai eficientă decât această fantezie revoluţionară a lui Iuri Oleşa, neapărat în ediţia mare, cartonată, scoasă în 1987 de editura Ion Creangă în colaborare cu moscovita Raduga.
Pe un fundal hoffmannesc în amestec bine dozat cu principii leniniste, Trei grăsani este basmul perfect al Revoluţiei din Octombrie, repovestită ca o revoltă a muncitorilor şi săracilor împotriva triumviratului despotic şi lacom al celor trei grăsani.
Grăsani, pentru că în contrast cu muncitorii slabi, flămânzi, dar cu antebraţe vânoase de culturişti (dacă ne raportăm la iconografia fazei revoluţionar-romantice a comunismului), cei trei sunt puhavi, monstruoşi, diformi.
Pentru copii comunişti, care, se ştie, sunt mai buni decât cei burghezi.
Just finished reading it for my younger son.
Had read it to my elder son a few years back.
These, added to the umpteen times I had read it in my childhood, prove how fascinating the book is.I just love the attention to the tiny details.
Yuri Olesha is actually a 'God of small things in the bigger picture' cos the bigger picture is painted beautifully too.
One can really visualise each event in the story, even without illustrations.The story itself is a tale of standing up for our rights & having courage to even face death for the sake of our convictions and a tirade on tyranny by the rich.All in all, a beautiful story.
Šitāda sociālisma propoganda noteikti nopelnīja autoram elites stāvokli. Būtībā - tauta cīnās pret trim resnvēderiem (nez, kuras valstis ar to bija domātas? :D). Tauta, protams uzvar. Starp varoņiem ir pašaizliedzīgā Suoka, ieroču meistars Prospero, vingrotājs Tibuls un, protams, zinātnieks doktors Arneri.Pēdējā nodaļa bija īpaši laba: strādāsim kopā, būsim visi bagāti, bet, ja mirsim badā, tad arī mirsim badā visi. Pilnīgs sviests :D
L'ho letto alle medie. Chissà, magari ero troppo piccola perché non ci ho capito niente... E non ne ho un buon ricordo. Eppure tante altre recensioni dicono di averlo adorato da bambini...Bah!A dodici anni, Soobie scriveva:Libro abbastanza bello. Racconta le avventure di un paese che è tiranneggiato da tre grassoni che opprimono il popolo con tasse e lavori pesanti. Poi i ribelli prendono in mano la situazione.
The book length can make it as a long fairy tale or a short novel (not a real novel thought), it's still just a book for children. Sure it has some twists and the plots are quite compelling, but the storyline is predictable, you can also find some mishaps, some text are wordy, and the illustrations could have been done better. However, should't live up too much for a children book away, since not everything is The Petite Prince, though.
It was a surprise for me for it was real good as a book for 10 y.o. kids.
superb
Childhood memories :)
Подариха ми тази книга, май за 8-ия ми рожден ден. Започнах я, но 20-ина страници преди края нещо ми доскуча и така и не я довърших.
I read the Hindi translation (titled Teen Mote). A total laugh riot, it was a beautiful translation too.
Great Book, except this one I actually read in Russian, and not in translation.
It is one of best books I ever read
