https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/248510.The_900_Days
Arriving just days after the Leningrad blockade was lifted on January 27, 1944, Salisbury put to work his rich journalism background to interview dozens and dozens of siege survivors, Soviet party leaders and soldiers.
Here’s a picture of hundreds of starving citizens attempting to clean-up their city by clearing debris and corpses as the Russian winter of 1942 comes to a close:In October of this year my wife and I traveled to Russia – our first visit to this beautiful country.
Midway through the dinner I mentioned I was reading a book about the Siege of Leningrad.
Moscow, SPB and some Baltic cities have pedestrian tunnels at some intersections.
This sign--”Citizens: In case of artillery shelling, this side of the street is more dangerous.” Marina said to take a bus 3 stops and walk a ways.
I walked the rest of about 12 blocks, took a picture of the sign and walked back, In the second of 2 tunnels, a man stopped in front of me.
I attempted to go around him, and a 2nd man blocked my way.
In the meantime a 3rd man came behind me and started to take my fanny pack/pick my pockets.
A book of horrors.While we readers have had ample access to stories about the holocaust and what befell Jewish citizens, Romas, and political prisoners, until I read a wonderful work of fiction called City of Thieves many years ago (you should recognize the author if you watch Game of Thrones), I had zero understanding of the nightmare of this siege.Surrounded on all sides by Nazi forces, Hitler's aim to starve the one and a half million Russians to death came pretty close to meeting its goal.
Eppure è uno degli episodi decisivi per le sorti della guerra.Questo saggio è la ricostruzione efficace e molto accurata del più lungo assedio che una città abbia mai subìto in epoca moderna.Durata: dall’8 settembre 1941 al 18 gennaio 1944 (due anni e cinque mesi, 900 giorni)Vittime: oltre un milione tra civili morti per fame, freddo o sotto i bombardamenti, e militari caduti in combattimento.In questo libro, che possiamo considerare un classico della saggistica sulla Seconda Guerra Mondiale, il terribile ed epico assedio subito da Leningrado è descritto attraverso le storie di tanti dei suoi cittadini, raccolte e organizzate dall’autore in maniera accurata, in grado di restituirci la portata della tragedia e il coraggio, l’abnegazione, l’orgogliosa resistenza degli abitanti di Leningrado.L’uomo distrugge, l’uomo resiste, l’uomo (a volte) creahttps://youtu.be/vRHZu5xoIe0Solo un appunto.
I read this book while on a trip with some college buddies in California.
I had to read this book over the trip for school.
I understand the horrors the Americans and the French and the Jews withstood in WWII.
No horror movie will ever come close.
They live them.
Or they don't get a chance to live through them.
This book changed my view of Soviet American politics.
The book holds so many details, and lessons, and experiences on a type of war that will never make it to the movie screen.
Most of the book is concerned with the German invasion in June 1941 and takes us to the disastrous winter of 1941-42 when possibly over 600,000 Leningraders died of deliberate starvation from the German siege.
Due to Soviet suppression many first-hand accounts of this painful period have disappeared forever.As the author states there has never, in the long history of human afflictions, been a siege as vicious and deliberate as this one; therein lies the importance of this book.
This one passage in the book moved me the most:From chapter 35 of "900 Days, The Siege of Leningrad"Anna Akhmatova waits outside for hours in the prison lines as she had for the past seventeen months.
This is one of my favorite nonfiction books, an overwhelming, endlessly fascinating account of an epochal, monumental event of World War II, including the preliminary actions of Hitler and Stalin and the initial invasions of eastern Europe that led to the siege.
If you ever find yourself complaining about your lot in life, you really need to read this book to get some inkling of that it feels like to have REAL problems: stranded in a huge, arctic cold city with millions of walking dead starving to death with you and wondering when the next bomb or shell will hit.Salisbury knows how to weave a complex, multi-focused story that reads like a rattling good novel, with a large cast of characters and centers of interest.
A truly great book.
It seems to me that it would have been important to discuss the German’s siege policy and procedure, so that readers could understand why the Russians had such a hard time lifting it.He does explain that Stalinist-era Soviet incompetence, mendacity, and villainy exacerbated or even caused much of the Leningraders' suffering, but there is a lack of detail as to how this incompetence played out.
I gave it 5 stars because it remains the definitive work on this subject and as a document of the dogged resilience of the human spirit, it is extraordinary.
Moreover, despite its flaws, Salisbury actually managed to document these extraordinary times and speak with those who lived through them.
Excellent ReadDespite reading this over twenty years ago, it left a lasting impression how desperate the plight of Lenigraders was during the titanic struggle.
Imagine being completely cut-off six months of the year from your country.
The only life-line is lake Ladoga when it freezes over.
Yet even then, thin ice, constant shelling and mechanical failures imped the arrival of the few sparse supplies coming into to the city.Imagine funeral pyres being the norm.
Men and women bathing naked in the cities fountains, ignoring their nakedness or sexual desires.
The only constant for 900 days—death.
Excellent read.
Excellent read.
I went to this book after reading a footnote in one of my history books.
Any friend you know that may have family in Russia will be able to add to this historical narrative about what Salisbury confirms that (quoting the official historical record) 'In world history there are no examples which in their tragedy equal the terrors of starving Leningrad.
was the equal of many months of ordinary life.' Those who maintain that suffering—undeserved and unexplained—must show there cannot be a loving God out there need only ask these people who never lost their faith or hope.
Aaahhh, the book starts out with a wonderful description of Leningrad on the whitest of the white nights, June 21, 1941 after a cold spring: People are out enjoying life and the culture the wonderful city offered to them, many of them quite confident their lives are safe from German invasion because their government has been telling them that.
Actually, it seems quite a few Soviets thought Hitler might be a nice escape from Stalin and all his terrors; people of Leningrad were still piqued that Moscow had been made the "temporary" capital, especially since the citizens were so very different from each other.
Detailed, but dry, this book treats of the almost-900-days of the German siege of Leningrad, focusing on the worst of it, 1941-42, and cursorily with the rest. What came across most forcefully was the inefficiency of dictatorship and terror whereby the moods of the autocrat, Stalin, and his henchmen, Beria, Malentov, Molotov, could adversely effect the course of state action, in this case national defense. What I hadn't known is how unprepared the Soviets were and how unnecessary the magnitude of their initial defeats were.
from an emaciated starving leningrad citizen who gives up a meal to attend the philharmonic - man does not live by bread alone. triumph of the human spirit. an amazing chronology of the most horrific siege of the modern era. yet also uplifting to learn of the countless ways the residents of Lwningrad managed to survive with their spirit intact
The author not only used hundreds of Russian print sources, but he visited Leningrad soon after the siege, and he interviewed many residents who lived through the experience.In the early chapters there are sections that require some patience, as the arrangement of military forces is described and statistics about weapons and so on are given.
I was not quite sure why the author glossed over the quite lengthy period after that winter until the lifting of the siege.I think the Cold War has blinded us to Russia's part in World War II, partly through bias, partly through lack of information.
I'm actually curious if, with the increased accessablity of Soviet-era historical information, there is more information published on this amazing event...Mr. Salisbury's research, interviews, and composition took place in that odd historical period between the end of the Stalin regime in 1953 and the return of a more repressive rule in the Brezhnev era commencing in 1968.
The fact that the book was never published in the Soviet Union (though a Russian language version was published in the West and commonly smuggled into the USSR) is certainly a reflection of the official Soviet line...Overall a marvelous book on an amazing period of world history.
(Is there any country whose people have suffered more from their fellow human beings in the last 200 years than the Russians?)One of the creepiest scenes in the book is when the supply trucks, which hauled in food across the enormous Lake Lagoda--the only lifeline into the city--kept crashing through the thin ice, trucks and drivers plunging into the black water (hundreds of feet deep in most places).The book, written in 1969, does not have the brilliance of Stalingrad: The Fateful Siege 1942-1943 by Antony Beevor.
Except for those that were purged by their own henchmen, most of the evil Soviet leaders seem to die peaceful deaths.)
This is a very comprehensive description of the Nazi siege of Leningrad. Since Salisbury covers both the military events and the life of the population, it can be difficult to juggle all the names. He is particularly good at depicting how much of the suffering was due to Stalin's maniacal need to control everyone, and to kill anyone who might have questioned his leadership. As soon as the war was over, Stalin tried to erase all knowledge of the heroism and the suffering, and the fact that perhaps a million Russians starved to death during the siege.
Divisions were sent into battle under-strength and under-armed, just to try to hold the Germans back for a few days longer.Just nine weeks into the invasion, the German army reached the southern suburbs of Leningrad and was only stopped by the frantic digging of defensive works, with hundreds of thousands of civilians from the city recruited to help, and colossal artillery barrages from the heavy warships of the Baltic Fleet laid down to delay the advance.
Nevertheless, I learned many details from this book that served to personalize this tragedy of epic and unprecedented proportions.The book strikes a nice balance between covering the military and civilian situations during the Siege.
Dozens of pages are spent on the Nazi invasion of Baltic cities other than Leningrad, and the main bulk of the narrative is spent on the autumn and winter of 1941-1942 (which was the most brutal period when the greatest number of civilian casualties occurred).
The final year of the siege (1943-1944) is covered in only about 10 pages in one of the last chapters.
Depuis son lancement les lecteurs ont adoré ce livre parce qu’il montré surtout le grand courage des Léningradois pendant leur épreuve terrible.
Pourtant, les livres qui ont paru depuis tendent à confirmer tous ce que Salisbury prétendait.
Salisbury a été parmi les premiers dans le monde Anglophone à blamer Staline pour le nombre extraordinaire des morts en Russie pendant la deuxième grande guerre mondiale.
Tout ce que l’on a appris depuis cinquante ans appuie la these de Salisbury.Les 900 Days de Salisbury est une des très grands livres d’histoire du vingtième siècle.
While devastating, one reads again and again about how people never felt more alive or more free than during the blockade.Finally, it is interesting that the Blockage still plays a major role in St. Petersburg's self-image.
A trip to the Museum of the Blockade of Leningrad is a worthwhile trip for anyone.
The image of one candle for each day of the blockade, along with the constant sound of the metronome (which played over the radio to indicate that the city was still alive) have stayed with me through to this day.
Stalin refused to believe intelligense reports that Hitler was massing troops along the Soviet Border.
In his arrogance, Stalin believed he would be the one to attack and do it in his own time therefore Germany was able to attack at the point when Soviet Union was at it's least prepared.
Stalin and his Secret Service head, Beria, had through the purges of the 1930's decimated the military of the most competent leaders, had ignored military production as well as food supplies.
When Hitler attacked, Stalin was so stunned, that he went into a deep depression & was out of contact, leaving the Soviet Union without leadership.
I read this because I have been to St. Petersburg and the events of WW2 and the siege were a HUGE part of the identity of the older Russians I spoke with.
The tours we took always pointed out where damage remained from the siege, or what a particular building contributed to the war.
I wanted to understand why it was so ingrained, even with people my age (who were too young to have lived through it).
Well, now I understand a little better the pride the older residents have in their city and themselves.
Little did I imagine that I would be visiting Leningrad the summer after graduation.I remember reading and re-reading certain sections of the book in disbelief.
What these people endured and eventually overcame lies far outside anything the most fertile imagination could conjure up.
I'd always assumed that the author had taken a little creative license with his fictionalized bits within the book That is, I did until I actually visited St. Petersburg's "Museum of the Defense and Siege of Leningrad".
The book is a great read despite the somber tone and subject matter.
I'll be reading it again soon.
but I just cannot get past the first 100 pages.
I keep trying and trying, but the description of military action at the start of the book is so frenetic with a stream of names, dates, and places that are not particularly well connected or illustrated that it's really difficult to follow.
The first 20 pages are absolutely guaranteed to knock you out.I'll come back to this when I'm not pregnant and exhausted (so possibly never) and update my review if I ever get past the military action at the start, but for now, it's on my not recommended list.
I was directed to this book because David Benoit relied upon it to create his 'City of Thieves' (allegedly what Hitler called Leningrad).
The book describes the siege and the machinations of Soviet Bureaucracy in excruciating detail, punctuated with personal stories of the starving, freezing, dying population.
An amazing story, a holocaust for the ages.
I found one anecdote stolen by Benoit wholesale from this book.
I learned the basic principles of Soviet administration: when disaster threatens, do nothing until it is too late, then shoot the administrators who did nothing, shoot the administrators who argued to do something, and shoot those who actually did something, but who did not wait for orders from the top.
Through archival research and personal interviews conducted in the USSR, Salisbury recounts the events leading up to and during the 900-day long siege of Leningrad during World War 2.
Salisbury mixes inspirational stories of Soviet determination, such as the establishment of a dangerous supply route over frozen lakes to ship food in while simultaneously shipping women and children out, and genuinely uplifting stories of kindness, such as soldiers giving their rations to starving families, with the utterly heartbreaking tales of misery and death in a city where over 1,000,000 civilians died.
While it’s hard to read at times the 900 Days is well worth the intellectual and emotional investment.
A horrific ordeal and a narrow escape in some ways.
Had Lenningrad fallen who knows what the world would be like.
It is a very interesting history given the way the information and people have been treated over the years.
I would recommend this book to anyone planning to visit the area or with a keen interest in the second world war, but it is a long and arduous read.
So many nights now have I gone to sleep thinking of death and war.
The book details a harsh reality, it is remarkable how the people coped.
The best book ever written on WW II.
The spirit and intellect of the Russian people is awe inspiring.
They have forever had to endure the most oppressive and bleakest forms of government of any country on earth, and yet they remain a people of remarkable endurance, intelligence, and creativity.
During the siege, they realized that they needed to devise ways in which to not only sustain their bodies, but they must also feed their minds and their souls.
They took great risks in order to save and preserve their books, their art and music.
Would Americans who have become so consumed with materialism react in this way?
