https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/534174.End_of_Millennium
These three volumes address the fact that society, economy, and the political realm have been completely transformed by information and tech revolutions, to something where the three are interconnected in timeless/placeless informationalism.
In the final volume, Castell's looks deeply at the 20th century politcal/economic ideologies of Marxism and Capitalism, and links them to progress in what their ability to survive has looked like.
The challenge is to recognize what the world has become, and then from there to intelligently reorganize as individuals and communities to address the fact that we are not trying to create a revolution, but that one has already happened and we are just now scrambling to make sense of it.
The three volumes that this book is a part of ate staggering in scope and often penetrating in analysis.
Castells' theory of flow is groundbreaking and provides a framework for an entirely new direction in communication theory, the political economy of mediated communication, and the politics of information and culture.
One critique of these three volumes is that there are moments in all three books where Castells becomes nostalgic for a so-called authentic urban space and culture that is highly problematic.
As well, his theory of the spatiality and temporality of flow is undertheorised.
Castells makes some interesting points in this, the last of his Network Society trilogy, and shows some interesting data, but it's far and away the weakest of the three volumes. Much serious-minded analysis is precluded by the sort of post-Cold War triumphalism and capitulation to the neoliberal project that unfortunately marked a lot of academic thought in the '90s, which comes off as rather dated nowadays. There are some highlights, to be sure, but the first volume is far and away the best and most original.
The last of the trilogy. This book along with the other two comprehensively discuss the changes that happens in the information age. It opens my eyes on how actually the technology in which I was trained affect the social fabric of our daily life. Would love to read it again someday.
