https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149671.Caravan_to_Vaccares
As it happens, we had this particular MacLean title at home and I really enjoyed perusing it as a child.Fast-paced, sexy and a logic-defying thriller, Caravan to Vaccares is set in the 1960s and has a certain Neil Bowman investigating a number of disappearances in the Provence region of France, as gypsies gather around for their annual pilgrimage.
Caravan to Vaccares was loosely adapted into a 1974 film starring David Birney and Charlotte RamplingThe book's writing may appear to be a bit dated in the 21st century.
However, if you're looking for a fast-paced thriller devoid of logic, you can give this a try.
I found the book in a free box, and decided the 224 pages would be fun to read.
I had read another of his short pieces, The Black Shrike, and had the same reaction, but didn’t hold it against this new title.
Caravans is about two men who are hanging around gypsy caravans during a 1960’s era festival where gypsies gather from far and wide.
Each “picks up” a pretty girl who can serve as a foil, object of desire, and cover.
Each girl obediently goes along with it, later to be put into danger.
This one, like The Black Shrike, should be left in the free box.
I've always had a soft spot for MacLean's Caravan to Vaccares for some reason. Admittedly, a lot of my regard (and high ratings) of some of his books are due to nostalgia (not to mention his great responsibility in getting me reading in the first place!), but I can surely agree that much of his work leaves much to be wanted. If you, however, would like to check out his vast body of work, this is one of the 'certainly recommended' ones from me.
This almost caused me to put the book down then and there, and it did cause me to put it aside for longer than it would normally take to read a 200 page thriller.Finally I picked it up again and got into the plot a bit more.
In any event I worked my way through it, which may not seem like high praise for a thriller.
At lease I will feel I should continue reading him when I'm looking for a light outing.Now, I'm wondering if any of those movies based on his books still hold up after nearly 50 years away from them.....
I read this book as part of a continuing experiment to reread books that I enjoyed back in the day.
This one didn't work out so well and highlights a major shift in writing styles over the past 40 years.
So a book that I was enthralled with 35 years ago is now mostly boring even though the story is told at pace.
I shall not call a halt to the experiment just yet so will have another crack at a MacLean book later in the year.
MacLean was a favorite of my teen years.
I don't know if I just grew up or this is one of his weaker books, but it's far from great (and far less than I remember).His thrillers tend to isolate a small group of forceful people (behind the lines in WWII, at Ice Station Zebra, or in this case, in a rural and somewhat desolate part of southern France).The action's a bit of a muddle and the ending preposterous.
I'm still not 100% who works for whom.It's entirely not-PC if you care (Roma and feminists in particular are likely to find reason for offense).
Had too much science fiction on my iPad, so I bought this from the iBook store. It has been forty years since I read Caravan to Vaccares, and at least twenty years since I read anything by MacLean. I'd forgotten how much I enjoy this kind of story. Thin on character, but strong on plot and pacing, the rating remains unchanged. The scenario is simple enough: A nefarious group of gypsies are evildoers and murderers. Our hero figures out what they are up to and puts an end to it.
This was my first MacLean. I bought it new in 1971 for $.95. Great tension and wonderful descriptions. A couple of spots where things got confusing but worth it.
Halfway through a very guilty pleasure Alistair MacLean re-read, Caravan and Puppet on a Chain both stand out for using foreign cultures as their villain, i.e., gypsies in Caravan and rural Dutch in Puppet.
That element, a sort of cultural anxiety, stood out to me, as so far I've found MacLean to be relatively absent the kind of xenophobia found in Ian Fleming (South by Java Head's portrait of the Japanese being an exception).
Also standing out in both books is the narrator using brownface as a disguise.
On the plus side, the usual MacLean self-deprecating narrator fits this story perfectly, and the writing is relatively taut.
A reasonable pace was maintained throughout the novel, which is an important feature of a thriller novel, I believe.However, on the flip side, I’d say that the plot was dull, and in many cases, the antagonists were being extremely foolish, which isn’t exactly the sign of an “equal contest” between the protagonist and the antagonist.
Some, like Le Grand Duc and Cecile Dubois were described so well whereas I felt most of the others were ignored, including Bowman.
Any kind of digression ruins a thriller novel and the major deviation in this book is the romantic sub-plot featuring Bowman and Cecile.
And I was again in thrall of the writer's  consummate mastery over language and plot.I grew up with Alistair Maclean's books and those of Desmond Bagley, Arthur Hailey, Irving Wallace, Harold Robbins - till I discovered the Hardy's, Fitzgerald's, Cronin's, Proust's,  Mausappant's and the like.
What else can a simple pleasure-seeking,  lotus-eating reader ever want?Alistair Maclean 's books always resonate with one dialogue in this book, when Duc is about to walk into a situation he has nothing to do with, in front of his perplexed girl-friend -"But you can't just barge in -""Nonsense.
MacLean starts the story in media res, the narrative already steaming ahead, and barely slows the pace for 189 pages.
The sense of mystery and enigma - you know who the goodies and the baddies are, and you might get a handle on some of the supporting characters - are maintained by the simple literary device of MacLean not telling you exactly what’s going on till page 165.
Even the slightly contrived romantic subplot - always MacLean’s weakest trait as a writer - is handled better than in any of his other books.
When I was growing up there were a number of books by Desmond Bagley and Alistair McLean on my parent's bookshelf and these formed some of the earliest adult fiction that I read.
Caravan to Vacarres is not one I have read before and is certainly not one of McLean's better-known novels.
The strength is in the action sequences which are very, very well done - not quite as ssuepensful as the depth charge scene in Das Boot, but actually quite compelling.
Overall, it was reasonably good fun, no major surprises but because of the excellent action sequences, better than I had expected.
That said in 2013 it does feel a little dated in style, compared to say someone like Alan Furst, who writes period, as in pre second world war two that have a timeless feel about them, even though they're written by a contemporary writer.
It feels a little out of line to be "criticising" somoeone as memorable as Alistair Mclean but hey, that's my perogative.
Actually if I'd written a review of Caravan to Vaccares back in 1970 I am sure I would've been effusive rather than conditional in my approach.
I've read and enjoyed all of MacLean's better novels, generally agreed to be about half of what he wrote, which is pretty good as novelists go.
It had the usual MacLean devices: a man with unforeseen abilities which are slowly revealed through action; the women he acts to protect, and who have little else to do; and a convoluted plot with many twists and reverses.
Here, the action scenes were much longer than my attention span, the villains simple caricatures, and frankly, by the time it was over, mostly I just felt relief.
This book had good and bad qualities both. It was moderately fast paced and had a lot of action which makes one keep reading. The plot was also quite good and witty.The characters, on the other hand, were awful. They were superficial, some were arrogant, some were silly, and almost all of them felt cartoonish. The old fashioned view against women's capabilities were hard to read in some sections.
Although typically action-packed as most MacLean novels are, I did not care for this one so much. I am starting to think that MacLean relies too heavily on concealing information from the reader in order to maintain suspense. I don't remember that from my initial reads of his work as a teenager, but it really annoys me now. Just ok.
Caravan to Vaccares was a fun novel, if a little predictable. It reminded me of the 1960s spy films, like Charade or Torn Curtain. It is a product of it’s time, so the portrayal of women is less than inspired and the highly vilified caricature of the Romany Gypsies is problematic. Still it was entertaining.
An Old Fashioned ThrillerMacClean is in fine form with this one. It takes place in the sixties or maybe the seventies but Despite todays very changed political climate, the story comes across as very believable. This tightly woven thriller would still ring true, even if such modern conveniences as cell phones and the internet were added.
This was the second Alistair McLean book I read(after The Guns of Navarone) and thought it brilliant. I'd read a lot of James Bond and was delighted to find a lead character who has difficulties with the mundane ie trying to distinguish a particular car in a car park at night with no torch; reasurringly human, and very exciting right up to the unknotting.
i don't normally go for european spy novels, but this was great! i was totally drawn into the story and was totally shocked by some of the plot twists. the man who wrote this book really got me into the characters. i could really identify with the feelings of the girls, especially. i don't know how he tapped into the female mind, but he did so very well. i good read for anybody!
“Caravan to Vaccares” is one of the worst Alistair MacLean novels I have ever read. It has a few humorous moments, but otherwise wasn’t really worth reading. The narrative is bloated, the dialogue is full of pointless, meaningless conversation, the characters are static and completely superficial and the plot is dull and disappointingly implausible.
This is my first novel of Alistair Maclean in English (I have read HMS Ulysses but in Gujrati). The book mostly consists of action set pieces with a threadbare plot. But they are detailed nicely and don't feel over the top.
Another reasonably good thriller from Mr MacLean...and all the better for having no foul language, unlike most of today's immature writers! I don't think this is one of MacLean's better books, but I like his style and I enjoyed it!
Alistair MacLean is indeed an excellent writer but this book no doubt was a very difficult read for me. Too much of description about everything. The story itself was not so interesting and was guessable.
"Stop cringing," I had to tell myself. "This story was written back in the paleolithic era and just reflects the stonge-age values systems of the time. Relax and enjoy the chase scenes and the ebb and flow of the life-and-death scenarios."
"I liked it" is high praise from me. I nearly 'really' liked it, because I took it on holiday, on a trip to the Camargue, and read some of it parked by the lake in Vaccares. Sense of Place is a marvelous thing.
This was a different book to read as it related the story from multiple points of view. There were many characters so the reader needs to keep track of people. Unsurprising development of the plot and an end that was predictable. Reasonable read that is typical of Alastair Maclean.
REmains one of my absolute favourite reads of Alistair MacLean along with Circus, The Guns of Navarone and Where Eagles Dare. A taut thriller, some romance, some brutal killings and well written action. Cracking read.
Kind of a weird, disorienting story and definitely not one of Maclean's best.The story revolves around a lot of the Gypsy environs of Spain, which was interesting, but the plot moved rapidly and ignored a lot of setup.
