https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5989109-tales-of-secret-egypt
I tip my hat to the fine folks at Project Gutenberg: virtually every title I have or will be reading in the near future comes from them.Tales of Secret Egypt is another collection of short stories by prolific author Sax Rohmer that does not involve his arch-fiend Fu Manchu.
I might re-read this collection some day.Three (3.0) solid Stars for the intrigue and the fun of watching Abu Tabah outsmart, outwit, and best Pasha Kernaby.You can get this book for free from the Gutenberg Project site.
Most of the stories are about the same two characters,Iman Abu-Tabah, and his friend, an unnamed, unscrupulous Englishman who works on commission for a shady company called Moses, Murphy &Co."purveyors of fake antiquities".
Abu-Tabah is a very likable Muslim clergyman, kindly and tolerant, not at all fanatic.
His relationship with the Englishman is like that of kindly adult towards a mischievous child of whom he is very fond but knows that he can't be trusted for one moment.
More than once he thwarts the Englishman's plans in a firm but gentle manner, sometimes saving his life.
review of Sax Rohmer's Tales of Secret Egypt by tENTATIVELY, a cONVENIENCE - June 17, 2013 My old friend Blaster Al Ackerman, the great writer, cartoonist, mail artist, & trickster philosopher, died on March 17th, 2013.
Given that Rohmer (aka Arthur Henry Sarsfield Ward) was born in Birmingham, Kernaby's depiction as a thieving businessman seems more indicative of a 'British Peril'.
In Rohmer's tale, this hieroglyph is part of a warning to Kernaby Pasha from Abu Tabah.
It's difficult to separate the attitude of the author from those of his narrators.
Is the casually racist statements--particularly those toward sub-Saharan Africans--a reflection on Rohmer, on the narrator, or on the expectations of the audience?
A curiosity is the relationship of his (European) narrator Kernaby, a shameless and entertaining rogue, and the clever and, increasingly shown, upstanding Abu Tabah.
All the stories trended to compromised European narration: jaded, villainous, or credulous and star-struck.At the very least, Rohmer is a strong, steady hand for intricate and adventurous plotting, and for the verisimilitude of his Cairo and the people who live there.
This book should be removed from GoodReads. It is full of racism, but the clincher is the white male argument for tourism pedophilia in one of the stories from circa 1900.
Cracking stories! Rohmer clearly loves drawing on Arabic settings and tales, and they're filled with excitement and adventure. If you're only familiar with his Fu Manchu series, then give these a try.
read some time in 1991
Early effort by Sax Rohmer, One of my favorite authors. Short story collection set in Egypt during early British Colonialism. Not up to his later efforts.
This book of short stories was fun, but important, or infamous, for another reason. It is the first book I read entirely on my phone. Sigh.
Sax Rohmer's stories are usually fun over the top slightly racist pieces, here all too often he takes things seriously. The best of the bunch is In The Valley Of The Sorceress.
