https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1363629.The_Mystery_of_Banshee_Towers
ένα από τα 2-3 καλύτερα της αγαπημένης μου παιδικής σειράς, παραμένει δροσερό και πλακατζίδικο μετά από τόσα χρόνια. ο Φρέντυ ήταν άνετα ένας από τους ήρωες της παιδικής μου ηλικίας
Meanwhile Ern has also come to the village, staying once again with Mr Goon, as one of his sisters has the measles, and this time around he’s brought with him his very own dog Bingo, who not only the children but also Buster takes to instantly.
This one lacked quite a few of the ‘trademark’ elements of the findouters stories, Fatty not disguising himself even once, and the children not pranking Mr Goon (the second bit was more welcome, because as I’ve been noticing this time around, they do tend to unnecessarily bother him, and do interfere with his work), except one little trick at the end.
ENID BLYTON NEVER GETS BORING!!Reading an Enid Blyton's novel is like revisiting the childhood days.
Every time i delve into Enid Blyton's world,i feel a longing to be one of her characters.Even after having read so many authors,i still feel she is among the most vivid authors i have come across.
This story is all about how they work out the case!I especially cherished the character of Fatty for his wit and humor.Overall it was a very content read!
Ini pertama kali saya membaca buku karangan Enid Blyton dan rasanya langsung jatuh cinta.
Dibandingkan dengan Misteri Nuri Gagap yang kasusnya sudah jelas dari awal (hilangnya burung nuri), buku ini justru memancing pembaca untuk mencari tahu apa kasusnya: pasti sesuatu yang berhubungan dengan Banshee Tower.
Dan tiap lembarannya membuat saya makin ingin tahu dan ikutan menebak: apa kasusnya, kenapa dan siapa?
Dan lagoi-lagi tebakan saya tidak tepat benar hahaha...Dari sisi teknis, sinopsis belakangnya menjebak nich...
tujuh orang anak dan dua ekor anjing!
Sampai akhir saya menunggu anak ketujuh kok ga nongol-nongol hahaha...
Dan saya agak dibuat mengernyit di beberapa bagian.
This was a book I bought a few months ago and never read before putting it away. I always enjoy stories about Fatty and the others, but I guess I assumed I'd already read this one when I in fact hadn't. I liked how quickly the mystery was wrapped up, and the story behind it all. Ern is a delight, with his Coos and whatnot. Goon is as loveable a bungler as ever. The Mystery of Banshee Towers, like all Enid Blyton books, five stars!
It is really an interesting one. I should say that it is the best one by Enid Blyton in the mystery series.
Seri Enyd Blynton kayaknya disusun berurutan sesuai kadar gawat-tidaknya. Sapta Siaga menurut saya yang paling ringan. Disusul dengan Pasukan Mau Tahu, lalu serial Lima Sekawan, kemudian dipuncaki oleh seri Petualangan. Sungguh beruntung mereka yang berkesempatan membaca semua seri ini di masa kecil dan remajanya. Buat yang belum, tidak ada kata terlambat untuk berkelana ke lembah rahasia, menelusuri lorong bawah tanah, dan mengejar kereta api hantu bersama Dinah, Bets, dan Fatty.
A great story (well, all the books in the series are). One of my absolute favourite Enid Blyton stories. Ever.
The Mystery of Banshee Towers was the best novel in all of the five find outer series...worth reading..cheers!!
i like this book i want read once more !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
The first ever novel that I read. This one sparked my interest in reading fiction. Nothing like a nice warm Enid Blyton novel, when you're in high school!
nice book to read
Liked it!!!!
last partnooooooi want more
Ern is over visiting Goon again, the crew are bored so determine to visit local attractions (they're that type of child) and settle on Banshee Towers as it has a 'great collection of sea art'.
Even the banshee is nothing but a mechanical device used by the turnstile operator in order to slope off home early.Ern and Fatty somehow end up trussed like two chickens by the nasty foreign owner, but of course Fatty manages to release them and the stolen painting is recovered.
Very little action, very little involvement of the other Find Outers and hardly the best way to end a very enjoyable (even as an adult re-reading the collection) series.
Kisah petualangan yang berakhir menjadi kisah penyelidikan ala- ala detektif dari pasukan mau tahu. Ini novel pertama yang gw baca dan kyknnya novel- novel berikutnya menyajikan cerita penyelidikan dari pasukan mau tahu.selain cerita tentang penyelidikan anak- anak tersebut ada pesan yang menurut gw menarik untuk dicermati yaitu, mengenai etika. Bagaimana membaca surat orang walaupun dia penjahat menjadi hal yang tak baik untuk dilakukan. Kemudian Keteraturan dari peraturan yang sada dalam wilayah tersebut meneurut gw menarik untuk dicermati.
I will miss reading these, I really wish there was more. I would of love to have read when Fatty was older and joined Inspector Jenks.
Yet another enjoyable Blyton mystery
Curiousity and childhood times... Lovely
It was brilliant! I loved it!
amazing
"What's happening now?
How is it something always happens when that fat boy is about?", he grunts.
You see if I don't!"  I always get nostalgic when I read  Ms. Blyton's  books.
Her books make me transcend into my childhood days and the beautiful, fragrant memories I grew up with.
I remember, I used to sit outside on the cot during winter holidays and read her books.
I do not think I need to familiarise the readers with her style of writing.
I wish there were more like her today.
Our generation and the upcoming generations need prolific writers like her.
agak bingung baca cover belakang edisi ini...ditulis "Saksikan bagaimana tujuh anak plus dua anjing memecahkan misteri yang luar biasa itu!"tapi kalo dihitung cuma ada enam anak (Fatty, Pip, Bets, Larry, Daisy & Ern) plus dua anjing (Buster & Bingo)...trus yang satu anak lagi ke mana?anyway...ceritanya terlalu terfokus pada Fatty dan sedikit Ern...lalu anak-anak yang lain ngapain ya? cuma figuran? apa cuma nemenin Fatty naek sepeda? hehehe...bagaimanapun, ini buku kenangan masa kecil...zaman di mana kalau mau baca buku pilihannya sangat terbatas, perpustakaan atau toko buku (numpang baca doang, gak sanggup beli...)
3 starsThe last book in the series written by Enid Blyton,The Five Find-Outers and Dog.I had always loved reading these books by Enid Blyton but this last book did not reach my expectations.I had assumed that the author would give us an amazing conclusion to the series but unfortunately,that did not happen.Anyways,goodbye the Five Find-Outers and Dog!
A nice book but was of lower standard than the fine normal standard enid blyton has.I would recommend this book to 10-12 year olds.It does not have the same gripping action as the hardy boys has but it has more of thinking and new tricks in it.
Whenever you get bored or out of books 'ENID BLYTON' is the best author to keep ourselves thrilled no matter how old you might be but you just cant stop reading,loving the 'FIVE FIND-OUTERS AND THE DOG."AS USUAL FATTY IS AT HIS BEST.
This seems more like an extremely watered down Famous Five adventure than a Find-Outers mystery. The characterisation is poor, the pace is too slow and the plot is weak. As with other Blyton books from the '60s, this one is inglorious, verging on unreadable.
Great novel..
it was nice but now i have realized it....they are growing KIDDISH!!
Laatste boek van de reeks. Beetje vergezocht maar leest vlot.
