https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57045.Downbelow_Station
But if you were to take the glass of whiskey and mix it with a gallon of water, then you will likely not even taste the whiskey.If an author takes a great idea and then adds five hundred pages to it, it may be too watered down.Too damn long.C.J. Cherryh's Hugo Award winning space opera novel about a far future Earth and its far flung colonial system and how the farthest out colonies go rogue and of the space station in the middle that tries to stay neutral but can’t and there are cutesy poo aliens who talk like intellectually challenged Ewoks who help out and then there are some assassin clones who have memory problems and then … and then ..
There is an entry in Science Fiction: The Illustrated Encyclopedia regarding Downbelow Station.
Neither is this a military science fiction novel from a tactical point of view.
This is a very good novel that just happens to be a Science Fiction novel.
It is one of the most realistic science fiction novels I've read, too, in its depiction of life on a space station.
I would recommend this novel to anybody, especially science fiction readers, with a decent attention span.
It is a good starting point for readers yet unfamiliar with her work, as it has been written as a stand-alone and is the first to set up her Alliance-Union universe: the history of mankind escaping the bounds of its home planet, colonizing the galaxy, coming into contact with alien civilizations and overcoming its self-destructing, predatory, warmongering instincts.The opening chapter is a necessary setting up of the scene, an infodump of the future history of our civilization, first with Newtonian spaceships and small steps, jumping from one planetary station to the next, and later with faster-than-light travel and a greater liberty of movement.
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my HUGO WINNERS list.This is the reading list that follows the old adage, "if it ain't broke, don't fix it". I loved reading the Locus Sci-Fi Award winners so I'm going to crack on with the Hugo winners next (but only the post-1980 winners, I'll follow up with
I loved reading the Locus Sci-Fi Award winners so I'm going to crack on with the Hugo winners next (but only the post-1980 winners, I'll follow up with pre-1980 another time).4 and 5 star reviews are easy to write, you just need to articulate all the reasons you loved a book.1 and 2 star reviews are easy to write, you just need to articulate all the reasons you didn't like a book.It's these 3 star reviews I find hardest.If you've never read any Cherryh, you need to know what you're getting into before you start - if you're not in the right headspace you may well be frustrated and disappointed by her style.This is space opera territory - a galactic war between the rag-tag fleet of diehard Earth loyalists and the shiny clone-army future of the new frontier.
Executive Summary: If you like politics and war in a sci-fi setting where the focus is on the people and not the battles, this book is worth checking out. If you're looking for a lot of space battles however, you may be disappointed. Full Review I read this book as the March pick for Sword & Laser. It's still early in the month but so far most of the discussion seems to be in the Is anyone else having a hard time getting started? thread. I must say I don't really understand this.Sure this bo
Executive Summary: If you like politics and war in a sci-fi setting where the focus is on the people and not the battles, this book is worth checking out.
If you're looking for a lot of space battles however, you may be disappointed.
Mostly because the latter had a lot more space battles.
I like a good space battle as much as the next sci-fi geek, but it's not a requirement for me.What this books does have is political-driven agendas, greed, ambition, and a surprising amount of compassion (at least from some of the characters).
It’s an intense, claustrophobic, gritty space opera with a huge cast of hard-nosed characters battling to survive the Machiavellian intrigues of freelance Merchanters, Earth bureaucrats, Company fleet captains, Pell station administrators, Union space forces, secret agents, stationers, and (incongruously) cuddly Downer aliens.
I emphasize the word effort, because it takes some serious concentration to keep track of all the moving pieces, and Cherryh’s tough, muscular prose and clipped dialogue only reveal enough to keep the reader and characters guessing who is friend or foe, when alliances will be suddenly betrayed, and when help may come from unexpected sources.Several reviews of Downbelow Station complain that it is too dense and complex, the characters too unsympathetic, and the buildup too slow.
I really like the way she writes aliens and the Hisa/Downers in Downbelow Station were yet another notch on the positive side of the score board.
They definitely had their own thought processes and ways of communication, very foreign from those of human beings.
There are two schools of thought among the human population—treat the Hisa harshly and force them to do things the human way or recognize them as beings in their own right and get things done through co-operation.
And aren’t modern city dwellers equivalent in many ways to residents on space stations—out of touch with the natural world, surrounded by human construction and noise, and glued to their various man-made communication devices?
4.0 to 4.5 stars. Superb world-building, fantastic character development and excellent writing are the highlight of this Hugo award winning novel. Nobody does complex geopolitical plots like Cherryh and this is a great example. Classic space opera by a master writer. Winner: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1982)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1982)
Detailed worldbuilding, engaging political intrigue, deep plot and story line, large cast of POV characters with complex relationships, macro socio-political and socioeconomic themes.So why have I given this 3 stars instead of 5.
Unfortunately I couldn’t find a physical copy anywhere.But beyond that, Cherryh’s writing style is very concise – too concise for me because I thought the character conversations sounded like they were reading from a script and it just didn’t grab me at all.
The other possible exception would be the Hisa, Pell’s indigenous aliens who spoke a kind of patois and so the style suited their broken English quite well.Still, there is a lot to like about this book.
You’ll also have trouble understanding the differences between merchanter, stationer, Company soldier and Unionist, which is all important for how the characters act.DRAMATIS PERSONAE: The following are the chief characters in the novel; the ones from who’s points of view the story is told.Damon Konstantin: The Konstantin’s are the preeminent family on Pell, part of the original colony.
In the riots that erupt when the Company moves in on the station, she winds up fleeing with the merchanters and becomes instrumental in changing the balance of power between Union, Pell and Earth.Emilio Konstantin: Emilio is the oldest son of the family, and in charge of Downbelow when the station falls – first to an internal coup and then to the Mazianni.Jon Lukas: If there’s a consistent villain in Downbelow, it’s Jon Lukas, the head of a rival station clan.
I haven't tried her books since I was a teenager, when I stubbed my toe on one of her other books, found it opaque, and didn't try again.
I'm glad I have given her another chance now, but I still find her books a bit, well, not opaque anymore, but a bit distant.
However, under all that, they're really strong science fiction books, and if you can keep plugging until you make that connection, they're rewarding.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
It also seemed like the longest 330 page book I have ever read.
My biggest fear through the whole book was something terrible happening to the hisaThere were some characters I cared quite a bit about (Josh, the Konstantins, the Downers) and there were others who I had to remember who they were every time they were mentioned.
So I spent a lot of time wondering which character belonged to which faction if they were off-station.While we had 2 clear villains in Lukas and Mazian, I felt like almost everyone else was some shade of grey.
The Fleet is pushed further and further back, until at last the battle reaches the space station orbiting Pell.
Pell's station tries to remain neutral while both sides try to take it over.
First of all, Pell's native creatures, the hisa, talk like this: "'You safe come here.
Second of all, a large proportion of the story concerns Josh, a Union soldier captured by the Fleet and eventually turned over the space station on Pell.
On the very same station, at the very same time, that they're petting him and denouncing the Fleet for being mean to him, neutral civilians are being raped, brutalized and murdered.
This quote from the introduction by C.J. Cherryh grabbed me right away:"So if you look up at night toward the Whale and the Great River, those of you who can find that view at night, you can see the very places I write about.
If you look up at any two starry points of light in your own sky, you can very easily think of ships going between them, and those ships full of life and commerce, each ship with its own story, maybe human and maybe not.
Some cool, clear night, drive to a country place where city lights don't block your view.
Sure, it's ultra-dense, and Cherryh prefers to build the world through subtle hints for an attentive reader to pick up and put together.
This is how we should want our books.
I pressed an icon on the screen and the pressure sensitive display responded by bringing up a composition screen.
I quickly typed out a message using a keyboard that appeared on the screen, then hit the send icon.
Now here's how Cherryh would write that scene.I texted by sister, "Want to meet up for dinner?"Clearly the latter is how someone in the modern world would write about their everyday life.
This remains one of my favorite books. Cherryh works on a large canvas here, combining interstellar war and political intrigue and complex, sympathetic (or not so sympathetic) characters, all in a future that feels "lived in" -- I almost feel like I've walked Pell Station's echoing docks, heard the crash of seals as merchanters came in to berth, been slammed against my seat as Norway pulls a high-G course shift. Fortunes rise and fall, alliances shift, loyalties are tested, and the end comes at a pace that seems breathless without being rushed. Highly, highly recommended.
But it works very good as a Hard-SF and I think I've never read a better example of live on a space station.It is a quite complex novel with multiple interleaving plots involving lots of characters playing political games.The story starts very dry, which made me think of reading a newspaper article.
But you won't find romance, melodrama or even much action which I usually associate with space opera.And in the last 100 pages it ends in a fire-work of tense action and turnarounds contrasting the slow first half of the book.Characterization is very good and never black&white.
She not only describes a very realistic view of life aboard a large and complex space station but introduces us to the politics around the Earth based Sol Company, which up to now has controlled space expansion and the space stations and the rebel Union, a new force aiming to free the stations from the Company's control and the Merchanter families who are independent but may not be able to remain so and survive the war.There is a large cast of characters and for me the novel started fairly slowly but once the action began it was fast and furious and I was glad that the author had taken the time to set the scene so that I had a good grip on what was happening and who was involved in this complex story.


Downbelow Station is set in a crisis point in this future history, where the forces of Earth, the deep space Union, and the independent merchant Alliance, reach a new balance of power around the vital Pell Station and it's planet.
Our heroes, the kind and liberal Konstantin family, try and protect their people from the shadows, while hard-edged types maneuver around them.This story repeatedly asks the question "who are you loyal to?" and "what sustains you?" Occasionally Cherryh has an interesting answer.
Cherryh's setting-building assumption that both Station and Merchanter leadership would center around the first families of whatever respective tin-can people live in is a sound one.
If you’re going to say you know something about the science fiction genre (and for my own odd reasons I want to be able to say that*), you have to read C.J. Cherryh.
Downbelow Station is a book about war.
I am all for books that assume the reader can draw his or her own conclusions, but when you’re asking the reader to draw conclusions about the way spaceflight works three hundred years in the future, or how an alien race will behave, its helpful to give some clues.
The sequel to Downbelow Station, Cyteen, is on my massive to read list, but I think after finishing this one, it is going to have to wait a while.
Very good, loved it.
Great space opera, plus some wonderful alien life on the planet below.
Good pacing and characters, descriptive and clever.
One of the best parts of the story is the wonderful, truly beautiful "hisa" species - the aliens on the planet Pell.
Since this was written originally in 1980-81, the computer and technology "of the future" is very dated (with printouts being used etc), but this is still a great story, worth reading.
As much as I wanted to, I just couldn't get anywhere with this book. Sometimes you just have to surrender and admit that a book just isn't to your taste. I started getting intrigued a little once we found out who Josh really is, but wherever I'd put the book down, I just felt no inclination to pick it up again. Time to move on.
I mean Aliens live.
Above it, there is Pell station, run by an emphatic family, Konstantins.
The station is thrust in the middle of Union- Company - Fleet struggle, that leaves Pell with thousands of refugees they manage very poorly, and lack of resources which they try to gather...
I mean, thousands of people come out of the ships full of decaying bodies and it only goes downhill from that.
I was constantly reminded of the refugees today, and our governments who treat them similarly, or even worse than Konstantins.
It took me about 200 pages to really get into this one: I'm not used to hard political science fiction, and keeping track of the various parties vying for control of a space station (and their ever-changing loyalties) was a bit of a challenge.
One that definitely paid off--Ms. Cherryh managed to maintain the suspense for *hundreds* of pages and then top it off with a very satisfying ending.Also, I have to note: this is how you write good female characters.
Captain Signy Mallory is probably one of science fiction's greatest female characters, right up there with Lois McMaster Bujold's Cordelia Vorkosigan.
Para leer antes de la trilogía de Cyteen, una buena historia sobre como las personas acaban entorpeciendo las grande estrategias si están en el lugar y momento adecuado. Un ejemplo de cómo las naciones acaban abandonando a sus soldados en guerras olvidadas, en conflictos perdidos. Me recuerda a los Últimos de Filipinas.
It has a really interesting setting: a space station which is trying to survive and stay neutral in the midst of an interstellar war.
The war is being fought by a fleet of warships built by Earth, and forces from a Union of human settlements further out in the galaxy.The setting is the best part of the book, which is long and rather gloomy, without a flicker of humor.
I’m interested enough to try one more of Cherryh’s books in this universe, though, just because I like space ships and space stations.
I read this book the first time when I was quite young.
I remember that I really enjoyed the book, but I was maybe too young (not enough life experience) to really "get" some of the character motivation and what-not.
This time, I chose to re-read Heavy Time and Hellburner before revisiting this book.
Cherryh provides full and competent female characters, as well as men who admit vulnerability; very real people.
Cherryh also does an excellent job of showing the different shades of people; not simply "good guy" and "bad guy".
Despite it taking me almost a month to read, I really enjoyed Downbelow Station.
It just took me until the middle part to really get hooked by it.
The evolving conflict between Company-Union was really interesting and its a world I would jump back into to see where it progresses.
I didn't really understand the Downer 'dreamers' but that didn't seem to be plot-centric.Fun fact: My favourite character was Signy Mallory, and I feel that most people would be inclined to dislike her.
I just felt her leadership style was logical, in contrast to the rest of the Fleet captains.
