https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/226460.The_Simulacra
Published two years after the Hugo award winning The Man in the High Castle, The Simulacra may have been a pulpier version of the science fiction classic, as PKD further explored an alternate history theme of fascist domination.
The Simulacra is also reminiscent of Heinlein’s The Cat Who Walks Through Walls (published in 1985, so was Heinlein influenced by PKD?).
Like the best of PKD, The Simulacra features an eclectic blend of pulp science fiction awesomeness – time travel, Oedipal references, Neanderthals, android politicians, Nazis in togas, telekinetic, hypochondriac musicians, telepathic Martian bugs and a classical jug band duo.
When TUPWARIC gives the contract for building the next simulacrum to a different simulacrum company, and Hermann Goering is fetched from the past with a time-travel device, problems ensue and the USEA government is in danger of being taken over by fascists.Quirky characters include the First Lady who never seems to age, the telekinetic piano player who thinks that a commercial has given him phobic body odor and that he’s becoming invisible, the psychotherapist who has lost his job because a pharmaceutical cartel has managed to have the practice of psychotherapy banned, a couple of brothers who work for simulacra companies and are fighting over an ex-wife, and a couple of guys in a jug band who want to play for the First Lady.
And like a lot of his books, all over the place: sentient alien tape recorders, neanderthals coming back to life, transporting car lots that sell junk space ships to send you to mars, time traveling, variety shows and jug bands, pet aliens, illegal psychiatrists, simulacra neighbors and government, spam flies, telekinetic hypochondriac pianists and all sorts of wacky stuff I've probably forgotten all about.
It's probably silly to complain about realism and logic in a Dick story, but for the most part I can suspend my disbelief, or change it in accordance with the world he creates.
Plus there are some great, further out there concepts, like the jalopies that can fly you to Mars, but not back, and the simulacra themselves.
I don't think I have ever been more desperate to see a storyline end than when she was told directly that she'd go with who she was told, her own feelings on the matter be damned.So we have good concepts, but with characters who are uninspiring and a story with little payoff.
But it's worth the read, if only for the scene at the end of the book with the resurgent Neanderthals.
Disjointed and rambling tale of government and corporate plots.
The USEA (US and Germany) Government is run by an actress and an android.
Emigration to Mars now takes place in homemade and technically illegal craft called jalopies.
The book contains most of the usual suspect PKD ideas; time travel, Nazis, androids, paranoia, people not who they seem to be, government plots, corporate plots, etc.There are a ton of great ideas and I enjoyed the book however it is a bit more rambling than some of PKD's better books.
It is worth reading but I wouldn't place it too high on the list.
On a personal note, I also like what Dick writes about the Israeli Premier, because it shows that he has a clear understanding of the special situation of this little country which often depends on itself for its mere survival:”It was not customary for him to cringe before anyone; he had come a long way to this post, and success for him would not have been possible if he had been made any other way but this His was not a position for a coward; Israel was – had always been – a small nation, existing among huge blocks that could, at any given moment, efface her.”This is, of course, a minor detail in a novel which is, strictly speaking, all over the place, but it struck me as a very likeable one.
K. Dick'ten yine bol komplolu siyasi bir bilimkurgu. Ancak bu kez içinde her türden BK ögesi var; zaman yolculuğu var, robotlar var, paralel evrenler var, üstün yetenekli mutantlar var, ışınlanma var; var oğlu var. Bu yüzden de, biraz amaç eksikliği -ve araç fazlalığı- çekiyor bence. Yine de her zamanki gibi çok güzel."Politik gücün asıl temeli nedir, biliyor musunuz? Silahlar ya da askerler değil, insanlara yapmalarını istediğiniz şeyi yaptırabilmektir. Her ne yolla olursa olsun."
Philip K. Dick is known for strange ideas and equally bizarre writing. This is not an exception. I didn't quite get what he was trying to say in this and sad to say I didn't overly enjoy it due to the unusual and hard to follow ideas and plot. He's an author whose books I always greatly like or dislike.
non c'è motivo di discutere i gusti degli altri, soprattutto alle otto del mattino.
P.K.Dick, I SimulacriPrimo libro di Dick che leggo.Al di là della cura del testo, il libro mi è piaciuto.
Anche se I Simulacri mi è stato spiegato non essere una sua opera maggiore, ho trovato la storia coinvolgente e, soprattutto, ci sono degli spunti veramente interessanti.
Interessanti le idee, interessante lo sviluppo di alcuni personaggi.Non entro nel dettaglio perché non riuscirei a non essere “spoilerosa”; mi limito solo a dire che, se questo non sarà l'inizio di una lunga storia d'amore, sarà di certo l'inizio di un'assidua frequentazione!
En un futuro en el que la tecnología, los fármacos y la política intrusiva de las corporaciones han entrado en la sociedad y en los propios individuos, Nat Flieger es un empleado de la Electronic Music Entreprise que debe encargarse del contrato de grabación de un famoso y elusivo músico psicocinético soviético, Egon Superb es uno de los pocos doctores que todavía aplica el obsoleto psicoanálisis y que además está a punto de ser declarado ilegal aunque sea cada vez más necesario en realidad, Vince Strikerock es un burócrata profesional comprometido con que la asamblea general del gran bloque comunal de apartamentos Abraham Lincoln se desarrolle a la perfección y nadie la estropee con preguntas o comentarios fuera de lugar, e Ian Duncan es un estudioso de la Historia fascinado con los cambios políticos y sociales que habían tenido lugar en el mundo a lo largo de los años, pero en especial los de su propio país, donde es la Primera Dama la que realmente ostenta el poder pero donde algunos desean subvertir el orden de las cosas.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
According to my careful count, the book features no less than 56 named characters (not to mention several unnamed), and the manner in which Dick interweaves their stories in an ingenious manner is one of the book's main strengths.In the crazy world that Dick depicts, the U.S. and Germany have merged to become the U.S.E.A.; the country is in awestruck love of First Lady Nicole Thibodeaux, who has somehow remained ageless for her 73 years in office (a character most likely based on then-First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy); giant drug and simulacra (think: robots identical to humans) cartels hold almost limitless power; northern California has turned into a "chupper"- (think: radiation mutant) filled rain forest as a result of atomic war; and the government is able to make use of the von Lessinger principle to travel backward and forward in time.
Ian Duncan, who also lives at the Abraham Lincoln, persuades his old friend Al Miller to perform in a talent contest at the Abraham Lincoln in hopes of being invited to perform at the White House for beloved First Lady Nicole Thibadeaux.
They win the talent contest and go to the White House and perform for First Lady Nicole.
He also decides to emigrate to Mars and finds his way to Al Miller at Loony Luke's jalopy lot.
I won't go into the scene with National Police Commissioner Wilder Pembroke at Loony Lukes jalopy lot with Al, Chic, Kongrosian and Ian, among others.
The book written today, Black Hole, is set in the 70's and Philip K.
I hoped that Dick would move beyond this image of the future as it must have looked like during the Cold War to elaborate on political hypocrisy, power games and popular apathy in a way that feels relevant for today.
The popularity of Freud and psychoanalysis, for example, comes through in both the plot and the character development in a way that feels old and dusty.
Lame.The Simulacra was perhaps not the best of Philip K Dick's books.

“In individuals, insanity is rare; but in groups, parties, nations and epochs, it is the rule.” ― Friedrich Nietzsche Like a lot of Dick's novels, 'The Simulacra' was messy.
I mean messy and complex and absurd and filled with fractals and digressions.
Genius in parts, yes.
But mostly messy genius.
Dr. Superb, the only remaining psychotherapist in a world filled with the crazy and cranky.
He wrote this novel like he just invented the 3 or 4 main characters, starved them a bit, and set them on a collision course and, of course, sat back and watched and wrote.
Nadherne napisana predpoved posttruth spolocnosti. Mali sme to cakat.
Musicisti psionici, mercanti itineranti di astronavi, fabbriche che assemblano presidenti, neanderthal generati da fallout atomici, viaggi temporali, embargo della psicanalisi, colpi di stato... I simulacri contiene oggettivamente troppo per poco più di duecento pagine. Più che un romanzo sembra di leggere un'antologia di racconti condensata, ovviamente a scapito di una trama chiara e di personaggi ben strutturati. Innegabilmente però qualsiasi scrittore di fantascienza avrebbe tratto abbastanza materiale per un paio di saghe dopo dieci minuti nella testa di PKD.
While there was a lot to admire in this story, I don't think it represents Dick's best.
Dick has a lot 'right' in this novel...
He sees America joining up with Europe to become USEA (United States of Europe and America).
Mexico and Canada is more likely.
Let's see, USCMA (United States of Canada, Mexico and America).
a bigger conglomerate, with a lot less freedom and liberty.
I liked that.
Anyway, like I said, I don't think this is his best, but I made sure I finished it.
A fine mind and writer like Dick deserves to be paid attention to.
All the elements were there - exclusive time travel, dissatisfied middle-aged men whose society keeps the wool firmly tucked over their frustrated eyes, bungling psys, wry humour, a totalitarian political system of control, a keen sensitivity for the arts, nazis, baits and switches, and just enough future lingo to leave me wanting more...
All the elements of the story felt a little disjointed, a bunch of clever ideas tangled together, but no warmth of connection and settling-into-place as the story progressed.
An ominous future hinted at, but not illuminated, little of that fascinating depth of psychology I look forward to when reading PKD's work.
I read this on amphetamines and while I don't think that is very relevant to this review I do think that there is some type of energy force that feeds on our energy force and honestly it's not so farfetched to think that our leader is secretly an android but mostly I guess I just believe in the truth this book presents but only as far as a shard of truth is true, ya feel?
Lu dans l'édition Robert Laffont.
Достаточно злободневный замысел, но вот техническое исполнение и антураж весьма странные.
Every four years the president changes, but it seems that with the post of ruling the USEA (I'll come to that) comes a marriage to Nicole as well.It's for her that the Be's do what they do.What about the USEA?
It's not an America we know, but an alternate reality where the US and Germany have fused together.There's more than that alone that makes this story quite chaotic.Equipment to travel in time is available to the Ge's.
Mental illness needs to be cured by drugs only.Actually the USEA is ruled by a number of kartels, (AG Chemie, Karp Sohn und Werken,..) and how they face their own extinction.Still, pretty chaotic.

Na knize cením fakt, že z ní vyzařuje autorova chuť psát tak, jak je mu příjemné. Nenapsal ji prvoplánově, aby stvořil megahit. Takový hit může časem zapadnout. Myslím si, že si psaní musel hodně užívat.
5/10
Definitely not one of his best works. Parts I enjoyed like the Theodoras Nitz commercials, but the ending kind of fizzled out for me.
Didn't breeze through this one.
It's a pretty drawn out story, probably because there's so many random story arcs which Dick doesn't try too hard to tie together thankfully.
Really hate stories that have story arcs that they try to tie together like a big reveal or something, whereas here they just teleport Nicole into the random side one.
Like you know how the arcs are somewhat related since the beginning.
& we don't get to know if this world's Mars is a dystopia like the rest of Dick's novels.
Novel ideas of this one is telepathic ads
The Simulacra is PKD's grand, panoramic novel.
We meet Nicole Thibodeaux, the First Lady of the United States and the most powerful woman in the world; Richard Kongrosian, a psycho-kinetic musician who performs without touching the keyboard; and Looney Luke, semi-legal dealer in jalopies, outdated spacecraft good enough for a one-way trip to Mars.
PKD didn't write grand, panoramic novels.
But even though Kongrosian is a hypochondriac he still has the power to psycho-kinetically transport one of Nicole's gun-wielding agents to the White House laundry room when necessary.
The more PKD I read, the more astonished I am that 'Electric Sheep' is the one he's so well known for - Simulacrum is another perfect example of a sci-fi writer years ahead of his time, writing of a dystopian future where cartels hold the upper hand via government contracts and everyone's freedom and free-choice is subtly eroded via their own votes.
