https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1640223.Destination
Far Centaurus (4.0 stars): Great short story that describes the 500 year journey of four astronauts from Earth to Alpha Centauri, accomplished by means of an "Eternity Drug" that puts the crew to sleep for 50 years at a pop and from which the awake periodically to check the instruments before returning to sleep.
The first half of this story was really amazing and would have gotten 5 stars as the atmosphere created by Van Vogt of the 500 year journey to Alpha Centauri was superb.
The end of the story was a little weaker but still good enough to get 4 stars overall.
An interesting collection of short stories by Van Vogt written with his customary simple writing but great ideas and a flair for making things stand off the page. Every story makes you think it'll go one way and it does, in it's own way.Not many authors could craft a story about an alien tin of paint and be interesting; Van Vogh manages it just fine.
The book that made me an avid science fiction reader
A wonderful collection of short stories by Van Vogt. Many of them clearly set the stage for themes or characters in Null-A and the War Against the Rull.
This book made a huge impression on me as a youth.
Of course, it is set up to sustain martian life, so some adjustments will need to be made… 4 out of 5A Can Of Paint - 2/5Astounding Science Fiction - September 1944.Great things were expected of Venus.
2 out of 5The Rulers - 2/5Astounding Science Fiction - March 1944.’Science,’ the plump man was saying, ‘has made such strides since the war that it’s already possible to foresee a time when everything we do, or use in any way, will be either completely artificial, artificially enhanced, supernatural, or better than the original.’Espionage, derring-do and futuristic mind-control drugs.
4 out of 5The Search - 4/5Astounding Science Fiction - January 1943.’Mind you’ - the admission came almost reluctantly - ‘they’ve got some wonderful things.
I do miss the balls-out sci fi of the golden age.
Go spaceships!
Go aliens!Now if the characters would just stop patting women patronizingly on the head.
And thinking of us as decorative.
sheesh!
I guess I should appreciate that it's OK for me to be utile in this day and age.
Although it did bring up the memory of the head ref mansplaining to me the rules of backstroke turns when I was stroke judging summer league.
And the fact that they complained about my judging subsequent to me...
let's just say...
resisting be mansplained to?
These are the only A E van Vogt stories I've read.
The author wrote in 1500-word chunks and made sure something gripping happened in each one, which is likely to be a fruitful approach although I haven't tried it.
He's also been described as "a midget using a giant's typewriter", in that he uses scale in terms of space and time to wow his readership but in the end it's all fluff and doesn't mean anything.
It's like he's gone through a history book, changed all the names to something spacy-sounding and added a nought to the end of the dates.

Destination: Universe is a collection of late 40's/early 50's hard science fiction short stories by A.E. Van Vogt. The prose is clumsy and the plotting is often second rate, but the ideas are so far out and crazy that it's worth a read. Most of the stories originally appeared in John W. Campbell's Astounding.
These episodes, reminiscent of Ridley Scott’s vision of space travel, lead us to Alpha Centauri and the realisation that the crew hadn’t got their fast enough.Far Centaurus is a great introduction to the work of VogtThe Monster (1948)3/5An alien race descends on a planet only to discover that the beings that once lived there have been destroyed.
During their attempt to find out what caused the global extinction, the guests awaken something far more dangerous than they had planned for.Dormant (1948)3/5Military forces come across a mysterious object during a mission on a remote island and decide to take a closer look.
I think it would be worth more people's time to go back and read more of the 'founding fathers' of science fiction.My favorite story in the collection was "The Enchanted Village." Written in 1950, it plays with what would later become a meme among shows like The Twilight Zone, Outer Limits, etc.
Stories like "The Monster," "Dormant," and "Defense" play upon post-war fear and paranoia in many ways while lightly exploring the Nature of Man and cultural understanding.Overall, the collection presents an excellent opportunity to read excellent 'vintage' science fiction and revel in the aspects of it that have influenced modern literature, the aspects that are humorously dated, and enjoy the moments of brilliance.
I read random articles in Wikipedia while I'm at work, and that's how I learned about A.E. van Vogt. I'm not a big fan of science fiction, but I wanted to try other genres for a change. When I found this book in a used books store, I bought it.There are some stories in this book that I really enjoyed. My favorites are Dear Pen Pal and Far Centaurus. A Can of Paint was also interesting. Some of the stories, nah. I can't even remember what happened in some of those stories. Maybe sci-fi is just not for me.
Libro discreto.Penso che Van Vogt sia molto più a suo agio con gli scritti brevi, piuttosto che con i romanzi.Infatti, i racconti qui presenti sono tutti molto godibili, mentre quello che affossa la media sono i due romanzi brevi."L'assedio degli invisibili" è sufficiente, con un'idea di base carina ma nulla più; "Gli uomini ombra" invece è noioso, arzigogolato senza essere convincente, e alla fine si perde al momento delle spiegazioni, un pò troppo raffazzonate.In conclusione quindi, la metà del libro migliore è quella dei racconti, mentre i due romanzi brevi sono trascurabili.
This book is a collection of ten short science fiction stories by A.E. van Volt. Each story is a stand-alone story and can be read in any order. I was not very familiar with van Volt’s writing and did not know any of these stories but I enjoyed them very much. Each story was very different from each other and very creative. I found it to be a great introduction to van Volt’s fiction.
This book is a collection of short stories from the 1940s so my three star rating is an average for the book.Fascinating to see how the future was imagined so long ago. We have the video phones which show up in several stories but I am still waiting for my flying car damnit.
Too many duplications, and I'm not that great a fan of short stories anyway. However, the one titled Dormant was quite interesting to me having lived in the area it was concerning. Kwajalein, you made science fiction!
http://gnomeship.blogspot.com/2013/05...
1981 grade B+short stories
Short Stories in the Dutch book "De Volmaakte Wens":The Harmonizer, The Second Solution, Film Library, The Monster, Dormant, A Can of Paint, Defence, The Search, The Ultimate Wish
A nice collection of short stories from the "supreme SF entertainer".
Listened to "Enchanted Village".
30/176
The MonsterCan of PaintThe RulersDear Pen-PalThe SoundsAll very good.
Sci-fi 101Don't miss it!
Far Centaurus - 5/5The Monster - 3/5Dormant - 2/5The Enchanted Village - 3/5A Can of Paint - 4/5Defence - 2/5The Rulers - 4/5Dear Pen Pal - 3/5The Sound - 3/5The Search - 3/5
Great way to read one of the old masters of SciFi. Short stories are quick reads and show the man's talents.
Destination Universe by A E Van Vogt (1960)
