https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1643479.Mr_Campion_and_Others
1989— yet another robbery, this time very old silver, an odd wannabe detective with persistence (and talent), and yet another lovely young lady of Campion's acquaintance, lots of fun.1936 10	(The Case of) The Old Man in the Window — a classic "Is he dead, or isn't he?" story, with beautiful characterizations and really good pacing; similar to one of Sayers' most famous novels, though.1938 07	(The Case of) The Frenchman's Gloves — starts out similar to a Holmes story (Man with the Twisted Lip), maneuvers itself almost into a Christie story (The Disappearance of Mr. Davenheim), and then resolves into a neat little con job all Allingham's own.
A frivolous collection of mostly early (1930s) Albert Campion stories that would have originally appeared in publications like The Strand Magazine. The stories are filled with authentic period flavor and are well written and great fun— a treat for Allingham enthusiasts and fans of golden age British detective stories— but they're not very substantive. However, unlike some of the other Allingham short story collections with Mr Campion's name in the title that actually have little to do with that gentleman, this one really is mostly Campion.

Second, I think Allingham and Dorothy Sayers generally wrote more memorable novels than short stories; their novels have more depth and complexity, generally succeeding as both genre fiction and lasting literature, while their short stories show much more evidence of having been written to please a magazine audience.
One can only take so much of that--and fortunately most of the women in the novels aren't like that--so fortunately the stories can be read one or two at a time and enjoyed as lightweight period pieces, literary meringues or baubles or whatnot.
Campion at his best. Really well crafted and enjoyable. Excellent set of Campion stories. They're a decent length and I was kept reading into the early hours. I read all the Campion novels a while back but missed this collection. I'm very pleased to have found it and surprised that it hasn't made it into audio format with the other Campion books. Neat set of problems with a quiet flair. Deceptively simple but rich character depictions and yesteryear so poignant you could buy a souvenir whilst you're there.
Read so far:The case of the widow --The case of the name on the wrapper --The case of the hat trick --The case of the question mark --The case of the old man in the window --The case of the white elephant --The case of the Frenchman's gloves --The case of the longer view aka The crimson letters--2Safe as Houses--The Definite Article--The Meaning of the Act--A Matter of Form--The Danger Point--
Another need for mind candy, another Allingham. This time a volume of collected magazine stories. So although I don't suppose they were meant to be read all at once, it's an unexpected pleasure gradually realising how the same structure gets used over and over again with just enough variation being rung to keep you interested.
Enjoyable collection of short stories. Most have a straightforward structure with a simple twist -- usually due to Campion's omniscience about London high or criminal society. It is often charming but sometimes feels laboured. I'm not sure what makes the difference. At worst Allingham's snobbery is awful, but as period pieces they can be enjoyable.
Not a bad selection of short stories but in my opinion, nothing like as good as her novels. Not much detection; pretty well all the cases were solved by flashes of inspiration or by Campion's intimate knowledge of society people. Disappointingly no sign or mention of Lugg either. Two and a half stars would have been fairer, I think.
A group of short stories starring Mr. Campion that I actually preferred to the longer novels. In a very backhanded compliment way, I think the short story served the writing better, as there was not enough space for the characters and plot to drag. As another reviewer said, once you'd read a couple however, it was increasingly easier to work out the system and twist.
Campion is defenitely a charming detective and the stories were quite nice, too but somehow all worked more or less after the same pattern so it gets a bit dull when you read all short stories in a row.
Fun collection of 13 short stories.
Not bad, a poor man's Peter Wimsey
Paperback has thirteen short stories. I read the first two and was not impressed at all.
Fun short stories with a colorful cast of characters....
like PG Wodehouse with less laughs i.e. a long lost era and class
A collection of Campion short stories that are fairly thin fare, but the language and settings around town kept me going.
A fun read.
