https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1763233.The_Ear_Book
Along with  The Foot Book,  The Tooth Book, and from what I guess,  The Eye Book, this is just a book of rhymes about ears. It has the added focus of onomatopoeia, which is cool (and makes sense, duh!). My 10 month old daughter is OBSESSED with these books, but I'll admit that it's my least favorite of the series (not counting  The Eye Book, since we have yet to read that one.
I love reading to my son and I love hearing him interact with the pictures. After reading him this book I listened to my 2 year old son make his own story to the pictures. Whats more is that my older children read this book when they were his age. Making it a favorite and a classic family memory.
Kids deserve better than this. Decent illustrations, though.
Read this recently in a book store because I was desperate, so...After all, I read it this year. And, personally, I thought it was a very stupid book.ONCE AGAIN... I'm out of here.[image error]
This is a good book for ECE level readers because it talks about ears and all of the many things that ears can hear. It's short and sweet, full of rhymes, and lots of fun for young children.
This book is good for teaching different type of sounds in our environment, like dripping sound of water from the tap, or clapping the hands or tapping the feet. These are usually ignored by the toddlers. They need to be told & taught even the quietest & the loudest sounds & the difference between the two, so that they develop their focus around themselves & become alert if a different type of sound is made..This is the book.. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E0x3U...
One of my favorite books from my childhood! So simple, yet engaging. Almost sing-song to the very end. Onomatopoeia is my favorite way express noise.
Fun rhyming and simple. Also small and easy to carry. We’ve had this for a while now but Au only recently (11 months) started taking an interest and actually choosing it off the shelf.
I read the board book version. Very cute.
Fun read about things we hear.
Wowwwwwwwwwwwwwwowwwwwwwwwowwwwwwwwwowwwwwwwowwwwwwww
A quick read, read by an awesome girl.
A book about ears and what they can do.
fun read
ATOS 0.7
eh ok. not catchy.
5/30/18 Read with Julia.6/1/18 Read with Julia.
The way in which this book presents the material, allows it to become an interactive read.
I would have enjoyed to see less white space, allowing the book to also appeal to a child's sense of sight.
Along with the illustrations, I also had a problem with the fact that the book only addressed one of the five senses.
I would have liked to see it address all five so the reader would be familiar with all of them, not just sound.Even though I saw these issues, they were only minor problems with this picture book.
I love this book!
Author: Al PerkinsIllustrator: William O'BrianFirst Published: 1968From the Dr Suess stable, The Ear Book uses simple rhyme and rhythm in an early reader. It's easy to read... but it's really boring. And some words (flute, snore, bubble) jump out of the reading level being addressed.Age:Read aloud - 3+Read yourself - 5+References:w'pedia Al Perkins: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al_Perki...-CR-
The Ear Book is a great book for nursery aged readers.
Ears, and what we use them for, hearing, are emphasized in this story.
The story is good for young readers because it helps them identify the function of an ear and also what a sound is.
The book has great rhythm, for example "Our ears hear water.
Our ears hear popcorn.
The illustrations help the reader to identify what the sound is, for example, the sink with three droplets of water coming off the spigot.
Dr Seuss' Bright and Early Learning Books have been a timeless books that have withstood the test of time and generations of children! I remember reading this as a beginning reader (40 years ago) and now found it once again for my granddaughter! Fun ways of interacting about 'listening' 'toot toot' "bang bang" 'tweet tweet' a boy and his dog help teach about ears and what important job they do for us.
Synopsis: "Illus. in full color. A boy and his dog listen to the world around them."My Review: I picked this book up because we had the Eye Book and Nose book by the same author and Munchkin loves them. This one was a little bit of a let down unfortunately. Even Hubby mentioned it wasn't as good. There are so many things to hear but the book seems kind of short and empty compared to the other ones.
The book identifies the part of our body that allows us to hear, our ears. The book tells children that we can hear with our ears different sounds, for example, popcorn makes a pop sound, a flute makes a flute sound, and a bell makes a ding-dong sound. Also, the book has rhyming words, such as snap and clap, which would be great for a kindergarten classroom.
There was a variety of color throughout this book. It was very similar to a Dr. Seuss book. It is a book for beginning readers. It's very repetitive with very little words on the pages. The words are very simple. It would be very useful to have if you have children who cannot read or are just learning to read.
Our girls just adore the "Bright and Early" books for beginning readers from the Dr. Seuss library. This one is perfect. Not too many words, but just challenging enough to keep them interested in learning to read. This one is similar to "The Foot Book," and our girls enjoy the continuity and rhythm these books have.
I was expecting this to book like The Foot Book or The Hair Book where the author (all different) look at different types of Feet/Hair, but this book was just about hearing things. A what bothered me most was that not all the sounds are actually written in the book.
In the vein of Dr. Seuss, there is rhyming and rhythm with a focus on ears. Sometimes the rhythm was great, but a couple of times it switched to a different rhythm and it threw me off. But still something fun that kids could go along with in "listening" to the different sounds.
Great book for early readers to read on their own, or with a friend to build confidence. This would be a fun read aloud to share because of all the sound effects you can add to make story time dramatic.
All they do is say what they hear "I hear this, I hear that" but they could have made it better by saying what they hear and then also saying if it's good, like "my sister makes a lot of noise when she sings" or "I like hearing certain stuff".
The "My Big Book of Beginner Books About Me" is the most embarrassing section of Dr Seuss' bibliography, where he was just putting out books for the dolla' dolla'. Two-stared everything.
K-2Grade level Equivalent: 2.4DRA: 8Guided Reading: Econsonant blends, and phonograms, rhyming words, repeat words, 5 senses
Nice and simple book, but it has great rhymes. More importantly, it has great sounds. Read it with your kids or have them read it to you.
Good illustrations with rhyming verses. A boy and his dog listen to the world around them. I recommend this book for read-aloud.
Love, love, loved this book as a child. I still have my original, and read it to my son. You can't go wrong with a Dr. Seuss.
I look forward to reading every night with my nephew. Once again, he gets a huge kick out of books that rhyme and this one was simple sentences that rhyme.
This is a great book to teach kids onomatopoeia’s and why they need ears. Very entertaining and a fun read.
In honor of Dr Seuss' bday and helping a student calm down in the library. Good site words!
Early reader with a touch of humor. Good for parents/kids/storytime. Fun onomatopoeia.
So much fun. Both my kids have enjoyed this tongue twister.
Nice book for beginning readers.
My niece and nephew loved this book! It helps readers that are just beginning, learn how important ears are, and without them we wouldn't be able to hear anything that we do now.
picture book
You can hear a lot of stuff with ears...thank goodness for ears!
Cute. Seussian. What more is there to say?
Great book when you are teaching about the five senses, as it is a fun book that talks about hearing. Very readable even for beginning readers. A happy book about many of the fun things there are to hear in the world.
Sounds! Sounds! Sounds! From birth to death we are surrounded by sounds. This book is a good introduction to helping children put names to the sounds they hear in the world. The illustrations help solidify that.
