https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/303615.The_General_Theory_of_Employment_Interest_and_Money
But if your economy was based on lots of people buying stuff they didn't really need, then when demand evaporated, so did your jobs.
Because if people weren't buying stuff, it didn't matter how little money they were willing to accept as pay.
Here're some other things about classical economics that Keynes thought didn't fit the 20th century world: -- Savings weren't irrelevant.
But classical economists in love their theories said, "Well, if people weren't investing in new business opportunities, then just lower interest rates on bank deposits.
وعندما يزيد عرض المال, ينخفض سعر فائدته؛ لأنه هنالك الكثير من الأموال المتنافسة فيما بينها للإقراض فيقدّم بعض أصحاب رؤوس الأموال مزايا للإقبال على أموالهم مثل تخفيض سعر الفائدة, فأن تُخَفِّض سعر الفائدة خير من أن يبقي المال دون أي إقراض.ويتوقع الماليون عند هذه النقطة, أن يقبل الناس على الاقتراض, وإقامة المشروعات بهذه الأموال, وبهذا تنتعش الأسواق.وهذه الطريقة تسمّى النظرية النقدية, وكانت تمثّل البرايجم أو المعتقدات الاقتصادية السائدةولكن في نهاية العقد الثالث حدث شيء لم يكن يتوقعه الماليون إطلاقاً؛ فهذه الطريقة لم تعد تجدي نفعاً!!!فبحلول عام 1929 حلّ الكساد الكبير.
Hazlitt, as a classical economist, is hostile to Keynes's ideas, and his book is a debunking of the General Theory, but his analysis is logical, and he has performed a great service to the reader of Keynes in grappling with Keynes's obscurities of expression to reveal their meaning and state them in plain terms.Do you think I'm being hard on Keynes?
If these actions are undertaken vigorously enough, full employment will result and maximum prosperity will be achieved.Keynes's great economic discovery was that Aesop got things exactly backwards in his fable of The Ant and the Grasshopper.
Keynes and Smith are both capitalists and agree on basic tenants of capitalism, that a free market is an efficient means of allocating resources.John Maynard Keynes, just as other economist such as Milton Friedman who espouse supply-side intervention, is prescribing solutions to anomalies in the free market in this landmark book.
Subsequent capitalist philosophers such as Keynes and Friedman expounded on the details and caveats of Smith's theories.What Adam Smith actually advised was that the wrong interventions in a commercial market by government should be, first, reversed and secondly those wrong interventions should be avoided, and other interventions of governments should be encouraged.
includes pages upon pages of scornful insults; and his famous manifesto describes the evils of capitalism in language as colorful as Jonathan Edwards' “Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God.” But if Keynes is capable of inspiring controversy, it is through the audacity of his ideas, rather than the power of his prose.In our post-Kensyian world, so thoroughly shaped by this book, it may be difficult to fully appreciate the revolutionary quality of his ideas.
So much thought went into this book that taking the time to get through even a single paragraph often gave me a headache.And like Adam Smith, Keynes avoids the problem that besets many on both the right and the left—to treat economic problems as moral problems.
This is the book that guided economic policy during the postwar boom up through the 1970s and believed by economists of a blue state persuasion.
It is not easy reading, a good economics book can explain it better than this book.
I wanted to read the theory from the originator but it is taught in an introductory Macroeconomics course (at least on the east coast of the US sometimes called saltwater economics you will get something different if your economics teacher is of the more conservative Chicago school).
This should not be the go-to source to get a clear explanation of Keynesian economics it is like trying to learn calculus by reading Newton (in Latin)
With an intense focus on the fundamental nature of the three factors mentioned in the title, it's easy to get bored and distracted quickly.Nonetheless, reading the General Theory reminds me of watching Citizen Kane.
This exacerbates the problems of the middle third, since not only is it dry and technical, it seems pretty obvious now.With a little patience comes a lot of reward.
It forgets that there is no such thing as liquidity for the community as a whole."He also deserves a lot of credit for including an especially strong understanding of human nature and social psychology, topics far too often neglected in modern economics.
This certainly is not a book for a quick enjoyable read. I am a Keynesian in my economic beliefs as a result of this book. As we are continuing the crazy response to the current economic crisis, I highly recommend this book to everyone who cares about money and our economy.
Once the economy was in health, taxes would be increased and spending reduced to prevent the economy from overheating.The first problem encountered with Keynesian economy was that the politicians were willing to spend heavily in times of recession to stimulate a recovery.
However, once the recovery was underway, they decided not to reduce spending which lead to the creation of what are now referred to as huge structural deficits which will never be eliminated.The second problem occurred when Western Powers attempted to apply Keynesian economics to the third world.
But the short version of Keynes' theory is this: in a recession or depression, rather than cutting funding governments should spend against the deficit to provide employment in public works, which will provide people with jobs and wages they can spend back into a consumer economy.
Essentially the idea is that government primes the pump of consumption by creating a new wage-earning class, which then buys goods from private corporations, which then re-establish their stability and can hire more labor to produce more goods to meet the new demand, and government can step back from their public role.
I read this book primarily to study the moral basis upon which this work rested; indeed, it was upon this moral foundation -- consisting largely of the moral maxims of the 19th century classical liberals (at list to which Marx at times also belongs)-- that both Keynes and Hayek agreed, though they differed about how to go about preserving say, individual liberty.
Keynes' shrewd insight was to realize that individual liberty was best preserved when the government, which in democratic societies expresses the "general will of the people", harnessed the market to an extent where unemployment and inequality do not reach levels which cause great unrest-- though as Keynes' correspondence with Hayek makes clear, he assumed that any government control should proceed on a moral basis.
The General Theory of Employment, Interest & Money has turned economic science upside down where the undertone and ideas have inherently defied basic economic principles. Unfortunately, the book still influences monetary and fiscal policy. It also has invaded the economic science in general. Economics is not driven by mathematics or models; it is driven by human action. Overall, it was merely an interesting read just on the basis of understanding where Keynes develops his theory.
"A nossa teoria mostra que é de uma importância vital atribuir a organismos do Estado certos poderes de direcção económica hoje confiados,na sua maior parte,à iniciativa privada.(...) Pensamos também que uma larga participação (do estado) no investimento se revelará o único meio de assegurar,de forma aproximada,o pleno emprego (ausência de desemprego)".
That said, it's interesting how long Adam Smith's perspectives took to germinate into Keynes' writing, nearly 165 years.
Even this work, though, has an unrefined feel to it, from some of the basic assumptions Keynes makes (regarding negative interest rates, for one) to his use of language.2.
I don't believe Keynes specifically makes reference to deficit spending during recessions, for example, once.
Toward this end, he saw several important levers, including monetary policy.
Keynes' perspective on economic psychology was spot on.
I appreciated his analysis of psychologically-induced distortions and expectations.Five stars for the important contribution of this work to modern thought.
نمی تونم این کتاب را ریت بزنم، تلاش بی حاصلی بود که برای خواندنش انجام دادم و چیزی از درونش نفهمیدم،
نمی تونم این کتاب را ریت بزنم، تلاش بی حاصلی بود که برای خواندنش انجام دادم و چیزی از درونش نفهمیدم،
(Now was Lucas making a film about the dehumanizing tendencies of capitalism, or communism or a socialized capitalism?) Now does a society without reserves become enslaved to the only holder of reserves, i.e. government or go renegade.
.....Never mind the social implications of this for now, but lets look at the economics of this.
Since it seems glaringly obvious to me that the theory would only apply to that specific period in time in which he wrote, and to a segment of the work force.
He himself acknowledges that before that time the classical theories worked just peachy in chapter one.
Moreover, the characteristics of the special case assumed by classical theory happen to be not those of the economic society in which we live, with the result that its teaching is misleading and disastrous if we attempt to apply it to the facts of experience.
(1) "The classical economists" was a name invented by Marx to cover Ricardo and James Mill and their predecessors, that is to say for the founders of the theory which culminated in the Ricardian economics.
I have become accustomed, perhaps perpetrating a solecism, to include in "the classical school" the followers of Ricardo, those, that is to say, who adopted and perfected the theory of the Ricardian economics, including (for example) J.S. Mill, Marshall, Edgeworth, and Prof.
If Keynes intended to inform his reader rather than to serve up this crap, he could have simply said, 'people spend more when they make more.' This book is just an endless collection of run-on sentences and indecipherable mental masturbation.
Oh yeah, and his central conclusion (that interest rates and the rate of employment run together) is demonstrably false.
Basically, this work is the foundation of economics for the eighty years.
If you read Capitalism and Freedom by Milton Friedman side by side with this work, people will choose Capitalism over it any day.
The later provides easy to digest and 'safe' ideas, where Keynes forces you to challenge yourself.
The only knocks against the, aside from being a challenging read, fall more upon the fact that it's an 80 year old work that could have never considered the speed of modern computing.
A freshening up of the work is in order, but the basics are spot on even decades later.
A tour de force of revolutionary Economic thinking, 30s style. A little too complicated to fully comprehend unless you are studying Economics though. Nonetheless a truly groundbreaking work which taught us how to get out of a Depression and stay out. Shame the Chancellor hasn't read it.Still the style of the book is fun. A bit stiff as you would expect from a pre-sixties academic work but makes repeated efforts to be less stuffy and to reach out. Near the end, Keynes even breaks into song.
A book that George the second should read. One of the key elements of his argument to me is the "crazy" premise that rich people save money at a greater rate than poor people. Attacks alot of neoclassical theories in a very intuitive way. The question that remains, for the reader, is what does our government do about this in terms of policy, regulation and implementation. Whether or not you agree with the entirety of Keynes conclusions or arguments is irrelevant. This is a very important book.
This is a difficult read, especially since the last course in economics I took was over 40 years ago. The math is pretty well beyond me as well. Nonetheless, there is valuable insight to be gained here. This book is the basis for the economic system abandoned in 1981,that may well have prevented where we are now.
Even for a non economist reader the writing here is sharp and lucid. Keynes's mind, his education come through in the clarity of his prose, free of jargon and stupid management speak, that academic economists use today.
Lo leimos, yo diría de punta a punta para Macro2 con Kicillof.
The argument that Keynes essentially puts forward is that, in times when the market forces are not cooperating with keeping an adequate level of employment and the consumption that comes along with people being employed, it is then the government’s duty to assist.
Therefore, Keynes believed that the answer to an economic crisis of the size, or even smaller than the great depression, would be for government to take a more active role in stimulating the inducement to invest, the propensity to consume, and keeping at a level of full employment.
During my high school years I followed courses in economics.
Ever since, my interest has been sparked to follow macro-economic trends and from time to time read some classic economic works.
I've read Smith, Ricardo, Hayek and now Keynes.
I haven't finished the book - I quit reading after part 3.
This book is written in such an incomprehensive way - clearly outdated from an educational perspective - that one can just as well study the chapters on Keynes in modern day economics textbooks.
This way, the exact same information can be digested in a much more accessible way.Too bad, because Keynes's ideas were revolutionary.
This really jumps out when you read Keynes -- he's better known today for the fiscal stimulus, but actually, his General Theory, if my understanding is right (from a very quick broad glance, by no means a dedicated study), stems from the insight that the level of investment is not immediately equal to the level of savings, but rather, that savings provides a pool for potential investment -- and out of this pool, some money goes toward productive investment in business ventures, while the remainder goes into financial investment, earning the rate of interest.Thus, Keynes actually spends a LOT of time discussing monetary policy, rather than fiscal policy.
In my opinion, the most important book on macroeconomics of the 2Oth century. Hard to read but easy to be understood with the help of many instructive textbooks writen on the subject. Unfortunately, pseudo-surpassed by modern mainstream macroeconomics.
Of course the book is systematic in a way, trying to create the image of a whole economy that revolves around concepts like the marginal efficiency of capital and liquidity preference, but much of it is filled with stray strands of logic or evidence, often profound, always thought-provoking, that are meant to jar the reader and give one a sense of even more radical possibilities.
His argument, in a nutshell, is that entrepreneurs cannot know the future, but their current production is based on it, so output is determined by how entrepreneurs feel about their future profitability (what he calls the "marginal efficiency of capital," basically a psychological concept).
I tried to read it, but I do not have the education to follow it. And perhaps the aptitude.
