https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17402605-the-alchemyst
2.0 stars. I did NOT like this book. The plot was derivative, the writing was passable AT BEST and the two teenage main characters annoyed me to the point of causing actual hair loss.   However, the book avoided the 1 star noose based solely on some crafty ideas and oh so unused potential that I will explore once I briefly explain the plot...which should not take long as we have all seen this tired old movie before.BRIEF TIRED OLD PLOT SUMMARY:Sophia and Josh (two VERYannoying kids)  work at a b
(f) group gets split up, (g) think hope is lost, (h) oh not quite yet, we have ONE chance, (i) more powerful monsters show up (j) powerful good guy protectors show up and join the quest, and finally (k)  a big, special effects laden climax and a nice tidy ending with the plot wrapped up but with the basis for the next story introduced ...HUH?...THE BOOK JUST STOPS OUT OF THE BLUE...
Is it just that in those two days that I was extracted from my world and put into yours, siblings and constant fighting and all the things that go with "brother and sister" was recreated into this perfect world where it's mushy-gushy unconditional brotherly love and nothing else?Sincerely,AnnoyedDear Sophie,You're really annoying.
Sincerely,ImpressedDear Hekete,why the heck did you say yes to Nicholas and "awake" Sophie?
Live with it.Sincerely,We're better off without youDear Crow Goddess,you're so unimportant I don't remember your actually name.
Sincerely,I know you're not to blameDear Bastet,I liked you better as the Egyptian goddess.Sincerely,Go back where you belong.Dear crows,goddesses don't exist.
If you read it for either of those reasons, you will most likely be disapointed.15 year-old twins Sophie and Josh have gotten summer jobs in San Franciso.
Before flattening the bookstore completely, John Dee and his henchmen steal a very old book, except for the last 2 pages, which Josh has a tight hold on.
You would think that he would have the method down pat during the last 600-so years.The book does something different with magic that I'd never read before, which is link it to the 5 senses.
And we don't need the two of them mentioning that their parents are archaeologists every other page.
I'm one of you!!"He turned a potentially kick-ass 2 1/2 thousand year old vampire into a lame teenager.
Instead, it felt more like a teenager's attempt at High Fantasy (::cough::Eldest (Inheritance, Book 2)::cough::), and not a very good one at that.
And seriously, mentioning LotR at the beginning of your book, does not a High Fantasy make.
Pošto ništa nisu uradili s tim naslovom (uprkos sjajnom prevodu vrsnog prevodioca), odustali su od autora...
Ali ni oni se, nažalost, nisu previše potrudili...
I treći naslov nije objavljen u Srbiji...
Dok ga u Hrvatskoj (na moj nagovor) lepo gura Algoritam...
Čitaoci moraju da razumeju da se često dešava, kada izdavačka kuća promeni urednika, novi koji dođe, nažalost, uglavnom zanemari ili ignoriše naslove koje je radio njegov prethodnik (osim ukoliko autor u međuvremenu nije postao ultra hit pisac u nas)...
Dok se u Hrvatskoj urednici duže zadržavaju u svojim izdavačkim kućama (zbog boljih uslova rada i više podrške koje imaju kod svojih izdavača)
I'll try to be fair here, this is a "YA" book and it comes in telling us it's going to "play" with historical and mythological figures....and play it does.
I found the book annoying and wonder at the damage we're doing to our "youths" and their knowledge of mythology, what we can learn from mythology, from the archetypal characters, thoughts, and ideas they contain.
I'm not sure how good it is for "youths" to "learn"/be told that "Scáthach" is a vampire.
Maybe had they bothered to download a couple of books?
This book manages to cram so many different world myths and legends into a modern fantasy story...
The story starts with twins Sophie and Josh finding out that the "Nick" they know is actually Nicholas Flamel, the ancient Alchemyst who discovered the secret of the philosopher's stone and many other common magical legends through the Codex, or the book of Abraham the Mage.
various figures from different world legends show up.
Anyways, this book had a LOT more potential than the story actually used, so I'm hoping the sequels will get into gear.

Fans of Harry Potter, Fablehaven, Rick Riordan's Percy Jackson books, and even The Da Vinci Code will find interesting connections and similarities here.
Other characters in the book come from mythology and folklore.
I was also interested in the use of modern gadgets, especially in the beginning.
As the story progresses, though, the gadgets are left behind.I wouldn't rank this as one of my all-time favorite fantasy stories - even if I'm just limiting to books I've read this year.
But I did enjoy it and will certainly read the sequels as I get a chance.
Welcome.I experienced a world that was filled with ancient characters (both good and evil), strange creatures, and wonderfully described scenes with TONS of detail.I met twins, a boy and girl, with pure auras who possess magical powers that once awakened will change the world.
A six-hundred-year-old alchemyst who performs magic and the air around smelled like mint.
His wife (possibly the same age) who is magical in different ways and befriends ghosts.
A two-thousand-and-a-half-year-old Warrior who's also a vegetarian vampire.
I saw creatures from legend, myth, and nightmares.
(For me!) How could such a vast amount of information be put into a story and actually make sense?
At the time, I was fresh off the Harry Potter series and had a bad case of 'Post-Potter Depression'.
The idea of learning more about the intriguing and mythical 'Nicolas Flamel' (which I had heard of before HP) instantly captivated me, and the book blurb only added fuel to the fire.
Yeah, I thought so too, but apparently not.Also, considering the book is named after Nicholas Flamel, I was expecting a lot more of him front and center; not as an almost background character.
Making him a titular character on the book cover almost seemed gimmick-y.
Every time I walk by these books in bookstores, I get a pang of regret.
Now don't get me wrong, I adore Harry Potter and that's probably why this sort of book irritates me.
The plot wasn't particularly engaging either and it seemed that every other page there had to be a big, magical battle, as if he felt the only way to keep the reader going was to put in action.
Obviously kids can't read anything deep and are too uninterested and the only way to keep them reading is to pack the entire book with pointless battle scenes.
I probably won't read the rest of the series as I was, obviously, far from enchanted by the first one.
En cierto modo todos somos prisioneros... prisioneros de las circunstancias y de los acontecimientos. Buen libro. Aceptable inicio de saga. Me gustó mucho que el autor haya incluido tanta magia, mitología e Historia. Los personajes no me despertaron ninguna simpatía, pero espero sentir algo por ellos a medida que vaya avanzando en la serie. Como aspectos negativos tengo que decir que no me convenció cómo está escrito. No me gusta la manera de narrar de Michael Scott. Es demasiado repetitiva y a
En cierto modo todos somos prisioneros...
prisioneros de las circunstancias y de los acontecimientos.
Me gustó mucho que el autor haya incluido tanta magia, mitología e Historia.
Los personajes no me despertaron ninguna simpatía, pero espero sentir algo por ellos a medida que vaya avanzando en la serie.
Es demasiado repetitiva y alarga descripciones que, para mí, deberían ser breves.
Y por último, la trama en sí.
A pesar de todo, El Alquimista es un libro entretenido, con un ritmo correcto y me dejó con ganas de leer los siguientes lo más pronto posible.
I'm getting better at my new "don't read bad books" plan.
The two kids in the story are just too much.
And really Mr. Scott, did you have to attempt to borrow a story from every fantasy written in the last 2000 years and cram it into this one?
Poopy.Edit: I was going to give this 2 stars, because it wasn't awful.
But how can I give a book anything more than one star when it makes me think of poop on every page?
با اینکه کتاب موضوع فوق العاده جالبی داشت اما به نظرم نویسنده نتونسته بود به خوبی از پس نوشتن داستان بر بیاد.
به علاوه ی کم و کاست های زیادی که شخصیت پردازی کتاب داشت و اینکه یه جاهایی دیگه زیادی اغراق شده بوداما کتاب نقاط مثبتی هم داشت.
اینکه نویسنده از شخصیت های اسطوره ای و باستانی استفاده کرده بود و به زیرکی حوادث تاریخی رو به اونا ربط داده بود از نظر من جالب انگیز و جسورانه بود----در کل کتاب بدی نبود اما خیلی بعید می دونم که بخوام پنج جلد باقی مونده رو بخونم
Dreadful.I appreciate Goodreads because I can read through other negative reviews and feel justified in my hatred of a book.There is not much I can say that hasn't already been said.The book is about Nicholas Flamel the Alchemyst (spelled with a "y" because his author/father wanted him to be yoo-nique!) and a bunch of whiny and conveniently-forever-questioning teenage twins who are on the run from the evil Dr. John Dee (called Dee, which makes him sound like a very silly villain .
Isn't the book called The Alchemyst: the secrets of the immortal Nicholas Flamel?
7/31/17 edited to add:I had a lengthy conversation this morning on the bus to work with a gentleman who loved these books, recommended to him by his son.
I might have tried it despite my earlier response because his enthusiasm was so great, but auras are apparently a deal breaker.Then, when I got into work my boss and I chatted about her current book club selection, by an author I dislike who is much admired.Even when it doesn't result in a new book for the TBR list, I really love listening to people talk about their favorites.
হঠাৎ করেই নিকলাস ফলামেল আর তার সতরীর হাতে এসে যায় একটা বই। যার পাঠোদধার করতেই কেটে যায় জীবনের অনেকগুলো বছর।এবই থেকেই তারা অমর হওয়ার সূতর পায়।এবইটি দিয়ে পৃথিবীকে যেমন সবরগ বানানো সমভব তেমনি সমভব নরক বানানোও। শত শত বছর ধরে নিকোলাস বইটা লুকিয়ে রেখেছে, রকষা করে চলেছে এবইয়ের গোপন রহসয। কিনতু কষমতালোভী কিছু মানুষ (এরাও অমর) এর পেছনে লেগে আছে।বইটা তাদের চাই-ই চাই। আকসমিকভাবেই নিকোলাস দেখা পেয়ে যায় বইটাতে ভবিষযৎবাণী করা দুই জমজ ভাই-বোনের। যারা এবইয়ের উততরাধিকারী হবে। বইটাতে ঐতিহাসিক ঘটনা, চরিতর, সথান, ম
হঠাৎ করেই নিকলাস ফ্লামেল আর তার স্ত্রীর হাতে এসে যায় একটা বই। যার পাঠোদ্ধার করতেই কেটে যায় জীবনের অনেকগুলো বছর।এবই থেকেই তারা অমর হওয়ার সূত্র পায়।এবইটি দিয়ে পৃথিবীকে যেমন স্বর্গ বানানো সম্ভব তেমনি সম্ভব নরক বানানোও। শত শত বছর ধরে নিকোলাস বইটা লুকিয়ে রেখেছে, রক্ষা করে চলেছে এবইয়ের গোপন রহস্য। কিন্তু ক্ষমতালোভী কিছু মানুষ (এরাও অমর) এর পেছনে লেগে আছে।বইটা তাদের চাই-ই চাই। আকস্মিকভাবেই নিকোলাস দেখা পেয়ে যায় বইটাতে ভবিষ্যৎবাণী করা দুই জমজ ভাই-বোনের। যারা এবইয়ের উত্তরাধিকারী হবে। বইটাতে ঐতিহাসিক ঘটনা, চরিত্র, স্থান, মিথ ব্যবহার করা হয়েছে চমৎকারভাবে। সিরিজের প্রথম বই এটা মজা পেয়েছি পড়ে।
Svidjaju mi se ideje, likovi su interesantni a prica je fina i ipak na karju knjiga me nije odusevila. Nekako mi fali ono nesto, momenat koji bi me vezao za sve sto se desava. Ovako na zalost bilo je zabavno za citanje ali nisam bio posebno zainteresovan dal ce nasi heroji da se izvuku ili ne.Plus samog Flamela ima previse malo u knjizi.Ali ima potencijal tako da ce mo nastaviti sa sledecom knjigom.
As I said, characters here are usually living on the earth for some time, some of them are even ten thousand years old and wouldn't you expect to actually see that for yourself?
I mean that even if someone was centuries old could he actually speak 20 languages?
At the end of each book is cliffhanger!!I really liked the book one, it was quite interesting and original, I was willing to overlook the flaws, but as the series keep going, it's getting worse and worse and now I'm considering whether to read on or not.
A lot of people haven't heard of this series, and I don't know why, because these books are AWESOME!We have adventure, we have wit, we have sass, and my absolute favourite... myths and legends coming to life. Topped off with the wonderful absence of teenage drama makes this a delightful read. If you liked the excitement of Harry Potter, the modern mythological adaptations of Percy Jackson and a new take on some of the world's most mysterious legends then this is the book for you.
I was first interested in this book for the same reason I'm sure it made the New York Times bestseller list...because it is about Nicholas Flamel, who is mentioned in the Harry Potter books, specifically in the first book about the Sorceror's Stone, as being a friend of Professor Dumbledore.
The characters, despite the fact that they were almost all real people who historically we know existed, or they were mythical creatures whose stories have been shared through generations, were just flat and one-dimensional.
3.5 Sterne von mir :)

The Alchemyst is a teen/tween book that manages to combine various world mythologies into one.
At the center of it is a mysterious Book of Abraham the Mage which has given immortal life to Nicholas Flamel and his wife.
But the book can also be used to bring about the return of the Dark Elves and the enslavement of the human kind.Fifteen year old twins, Sophie and Josh, are the only ones who can save or completely destroy the world as has been foretold.I like the story of this book and, especially, how it fits many historical people, events and facts into it.Enjoy!
Yet another book I loved as a kid and then stopped loving.
Thousands of different world myths and world historical facts are integrated into one clever world.
As the series continues, however, it gets more confusing than enjoyable.As a fantasy story, this does fall a bit on the cliche side.
But in general, the myths used are creative enough to hold up the story.
The characters are also exceptionally flat.
Unfortunately, the ambiguity of both these characters on the moral side is barely explored.
In general, this series is a bit of a romp in wasted potential.
It's fun as a kid, but it's nothing really special.
Besonders natürlich in Verbindung mit den immer wiederkehrenden spannenden Verfolgungsjagden und lebensbedrohlichen Momenten.Die Charaktere waren nun auch nicht das, was man unsympathisch nennen könnte und es gab zur Abwechslung mal auch keine Liebesgeschichte, geschweige denn ein Liebesdreieck!
Und das war ein Problem, denn nun ja, das Buch ist zwar nicht aus seiner Sicht geschrieben, dreht sich aber im Prinzip doch hauptsächlich um ihn.
Und man hat ja leider nun auch nicht unendlich viel Zeit und Geld...FAZITEin Roman, der mich unterhalten konnte, den ich aber durchwachsen fand und der für mich persönlich daher kein Must Read ist.

Along the way, they learn that, OMG, there’s a prophecy about twins saving the world!The most intriguing aspect of The Alchemyst: The Secrets of the Immortal Nicholas Flamel is the overall worldview that Michael Scott has developed.
It was hard to take The Alchemyst seriously from the very beginning when, after centuries of hiding the codex from Dr. Dee and after telling him it had been destroyed, Nicholas Flamel whips it out so he can consult it to cast a spell at Dee...
I read the audiobook version of The Alchemyst and found that the performance of the narrator, Denis O'Hare, made this book bearable for me.
He uses as his starting point the figures of the historical alchemist Nicholas Flamel and his wife, who have found the secret of immortality, along with mythical beings, including the terrifying Scottish crow-goddess, the Morrigan; the three-faced Greek Hekate; the powerful Egyptian cat-goddess, Bastet; and Scathach, a legendary Irish woman warrior and vegetarian vampire.
A reader will have to look hard to figure out who Josh, Sophie, and the Flamels are underneath all of the things that are happening in the story.I’m just wondering, if Flamel needs to get the elixir brewed--but he needs the book--my question is: after so many years, hasn't he memorized the recipe?!More of Purplycookie’s Reviews @:  http://www.goodreads.com/purplycookie Book Details: Title The Alchemyst (The Secrets of the Immortal Nicholas Flamel, #1)Author Michael ScottReviewed By Purplycookie
