https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18461986-deep
Can they manage to find a way to be together as friends or as something more?I loved Lizzy!!She is sassy, funny and strong!Definitely one of the best in the series!!And Ben, this sexy mystery guy, I loved him!!I loved his concern for Lizzy especially since he never wanted to be a father because he liked the way he was.And I can understand it however in the beginning he was a little jerk!But when he clearly saw what he wanted he become sweet and protected!I loved how the story set up with us see how things are now and before how Ben and Lizzy met!!One more thing that I loved this book is that we still can see the others and believe it was so nice!!Mal is still the same amazing guy that I fell in love in Play!!He and Anne are hilarious!And I loved that he cared for Lizzy, his little sister in law.
4 stars!!! I love the Stage Dive series. I love how this band is like a family. I think Kylie’s writing is fresh and fun and I love the characters she comes up with. This is the fourth and final book of the Stage Dive series, and honestly, I’m sad to see i it end. These books make me laugh out loud, but they also have many heartwarming and steamy moments. They really are the total package. Lizzy Rollin’s older sister is hopelessly in love with Stage Dive member Mal. So Lizzy has got to know the
I love the Stage Dive series.
Lizzy Rollin’s older sister is hopelessly in love with Stage Dive member Mal. So Lizzy has got to know the band pretty well.
Ben isn’t sure if he’s ready for all this.
There is a lot of push and pull between Ben and Lizzy.
I wanted to, but every time I would get close to getting those feels for Ben he would do something or say something that just pushed my buttons.
The ending was everything I hoped for and love from a Stage Dive novel.
Ben - who I quite honestly felt like I never really got to know (seriously, he was barely a blip on the pages of the previous books and, quite frankly, we didn't get to know him any better in this one) - was like a watered down version of Jimmy.
I just would have loved it if we got to know Ben a little more...maybe his and Lizzy's relationship - and thus the story - might of felt a little more developed then too.
”So I’d been knocked up by a rock star. Big deal.” To my utter heartbreak, this is the last book of this fun series. I was super excited to read about Ben, the bearded bass guitarist and Kylie Scott definitely delivered an entertaining story. The whole gang plays a part in this story but for me, Liz made this book. With best supporting character award going to Mal, loved him in this one!Liz was relatable, lovable, hilarious and my favorite heroine of the series. Ben on the other hand was a hott
The whole gang plays a part in this story but for me, Liz made this book.
However, Ben was realistic, his actions throughout the story were totally believable and I’m thinking on asking my husband to grow a beard of his own.Liz and Ben have an instant attraction but Mal’s warning to stay away really holds weight with Ben. Liz starts texting him and the two form a friendship with the friend line continually mentioned by Ben. They keep their friendship a secret and after one hot night things drastically change.
He loves the music and his freedom and he handles things with Liz pretty realistically.
Despite being in love with Ben for a while, an expected pregnancy from a one-night-stand isn’t exactly news that Lizzy welcomes easily.
I’ve said before that this is probably one of the best rock-star series of the moment.
Not only it was the main couple (see below) but also the way their relationship progressed: they basically went from texts, to one night stand, to pregnancy, to texts again, to ‘I love you’.
Despite the texts had been sweet, the process of them falling in love (especially Ben) didn't felt completely real for me.
(hide spoiler)]Love Triangle:  (view spoiler)[No.
4 the bearded wonder stars!Kylie Scott's Stage Dive series is probably my favorite rock star series of all time.
It's mostly because of Ben who I wanted to hit upside in the head for the better part of the book.
I loved her relationship with Anne and Mal and the rest of the band.
I love, love Jimmy and Lena -- actually I loved all of them that I am begging -- BEGGING -- Kylie Scott to write an extended epilogue for all the couples.
I want more Ev and David, Mal and Anne, Ben and Lizzy and of course, Jimmy and Lena.
Despite this, it works perfectly well as a standalone so don't be worried if you haven't read the first three, although I can highly recommend them.What we've come to expect from a Kylie Scott Stage Dive novel is an entertaining, feel-good romance loaded with her trademark humour and wit and Deep is most definitely maintaining that trend.
It's very easy to put yourself in her position and ride the emotional ups and downs right along with her.Ultimately, Deep is a highly entertaining, light contemporary romance which I read with a bit of a sappy smile on my face.
4 Stars  So I'd been knocked up by a rock star. Big deal.  Nothing can ruin a dinner party quicker than a random pregnancy announcement...especially when it's yours...and the guy that knocked you up is the sexy bearded bassist for a rock band that also happens to be a commitment phobe. Oh and said pregnancy is the result of one stolen night together that really wasn't supposed to happen and said bassist hasn't talked to you since. Suffice it to say that Lizzy Rollins is having one hell of a week
Nothing can ruin a dinner party quicker than a random pregnancy announcement...especially when it's yours...and the guy that knocked you up is the sexy bearded bassist for a rock band that also happens to be a commitment phobe.
Every book has been unique in it's own right, and I just knew that Ben's story was going to be a good one ever since we first met him in Lick.
But boy oh boy you will also find yourself falling hard for the bearded sex machine right along Lizzy.
4 stars! These books are hands down my favorite rock star series! I'm so bummed it's over. This last installment (cries) is the story of the Stage Dive bass player Ben and Mal’s sister-in-law Lizzy. Lizzy is a young college student who worked hard to get where she is at, along with her sister Anne’s help. When Anne and Mal began seeing each other, Lizzy met Ben and developed an immediate crush on him. Ben has been warned away from Lizzy by Mal, but this doesn’t stop Lizzy from pursuing Ben on h
This last installment (cries) is the story of the Stage Dive bass player Ben and Mal’s sister-in-law Lizzy.
Over time, feelings develop and grow stronger until one night between them changes everything.This book begins with Lizzy discovering she is pregnant, and shows us their story in flashbacks.
There was so much frickin whiplash from him towards Lizzy and there were times I wanted to reach in the book, smack him and tell him to wake up and see the amazing woman he landed!
Lizzy is what saved their romance for me because she saw Ben for who he was, and she never wanted to change him.
4.5 Stars!  "Good girls don't fall for rock stars."  Oh man. These rock stars rock my world. Deep is the last installment of Stage Dive series and I couldn't help but feel a little bit sad because all the characters (David, Ev, Mal, Anne, Jimmy, Lena, Ben, and Lizzy) have grown on me. How can I not? In Deep, we finally get to have the story of Ben Nicholson, Stage Dive's bass player, and Elizabeth "Lizzy" Rollins, Anne's sister. Ever since Lizzy set her eyes on Ben, she has been crushing and sor
Deep is the last installment of Stage Dive series and I couldn't help but feel a little bit sad because all the characters (David, Ev, Mal, Anne, Jimmy, Lena, Ben, and Lizzy) have grown on me.
In Deep, we finally get to have the story of Ben Nicholson, Stage Dive's bass player, and Elizabeth "Lizzy" Rollins, Anne's sister.
Much as Ben tried, he wasn't able to resist Lizzy so he flirted her back in secret.
I also loved how the other Stage Dive characters helped them figure out their issues.
It's Live: http://amzn.to/1Fz7fE3Stage Dive series has some of the best opening scenes.
I love in book one, 'Lick', when Ev wakes up after her 21st birthday to find out she’s married to a rockstar and she can’t remember the previous night.
We finally learn about the mysterious, Ben, of Stage Dive.
He’s the quiet one who is always running off whenever he is in a scene in the previous books.
An aspect I like in rockstar, mc, and college genre books is when the heroine makes the hero jealous.
4 STARS! ★★★★ "Good girls don't fall for rock stars. It just isn't done." As much as I was happy to reunite with my Stage Dive boys, I still went in with a heavy heart as this book would mark the end of this amazing series :( Every book in the series had been an all-round entertaining read with humorous characters that I've grown attached to and with Deep, we have finally made it to Ben Nicholson, the remaining member of the band aka bearded bassist who still needed his own HEA. With Kylie Scott
As much as I was happy to reunite with my Stage Dive boys, I still went in with a heavy heart as this book would mark the end of this amazing series :( Every book in the series had been an all-round entertaining read with humorous characters that I've grown attached to and with Deep, we have finally made it to Ben Nicholson, the remaining member of the band aka bearded bassist who still needed his own HEA.
But once Ben started coming around and fixing up his act, I was more than happy to watch this couple get their HEA very soon.What I probably loved most about this one is Liz's character and I can easily say that Kylie Scott surely writes some of best heroines I've read.
Dear Ben,I wanted to write you a heart felt letter and just say that: I love you! EDITI know I have to wait until March when we can really be together and that's going to be really hard... but I love you, so I'll wait until 12 March's from now if I had too. I just wanted you to know this, and that...         Sincerely, ~Kristin
In the fourth and final book of the Stage Dive series, we get bass player Ben and Mal's sister-in-law, Lizzy's story. Ben is committed to his music and free lifestyle, while Lizzy is a hard working college student. One night in Vegas these two give into their attraction, but that night changes everything. “So I’d been knocked up by a rock star.Big deal.Deep breath. Okay.” This was a quick, enjoyable read, with fun characters, a little drama and some sweet moments. While Ben wasn't my favorite, I
In the fourth and final book of the Stage Dive series, we get bass player Ben and Mal's sister-in-law, Lizzy's story.
Ben is committed to his music and free lifestyle, while Lizzy is a hard working college student.
One night in Vegas these two give into their attraction, but that night changes everything.
“So I’d been knocked up by a rock star.Big deal.Deep breath.
Okay.”
This was a quick, enjoyable read, with fun characters, a little drama and some sweet moments.
While Ben wasn't my favorite, I eventually warmed up to him.
“Ben, I don’t want to take your freedom.
I just want a place in your world.
I hope the "girl" is dear Lizzy!
So we all have our types of books, the ones you love and can’t wait to read. I love brother’s best friend books, that’s not a secret, and I love books were the characters get pregnant. Yes, I know this is a huge pet peeve for most, but me I am all about an unexpected baby. That being said I was completely ready to fall madly, deeply in love with Deep.  So I’d been knocked up by a rockstar. Big deal.   The Stage Dive series is my favorite rocker series. I absolutely love these guys and their wive
This is definitely a case of what happens in Vegas will definitely not being staying in Vegas.Throughout the story we see how Ben and Lizzie will navigate this news.
So many times we see characters completely change given their circumstances and while we may hope that for our real lives, it rarely happens.Deep has a lot of heart and depth.
In the end, I love how things played out with Lizzie and Ben. I highly recommend this series if you haven’t started and obviously Deep if you haven’t jumped in to this new installment yet.Side note: Most importantly I have to give a shout to my favorite character: Mal Ericson.
3 starsAll it took was one-night, one-night that was never supposed to happen. Lizzy was supposed to be off limits, she wasn't supposed to be the girl Ben had a good time with, Lizzy is his best friend's little sister and even knowing all that it did fuck all to his control and reason.   But you and me, we’ve never been easy. Minute I saw you, it’s been complicated.   What happened in Vegas definitely didn't stay in Vegas. While Lizzy had hope, Ben had his tantrum of good intentions but lacked a
Lizzy was supposed to be off limits, she wasn't supposed to be the girl Ben had a good time with, Lizzy is his best friend's little sister and even knowing all that it did fuck all to his control and reason.
While Lizzy had hope, Ben had his tantrum of good intentions but lacked any follow through, successfully killing her hope as each day passes.
Tough love is sometimes needed to see exactly what you would be missing, hopefully Ben can pull his head out of his in time.
With Lizzy, I imagined a love sick puppy that would just about do anything for Ben, wishing she had more sass.
3 starsThis book started off well, I thought Liz was quite witty and the text messages were funny. I didn't get Ben though. If only we got his PoV! Then somewhere along the way my feelings for it fizzled out. I couldn't feel their romantic connections. Liz became a pushover. It was still a nice enough read and end to the series.ARC provided by NetGalley
The star of the book is Liz...she is hilarious.
Did I say Liz was the star of the book?
I was disappointed in Ben and it was hard to feel the connection between Ben and Liz. A certain event happens and pushes them together.
It doesn't help that Ben says he doesn't seem himself settling down and it especially doesn't help that he dates someone else (not while him and Liz are together)!I always feel a certain "disconnect" when we don't get both MC's POVs. I wanted to think the best of Ben but we never really know until he says something.
REVIEW TO COME4.5 Pure Man Magic Stars!(BR with Sharon & Tiffany)
In the end he got me, like the rest of them...And how will be my world without Ev, Ann, Lena and Lizzy????I loved that guys...
But that book was focused to the bass-player of Stage dive, Ben and Ann's little sister, Lizzy....From the first moment that they laid eyes to each other there was a sparkle between them, but we didn't know if that sparkle will grow in something bigger....
And that's because Ben was a free spirit with wanting not any kind of commitment...
“You’re the only girl I want.”  Well, tickle me pink and call me a Stage Dive groupie for life, because this was the perfect ending to a series I adored beginning to end. We’ve been collecting clues about their relationship for so long, little breadcrumbs Ms Scott has been leaving here and there just to keep us speculating, and now we finally get to hear it all and fall in love with yet another couple in this crazy, addictive rock star family. As the entire Stage Dive mob comes together to tak
But falling in love with a man who does not know how to make room for someone else in his life, a man already living his dream, proves to be a hurdle Liz never expected to have to face, especially with a baby on the way, adding an incredibly gripping level of angst to a story that is as emotional as it is entertaining.
2 Noooope StarsBoth Lizzy and Ben were just too immature for me to enjoy the book. All I kept thinking was "poor kid". Just no!I do feel curious about the Martha-Sam thing though....
I loved it! But the ending was abrupt for me. The declaration of love was a bit forced. I love the epilogue. I just wish it was longer. Maybe that's just me, a book-junkie, wanting more. :)
Okay."Deep is the fourth and final book of the Stage Dive Series.
This is Ben's story.In Play, we meet Lizzy Anne's sister.
Even though the boundaries were clearly stated and put in place, Lizzy is drawn to Ben like honey to a bee.
Mal and Anne loose it and everyone is mad at Ben for "taking advantage" of Lizzy.
Lizzy cannot get over her feelings for Ben. There will be no relationship past friends."What was there to say?
No doubt he liked me just fine, but not enough."-LizzyDespite his best effort to avoid being with Lizzy, Ben cannot stay away from her.
4 Oh Baby-Mama Drama StarsDeep is part of the Stage Dive series.
Deep is a standalone, but it’s strongly advised you read the series in order.
There is foreshadowing in the beginning, just a warning because those are hard for me to overlook, but I’ll admit, it was a good one.Ben can’t date Lizzy because she is his best friend’s little sister.
Ben can’t stay away and one thing leads to another and you get baby (well in the tummy, but you know what I mean).The story progresses into how Ben reacts to everything.
I understood Lizzy’s frustrations and I love her baby-mama rants!
I loved reading everything about all the men in Stage Dive.
I am sorry to say this final instalment fell short for me.We're given the story of the last single man in Stage Dive, our very own enigmatic Ben Nicholson.
Tooo funny, Mal that is.
Different in that, the story was easy to relate to, a friendship was created and the attraction and temptation was withheld for quite a period of time.
Ben loves his Stage Dive family, but he loves the single life MORE.
Until he finally pulls his head out of his behind and goes after what he wants.
3.5 "Fire-truck" stars
Gah! I need this... like yesterday...
Ben is the bass player for Stage Dive, the lone single man left in the band, and Lizzy is the younger sister of Anne, Mal’s other half, and right from the start of this book you know you’re in for a wild time with Lizzy’s big reveal on the opening page.
She is madly attracted to Ben, and her constant musings over his hotness and how much she wants him are hilarious!
But they manage to maintain the fun bantering relationship and the love scenes are a mixture of seriously hot sexy time and Lizzy’s brilliant outbursts
