https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19660.Such_a_Long_Journey
P Bryant: Thank you for agreeing to be interviewed for Goodreads.Rohinton Mistry : My pleasure.
It's such a nice website.PB: Yes. Regarding Such a Long Journey, your first novel, must say that I found it almost unbearably moving.RM : Why thank you.
Many people have said similar things.PB : In fact (tears begin to stream) when I think…RM : Have a tissue -PB : When I think -RM : Have another tissue -PB : When I think..RM : Yes?PB : of the fate of Gustad Noble and his family..
(breaks down completely)RM: I… I… (begins to crumple too)(Sounds of weeping)PB : And poor Roshan..

It is a touching story of an Indian family in the early seventies, a turbulent time in India's history.
I gave it four stars because it did not drag me into the story like his other novel A Fine Balance did.
I still felt I was kept at a comfortable distance where in AFB I, as a reader, felt I was being made a part of the misery and happiness of the main characters.
Yet it is a remarkable debut novel (he did write a collection of short stories before this, which I recommend too).
So in the end, what is the difference between a criminal group of thugs in India arguing for the banning of a book and those of quite a different political stance who recently fought to stop Germaine Greer, a noted public speaker and thinker for 50 years, from appearing on university soil?You can find Mistry's own reaction to this here: http://www.thehindu.com/news/national...I quote from it:“As for the grandson of the Shiv Sena leader, the young man who takes credit for the whole pathetic business, who admits to not having read the book, just the few lines that offend him and his bibliophobic brethren, he has now been inducted into the family enterprise of parochial politics, anointed leader of its newly minted “youth wing.” What can — what should — one feel about him?
I have the name Rohinton Mistry etched on my brain for he is the author of my favourite book of all time – A Fine Balance.
It is brilliantly written in what I would call trademark Mistry language (having now read a whole two of his books!) – compelling and intricate with great character descriptions.
I kept reading expecting something to really get the heart beating or tears flooding but instead the author takes us down a series of avenues which might end in delight or despair but instead does neither.
The whole story about the money being kept in their house for instance had great potential – would they be robbed?
Instead, I'd like to focus on how this book made me feel.
Mistry does this thing - he makes sure you're on the verge of crying, and then he says something that almost magically dispels the sadness that would inevitably have resulted in tears.
One of the reasons behind that is that no matter what part of India these writing talk of, no matter what part of its culture they display, all of it has this particular element that makes it all, in a way, almost the same.
No matter how different Indians are from each other, the Indianess that we share cannot be denied.
It's (most probably) my fault and not the book's that I didn't enjoy it to the fullest for what it was.Long Journey is a simple, perfectly good book about a Parsi man in Bombay who's very nostalgic about the better days of his life - a life that's taking a turn for the worse amidst a national turmoil, the constant threat of war and unrest within the family.
Maybe it's because it's PARSI Bombay.
Sexual harassment was so casually accepted and even gaily encouraged to an extent!A contained, perfectly good novel that isn't overwhelming except in the depiction of the patriarchial (typical Indian) mindset.
Noble is a hard working bank clerk and devoted family man.The book touches on many themes, political corruption, long term friendships, loss of loved ones, alternative medicine, and the mentally ill.
It is a well woven story, but as a first novel, perhaps does not go deep enough into some themes, and includes a few too many.The characters are likeable, the story unfolds well enough, but it perhaps didn't draw me in as much as I might have expected.Mistry's second and third novels receive high praise, and for that reason I opted to read this book first.
At various points I was reminded of these 3 Calvin and Hobbes strips:The house has been burgled, and while Calvin is able to sleep peacefully with Hobbes as support, his parents find their peace disturbed.****That's almost the story of Gustad, a middle aged man with 3 children, watching them grow up, going through the vagaries of them growing up - a teenager, a pre-teen and a sickly child, and trying hard to hold the whole thing together.
A better understanding of the political events occurring in the background would have enriched my reading of this, but even without, Mistry was able to catch and hold my attention, weaving layers of story and symbolism together, creating a sometimes farcical, bittersweet domestic tale.
I felt like I got to know this group of middle-class Indians and their microcosm of that larger world a little bit better.
Mistry is such a sensual writer - he really has the capacity to bring you right into the world of his novels with these amazing details, characterizations and juxtapositions: superstition with philosophy, cruelty with kindness, great beauty with great atrocity.
I loved this book. I read it in India and for me it reflects all the ambiguity of this wonderful country; the corruption of its government and yet the generosity and charm of many of its inhabitants. Gustad Noble is a character with whom ones sympathises from the start, a man who tries to do his best for his family and his friends in difficult circumstances and who is always doubting himself and his ability to negotiate the difficult world around him.
Another masterpiece by Mistry, i'm overjoyed that I have found another prize author! Set during the Indian war over Bangladesh, Gustad Noble takes us on a journey of fraud, corrupt politics, witchcraft, family feuds, a million religious relics and so much more. If you enjoyed A Fine Balance, then you're in for a treat. I loved this book.
I liked and disliked this book for all the same reasons:* The story is slow to unfold.
It also made it feel like so much of the text was really just filler.* Interesting characters.
But I quickly realized that there were so many different characters that they all began to feel like filler as well.
They led to different storylines, which means the story winds up with many different little threads that should be tied up in the end.
There's a character who paints a wall with different gods from different religions; I liked him.
The journey is both a physical and metaphorical one, of Gustad’s bedside visitation of a friend he thought had betrayed him, and of Gustad’s eventual realization that there are few absolutes in life beyond that of death, that for every face there are a myriad of facets.
His secondary cast, including not-quite-all-there Tehmul and the superstitious pseudo-witch Mrs Kutpitia are entertaining and help to make the Khodadad Building feel like an authentic neighbourhood.I think many readers who came away disappointed might have felt that Mistry did all the legwork to set up a heck of a rollercoaster but then did not choose to send Gustad on the ride.
However in real life when everything seems to go wrong at once, it is more usual to go through exactly the sort of despair that Gustad feels without actually encountering total catastrophe.
3.5. A good story, but not nearly as good as A FINE BALANCE.
Such a wonderful book!!
Such an engrossing book...and I learned so much from it! This is the second Mistry book I have read, the first being A Fine Balance. I am in awe of his writing skills and his expansive knowledge. (But just as with A Fine Balance, I wish he did not make the disgusting so aptly disgusting--I could actually smell the dirt and the squalor by just reading the passages describing that!)
The folk stories within this story are wildly fascinating, such as this: "In the old days, when it was time for the [emperors] to walk naked before the public with erect phallus, to convince his subjects that the right to be ruler still belonged to him, it was the palung-tode [a mixture of herbs] he relied on...the secret was told to a few courtiers only, who, each year...were executed to guard the deception." But for me, "Such a Long Journey" takes such huge, and epic view of global politics (of which some issues I'm not as knowledgeable as I should be) that I checked out of the story momentarily.
Mistry perfects his technique of interweaving small/large stories in "A Fine Balance" in which the politics are more personal to the characters, thus producing a more intimate but still beautiful and oh so much more bittersweet mesh of people and place and time.
Here goes the review.What you wouldn’t want to know about a book is that it is endlessly tiring, way too lengthy running over 450 pages with sentences as long as a paragraph, too many characters to keep up with, so many incidents that you forget what happened the last page, and to make matters worse, events so tragic that you sleep the nights with them in your head for days after you’ve finished the book.Yes, that precisely is what ‘Such a Long Journey’ is like.
The book tells us the story of Gustad Noble , a simple and honest man, one who remains immaterial and inconsequential in the larger scheme of society's design, who like any other ordinary person does not demand much out of life, other than health and happiness for his family and a better future for his children.
The character that stood out for me though was that of Tehmul , who provides a kind of fragility and sensitivity to life that almost breaks your heart and makes you feel partly responsible for the shameful way in which society ‘accommodates and tolerates ‘ and even exploits a person with his challenges.
So it is with Rohinton Mistry, and whilst this (as his first novel) isn't quite the masterpiece that he would produce with 'A Fine Balance' is still a wonderful portrait of India in the 1970's and MIstry has the ability to create a story about a man and his family and their domestic struggles and emotions whilst allowing you to see the corruption of the state and particularly the government of Indira Ghandi so whilst the reader comes away having been moved by a brilliant novel he has absorbed a piece of political history.
I had previously read Mistrey's Oprah book, "A Fine Balance" and his collection of short stories, "Swimming Lessons" and this is not as good as either of them.
Before I read "A Fine Balance" my familiarity with Indian fiction and my knowledge of India at all was miniscule.
I remember being SO SHOCKED about what happens in "A Fine Balance" that at one point I just had to close the book and decompress for ten or more minutes.
But this is a book well worth reading, and I would recommend it to anyone who likes Indian fiction, or who wants to learn more about India.
I know this book is considered a classic, so I feel like I should have enjoyed it more than I did.
Eventually he gets some actual problems and that is when the story gets interesting, and the more positive sides of his character are revealed.
Interesting aspects of the book for me were the folk remedies and magic, Zoroastrianism, and the way people interact with the mentally ill.
This was one of the area in which the protagonist was revealed as a nice guy - he is very caring and patient with people who in other settings would just be institutionalized.
Rohinton Mistry's style of writing involves giving vivid descriptions of the characters of his stories and of the adventures he takes them on.I enjoyed the characters in this novel and the personalities that they contributed to the story, but the story lacks a motive without doubt.As I read through the book I was wondering how the story would unfold and where the plot was leading to.
Once in a while, you come across a book which will stay with you for a long long time after you are finished reading it.
Set in the Bombay of the early 70's and in a time when India was on the brink of war, this book is by turns mesmerizing, heartbreaking and nostalgic.
The neighbourhood of Khodadad Building, Gustad's workplace at Flora Fountain, the weekly visits to Crawford Market and ocassional ones to Mount Mary remind you of a glorious era gone by, when life was simpler and needs fewer.
Brilliantly written, and a truly enriching experience, this book needs to be on everyone's to-read list.
Note- If you have a soft spot for Mrs Indira Gandhi, please don't bother to read this. This here refers to Such a Long Journey.Leaving aside the political situation it highlight, this is about nostalgia, friendship, empathy,and sympathy. Punchuated by melancony at each paragraph, the story develops on nothing extra ordinary but the ordinary. Despite having no twist or climax this long journey with Parsis , is a beauty. This is a simple story, about simple people having simple dreams-ambitions which simply find its place.
I liked this one more than _Family Matters_ but less than _A Fine Balance_. This one is less Bombay-centered, and more generally about India under Indira Gandhi's rule--but without being heavy-handed about the historical and political aspects. What I like most about Mistry is that he's such a gifted storyteller in a simple, detailed (and totally engrossing) way, without having to resort to any of the acrobatics or stylistic maneuvers of someone like Rushdie. As much as I love Rushdie, it's nice to read a novel written the old-fashioned way.
A touching story about a husband and wife and their three children, living in a turbulent world of political conflict and corruption in India, in the early 70's. The story is well written and compelling as one reads about a devoted father's modest life slowly unraveling . The story depicts the challenges of day to day living, as well as long term friendships and the grief of losing loved ones.I found myself going back, and reading up on the history of the time, to better understand the story.
Decent read. The story moves at a slow place and nothing much happens, its fine even if you skip a few pages. Main story catches speed only in the last 40 pages. Detailed description of Parsi lifestyle which is interesting in some parts. Description of Mumbai & Indian politics in 1970-80 adds a flavour to the story. Did not understand the linkage of the coverpage to the story. The controversy caused by this book was totally uncalled for and baseless.
