https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62796.The_Decay_of_the_Angel
So it could be that Mishima’s use of archaisms means he doesn’t translate well into English.
One has no idea why the characters are alternately so goddamned indifferent then so cruel.
Why is there mention of evil out of the blue like that?
What’s evil?
I'd like to be shown Tōru's evil and not simply be told about it.
He lives alone without friends, motivated like most Mishima protagonists, entirely by a mix of naïveté and cryptic self inquiry.
The book seems to me a farrago, a pastiche whose fragments are not without interest, but a novel they do not make.
إن مررت بتلك التجربة فستتفهم مامر به هوندا، وإن لم تتعرض لها...فأنت محظوظ.هذه هي الرواية الرابعة والأخيرة في رباعية بحر الخصب ليكويو ميشيما.
لا أنكر أن هناك شعورا بالألفة و "العِشرة" قد تكون بيني وبين العمل بشخوصه وأماكنه ومفرداته، شأن العديد من الأعمال الطويلة التي تغطي عدة مراحل عمرية، تواكب أجيالاً مختلفة وتصف حقباً متعددة.ختاماً أيها القارئ العزيز، إذا كنت من هواة أدب التشويق والأحداث المتسارعة والحبكة المذهلة، فلا أعتقد أن الرباعية ستلائمك.
أما إن كنت من يبحث إثراء خلفيته في الأدب العالمي والنهل من معين الثقافات، الأديان والمذاهب الفلسفية الغريبة عنه، سواء راقت له أم لم ترق، فإليك أُهدي هذه الرباعية.
Do you think that your hopes and those of someone else coincide, that your hopes can be smoothly realized for you by someone else? People live for themselves and think only of themselves. You who more than most think only of yourself have gone too far and let yourself be blinded. You thought that history has its exceptions. There are none. You thought that the race has its exceptions. There are none. There is no special right to happiness and none to unhappiness. There is no tragedy and there i
If there is on this earth something exceptional, special beauty or special evil, nature finds it out and uproots it.
It tells the story of an elderly Honda and Tōru, a 16-year-old he adopts after noticing that the boy had a certain characteristic that led the old man to believe he was in the presence of Kiyoaki’s third reincarnation, the protagonist of Spring Snow, the first volume, which, despite my previous doubts, is still my favorite of the series.
In any case, Honda’s vulnerability made me forget, from time to time, the disgust I felt in The Temple of Dawn, the previous volume.
However, I wanted to strangle Mishima for writing some other parts that I felt were not only uncalled for but intentionally annoying to read (I'm looking at you, several descriptions of harbor boats).
It makes me want to go back and read the first one again, if only that.
There might be a good reason why Mishima chose to stage his coup right after finishing this final piece.
Perhaps it is not Honda but Mishima who arrives with the reader where there is no memory -- to the place where the noontide sun of summer flows over an empty garden.
L'altro protagonista è un sedicenne, Toru, orfano, impiegato come guardia costiera, il quale "sapeva che la ricchezza e la virtù erano incompatibili" e "viveva lontano dall'ambizione, dall'avidità, dalle passioni".La prima parte è un susseguirsi di grandiose descrizioni marine : "Il sole spuntò di nuovo, e di nuovo il sole si trasformò nella placida dimora della bianca luce" ; "il bianco delle onde diventò per un istante del colore della rosa gialla, annunciando l'arrivo della sera".Honda, "dopo aver superato i settant'anni, ciò che aveva visto ogni mattina al suo risveglio era il volto della morte".
meleğin çürüyüşü, 1912 yılında başlayan bereket denizi dörtlemesini 1970'lere taşıyıp muhteşem bir finalle sonlandırıyor.
"bereket denizi'nin sonu" yazan son sayfa çevrildiğinde "bu kitaplara yaşamla ve bu dünyayla ilgili hissettiğim ve düşündüğüm her şeyi yansıttım" diyen ve romanı tamamladığı gün intihar eden mişima'nın sade, derin, şiddetli ve acımasız gerçekliğini yanıbaşımızda buluyoruz.
kopkoyu bir karanlık kalıyor geride bereket denizi'nden.
bereket denizi: ay yüzeyindeki geniş düzlüğe verilen ad.
bereket denizi, bereketli değil.
bereket denizi, deniz bile değil.
bereket denizi, bir damla su bile değil.
bereket denizi susuzluğun ta kendisi.
İlk gençlik yıllarından, yaşlılığa uzanan bir aşk ve bilgelik yolculuğu. Doğu ve Batı felsefesini özümseyen, karşılaştıran ve eleştiren inanılmaz sayfalar. Her dört kitap da insan hayatının farklı evrelerindeki duygular, düşünceler ve beklentiler ile kötücüllükleri çarpıcı bir incelikle ve bütünlük içerisinde anlatıyor. Her cümleyi yeniden ve yeniden okumak istedim. Japon Kültürünü tanımak ve Japon Edebiyatına adım atmak için en doğru seçim.
I feel like my love for this book stems mainly from certain aspects that have little to do with the book itself.As an admirer of Yukio Mishima, this book meant much more to me than any other novel of his, since it documented his last thoughts before his poetic demise.
The finished manuscript waited on the desk as he turned his life into the "Line of Poetry written with a splash of Blood" that he had longed for, letting his fictional world collapse along with him in a poetic climax.
He will always be one of the most honest and poetically destructive writers that has ever lived.
الإختلاف بين الرواية من جهة والمسرحية والفيلم من جهة أخرى أن الشخصية التي تفقد مركز القوى في هذه الرواية - هوندا - واعية تماماً لما يحدث بل وتدفع في إتجاهه على عكس جوليا وتوني.كينوي شخصية جذابة فهي تمثل الإنكار الجسدي والذي ترتب عليه بالضرورة الجنون في حين أن تورو يمثل الإنكار النفسي - أو الروحي - وبسبب إرتباطه بفكرة التناسخ فقد فرديته وتفوقه وكان سقوطه.لم أستشعر العلاقة بين الرواية وقرار إنتحار ميشيما وإن كان بالرواية حكاية رمزية - الفأر الذي ظن أنه قط - قد تساعد على فهم فكرة الإنتحار والغرض منها والتأكيد على أنها عمل إيجابي وليس سلبياً وفقاً للثقافة اليابانية.النهاية صعبة التفسير ومفاجئة للغاية، توقعت ألا يقدر هوندا على لقاء ساتوكو ويلحق بكيواكي - التجلي الأول - لكن اللقاء كان مربكاً لي.إجمالاً، الرباعية عمل أدبي فذ لابد وأن يكون على قائمة القراءة لهواة الأدب عامة والرواية بشكل خاص.
And that knowledge is somewhat haunting.Not surprisingly the notion of mortality creeps up more than once in the course of the slimmest of the four novels, although the quartet as a whole has been obsessed with the idea of growing older and losing the fire of youth, it seems more poignant here even as Mishima eschews sentimentality almost entirely.
We run into Honda again and find the man in his eighties, old enough to realize that the good times are behind him (even though he's quite rich) and prepared to slide into oblivion the same way he has coasted through life, unable or unwilling to leave or make much of an impact.
Final volume of Sea of Fertility tetralogy. I cannot say anything more.
Nihayet bitti ama final alisilmadik beklenmedik bir finaldi acikcasi.Bir iki ve dörduncu kitaplar oldukca iyiydi ucuncu beni bunalti bir kac defa vazgecme durumunda kaldim, ve burda hemen belirteyim tirnak icinde kitap orginal dilinden cevrilseydi cok daha iyi olacagina inaniyorum.
japon yazarlari simdi cok okunuyor turkcede ve dunyadada, orginal dilinden ceviri her zaman bir adim öndedir en azindan.
Burda uzun uzun yazmak istemiyorum cunku "Bereket Denizi"ni blogumda daha uzun ve daha derin anlatmak istiyorum.
Tavsiye edecegim bir eser Bereket Denizi dörtlemesi, Felsefik yani bence agir basan bambaska bir dunya görusune sahip bir yazarin siradisi bir eseri.
Có một vẻ đẹp và sức hút đáng sợ ở "Bể phong nhiêu", kiệt tác của Mishima, di chúc mà ông để lại cho thế giới.
Một suy tư đến kiệt cùng, riết róng, gần như đau đớn, và sắc lạnh, về cái đẹp trong nghĩa gần như tuyệt đối dưới những dạng thức cụ thể rất khác nhau của nó, và ý nghĩa thực sự của điều này - nỗi ám ảnh bởi cái đẹp, bởi sự thuần khiết vốn đơn giản là một cách gọi khác của cái đẹp -, những con đường khác nhau mà nó dẫn tới trong thế giới thực: những tuyệt lộ.Đọc hết "Bể phong nhiêu", ta không còn hỏi tại sao Mishima tự sát bằng cách đó ngay trong ngày viết dòng cuối của kiệt tác này.
Si è introdotti, dopo una descrizione di ambienti marini, alla figura di Toru, un orfano dall’età di sedici anni, il quale lavora come sorvegliante sulla costa ed è volontariamente isolato dalla società con riserbo e una certa considerazione di sé.
Ritorna quindi il personaggio di Honda (vedovo e legato all’amico Keiko), oramai quasi ottuagenario e sempre più affetto dagli affanni senili, che intravede in Toru, tramite alcuni ricorrenti indizi e analogie, la probabile terza reincarnazione dell’amico Kiyoaki (pur nutrendo alcuni dubbi in merito alla data precisa della morte di Ying Chan).
Just finished Decay of Angel.
I haven't even met the Angel yet (still waiting for Spring Snow to arrive) and he is already decayed.
This final novel of Mishimas is sparse but fascinating.
It is easy to imagine him deciding that he had had enough by the end of it.
There is so much weariness, so much pain, and so much bitterness too.
How well he knew the human condition by this stage.
Too well I think.
Too much awareness is never an easy burden to bear but without it you can't be a great writer.
As I knew it would.
Decay is evident in Honda and the depiction of human aging, but also in the land itself.
It is fitting that his final book was about death and dying, and the illusion of life.
She tells a baffled Honda that she never knew a Kiyoaki, leading him to doubt that anything in the previous books happened, and that "perhaps then there has been no I." While this may sound like an existential crisis, ending with what seems like a "it was all a dream" trope conclusion, it becomes more than that when you consider Mishima's intense focus on Buddhist doctrines throughout the Sea of Fertility.
با یک گپ برزگ اسکار مزخرف ترین شروع کتاب تعلق میگیره به کتاب زوال فرشته....واقعا این شروع چی بود اونم از این نویسنده. بار ها اسمشو شنیده بودم نتظار خیلی بیشتری داشتم. اولین کتاب از این نویسنده بود. که ماملا نا امیدم کرد10 صفحه ازش خوندم و پرتش کردم یه گوشه
Bereket Denizi'nin Sonu... Son kitap özellikle sarsıcı sonu ve cevapsız bıraktığı bazı şeyler ile kuşkusuz serinin en ilginç kitabı. İnsanı uzun süre düşünmeye mahkum ediyor/edecek. Bu kitabı iyi kavramak kesinlikle üçüncü kitabın iyi anlaşılması zorunluluğunu getiriyor. İnanılmaz gizli bağlantılar var. Simgesel, içsel ve mistik... Yavaş yavaş okumanızı tavsiye ederim. Mishima kendi imgelerini oluşturmuş bir yazar. Hiçbir genel-geçere affı yok. Hepsini kökten değiştirmiş. Bu serinin bitmesi ile insan en başından beri sahip olmaya çabaladığı, köksel düşüncelerinin dibine kezzap döküldüğünü hissediyor. Ne edin ne yapın bu seriyi okuyun.5/5
What a masterful conclusion to “The Sea of Fertility” tetralogy- the whole four works can seem daunting at times, but like the moss on a tree side allow it to slowly envelope you. Do not resist, to fight is futile, decay always prevails.
The ending is also possibly the most shocking in all of literature.The year is now 1970, and Shikeguni Honda adopts a young orphan named Toru, who he believes is the third successive reincarnation of Kiyoaki.
The decay present throughout the book is especially present in Honda, who we meet as as a man of seventy-six and who reaches eighty-one by the novel's end.
But all in all, it is the mind of Honda that is the important setting, not the country around him.By far the most impressive part of the novel is its surprise ending, which demolishes the entire “Sea of Fertility” cycle in a most impressive way when Honda meets Satoko again, who tells him either the mundane truth or the secret to enlightenment itself.
Honda (octogenarian sex offender) now thinks that Kiyoaki (beautiful lover), Isao (beautiful fighter) and Ying Chan (beautiful lesbian) have been distilled into something evil and not particularly beautiful: Toru.
Mishima starts explaining crucial events in summary and skipping great chunks of time (something I'd loved him to have done with the first part of "The Temple of Dawn").
Toru's attack on Honda, the fate of the dream book, the attempted suicide and Honda and Keiko's argument are all passed off in a couple of sentences.
Unwittingly demonstrating that, through her relationship with Ying Chan, she knows that Toru is no Kiyoaki or Isao:"There is nothing in the least special about you.
This starts off kind of slow, and Mishima spends a lot of time boggled down with bleak, repetitious descriptions of Toru's ship-watching job juxtaposed with Honda as he enters old age.
The final pages show Honda, after sixty years, desperately trying to make sense of the doomed soul that has crossed his life in so many forms already, and which in the final moments of the book, are brilliantly called into question, not with a flagrant, overwrought showpiece (bread and butter for Mishima) but in a staggering act of negation and contemplation.
Bereket Denizi serüvenim sonunda bitti.
Bir sıralama yapayım önce: Kaçak Atlar mükemmeldi serinin en iyi kitabı.Bahar Karları ikinci güzel kitaptı.Meleğin Çürüyüşü üçüncü.En son Şafak Tapınağı'ydı çünkü bitirene kadar canımdan bezmiştim!
Meleğin Çürüyüşü final kitabı olması dolasıyla hüzünlü bir hava verdi bana.
Sonunda beklediğim gibi ne evet ne hayır dercesine kafa karıştırdı, öyle de bitirdi.
Mişima'nın hayatını da aynı bu kitap serisinde olduğu gibi yaşadığına yürekten inanıyorum.
Çok sevdiğim bir seriydi, bitirmek garip hissettirdi çünkü Japonya'nın uzun süreli siyasi hayatını, inançların insan üzerindeki etkisini, kültür kaybını vs...
Honda'yı en baştan beri sevemedim, soğuk nevale geldi bana hep ama sonunda sempatimi kazandı.
The Sea of Fertility by Yukio Mishima“The most complete vision we have of Japan in the twentieth century.”-Paul TherouxOn the morning of November 25th 1970, the three-time Nobel nominee and 45 year old Yukio Mishima (the pen name of Hiraoka Kimitake) finished The Decay of the Angel, the final book in his seminal Sea of Fertility tetralogy. It was published into the world much akin to John Kennedy Tool's A Confederacy of Dunces: as renowned for its literary me...more The Sea of Fertility by Yuki
It was published into the world much akin to John Kennedy Tool's A Confederacy of Dunces: as renowned for its literary me...more The Sea of Fertility by Yukio Mishima“The most complete vision we have of Japan in the twentieth century.”-Paul TherouxOn the morning of November 25th 1970, the three-time Nobel nominee and 45 year old Yukio Mishima (the pen name of Hiraoka Kimitake) finished The Decay of the Angel, the final book in his seminal Sea of Fertility tetralogy.
a realm of solid, definite indigo, where seeing cast of the shackles of consciousness and itself became transparent, where phenomena and consciousness dissolved like plumbic oxide in acetic acid."pg 15 "The joy of seeing, where everything was self evident and given, lay only at the invisible horizon, far beyond the sea.
Something came over him to drive away his consciousness of old age, a sort of pleading, as if he had buried his face in her warm bosom."pg 55 "Honda said to himself: ' The moment I die they will all go' The thought came to him as a happy one, a sort of revenge.
Esto es una obra de madurez, donde todas las obsesiones formales, éticas/ideológicas y estéticas están ya cristalizadas – creo que es necesario haber pasado por varias de sus obras anteriores para reconocer qué es lo que se repite y porqué.
Cuando afirmo que Mishima es poéticamente desconcertante, me refiero a descripciones como éstas que hace del mar,… termina comparándolo con el cuerpo de un hombre (¡!).
Ésta es una de las lecciones más valiosas que un hombre debe aprender en la vida.
Ésta es la única sabiduría que tengo para comunicar a ojos tan magníficos.»(Caballos desbocados, c.
This final book is the thorny crown gouged into the king's head.Honda discovers a young man he believes to be the reincarnation of his friend.
Things don't go as Honda hoped to foresee them.Mishima committed suicide immediately after this book was completed.
This was annoying because I wanted to know what happened in the story, not dwell in the lofty observations of some teenage transcendentalist.
The short page count put me on edge, "Can he save this story, this series!
Anyhow, the entire series is amazing, each book able to stand on its own but charging the overall story forward to a spectacular conclusion.
I think about life, and I think about death...and then I think some more, and now I prefer neither over the other. Human existence is absurdly comedic, and painfully miniscule simultaneously. There is no such thing as a heroic death nowadays....
أستطيع أن أطلق على هذه الكتب الأربعة المتصلة ببعضها البعض هي أجمل ماقرأت لهذا العام.من النادر جداً ا
As a novel, it is in so many ways, uneven, laden with clunky symbolism, and the truly embarrassing conceit of “and now, I'm going to be EVIL!!!”And yet, carried by Mishima's graceful prose, it works.
And it contains some killer parts, a wonderful monologue by an embittered old lady, and a weird, floaty, elliptical ending that draws in like the closing scene in an Antonioni film.
Despite some rather lame premises, Mishima is still able to subvert the expectations of this seasoned consumer of narrative.I recently finished Boardwalk Empire, and wondered why it is that all these arty TV dramas still hold onto the Shakespearean ending with the death or the wedding of the protagonist.
