https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23220.Size_12_Is_Not_Fat
All of her books are incredibly enjoyable so long as you're into chick lit and light reads.Don't let the title of this one fool you.
I wasn't disappointed by what I got, it was just different.In my opinion, the plot lines of the Heather Wells Mystery books aren't all that riveting.
But Meg Cabot knows exactly what she's doing with her characters.
I keep coming back for more Heather Wells, and each time I just sort of giggle to myself over the plot, but by the end of each book I'm more in love with the characters than I have ever been before.
I thought this was pretty typical chick lit, albeit of the mystery variety.
It was light, entertaining and didn't require much thinking, which is why I chose it, so no complaints there.
Although she saved the day at the end (of course), I found her to be often whiny and passive about everything but solving the mystery.
The writing style bothered me sometimes, too - the "size 12 is NOT fat" tagline was used over and over again, and the "dorm, I mean residence hall" line made me want to tear my hair out by the end.
Okay, let me summarize this book (style-spoiler, but I won't give away anything you couldn't guess after reading the back cover):"I'm a size 12, which is, you know, the size of the average American woman.
So I'm totally not fat or self-obsessed.
I think the two girls who fell down the elevator shaft of de dorm - I mean, residence hall - are murdered because, you know, girls don't elevator surf.
But, um, you know, I have to find out who murdered these girls because the police won't listen to me.
Yet another re-read! I'm a re-reading machine this month. Also, Meg Cabot is love Meg Cabot is life. I would read her grocery lists and love them.
Okay, so I don't think everyone would enjoy this book. It's the epitome of chick lit. I like to think of it as Veronica Mars meets Bridget Jones. Our main character is very chatty and the writing style is conversational. The jokes are very repetitive and the mystery is easy to figure out but I had a fun time reading this. I'm sure I enjoyed this mostly because it's a book I read in high school and it made me feel very nostalgic.
A cute mystery book about a former pop star who becomes the assistant resident advisor to a  dormitory excuse me, residence hall. When her residents turn up dead in bizarre elevator accidents, she takes it upon herself to investigate when the police don't.Has the Meg Cabot flair we all loved. Great beach read. Got a 3 because it was cute and I liked it but I didn't love it/wouldn't reread it. Definitely want to see more of Cooper in the other books.
I read the first two chapters and realised this was a book that would constantly hit me over the head with the pitiful woes of a 28 year-old woman who peaked early and is desperately trying to persuade herself into thinking she's okay with that.(I guess the title should have been warning enough. You don't have to convince me that a size 12 isn't fat, Heather [Meg] - maybe check in with yourself.)
This is a cute chick-lit book with a side of mystery.
Heather is a former pop singer who caught her fiance with another woman and whose mom ran off with her small fortune.
I really enjoyed the fact that this girl isn't a whiner like so many chick lit princesses and is getting on with her life on her own terms.
She's no longer a skinny young pop star and is living in a rented brownstone owned by her former fiance's gorgeous brother who dates size 2's and whom she has a hopeless crush on.
I decided I wanted to see how Meg Cabot writes for adults, since I like the Princess Diaries so much.
And, honestly, what red-blooded American woman wouldn't be drawn in by the title of this book?
Heather's love for Cooper is sort of over-the-top (given she just broke up with his brother four months ago!)--and icky.
But I enjoyed Heather's spunkiness, and am willing to forgive some of the repetitiveness of certain points: yes, I know you like DoveBars.
And think Cooper is hot.
And you love your dog.
I have recommended this book to many people, though, so I must have gotten something out of it.
Trigger warnings: murder, some fat phobia.
I'd never read anything by Meg Cabot before, but I've been intrigued by this for a while now.
I liked Heather as a character.
I liked her investigating the crimes and interacting with Cooper and her being all "HEY, STOP CALLING ME FAT WHEN I'M THE SAME SIZE AS THE AVERAGE U.S. WOMAN".
I could have done without every second character pointing out Heather's weight when, like, a size 12 honestly IS.
FAT.
Still not fat, yo.) Am I interested enough to keep reading?
But, like, when I finish pretty much everything on my TBR.
The music industry is really ruthless if this book is anything to go by, if they judge people for being overweight rather than the quality of their singing. Oh, humanity. -_-Anyway, this book is alright, probably not a book that I would personally read again but I liked the main character's resilience and determination, and the descriptive setting.
If you're looking for a hardcore, edge-of-your-seat thriller, this isn't the book for you. However if you are looking for an entertaining read with a hint of mystery, I recommend "Size 12 is Not Fat" by Meg Cabot.The downside to "Size 12 is Not Fat" is that it took considerable time to get into the story and I did guess the culprit very early on however the positives include very likeable characters and an amusing and entertaining read.I liked it enough to decide to read the next in the series, "Size 14 is Not Fat Either".
This book was one of the worst mysteries that I have ever read.
I hate when mysteries make everyone else in the story so dumb that only the main character realizes that it was murder.
While reading, I had to keep reminding myself that she was 28 since her action and thoughts seemed more to me like those of a much younger person.
The only thing I have to say good about it is that it was a quick read at least.
Size 12 is about former teen pop star, Heather Wells, several years after her fame has gone away.
Since then she's had to find her own way in the world since her life as a teen star is over.
But Heather knows that girls do not elevator surf and takes up upon herself to find out what's really going on.
I expected Size 12 to just be some fun, light fluff and that's exactly what it was.
I'm not even going to dignify this book by a rating.
It was one of the worst books I've ever read and I couldn't even finish it.
Heather's character is a complete "airhead blonde".
She tries to play at being detective.
But oh boy!!
I felt the need to strangle her throughout the whole portion of the book that I've actually managed to read.
Her character is so one dimensional that it's bordering on pathetic.
And oh my God!!!
Recommendation  : DO NOT PICK UP THIS BOOK UNLESS YOU'RE DESPERATE FOR SOME READING MATERIAL AND YOU'VE EXHAUSTED ALL OTHER OPTIONS
The book does not do a good job of developing secondary characters besides Cooper (her ex's brother and P.I.) and the why behind the murders was pretty awful.
Heather is an ex-teen singing sensation who is now broke living with Cooper (her ex's brother) and working as an assistant dorm director at a college in New York.
We either have Heather investigating (quotes) obsessing about Cooper, obsessing about her ex, obsessing about her size, or trying to hide from her past in this one.
I got a good sense of where Heather lived and the dorm.
My main issue was it felt like a YA novel (and it's not supposed to be).-Pop culture references crammed into every possible space and most of the time completely irrelevant.
The title (Size 12 is Not Fat), the constant correction of 'dorm' to 'residence hall' (Heather Wells, the narrator, corrects herself AND everyone around her), and the fact she is "too lazy" to shower so she always has to have a bath (IMO baths take way more time and effort then showers).-The ending was weird.
This book deserved 2.5 stars really. I liked it ok, but not much more than that. The character was cute but a lot of the writing was very simple. I got really tired of the author using the same expressions all the time ( "haven't I seen you before?" and "I know because I read it in a People magazine") I got so tired of them that I almost stopped reading. The storyline is cute and there is a little romance thrown in so it was a great read after a heavier memoir.Total fluff but a fun read nonetheless.
Sigh, I wish I could say better things about this book, but I feel I nearly wasted the few hours it took me to read it.
In a few words - the romance was extremely thin, not really any communication, fun/sexy dialogues or relationship with Mr Right.
And what about that silly murder inquiry?
Implausible from the start.
I suppose the redeeming feature was to be the 'fun' and funny?
situations and Heather's over the top and cute interior monologues.
Actually Heather managed to get on my nerves quite a few times.
I will not be reading number 2 in the series.
Heather is a 28-year-old washed-up teen pop-star who use to fill malls with screaming pre-teens and now is assitant director at a college dorm.
Girls start ending up dead in Heather's dorm and she just knows it's murder and won't rest until she finds the killer.There are so many bad things about this book.
It comes up almost a much as the food thing.
I was going to scream if I had to read about Heather wanting to rip Cooper's clothes off with her teeth again.*Heather's career and life goals are totally based on wanting Cooper to fall in love with her.
Worse that is a theme in this book repeated by other characters.
This could have been so much better, but instead the main character says "Like" too much, is portrayed as a role model for women who are not stick-thin and yet constantly obsesses about how miserable and hideous she is before she distracts herself with some sort of chocolate or baked thing, and is surprisingly easily distracted from the recently-witnessed murder scene by her landlord's nice bottom.There are so many things that don't make sense in this.
If you cut all the cutesy repetition, catch-phrases, self-obsession, complaints about weight (and food cravings), the word "like" and shoddy descriptions of two-dimensional characters from this book, I think we'd be left with a couple of dead bodies in an elevator shaft.
And while I liked the idea of a girl detective at a residence hall, I was decidedly not into the central romance of the book, (view spoiler)[Cooper and Heather (hide spoiler)].
It feels obvious they're going to end up together, I know just how they get there, and I'm not interested enough to read four more books.
It sounds like Heather was popular a long time ago (and she needs time to you know ...
get to a size 12), but Jordan keeps showing up in her life at such an alarming cadence that it seems like their breakup was only months ago.
In typical Meg Cabot form, the first book in a new series introduces us to an imperfect heroine who, by the end of the book with realize her true potential and strive to make herself happy with herself/her faults and then attractive to the guy she never thought possible.I like Heather Wells and I'm not afraid to say it.
Now the mystery itself was very easy to figure out, but I liked the setting and the characters.
You read Cabot to escape for a bit, and she definitely has with "Size Twelve is not fat." I'm going to look at the other books in the Heather Wells series.
Heather Wells is a former pop star who must now face an uncertain future after losing her fortune, her recording contract, and her fiance in a short period of time.
Heather now works in a dorm, which the school calls a "residence hall in one of NY top colleges.
and then another--- so now Heather will be a 'spunky girl detective' This is definitely a chick-lit mystery and it doesn't pretend to be anything else.
Others have liked this cozy- so I would take my review with a grain of salt- read the other reviews and maybe give it a try.
“I'm going to fall in love with someone else just as soon as I can.
But in the meantime, is it so wrong that I enjoy his company?”I abso-freaking-lutely loved this book!Every goddamn page made me laugh and want more.
I loved the main character, Heather Wells.
I loved every character, even the villain and her ex-fiancé.
Like he has a new fiancé - go be with her and leave Heather alone.I'm completely shipping Heather and Cooper forever and ever.
I need more of them in the book.
So, thank you Meg Cabot for making me fall in love with another book of yours.
Such a fun read!Well,aren't all Meg Cabot books always fun?I think that's a straight fact.I love our main character Heather,of course,and the way she thinks.Such a cool character!She is funny,pretty smart,talented and head over heels for Cooper.There's a lot of mystery,funny dialogues,creepy ex-boyfriend moments,great supporting characters and,of course,moments that will make you go:I hope that my local library has the sequel to this book because I can't wait to find out what will happen to our lovely Heather next!Things I really liked:1.) Heather.Such a funny and realistic character.And not fat,by the way.2.) I really like her friend Magda!
It’s the size of the average American woman.
The average American woman is fat, Heather.''[...]It takes me a while to realize that the breathing isn’t my own.
This is a fun light read.
You move quickly from one incident to the other trying to figure out the mystery with Heather.Our heroine Heather Wells is a former teen pop star now trying to put herself through college by working in a residence hall.
The mystery was fun and well plotted.
One of my issues with the book, that prevent this being a 5 star read, was how certain phrases or scenarios get beaten to death.
Heather's history as a pop star also lends itself to some annoying repeats - everyone seems to recognize her vaguely.
All in all a fun read!

This was cute. Heather was quirky. Cooper a bit of mystery. I can't wait to see how this series unfold! And I totally agree that size twelve is not fat! LOL
However, I really like Meg Cabot as an author, and I decided to check out the Heather Mills Mysteries series.
::looking around at worthless piece of toad dropping cheaters in the audience::Tiffany (total 1980's reference) aka Heather Wells, was once a teen sensation who gave concerts at local malls.
As one of those who wears something over a size 12, I'm glad that there are books like this out there.
