https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15819757-the-jewel-robbery-at-the-grand-metropolitan
Excited by his anecdotes, the wealthy matron eagerly offers to show him a very expensive pearl necklace, but when she goes to retrieve it, she discovers that it has been stolen...My Review: Another 99¢ Kindle Single and fifth season episode of Agatha Christie's Poirot.The story is a simpler version of the same basic caper tale the episode tells.
And now there's a tis-was over incredibly valuable pearls stolen from under the nose of the ladies' maid after the opening of the crummy play that Opalson used Poirot to help promote?
Poirot really is the King of the Humble Brag, isn't he? I just adore him. This was a great story, much less complicated and flashy when compared to the television adaptation. Christie is a really no-nonsense (unless it is humorous nonsense, usually at her own expense) sort of writer. And yet, she can take a crime that seems so simple or ordinary and make a wonderful story out of the solving of it.
This one is a simple but interesting plot.Whether it is murder or robbery Poirot has an interesting method of cracking the case.
No matter how clever the baddies are a simple mark left on a dusty table is all Poirot needed to catch them this time.
There were only two suspects, the two servants.
The others have come to the wrong conclusion when in fact one suspect was framed by the other with a fake diamond.
How did Poirot know it was fake straightaway?
It does not really matter anyway enough said.
Audiobook - part of Poirot Investigates - David Suchet narratesThese fictional women and their constant bragging about their jewels. They're just asking for it. 4 stars
Definitely didn't guess the ending, but I feel like she could have done better, it was a little bit confusing, kind of boring, and one of the suspects doesn't even really come into it so why suspect them when you haven't really introduced the reader to the character? But other than that, enjoyable.
David Suchet narrated the version I listened to.I enjoyed this short story, and as is his wont Poirot solved it by his marvellous obsession with detail and method.
Poirot and Hastings are attending an evening out when they meet the Opalsens. Mrs. Opalsen goes up to get her pearls, but discovers them missing. The chambermaid and the French maid are suspected. A forgery is found, resulting in the French maid's arrest.Poirot uses a different kind of business card and reveals the real thieves. (view spoiler)[ The chambermaid and the valet worked together to steal the pearls. But they didn't do the work their roles demanded and left behind clues. (hide spoiler)
Poirot and Hastings are attending an evening out when they meet the Opalsens. Mrs. Opalsen goes up to get her pearls, but discovers them missing. The chambermaid and the French maid are suspected. A forgery is found, resulting in the French maid's arrest.Poirot uses a different kind of business card and reveals the real thieves. (view spoiler)[ The chambermaid and the valet worked together to steal the pearls. But they didn't do the work their roles demanded and left behind clues.  (hide spoiler)]
Poirot! David Suchet! Enough said.
Poirot does it again
Listened to this one as I hiked around a local lake. Was a great listen. Just wish it would have been longer.
