https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2164749._
If i were marooned on a god-forsaken island with just one book, this is the one i'd wish to have. Hilarious, sarcastic and intense, it has the same charm even if you read it for the n-th time. The modern day "shining" India, depicted through a village in a most natural manner make it one of the best satires you'll ever come across. The book is full of conversations reading which you'd be compelled to pause for a while and have a laugh. A must read.
Shrilal Shukla's masterpiece Raag Darbari is a representative novel of the rapidly changing (or degrading) values & ethos in India's rural heartland post independence.
Ranganath discovers that the concept of village life being purer than city life is a myth, that's been shattered with the influx of petty politics, turf feuds & dubious morality into rural life.Shrilal Shukla's Shivpalganz is not just one village, but it epitomizes any Indian village that underwent a transformation in the face of the social & political changes sweeping the country.
Similarly, Ranganath is a representative of the common educated Indian, who find himself hapless & clueless in the face of rapid degradation in values.
Do check out the full book review on our blog Rag Darbari by Shrilal Shukla - Book reviewShrilal Shukla is known as one of the prominent Hindi authors.
It also had mentioned of Raag Darbari, since then I wanted to read this book.This story is set in the village Shivpalganj, Uttar Pradesh; the period is of post-independence.
In short, the whole village politics is running under his hand.This book is outstanding and the way author has served humor, great story-line, character, and message are appreciable.
The village shown in this book is an epitome of our country.
एक अनोखी शैली है शुकल साहब की। शिवपालगंज सही में एक गाँव है या नहीं, मेरे लिए कहना मुशकिल होगा। शरीम
एक अनोखी शैली है शुक्ल साहब की। शिवपालगंज सही में एक गाँव है या नहीं, मेरे लिए कहना मुश्किल होगा। श्

खुद को अन्दर से बाहर तक पूरा खुला हुआ महसूस कर के कैसा लगता है ?
Set in rural India post independence, the focus is on the political agitations in the village society.Every couple of pages have that sarcastic punch on the government and system, which will have you rolling.
And the fun (actually sad!) part is all of the sarcastic pokes still holds true after 50 years when it was first published.Easy flowing Hindi topped with some Avadhi dialect conversations making it humorous throughout.I love books which have intelligent chapter titles.
This one is devoid of chapter titles and yet is more precious than chapter titles for its unique art.
It has different stamp sized inscriptions at the beginning of every chapter which relates to the chapter setting.
अगर किसी किताब ने आपको आरमभ से लेकर अंत तक हसाया है, गुदगुदाया है, तमाचा मारा है, आँखें खोली है, यथारथ दिखलाया है तो वो राग दरबारी ही है.
जी हाँ, आपको इन सारी चीज़ों के लिए कई सारी पुसतकें पढनी नहीं पड़ेगी.
सिरफ आपको राग दरबारी पढना होगा.
एक ऐसे गाँव की कहानी जो न ही शहर है ना ही गाँव है.
उसमे भरषटाचार वयापत है.
लेकिन इतने रोचक और कटाकष के साथ शरीलाल जी ने यह उपनयास लिखा है की आपका मन कभी नहीं करेगा यह पुसतक न पढने का.
आप किसी भी एक पंकति को उठा लें आप उसमे जरूर मुसकुरा देंगे.
अगर किसी किताब ने आपको आरम्भ से लेकर अंत तक हसाया है, गुदगुदाया है, तमाचा मारा है, आँखें खोली है, यथार्थ दिखलाया है तो वो राग दरबारी ही है.
लेकिन इतने रोचक और कटाक्ष के साथ श्रीलाल जी ने यह उपन्यास लिखा है की आपका मन कभी नहीं करेगा यह पुस्तक न पढने का.
कोई रचयिता कैसे पहली से लेकर आखरी पंक्ति तक किताब में वही रोचकता बनाए रख सकता है?
पात्र आपस में कितना सहज ढंग से बात करते हुए भी आज के समाज का आइना दिखला देते हैं.
५ सितारे भी कम हैं इस उपन्यास के लिए, जरूर पढ़ें.
Raag Darbari is a lesson in cynicism. It is a heavy satire on the so called intellectuals of modern India and although the book was written in '68, it remains relevant and contemporary till date.Read it for stark dark humor.
वैसे तो 'राग दरबारी' का परकाशन 1968 में हुआ था। यानी आज से लगभग 50 साल पहले। लेकिन इस किताब को पढ़ने 

किताब में हमारी 'सोने की चिड़िया' को तबियत से झाड़ लगायी गयी है.
बड़े दिनों से अंगरेजी के लूले, भोथरे वयंगय पढ़ पढ़ कर मेरा सेनस ऑफ़ हयूमर भी घास चरने निकल गया था.
बचपन में पढे हुए तीखे वयंगयों को भूल गया था.
आजकल सभी लोग बड़े संवेदनशील हो गए हैं, ज़रा सी बात पर उखड जाते हैं और केस कर देते हैं.शरीलाल शुकल की किताब पढ़ते-पढ़ते पूरा बचपन आँखों के आगे घूम गया और मशतिषक के कोनों से यादें निकलीं जो बहुत दिनों पहले मैं खो चुका था.
आगे बढ़ते-बढ़ते जितना हँसते हैं, दिल उतना ही बैठ जाता है.
बड़े दिनों से अंग्रेजी के लूले, भोथरे व्यंग्य पढ़ पढ़ कर मेरा सेन्स ऑफ़ ह्यूमर भी घास चरने निकल गया था.
आजकल सभी लोग बड़े संवेदनशील हो गए हैं, ज़रा सी बात पर उखड जाते हैं और केस कर देते हैं.श्रीलाल शुक्ल की किताब पढ़ते-पढ़ते पूरा बचपन आँखों के आगे घूम गया और मश्तिष्क के कोनों से यादें निकलीं जो बहुत दिनों पहले मैं खो चुका था.
कुकुरमुत्तों की तरह उगते फालतू अंग्रेजी साहित्य के बीच इस किताब को पढना वाकई राहत दे रहा है.ये कोई समीक्षा नहीं है, बस चीनी फोन की तरह में भी घरघरा रहा हूँ.
Outstanding.Brilliant.Haven't read a better satire.Not a single line of the novel could be skipped.Each sentence is filled with wit and aphorism.
Humour is so subtle and finely woven in the fabric of the story that you keep chuckling to yourself throughout while marvelling at the imagination of the author.
For all those who're not used to reading books in Hindi, an English translation of the book is also available.But it's best enjoyed in Hindi :)
One of the best books i have ever read. Awesome satire and comical book. Everyone who is interested in knowing how our great country actually runs must read it.
Rag Darbari manages to do just that and the medium of Hindi is one of the main reason behind that achievement.Set in the small fiction town of Shivpalganj, the novel moves through different aspects of corruption, gullibility and bullheadedness found in the rural folks.
Shukla comically highlights the bureaucratic sclerosis in the provincial establishment and the emergence of local satraps in small towns who oscillate between the unaware people and the unmindful government.
While any reader would find the novel engaging, the one from small towns and villages of North India will be able to relate to it most closely and laugh harder on author's comic jibes.
हिंदी के कालजयी उपनयास राग दरबारी के बारे में मैंने किसी भी साहितयिक पतरिका या चरचा से अधिक गैर साहि

Indian democratic moment was of huge celebration in theory: a largely poor and unlettered society marching on a leap of faith by introducing universal adult franchise.
Rangnath, an educated youth, with grand idealism in his heart, meets the reality of Indian society and politics in a village.
And he finds himself overwhelmed and amazed at the fact that despite grand book-learning how detached he was from reality.
There can be no better account of ground realty of Indian democracy.
So read it for unmasking not just the Indian democracy, but your own self.
जब आप कोई पुसतक उठाते हैं तो निशचय ही इस बात की कलपना करते हैं की उसमें कुछ जीवन के दरशन और सिदधांतों पर बाते होंगी, जो कभी कभी जयादा खिंच जाने पर कुछ पाठकों को नीरस लग सकती है.
राग-दरबारी में ऐसा कुछ नहीं है, कोई सिददांत और उसूल की बातें नहीं.
बस भारत के ७० दशक के हालत को ऐसी खूबी के साथ उतरा है की हरेक पंकति में एक वयंग और वयंग ऐसा की हँसी यूँही छूट जाएगी.
सवतंतरता की कुछ अवांछनीय परिणाम जिनके बारें में देश के नेताओं ने आजादी के पहले सोचा था और न बाद में, को सामाजिक पटल पर लाकर परसतुत कर दिया
बस भारत के ७० दशक के हालत को ऐसी खूबी के साथ उतरा है की हरेक पंक्ति में एक व्यंग और व्यंग ऐसा की हँसी यूँही छूट जाएगी.
हम भारतियों की कई समस्यायें हैं जो आज़ादी से आजतक बस उलझती ही गयी है...जिनको हम भारतियों ने भारतीय होने का शान बना रखा है मसलन गंदगी, या मौका पाते की अंग्रेजी की गोद में जा बैठना, आज़ादी के बाद बंदरबाट से उपजे भ्रष्टाचार और इन सबको संरक्षित रखने की हमारी अतुल्यनीय चाहत और रोज़-रोज़ नायब तरकीबों के 'इन्वेंशन, इन सब का जायकेदार जिक्र आपको इस किताब में मिल जायेगा.
Different from fiction that talks about allusions and hints, I like the way facts or reality is a common place in this book; however shitty it might be.
The village setting and each character is so vivid in my eyes that it seems to be a lie if Shukla has in some way or the other not lived a part of this book.
I am writing this review in English so that it could reach the mushrooming Indian middle class who reads English but has Hindi as their first language.
A must read in Hindi!
Raag Darbari (राग दरबारी) is a novel so cynical and brutally realistic in its outlook that any other work of fiction appears as an ideological dream sequence.
It is one of the saddest tale ever told - the story of India after independence.
No, not the partition, but the story of its moral, social, political and intellectual corruption.
The novel is drawn across a fictional village Shivpalganj, where Vaidyaji and his goons are the master manipulators and have control over everything that happens.
A must read book for Hindi readers who like politics.परेमचंद जी की कहानियों, उपनयासों में गरामय जीवन का सजीव वरणन है लेकिन वो वरणन मातर उनके जीवन, कृषि जैसे पकष पर आधारित है। राग दरबारी गरामय जीवन के अनय अनछुए पहलू राजनीति पर आधारित है। गाओं में हो रही ये राजनीति घर, गाओं, विदयालय, गराम-सभा, शहर, नगर पालिका, संसद हर जगह दिखाई देती है। उपनयास की सुंदरता ये है कि ये लगभग 50 वरष पहले (1968) लिखा गया था लेकिन आज भी परासंगिक है। Anyone who has spent one's childhood / youth in any village, will find o
A must read book for Hindi readers who like politics.प्रेमचंद जी की कहानियों, उपन्यासों में ग्राम्य 
Highly nuanced even though the style is a classic satire. Witty one liners and references to leaders like Nehru, Panth like they were just their to be read in the newspapers or to be heard on the radio can cover the book in sepia. Leaves the taste of raw mango pickle that most of us sourced from our dear Grandparents tinged with their wisdom and humor. Part social commentary and part piece of literature this is a book rolled many things into one.Glad I picked this one.
A huge number of people consider Raag Darbari to be the funniest book they have read. This book has given me more chuckles than any other work of literature or movie. Srilal Shukla was a bureaucrat, and this book is a product of his life experiences as well as many stories he exchanged with his colleagues. He managed to put it together in an amazing narrative, which is funny, satirical, without sounding facetious or bitter.
Hilarious book. Exceptional writing. Masterpiece.
೧೯೭೧ರಲಲಿ ಪರಕಟವಾದರೂ ಇದರ ವಯಂಗಯ ಇನನೂ ತೀಕಷಣ ವಾಗಿದೆ ಎಂದರೆ ಅದಕಕೆ ಕಾರಣ ವಯವಸಥೆ ಹಾಗೇ ಇರುವುದು
೧೯೭೧ರಲ್ಲಿ ಪ್ರಕಟವಾದರೂ ಇದರ ವ್ಯಂಗ್ಯ ಇನ್ನೂ ತೀಕ್ಷ್ಣ ವಾಗಿದೆ ಎಂದರೆ ಅದಕ್ಕೆ ಕಾರಣ ವ್ಯವಸ್ಥೆ ಹಾಗೇ ಇರುವುದು
One of the best works of Srilal Shukla.
Of all the many books I have read, if I were to pick my top 5 or 10, this would make it every time!I was gifted the English version by my dear friend who knew my Hindi reading and writing isn't up to the mark, thanks to an early convent education in Bengal where my Hindi teacher taught us Hindi in English!
Was it the outstanding wit or beautifully apt prose or searing satire or such detailed painting of any scene in few words that it literally comes alive in the mind or the fly on the wall kind of observations on even the minutest characteristics of people and rural society or purest form of satire that this entire book is!?
when I started reading this book, I thought that the writer was cynical about village society.
that's why there were such Harsh satires.
but slowly after continuing the book I realise that the writer tries to bring the reality rather than romanticising about living in villages of India.
it is an unusual novel where you will see reality and its bare truth.
it is not a story about any person or place but a collective understanding of writer about failure of executing the plans at ground level and the inherent corruption inside individuals, that the corrupt things that they do are just so obvious and they feel like exercising their fundamental right.
I would say that it is Catch 22 in India.
पातर 1. रंगनाथ (शहर से आया नौजवान, वैदय जी इसके मामा लगते हैं)2. रुपपन बाबू (वैदय जी के छोटे पुतर)3. वैदय जी4. बदरी पहलवान (वैदय जी के बडे पुतर)5. छोटे पहलवान6. सनीचर7. बेला (गायदीन की पुतरी)पलायन-संगीततुम मँझोली हैसियत के मनुषय हो और मनुषयता के कीचड़ में फँस गये हो। तुमहारे चारों ओर कींचड़-हीँ-करीचड़ है।कीचड़ की चापलूसी मत करो । इस मुगालते में न रहो कि कीचड़ से कमल पैदा होता है। कीचड़ में कीचड़ ही पनपता है। वहीँ फैलता है, वहीँ उछलता है ।कीचड़ से बचो । यह जगह छोडो । यहाँ से पलायन करो ।वहाँ, जहाँ की रंग
रुप्पन बाबू (वैद्य जी के छोटे पुत्र)3.
बद्री पहलवान (वैद्य जी के बड़े पुत्र)5.
छोटे पहलवान6.
The problems like corruption in cooperative, no education in schools and colleges, obscene politics played by strong players of Shivpalganj and the weak resorting to sycophancy constitute the central plot of story.
have been woven so well and we have strived hard to maintain status quo that a novel written back in 1967 sounds like the story of present!
Like someone told me, the "aroma" of North India envelops you as you read this book.
🤔 In large part, this flavor was imparted by the nature of the English translation, which reminds me of something Ken Liu said about his translation of Cixin Liu's Three Body Problem: "The English words are arranged in such a way that the reader sees a glimpse of another culture's patterns of thinking, hears an echo of another language's rhythms and cadences, and feels a tremor of another people's gestures and movements." And in that, this book has succeeded.
One of the landmark novels of Hindi literature, Raag Darbari by Shrilal Shukl, is a must read for lovers of Hindi fiction. Published in 1968, it is a sarcastic take on the Indian societal and political system. Quite interestingly, the narrative of this timeless classic still holds good in the current scenario.
The book makes you self introspect and realize your helplessness in the context of the way things work in India. As the Author has himself quoted an old review of the book in the preface "Apathit rah jani his iski niyati hai." A must read for every Indian, who can read Hindi.P.S. If you like the "The White Tiger" by Mr. Arvind Adiga, you are definitely gonna love this book.
