https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/395182.Lucky_Jim
Jim Dixon's reflection on old man Welch, the chair of the History Department at the provincial college where the novel is set: "How had he become Professor of History, even at a place like this?
No wonder Amis received a rather cool reception from the English faculty at Cambridge in the years following the publication of Lucky Jim!The humor escalates as Jim Dixon finds himself in a number of increasingly farcical and compromising situations, usually brought on, in part, by his own prankster antics and drinking, at such events as a stay, including obligatory singing, at the home of the Welches, a college sponsored dance and, finally, delivering a required public history lecture to a full house.
As a person who grew up post-Beatles, and who has heard The Beatles ALL THE TIME her entire life, the difference between the impact that I am told The Beatles should have on me, and the actual impact that The Beatles have on me, is a huge, yawning chasm of incomprehensibility.Lucky Jim reminds me of The Beatles.For years I've heard that this novel is the funniest of the 20th century, possibly of all time.
There's huge, yawning Beatles-shaped chasm between my expectations of enjoyment of Lucky Jim and my actual enjoyment of Lucky Jim. And maybe it's just that I'm too young, too American to appreciate how radical Lucky Jim was when it was published.
So if you want to make me laugh with your novel, a scene where old people are getting slowly on and off a bus while the hero impotently gnaws the back of the seat in front will do the trick every time.This was Kingsley's first novel and that's got to be impressive.

to celebrate labor day and fall and back-to-school, here is a list of campus fiction & stuff that i 
In this comic classic from 1954, an...oh God, I can't. I can't muster the fucks for one more book about a white guy who works at a university. I can't. I don't want any more.Here is the plot: this white guy, I don't know, and then whatever. Here's how I felt about it: I felt ennui. I don't care, put me in a chair by the window, put on soft music, let me die.
The group consisted of Dixon, a louse; Bertrand, an asshole; Christine, an angel; Carol, whatever; Margaret, whatever; and Gore-Something, a damn hard name to remember.
JR was a bit indifferent towards Gore-Something at first, he was a cheeky fellow but he didn’t look queer which was good though his name did suggest imbecility.
And yet you can’t pronounce a name as simple as JR?’ He ended this by giving a little smile, he hoped to dear God it wasn’t interpreted as a sexual advance.‘Ha ha!’ laughed Gore-Urquhart.
Christine started laughing.‘My my Mr. JR, you shouldn’t play with Carol like that,’ she said smiling.
Jim, as usual not quite sober, has been asked by Christine, the girl of his dreams, if she should marry a man whom Dixon loathes.'Are you in love with him?''I don't much care for that word,' she said, as if rebuking a foul-mouthed tradesman.'Why not?''Because I don't know what it means.'He gave a quiet yell.
What is difficult, and this time you really do need this dispassionate rubbish, is deciding what to do about being in love if you are, whether you can stick the person you love enough to marry them, and so on.''Why, that's exactly what I've been saying, in different words.''Words change the thing, and anyway the whole procedure's different.
Mentally, however, he was making a different face and promising himself he’d make it actually when next alone.
There is a wonderful description of falling asleep drunk.Amis particularly mocks the provincial academic aspiration to high culture, exemplified in Dixon's supervisor, Professor Welch (‘Now a recorder, you know, isn’t like a flute, though it’s the flute’s immediate ancestor, of course.
Dixon's responses when dragooned into cultural weekends at Welch's home, or forced to give an public lecture on Merrie England, are shambolic.One of the finest things about this novel is the ending.
The gold standard for seditious British humor.
As an old man, Kingsley converted to a Tory welcome at all the best clubs.
Most of his dons at Oxford sat out the war as well.
Most of the book depicts Kingsley's sometimes clandestine, sometimes open warfare with the British class system.
In his Memoirs, Kingsley stated that one of his discoveries at Oxford was that he had "a head for drink".
In this book, he does in fact drink a good deal, usually with rollicking results.
I was really looking forward to reading this having become a fan of Kingsley Amis and his random assembly of hapless, oh-so-british characters after reading The Green Man (its on the 1001 books list so check it out!) and so I picked up Lucky Jim.Meh.The trademark and original (this was his first book) Kingsley characterisations were here but this time they all seemed flattened and thinly stretched.
I know this book has a whole heap of admirable pedigrees and background with characters, situations and places being based on Philip Larkin- a homage - while the sending up of the academic community is something that I, as a fringe loiterer of said community, would whole heartedly applaud and encourage more of.
There's a lot of physical comedy in here, which is weird, like actual Jim Careyish, Jerry Lewisy kind of stuff -- the main character's always making funny faces, which is strange in a novel and I'm not so sure what I think of it.
For me, a lot what makes this book work so well is Amis's gift for creating very real characters amidst these goofy situations.
I mean, obviously they're not real characters, I guess they're comic caricatures, but what makes this book so funny and great is all the moments of recognition where you go, "YES!
Both were outrageously funny books about COASTING university students like me, who survived.I preferred Lucky Jim: it taught me to be bright and positive no matter how bad things got.
And Amis gave me license to Fake It a little.Funny, isn’t it, how kids take novelists as their main mentors no matter how dire the consequences may be!
Too bad for them, if they never know better.At school, you see, I could fake it reasonably well.
and a GOOD PERSON himself!Yes, it’s a funny novel, and Amis’ best.But if you don’t want to pay the piper later, DON‘T try to fake it through life.
Despite the title, you don’t start out thinking of Jim Dixon as particularly lucky.
Jim was not so lucky in love either.
I suspect most readers, like me, end up wanting to see the residue of Jim’s designs pay off.The book was funny and well-written, but was also good for showing a different slice of life.
This was also a period when the English equivalent to the G.I. Bill was in place and Amis knew from his own experiences as a university lecturer that cultural dynamics were changing.
Lucky Jim was viewed as a victory for the common man.
THOU HAS SUMMONED BELPHEGOR, LORD OF THE OPENING, PRINCE OF HELL.
WHAT WOULDST THOU ASK OF THE DEMON OF DISCOVERY?""Oh Mighty Belphegor, the time has come to plan NYRB's Fall 2012 lineup.
What would you have us publish, Lord?""LUCKY JIM.""Beg pardon?""LUCKY JIM.
KINGSLEY AMIS.
ALWAYS WANTED TO READ IT.""But--but, Lord!
Hasn't Penguin Classics already published it?""I CARE NOT.""But...what I mean to say, Master, is that Lucky Jim is hardly the most obscure book out there.
Amis wrote a lot more, too.
PUBLISH THEM TOO.""What?""TEN BOOKS BY KINGSLEY AMIS.
LUCKY JIM PLUS NINE MORE OVER THE NEXT FEW YEARS.
Many years ago, I briefly dated a guy whose favorite book was Lucky Jim. I'd barely heard of the novel at the time, but I made a mental note of it, and for whatever reason I've now finally gotten around to reading it.
I wish I'd read it back when I was dating him, because this portrayal of a totally clueless dude who sometimes hurts people but is completely astonished to realize he's done so because he sees himself as a pure and honest soul just fumbling around would have given me quite an insight into that guy's character.
At the heart of it all is Jim Dixon, a supposedly loveable slacker who expects luck to carry him through life.
Jim comes to the realisation that 'It was luck you needed all along; with just a little more luck he'd have been able to switch his life onto a momentarily adjoining track'.
The last thing Jim needs is more luck – what he really needs is to pull his bloody socks up, control his pathological face-pulling and stop looking for the quick-fix solution to every problem that comes his way.
I didn't know much about this book, but had seen it on a few "best novels of the 20th century lists." I took it on a trip to Toronto with a few other lightweight books, and read it last.
There were two key aspects about the book that hooked me.
The first was the wonderful cast of very memorable and slightly crazy characters.
Yet the author managed to stay within the bounds of belief.The second aspect was the writing: the author, Kingsley Amis, is a marvelous wordsmith and storyteller.
And I found myself laughing out loud on many occasions.I can't recommend this book highly enough.
Sublime.—That was Kingsley Amis, the author, in real life. I picked this book just because of those last three lines in the Author's introduction. The book was remarkable too by the way!4/5 for the Book5/5 for the Author
Among the best books I've read. Funny as all hell, and exactly the sort of funny I like. This is one of the few books I've read multiple times. Every few years I get the itch to read it again.

Specifically Margaret, who he clearly feels like he's settling for in the beginning and then who gets the shaft for Christine simply because she's...not as pretty?
I was, however, interested in how Amis would reconcile Dixon's leaving a mentally unstable woman fresh off a suicide attempt for someone he's just more attracted to.
It was disappointing that, instead of giving this any sort of reflection at all, Amis tosses in a deus ex machina second pill bottle and demonizes Margaret, absolving Dixon of any small guilt he had about the situation and leaving him to openly chase his pretty girl.
LOL, what an unstable biatch that Margaret is!!!!
This is one of those books I've been meaning to read for years.
The blurb I read ("funniest book of the 20th century", seemed hard to live up to.
Not the funniest book of the 20th century, maybe A Confederacy of Dunces or P.
But I did find him funny and, by the end of the book, I did hope things would work out for him.A lot of the humor is in the nastiness of the people and their interactions.
People who are trying to be mean to others ending up looking like fools.
I found some scenes really readable and quick to get to, but others I felt really dragged on a bit.The action seemed to slow in parts because so much of this book is part of Jim's internal dialogue, so after his long, sprawling inner rants, the narrator sort of zooms out, and you're in the exact same place as where you left off?
I found it readable at the time but I feel like my tastes have changed quite a bit, and I'm not in such a rush to pick up Amis' books.
Sometimes I come upon a 'classic' like this...read it...and then question everything I thought I valued in good literature. Maybe it's me? Is it my taste and literary palate that sucks? I couldn't help but to constantly compare it to works by Wodehouse, and it came up lacking in every way. The worst was probably when a female character went into 'hysterics' because Jim is an asshole. The solution? Another dude comes into the room and slaps her multiple times across the face then makes her drink scotch. She is then thanks them both profusely for smacking her. *sigh*
Jim Dixon is a testament to God's grace on this earth: he is genuinely a horrible man in nearly every respect and yet, call it grace or luck, he plays well with random chance and it generates a few good laughs.
Lucky Jim is completely unworthy of all the grace which seems to come his way.
Amis wants you to see Jim as an absurd figure, which as a comic anti-hero he certainly is and serves as an early archetype in the modern novel of many absurd and bewildered men who followed Jim later well into the PoMo movement after World War II.
Lucky for Jim that grace is not earned because his behavior seems so unworthy of it.
Διασκεδαστική κωμωδία με θέμα τις περιπέτειες ενός νέου φιλόλογου σε Αγγλικό πανεπιστήμιο, την κόντρα του με τον μποέμ γιό του πρύτανη και την προσπάθεια του να κερδίσει την αγάπη μιας νεαρής κοπέλας. Πολύ ευχάριστο άνετο ανάγνωσμα με έυστοχο, έξυπνο χιούμορ, μικρή δόση ρομαντισμού και γενικά ότι πρέπει για χαλάρωση. Μείον ένα αστεράκι για την μέτρια μετάφραση.
I tend to be very unfair to comic (humorous) novels, I have this unreasonable demand that every page makes me laugh.
The only character the reader gets to know very well is Jim. An important aspect of the book’s humour is the satire of academic life from the faculty’s point of view, but I have too little knowledge or experience of such a life to appreciate this side of it.Anyway, I cannot think of much to say about this book, it worth reading if you like comic novels where the laughs come mainly from witticisms rather than slapsticks (though there is a bit of that too).
Delightful as James Dixon's rants are, they get old pretty soon (especially since he only ever rants about how much he hates his job and how much better he is than everybody else) and nothing else happens in the novel.
The only explanation I can come up with is that, essentially, Kingsley Amis wrote the whole novel to get back at his and Larkin's bosses/colleagues from when they worked as lecturers so the happy ending for his character is nothing more than a self-congratulatory fantasy.
Didn't like this -- droll, not funny. I didn't like Amis' prose, and found the narrative dull and trite. Besides, I don't like 'comedy' (as a genre). Margaret Peel, of course, is Monica Margaret Beale Jones, and these nasty descriptions were fed to Amis by Jones' common-law partner of 30-years, Philip Larkin. Martin Amis has some amusing comments on her and Larkin.
