https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/421549.Certain_Girls
You know, those books that are light and fluffy reads and that are perfect to read in-between serious books?
That's what describes Jennifer Weiner's books.Now, "Certain Girls" is a sequel to Weiner's hit novel "Good in Bed".
The first type are those certain sequels that are great.
The second type are those that don't really make much of a difference to the original novel.
"Certain Girls", unfortunately, falls under the third category.I loved "Good In Bed".
But the ending was majorly depressing and completely unnecessary.So, if you loved "Good In Bed", do not read "Certain Girls".
In Her Shoes is another highly popular Weiner novel.) Good in Bed is the story of feisty Cannie Shapiro and her journey through weight issues, boyfriend problems, father/daughter issues, dealing with her lesbian mother and single parenting.
Cannie is now happily married to a doctor, she is a successful author and very proud mother to her (almost) teenage daughter, Joy. Her problems start about the same time she begins planning Joy's bat mitzvah party and her husband, Dr. Peter K., decides he wants to have a baby.

I read Good in Bed last week in preperation for Certain Girls and now being pregnant and married, the book had even more of an impact.
Certain Girls was wonderful.
I flew through it in record time up until a twist three quarters of the way through that left me sobbing (hey, I'm pregnant and emotional) and SPOILER ALERT!
There were certain parts that I read that left me with a physical ache in my chest, because they were so familiar- they were fights I had heard a thousand times.
I actually did not finish this book.
I will read the last couple of chapters to see how it ends.
Even if it is a book that I like, I can read the end and then go back and finish it.I have read other Jennifer Weiner books and really liked them, but I cant recommend this one.Okay I tried to read the last few chapters.
I put the book down and didnt even want to look at it again.
You see, I went through that same event two years ago and didnt want to read aobut someone else going through it.
"Good in Bed" was such a toothsome piece of chick lit that I was very much looking forward to reading more about Cannie.
Folks were spouting them who had no right - yes, we know this is one of Cannie's charms, but most folks aren't so clever with a bon mot, and so this novel often had a movie feel to it.
Fans of Good in Bed should read this, but they should set their expectations at a modest level.
The novel Certain Girls continues the story of Cannie Shapiro, who we first met a decade ago in Good In Bed. Cannie is now married to Peter and is the over-protective mother of thirteen-year-old Joy. The novel is alternatively narrated by Cannie and Joy. I found this confusing because it isn't clear who is narrating the chapter until you get a few paragraphs into it.
The plot was predictable but the story was still enjoyable.
Although, this book isn't as good as Good In Bed. I hated the ending.
It seemed cruel and horrible to bring Cannie back and take away her happy ending like that.
The first Jennifer book I read was "In Her Shoes".
Again, I don't have kids so it was really interesting to read the stories of four completely different women and how they handled becoming mothers.
But then I read Good in Bed and by this time I was really tired of reading the whining that all of Jennifer's fat chick character do about their fatness.
Five books of reading about women complaining about their weight.
I enjoyed reading about Joy, the daughter - when she wasn't complaining about her mom's weight.
See Jen here's the thing...
I was really enjoying this book.
I'm fine." So I was really quite delighted with the first part of the book.
But sure enough you picked it back up and moved it right along.
By the way, thanks for the heads up I will NEVER leave a credit card unattended (or with an available balance!!) in case my daughter decides it's time to take up traveling!
(Let's be honest I'm a tad compulsive about finishing books so it was going to happen) of course I did.
It's lazy and a terrible shame that the author did what she did, the conclusion adds nothing to the story and drags the events out for "dramatic effect." If it were a movie, the audience would say a collective, "oh come on." What I felt was a C- book used an F ending.To be sure: skip the ending.
BUT - I would recommend not reading the book at all.
The story flip-flops point of view between two protagonists: the mother and the teenage daughter.
The daughter's point of view is so rude and disrespectful that I wonder what the author thinks of teenagers in general.
“Good in Bed” is one of my Top Ten Favorite Books of All Time.
It’s funny, it’s all about various relationships and there are even lesbians in it.
“Certain Girls” takes place 13 years after the end of “Good in Bed.” Cannie is married to Dr. K and Joy is in middle school, preparing for her bat mitzvah.
We find out in flashbacks how they came to be here: how Cannie wrote her book, how she married, etc.
Cannie wrote a book right when Joy was about a year old and it became a best seller.
We met Cannie in  Good In Bed, where Cannie (like author Weiner) lives in Philadelphia.
This book picked up twelve years after where GiB left off.Joy is preparing for her bat mitzvah, and Cannie is figuring out how to navigate being a wife, a mother of an adolescent, and a good Jewish mother all at once.
The last she needs is for Joy to read the semi-autobiographical book Cannie wrote right after Joy's birth detailing the circumstances of Joy's conception and the relationship between her birth parents.Weiner's narration alternates between Cannie's voice and Joy's voice.
I generally raced through her chapters and then luxuriated in Cannie's chapters.And I was not at all prepared for the punch at the end.
I, of course, loved this book because I think I would love anything Jennifer Weiner writes.
I am a little surprised that people disliked the book because of the overwhelmingly sad occurance at the end of the book.
The reason her books touch so many of us profoundly is because she writes about things that many of us endure, but aren't necessarily socially acceptable to discuss.
I thought that was a little out of character, but considering where she came from, it makes sense.
I hope she writes one a year for the rest of my life!
This may be my favorite Jennifer Weiner book so far. So many likable, well-rounded characters. Jennifer Weiner has a gift for using wit in a way that deepens and reveals a character's sensitive side. The bittersweet ending caught me by surprise. Keep the tissues handy.
Got this from the library and really enjoyed it. It's where Cannie Shapiro from Good in Bed left off plus another 12 years later. Mother/daughter story told from each point of view in alternating chapters. Break out your tissues towards the end.
3.5 starsI wish I could have given this book a higher rating but I found myself extremely frustrated with both Cannie and Joy. Joy should have been slapped and grounded somewhere around page 25.Cannie needed someone (Samantha!) to grab her by the shoulders and shake her into reality.What happened to my strong heroine of "Good in Bed"?Where did the neurotic, coddling-her-child-too-much, insecure woman of "Certain Girls" come from?
We get some answers toward the middle of the book but it still didn't feel like enough reason to explain the "Cannie-180".The only time she found her strength and more of herself was when Peter was around to ground her.
I have this feeling that I like Jennifer Weiner. Not necessarily her books, but her. And so I keep reading her books, and sort of enjoy them, and am always sort of disappointed. She has promise on which she doesn't completely deliver. Her plots are fairly conventional. I nearly gave up reading this, as I began to find the format (switching chapter between and mother and a really annoying daughter) to be tedious. For some reason I persevered and found that it improved. And yet... still, I apparently want to be her friend.
Not as strong as Good in Bed. Weiner' s strength is creating characters the reader relates to and this book is no different. Told in alternating chapters, the voices are strong and the characters likable.
I read Good in Bed and Certain Girls back to back. I loved them both! Cannie’s story made me laugh....ripped my heart out....and then made me laugh again. 💗 I loved everything about it!
I mean Dr. K was my dream guy smart, sexy, and determined which is what it takes to win a girl's heart.
Also it's sooo slow and i have the hardest time reading it because now i'm paranoid that every family member is self conscience about my weight and my boobs.
UM newsflash: If you think about most of people around us are accidents, kids aren't usually planned.
And just because you weren't planned doesn't mean your parents don't love.
I know these are fictional charecters that were created by an author who's books I personally love, this book was a miss.
But I found myself extremely interested in the characters, especially the mother, so the book turned out to be decently rewarding, for what it was.The two of them are always super-polite to each other.
I suppose it could be worse.
Last year Tara Carnahan's mother called her father a rat bastard during parent/teacher conferences, then threw her cell phone at his head, which was a double offense because at the Philadelphia Academy we're supposed to use respectful language at all times, and cell phones aren't allowed.(and yes, Philadelphia, a pleasant surprise - I recognized some of the street names and landmarks.)
Eh. The changes in point of view sometimes caught me off guard and I had to back track a few sentences to figure out if I was reading from Cannie or Joy's point of view.
The back story got confusing - Aunt Elle changed her name and at certain points she was Elle and in others she was Lucy, her given name.
I felt that the book wrapped up Cannie and Joy's relationship too well, complete with the 'parent knows best' ending.
And sure, it brought the story full circle, Cannie is going to raise another baby without its father, but why can't that baby just have its daddy?
While sorting through her books for her, I found this again and decided to give it a go.
It continues the story of full woman sized Cannie, whom I met in Good in Bed. Interesting examination of women on the cusp of milestones: motherhood, bat mitzpha, job changes etc.
It had some moments that were very hard to me to read in my current situation with my own mom (who is dying from cancer).
But the book was good.
And I want to read the StarGirl series Cannie penned anonymously.
I'm glad that Weiner wrote a follow-up novel with Cannie Shapiro as the protagonist.
I'm not sure how much I liked the structure of the novel - that every other chapter was written from the perspective of her teenage daughter - but I think that it works for the story as a whole.
Teenagers being how they are, you'd never get half of the story if you didn't hear it directly from Joy.There is a very big surprise towards the end that I didn't see coming - it drastically changes how the novel ends - it works in terms of dramatic structure.

I loved loved this book right up until the last 75 pages or so.
I wasn't expecting the twist in the story, so it hit me like a mac truck one night when I was casually reading before I fell asleep.
I cried my eyes out into my boyfriends hair as he slept; tossed and turned all night.
Overall, yes, another great book from Jennifer.
You'll want to at least read Good In Bed before this one as the story picks up Cannie's story some years after from where GIB left off.
ok this was going to be a three until the last section made it a four...i wish the first 2/3 had been dramatically shorter and the last dramatically longer!chick lit crossed with a YA novel. you get the mothers perspective and the teenage daughters perspective. the unending descriptions of ridiculous bar mitzvahs was super annoying along with the CONSTANT self deprecation from the mother...we get it...youre fat and you think youre ugly...dont tell us about it again!
I've always enjoyed Jennifer Weiner's books, but it has been awhile since I have read one.
"Good In Bed" was the first book I read by her and it was around 2002, but it was easy to catch up with Cannie again.
Throughout the story there are friends and family bar and bat mitzvahs.
By the time Joy's bat mitzvah arrives, she has truly become an adult through what she has had to experience in her life.
I have many of Weiner's other books still on my shelf to read.
мне показалось, послабее первой части (которую я читала год назад тоже в отпуске). хотя своя драма тоже есть
She finds herself in awkward situations where she knows what she is doing is wrong, but she can’t help herself – although to watch her try and redeem herself is so very heartwarming.One of the things Joy begins to deal with is the fact that her mother wrote a book, Big Girls Don’t Cry, around the time that Joy was born.
