https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14031.Palm_of_the_Hand_Stories
a symmetrical simplicity denoting the depths of human complexity.He understood that human beings cannot make other human beings unhappy, he murmurs, as I gaze up at the bewildered night sky.the ephemeral life of time.the beating of a hummingbird's wings.a world contained in a vase filled with peonies.death throes under the fading light of dusk.fragments of a dream that never belonged to this place.the atmospheric silence of an afternoon wrapped in autumnal colors.a bowl being dashed against a rock; the sound of somebody's heart breaking.'My novel has found a beautiful soul.
Uncertainty and fear of a new world permeated through the bamboo-leafs sending worrisome shivers through Akiko’s heart wondering whether her marriage was just an act of pity; a war-time sentimentality towards the cripple.
Ask the blind man and the girl standing on the threshold of love and fate.
The birds flew to a sunny place where even though the novelty of the face like the beauty of first love diminishes as time passes by; its memories are solidified into the heart blinded by the ugliness of time.“Thank you.
Meaning: my list can change!) A Sunny Place The Grasshopper and the Bell Cricket Canaries Harbor Town Photograph The White Flower Glass The Sliding Rock Thank You The Silverberry Thief Summer Shoes The Maiden's Prayers One Person's Happiness There is a God Goldfish on the Roof The Young Lady of Suruga A Smile Outside the Night Stall The Blind Man and the Girl Household The Man Who Did Not Smile Samurai Descendent The Rooster and the Dancing Girl The Bound Husband Sleeping Habit Umbrella Death Mask Faces A Pet Dog's Safe Birthing The Silver Fifty-Sen Pieces Bamboo-leaf Boats Gleanings from Snow Country I am going to write a bit about some of my favorite stories.
A very strange book.
Two-thirds or more of these very tiny stories (like Haiku) were written between 1923 and 1935.
We have heard of "occasional" writings; perhaps these need to be called "momentary" writings....A collection of this sort will likely be, perhaps inevitably, uneven.
Yet this collection certainly contain some, quite a few Kawabata masterpieces.
I preferred the earlier stories, those from the early 20's, and some of the Postwar stories, such as "The Silver Fifty-Sen Pieces".I've become a great admirerer of Kawabata.Interestingly, Sorrentino's A Strange Commonplace and Human Abyss is, formally, a modernist (and certainly grittier) version of palm-of-the-hand writing.
اسلوب كاواباتا غريب، تجربتي الاولى معه جائت بطريقة مفاجئة وعن طريق الصدفة.نوعية القصص، في الغالب باهتة بعض الشيء، لم اقع في حب هذا الكاتب ولا حتى قصصه، ربما ستكون "الجميلات النائمات" فرصة اخرى .الغلاف جميل :)
Tiny stories that are more like poems.I approached this book in the wrong way.
Kawabata crafts beautiful images that can have a profound effect on you but when you pile image upon image they lose all appeal and the effect is dulled.
I knew this and yet I kept on reading until my brain couldn't hold any more imagery, kind of like an addiction I suppose.This is the kind of work you can return to many times and pick a story at random, briefly feeling the effects on your mind and soul and then putting it back on the shelf.
حسناً..
كنت أرغب بمنحها نجمتين على الأقل لبراعة تصوير ملامح البيئة اليابانية القديمة وكيف يجعل القارئ يرى ويستشعر أجواء هذه البيئة ويلمسها بطبيعتها وطقوسها حية وحقيقية..لكن عندما يتصاعد احباطي من البداية للنهاية وأنا أقرأ قصة تلو قصة دون أن أجد أي معنى لأي منها!!
باستثناء البعض كانت غالبية القصص أشبه بالهذيان حتى أنني عدة مرات نمت بسببها..
هذا جعلني أقيمها بنجمة..ليس غموض ولا رمزية..
بل ربما هناك حاسة سابعة يجب أن يمتلكها الانسان حتى يستطيع أن يقرأ أمثال هذا اللون من الأدب..
أستطيع أن أستوعب أن يكون كل نص من هذه النصوص موجوداً ضمن رواية لكن لا أفهم دوره كقصة..
Often the stories refer to dreams, and have themselves a dreamy quality, and they left me with the uneasiness of eavesdropping on people’s very inner feelings: the young sister who loves her older sister’s blind lover; the widow that loved his mistress only through the living actions of his now dead wife; or the anxiety of a crippled girl waiting to hear if her fiancé would return from the war.
The lover, the mother, the young/older sister, the crippled – all are aspects of me.It is not a book that will be loved by all, and it may require a certain mood from the reader, but I highly recommend it.
I wanted to love this book.
Over the years, I've heard so many great things about these short-short stories, but I could never really quite get into them even though I read the entire collection.
Reminded me of looking at the gorgeous window displays at Tiffany--things of beauty that I couldn't quite touch, unable to reach them emotionally or otherwise understand what was going on or why.
Maybe I shouldn't have read them all in a row over the stretch of a few days.
I feel as if I was just the wrong reader for this book.
Which is why I'm not rating it and just marking it as read.
Another annotation from my MFA/Creative Writing work at Goddard this semester:Talismans Inside Koans Masquerading as Fairy Tales: Yasunari Kawabata’s Palm-of-the-Hand Stories The toss of a silver coin determines whom a boy should marry, but a sparrow shows the boy that in his next life he will marry a sparrow.
And delve deeper, making the experience more profound than any simple fairy tale.Take, for example, "The Neighbors." In this story, Kawabata gives great emphasis to two talismans: the necklace of beads given to Yukiko by her father and the pair of kites being fed by hand by the deaf, old couple living in a separate wing of the house into which Yukiko and her husband have just moved.

Due to the success of two of my writing teachers (Pete Rock and Bruce Holland Rogers), I wanted to study short-shorts/flash fiction and this was a good place to begin.
Although "Canaries" is probably the most anthologized of Kawabata's stories, I found a other treasures in this tome.
So many of these stories have infidelty and unhappiness as their themes, I had to keep checking the dates to remind myself many of these were written in the 1920s.
"Palm-of-the-Hand" is worth the read, even if you're not contemplating writing flash fiction.
I'm not sure how to characterize this. I know I have this tagged 'short-stories', but it's something much different. Profound and thought-provoking little parables, which shift imperceptibly and subtly over the course of Kawabata's long illustrious life.
Cargarlo en el bolso era estar abierto a la posibilidad de disfrutar, cuando se me antojase, del dulce descanso y la magia de una siesta (según Borges, uno de los pocos placeres que nos quedan).Disfruté mucho las lecturas.
Quizás lo realmente mágico en todo esto sea esa universalidad que nos enfrenta a nosotros mismos en la raíz de toda expresión artística.La organización cronológica de los relatos en la antología permite una aproximación al universo del autor con todo su paquete de preocupaciones extraliterarias.
Εδω δε θα πω τίποτα...Τιποτα απολυτως γιατι θα χαλασω τα παντα...Το βιβλιο, το συγγραφεα, την πατριδ
What a nice surprise, I didn't know Hiroshi Shimizu's 1936 movie "Mr. Thank You" was based off a Kawabata short story. I know Kawabata also worked on A Page of Madness so I'm going to assume "The Man Who Did Not Smile" is related to that experience, seeing as it's about a writer on a movie set, Noh masks, a mental hospital, etc.
Where Davis's stories are pure practices in economy, Kawabata's stories are more about the distillation of complicated interpersonal stories into beautiful tableaux, sometimes with a distracting predilection for the dreamlike.Notes:Kawabata, as opposed to Lydia Davis, gives his short short stories a haze of dreaminess with deft, artful, but inexact images, whereas Davis is methodically exact and uncompromising.
Kawabata's stories, even though they take place amidst horrors unimaginable to many of his readers - the air raids of WWII - are cozy as British mysteries, as everything is seen through the lens of pure aesthetics.
Người đọc dễ rơi vào cảm giác không hiểu mình vừa đọc gì, tự hỏi cuốn sách đã thật sự kết thúc hay chưa, và tác giả định nói lên điều gì qua câu chuyện.
Vậy nên những cảm giác kể trên gặp phải khi đọc truyện dài của Kawabata hoàn toàn có thể nhân lên gấp bội khi đọc tập truyện ngắn trong lòng bàn tay này (Palm-of-the -hand stories - ở Việt Nam có dịch giả Hoàng Long và Nguyễn Nam Trân dịch khoảng hai mươi truyện trong tác phẩm này).Một cuốn sách như thế này có lẽ không nên đọc nhanh.
it's been 4 years or so since I read these stories but the way I felt still glows in me.
This is not to say I can remember any details of the stories themselves..
Of being led slowly through small but intricate (and glowing also) little gardens and baths.
That all glows in me.
It's a book of glowing flesh.
why am I such an idiot?) said, in an on-line interview, that this was a book she was reading and digging.I just read Kawabata's "Beauty and Sadness." I was engrossed.
But I think the Palm-of-the-Hand Stories are better.
Son muchísimos relatos cortos y algunos no me han acabado de gustar, pero otros me han impresionado muchísimo. Kawabata no tiene muchos altibajos, aunque sí puede verse una tendencia a ciertos temas a proliferar según la época en la que escribió los cuentos (como están ordenados cronológicamente, eso se ve claramente).
A set of poingnant, breif, sad gems that spans fifty years of Kawabata's career, with almost all the stories between two to five pages. They're very silent, still stories but deeply insightful. I won't claim there were no duds, but the mood of the collection as a whole is incredible.
It’s said the essence of Kawabata’s writing can be found in these brief episodes in Japanese lives more so than in his novels, but in truth they often feel like fragments of larger stories that Kawabata may have discarded then stripped down to their absolute minimum.
It’s interesting to read short stories composed differently from the way we are used to experiencing them, though the reader may still be left with a small sense of dissatisfaction with many, although those written nearer the end of Kawabata’s career are rounded off with more depth: best of all is the brief, impressive ghost story ‘Immortality’, the imaginative flourish of ‘Snow’, and ‘Gleanings from Snow Country’, loosely connected to his famous novel Snow Country.
Acabei passando mais de um mês na companhia desse livro, que reúne centenas de histórias curtas do vencedor do Nobel, do início ao fim da sua carreira.
Nesse meio tempo acabei lendo também duas coletâneas de contos do Akutagawa, e não tem como não comparar os dois escritores, que eram amigos.
Gostei dos contos do começo; que eram mais estranhos, e do fim do fim, por serem mais bonitos, mas no geral não gostei tanto quanto esperava.
De contista japonês fico mesmo com o Akutagawa, que infelizmente encerrou sua brilhante carreira aos 30 e poucos anos, cometendo suicídio.
Curiosamente, o Kawabata acabou seguindo o mesmo caminho, poucos anos depois de ganhar o Nobel.
"Entendió que su creencia de haberla hecho infeliz era un error. Entendió que se había equivocado al evaluar su propia situación. Entendió que los seres humanos no pueden hacer infelices a otros seres humanos. Entendió también que había sido un error pedirle perdón. Entendió que era presuntuoso por parte de alguien que había mejorado siendo injusto con otro pedir perdón al que había quedado abatido por el agravio. Entendió que los seres humanos no pueden perjudicar a otros seres humanos.Mientras sentía que ese murmullo lo transportaba, oyó el sonido del arroyo que corría armonioso por la montaña."
For the right person, I think this collection of short-short fiction by Kawabata might be very stimulating, but I found it a chore to keep going, and finally decided either it's not for me, or it's not the right time for me.
At first, I thought maybe these stories might have a Zen koan kind of effect (and they might, to some people), but I don't think my mind is open to this delivery.
It may also very well be that my mind is not disciplined for this kind of writing.
Perhaps after reading some of Kawabata's longer works, I might be more open to those that are shorter.
Like a small stone dropped into a pond, these minute but potent stories send out ripples long after they've been read. Some of the stories I read over and over are "Snow," "Up in the Tree," "Immortality," "Yuriko,"
One of the best short story collections I've encountered....
In fact it is going straight into my top five list.
Achingly beautiful stories.
Spanning a period of fifty years, the seventy stories in this book were written during a series of very turbulent times.
As the book progresses, more modern attitudes creep in.
The final story is the longest and is actually a condensed version of the opening of his novel Snow Country, a book I read last year.
This condensed version is exquisite.Many of these stories will remain with me forever, I suspect...
These are ticklish teases that hardly merit the name "stories".
Kawabata excels at the simple and pinprick nuance, so naturally, and as he even said so, these little slices of narratives exemplify what makes him stand out from much of the blather of 20th century fiction.Concise and often gaspworthy, figmental and fragmental in much the same way that Nabokov could be and that Calvino tries to be, the stories are almost impossible to lump together.
Impossible and sublime all at once!
I'm not sure what to say, so let me be brief.
I'm enthralled with Yasunari Kawabata's form, and these short stories do linger, though not for traditional narrative reasons.
I feel as if someone has loosed a wild bird inside my skull and its panic has sent all the artisan glasswork crashing to the stone floor.Yasunari Kawabata gifts the reader much to think about.— "Since he was blind, I often stared fixedly at him." —This quote is a pretty good representation of how I felt after reading each story.
Just let that sink in a while.
Ini kumcer yg gak mudah dibaca, meski kisah2nya singkat, tp makna mendalam yg ditimbulkannya meresap diam2, perlahan, dan bertahan. Tentang sepi2 hati. Yang lama baru menghilang. Beberapa cerita harus kubaca berulang2 untuk mengerti, karena inti rasanya dicurahkan secara samar2, dibalut ke(tidak)sederhanaan ala jepun klasik. Ah...
