https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/260996.The_Berenstains_B_Book
Granddaughter- just learning to read- loved it.
A book reminiscent of the Dr. Seuss tongue twisters!I love this book. My kids love to hear me read it as fast as I can. Very easy read for new readers too! The actual book we have is my book from when I was a child (um-hm the 1970's) but I was reintroduced to this particular book when my son was in Speech Therapy. This gave us B words to practice the Bah sound.Love the Berenstains!
It's an automatic 5 stars for books from childhood, folks.
No exceptions.
In retrospect, these books seem as a capitalist marketing scam to me.
Devoting an entire book to the letter 'B'.
This means that if you want your kid to be well-rounded in the ways of the Englische alphabet, you have to get (translate: buy) 25 more books.
Alas, mom could only afford this one book of 'B' words.
My bungles left me blue and my behaviour became bad.
My bocabulary began to sound Hispanic when I pronounced the letter 'V' as a 'B'.
I was a bery bad boy.
A wonderful book to introduce the letter B and all the silly and common words you can make starting with "B".
A fun book filled with B's. The story grows so absurd you can't help but laugh. My family can still quote this book 20+ years later, and we still love it.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
The beautiful baboon ballerina is of course the favorite.
Fun and wacky book! I loved it as a kid and it still tickles me as an adult. No one should "B" without it!
Ever since I was a little girl, I've loved this book.
It is however, a better "Read Aloud" book rather than a book a child should try to read on their own.
Some of the words are a little tougher for younger kids.
Yet still, the alliteration throughout this entire book is amazing!
Every word in the book begins with the letter "B." The whole book is like a long tongue twister.
Read it, even if you've read it before.
I read it for the first time in probably 20 years, I still love it.
I love books like this. It seems like they're not going to make any sense, but somehow they do. They push you along to get you to read faster and you end up getting tongue tied. They might not be the greatest in literature, but they are fun.
This book is great for those who are just starting to read. Throughout the book they use the same words and add two or three more to the next page. Helping student become fluent with these few words.
A family favorite with lines such as "Brother Bob's baseball bus" and many more "b" words. We read this to our daughters when they were young. We bought a copy for our grandkids. A fun book and a quick read!
This reminds me of the Dr. Seuss "flow" in his books. The build up of 'B' words are great for children just learning to read. The illustrations are great.
Hilarious. My toddler always enjoys this one - funny pictures to go along with the big bounding ballad beginning with all things B!
Cute little book about the letter B with fun pictures.
This is meant for early readers, but the amount of repetition makes this book not fun for my 4 year old. By the time we neared the end, he was very annoyed.
My son loves this book so much I have memorized it and quote it to him when ever he wants he laughs at mommy getting tongue tied lol
I remember reading this in nursery :-)
Had many fun nights when I was a kid having adults read this. I still love this book. It's a blast watching and listening to an adult try to read it without missing a word and without cracking up.
Thought I hid this one too, but my kid found it.
Fun to read
Big Brown Bear." The author continues to do so for other animals, naming specific adjectives about themseleves.
Then, as the story goes on all of the silly animals get into a bit of a jam because they got caught up in all of their fun!
She included main adjectives of the animals in big bolded words, such as big and brown, in order to help young readers be able to establish those things.
By the end of the book there are many tongue twisters because the author continued a line on and throughout the story it just built up, which is such a fun way to keep children engaged.
For the most part, he would lose interest after a page or two, but a few he listened to right until the end.
I did lose interest after about the fourth page, but he was loving all those Bs, so I read it to the end.
I couldn't really tell you what specifically my three-year-old liked about the book, but he did really enjoy it.The illustrations feature the funnel-snouted animals of the Berenstains -- cute and colorful, but not easily recognizable, and, therefore not my favorite style.
Again, my little boy liked all the silly images and colors, even if he didn't believe me that the bear was supposed to be a bear.
This story was published in 1971 by Random House Publishing and is one of the Bright and Early series.
It is a story comprised completely of words that start with the letter B (for the exception of a couple "ands" and a "and that's what").
The take home message from this book is that it's not only possible but it's fun to tell stories that involve words that focus on one beginning letter.
I can see how reading this book might encourage a reader to try to come up with their own story that started with just one letter.
I have always loved the various Berenstain books!
I first encountered this book a year ago when I was working in a Kindergarten classroom.
When I saw that it was a Berenstain book I could not resist, but once I started reading it was a lot of fun trying to spit out a repetitive story in which all of the characters and the things they encounter start with the letter B.
So when I found a copy at a used book store, I just had to buy it!
This is a perfect book for learning the phonemes for the letter B.
The book uses a repetitive sequence that builds upon its self as you continue to read.
Students will love to listen as much as you will love to try reading it correctly.
The book is a tongue twister that could be used to ensure students read each word of the story.
I would use this in a preschool or kindergarten classroom when students are learning to identify letters and the sounds they make.
I believe there is a whole series of the Berenstains' letter books.
Although I didn't care for the Berenstain style of drawings, I got a kick out of the contents of this book, and it only took a few short minutes, while reading this to my younger siblings, to memorize it, which I still remember (practically verbatim) to this day, 40-ish years later.Here it is, minus the repetition of particular phrases:"Big Brown Bear, Blue Bull, Beautiful Baboon, blowing bubbles, biking backward, bump Black Bug's banana boxes, and Billy Bunny's bread basket, and that's what burst Baby Bird's balloon."
This is a fast-paced, fun little add on counting book with adventure and surprises enough to keep the attention of little ones. A favorite of our family - a great book when children are learning the look and the sound of the letter B.It is so funny to see my children discovering anew the books I love reading in my early childhood. It is amusing that they often think they are the first to discover the things they love: whether it is books or songs or food. I'm sure we were once the same way.
You know what is great about this book?It's a pain in the butt to read but it sure is fun to yell, once you've got the whole thing memorized.Big brown bear, Blue bull, BEEEYOOOTIFUL baboon biking backward, blowing bubbles...(you really have to hyper-flourish the word "beautiful" because, well, why wouldn't you?)If you have super annoying children who like to torture you with stories they know by heart, keep this far away from them.
A book about the letter "b". It wasn't amazing from an adult's perspective, but I'm sure a child will love it. It's colorful and having all of those "b" words would be helpful for kindergarten. After the first time reading it, however; I don't think the kids will want to read it over and over again, but you never know. The pictures were not my favorite pictures either. They had a vintage feel to them. On the whole, it was just okay. Especially since it was just about one letter.
I loved this book. Along with Dr. Seuss' "500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins" and "Hand Hand Fingers Thumb" these are the holy trinity of beloved childhood books from my youth.For kids learning to read this book's focus on the letter B and words that start with it make for a simple and fun way to start sounding words out.
