https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10065.Wayside_School_Is_Falling_Down
Does anyone else remember that heavenly smell of newsprint in school when you fill out your order form for your book club? And your moms neatly signed check in your chubby fist, paper clipped to your book mark sized list ready to turn in. *batts eyes* And the excitement when you see piles and piles of books rubber banded together knowing your about to get your hands on your own stack. Sorry, got lost in a moment.
If only all schools could be as much fun as this one. One of my favorite children's books.
I recently decided to read one chapter of it each night to my 6 year old son.
I loved the sounds of his giggles and howling laughter as I read the stories that made me laugh so hard I couldn't breathe as a child.
I was afraid that he wouldn't love the stories as much as I had as a child.
I was also afraid that I wouldn't find the stories as entertaining this time around.
The delightful little children on the top floor of this silly school still put me in stitches and kept my son's usually waivering attention.
This was one of my favorite books in elementary, and it stands the test of the re-read!
I wasn't as familiar with the characters as I used to be, but that's not much of a surprise.
Before, I would have been able to offer a brief character synopsis as well as the name of the love interest of any child you mentioned.
Now, not so much, but the book is still charming and delightful.
Is it insane of me that I am still a little miffed that Miss Jewls would always have Todd put his name on the board under Discipline and send him home on the kindergarten bus every day when he was often the only one behaving properly?
Poor Todd.
He normally will tell me about books he's read, but since this was the first one he wanted me to read, I thought I'd give it a try.
Here's one we shared:Mrs. Jewls (the nicest teacher at Wayside School) is talking about how our clothes aren't what makes us important or great.
When Stephen's tie ripped in half, he says..."'Now I'm not great and important anymore.' 'Yes you are, Stephen.' said Mrs. Jewls.
'You're just as great and important as you ever were.''I am?' Stephen asked.'Certainly,' said Mrs. Jewls.
It's what's underneath that counts.''Underneath?' asked Stephen.'Yes,' said Mrs. Jewls.
'If you want to be great and important, you have to wear expensive underpants.'"
wayside school is currently full of cows
I loved them as a kid, but I'm pulling so much more out of them now as an adult - specifically, as a teacher and a parent.My favorite stories were "Freedom" and the 19 chapters.
I appreciate them more now that I've experienced a little more of what life has to offer.There is no better example of Schrodinger's Cat played out in literature than in Miss Zarves from the 19th story of Wayside School.Well, I've got the girls up here, and they're ready to review the book.
Not a real one.Dad: Are you guys ready to start Wayside School Gets a Little Stranger?ALL: YEEEEEAAAAAAAHHHHH!!!!Gwen: I want to read There's A Boy in the Girl's Bathroom.
Extremely clever book. My son wanted to read it badly. Thank you, Mr. Sachar.I noticed Glee used one of the same jokes. I watching the show (Season three, Episode two) and heard the joke, "What is the capitol of Ohio?" "O." Then later that same day I read the same joke in the book (which is at least twenty years older than the TV show, of course.) LOLAnyway, definitely recommend this, but it is second in the series, so read the first one first.
So, I remember LOVING this as a kid, and listening to it on audio on repeat. Rereading it, though, some chapters are just plain ODD.
New York: Avon Books.0380731509Continuing with the Wayside Series, what’s interesting with the second book is that, while the majority of chapters are still character sketches, there is more overlap and continuation of conflicts among the chapters.
With his writing, I feel like he has spent more time as a teacher.Activities to do with the book:The entire series is great for dramatization or having students write their own chapters or stories in response.An unexpected lesson of these books is best for teachers.
Teachers can take away views of teaching and discipline from the child’s perspective, which is always a wonderful view to keep in mind.Favorite Quotes:“You don’t hate stories, Dana,” Mrs. Jewls told her.
I read it in fifth grade on the last day of school. I was really bored when I picked it up. I thought to myself "Sounds good…" And it was! It's a fun read for grades 2-5!
Read this book to my 2nd grader and we about laughed ourselves silly!
A librarian at the school book fair recommended this to me, in 3rd grade. Great recommendation! This book is full of fun stories that never got old, no matter how many times I read them.
How did I not know there was an entire series of Wayside??? I only ever knew about the first 2 books. 😮😩
Even reading this book as an adult I laughed out loud on almost every page, but as readers progress through the chapters they slowly realize that Sachar weaves clever plots and connections between the tales.All three Wayside School books are around 4th grade reading level, and their short chapters make them very accessible independent reads for students who are just starting to read longer texts on their own.
Wayside School is Falling Down does not help students confront life’s tough times, but it is a clever, brilliantly-written satire of the elementary school experience.
Their silliness is perfect for grabbing young attention spans and are written so that they are mini stories within a larger one.b. The stories are about school related events with something silly thrown in the mix which is really why the reader keeps reading and why they picked up this book in the first place.
I would ask that the students write about a regular topic, such as school, and then add wacky and silly parts to make it funny.
They could write mini stories about an event that really happened and then add in parts that are make-believe in nature to make it funny.
In the next installment of the Wayside School stories, we are introduced to some new characters such as Mr. Kidswatter, the principal, and the new kid, Mark Miller, who’s too shy to tell everyone his name is actually Benjamin Nushmutt.
Orange was the worst, chocolate was the best.The screwball storylines still exist such as Sharie bringing a hobo to school for show-and-tell, Paul’s pigtail fetish getting a little stronger, and a dead rat stopping the schmaltzy I love yous exchanged between Dameon and Mrs. Jewels.
And if you don’t like this book, you can "drop dead, Ketchup Head”.
Each of the stories was a little bit longer than in the first book and they also went even farther along the creativity continuum in terms of using new and intriguing storytelling elements.As with  Sideways Stories from Wayside School, each chapter (with a notable exception) was a self contained story with its own humorous description of some interaction with the students at the school.
Sachar went above and beyond his previous endeavor by taking the strange perceptions of students and faculty at the school even farther than before.I loved the story told in reverse and the Twilight-Zone-esque use of the "19th story." The characters each received added depth and fun new treatment.
"For just a second Allison had understood everything but then she lost it" p 147. Calvin has to decide on a tattoo, where and what, a lifetime committment. "He was sure he had made the right choice. At least he was pretty sure" p 76. (view spoiler)[ A potato above his ankle. (hide spoiler)]"D.J. kobonged his gong. Joy chongoed her bongos. Paul splacked his castanets. Jenny spaghettied her snare drum. Calvin and Bebe wammered their cymbals. And Joe's triangle went ting" p 49. Comic sketches prece
"For just a second Allison had understood everything but then she lost it" p 147.
Calvin has to decide on a tattoo, where and what, a lifetime committment.
"He was sure he had made the right choice.
At least he was pretty sure" p 76.
(view spoiler)[ A potato above his ankle.
(hide spoiler)]"D.J. kobonged his gong.
Joy chongoed her bongos.
Paul splacked his castanets.
Jenny spaghettied her snare drum.
Calvin and Bebe wammered their cymbals.
And Joe's triangle went ting" p 49.
(view spoiler)[ "It was cowed ..
(hide spoiler)]Typo:p 3 "They were her specialty" misses period "specialty."
I don't generally laugh out loud when I read books, but this one had me laughing on several occasions.
I read my falling apart copy of this book that my godmother gave me for my ninth birthday.
It took me back to the days of playing library with my sisters when we were kids.
We'd arrange a bunch of books in the living room for checkout and stamp makeshift cards in the backs of the books with due dates.
This book must have entered circulation pretty quickly as the due date was only a few weeks after I received the book as a present.
A nugget: "Who would like the triangle?" asked Mrs. Jewls.
Joe raised his hand, and Mrs. Jewls gave it to him.
"Why is it called a triangle?" asked Joe.
"I don't know," said Mrs. Jewls.
"No, that can't be it," said Mrs. Jewls.
"Then the tambourine would have to be called a circle." "Maybe it was invented by a person named Joe Triangle," said Rondi.
"That's probably it," said Mrs. Jewls.
"Who would like the glockenspiel?" she asked.
Nobody asked why it was called a glockenspiel.
Mrs. Jewls gave the bells to Stephen.
"Why are they called bells?" he asked.
Not as good as Sideways Stories From Wayside School - some of the stories just seemed too in-your-face, like the one that was written entirely backwards.
But I did enjoy the story of the nineteenth storey and numerous other surreal episodes (like Benjamin Nushmutt being known as Mark Miller or some innocuous name, for most of his time in Wayside School).
What I particularly like about this is how Sachar has obviously made use of his experience in an elementary school to give life to the way the teachers behave in the Wayside School (e.g. Mrs Jewls is determined that the students learn three things every day, like how pickles are made, the capital of England, and 7+4).
one strength of this story is that the kids love to go to school because of their teachers.
i can relate to that because like school because i have good teachers.
i would recommend this book to people who like fantasy and laughing during the story.
a lot of people can relate to that because they don't like their name so they make them another name for them self.
my favorite part of the story was when one of the kids forgot their lunch and had to buy lunch at school, when he tasted it he said it tasted like grape jelly and hot dogs.
If you enjoy action, comedy, and lots of laughs then Wayside School is Falling Down is the book for you.
Wayside School Is Falling Down tells in more detail, of the crazy and kooky things that go on in the school and with the students and teachers as well.
Most of the stories have to do with Mrs.Jewels and her 29 students but don't let that fool you, because you never know what the next story will be about!
One of my favorite stories in this book was the chapter that was written entirely backwards!
And what was especially interesting and funny, was that the girl in the chapter had done everything backwards.
Wayside school is falling down is a book written by Louis Sachar.
The book is about a teacher named Ms.Jewls’s and she has a classroom with 29 student and this book is about all of them.
There is a kid named Todd who got in trouble everyday until he got a magic dog.
Paul witch is another student whose life was saved by another student named Leslie so Leslie’s pigtails.
There’s another student named Ron who dared to try the cafeterias mushrooms surprise and all the other who help turn a day at Wayside School into one madcap adventure after another.

My dream job?
Elementary school librarian.
I'm practicing for it right now by reading all the books my kids bring home from school.
The Wayside School series is so funny.
One chapter had me laughing so hard tears were pouring down my cheeks.
We've been reading them outloud to people too.
Books this funny shouldn't be kept to yourself.
Visitors to our house: beware.
We may sit you down and read a chapter or two.
Second grade and up for independent reading...Caution: Some language is present(if you can call it that).
In one chapter a skinny boy is refered to as "fatso".
This was the book I picked up every single time I walked into my primary school library. Our school never had any books I liked, this is the one that I just read over and over again. I just wish I had bought my own copy as a kid. My brother has his own copy and he too can't seem to put it down.
خودش نه، ترجمه ش.
A very interesting book,the ending is very strange but cute.
