https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11361168-the-letter-killers-club
Stop! Yes, You! Stop! Don’t Read Any Further! No, I’m serious! Like SERIOUS! STOP! I’m not going to repeat! STOP, RIGHT, HERE!Ha, you didn’t listen, did you? Well then, be prepared to sever ties with only ever thing that made your enriching circle of reading, comprehending, reflecting, retrieving and disseminating complete (and) visible to the world :  Words .   Writers, in essence, are professional word tamers; if the words walking down the lines were living creatures, they would surely fear an
A thought or conception, in its quest for creative life, must separate itself from the written word, which traps it like a zoological specimen on the printed page.
They prod the story with their incisive eye, feel its spine in their nimble minds, toss it in diverse scenarios and having arrived at its prime theme, place it in the correct shelf on the neatly stacked conception bookshelves.But categorizing ideas, however, revolutionary, can come under severe contradictions since anything without definitive structure tantamounts to splintered interpretations and sensing this tide taking rather alarming proportions in the club, Zez brings an outsider, our narrator, one fine Saturday and directs him to simply be a part of the proceedings for the next few weeks, albeit keeping his faculties at full throttle.
This shit is so meta-l!
Fans of him will most likely be all about this.
Dreamscape-y, comical, and a smart analysis of creative blockages and the burden of influence, this is an extremely generous 100-ish pager that fits in yer coat pocket.
I read it in one day because my fortune cookie told me to.
Then I told them about experiments in cultivating flowers without light: the result, curiously, is always an exceedingly tall branching plant, but put that gloom-grown specimen next to ordinary plants used to night and day and you will find it fragile, withered, and pale.I’ve read this – an early-mid example of K’s work, written when he was new to Moscow and hadn’t yet sampled the failure that was to be his experience of publishing – twice now, and find it to be immune to the above description, maybe ‘gloom-grown’, but unlike the later work I’ve read (NYRB’s Memories of the Future) not tall, fragile, whithered or pale.
Branching, yes: five stories, which could stand independently, fused to the central conceit of the Letter Killers Club, a Saturday evening ritual conducted by authors dedicated to non-publication, in which they narrate, discuss, improvise and re-contort their conceptions.
In cases of stories with presented as a novel via a narrative frame the two most common cases are:1.
Possibly narrative frame undermines stories altogether.2.
Bits of the stories even cross over between themesleves, which especially astonishes since these range so widely in tone and subject, from greek myth to dystopian future as chilling as Zamyatin's contemoraneous version in We. Still, K's best language and formal strengths are somewhat side-lined here by its oral-tradition style of telling, but it's also impressive evidence of his flexability as a writer.
Three minutes later, having reduced to ashes with staccato blows of the tongs what so recently was a play, Zez replaced the tongs, turned to Rar and muttered, “Go on.”Interestingly, the narrator at one point, becomes the Hamlet himself and at another point becomes the director.From the book (Narrator as the To be Hamlet) :Stern (To be Hamlet, but not to be one) : I am only a conceiver, you see, I cannot complete anything: the letters hidden inside your book---O great image---shall remain forever unread by me.
Attention: I'm taking the role and breaking it in two.Many things happen above- Rar before narrating the story informs that he is breaking Guildenstern into Guilden and Stern; narrator introduces the director as a lookalike of himself; "You've always avoided playing, even with words" is a reference to himself, though it fits Hamlet equally, pretty well.
(Joanne Turnbull claims that Krzhizhanovsky didn't read Kafka until over a decade after writing this.) Anyway: at his best he's such a stunner that he gets five stars despite the fact that two out of four stories in this book don't really make any sense.But let's talk about the ones that do.
It's crafty and funny and a terrific commentary on Shakespeare's tendency to write in dialogue: even his monologues, Krzhizhanovsky* points out, are a debate between two sides of the speaker.Then there's some sort of Chauceresque thing about an ass.The centerpiece of Letter Killers Club is the lengthy middle story, which continues a theme begun a few years earlier in Capek's R.U.R. by way of Zamyatin's dystopia.
Wow! a collection of stories which are imaginative with a brilliant backdrop. Loved the stories on Hamlet , the story on death and the one with the three men who travelled around the land to get answers to their questions. The story on exes did my head in though
The Letter Killer’s Club is a collection of interconnected stories, with a powerful frame-tale, that ends up challenging and usurping the wondrous works created in the freestyle storytelling of the titular group.
We see this again in the second story, which is a traditional idea of sacred and profane coexisting (or really being two ends of the same spectrum) with neutral actors taking on different roles of sacred (the priest), and profane (the jester).
In telling a story we sacrifice accuracy and truth, at the altar of communication and theme.And Sigizmund’s real question here is whether this sacrifice is a worthy one.
The tale that links each story is also less than compelling.There were a couple of parts of the book that intrigued me, the diversion around the figure of Notker the Stammerer was of interest because he is an important figure in early polyphonic chant (something I like very much) and the 'Tale of Three Mouths' was enjoyable, although the riddle that is central to the story is not resolved with the wit that might be expected from such a medieval yarn.
In this short little 100-page gem, some old writer-type dudes get together and decide that they aren't going to write any of their awesome ideas down anymore.
In what is surely a commentary on the censorship and fear of committing ideas to paper back in the era of Russian craziness, Krzhihzhzhiahzhanovsky uses this backdrop to tell a few really crazy short stories, ranging from the super meta to the super ??????????For instance: A man is playing Hamlet in a play.
I think it is trying to say something like: "all narrative comes from sources, whether books that were written before or experiences by the author.
What would a narrative be like if it came completely from the isolated imagination of the author." The answer of course is that this is impossible, and in fact this book has many sources.
Krizizhanovsky was relentlessly censored, and so you can see the exploration of the theme of what happens to a writer how can't write (or publish), and the inverse, what happens to a book that can't be written (or published).
Regarding a group of brilliant novelists who have forsaken their craft to devote their energy to weekly meetings of the eponymous society, during which each tells a story that is meant to in some way upend traditional narrative conventions.
The short stories themselves are peculiar but broadly entertaining, most containing a speculative element of some kind – probably the most memorable is about a government-engineered virus which eliminates free will, a clear predecessor to Orwell and Huxley, though coming out more than a generation earlier (roughly coterminous with Zamyatin's We).
I think I would probably still recommend his collection of short stories, but this is worth a view.
That's interesting, and while the Letter Killers Club is obviously tied to this, I had a great deal of trouble working out what the individual stories-- meta-theatricality, a medievalist novella, early dystopia, extended fable, and Roman fable--have to do with this theme.
In fact, the more I think about it, the happier I am with the idea that the individual stories (all very entertaining and interesting) really don't have much to do with the interesting but not entertaining frame.
8,5/10
The Letter Killers Club sounded like an expanded version of that concept, with a group discussing story concepts instead of a lone creator, and so I picked it up with excitement and high expectations.
The main framework tying the stories of The Letter Killers Club together, the meetings of avowed non-writers, is at times used to interesting effect, such as when the audience requires a storyteller to reimagine a work, but it’s ultimately more of a curiosity than a substantive addition to the story.
The Letter Killers Club, however, is a work with flaws, and never quite hits the highs reached by certain stories in Memories of the Future.
‘The Letter Killers Club’ was my heady and fantastical introduction to the work of Sigizmund Krzhizhanovsky (try saying that one fast three times).
It centers around a group of storytellers who refuse to put their words on to paper (for they fear that the world of literature and words cramps people’s heads with every idea but their own) and elect to have weekly meetings where they allow their own original ‘themes’ to flourish.
The stories that follow are outrageous fables that range from a rehashing of Hamlet to an imagined dystopia run by machines.
Both reflections are untrue: the cold, the likeness returned by the looking glass is untrue because it is less than tree-dimensional; the face’s other reflection, cast inward, flowing along nerves to the brain and composed of a complex set of sensations, is also untrue because it is more than three-dimensional.” (page 20)• This story proves to be a fun romp as an actor, losing himself in a role, explores the many existences of Hamlet..his provisional existences, that is.
Eine verwickelte Geschichte, voller Geschichten, die sich die Protagonisten erzählen - interessant, aber nicht leicht zugänglich
The narrator happens upon the club, and sits in with them on their Saturday meetings where they take turns telling stories that will never see the light of day, and never leave the room.
There is tension in the group as they directly, and indirectly through their stories, debate the central premise of their club and the need to give words and ideas a physical presence.
The end of the book is fitting as the concepts of the club are finally loosed into the world -an inversion of Krzhizhanovsky's struggle - constantly writing and trying to get his ideas out into the world, his books remained mostly unpublished in his lifetime.
Я - более творческий, поэтому восприняла повесть через призму собственных профессионально-этических проблем.По Кржижановскому, Идея - это высшее создание, но если принести, выпустить ее в обычный мир, Замысел может разорваться от резонанса с нашим простецким миром.
Главный герой, не писатель, в конце так же, насытившись Мыслями, пишет эту самую повесть, понимая, чтоСлова злы и живучи, - и всякий, кто покусится на них, скорее будет убит ими, чем убьет их.Потому что любой творческий человек понимает, что долго держать в себе свои Идеи очень чревато, потом они хлынут как вода во время потопа, и убьют все на своем пути.
This was thrilling.The third is in the Zamyatin school of sci-fi anxiety, and anticipates the Borg, and just felt thoroughly ahead of its time.The fourth and fifth I won't spoil, but suffice it to say that the structure begins to collapse on itself - characters re-appear, members of the club have their (now-known) aesthetic views imposed on narrative, and we begin to question our narrator.
In The Letter Killers Club Krzhizhanovsky addresses one of his main concerns: the figure of the author trying to reconcile his imagination with the concrete world.
It is a series of short stories presented to a secret society of writers that reflect the precarious balance between the author and his concepts, and the respective survival of either in early Soviet culture.
As non-people, the authors try to preserve the purity of their concepts focusing on its means of expression.
Occasionally the individual stories slow and tire the reader with their continual reformulation, and yet they demand engagement.
Which might not mean what you think it means; since surrealism creates its own contexts that defy easy comparison, recommending a surrealist novel often feels like saying, "buy this Britney Spears album, it's her best work." Fortunately, Sigizmund Krzhizhanovsky, whose 1926 novel is being published for the first time in English after being discovered in the 1960's in the Soviet archives, manages to put these short story fragments into a somewhat useful setting.
Like one of Stanislaw Lem's Ivan Tichy star-logs, the Letters Killer Club relies on the frame around its stories to give those stories their meaning.

For weeks after I read it, a thought has kept recurring to me with ever-increasing frequency and insistence (a proper clichéd analogy would be comparing it to NHK's door knocking).
And that is, what will happen to me if all my books are gone?
Right now as I am writing this, I don't have the book at hand.
With its invisible presence, all I can conjure up is how light it is, its lovely cover design, The Land of Roles, Hamlet, the three men embarking on a journey to search for the proper use of one’s mouth and...the ethical machine.
God the Russians are weird.Sweeping (joking) generalizations aside -- I'm not sure I totally got this book. I feel like it needs several rereads and a lot of contextual knowledge I don't have -- but what I did get out of it, personally anyway, was really enjoyable. Krzhizhanovsky had some amazing concepts knocking around that big brain of his -- the story of the 'exes' is really superb; prescient of many scifi dystopias to come. The sum total may have been over my head, but the parts themselves were totally worth it.

An absolutely brilliant frame story where the connections and correspondences between stories and the frame itself are multifaceted and frustratingly complex. The ingenuity, variety, and wit on display are dazzling. The implicit critiques of not only Bolshevism but modernism are withering. Like the Canterbury Tales in reverse, this one ends in spring--spring rendered as winter's "death agony."
Interesting concept. Not sure if I was in the correct mindset for it, though..
Put me in mind of Borges and Calvino. Wonderful.
