https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/322187.Economics
Wishful thinking is bad thinking and leads to little wish fulfillment. I’ve long cherished the secret dream of becoming some sort of modern Renaissance man. My mind would rove over every academic subject, thereby giving me a complete picture of the current state of knowledge in every domain. How to do this? I could think of only one obvious way: to read textbooks in every discipline. But over time, my enthusiasm for this project cooled; and that is mainly because I realized it was impossible. T
In fact, with Samuelson’s emphasis on the limitations of monetary policy (money supply, inflation and interest rates) and the importance of fiscal policy (taxes, government spending), this book may be more relevant than much of the economic thinking that came later—what with the rise of the Chicago School and its heavy emphasis on monetary policy and its complete de-emphasis of the role of government.
Of course, none of this prevents the book from being interesting and educational; and whatever the reader loses in modern economic knowledge is made up in historical interest.
This book always makes me believe I'm an economist. I love it.
A couple years ago I started reading this book. Soon I realized it wasn't a read it and get over with it book. For me it's a reference book. Sometimes I read the sections related to what I'm studying at the moment or something I'm interested in having more knowledge.I'm going to start taking a degree in Economics in October and I believe it'll be of even more use then.
هذا الكتاب، من أفضل كتب الاقتصاد على الإطلاق حيث ترجم إلى العديد من لغات العالم، ويصدر منه في كل عام نسخة جديدة بلغته الأم (الانكليزية)..مرجع ضروري وأساسي، لكل علمٍ يمت للاقتصاد ومنها العلوم الإدارية.
It is very interesting book and I like it
It gave me a comprehensive picture about the economics system.It is a very good start to study economics.
Hm, Doing my Homework in Economics, Instead of Going to the library, Ill just read it here..
How can one know Adam Smith economics and the (brutal) capitalism without this?
Re-read
Course oriented. Not very insightful to say but gives all the knowledge of basic concepts.
best book in basics of economics
The perfect textbook to the introduction of Economics
If ever there was a textbook and page-turner rolled in one, this is it. That this was a labor of love is readily apparent to anyone who has had opportunity to study it; in the version I used, Bob Dylan was quoted:"Come senators, congressmen/Please heed the call...For the times they are a-changin'." Indeed they are, and if the G in Y = C + I + G + X has stepped up virtually everywhere of late, it is in no small measure due to this book. Samuelson died this week; his influence will doubtless live a great deal longer.
This was the textbook I had in Econ 101--- but who didn't?
It was the classic, standard text out there for a generation or two.
The old "Official Preppy Handbook" even listed it was one of the books post-college preppies always seem to have on their shelves.
It's only been in the last year or so that I've realised--- going back to re-read economics after the global economic meltdown ---how well-written and clearly-reasoned Samuelson is.
Consensus neo-Keynesian, yes.
If you're a Marxist or a Friedmanite, it'll make you angry.
But I still think it's the best intro econ text I've run across.
As someone who favors the Austrian school of economics, this book was a storehouse of information on the sort of opinions... It was fun going through this book and seeing the technical aspects of the arguments of the 'other side.' If I was to rate this as an economic text, then I would give it a much lower rating.
I was looking for a revision of economics concepts and reached out to one of the most respected texts on the subject ever written. Professors Samuelson and Nordhaus wrote a book that is still very enjoyable and understandable. I guess some people may have gone for a more recent text, but I think the book is still a very relevant overview of the subject.
When I first started reading Economics, I didn't want to like it. After all, it is a text book. However, once I got further into it, I found the writing reasonably enjoyable, the style simple yet direct, and the content thorough.My favorite part of the book was in Chapter 26. The author spent some time describing pricing systems in a way that it was very understandable and non-biased.
starting my first year as an aspiring economist i was shocked by the apathy of teachers and students in Arabian colleges, so i decided to pursue it on my own. this book took some time but proved essential for grasping the basics of modern economics. definitely a gospel for economy students everywhere.
This is our book for eco. studies in MA course. The writing style is good and the examples are clear. Easy to learn but there is too much extra information so you have to fish out the important staff.
It is no wonder that this book has been reprinted over and over (of course with improvement and update on data). It is quite comprehensive on both micro and macro parts, along with Samuelson's own input of thoughts and clever comments
It is good
uppose the price of a coommodity was Tk .03 and at the quantity demand was 3250 units but when price increase to Tk .05 demand decreased to 1250 units .What will be the value of elasticity
I actually liked this book !easy and sufficient as an introduction to Economics
i like this book
it's amazing book in basic of economics
The one :)
sa
Along with my professor, Winnie Monsod, I survived Economics through Samuelson. Thorough and very detailed.
6th edition, no better introduction to economic reasoning, no better place to study it than Wharton. I have been applying the principles ever since.
good
