https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/220472.The_Sweet_Science
Liebling writes in a dry and sarcastic style, and even without knowing or caring much about boxing in the pre-Cassius Clay era of the 20th century I could still find the book enjoyable.
Liebling wrote these essays when the sport was going through a dark time.
Before TV there existed a thriving fighting culture, local sports clubs and small time venues gave fighters a place to hone their skills.
New and exciting fighters were needed to keep things fresh, but without places to fight and the time it took to learn the 'sweet science' of connecting fist to face the quality of the new fighters was lacking.
Reading his accounts of the fights made me feel like I was accompanying him there while he provided insightful commentary about tactics, society, and where the particular match belonged in boxing history (which, as a side note, I didn't realize went as far back as it does - Liebling would often refer to famous matches from the 1700s!).This book also did something I wouldn't have thought possible - it made me want to watch a boxing match.
Prior to this book, I thought of boxing as purely about one guy being able to hit the other guy harder, but now I know that that is but one part of a larger game.
There was some pretty good material about people seat-hopping and the way they would try to pretend like they had no idea what they'd done, but ultimately it got to be just another part of another chapter.The third, I could care less.
Just eat the damn egg already.Probably the most interesting part of this book, to me, was that Liebling made a pretty good case for television ruining boxing.
Television, however, only featured big fights, which meant that a lot of fighters had to either be pushed into the big time way before they were ready or figure out how to make their money elsewhere.
I resisted reading this book, just because, as a lover of boxing and literary journalism, my tendency is to love books I don't hear praised much, and to find myself underwhelmed by canonized classics.
Some people like this maximalist (sic) approach to their boxing journalism, but it just doesn't work for me, as a matter of personal preference.
Liebling's work is an artifact from a time when men wore cigar-smoke as a kind of cologne, and fights were as apt to happen at the Polo Grounds as at Madison Square Garden.
The stories ramble from one topic to the next, often following Liebling through a night of watching boxing, from finding his seat and describing the others in his section to visiting a bar afterwards and maybe finding the bartender was at the same fights, and heading south from the boxing venue to get a train going north, because that's how you get a seat, of course.
You can tell Liebling was a born storyteller, and his writing comes across like he’s telling you this story about a night watching boxing while he’s sitting next to you in a bar.
I prefer to make book recommendations based on prose and intelligence certainly, but also on depth and meaning, and on entertainment value and personal appeal (hence my high opinion of The Stolen Child).
The essays are character portraits and period pieces about boxing’s last great era of prominence (excluding later fights by Ali, of course).
Ultimately, however, the pieces lose the depth and appeal they once probably had due to boxing’s current decline in cultural prominence.
His essays assume the readers are boxing fans; for instance, one essay had the sentence “The fight was, as you probably read .
If you’re not, or never were a boxing fan, then this book may fall flat on your sensibilities.
If you were (or are), however, this book will probably be the best one you will ever read on the sport.
Then again, if you’re not, you will at least come to recognize what the average boxing fan sees in the sport and to learn more about the principal players of the early 1950s.
He was an avid boxing fan and knew the sport and all of the major figures involved.
Aside from who and what he knew, however, he was one of the best and most perceptive reporters of his day.
Liebling paints a colorful picture of boxing's bygone era, a time where TV was still gaining a cultural foothold and written accounts of fights still held high value.
Liebling also dawdles around the trivial details of his experiences - his cab rides, his meals, how he obtained his tickets (did he pay or were they free?).
You'll learn more about Liebling's preflight habits than you will about most if the actual fighters or fights, but it's still kind of a fun ride.Marciano v Moore, the last article in the collection really painted an epic picture of two legends in the sport.
I am far more in love wit the style than I am with the subject, but Liebling does an admirable job of capturing the allure of the sport. More than just a book about boxing it captures the spirit of America at it's post war peak- a cigar chomping, manly America that we will never see again. I loved the sarcastic style. The bar-room smoke filled, beer and mustard stained pages.
Very good and very well-written. Each chapter is an essay about a fight, usually covering a short history, training camp, the fight itself, and some reflection. Liebling is an excellent writer and makes every fight seem like the outcome is still uncertain, even sixty years later. I only wish he would have been around to cover the rise of Muhammad Ali.
Colonel Stingo, Mush Sallow, Chickie Ferrara, Whitey Bimstein, Tiny Payne, Philadelphia Jack O'Brien, Jimmy Tomato, Bertie Briscoe . . . This book is worth reading just for the names.
Some of the finest boxing writing ever, which launched a whole era and style of writers trying to sound like Liebling.
Most notably, however, it was between an age where the boxing match was strictly a community event which made an audience the true third man of the match, not the referee; and an era to come that would completely dominate the sport through the televised event that would effectively take the audience out of it, in more ways then one.
In reading Liebling's great articles, one actually gets the feel for what it must have been like for a fight-goer in New York in the 50s.
Liebling recounts this as a match, not just between men, but between concepts: brains(Moore) & beastly power(Marciano).
. .this book is somewhat unassailable - even if it is exclusively about boxing in the 40s and 50s.
. .I imagine S.I. was thinking of this essay and maybe not trying to read the book over again from the top like I was doing a few weeks ago.
Liebling is in thrall of Pierce Egan - a British boxing writer from the 1800s who gets referenced ad nauseum throughout the essays.
This book ends up being an extremely nuanced portrait of another time and place - superbly captured and a delicious experience.
As a result, it's a book that celebrates boxing for what it really is: the sweetest science.While I'm a boxing nerd (I've watched fights involving all of the people mentioned above and a lot of the people in the book), this is a book for anyone interested in sports and the people who engage in them.
While he has some questionable viewpoints with regards to boxing on television, Liebling is a smart writer who has really, truly created one of the best sports books of the 20th Century.
I would maybe even argue that it's the best sports book of the 20th Century.
Liebling celebrates the sweet science and the eternal verities of boxing, don't throw the elbow, don't drop the shoulder, and so forth.
Other skilled technical fighters and tacticians go down to the basic physical realities of youthful men taking on older and more experienced, but physically less capable lions, a mythic struggle of old trying to hold off the advance of the young with strategem after strategem a failing body cannot execute.
The main theme of the book is, therefore, age and the inexorable decline of the body, a universal complaint which humanizes boxing into a spectacle of human life.
A collection of boxing essays from A.J. Liebling, a writer for the New Yorker from the first half of the 20th century, that are similar but enjoyable.
(A running joke in his essays is to lob a bombastic line of praise for Boxiana at some point near the beginning.) While Liebling clearly loves the sport of boxing, he avoids over-reverence, a trap that has snared thousands of mediocre sportswriters.
This is, for me, the best way to write about sports - don't make it bigger than it is (it's entertainment), don't make mythologies out of the athletes (they're just people), basically don't try too hard.
The Sweet Science is often cited as one of the greatest sport books of all time, a tall order among boxing books alone.
Liebling's collection of essays through the 1950s come at an interesting time for the sport of boxing.
His insights are interesting, particularly the idea of television's impact on boxing.
Baseball immediately comes to mind as something I find far more enjoyable sitting at Fenway Park than at home.Sometimes I feel that while the prose in The Sweet Science is rich, the material itself on the other hand can leave the reader wanting more from the book.
I have a fascination with the rough and tumble sports of earlier days - the old grit and romance of F1, the days when horse racing was a major draw with celebrities such as Bing Crosby owning horses, the six day races and endurance track cycling events in smoke filled velodromes often accompanied by raucous live music.
Liebling is a great essayist who wrote on a wide variety of subjects.
This book is a collection of essays produced for the most part for the New Yorker on the Sweet Science boxing.
Liebling died in 1963 but these essays on the fight game are prescient in their prediction about the decline of boxing brought on by television and changing economic times.
The standard format of each essay centers around a particular bout between two fighters.
His prose is masterful and his observations about people great and small are spot on and entertaining to boot.
I wasn't alive to read Ring Lardner or Jimmy Cannon, or to listen to Mel Allen or Red Barber, but I can still read Liebling, a voice from the distant past, and that voice, even in boxing recaps that go back over 60 years, is alive: fully distinct, always cynical, never at a loss for the words of observation.
His work here is far superior to Earl of Louisiana written closer to the end of his life when Liebling was perhaps tired and felled by his physical addiction to heavy foods and rich wines.
Keep in mind that Liebling wrote these stories individually without intention of compiling them into a single tome and you'll be able to endure the repetition of his epithets for Pierce Egan (his predecessor whom he unabashedly idolizes).I enjoyed Liebling's voice and his objective viewpoint.
He provides a deep and rich history of the fights he covered by telling us about the people involved and bringing us into the world they inhabit.
Is there a single living sports journalist who does this?I read the book's last, best and most important sentence only 30 minutes ago, and already it dissolved in my habitual cynicism.
'Charles come in in a good mental condition, and he started right in to execute--biff!' Mr. Brown here took the stance of a confident standup boxer.
'But Rocky is coming in.' Mr. Brown here stepped back.
'It is very hard to think when you are getting your brains knocked out,' Mr. Brown said.
'So Charles withdraws back to consider the situation.' Mr. Brown withdrew.
Meanwhile, Marciano is still coming in.
Charles hits him a good right to the jaw, and Rocky hits him with a left hook anda right.
First thing Charles knows, he is grabbing, and then he is just trying to hang on.
It wasn't what I thought - I thought it would cover some of the big fights on boxing' golden era - which it does some, particularly related to Rocky Marciano, but is more a detailed following of what makes fighters good based on observations in training gyms and undercard fights at Madison Square Garden.
However, I did enjoy reading what it was like to take the subway to big fights at the Garden or Yankee Stadium, and the lead up and post-fight analysis.
And it make me wish I could have seen the sport during this era, before it faded from popularity.
This book is old, pre-Cassius Clay, yet Liebling does a fantastic job putting you in the time effortlessly.Quick review:The writer goes to all these boxing matches, many times meeting with the fighters ahead of time, and just writes about his experiences.
Describes his surroundings, what he does before the fights, after the fights, the best post-fight bars to go to, it all seems very casual.That being said, I've never read such an articulate sports writer.
His last fight with Marciano and Moore has both comparisons to Ahab and the Whale as well as the Myth of Sisyphus, and regularly quotes writers from hundreds of years ago, references boxers from the birth of the sport, and uses a vocabulary usually found in poetry.
Probably would have been a little more relevant if I was more familiar with guys like Joe Louis and Rocky Marciano, but Liebling is as erudite about the world of boxing as any snoot might be about history or literature, and brings an intellectual eye to the ring.
The first-person accounts of the fights from the crowd is archetypal of the sage sports-fan, who knows enough about a game to not get too excited about passing fads, and to sit quietly and observe, rather than jump around and shout at his fighters.
What a fantastic collection of pieces. Like Royko and Breslin and Terkel, old boy was "of the people" but still knew how to turn a phrase. The only thing I didn't like about this book was how sad it made me that most everyone I know would be stumped by his vocabulary every other page. That said, he knew the fight world inside out. Lovely.
The incomparable mid-20th century writer A.J. Liebling's essays on boxing. Unbelievable writer, and also wrote about about horse racing, food, politics, and was a WWII war correspondent. Very simply a great writer.
A must read if you love boxing literature, or just want a few snapshots of what New York was like before it's decline and subsequent Giuliani/Bloomberg Disney-fixation.Classic New Yorker writing at its best.
Beautifully written. Laugh out loud funny. Dull
