https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/94804.Days_with_Frog_and_Toad
In realm of silence, when thoughts corrodeWords fade, swept away by a mind sham, A comfort searched 
Kites 11-14-17
On these days with Frog and Toad, they tell a spooky story, have a birthday, and fly a kite.
In "The Kite" three robins laugh at Toad for trying to fly his kite.
"That kite will not fly," they say.
Eventually, the kite flies higher than those asshole robins, providing a satisfactory end to that story.
(Seriously, fuck those robins.) "Shivers" tells a fun cozy ghost story.
It was a warm, good feelings." The illustrations are fun in that one, especially the close-ups of their expressive little faces.
Toad lies in bed, afraid of all the work he has to do tomorrow.
Another collection of Frog and Toad stories from Lobel and again I am struck by how tenderly Lobel touches on themes of childhood and childness but also the power and draw of true friendship. Again, the pictures lend so much to the story, if not more, and I adore Frog's positivity as a foil to Toad's tiredness yet deep affection for his dear friend. What wonderful first reads these would be for children.
What does love look like to you? To me it looks like Frog and Toad.
Frog and Toad stories are always brilliant little gems, and these are no exception.
"The Kite" is the best and most humorous story to read aloud (those Robins in the story are Frieda, Patty and Violet from Peanuts).
As with all the stories, Frog is generally the calm words of wisdom and voice of reason to Toad's hysterics, grumpy-old-man-ness, bad moods, suspicious, and self deprecation.
Frog is essentially Toad's ego, navigating between Toad's id and superego.
Freud would have had a hey-day with Toad.Really, every child should own at least one, if not all the Frog and Toad books.
Maybe Mo Willems.
Maybe.
Written on the wall of the bathroom in a local cafe:"Englishman dies from 'friendly fire.'Just like an American to stab his only friend in the back.Scorpion and Frog!!!!"Subsequently added by me:"Frog and Toad"Subsequently added by some uncouth fellow:"Fuck the Toad."Why so much vehemence? If it weren't for Frog and Toad, I wouldn't have made it through church every Sunday. I would write about how every relationship is comprised of a Frog and a Toad, but I can't really remember which one was which.
This is my favourite, favourite Frog and Toad. Friendship, humour, simplicity... it's just perfect!
This is much more entertaining than so many of the other easy readers. I've only come across one child who didn't like these stories.
I am an ESL teacher for children and this is a great book for those who are learning to read English. The language is simple but entertaining. I use it in my classes with children ranging in age from 5 to 13 and it is well received, the students can practice reading a book but also build their confidence in their English proficiency which helps them progress more quickly.
Any little event can turn into great fun with these two.
I did not like this book because I don't really like frog and toad books. I enjoyed this book because I liked the part when a kite flew when frog and toad were trying to fly it.
Text-to- Self ConnectionDays With Frog and Toad by Arnold Lobel is a book of short stories.
Each story in the text brings back memories of a point in my life where I feel like Frog or Toad who are friends.
Like the first story where Toad had his house in a mess and saying to Frog that he will clean it tomorrow.
I learned a job today, is for today don't wait for tomorrow.
For tomorrow brings its own day of rest.
Which Toad and Frog learned.
So ,this was the last book in the series- I loved reading this one again all the 5 stories -my favourites were Alone :):)and The Hat :):):)-their friendship is lovely ,adorable and I kept going like "aww this is so cute "throughout the book-I want to a be kid again and read all those amazing amazing books for kids like this one .Too bad I never found" Neverland" in my childhood and had to grow up !*sighs*:'(
Published in 1979, the two have not changed a whole lot, though the stories have gotten funnier - droll is perhaps a better word.The pessimistic Toad is procrastinating in "Tomorrow" until he realizes that he's down in the dumps because of all he has to do tomorrow - so he does it all today and tires himself out.In "The Kite," Frog's optomism pays off.
Drawings of Frog and Toad are on almost every page, and are detailed enough to warrant a lengthy view and some comments from young readers.
The words are understandable and readable enough for very young readers, yet they manage to tell a story with an amusing message.Another book my children loved that I'm passing on to the grandchildren.
If you do not have a best friend, you maybe can learn from this book by reading it.
I will not tell you what it's called, but you can find out by reading this book.
That's your mission.The author is Arnold Lobel.
I hope you have a good reading and some good facts.
Also, I hope you enjoy reading this book.In Frog and Toad's series, there are "Days' with Frog and Toad," "Frog and Toad Ae Friends, " and...
That's your other mission.
I hope you like this book alot.
Have a good time reading this friendly book.Sincerely,Chris
Whilst standing around a bookshop waiting on not 2 but 3 attendants to find a book I was looking for, this book caught my eye as I had just commented on a fellow Goodread's review.
One will never know ).No wonder this book and 2 others from the series were on sale 3 for $10.00.
Save your money or better yet find a real book ( children's or otherwise) and grab a latte with that $10.00.
You will have far more entertainment value for your money.Oh, the book I was looking for?...
Frog and Toad books bring back so many memories from my childhood! I remember so vividly my mom reading these books to me before bed. Everything from the pictures of a green frog and toad in "old man" clothing, to Toad's negative way of thinking takes me back to my childhood. I think that this book holds five short stories that pack great life lessons, such as; don't procrastinate, don't give up even if other people are doubting you, and sometimes being a little bit afraid is a good thing. Glad to re-read this after such a long time!
As a part of getting our boy to read, we bought this in addition to the boxed Frog and Toad set. These are wonderful, gentle, funny and very readable books. They address life's mysteries without flinching (for example being scared, worry, death, loss, feeling uncertain, the meaning and value of friendship) and for their age group they are very, very readable (and adults can enjoy reading them aloud without finding themselves bored). I would love to have met Arnold Lobel. He belongs up there with the great children's authors.
I like the series very much, so I bought the audiobook on CD.Why do I like it?Because it describes a good friendship and good-hearted characters. Frog and Toad have defferent personalities, but they respect each other. That's why I love the series.
this frog and toad book deals the joys of spending time with your friends, celebrating birthdays and how much fun it can be telling scarry stories. the overall idea of the book is just how much fun it is to spend time with a good friend.
Toad is such a stooge.
A cute little story about friendship!To read my full review, click here.
My son read this to me. Loved watching him laugh.
what a great read, eh? i'm still recommending it to kids on a weekly basis and getting thanked for doing so by parents who'd forgotten it.
Both my 2-year-old and 4-year-old love to listen to these stories.
Any book with Frog and Toad are great books to teach children about EVERYTHING!!! From sight words, to narrotive elements. I remember learning to read these books in the 1st grade.
- The Kite: Frog has a kit and he goes with Toad to fly it.
He asks Toad to run with kite so it'll fly.
But no matter how much Toad runs it doesn't fly.
- Shivers: Frog tells Toad a ghost story while sitting by the fire drinking tea.
Frog tells him to think big thoughts to help shrink the hat, so Toad tries to think as big as he can.
Toad is worried Frog wants to be alone because he's sad, so he makes a picnic and tries to go to the island that Frog is sitting on.
The patterns and shapes of Lobel's stories extend his readers' competences and provide bridges from picture books to extended texts.
Professional Recommendation/Review #2:It is the twenty-fifth anniversary of this wonderful book and readers who have not met the often-clueless Toad and his levelheaded friend Frog are in for a treat.
Frog and Toad does a good job with shorter sentences for young readers to practice more sentences on pages.
Eventually, this book could lead readers into reading more intense chapter books with more words per page and less pictures per page.
Ik heb het gelezen toen ik in bed lag en het zou voor kinderen een fantastisch voorleesverhaaltje voor in bed zijn.Mijn favoriete verhaaltje is het eerste verhaaltje over die pad die niet zijn bed uit wilt om zijn huis op te ruimen.
Pad heeft kikker die hem stimuleert om op te ruimen en ik heb mijn moeder alleen zeg ik altijd: ‘dat doe ik straks wel’.
Dat maakt het zo leuk dat zij beste vrienden zijn.
Je kunt in het boek lezen dat zij echt beste vrienden zijn en om elkaar geven.
