https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/248954.If_You_Want_to_Write
If you want to read a good book about writing, don't read this one.
One of the things that makes me long to write and write well is how much I enjoy reading.
She thinks that a lot of people "read to waste time" and "be entertained." The lengths she went to to put in these tidbits of information made me blatantly dislike her.
In On Writing, he tells it like it is: If you want to be a writer, and you're not writing at that exact moment-- the next best thing you can and should be doing is READING.
If you want them to be honest, be honest yourself.""...women who do too much house work should neglect it for their writing" [art, music, etc] :) hehe"...how do these creative thoughts come?
It is the little bomb of revelation bursting inside of you...."I see, I understand that now!" and a feeling of happiness.""...in time he even may come to understand what Christ did....how if one is great and imaginative enough one can honor and love people with all their limitations.""...the true self, the imagination, or the Holy Ghost, or the Conscience.
It is the Spirit.""writing [or art, music, photography, inspiration] is this: an impulse to share with other people a feeling or truth that I myself had.
I first read this book when I was 13, so I can't vouch for how useful it might be to an adult reader.
All I know is that no book has changed my life as dramatically as this one did when I was 13.
Reading this book was like one long epiphany for me.
If you liked "Walden," you'll almost definitely love this book.
It's quite a bit like "Walden" in spirit, actually, except that its scope is somewhat narrower and it's less self-righteous and significantly easier to read.
Women should shut the door on their kids and write.
Women should pursue their creative impulses instead of being tethered to the idea of being the perfect wife and mother...great stuff here.
For to teach, encourage, cheer up, console, amuse, stimulate or advise a husband or children or friends, you have to be something yourself.
Mentally (at least three or four times a day) thumb your nose at all know-it-alls, jeerers, critics, doubters.” “By encouraging the critic in themselves (the hater) they have killed the artist (the lover).” “I want to assure you with all earnestness that no writing is a waste of time--no creative work where the feelings, the imagination, the intelligence must work.

I have read this book every couple of years since I was a teenager.
I gave it to my Dad to read and he loved it, and said it was so hard to get through because every line was true and made you sit there in awe wondering about your life.
I think it's true you have to forget the blahness of similarly titled books and know this book is as much about how to live as how to write.
Anyone I've met who read it said, oh yes, they too read it every few years.
Brenda Ueland’s If You Want to Write: A Book about Art, Independence and Spirit completely changed my notion about writing.
Ueland has showed me, that only if you let your creativity flow freely, without being imprisoned by any rules and restrictions, can you break free and create something true, something interesting.
There are no rules in her book, only suggestions as to how to free your creative spirit.
While reading the book, you can tell how much Ueland believes in what she has written.
If You Want to Write A Book about Art, Independence and SpiritBrenda Ueland
This is by far and away the best book I have ever read on writing, and I have read a number of them.Her approach is one of pure enthusiasm and letting go of your notions of writing "well" or worrying about your "style", instead she advocates tapping into what is true and genuine for you and just putting the words on paper, and seeing what happens.I plan on purchasing her fictional and memoir books, and re-reading parts of this book for inspiration for a long time.
Not to mention useless tirades full of Coelho'esque esoteric cliches and countless references to God and Christianity.What really irritated me was the contrast between her (self-proclaimed) modesty and frequent, mean attacks against everyone, who does not blindly flow with his or her emotions and contempt for everyone, who dares to think critically (her advice for a man that brought up his kids in rational atmosphere - "I think he might as well have taken them out in the backyard and killed them with an ax").
I simply can not agree with that - many mass murderers and tyrants considered themselves artists, without reason and moral introspection art can be a great destructive force, too!Ueland finishes with following words : "I believe this book will hasten the Millenium by two or three hundreds years".
Her book is partly warm reassurance, and partly a kick in the pants.Other favorite quotes:"everyone is ashamed and hang-dog about showing the slightest enthusiasm or passion or sincere feeling about anything.""Everybody is original, if he tells the truth, if he speaks from himself.""Resign yourself tranquilly to doing something slow and worthless for at least an hour." "work hard and with gumption at something you love and care for and think is important."
She talks a lot about the general fraudulence and darkness in the world of art and art appreciation that reallly gets me down a lot and she's very comforting and wise about the heartbreak of that stuff as well as figuring out how to get past it.
And I can't believe how modern it feels; it was written in 1938!
This woman writes about this sort of fraudulence and art-for-money or art-for-fame attitudes without even seeing all the obscene stupidities that we have from the last 70 years!
I can't believe she already felt this way in 1938!
However, it was not as life changing for me as it was for the many who have read it.This would have made a good pamphlet or even blog post.
I cannot think of one critic who has written a phenomenal book, but I can think of numerous authors who have made good critics.
I would take a recommended reading list from an author over a critic any day.
The rest are all affirmations of her thesis.Still it's one of the better "how to write,"...er, "how to be creative" works I've read.
I won't mince words, I really like reading books about writing, not for "tips and tricks" or secrets, but to catch some of the light coming off of the authors, some little shards of passion, and also to see what drives other writers to, well, write.
So often it seems like people are waiting for the fabled Lightning Bolt of Inspiration, when, Brenda says, all they really need is to invite the inspiration by positioning yourself intentionally and it will come.
I found something in this book that I lost several years ago. I am so happy to have found inspiration from Brenda to finally follow through with my dreams. The last sentence in this book is as follows, "And if it has given you the impulse to write one small story, then I am pleased." I have rediscovered my voice and started writing again all because of the guidance that this book offered me.
He said: 'That is the best book ever written about how to write.'"I agree...
To end with another quote from Ueland, the last three paragraphs of the book which explain that she feels she is far reaching as well:"And why should you do all these things?
Because the best way to know the Truth or Beauty is to try to express it.
And what is the purpose of existence Here or Yonder but to discover truth and beauty and express it, i.e., share it with others?"And so I really believe this book will hasten the Millennium by two or three hundred years.
Not the How-to of writing dialogue or description or plot-outlining, but books about the real art of writing, the truth of it, the flow of creativity that so easily gets blocked.
It's a brilliant book, and although some of the language is strange-sounding to our 21st century sentimentality, it gets to the essence of what every writer needs to hear: You can do it.
Ignore the critics and the mockers and the correctors and just work.
She was writing from her heart, and to share her vision of what art is, and how the writer can create freely.
I read many books about creative people's lives, hoping to glean some knowledge and inspiration.
This book is the motherload, the culmination............The author is a writer as well as a teacher, which gives her the birds eye view as well as being a layperson in this field.
Although her subject is creativity and imagination in writing, I find that substituting "music" or even just "creativity" for "writing", this book applies whatever field you need it to.
Know that it is good to work.
Work with love and think of liking it when you do it.
It's a nice read, if you currently feel blocked it's probably the best moment to get this book.
For those who would worry about the age of this book, it doesn't matter -- it's actually surprising to see how little have changed between then and now.All in all, I recommend reading this book at least once at some point, preferably during one of those moments when you feel down, unsure of yourself and wondering if you actually have any "talent." Brenda Ueland's extraordinary generosity is bound to make an impact.
Brenda Ueland spent most of her ninety-three years as a writer.
"If You Want To Write", which was originally published in 1938, is her best-selling guidebook to finding your own creative center and expressing it through lively and memorable prose.
Carl Sandburg called it "the best book ever written about how to write."Ueland advises that artistic genius exists within all of us, and awakening it is a simple matter: write about what genuinely interests you, and be honest with yourself and your audience while doing so.
The book is directed more toward fiction writers than those who specialize in nonfiction, but some of Ueland's suggestions can be applied universally.
I'm usually a bit gunshy of "how to write" books, but I thought this one came pretty close to being as good as they get. The focus was on fidelity to the self and how to let one's voice out. I liked the image of Christ as the most creative person to have ever lived. I really liked chapter 10: Why women who do too much housework should neglect it for their writing (to set a good example for the children--menial work at the expense of all true, ardent, creative work is a sin against the holy ghost).
A must-read for those trying to find their voice in any creative endeavor.
Here's what I wrote as I read to explain why:"As I read, I can't help but think, "If this woman quotes her students one more time, I'm going to smack someone." Is this a book about writing or a book about saying "Oh goody you're the bestest writer ever and always" to all her students?
But the prominent writers have the same sound in their fiction too, Glasworthy, etc.
If she thinks so little of all writers but "the great Russians" then her opinion is of little use to me.
Sometimes I have a difficult time with reading books on writing like this one, for a variety of reasons.
I feel like I'm being cornered at a party by a strange old woman pontificating about her writing philosophy.Her biases about various writers are equally unusual.
She is critical of writers like Steinbeck and any writing that feels contrived to her.
Sometimes, she has some good points that I even agree with as a writer--that writing the simply flows in an initial draft, uninhibited can be fantastic and the basis for something wonderful.
It doesn't really matter when I finished or when I began reading this book.
She doesn't care about what you think and tells us, if we wish to write well, not to worry about how it sounds.
I think one of the things you have to be prepared to do with this book, especially if you are already a writer or a journalist for many years as I was when I first picked it up, is to let your armour down.
To stop telling wanting to write what you think others want to hear, wanting their acceptance.
The last is my favorite: "I learned...that inspiration does not come like a bolt, nor is it kinetic, energetic striving, but it comes into us slowly and quietly and all the time, though we must regularly and every day give it a little chance to start flowing, prime it with a little solitude and idleness." "No writing is a waste of time – no creative work where the feelings, the imagination, the intelligence must work.
It has done you good." "The only good teachers for you are those friends who love you, who think you are interesting, or very important, or wonderfully funny; whose attitude is: "Tell me more.
Read this book.
This is about the creative process and I couldn't stop reading it.
Brenda Ueland has not only a fine intelligence about writing, but she understands creativity better than most writing teachers or workshop leaders who tend to drill mechanics, index cards, and outline theories.
I especially like Ueland's insights for the fiction writer who is struggling.
She compares creative writing to a river that "will begin to flow through you." She believes in freeing yourself to write.
I've been a fiction writer for years with two books and short stories published--and I have twelve writing books on my shelf.
I wish I had read it years ago.
This book ranks right up their with Julia Cameron's Artist's Way. Like that author, Ueland taps into who you really are and what you are trying to do and what is blocking you.
This book teaches you to free your inspiriation and creativity, and by it teaching you to write the truth you want to share, you realize the books you really like to read are not the artificial ones, but the ones that feel "real." Favorite authors opened up and shared something, gave something of themselves.This book is inspiration, and like motivation ("People often say that motivation doesn't last.
If You Want to Write, Be My Guest, Because I Don't Feel Like it Right Now.Sooooooo many quotes and excerpts. Numerous quotes and super-long excerpts. I have no problem with either, but I wanted to know what she had to say, and what she had to say was very useful, just far far scantier than expected. Holy cats.
I loved this book. It has a lot to offer a writer. I think if a person wants to improve on their writing they need this book on their shelve. It is a very encouraging book.
Very inspirational and witty, Ueland has strong opinions she's unapologetic about and is the best of encouragers.
