https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3980.From_the_Mixed_Up_Files_of_Mrs_Basil_E_Frankweiler
OK, I'll admit it: I freakin' hate the Newbery Medal.
There's no magic or mystery to any of them...reading these books is akin to eating dry toast when you know damned well you could cover the bread with butter, cinnamon, and sugar.
The point of this rant is that there is a major exception to my "I Hate Newbery Rule," and it's this book.
I love Claudia's obsession with art and mystery, as well as Jamie's passion for gambling.
Snappy dialogue, brilliant plot, evocative subject...what was the Newbery panel thinking when they awarded this book its highest honor?
Then I read it again, and kept going until, according to my personal mythology, I had read it 11 times.
I hadn't picked it up for many years since then, but this book is woven into my neural pathways every which way, and rereading it still makes me love it more.The Mixed-Up Files drew me in with its details and paraphernalia (the instrument cases!
I also loved the tone: I knew even then when I was being talked down to, but Konigsburg clearly respects her readers and expects them to be smart.
Like Claudia, I was privileged, smart and loved, but I wanted something more.

From the mixed-up files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler, E.L. Konigsburg Elaine Lobl Konigsburg was an American author and illustrator of children's books and young adult fiction. تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و سوم نوامبر سال 2009 میلادی عنوان: فرار به موزه نيويورک؛ نویسنده: ای.ال. کنیگزبرگ؛ مترجم: شهره نورصالحی؛ ویراستار: فریبا نباتی؛ تهران، پیدایش، 1387، در 216 ص، شابک: 9789643495459؛ از مجموعه «پسر قهرمان» و از داستانهای انگلیسی قرن بیستم است. «دسیموس رکس» و برده های دیگر در زندانی در میدان «آرنا» ا
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و سوم نوامبر سال 2009 میلادی عنوان: فرار به موزه نيويورک؛ نویسنده: ای.ال.
«دسیموس رکس» و برده‌ های دیگر در زندانی در میدان «آرنا» اسیر شده‌ اند.
آن‌ها به خواست ارباب «اسلاویوس» و به خاطر بدهی خانواده‌ هاشان دزدیده شده و اینک ارباب برای انتخاب پسر قهرمان برای کشاندن مردم به میدان «آرنا» و تماشای مسابقات وحشتناک، آن‌ها را مجبور به شرکت در مسابقات طاقت‌فرسا می‌کند.
«دسیموس» در جنگ زنجیرهای خاردار، در برابر رقیب زورمند خود پیروز شده، و اینک او آماده می‌شود در مسابقه نبرد گرزها شرکت کند، در حالی‌که به فکر فرار از زندان و رهایی برده‌ های دیگر است.
(Last year, he likewise introduced me to another kid's classic, Stone Fox.) I'd heard of the book, but had no real clue what it was about.Elaine Konigsburg (like some other women writers in the earlier decades of the past century, when the book trade was more male-dominated, she hid her gender behind her initials) became an instant success in children's literature with this essentially debut novel.
She's a pampered, well-to-do kid who doesn't think she's pampered enough, and just wants to run off to subject her family to "a lesson in Claudia appreciation." Yes, she mailed them a letter (which they wouldn't get until at least the next day!) telling them not to worry --as if they wouldn't!
And because she wants to run away to somewhere beautiful and elegant, she chooses to run away to the NYC Metropolitan Museum of Art. They hide when the museum closes for the evening, and then have the place pretty much to themselves at night.But then Claudia and Jamie come upon a new MOMA acquisition: a lovely angel statue donated by one Mrs. Basil E.
And suddenly Claudia has found a mystery she deeply wants to solve, something that may alter her plans.It's a short, enjoyable MG story, and I've had a paperback copy of it since I was a young teen.
They must have read Konigsburg’s novel--Anderson has, certainly--for that’s exactly what Claudia and Jamie Kincaid, the leads in From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E.
With the snazzy art museum as their home-cum-playground, sister and brother make the most out of their newfound freedom, and Konigsburg, via Mrs. Frankweiler, seems to make the experience of being away from the safety and convenience afforded by home a tad too easy and pleasant for her protagonists, who attempt to live on less than twenty-five dollars and a few sets of clothes for God knows how long in the Met, an otherwise comfortable dwelling place.
There are certain, special books that I don't want to give up once finished.
By allowing Claudia and Jamie to treat not only the Met but New York City as their home and playground (and not get caught) exemplifies Konigsburg's apparent belief in how capable and astute children can be.And like all great children's literature, the book possesses a wisdom, a lesson, and a worldly vision that will benefit the reader -- young or old -- and provide him with a better understanding of his surroundings.
Why was I teary-eyed at the end of this book?
We were both full of admiration that these runaways had remembered to take their musical instruments, full kudos for keeping up the practise whilst on the run (view spoiler)[ oh it was a trick to stow away their clothes on a music lesson day (hide spoiler)]We read this as a read aloud and after the beginning which we enjoyed it went a bit flat for us.
The mystery of Angel didn't really interest either of us (view spoiler)[ it didn't interest us if Michael Angelo made the statue or someone else did really, if we liked something it would make it no more appealing to us to be made by someone famous, although we did like the way the evidence tied in with the will and why Mrs Basil.
Of course today admission is no longer free at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, no one is allowed to bring in backpacks and instrument cases, and it took me a good 20 minutes to explain to my son what a typewriter was and how it's different from a computer keyboard.
There is a terrific issue of Museum Kids available for free download on the Metropolitan Museum of Art's web site, written for kids, that includes an article written by the author about how she was inspired to write the book, as well as follow-up information to help kids find the different exhibits described in the book.
And you can feel it inside you.
They don't pause to let the vacation enter inside of them and take that home."But for engendering a sense of the mystery and magic of art, and a sense of adventure, it is exemplary.
And it's a wonderful New York book, no less today than it was in 1967."If you think of doing something in New York City, you can be certain that at least two thousand other people have that same thought.
Oh my god, I have been trying to remember this book for YEARS. When I was in elementary school, my entire grade watched the movie adaptation of this book in the auditorium together. I could not remember the name for the life of me, and I'm so happy I stumbled upon it! I MUST read this soon.
I enjoyed this one more than the kids, it's an odd little book.
But all those things work beautifully for adults and after you read it as a child all those things fall away and you just remember the magic.I related to this book as a child, myself the oldest of four children in a house that was too loud for my liking.
Neither of my children is much like Claudia, though, and it's that specific personality type that is this book's ideal reader.In fact, I may be this book's ideal reader right now, as an adult who remembers it fondly.
I rated this five stars a long time ago, out of pure nostalgia, without really remembering much about the book beyond "they stayed in the museum." Well, I just finished reading it out loud to my son, and I would just like to reaffirm: YES, five stars.
Wow they talk like real humans and have a real and wonderful relationship with each other.
Frankweiler herself as "half forensic scientist, half philosopher." She's also 100% unapologetically prickly old lady, and 100% real herself.It's so subtle, I was afraid my son would be bored or wouldn't get it, but he loved it.
I'm not sure how I missed reading this Newberry gem as a youngster, being the wordy-nerdy bookworm that I was, and still am.
Proof positive, you're never too old to change course, make a new goal, revisit your childhood, and/or correct an oversight.
I didn't relate to it as intimately as I did the The Boxcar Children.
Still though, it was a fun and exemplary good read.
FOUR **** Children's Classics that Stand the Test of Time **** STARS7/3/16 Corrected my glaring to/too typo.
Adding ---- You're never too old to correct an oversight....and admit it.
Claudia Kincaid decides to run away, but she is not the one to run away without a plan, and she is not the one to run to the woods.
And now, with a plan, she tells her brother that they are running away on Wednesday.
since it is band day, and you will find Claudia's plan enchanting and really smart.
And off they go, on their way to New York, to hide in the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Oh, yeah, this is Claudia Kincaid for you.
So that part was a bit more 3 stars for me.Overall, it is a really great book.
I honestly have no idea why, but there was something about this book (I guess the adventure?) that I absolutely loved when I was younger. Really cute story of two kids that run away to live in a museum, skirting the cops and sleeping in the priceless beds and having a series of adventures in the museum!If you like this and want more, visit my blog, Literary Cafe: www.literarycafe.weebly.com
This was a ridiculously charming little book.I think the thing that made it such a great children's book even though I'm definitely not the target audience was because I really grew to care for the main characters, Claudia and Jamie.
Reading about them getting into scrapes and going on adventures filled me with a warm and fuzzy feeling.Claudia and Jamie had a wonderful sister-brother relationship that was portrayed realistically.
When Claudia plans to run away from home, she brings her younger brother, Jamie, with her.
While it never became philosophical, Claudia and Jamie were able to bring back memories from my childhood and filled my heart with a longing for adventure.
Benim bi' tadım kaçtı.
Why did Claudia want to run away?
She picked the Metropolitan Museum of Art as her refuge, but she didn’t seem to enjoy much of the art there.
The whole story is written as if Mrs. Basil E.
The resolution of the story seemed too easy (Mrs. F already had a document that solved the mystery).
Claudia and her brother seem oblivious to the pain and fear they have inflicted on their parents.
A rather unsatisfying week spent in a museum?
What was it Claudia wanted?
I honestly can’t believe the document Mrs. F promised Claudia would satisfy her in those ways.
I defy you to tell me you didn't, at some point in your life, want to run away and live at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. E.L. Konigsburg so perfectly captures the ultimate fantasy of any child who has ever visited this amazing place so brilliantly it almost feels like I got to go too. I DEMAND that you make your children read this and yell "YOU CALL YOURSELF A BIBLIOPHILE!" at you if you haven't read it yourself.
I loved this book so much as a child and it was a pleasure to revisit it all these years later.
I didn't remember much of the story, but for some reason the one detail that stuck in my mind was how they took a bath in the fountain and used the coins that people tossed in to supplement their income.
The other thing I remember is the same feeling I had when I finished it this time: it ended too soon, I would have loved a few more details about what happened after; how did their family and friends react to the whole thing, did they really visit Mrs. BEF, etc.
One reason she has chosen Jamie, is because he is good with money.
Claudia usually spends her money on hot fudge sundaes, but Jamie has saved over twenty dollars.
Claudia plans for them to take a train to New York City, and stay in the Metropolitan Museum of Fine Arts.
They also get involved in the mystery of an angel statue, which was sold to the museum by Mrs. Basil E.
Only Mrs. Frankweiler knows for sure.
Will Claudia and Jamie get caught in the museum?
Can they find Mrs. Basil E.
I had not planned on reading this novel, but I found this book on a random book shelf in my house, so I decided to give it a go.
I feel like this is one of those books I should have read at least once sometime during my childhood, but I just never got to it.
It was pleasurable reading about the adventure that Claudia and Jamie had.
Throughout this whole novel, I couldn't help but to wonder how devastated and scared their parents must have been while they were embarking on an adventure!

Claudia and Jamie Kincaid decide to run away and live in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in NYC.
They take their instrument cases filled with clothes and Jamie's transistor radio.
They live in the museum for about a week on about $28 and some change.
It was a nice change of pace to read a story when pure innocence wins out over drama.
Feel good children's book.
I can easily see what this book is so popular.
I mean, who hasn't fantasized about running away and living in a museum?
January 1967 Birthday ReadI want to go back to 1967, where it was free admission to the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the daily New York Times cost a dime. And I want to be 12-years-old and live in the Met! This was another great read that I think I missed as a young reader. Brother and sister runaways, a little bit of a mystery, and a whole lot of art, this was a really fun read!
3.5 StarsI used to love this book as a kid- the story of two siblings who run away and stay at the Metropolitan Museum of Art was so magical to me. I'm happy to say it still holds up as an adult. I can't wait to read this to my girls when they're a bit older.
I wish I had discovered this as a child. I find it charming as an adult. At the correct age, I might have found it magical. It's a nice adventure. Somewhat didactic of course, but not overly so. I like what it says about differing values.
The book is unique and heartwarming, and I especially enjoyed the relationship between the brother and the sister, which reminded me of the spats and moments I had with my siblings as a child.
While this might not necessarily be a new concept, I believe it's portrayed in a unique enough way to give it additional credence to being a classic.
I leave you with one of my favorite quotes.After hearing Claudia pronounce that everyone should learn one new thing a day, Mrs. Basil E.
And you can feel it inside you.
