https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/666640.Theology_and_Sanity
so far its been a great book for a knowledge-seeker like myself.
7:"We can be saved and even holy without a great deal of knowledge; for holiness is in the will, and we are saved by what we love, not by how much we know.
Unless our minds have made that kind of study, then the position is that the church is living in one world (which happens to be the real world) and we are living in another.
And God takes the Devil very seriously indeed." (p.
Whatever feeble effort I provide will be lacking.I remember loving this the first time i read it.
How often can you read a major section on the Trinity and not be left dumbfounded or feeling the explanation was just not very good.
You dive into the mystery wanting to dive farther.“Sanity, remember, does not mean living in the same world as everyone else; it means living in the real world.
But some of the most important elements in the real world can be known only by the revelation of God, which it is theology’s business to study.”This theme is found in his books and he really makes the point here.
His goal is to guide man toward sanity -- toward an understanding of Reality, and toward an ability to engage that Reality; he finds this sanity within Catholicism: "This Church, more rigid than any in dogma and law, is, as no other Church ever has been, the home of every type of human being, of every nation and of every sort of peson within every nation.
Because only in the Church is man fully himself." Covered are: human and salvation histories, the nature of man, opposing philosophies, dogma, suffering, grace, eschatology, and more.

Recommended by James Schall in Another Sort of Learning, Chapter 15, as one of Twelve Collections of Lectures and Reflections.Included in the "Spiritual Reading" section of Fr. John McCloskey's 100-book Catholic Lifetime Reading Plan.Listed by Patrick Madrid in the Reading Plan of Search and Rescue in Phase 2 (Intermediate).
This is a great book by an amazingly gifted author. He tackles issues of the faith and how it is necessary to have a sound theology in order to see reality properly. He doesn't allow people to take the easy way out, but forces them to logically think through the proponents of the faith. A great read!!!
The more things change. The more they stay the same. This book could have been written last year instead of 70 years ago. Frank Sheed explains how being Catholic is the most rational approach to life and discovering your place in it
Recommended to me by a Monsignor who rightly thought that the book represented the best from basic theological introductions to Roman Catholic thought.
Sheed is an excellent explainer of Catholic doctrines.
There is a romantic element to Catholic theology that Sheed spells out here with depth of clarity.In the beginning, God is conceptually outlined with regard to the traditional beliefs or deductions of essence or existence.
Infinitude in the Godhead, creation ex nihilo, the Trinity, have brilliant explanations that when first introduced to the subject I found spell-binding.Important to note is that this is one of the first books on the subject that I read.
The Monsignor was right, this book stands the test of time.
You may think you already know the facts about the Trinity, who Jesus is, and why he came to die for us. But this book gives reasons for why those things are true, and why they are the best explanation of the evidence around us. If you want to write your own book on theology someday, start by reading this book, and you will have solid first principles on which to base your arguments.
One of my favorite books ever.I have been reading it for decades Ha HaIt really is a refreshingly sane space in a mad world.I recommend it to anyone who loves God or wants to know Him better.
Not a book that draws deep passion but one that gnaws at your soul. Deepest thoughts placed in clearest light. A slow read because you realize you fall short on each note. It drives me to want to be a better person.
This book is not necessarily for beginners but it's maybe the second or third theology book you should read. He has wonderful analogies. The end of the book isn't that great but it's definitely worth reading the first 4/5 of the book. His explanation of the Holy Trinity can't be beat.
I took my time with this book and savored it because it is such a tonic and antidote to the insanity that prevails in the wider culture. A brilliant beacon of truth to those who have eyes to see. Highest recommendation.
Necessary reading for anyone with an interest in the Catholic view of the world. All the basics are covered with depth and clarity. A good start to properly catechizing the faithful would be to get all of them to read this book. Engaging. Essential.
A more expanded, "meatier" version of Sheed's other fine work, "Theology for Beginners." A great resource for developing one's theological understanding.
Good book on theology.Has a few inconsistencies.
Brilliant and essential.
A more expanded, "meatier" version of Sheed's other fine work, "Theology for Beginners." A great resource for developing one's theological understanding.
Outstanding!
If I could give it more stars, I would.
What else can I say about a book I've read cover to cover five times over the years and am still amazed at the truth I find in it.
An excellent primer that turns Catholic theology into common sense.
thought this books was going to get down to the nitty-gritty and get some answers, but left me with asking more questions. maybe i didn't read it close enough. but it definitely got me thinking.
Father-Daughter Book Club selection #1
Not bad. Chapter 7, "Father, Son, and Holy Spirit" is worth reading twice.
Reality. That's what the book is about.
Brilliant. Like an x-ray peering into the inner realities of God and Man. To live and love in reality is sanity. So many of us choose the insanity of pride and sin. This book uncovers reality to show us that sanity leads to sanctity. Like A good meal, this book deserves time to chew on and savor. Oh, and Sheed had the best explanation of the Trinity I've ever read.
I highly, highly recommand this book. Frank Sheed is a fanastic writer whose depth of knowledge and ability to write clearly and understandably make this book so good. He gave answers to many things that I have always wondered about or not fully understood. I ended up with a deeper understand and appreciation for the Catholic Faith and a clear picture that Catholicism is Sanity.
A solid unpacking of the logical consequences of Catholic belief, and the practical implications of the Catholic worldview. Very accessible, and recommended for young Catholics going off to college, and for college students thinking about their vocations in light of becoming more mature believers.
Fantastic!!!!! A beautifully deep, thorough, and yet concise insight into the Catholic vision of reality. This book is packed with wisdom, definitions, revealing analogies, and wonderfully explained doctrine. If you want to know how Catholics view reality as a whole (as a Catholic or not), this is it.
