https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/272211.Spiritual_Depression
I didn't read all of this book, but more what pertained to me at the time.
One thing I really appreciated from Lloyd-Jones was that he didn't throw out that we all have different temperaments.
Morals don't change or anything like that, but how God works in us with our own temperaments is interesting.
Something like "I see men walking as trees..." It was about how Jesus healed the man's eyes, but the man still couldn't see just right and said "I see men walking as trees." Lloyd-Jones brings out the idea that Christ heals, yes, but sometimes it's through stages.
But given the thought-provoking and important nature of the material, the latter isn't a bad thing.After setting forth his premise that the prevalence of spiritual depression, discouragement and seeming lack of joy among Christians is one of the reasons many modern people fail to be impressed by the claims of Christianity, Lloyd-Jones uses various New Testament passages and examples to explore a wide range of reasons why Christians become discouraged and downcast, and expounds on the Scriptural answers to these problems.
This book was written in 1965 and has had a lasting impact on me. The author says that the solution to overcoming depression is to talk to yourself rather than listen to yourself. He mentions several times that you need to take yourself in hand and have a talk with yourself and remind yourself of God. I plan to use some of what he said in an upcoming book I'm writing about depression.
This book is essential for every Christian to read. This book has helped shape my faith in so many ways and I think I will continue to feel the impact of reading Lloyd-Jones words for the rest of my life. Thankful for this honest and truth-filled book!!
Spiritual Depression: Its Causes and Cure by Martyn Lloyd-Jones was a good read.
Lloyd-Jones writes with great detail, sometimes feeling very laborious, about some of the causes and cures for spiritual depression.
"Have you realized that most of your unhappiness in life is due to the fact that you are listening to yourself instead of talking to yourself?
Who is talking to you?
Your self is talking to you.
Now this man’s treatment [in Psalm 42] was this: instead of allowing this self to talk to him, he starts talking to himself.
“Why art thou cast down, O my soul?” he asks.
His soul had been depressing him, crushing him.
So he stands up and says, “Self, listen for moment, I will speak to you.”― D.
One of the most encouraging and challenging books that I have ever read. It is one of the very few books that I have reread multiple times. I have given away more copies of this book than any other... Read it slow, and let it stew in your mind
I'm about a quarter of the way through this book, but I've already learned more about God and myself than I have in reading any other Christian book.
Spiritual depression is a huge plague within the church that is destroying our joy as Christians and our ability to minister to the world.
We are quick to reach for a bottle of pills instead of reaching for the ONE that can offer true healing.
Going to a therapist and taking anti-depressants is like taking Sudafed for pneumonia.
It might make you fell better for a few days, but you're never going to be healed and will eventually die from your illness.
I read a chapter or two of this book almost every Sunday for the past couple of months. MLJ's sermons have been such a blessing. The book in a nutshell: practice your faith and rest in Christ. But you should really just read it.
I bought this book maybe 7 years ago, but didn't find the desire to read until now ...
and I really missed out on some sage advice and spiritual wisdom!This is a MUST read for every disciple of Jesus Christ's, and especially those who are afflicted with depression and those who seek to offer such counsel.
Each chapter is a self-contained sermon preached by Dr. D Martyn Lloyd-Jones and as such, they reflect the medium when originally given.
I suffer from chronic depression and will be making it a personal promise to read this book at least once every two years!A truly 5 star read!

God will use this practical and hard-hitting book to search your soul and reveal reasons you lack happiness. It will give you a desire to grow in your faith in Christ so that you will find true and lasting joy in Him. At least that is what it did for me.
One of the most helpful books I have ever read. Read it slow and take notes. I'm putting this on my shelf of books to read every few years.
This is one of the best books on the Christian life that I have ever read.
Martin Lloyd-Jones on the subject of spiritual depression, or the condition of being a downcast, dispirited Christian.
He takes the subject logically, working through a number of causes for such a condition, using stories from Scripture as case studies.
I'll definitely be getting a copy of this one--it's one of those books that I'll probably need to be reading for the rest of my life.
Live the Christian life.
Each chapter is relatively short, and he does a remarkable job of touching every "base." His focus is clearly applying the Word of God to the afflictions of the soul that commonly cause Christians to descend into gloom.
Thus, if we believe the Gospel delivers us into a life of practical holiness marked by joy (even through trial and sorrows), we ought to fight off doubt, and as he puts it, "take ourselves in hand." Every Christian can certainly benefit from this book, and I'm sure it would spark conviction and confession as well as comfort and encourage renewed diligence in seeking God. Highly commend this book to your "must read" category!
An excellent book on spiritual depression. I went through a very hard time in 2000 and felt like giving up, and then I read a chapter in the book called "The spirit of bondage", and my faith revived and I was able to look to God, once again! I thank God for Dr.Lloyd-Jones and his Spirit-filled preaching. I read the book at least a couple of times now, and have given away many copies of it to others in need of uplifting in their faith!
Refreshing in that it's a different perspective from today's Christian publishing marketing/packaging machine, but I found it best to read it one chapter at a time, not in long stretches.
At times it had a bit of a "get over it" feel, but as I got further into the book there seemed to be less of that.
Lloyd-Jones' use of the term "depression" is a bit different from what comes to mind now--while we would tend to think in terms of clinical depression or emotional struggles, he is writing about something more like a spiritual dry period.
This book was very helpful. My recommendation is to read it when you are in a happy phase of life. :) I could not have really absorbed everything if I were truly in a spiritual depression. I think it is good to be grounded and have right thinking BEFORE the crisis!The second half of the book was my favorite especially the way he deals with discipline, chastisement, and contentment. There are SO MANY good quotes - I underlined them all in red colored pencil and my copy is FULL of underlining.
Good pastoral help for someone grappling with depression. Some good challenges in there, but as always, I find Lloyd-Jones a little abrupt in places. Additionally, I'm sure this was more impressive as a sermon series where people waited week to week to hear the messages. Reading the chapters in close succession made it seem repetitive.
Biblical, Christ-centered, and practical help for dealing with spiritual depression and discouragement in the Christian life. This book has encouraged me and strengthened my faith. Highly recommended.
A timely and important read for me, and I have no doubt Who orchestrated the timing. This was definitely the right book at the right time, and I fully plan to read it again. Recommended.
You. must. read. this. book. If you want to live your Christian life to the fullest this book will definitely aid you in doing so. Fantastic!
If I had to sum up all his ideas in a sentence, I would say that it is our small view of God and His work that paralyzes us and drives us to despair.Lloyd-Jones suggests that Christians should stand out in the world for their peace and steady hope, even in great trouble.
Each time I thought I’d worked my way to the bottom of my heart, there appeared another area where I tend to twist grace or elevate self.
He spent considerable time talking through how we approach God in prayer, suggesting that we begin with worship and adoration instead of requests.
The word "depression" in the title might throw some.
This book is not about depression in the more clinical sense (although it does touch on topics relevant to that as well), but focuses on any cause of distress or unhappiness in the Christian life.
D. Martyn Lloyd-Jones does a wonderful job of laying out many causes for this as well as how a Christian ought to approach them.
The chapters were originally sermons, at least according to the preface, and it shows in places.
Nonetheless, the book tackles a hard topic with a level of wisdom and Scriptural background that would be helpful to about any believer.
In "Holy Fire" (#20 above), Kendall states that this may be his favourite book by Lloyd-Jones, and I'd have to agree that it's an amazing book!
Lloyd-Jones approaches this subject with a deep love for God's Word, a thorough understanding of its teaching on this topic, and a gentle and loving heart toward any who may struggle mightily in this area.
I found chapter after chapter enormously relevant and applicable to my own life, and was encouraged by the many Christ-centered, Word-based antidotes that Doctor Lloyd-Jones prescribed.
Lloyd-Jones defines spiritual depression as disquiet, lack of ease, tension, a troubled state.
It could include what we might call depression in the contemporary sense, but it is not only a physical state but also a spiritual/emotional state.
Spiritual depression is not a new condition, it has affected God's people in both the old and new testament.Lloyd-Jones points us toward the Gospel for how to be lifted out of this state.
I love how he uses Scripture, not to beat us over the head (pull yourself up by your own bootstraps), but to point us to God.
A simply fantastic read. Martyn Lloyd Jones wisely dissects the modern problem of "Spiritual Depression" in Christians through a series of sermons taking us through the New Testament (with the notable exception of Psalm 42). In 21 sermons, MLJ gives weight to real-world problems and meets them with pinpoint exegetical precision, seamlessly blending deep, rich theology with practicality. It's an utterly refreshing book, as so often any theological work can err too far on one side or the other. Highly recommend to ANY Christian.
Excellent book discussing depression for the ChristianI thoroughly enjoyed this book. Lloyd – Jones did an excellent job addressing the spiritual aspects that come with depression. I also like the fact that he didn't hyper spiritualize things. He speaks very directly into the point. He also spends much time expositing scripture rather than philosophizing about depression. There is great balance of what he wrote and spoke. I highly recommend this book for people battling depression or people who know of folks battling depression.
A series of sermons on depression from the great doctor.
I didn't consider myself as one who struggles with depression in the Christian life, but shortly in, the doctor had brought me to conviction in some areas.
And his diagnosis, through rigorous exposition of scripture, is phenomenal.
I recommend this as a must read for the Christian, whether you think you need it or not.
Get to it at some point.
But I only give it 4 stars because it's about twice as long as it needs to be.
The first half of the book is far better than the second half.
Such a good book. One of the best books I've read on Christians living through trials, enduring suffering, sustaining through weary labors, learning to be content, and laughing at the time to come by standing on Christ. The title might throw some off because they are not prone to depression, but I would recommend it anyone because it addresses many issues affecting the Christian life. Book was written roughly 50 years ago and it is amazing how many issues are still absolutely relevant today.
