https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24688.Cars_and_Trucks_and_Things_That_Go
An entomological deconstruction of America's obsession with speed and motion. Poses the highway as a cite of disordered exchange and anxiety. The motorist is both weeping and laughing knowing disaster is inevitable. Trucks become pickles. Pickles become trucks. Hellish.
This is an exception because I have three boys, each eight years apart, and I have probably read this books a few hundred times, including at least once a day for the last few weeks.It is amazing and awful at the same time.
It takes forever to read because it is so involved and detailed, in addition to being 70 or so pages long.
My favorite thing regarding this book, though, is when my 19yo son reads it to my 3yo -- because once a day from me is not nearly enough of Ma and Pa and Pickles and Penny Pig and all the other things that go.Sweet revenge.
Read this to both kids approximately 18 million times, looking for Goldbug on every page.Mistress Mouse and her minuscule tow truck are the unsung heroes of intricate Busytown traffic.
So I'm going to put a few books on a shelf here to remind myself, for when I need to buy books for kids.I remember reading Richard Scarry to a child I babysat for in high school, but I still let this book sit on our shelf for a while unread.
Leo spent a week obsessed with how, on the second page, Dingo Dog runs over the parking meters.
Then, he just thought it was hysterically funny that Dingo Dog was RUNNING OVER PARKING METERS!
We put money in parking meters!I haven't tried any other Richard Scarry books yet, so can't compare.
Bez względu na to czy jesteście fanami serialu "Tropiciele zagadek" czy też jeszcze go nie znacie, warto zaprzyjaźnić się z postaciami stworzonymi przez Richarda Scarry na potrzeby tej kreskówki.
"Auta, maszyny, pojazdy i wszystko do jazdy" to 68 stron bogato ilustrowanych przygód z motoryzacją i niezwykłymi maszynami, ale nie tylko :) To między innymi również odkrywanie kartka za kartką perypetii Chrząszczunia - robaczka, który bardzo sprytnie ukrywa się wśród innych postaci i pojazdów.
Kreatywność, jaką wykazał się twórca wymyślając nieszablonowe samochody, jak na przykład "ząbkowóz" czy "ogórkowóz" jest po prostu niesamowita, a zainteresowanie jakie budzą one wśród najmłodszych nieprzeciętne.
My daughter loves having this book read to her! She knows most of it by heart but still loves having it read.
I read this to my son almost every night. He loves finding goldbug on every page.
Haven't read the book we just flipped through it naming most of the cars. There is just so much in this book, we'll have to revisit it a couple times before we can finish the whole thing. :)
This is currently my 2-year-old son's favorite book, so I'm reading it every day.
I'm very proud.Here are some highlights:"bug!" - any bug, not just Goldbug."uh-oh!" - a car is on its side, or upside down."oh no!" - there is a big accident."that car" - whatever car Goldbug is in."truck!" - there are a lot of trucks.
Spoiler alert!"teeth!" - one of the cars looks like a toothbrush."draw car!" - one of the cars looks like a crayon."pig", "dog", "cat" - common sightings.In conclusion, this is a wonderful book to read to your own toddler.
But don't blame me if you read it A LOT.
This was one of the books my parents read to me and my brother when we were very young. It is interesting to see how non-linear this book is. The story is very loose, and the pages are very busy. I had a lot of fun finding Goldbug on each page. Probably the strangest thing for me was opening the book and getting a whiff of the way it smelled. It smelled the same as it did over 25 years ago. It was a surreal experience. I was looking for nostalgia and found it with this book. Good stuff.
This is our breakfast companion book, known to my son as 'huge book'. It is a 'huge' book, filled with many illustrations of Scarry's imagined (and some real) trucks, planes, trains, and vehicles of all kinds. He loves having me read the story, looking for the hidden 'Goldbug' in each page spread, and coming up with his own names for the vehicles. Lots to look at, like most of Scarry's books, so we spend a lot of time with it. This was originally a library pick, that got renewed a few times, then finally purchased!
This book is a delight, surprising in its level of real humor. The ambience created by the diverse cars on the highway and the scenes that they pass is something special, and I find that this Richard Scarry book holds up very nicely over time. My family and I have been determinedly searching for Goldbug in these pages from as far back as I can remember. This book is inextricably tied to a lot of good memories for me, but it stands up quite well independent of those memories, too.
My five year old can find Gold Bug better than me, and I am assuming it is due to some sort of childhood golden innocence, and that when she gets jaded and has a few dreams crushed, the little guy will get harder and harder to see until he finally disappears on the page.Nothing Gold Can Stay(?) I will do my best to help the golden critter of wonder stay in both of our lives.
There is no better book to read with a child than this. Lay down on your tummies and flip through the pages, looking for Goldbug and enjoying the trip along with the Pig family. It's fun to point out different things going on on the wildly busy pages! Thank heaven for Richard Scarry!
Love it.
i love this book!!!
[Ba]nana! Bus! Bus! Choo-choo!
I spent hours reading this to my kids. In case you didn't know, gold bug is on every busy page. A wonderful book to read to a curious toddler to pre-schooler.
It was awesome when I was four and read it every single night.
We are always looking for Goldbug, but what is Goldbug looking for?
I remembered this one from childhood, and my kid also loves it. Lots to look at and talk about on each page. And of course finding Goldbug is fun!
My kids have actually been interested in the classic Richard Scarry books for years.
Sight words and short sentences are well-aided by simply drawn illustrations set against a plain white background.Kids familiar with Busytown will feel right at home in this exploration of the trucks and cars.
The plot is thin and not really the point, but my son enjoys seeing what the Pig family is getting up to with each page turn.Like other Richard Scarry titles, Cars and Trucks and Things that Go has been updated over the years to be less sexist.
The review above is part of a longer post on books for kids who really love trucks: https://www.lineupthebooks.com/20-boo...
This was my absolute favorite book to read when I was a child.
As a picture book, this was absolutely delightful.
There's just so many little details, secrets, and easter eggs packed in a 70-page picture book that I absolutely adored.
I wish I still have this copy to share with my future children but alas, I think I lost the book a long time ago.
Any of you already with children of your very own, I URGE YOU TO PICK UP A COPY OF THIS BOOK.
I will most definitely be tracking down a copy once I have a child of my own.
Hi everyone! I'm working for a Russian website dedicated to children's books and children's reading. We've been building the English version of the website and recently published an article on Cars, Trucks and Things That Go. The author talks about how he uses a book to read to his kids with a two-year age difference. Here's the link if you want to check it out: http://www.papmambook.ru/articles/3182/And if you click on "Papmambook in English" above the article, you can see the rest of the site in English. (less)
Getting a present for my smol housemate's birthday, and this instantly came to mind...doesn't disappoint on re-reading. Full of exuberant, detailed drawings labelling everything from realistically rendered machinery to full-on fantasy in the form of pickle trucks and corn cars. The humour is fabulous, the dramatic changes of scene on every turn of the page are endlessly creative, and I love the continuity and drama provided by Officer Flossy, Mistress Mouse, the pig family, and Goldbug. We'll see how much I love it if my smol housemate ends up liking it as much as me...
Personally, I'm not overawed with this book, but my 2 1/2 year old is absolutely obsessed with it! And who's to argue with a toddler? There are a gazillion creative illustrations, with equally whacky snippets to go with them. This makes for hours (yes, I said hours) of 'reading', observing new nuances every time you see a page. As for me, I'd rate anything that enamors a toddler for more than 5 minutes a solid 5 stars!
My son is working through the book list from Memoria Press Preschool and this is a brilliant one in the list. He's listening, not reading but this book is ideal for him. The chunky shape, the things that go theme, the loveable Richard Scarry characters from my own childhood. Wonderful. Bought for our preschool box of books.
Surprisingly this book is too silly for us right now - as my almost-two-year old is still learning about "real" vehicles, he doesn't seem to appreciate the whimsical or unusual ones found in the book, and there's too much going on to tackle. We'll revisit.
A classic from my childhood. Boys love it too.
In this book each letter from the alphabet is used to name a type of car. Great for learning new vocabulary!
