https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22304.Life_After_God
The greatest works of art are going to be distinctly flawed in some way, represented by their limitations as much as their transcendent qualities, and it is of course our experience with that piece of art that matters most; a dynamic & breathing thing, largely independent of how pristine the work itself is.I'm not sure why this tirade is coming up in my first write-up of Douglas Coupland's work, except for this: This is a distinctly flawed book, and it is far from his "best" work in many ways (Microserfs is an easy favorite, for me) and in many ways Coupland's work is distinctly flawed as a whole.
"Now: I believe that you've had most of your important memories by the time you're thirty.
After that, memory becomes water overflowing into an already full cup.
New experiences just don't register in the same way or with the same impact.
I could be shooting heroin with the Princess of Wales, naked in a crashing jet, and the experience still couldn't compare to the time the cops chased us after we threw the Taylors' patio furniture into their pool in the eleventh grade.
(I don't remember the correct format for citing a quote, because my memory cup already runneth over...)
Tried re-reading this the other day, and I just couldn't get myself back into it.
All that Meaning-with-a-capital-M that seemed to be there when I was in my late teens/early 20s seemed a bit absent, so I stopped before I could completely ruin my good memories of this book.
It's best to let angsty dogs lie, I suppose.Come to think of it, maybe this is why I have such a hard time getting into a lot of Coupland's work that has come out since I graduated college.
Maybe when you finally have some direction in your life, or can at least fake it half-decently on the phone to your parents, there isn't enough *there* there anymore?
this book is why i like reading, because it takes you to a different place and helps you put perspective on your life or understand some things that you just couldnt grasp alone.a book like this is like a friend.
the last story in that story made me cry and also want to have a goose as a friend for a year and a day.life is a fucked up strange thing, a series of chances that you take and turn away from.
and every day after it.-just as good on the second reading, sometimes even better.
I have been told—and have read—that this book will change my life.
I do not doubt Coupland's ability to write.
His prose is simple, but not spare, always divulging just enough to create the right impression—though his characters all sound alike as a result.
But the pervasive road weary tone of voice, the wary (and hyperaware) disillusionment, began to grate on me.
This is not a bad book, and for those in the right state of mind or stage of life it may be a great book.
Though at times Coupland's stories were touching, for the most part it all seemed to hip to be sincere.
Still further, he shows you that even though you have no faith in anything (not just religious doctrine), that you've lost your capacity for wonder and enthusiasm, that you're counting down the days to your inevitable death, there's still hope and beauty in life waiting to be discovered if you can just raise yourself from the half-waking existence inflicted upon you by years of moving and breathing and hiding within a society that conspires to keep you ball and chained.“Time ticks by; we grow older.
I don't want to ruin a single story for you when you read this book.
Those aren't the interesting part of the story.
The interesting part is the real true to life slices that Coupland shows us.
The stories aren't always actually real.
There's some with a slight sci-fi bent to them but at the same time told in the simplest and realistic way possible that I have to fight to remember that there's simply no way that some of these stories can actually happen.
Years ago a friend was sick and I was taking care of her and I happened to have this book with me to lend to her.
I read this first one summer long ago, sitting between jobs in a small apartment in Birmingham AL.
That was a summer when I'd stay up all night reading or scanning through cable channels and go out to a breakfast buffet at a diner just before dawn and exchange aimless conversation with other people who weren't sleeping and had no daytime lives.
Put simply--- I fell in love with the stories Coupland tells here.
I was in the same stories.
Years later--- too many years later ---I still love this book.
There's a lovely sad wistful grace in Coupland's stories here, and a gentleness that's unexpected.Read this during lost summers.
Read it when your apartment is a haven for ghosts.
Each one has a unique voice, a set of interesting problems unique to their position and place in life, and a way of looking at the contemporary world that makes the reader stop and question things that might other slip beneath our notice.
Moreover, I’m looking for two things: hilarious or somehow profound quotable passages, and a keen use of character to look at culture in a slightly bizarre way.All that said … this is not your typical Coupland.Firstly, Life After God is a collection of short stories.
I’m not ready to call Life After God one of Coupland’s best works.
Life After God is a collection of short stories written in blocks of 2 or 3 paragraphs per page, large font, with a single child-like illustration accompanying it.
I've had similar conversations with friends I was close with who I've met at a wedding of a mutual friend or who I've met up with at a bar for a drink, and we've talked about who we were, who we are, and where we hope we're going.
Life After God though is a misfire.
It's got the ideas and the scenes of his other books, Eleanor Rigby and Generation A, minus the humour and plot.
Just because of this, it's worth it:“And then I felt sad because I realized that once people are broken in certain ways, they can't ever be fixed, and this is something nobody ever tells you when you are young and it never fails to surprise you as you grow older as you see the people in your life break one by one.
You wonder when your turn is going to be, or if it's already happened.” Or this...“We are changed souls; we don't look at things the same way anymore.
But then the worst happened, did it not?
I don’t think I’ve ever read a book that has polarized different aspects of my self as much as this one has, my first Douglas Coupland book.
These stories, which appeared primarily in the first half of the book, were forgettable and I kept thinking to myself that I would rather have had Coupland just write a collection of essays.
His characters long to recapture that awe, that time where real feeling was as common as breathing, but find that they can’t do so in their self-created societal prisons.
I always feel like I should give him "one more chance" since I know so many people who really love his books, but it seems I'm always disappointed.
I spent the past couple of days reading Life After God on the train, and yet again, it just didn't do anything for me.I feel like Coupland's books have all the shape of being intellectual or philosophical without any of the substance.
I get the impression that most people who love Coupland first read him when they were pretty young, so maybe I just started in on these books too late?
Ever go to a yard sale, spend hours sifting through someones discolored underwear and cracked 'worlds best golfer' coffee mugs only to realize the gem of the sale turns out to be a scratched Led Zepplin album that you've heard a thousand times before? Yeah? Then avoid this book, you've already had the pleasure.
Deeply moving, and impressively depressing. In the end you're honestly left thinking about your own life and beliefs.Very interesting read.
For me, this book was almost unrelievedly depressing, though I know some people disagree with me on this point.
On the other hand, I think this is an important book, and a very valuable one -- a story that needs to be heard by religious and non-religious people alike.
For people living "post-God" lives, I think it will be thought-provoking.Coupland sets out to paint a picture of "life after God," and it seems to me that he succeeds.
The book is full of characters who are longing for something, searching for something, but they don't know what.
I have all his books and while I was going through the Nerd Cave and decluttering I became a bit nostalgic and wanted to go back and read the books that meant the world to me growing up.
I decided to read this book because I have this permanent memory of this book speaking to me during a certain phase in my life.
I feel like this book was part of a moment in my life that should not have been tampered with.
The second reading of this book did not speak to me the way it once did.
Same characters struggling with the same issues as in every Coupland novel, but the small pockets of hope, the tiny observations about the greater bits of life and meaning, are so raw and powerful that the characters don't matter.
I remember thinking that unless I knew what was going on inside of someone else's head other than my own I was going to explode."While the bulk of the book is about a character -- maybe multiple characters -- struggling with the belief in a higher power, it's much more about the struggle with finding meaning and purpose with one's own life beyond the place they're at at any given time.
One day later: Actually screw it this deserves five stars, I was hesitant because it's a harrowing experience to binge read the stories but they deserve all five.
Also I forgot to mention that more than the gloom of OK Computer the stories reminded me of early Modest Mouse (pre-The Moon and Antarctica): there's driving on empty interstates and stuff, and the setting is the Pacific Northwest, and there's the sense of sadness with some sense that maybe, possibly, things could get better.This was really good; the only reason it doesn't get 5 stars is because it's so depressing.
Perhaps this wasn't good to binge-read during a dark rainy morning.Anyway, this thematically follows up from  Generation X, but strips away the humor and leaves you with the sincere desperation.
A nostalgic trip down 90s lane (How 90s is this book?
One of the stories is dedicated, without irony, to Michael Stipe of R.E.M., a rock band that was once the biggest in the world, of some renown and remains a major influence on the bands that influence the bands of today - like, remember ten years ago when MySpace was the new Athens, Georgia?) via a series of well-written, sometimes-sad and sometimes-humorous (i.e. well-balanced), short stories from the hand of the Original Voice of Generation X, the author of Generation X, Douglas Coupland.
I know he's on Twitter and has written some book reviews, but isn't that where we all ended up?
Este fue un libro muy criticado, pero a mi me gustó muchísimo.Al igual que las demás obras de Coupla
Reading this book twenty years later and I'm perplexed why my teenage self was reading books about the plight of thirty something adulthood.
Coupland has an ease with language that is only able to be classified as,"cool".
I believe this book has been under discussed and overly criticized.
It's physically small and has fragmented paragraphs with small illustrations that just make you want to love to hate it.
The book itself is part of the irony.
Life after God investigates the right questions but the characters, as we all are, are flawed.
Coupland gave me the freedom to get lost in the questioning and enjoy the place in-between.
Coupland is at his best when he writes on the spiritual.
This book is a collection of short stories about various Gen-Xers living a life after god, as part of the first generation raised without any religion.
Each are very profound, and all of Coupland's weakenesses as a writer-the cutesiness and hipster lingo, the product placement in place of character development, the faux-Kerouac prose-are nowhere to be found.
Just simple, melancholy stories about how we really do need god to connect to something greater than ourselves.It's an excellent book which resonates more as you age.
I can't recommend it highly enough.
As Gen. X was exciting to read, being amazed by the connection of similar feelings and experiences of youth, L.A.G. was rather like comparing notes on the challenges of life at a high school reunion.
The end has a little kernel of hope, and as with so many of the experiences and characters in the book, I had a remarkably similar naturo-mystical water thing only days before I read it.
Perhaps I only give it a "C" is because it was rather like taking a magazine checklist quiz that you don't want to have a high score in, but...
-Algunos deben caminar portando una pesada cruz que ellos mismos han construido.- Género. Novela.Lo que nos cuenta. Conjunto de breves ¿relatos? ¿capítulos? ¿reflexiones? ¿entradas de un diario? ¿recuerdos? ilustrados, que cuando se toman como un todo nos relatan los pensamientos y preguntas que el solitario protagonista tiene en su cabeza y a los que no puede dejar de dar vueltas.¿Quiere saber más del libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
2007 wrote: Here Coupland follows many impressive characters through the last days of the world. It is his short prose that makes this work so appealing. A very easy read, but intensely powerful emotions are evoked. It begs to make the reader question where he or she will be when it's all done. What state physically, emotionally, mentally, spiritually will one be. The characters run the gambit of possibilities and most having reflected back after death tell their stories rather calmy, for all the dread is gone, but it is remembered. A very poignant work. Gut wrentching and provacative.
This was an interesting little read. Formatted almost like a tween book where you get some little visual incentive and the stories remain short to address the short attention span. And this guy really writes form the standpoint of someone who never experienced life without a TV or media around him except for camping trips because his narration has that "flavor" to him. So its always a ongoing ride with him. I don't know if I always "get" him, but I like to read him regardless as it takes me outside my comfort zone.
This book meandered, and I think Coupland was attempting to tackle some big issues here, but it just didn't work for me. The section describing the nuclear meltdown scenarios was overlong, and in the end the book just didn't gel. It also felt too much like a memoir to call it a novel, but I guess the names were changed to protect the innocent, or something like that.
Early Coupland is actually pretty decent, and this was real early. The part about living in a cheap hotel for a year, with its portraits of the other residents, really stands dramatically out. Less so the more overtly spiritualized parts.
whaooo how could everything about life that you thought was impossible to capture be captured so well in words!!!!!!!!!jiefjuej first ballot HOF for me.
