https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6526906-piglet-is-entirely-surrounded-by-water-storybook
I mean, I love winnie-the-pooh and friends, but I'm unsure of the necessity of printing each chapter as a separate book. I guess for small hands to carry around, but then why not use a larger print so small people might read it?
This is a nice simplification of Milne for very young children; my daughter loved it when she was 2 1/2 or so, still too young to care for the longer versions of the story. I particularly like that the illustrations are the old ones (not Disney), chosen with an eye to making the story make sense. Now that she is older we will be moving on to the full story, but these were a very good introduction, and Milne's prose (even abridged) is quite pleasant for reading out loud 87 times.
Pictures by Ernest H. Shepard complement the text by A. A. Milne. In this delightful story, Piglet is aware that he needs help from his friends. He enumerates what each friend would do if caught in the same situation, i.e., stranded by heavy rains. Christopher Robin, Pooh, Kanga, Rabbit, Owl, and Eeyore would cope in different ways.Piglet demonstrates resourcefulness by sending a message in a bottle.
This softcover book is actually chapter nine of Milne's Winnie-the-Pooh classic. The book has the story in 30 large-print pages with vivid illustrations in color. An easy way to entertain and teach a youngster, even one young-at-heart.
Part of the original Winnie the Pooh Treasury set I got when my oldest was born. They are longer than the board books we have featuring Pooh and his friends, but are still great for young children.
I had not heard of this tale for a Pooh book before. I did not know that this was an original story by A.A. Milne. I feel that this story is not as interesting or clever as the other classic Pooh stories. However, this book still has very good illustrations.
"I must find Christopher Robin or one of those Clever Readers."
Adorable is the best way to describe Milne's adventure in the Hundred Acre Wood.
such a cute tale of piglet.
Perfect little book of one story from Winnie the Pooh.
The classic story of a very rainy day, and a great time spent with Pooh, Piglet, and Owls (but I think Owl is more enjoyable to me than the little one.)
currently-reading
