https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/280849.Final_Curtain
I've read just about everything Christie put out, and quite a bit of Marsh's oeuvre, and while I like Marsh's work, it doesn't seem to be any better than Christie's.
I got the references to Cedric being a pouf (and I realize that when this was written, in 1947, Marsh would not have been able to come right out and say Cedric was gay), but there are a number of other instances where I felt like everyone else was in on the joke and I was left out.
When a book is written in the 1940's it can be expected to have the prejudices of the day, but this one had the trifecta of comments about Jews, black people and a character who embodied all of the most offensive gay stereotypes. All this stood out in sharp relief because the plot was not that interesting, and all the characters were horrible. The murder was not even convincing.
It has been a long time since I read a Marsh mystery. This one has wit and humor but is a little too twee. It also has way too many characters introduced in a rapid-fire info dump at the beginning of the book. I found it impossible to keep them, and their relationships, straight. If I had read this 40 years ago I probably would have liked it a lot more, but I’ve moved on from house party murders.
But it was a lot of fun to read.This Alleyn installment has a group of vivid characters, representing the steady growth in fiction-writing that I am seeing as I work my way through the series.
But each person in this isolated country house is quite individual, and not like any previous Marsh character.Alleyn's wife, Agatha Troy, comes to life a lot more here than in any previous book.
Yes, it would be preferable to have a more nuanced portrayal of gay life, but in the oppressive world of the 1940's, I would think aside from individuals like Cedric, gay life was essentially invisible to outsiders.Anyway, this is a good mystery, well-written and well-crafted.
I don't think I'll ever get bored of a good mystery: Christie, Tey, and Marsh being my favorite authors.
Famous painter Agatha Troy has three weeks to wait for the return of Detective Chief Inspector Roderick Alleyn from four years’ service in New Zealand during the Second World War as Ngaio Marsh’s Final Curtain opens.
She gets invited (well, pretty much commanded) to go to Ancreton, the home of Sir Henry Ancred to paint the old actor in his most famous role as Macbeth.
After initially turning the “great man” down, Troy gives in and travels to the castle to paint the man’s portrait.
More enjoyable than the last few because of the reunion in London of Alleyn with Fox and, of course, Troy. I hadn't realized that Alleyn's wartime duties had taken him away for three years or more. Marsh's interest in the theater and fine arts continues in the setting.
Just as Troy is expecting him back any day, she receives an extremely pressing invitation: distinguished actor Sir Henry Ancred wishes to commission her to paint his portrait at his family seat, Ancreton.
This invitation is occasioned by Sir Henry receiving the (inaccurate) news that the nation commissioned Troy to paint a portrait of one of his friends and rivals.Truth to tell, though he may have been a magnificent actor, Sir Henry's talent could never have matched his conceit.
This gives us the typical Golden Age mystery setting of a huge country house full of eccentric people who don't like each other.
The perfect place for a murder.At about the half way point, the Inspector returns to England and becomes embroiled in the murder investigation.
Some reviewers didn't like this book because they found the Ancred's unlikable, but that's the point, really.
Troy and Roderick may behave like real people, but the rest of the cast is there to provide victims and suspects.
4.5 stars, but I thought I'd round up, because it's a high point in the series.
Hearing about this one made me come back to this series.
Some of the character moments are quite good within the family, and between the family and Troy.
I like Alleyn and Troy both struggling with worries about a reconciliation (and whether they will feel the same way) after 3+ years apart.
I also like where they end up re: Alleyn feeling like he can discuss the case with her, without it raising unpleasant associations from her.
This is my first Marsh novel and even coming late to the series it was easy to get the hang of the central characters.
I also enjoyed learning about the process of portrait painting.Unlike others here I enjoyed the whole married couple reuniting after the war subplot (perhaps because I'm married to somebody who is away for work regularly?) but even if you dislike that, it's easy enough to skip.If you enjoy Golden Age British detective fiction you should enjoy this one.
Troy is one of my favourite characters (in and out of the Alleyn mysteries) and so her tale, among the over-dramatic Ancreds, is engrossing for me, and it's nice to see her and Alleyn settle some of the 'business' of being married, of working out how to be together.The real oddity of this story for me is that it's a Troy story which involves a beautiful and morally bereft woman called Sonia.
Given that Troy's introduction involved the murder of the beautiful and morally bereft Sonia Gluck, I found the use of the name again very distracting, particularly as neither Troy nor Alleyn commented on it, even when discussing how to deal with his job.Without the time spent in Troy's life, this book would probably be a 3 star, but she lifts it for me.
While this is an interesting mystery by one of my favorite authors, I found myself extremely irritated with a couple of the characters. One is a young man who is just too precious for words and the other is a child who is called "Panty". That's probably one of the most horrible nicknames anyone could have, especially in a novel. The plot is fairly interesting, but most of the secondary characters are pretty obnoxious. 'Nuff said.
Like a lot of parlor mysteries, this one pursues a logic all its own. Well, not quite all its own -- it's pretty heavily influenced by the dodgy psychological insights of the day, even while it thinks it's mocking them. And yet it's a very comfortable tale with familiar and colorful characters, and I was a bit disappointed when it came to its (more or less arbitrary) end. So I suppose I "really liked it."
I had read it a couple times before and was pretty sure I remembered who the murderer was, which removed some of the immediacy.
Troy has been commissioned to paint a portrait of an old actor, Sir Henry Ancred.
She goes to Sir Henry's huge home Ancreton, and finds that he wants to be painted in one of his famous roles, as Macbeth.
After she goes home, her husband Rory returns and is asked to look into Sir Henry's death, since a number of anonymous letters have been received saying there is a murderer in the house.
It's important to remember, if you haven't the context, that Alleyn was sent to New Zealand for his war work, and Troy was in England doing hers, so they were apart 3 years.
And remember, you couldn't really phone NZ from UK at that point - calling from one part of the country to another required a live operator and a waiting period for an open line.
It's well worth a read - and if you aren't reading the whole series, you might want to read Artists in Crime first, the 6th in the series, which is the book where Roddy and Troy first meet.
Alleyn is detached, sophisticated and expensively educated.It is early November and Troy has been invited to Ancreton Manor to paint to paint the portrait of seventy-five famed Shakespearian actor Sir Henry Ancred as Macbeth which she reluctanly accepts.
Meanwhile, her husband, Roderick Alleyn has been on the other side of the world for over three years doing secret war work is finally returning home.Troy arrives at a very uncomfortable family house party celebrating Sir Henry”s 75th birthday.
It is not long before Sir Henry is dead and the waters are muddied by the family’s difficult child who is constantly playing pranks.
tl;dr: If Troy could keep tripping over bodies, that'd be great.Before Alleyn and Troy and Peter and Harriet, I was firmly against detectives marrying.
Troy, though, is written as a fully formed human being with her own capabilities and interests that occasionally trips into her husband cases, as is proper, and the only way this reader could be any more satisThis mystery, while not entirely predictable, was nevertheless pretty standard with strongly dislikeable characters.
Troy is what bumps it up to a four star for me.
I do enjoy a good country house whodunit but I'm starting to have a problem with some of Marsh's solutions.
This is the second one of hers I have read recently where most of the characters are upper class and frankly horrible.
The only two characters who are NOT aristocrats are one person who is "rather common" and gets murdered and one who is "rather too MC" (presumably Middle Class) and turns out to be the murderer (excluding servants of course, but they Know Their Place).
The previous one I read was almost exactly the same.
And of course Alleyn himself is an aristocrat.
I am reading my way through the series, with great pleasure in the writing.
Winter branches are “the scaffolding of summer.” A 2018 book about the 1940’s would have a lot right, but would be a bit cleaned up for contemporary readers’ sensibilities.
This 1947 book is of the time with the attitudes of the time.
One line leaped out at me for its casual use.
Alleyn says, “That’s the colour of the nigger in the woodpile, isn’t it?” I remember hearing my father use that phrase without self-consciousness in about the 1950’s.
I love Ms. Marsh's golden-age mysteries, which often include incisive observations on art and theater, two of her favorite realms. The dotty family in this one is a bit over the top, and the caricature of a gay man strikes a bit of a wrong note by current standards, but I enjoy Troy Alleyn and seeing her navigate the rocky shoals of reuniting with her husband after three years of separation during the war.
This is probably one of my favorite Ngaio Marsh novels... it contains a lot of elements that I enjoy in a mystery: the large mansion, the suspicious family, and lots of uncertainty. By the end I had no idea who the guilty party was and the big reveal was honestly a shock. Plus, one of the characters is nicknamed Panty. C'mon now... what's not to love?
2 1/2 stars. The mystery I thought was good but the histrionics of many of the characters were just too much. They seemed caricatures at times.Overall, I would call it average. I would weigh more in favor of the mystery part of the book than the characters which is usually a strong point for Marsh.
3.75 stars.Not as simple as the previous Marsh books I’ve read, and with enough intricacy for me to give this one a higher rating than I have in the past. However, I didn’t like the fact that the murder happened only 2/5 of the way through. I like my murders more immediate.
One of her best. No idea who did it.
Read the entire series. Very enjoyable!
Though this has a theatre title, this is more of a country house drama. I enjoyed the envolvement of Troy.
The murder plot isn't very convincing but the book is written well.
I really enjoy this addition to this series. The first half of the book is told from Troy's perspective, which was an enjoyable change of pace. It was a fun, clever story too.
Pretty good, but not amazing.
