https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/468116.The_Wheel_on_the_School
I adore this book.
It’s like coming up for a breath of fresh air after being stuck underwater.
I think that each and every one of us could use a break of this kind.
In this busy, busy world we live in we never take a second to smell the roses.
We’re too busy worrying about our cars, our relatively slow internet, getting into college, broken iPods, going on dates, the latest fashion in clothes, being accepted… And here is a group of school kids who are worried about whether or not storks come to their village.
The simplicity of this book is golden.
The beauty of these older Newberry winners is their innocent simplicity. The story was simple- children in a small town trying to entice storks to nest on the roof of their school. It really didn't stray much from that. It was, I felt, a refreshing break from the adolescent drama so common to the more recent Newberry winners. I really enjoyed the characters particularly the elderly poeple that the children came to know and love. This was a beautiful, unassuming story that I enjoyed very much.
Not only does she long to participate in the boys' outdoor games, but she is the inspiration for the big school project of luring the storks back to the village, and when something needs to happen, she's usually the one who makes it so.This book was Newbery Medal winner of 1955, written in America by an American author who remembered his Dutch childhood and brought the Netherlands to life for generations of readers.I had many opportunities to read this as a child but never did.
I remember reading and loving this Newbery award-winner from Holland about children in a tiny fishing village on the Dutch coastline and it's still great.
The whole town pitches in and everyone gets to know each other in a different way, but yet it's not cloying, it's inspiring.
And it's so satisfying when they finally achieve their goal.What I was surprised by was how much of a period piece the book was though it was only written in 1956.
This rubbed me the wrong way though it is obviously true to period.
One of the joys of teaching is getting to reread old friends. This one must be read in short sections butit is a wonderful story of life in community.
Perhaps if everyone put a wheel on their roofs the storks would come back.
Time is running out before the storks return to their familiar nesting places.
Promising to cancel school for the day if storks land in Shora, Teacher sets the children on a quest to find a wheel.
Will the storks come to Shora?
Opening it again, I did not remember what it was about until I read about Lina's composition on storks.
The newspaper article made me sad, like the children, and also because it sounds like these storks may have been endangered.
The children (and I!) all thoroughly enjoyed this book. The language and imagery where rich and flowed smoothly and with a nice cadence too. "It's so impossibly impossible, I can believe it now."
Things that to an adult are "little" or "unimportant" can be huge to a child.The children of Shora feel that something is missing--there are no storks on their roofs!
Life is not perfect in little Shora--there isn't much to do (particularly if you're the only girl in the school), and all the children have to deal with their fears--of drowning, of heights, of dogs, of fierce Janus, the mean neighbour in a wheelchair.
As they learn to face their fears and find ways to bring storks to Shora, they learn about getting along in their time and place--with each other, the smaller kids, and adults.
I'd read his "Journey to Peppermint Street" a million years ago, and the illustrator Maurice Sendak recently passed away, so it seemed fitting to read this one recently, even though I'm ...
At some point near the end, I couldn't believe how much I was enjoying a book about storks, of all things!
It's on the Northern corner of Holland, and has two streets.
It was SO easy to picture what was happening in this book because that town was the stuff of my memories.Loved the interaction with the older people, loved the boys, loved the schoolteacher, Janus, ....
قصه ای شیرین و دوست داشتنی، پر از هیجان های کودکانه..هر چند در سال های اخیر کتاب های کودک و نوجوان زیاد خوندم ولی پس از سال ها با این کتاب دوباره یادم اومد که کتاب خوندن در کودکی چه جوریه...اگر به وقتش خونده بودم حتما یکی از کتاب های محبوب کودکیم می شد.
از بذت بخشترین ومعصومانه ترین رمانهاییست که خواندهام. داستان چند بچهی روستایی که برای برگرداندن لکلکها به روستایشان تلاش میکنند. ترجمهی روانش کمک بی نظیری به خوانش رمان مرده. کتاب را در نوجوانیام هدیه کرفتم و خواندم. بارها. و اشارتی است بر دوران اوج انتشارات کانون پرورش فکری کودکان و نوجوانان
از بذت بخشترین و‌معصومانه ترین رمانهاییست که خوانده‌ام. داستان چند بچه‌ی روستایی که برای برگرداندن لک‌لک‌ها به روستایشان تلاش میکنند. ترجمه‌ی روانش کمک بی نظیری به خوانش رمان مرده. کتاب را در نوجوانی‌ام هدیه کرفتم و خواندم. بارها. و اشارتی است بر دوران اوج انتشارات کانون پرورش فکری کودکان و نوجوانان
This is a darling story about a group of children living in a tiny Holland village trying to encourage storks to settle in their town.
Auka's interaction with the tin-man is my favorite.*** SPOILER ***I was a little bit disturbed by the number of times children and adults alike were willing to risk their lives to get the wheel and the storks.
Eelka didn't know he was risking his life when he tied the wheel around his waist and pushed it out the second story window, but the other instances were instigated by adults.
Sending Pier out in the rising tide to get the storks alone?
After reading this book, I can see the depth of the characters, the actions, and suspense.
Please read this book for yourself or even better yet read aloud to your kids.
Though I've been told that the read aloud is better done for students from third grade and up.
Though, I don't see why not read it to a first grader.
I may have to break it down and it will take longer to read through.
There are first graders who need to hear that it's okay to make mistakes and how we can learn from them as well as fix the hurt done.
I was delighted to find that not only does this book age very well, but it also joins Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH as one of the very few books in which the antagonist is a problem or situation rather than a human.
The plot really is as simple as it sounds: the students want to put a wagon wheel on their school so that they can get storks to roost there.
Problem-solving ensues.
I found it refreshing and compelling to see a group of students carefully, scientifically work their way through the problem-solving process without some kind of cheesy moral oversimplification shoehorned in.
A friend was just asking for recommendations for a book for her just-turned-11 daughter, and I thought I'd send her to goodreads to read my recommendation for this book.
Imagine my surprise when one of my favorite books was not on my list!
The Wheel on the School is a wonderful book about things being made right.
As they begin to imagine answers, they begin to see their own community with new eyes, and wonderful things begin to happen.At times hilariously funny, this book is a great read-aloud for the whole family.
I love kids books where the dialogue is realistic, and the characters of the grown-ups are also realistic.
It's not contrived, it's not "goody goody" adults, it's REAL people.
This story of the little schoolchildren in the Dutch town of Shora is so endearing.
There are such lessons to be learned here: people aren't always what they seem (Old legless Janus isn't really a mean man), and the value of hard work and working together (the tin man, the old man Evert, fishermen fathers) and accomplishing something so everyone benefits.
My kids will definitely read this one!
This man is my all-time favorite fiction author. Reminiscent of CS Lewis in his child-like spirit. The old Dutchman tells the captivating story of how the children of Shora work to bring storks to nest on the roof of their school. A picture of old world Holland. The moral of the tale: you can become friends with just about any human (no matter their age), if you give it a chance.
Loved this book! It's charming and original, and the surprises keep coming. DeJong uses everything to keep up the tension: the main characters, the entire village, an itinerant tinsmith, the weather, geography - he's ingenious. And the little brush-and-ink illustrations by Maurice Sendak are marvelous!
اول نجمة او درجة خسرتها الرواية او القصة انها مكانتش بالدرجة اللي تخليني اخلصها بسرعة ، غير كده القصة مقبولة كتقييم ! قصة اطفال يب بس طويلة ع اطفال ده من ناحية و من ناحية تانية يمكن ملهاش غير هدف او هدفين من ال300 و شويه صفحة ! تقييم عام ع القصة مقبولة ، لا بأس بها ! و مش محتاجه تفكير كتير =)
MCL. I thought I wouldn't like it, but then I did.

Newbery Medal Winner--1955This was an enjoyable little read about Dutch children trying to bring storks back to nest in their hometown. There are some lovable characters (grouchy but misunderstood Janus, Grandmother Sibble) and some great action-filled scenes (trying to get the wheel from under the boat, saving the storks). One of the few older Newbery winners that have kept me somewhat engaged.
Loved the narrative voice. A feel good story of Holland. Terrific teacher working with a class of 6 students gets things moving after Lina reads her little stork report. All the people of Shora, young and old, work to get that wheel and lure those storks.
Adored it! This is a perfect read-aloud for families.
Not bad, just... boring.
She carefully reads it aloud, wondering to her fellow students about the lack of storks in their seaside Holland town.
In school the next day, the children decide that there are two reasons the storks have gone from Shora.
Realizing that planting trees will take years and years, the students set off on a mission – search all of Shora for a wagon wheel to place on top of their school.
The Wheel on the School, a potential read-aloud for young children, paints a portrait of life in Holland, of determined children, and of the majestic stork itself.
The teacher encourages the children to wonder about why the storks do not build their nests in the small fishing town of Shora while one town over in Nes, the storks arrive every year.Little by little the children come to the conclusions that the storks are not in Shora due to the lack of trees, and the fact that there are no wagon wheels on the sharp roofs of their houses and schools.
Teacher tells the students to try to find a wheel for the top of the school house.
My niece and her family read this book together.
(I have to claim some responsibility since it was my daughter that lost the hat).
While reading this book, she found her answer.
The teacher assigns all the students to find a wheel, "look where a wheel could be and where it could not possibly be." After hearing this from the book, my niece knew what she should do for discover the hiding place for the hat.
I recommend this book for anyone who is looking for a fun, easy read.
This is also a great read aloud book for families.
Several years ago, my not-so-evil twin Trish recommended this Newbery Medal winner, which honestly, I'd never heard of, much less read.
I really liked it a lot and would add my recommendation.
I first read this five years ago and, let me tell you, the reason I re-read books is because I rarely remember all the details unless I've read the book several times.
So it's often like a delightful first read for me.
I think I liked this one even more than I did the first time and will likely add it to the list of "re-read often" books in my house.
A village in Holland is sad because no storks come to nest in their town.
The children and their teacher decide to change things by making a project of it; they will find an old wagon wheel and put it on top of the school for storks to nest in.Pretty soon, the whole town is involved in the project.
Everyone is out looking for wagon wheels.
Everyone is figuring out how to put the wheel on the school.
Everyone is helping put the wagon wheel on the roof of the school.
There are plenty of difficulties in the task, including finding the wagon wheel in the first place.
