https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/237344.Mister_Dog
A brutal look at autonomy, conservatism, the inability for two solitudes to intersect, and little fat stomachs.
The literary Crispin's Crispian (the dog who belonged to himself) is an independent, kindly, grown-up pooch who walks mainly on his hind legs with a walking stick, he wears an old bathrobe and slippers, eats bread and milk for breakfast and is fond of strawberries.
After a morning of play, the boy and Crispin's Crispian bond, buy, eat and consume with gusto a home-cooked dinner together chez Crispian.
And the Boy's Little Boy balanced his meal with a "bright green vegetable" and gave some to Crispin's Crispian to put in his bone soup.
I don't understand how anyone can see the cover of this book and not immediately run out and buy it. What a cold dark soul you must have! There is one odd page where Brown describes how Mister Dog and the boy he befriends (who also belongs to himself) are conservatives. I think she means Burkean, not Limbaughian, but it's still kind of a weird moment.
I may have been in middle school before I read it.What I remember about this book is that (like the title says) the dog belonged to himself.
I think the book said something like he was "his very own boy." That really stuck with me.
This story made it seem so reasonable for a person to be his/her very own person and belong to him/herself.Many many many years later I was hanging out with kids, being their adult caregiver person and a woman asked me if one of them was mine.
Really, really bizarre. But I should have expected that from a book that I only found because it was weird enough to be shared on buzzfeed and imgur.
Aww, what a wonderful story of two independent souls who become housemates (with separate beds, of course). Read (for the first time ever) in [b:Story Land: 40 Of The Best Little Golden Books Ever Published|1786505|. Want to read again. Especially because I found a possible reference to the dog's name, in Shakespeare's Henry V: https://www.artofmanliness.com/2008/0....
This book is perfect in every way and the fact that some readers here disapprove of it makes it even more perfect.
Where was the climax? I need a climax, damn it!!
And at bedtime he liked everything in its own place – the cup in the saucer, the chair under the table, the stars in the heavens, the moon in the sky, and himself in his own little bed.”Yeah, you gotta watch those damn liberals, they’ll move sunset to the morning just to keep the unions happy.
He is clearly a classic conservative lover of small government.One day, Mister Dog meets a little boy who is fishing in a stream.
This is the child-like mindset Brown exploits (and which Mister Dog then exploits with the little boy).But Brown also implies that you’ll be happier if you let people into your life.
She also wrote Goodnight Moon which is one of my favorite books to read to my kids.
Surely I would love a book about Mister Dog the pipe smoking dog who belongs to himself!It turns out Mister Dog is not his name.
He liked Strawberries."It seems there are people who are against this book due to the pipe smoking and the fact that a little boy goes home with the dog, etc., etc.
It's a 1950's Golden Book with a pipe smoking dog.
After writing this review I decided I'd try reading Mister Dog to my kids after all.
Mister Dog is about Crispin's Crispian (aka Mister Dog) who belongs to no one.
He befriends a little boy who belongs to no one and they decide to live together in the dog's 2 story doghouse.
(I want to sleep in Mister Dog's bed, it just looks so comfy!) This book is really cute and a little weird at the same time, but a good weird!
A warning to some parents, it is like Curious George and has animals smoking tobacco pipes lol.
Well really, what's not to like about a pipe smoking, straw hat wearing dog?
I read Mister Dog over and over again to my children. The language still resonates: “He was a funny old dog. He liked strawberries.” Mister Dog posted a No Cats sign in his yard which amused my kids to no end. Reading this book aloud always seemed comfortable and cozy. It’s a great bedtime book.
I think a dog kidnapped a little boy? Classic little golden books were strange...
Just have your child ignore the various animals smoking cigars/pipes throughout the book.
I'd like to have met Margaret Wise Brown.
She must've been a very interesting wacko.
But since I can't meet her, having killed herself doing a mimicry of a high-leg kick, I can read her books.
Mister Dog was the last one published before Wise Brown died.Lots of people say Margaret Wise Brown's stories aren't really stories.
Also interesting, and all but absent from modern picture books: Characters (both coded male) who take active delight in keeping their house clean and cooking and eating together.
An unintended consequence of the much-needed, still-needed feminist movement is that active delight in stereotypically feminine things is discouraged.
This book came out four years before I was born and I never heard of it until I saw a great exhibition of Garth Williams Illustrations in 2018. What a nice book with lovely illustrations. I liked that Mr Dog who belonged to himself met a boy who belonged to himself and they became friends. They never belonged to each other , but remained their own independent selves.
OH, I loved this book when I was little! So much so, I bought it for my daughter when she was small. And all these many years later, I still love this little gem!
This is a weird little story. I liked it!
This book gave me the creeps and I had to "disappear" it from my daughter's shelf!
The best book ever
I liked it, but it was rather odd.
This was one of my favorite books growing up. I saw a mural painting on my vets wall and instantly knew it was Crispin’s Crispian, she was surprised and had no idea the dog was from a book.
Ok, so the dog belongs to himself. But where are that boy's parents??? (Joking, it's a kids book, I know.)
Things were a lot different in 195212 February 2012 Well, here is another Little Golden Book that I found sitting next to my brother's computer, and since it would pretty much take me less that 5 minutes to read this book, I picked it up and read it. My initial impression was WTF? Seriously WTF? Is this book really a kids' book, and if it were to have been written today would anybody actually touch it? I think not (though it seems by glancing across the number of reviews of this book, I am in th
Seriously WTF?
He then goes out for a stroll and meets a boy who belongs to no one (ie he is a street kid) so takes him home and the boy sleeps in Mister Dog's bed.
Granted, kids sleep in their parent's bed all the time (much to their parent's dismay) and they even sleep with animals on their bed, but this I felt was going just a little bit too far.
Granted, the kid in the book belongs to no one, but this, to me, is also absurd.
Granted, there are a lot of worse books out there (don't go reading the Satyricon to a child, please), but as a children's book, no thanks.
It is WEIRD.
In fact, I recommend reading this book just because it's so bizarre.
The concept itself isn't too strange for a children's book, I suppose: a dog who belongs to himself meets a boy who belongs to himself and they end up going to the dog's house to live together (on second thought, it is strange, even for a children's book).
It's clear that this book was written in a more innocent time, because now the idea of a little boy moving in with a strange old guy and sharing his bedroom--even if the strange old guy is a dog--just skeeves me out.
I can't quite put my finger on what's weird about it.
First time read: before I was 6, I'm sure.My grandparents kept a copy of this book at their house for their grandkids to read during visits.
The book is a little odd, I admit, but it's always been one of my favorites, and I got myself a copy to revisit it.
I read it aloud to Sugar, my pitbull mix, and the tale of Crispin's Crispian, the dog who belonged to himself, reminded us of our late lamented furry friend Mister Zorro, who was a similarly proud beast.
Why do I love this quirky little book so much?It's just so - FUNNY.
(Incidentally, I doubt any child is going to want to take up smoking purely on the strength of an illustration of a dog puffing on a corncob pipe.
My brothers and I certainly didn't.)Definitely not an ordinary picture book.
But those are good things!
Who wants to raise children thinking that everything must be ordinary and the same, and that weird is bad?
Not me.(But hey - if it's not your thing then it isn't, and that's fine too.)
My 2 yoa daughter pulled this one off the shelf at the library, so it made it's way home with us for bedtime reading. What a cute little book! I was honestly off-put by the cover. the dog looks a little creepy to me. But the art is actually just fine when you get into the book. Anyway, I just fell in love with it the first time we read it. It's delightfully written. Nothing really happens in the book, but the life of the simple dog and simple boy - reading it feels comforting.
Mister Dog belongs to himself, he takes himself where he wants to go, and at night, he dreams his own dreams. But there is room in his life and his two story dog house for the boy who belonged to himself. I loved this book as a child and as a teenager. When I read it to my two-year old, we pretend to go inside Mister Dog's house with the boy who belonged to himself. More gentle nonsense from Margaret Wise Brown, this time with a liberating pulse.
Singular tale of a dog who owns himself. He acquires a pet boy, but I guess not really a PET boy, because the boy also belongs to himself. Hard to sum up, at least from half-assed memory, but it's funny and I really liked it.There should be some category that includes both this and The Bear Who Wanted To Be A Bear.
