https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1479055.Prayer_for_a_Child
At the end of the prayer, the child prays for all the children of the world and every race is on the page.
For something in the 40s, that is pretty great.I feel like it's a good prayer teaching the child about being thankful for all you have.
It's about gratitude and thankfulness.
I am hyper sensitive to an agenda being pushed with religion and I didn't feel like they did.
I thought it was good.
It's like Oprah has said, we need to have a practice of gratitudes and this little book is a good start for that.
Lovely pictures that go really well with the prayer. It kind of saddens me that these kind of drawings aren't seen too often nowadays. There is a full version in the front and the rest of the book has pictures for each verse. It was very nice reading this book to children at the library. I had never heard of this book can see why it won the Caldecot Medal in 1945.
The illustrations are wonderful.Annis Duff (a terrific guide to children's literature, and a friend of Jones) writes on the creation of one of those illustrations:http://www.hbook.com/2013/02/authors-..."[Jones] told us she was having a little difficulty in finding the right models to sit for the drawings of “Toys whose shapes I know” in Rachel Field’s Prayer For A Child.
Elizabeth examined them gravely, asked a few questions about their ancestry (this out of understanding of their owners’ pride, not from concern with their social fitness), and then said, “Of course!” So they all went home for a long visit with “our Miss Jones.”The next week the Duff children came down with measles, and the companions of the nursery began to be missed rather badly through the tedious feverish nights.
The first page gives the prayer in its entirety.
Then couplet by couplet the book expands with illustrations of all the things the child asks blessings for – bread and milk, Mother and Father, toys, etc.
It’s a lovely prayer, and the illustrations are delightful.This was first published in 1944, and its gentle message is still appropriate.
However, the illustrations made me cringe for the lack of diversity.
That is, admittedly, a modern sentiment.
Despite the Caldecot award that Elizabeth Orton Jones’s illustrations deserved, I can’t help but wish this would be re-published with new illustrations that showed more children of diverse backgrounds.
Could some of the reviews be more condescending? I think not. I find the illustrations a touch on the sentimental side - as is generally the case with this illustrator - but having just read an explanation of how they came to be I'm more able to overlook it. As far as the written content is concerned - thankfulness is a good thing, even for atheists.
Let's teach children how to be good little boys and girls and pray to Jesus!
I do not like religious dogma, especially when it is used to indoctrinate children into that particular belief system.
No surprise then that I do not like this book.
Having said that, the illustrations themselves are fairly nice, and I do like the part that says, "Bless other children, far and near.
And keep them safe and free from fear."  And there is a nice illustration of children of all races and creeds crowded together shoulder to shoulder in a harmonious group.
This is a lovely, sweet book.
Each page has one or more lines of the prayer next to a full-page illustration of the small girl with a sweetly innocent face.
Her toys look worn and much loved.
The house looks snug and comfy, the kitty soft & fuzzy.
The illustration of the multi-ethnic children shows dozens of sweet, smiling, innocent faces.
I collect angel figurines, so I would love to have her collection of miniature angels, most of which are playing a musical instrument.
As Katherine mentioned, the prayer includes all the sorts of things a young child would ask blessings for.
1945 Caldecott Medal WinnerI'm not quite sure how the illustrations in this were done--it looks like ink and water color, but sometimes the illustrator left the ink outlines off of certain objects like the teddy bear, making them appear almost as though they were done in a different type of media.
The whole book is in color with lots of yellow tones.I like the prayer and that along with the illustrations it includes children all over the world.
The words are simple.
The way the lines of the poem are broken up on each page is sometimes awkward for the rhymes, but it makes sense for the sake of the illustrations.
"Through the darkness, through the night Let no danger come to fright My sleep till morning once again Beckons at the window pane." —Prayer for a Child This is a sweet prayer of supplication to God. I thought it was very well done, and I am definitely a fan of Rachel Field. My one suggestion might have been to include a few lines of praise to the Lord, but this is still a good first prayer book.
Very sweet poetry and pictures. Could read it or pray it with my children every day. Love the line, "Bless other children far and near. And keep them safe and far from fear." with the picture of children from all over the world. Especially heart wrenching when you think about what was going on in the world in 1941 when this story was written.
Oh wow, I had totally forgotten about this book! It really brings back childhood memories
The main character of the book is a young girl, but this prayer is for anyone looking to pray to God. The prayer is mainly a thank you in regards to the blessings she has received in her life, such as milk and bread (food), her bed, the safety and security of her home, her toys, the chair in her room, the light in her room (electricity), her shoes (clothing), and most importantly her family and friends.
This book describes all she has to be thankful for already in her life, even as a young child.
From the cover I could tell what this book would be about, and it was something that I believe is important to teach children.
As the book continued, each part of the prayer was explained with a picture.
I have been raised in a family where faith is important, especially through prayer.
If parents are able to teach this kind of story to their children, I believe the kids will become more aware of prayer.
The power of prayer is important in life, so why not expose kids to it from a young age.
This is a lovely book, stretching across its pages the lines of a mighty prayer for children (and adults) to learn, although it is childlike with an appreciation for the things that fill a child's everyday life).
Like Jones' other illustrated books, she uses her particular style (cute, resonating a little with Precious Moments or Hummel figures) here.
What a great time-capsule item to point to how things have changed in the past seventy years; I can't imagine a book comprised of an illustrated prayer that ends with "for Jesus sake" would even be in the running for a Caldecott now, much less take the medal.
The title of this story is (Prayer for a Child ).The cover illustration directly expresses the theme,which is that prayer will be answered.This story is integrated in terms of language,content,and ideas.The story includes a purposeful message ,encouraging kids to pray.It is intended audience of children who are 10 years or younger.I like one idea: wrote the entire story and then each one separately on individual pages beside specific images that related to each line.Also,he opened each sentence with a great character garnished with symbols.This book has quality pages and images
I enjoyed this book. I think this is a great book to have in the home. It is a good reminder for kids to pray instead of you reminding them. I like how simple the book is with the nice picture. Yet, this book does not belong in a classroom. I would love to have my own children read this book but my students I wouldn't. If you are religious then this is a excellent book for your kids. This shows how important pray is without coming from the parents.
Some of the illustrations were cute but others really kind of creeped me out. Some of the pictures of children looked like possessed dolls.
The "Prayer for a Child" begins in entirety. It is then broken down into small segments to coincide with artwork.
This is a beautiful book. I read this to Jacob most evenings before he goes to bed, and he amazingly sits still through it all. It has lovely words and illustrations.
Not my kind of picture book, all sentiment and so on, but, even so the book has a bit of charm to it. Anyone religious will probably like this simple book. Illustrations have held up well. The book was published a couple years after Field's death and during the last couple years of WWII. I'm sure the atmosphere at the time helped propel the book's popularity. I wonder if it would have won the Caldecott had it come out a decade later?
I also think it is helpful for the teacher/parent reading the book that the first page of the book contains the full prayer.
–The cover tells me that the book is a prayer specially designed for children.
In what language was this book originally written?b)	Since this book deals with religion and Jesus is named at the end of the prayer, is this book allowed to be read in a public school?c)	Why did the author choose to capitalize the words Mother and Father?d)	Why are there tiny angels beside every verse?e)	In one of the pages there is an illustration of what appears to be a spice rack, the small containers are labeled Kaya, houska, hrach and cuka.
The main character of this 1941 book is the stereotypical, dominate 40's idea of an American child.
Each picture has a page to itself with the text next door.
The children all wear happy expressions and are drawn with equal skill to the main character.
It seems that all children share a prosperous economic level in this book.
Mostly, the opening word of each text stanza is "bless" as the main character offers a prayer of thanks for what she has been given.
Maybe our lives do not carry this sense of order, but the book invites us to look for simple things: family, friends.
This book is a great bedtime story for religious families to read with their children.
It has both great content and amazing illustrations that will keep children captivated, listening, and looking at every page.
The consistency of the writing and text placement on the pages adds overall coherence to the story.
My favorite picture in the book accompanies the verse that asks God to bless other children.
Small artistic details like this make the book feel personal and unique.
Overall, this book has great content and pictures to keep children engaged.
This was a really sweet book about things to pray for. It has rhyme to it and is an easy read.This book also has great sentence fluency.LevelLexile: 200GR: FTraitssentence fluency
This book is so warm and sweet to me. I am a big Christian, and I love how the book introduces young readers to praying about everything and anything around them. The book is very short and easy to understand which makes it a good read for anyone. The setting jumps all around. I also enjoyed the detailed drawings/art work, this made the book even better. I love the message and it truly "makes" the book for me.
The book gently urges the young reader to recognize that there are other children in the world who may need their prayers for safety and comfort-- a very appropriate wartime message which also resonates today.
If this book were written today, perhaps the main character and her family wouldn't be quite so blonde and blue-eyed-- in fact, the illustrations might depict multiple children of all different cultures, rather than focusing on one "all American" family.
But since this book was published in the 1940s, the one page depicting children from all over the world is what we get-- and it is sweet.
I was pleasantly surprised to see that, though the child presumably reciting the prayer is of course golden-haired, blue-eyed, & very definitely a white girl living a white life with white people, the page blessing "...
Not to mention Native Americans!) So. I'm going to say it's good for its time, but its time has passed, & Caldecott medal winners need to continue to get increasingly diverse - & that diversity should definitely not be a surprise the way it was to me here, but a matter of course that no one thinks shocking enough to remark upon.
Prayer for a Child by Rachel Field is a prayer illustrated and put into book form.
Each phrase from the verse is put onto a page, and there is an illustration for each.
Illustrations are explaining each phrase on the page.
In 1994, times were different, and as a result this book won the Caldecott.
Unfortunately I do not think I would ever use this book in my teaching.
I liked this book and enjoyed the pictures, but in a time like today I do not think that this book would be in a classroom.
This book is beautifully written and illustrations are very detailed and match the theme of the story.
Rachel does an amazing job at capturing the meaning behind a prayer and conveying the message through a story for children.
Elizabeth Orton Jones, the illustrator made the pictures more realistic in my opinion, so young children will relate to it better.
Elizabeth used warm tones like yellow, blue brown and red to make the book feel comforting while reading.
The book is written as a prayer and sounds somewhat like a poem, with rhyming words and phrases.
This book is delicate and sweet and I really liked it.
This book is about a prayer that children can say before bed, and asks for many things in the child's life to be blessed.
The first page dedicates the book to “Hannah,” followed by the entire prayer, then portions of the prayer broken up with pictures next to them.
I enjoyed that the prayer can be read as a whole before it is broken down into smaller chunks with pictures.
The pictures are all of a little girl and the things in her life like her bed, friends, and family she would like to bless.
