https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/175324.Double_Star
In Double Star, a 1956 Robert Heinlein novella, Lawrence Smith (aka Lorenzo Smythe or "Lorenzo the Great"), an out-of-work actor, accepts a job to impersonate a man for a few days, without, perhaps, asking as many questions about the job as he should have.
But somehow one appearance as a double leads to another, and another...My (self-imposed) mission was to find a Robert Heinlein story where the enjoyment of the tale isn't swamped by the offensive content for which Heinlein is, unfortunately, well known.
Double Star, I think, does the job pretty well.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Pax Americana: "Double Star" by Robert A.
HeinleinImplausible and impossible to put down- like all of Heinlein’s books I’ve read its hero is a man of action and boundless self confidence, a wisecracking all-American cowboy figure who brushes obstacles aside, a genial dictator figure who knows that as long as he’s left in charge everything will be o.k. The voice is always the same – and I can see why the new wake of science fiction writers reacted against Heinlein: Aldiss, Moorcock, Ballard, Dick.
Really enjoyed this. Heinlein's first but least recognized Hugo Award winner. Like many of his better works, this is a science fiction vehicle that he uses to discuss other issues, here he spends time with politics, maybe even adding some subtle, and not too subtle ideas about what he thinks is right and wrong in politics. Not consistent with other novels about Martians, or his future fiction in other books, but excellent characterization and a fun story. Borrows heavily from the Prisoner of Zenda theme.
It's the story of an actor asked to play the most challenging and dangerous role of his life: representing a politician during a ceremony that, if it isn't conducted exactly right, could mean death.
Witty and fast-paced, Double Star is very fun, and I can't honestly say whether I liked this or Starship Troopers better.
I liked this one better because at the end of the day, the message here was, "Politicians can be replaced by decent actors without anyone noticing," whereas the message in Starship Troopers was "Woo Haa!
It's time we take back this country from bland, insipid politicians, and put someone with real positions on the issues back in office!
You like values, right?
It is, indeed, a lot of fun: pathetic, failed actor Laurence Smith (stage name, "Lorenzo Smythe") is hired to impersonate John Joseph Bonforte, leader of the Expansionist party, and the Solar System's most important politician.
I don't want to give away too much of a fun plot, but the basic message is that politicians, even good ones like Bonforte, are fakes.
Any halfway competent actor with a few weeks of prep time could step into their shoes, and they would do just as well.I think Heinlein was unusually prescient here.
It now seems that that was largely a construct, but I believed it at the time, even though I didn't like it.
Washed-up actor Lorenzo Smythe accepts the role of his lifetime- to impersonate a politician who has been kidnapped, right before both an important meeting meant to unite Humans and Martians.
Along with the anti-British sentiment which seems so small once you bring space into the matter, and the bigotry between humankind and the martians, the viewpoints in this book are really rather boring and outdated.I was hoping for something a little bit more fun and not so heavily reliant on the reader's understanding of the American political system, but perhaps it's my own fault for not expecting as much.
O lectura facilă și amuzantă, Stea dublă este povestea lui Lawrence Smith, un actor șomer care acceptă să joace rolul unei mari personalități politice timp de câteva zile și se trezește fără voia sa în miezul unei întregi conspirații oculte...
Printre ideile interesante: egalitatea dintre rase (umane și non-umane în acest caz), importanța menținerii imaginii politice publice în detrimentul esenței și implicațiile pe care le are abordarea unui rol pentru fiecare actor.
Lumea acceptă o anumită cantitate de reformă, după care se mai odihnește.
Dar reforma rămâne.
Dar progresăm, dacă trebuie – dacă vrem să ajungem la stele.
A spinner of yarns, a teller of tales, and if readers frequently read too much into the author's id because of what his characters did, that was their own lookout.Double Star is typical of Heinlein SF.
Heinlein added spaceships and Martians because that's the kind of story he wrote, but I'll bet non-SF readers would enjoy this story just as much if it had been written as a "mundane" conspiracy thriller.This is not his most exciting or imaginative work, but it is a good showcase of Heinlein's early style, and his talents as a writer.
Between the Hugo win and the subject matter, I thought it would be worth a try.Willis said that Double Star was inspired by the story of M.E. Clifton James, who was sent to North Africa and Gibraltar in Field Marshal Montgomery's place in order to confuse the Germans.
The Great Lorenzo (nee Lawrence Smith) is an out of work actor when he is plucked out of a bar to perform the role of a lifetime: impersonating the kidnapped Expansionist leader John Joseph Bonforte.
در بین علمیتخیلیهایی که تا به حال خوندم این یکی بسیار متفاوت و جذاب بود. فضاسازی و شخصیتپردازی ستودنی هستند و داستان سریع و پرتنش مخاطب رو به وجد میاره. خیلی دوست دارم روزی چنین داستانی بنویسم.پ.ن: شاید تنها ایرادی که بشه به داستان گرفت همگام نبودن پیشرفت فناوری با زمان وقوع داستانه؛ زمانی که سفرهای بین سیارهای به راحتی سفرهای بین شهری امروز شدهاند و صحبت از تمدنهای بیگانه و فناوریهای فوقپیشرفته است، وجود بایگانی کاغذی عظیم و دفترهای قطور کمی عجیبه.
در بین علمی‌تخیلی‌هایی که تا به حال خوندم این یکی بسیار متفاوت و جذاب بود. فضاسازی و شخصیت‌پردازی ستودنی هستند و داستان سریع و پرتنش مخاطب رو به وجد میاره. خیلی دوست دارم روزی چنین داستانی بنویسم.پ.ن: شاید تنها ایرادی که بشه به داستان گرفت همگام نبودن پیشرفت فناوری با زمان وقوع داستانه؛ زمانی که سفرهای بین سیاره‌ای به راحتی سفرهای بین شهری امروز شده‌اند و صحبت از تمدن‌های بیگانه و فناوری‌های فوق‌پیشرفته است، وجود بایگانی کاغذی عظیم و دفترهای قطور کمی عجیبه.
Double Star: No second-rate actor could ever become president, right?Originally posted at Fantasy LiteratureDouble Star is one of Robert Heinlein’s most enjoyable early period SF novels, a short and tightly-plotted story of out-of-work actor Lawrence Smith (aka “The Great Lorenzo”), who is unexpectedly tapped for a very important acting job, to impersonate an important politician named John Bonforte who has been kidnapped.
I mean, that would be unthinkable that an action star or second-rate actor could be a governor, or even, God forbid, President of the United States, right?While Double Star is a great novel, I have mixed feelings about the works of Dean and Grand Master of Science Fiction, Robert Heinlein.
He was approached with a job; to impersonate someone for about an hour.
It would be a quick job, and he would be well paid for his efforts.Lorenzo was not told who he would be impersonating, or the reason why.
He eventually was talked into taking the job, but little did he know that the job was to impersonate someone on Mars.
And Lorenzo got physically sick at the sight and smell of Martians!This is a fun story, well told, by the great science fiction author, Robert Heinlein.
There isn't much science here, but the story doesn't really need any.
The story flows almost like a mystery novel.
This may be my favorite Robert Heinlein novel, at least of the few I've read so far.
I enjoy political intrigue in SF novels and Heinlein does a great job creating a detailed, believable plot full of twists and turns, that still never seems to drag.
Lorenzo Smythe is a great character who grows during the course of the book to become a better person.
I like that.
I also like that there was none of the weird Heinlein sex stuff that made me dislike "Stranger in a Strange Land." This was just a fun, well thought out science fiction story.
I have always been a fan of the "idea" portions of Heinlein's stories but sometimes have found the actual plots a bit dry.
Not so with this one which I really liked from both an idea and plot perspective.
In brief, the story revolves around a talented, but unemploted, actor named Lawrence Smith recruited to portray a popular politician after he has been kidnapped by political rivals.
I really like both Smith and politician he impersonates named John Joseph Bonforte.
Both characters come across as true heroes in the classic sence of the word.
I also thought the very last line of the book was classic.
Slowly he pulled out his trowel, and stealthily advanced toward the fast disappearing shadow just around the corner..."Back to the review: Double Star is a fun adventure story that had me wondering what was going to happen to the very end and, unlike some stories, resolves in a satisfying, convincing and also poignant way."If a man walks in dressed like a hick and acting as if he owned the place, he's a spaceman."This is the first sentence of the story and the observation is made by our main character, Lawrence Smith, aka "the Great Lorenzo."He might have been great but now he is an out of work actor trying to avoid creditors.
I started this reread at the recommendation of Jo Walton, who wrote that “Double Star may well be Heinlein’s best novel.” https://www.tor.com/2010/07/22/parlia...
It won the 1956 Hugo award for best novel.
So I’m not sure I’ll continue.On the plus side, I’m reading the first hardcover edition — very likely the one I read back then — and the period art is priceless.
And the book could be viewed as an alternate-history novel of sorts, or even a history-of SF artifact.
Again, I was really tickled by this old tale in audio format. The reader was excellent & his voices occasionally had me in stitches. The King sounded like JFK & it worked. LOL!Politics is the greatest game, but sometimes has dirty players, is Heinlein's assertion. The basic idea is that of team play. Interesting idea & I loved the way the character evolved. Again, he managed to fit a lot of his own ideas into the story without being preachy & keeping the action moving the entire time.

I have a soft spot for Heinlein.
Often I think that a Heinlein book that I really enjoy will not be for everyone, however, in this case, I think nearly everyone would enjoy this light, entertaining romp of a book.
The narrative is from the POV of the protagonist Lawrence Smythe (hack actor "The Great Lorenzo").
Smythe is a narcissistic, self delusional asshat who is suddenly, more or less without his informed consent, thrust into what turns out to be the life changing role of a lifetime.
Bilimkurgu okurları daha fazla keyif alacaklardır. Benim okuduğum edisyon 104 sayfaydı (OKAT Yayınları - Kindle'da okudum), Metis baskısı 180 sayfa görünüyor. Sanırım benim okuduğum biraz kısaltılmış tercümesi.
''If there were ethical basics that transcended time and place, then they were true both for Martians and for men. They were true on any planet around any star—and if the human race did not behave accordingly they weren’t ever going to win to the stars because some better race would slap them down for double-dealing.'' 4,5 stars. One couldn't not love the good, old sci-fi, especially when sprinkled with some political Libertarianism. I really liked all the characters, but I was also deeply troubled by the parallels with the white supremacist ideology that seems to rise again these days...
I've read this fine novel twice. I liked it better the second time 'round. Upon my first reading, I felt I had read - or watched - to many like it before. It was also a different sort of story than what I was expecting, or used to, from Heinlein. But it is well crafted, I liked the characters and the humour. If it's an original idea at the time it was published, it deserved the Hugo and the praise it continues to get.Scalzi could have written this had he been born a couple generation earlier, I think.
The narrator recites a tale of beatings and abuse that would likely serve as a pretty good legal brief for a lawyer suing the father for damages) becomes 'educated' by subsuming his own personality into the person he's hired to impersonate.
The character Bonforte is almost as abusive as Lorenzo's unlamented father (where was his mother, by the way?), if not so physically so.
The basic argument of militarists is "We're right, and no reasonable people will disagree with us.
Heinlein accepted nuclear technologies too readily, without (apparently) much real understanding of the risks involved.
Of the so-called "Big 3" of sci-fi, I'd put Heinlein squarely at #4. Though I found this surprisingly tolerable and entertaining, sci-fi was clearly just a vehicle for him to write about his true passion, politics. He just can't help getting up on his soapbox and lecturing us on the virtues of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Every time I read something from Heinlein I swear it will be the last, and this time I probably mean it.
Possible the spirit of the artist is foreign to you, sir, yet perhaps I may put it in terms germane to your own profession."Lawrence Smith, also known as Lorenzo Smythe --The Great Lorenzo!-- is a very proud actor, and one of the best know in the Empire.
But there are dirty players."The Great Lorenzo, as he is known, is dramatically affected by the memory of his father, something that shows as the story develops, a trait you see even in the final stages of the plot.
But it ends with such delicacy, such intimate and well captured moments that the story is rendered from grand to epic.
While I didn't care much for Heinlein's Starship Troopers, I loved his Stranger in a Strange Land .
What I really like about Heinlein's books is how his worlds and the alien involvement feels so natural.
This is truly the performance of his life because both his life, the politician, and the world depend on it.
There was some annoying sexism to deal with, as is to be expected of the time, but it was not nearly as prevalent and frustrating as it was in Stranger in a Strange Land, which I still loved in spite of that.
Laurence Smith, stage name Lorenzo Smythe, in search of work, takes on a performance offered by a space pilot, with few details offered.
Written before man went into space, Heinlein foresees an interplanetary government that includes earth as well as other settled moons and planets, with the issue of membership for other planets’ natives arising.
Heinlein has many hits about the future, space travel and perhaps weaponry, but misses, too, like huge archives of files, presumably paper, and men on the moon working their election calculations on slide rules (youngsters, ask what those were).
In Double Star, actor Lorenzo Smythe is a down and out actor who is tabbed to take on the role of pretending to be a key politician who is in the middle of a plot involving potential interplanetary war with Mars.
After the politician has been kidnapped and injured, Lorenzo is embroiled in a series of conspiracies that lead him to interplanetary adventure.This was a fun novel to read.
Lorenzo starts off as a real pretentious and prissy sort, but evolves during the course of the novel.
All told, this was an enjoyable novel that I would recommend.Carl Alves – author of Reconquest: Mother Earth
Chosen from this Readers's Top 100 list: http://www.modernlibrary.com/top-100/...It's hard to rate a book that was written over 60 years ago - it always feels a little unfair to rate something that was written for different sensibilities.
I'm rating it based on my current experience of it.When this book started, I thought I wasn't going to be able to finish it, or wouldn't like it, because the main character is so arrogant, snobbish, prejudiced, just an all-around douchebag.
Heinlein’s adult novels have interesting ideas or premises but many lack likeable characters and/or fun quickly-moving plots.
Fortunately Double Star has all the right elements and is entertaining from start to finish.
Double Star is a character-based novel that explores some important political issues without getting preachy.Lorenzo Smythe, who styles himself “The Great Lorenzo,” is a down-and-out actor who has a lot more self-esteem than he has job offers.
Just after he’s spent his last penny, he’s offered an acting job that pays a lot more money than he’s ever been offered before.
