https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30268522-why-not-me
(I nearly cheered out loud when I read that bit, but I was sitting in Whole Foods, so I held myself back.)All of the essays in the book are funny, but the best ones are the ones where she wrestles with the question, Who is Mindy Kaling?
It makes you laugh, and you come away knowing Mindy Kaling (hopefully the real one) just a little bit better.____Update 9/21/15: Liiiiiiiked it a looooooot.
IT'S HAPPENING!!!!My thoughts on this book.
Probably the most relatable memoir I've ever read!
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ Maaaaaaaaaaaaaaan. I was really hoping I’d like this one more. I mean, Mindy and I have quite a bit in common and I thought we could possibly be kindred spirits. We both enjoy testing out new inventions . . .  (Who says you can’t take alcohol in to youth sporting events? Amateurs!!!!!!!!!!!!!)Speaking of alcohol, we both abide by the policy that alcohol  “when obtained, need[s] to be ingested quickly in case someone trie[s] to take it
I mean, Mindy and I have quite a bit in common and I thought we could possibly be kindred spirits.
I get that she works like 18 hour days, but you’d think if you have become famous by writing adorkable 20/30-somethings you would at least know the character names of 
But once again she had a redemption arc by admitting that everyone in Hollywood lies about the fact that doing a sex scene is “uncomfortable” and “just another part of the job.” Nope, Mindy freely owns that 
That’s right, Mindy.
However, by Season 3 of The Mindy Project I was more like this .
I'm so embarrassed that I didn't know who Mindy Kaling was, I just saw that a lot of people like the book and thought I would read it.
I liked the book good enough, she is really funny.
Oh God, and when she was talking about getting all of this email from these prisoners.
I had that happen when one of my penpal buddies/not buddy anymore, added me to a prison list and I started getting a bunch to my PO Box. These things happen to everyone!
Kaling's first book was a mishmash of funny essays and stories about her childhood and time spent working in Hollywood; Why Not Me?
Mindy Kaling is successful because she works so, so hard for everything she has.
It's about the struggles of a delusional Indian thirtysomething trying to scam on white dudes!"In its best moments, this book is a response to all the people who ever looked at Mindy Kaling and sneered, "Why should you be on TV?" Kaling's response: "Because I work really hard and also, why not?"At the end of the book, Kaling addresses the concept of confidence.
i love mindy kaling.
reading this book felt like having a nice, long heart-to-heart with her, filled with laughs and awkwardness and occasionally moving snippets and just a whole lot of fun.
of course, not all of this book is funny and not every joke lands, but a lot of it is great.
there's also a little chapter dedicated to fictional/alternate-life mindy and her interactions with a fictional grumpy history teacher, and honestly, although it's fiction in a collection of generally non-fiction essays, that part was probably my favorite section of the book.
mindy kaling is talented, and i love her.
3.5 stars for Why Not Me? by Mindy KalingThis was an enjoyable, entertaining, and a light read which was exactly what I needed for getting myself used to listening to audiobooks!I do have a print copy of this book so I was able to follow along and see all the pictures and messages that were included with this book.
Alright, I'm going to take a deep breath and say it; I didn't love this book.
This book just didn't fit into any of those reasons of why I love her.
There was a bit too much of the I'm-so-famous-look-at-how-famous-I-am-now Mindy, and not enough of the I'm-making-it-in-Hollywood-but-I'm-still-a-big-dork Mindy that I loved so much in her first book.
The book felt like it was rushed and the love and time spent on the first one isn't there.
There is a whole chapter of what her life is like now and how busy she is, and I think she was just too busy to write this book.
You all know how much I love Mindy. I liked hearing about her next chapters post-Office life and also about her thoughts on BJ Novak! It was a really short book, but I still enjoyed it. I wanted to give it 5 stars (I actually did initially), but after thinking about it, I realized that I wasn't completely satisfied. The shortness of the book bothered me and it didn't feel complete. The parts that were there were AWESOME. I think I just wanted a bit more. Still totally worth a listen/read because MINDY.
YESSS I'll read anything she writes. Mindy is a gem. She is bright, humorous and very genuine. Her giving advice about everything from clothes to boys to careers, she is the role model young girls should look up to. I love her inspirational voice and humour and she still makes me laugh just by speaking, her voice is too cute. I listened to the audiobook and loved it. Her essays aren't as funny as the first book but this one is a little more serious which is also still as good.
Mindy is somebody we’d all like as our bestie. The chapter with her address to Harvard Law is especially brilliant
I think this concludes my foray into celebrity memoir type books for a while now. Kaling seems a nice person, but both of her books left me fairly unaffected. Not bad at all, but not very funny either, which was what I had hoped for.Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
So good! Full Review Here
“People get scared when you try to do something, especially when it looks like you're succeeding.
People do not get scared when you're failing.
But when you're winning, it makes them feel like they're losing or, worse yet, that maybe they should've tried to do something too, but now it's too late.
I caught myself laughing to a lot of her stories and I loved hearing about the start up of the Mindy Project.I also loved a lot of the parts about confidence, and just being yourself.Really look forward to more books if she writes more in the future :)I think she should write a fictional novel cause shes an amazing storyteller :D
Unpopular Opinion TimeI think I'm more of a Mindy Lahiri fan than a Mindy Kaling one.It's been awhile since I have finished a book and was left feeling so apathetic.
I enjoy the Mindy Project and The Office, but I just don't find Mindy all that interesting to read about.
I feel like I'm reading someones diary and not in a good way.
I think I chuckled once while reading this, but my main thought was often “how is this even worthy of a mention?” I normally don't mind rambly narratives, but this one was just too mundane for me.
My favorite section was about her friendship with fellow "Office" writer and actor B.J. Novak, and she shares a few good stories about working with him.In short, this memoir is like a romantic comedy wrapped up in a cute little book jacket.
Mindy has a nice fan base, and if you have enjoyed her TV and film work, you would probably get a kick out of this book.
I know I sound like some dour older spinster chambermaid on Downton Abbey who has never felt a man's touch and whose heart has turned to stone, but I don't understand how you could have self-confidence if you don't do the work.
It kept my interest enough to slide through (as of this writing) all 70+ episodes, and further solidified my admiration of her work ethic, but only sporadically did I find myself laughing as hard as I did with  The Office material.The book itself, though quite a bit similar to her first one, is much more funny, and much less superficial than the selfies of her volcanic acne issues and lists of NBA stars she'd most like to boink that made the first book so ho-hum to me.
I enjoyed this one more than her first book, although both were just so lighthearted yet packed with great stories and advice.
It's very good, clean humor, and Mindy is so energetic and playful that I can't help but love her.
In this one she focuses a lot on confidence and friendships, and I thought a lot of her advice was so endearing and I actually underlined some of her thoughts near the end.
This book talks a lot more about The Mindy Project, which I don't watch and don't intend to watch, but she still made it funny and interesting to learn about the behind the scenes.
i wanted to love this bc mindy kaling is like the cutest human ever but this was just.....really unfunny and the topics were so erratic?? didn't win me over. sad.1.5 stars
“I had finally done it. I had created a show. Not for Must-See TV, home of Cheers and Friends. But for Fox, home of Married … with Children and Joe Millionaire. You never quite get everything you want the way you want it. But here I was, a showrunner and TV star, so who cared? Nothing bad would happen to me now. The end!NOT SO FAST, BIG SHOT” ‘Why Not Me?’ is Mindy Kaling’s second foray into the world of memoir writing and it again is another funny collection of anecdotes, speeches, general mus
And there was lots of background information about her comedy show The Mindy Project….oh and the time she met President Obama…AHHHHHHAHAHAHAHA what a hoot!!!So do I feel like I know Mindy better after reading this second book??
“You don’t have to give people candy to like you, Mindy,” he said.
Sure, she might seem a little crazy, and, yes, maybe everything she says sounds like conversation starters she found on a website, but at least she’s trying.
Like any normal woman, I would see a dress, buy it, rip the tags off with my teeth, save the buttons for ten to twelve years in a drawer, and wear it to work.
She imagines what her life would be like if she had become a Latin teacher and writes romantic comedies starring her alter ego.I could live without the dating escapades that seem required of these types of memoirs.
While Kaling aspires to write the next great romantic comedy, I think what this book proves is that her real genius is in brilliant one liners and self-aware satire."My sense of humor is loud and wet and risque, like topless day at the water park."Kaling also wants you to know that she works hard.
I loved Mindy Kaling's first book Is Everybody Hanging Out Without Me?
I basically love anything Mindy Kaling does, with good reason, including her new book Why Not Me?.
Honestly if Mindy Kaling is explaining to me how the REM cycle works, she'll find a way to turn it into the most fascinating, funny, and exciting thing ever.
isn't just funny, we get to read about the whole issue with Fox's cancellation of The Mindy Project and Hulu picking it up.
I wish she writes more and not just this type of book, but an actual fictional story.
I love Mindy Kaling and her humour will always bring a smile and laugh to me.
*4.5Man I love Mindy!!I listened to this book via Audible, that't the way to do it! Her books are fantastic audiobooks, Mindy has such a great story telling ability and her reading this book made it that much better! I enjoyed this book even more than her first one! there was only one section that I didn't like, it was a series of emails and I found it to be a bit repetitive and boring! Other than that, this book was FABULOUS, just like Mindy herself :)
I love Mindy so much!
I honestly can't decide which book of hers I like more since they are both so spectacular.
I love her show The Mindy Project, and am so happy that she went further into detail about the process, the characters, and the development.
Her love of her friends and family is shown wonderfully, and you can really tell how much she appreciates their support.
Overall, I loved this and will read (or listen to), and watch, anything that she writes, acts in, or produces.
Highly recommend listening to her books in audiobook format!
Listened to this one on audiobook. I say this about every celebrity memoir, but I think that my reaction to any celebrity memoir is basically how I feel about that celebrity in general. In the case of Mindy Kaling, I have a 70/30 love-disinterest ratio going on with her and that is basically how I felt about the book.
On my second time read through of Why Not Me? by Mindy Kaling, I couldn't get enough. I enjoyed the book in hardcover, but I REALLY enjoyed it in audio. Audio is 100% the way to go with this one. Perfect narration and I laughed out lough numerous times. My mood wasn't that great today and this book brought my spirits way up.goodreads|instagram|twitter|blog
Very sweet and funny. Felt very intimate- like she was telling all these things to me personally. I enjoyed it. :)
I love Mindy! Such hilarious insights to the world we live in, and knows how to make me laugh. Listening to the audiobook was like sitting a room with a good friend, swapping hilarious stories about life, jobs, food. Oh man, now I'm hungry... But seriously, this book was everything I needed. Audiobooks read by the author, especially when the author is very entertaining, is the way to go!I received the audiobook for review from the publisher.
Very amusing in places but I was made very aware throughout that I wasn't the target audience. Not a bad read, particularly if you're a fan of Kaling's television work, but I wouldn't recommend it to anybody else, to be honest.Buddy-read with the missus.
