https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/205621.Pilgrim_s_Inn
I think I will start a bookshelf containing books that I know I will want to reread repeatedly throughout my life.
Sometimes what I like most about a book is the atmosphere it creates.
What elements of a book constitute "atmosphere"?
For Elizabeth Goudge, as for Lucy Maud Montgomery, I think it's at least partly a way of making houses and gardens and the people who occupy them beautifully infuse one another.
Some people would probably find this book preachy or find its morality old-fashioned.
Many men return from the war with physical and mental scars, trying to 'get on with their lives' but finding that the old roles no longer fit, that the world is still filled with the horrors of the camps, the refugees, the terrible new weapons, unspeakable things.
Then there are George and Nadine's children; each one, from the oldest teenage boys to the irrepressible five year old twins, is drawn as a completely believable individual, living in the now yet filled with promise.
I try to read this title yearly. So beautiful and I take away something new each time. <3
I usually read this book at Christmas.
I love it so much that I bought several used copies (it is an old book) and distributed them.
I don't know why - but the messages of this book bring peace to my soul - as it should, as the book is about inner peace and living and making choices for the right reasons.
The end of the book has a great Christmas sequence.
The book takes place right after WWII which apeals to me not only because my parents were young then, but it describes well what we feel about what is happening in the world today.
I have probably read this book 5-6 times over 20 years.
Her beauty and class privilege are used to justify the preposterous and hubristic way she cajoles, cheats, and cozens her hapless daughter-in-law into agreeing to move to the country, run an inn, and completely change her lifestyle "for her own good," which is conflated with that of her family's.
This seems like cheating, or at the very least the work of someone who's never had to deal with people of radically different perspectives.But in the end, I still love Goudge's depiction of place and of time and of home.
I think that I would've enjoyed this more if I'd a) read it at a slower pace and b) not gulped the whole thing down in one reading.
I digress.)I both loved and partially disliked (I'm the kind of reader who wants ONE character to get behind and root for - several?
They all had flaws and it was both delicious and frustrating to read.I think that the cover of the version I borrowed from my sister (thanks, sister!) does the story an injustice.
I think that this is perhaps she was writing in ...
This is the second book in the series Elizabeth Goudge wrote on 'the Eliots of Damerosehay'[22 points to anyone who can come up with a definitive pronunciation of 'Damerosehay.'] I read it first based on a friend's recommendation that it was his favorite book by Ms. Goudge; also upon the the fact that her books are pretty scarce to find and yet, this one happened to be sitting on the shelf of a second hand bookshop in Dallas.
On to the book.First of all, I might recommend reading "The Bird in the Tree" first because this book gives a pretty good sense of at least one of the major conflicts of that book.
Sometimes one discovers an author or work that compels you to read from cover to cover repeatedly. Pilgrim's Inn, I feel, is in that category. It is the first, and thus far the only, of Elizabeth Goudge's writings that I have read and I did worry that I may have spoilt this series by unwittingly jumping in with the second novel. However, her poetic descriptions of place, time and sentiment transcend the story itself. I anticipate visiting this book again, and again, if only to lose myself in its beauty.
The second installment of the Eliot Family Trilogy was just as entertaining as the first book, A Bird in the Tree. This one was quite magical in the setting of Herb of Grace house and the mysterious wood it borders. Elizabeth Goudge is a masterful weaver of story, setting, and character relationships.
Extraordinary fiction. If you haven't read Goudge yet, you need to start with this trilogy. No fluffy romance here. Real people with real problems and no simple solutions. Yet the outcome is satisfying.
A richly beautiful, deep, freeing, redemptive and quietly impacting book! It was a timely read for me. Loved it!
Lucilla, has not been deceived by this clandestine affair and persuades the daughter-in-law, Nadine, to call it off although Nadine still has very strong feelings for David, which shows on her face whenever they are together.
He only knows that Nadine is less than loving toward him.By manipulating these various players in the drama, Lucilla manages to get George to take his children to see the inn, The Herb of Grace, which is very close to her own home, without Nadine's knowledge and they fall in love with the old inn itself as well as the location which includes a lovely 'enchanted' wood on the property.
If nothing else, read the description of Meg Eliot and her dog ,Mouse, as they squelch their way down the driveway in the opening paragraphs of "The heart of the family." If you can't see, hear and smell that delightful scene, I'll eat my hat!
Add to that a heart without prejudice, and a gift for description and you have a great read.
Fortunately, my mother is a Goudge fan too and was happy to oblige.Some of her books may be a little hard to find, but amazon.com keeps e-mailing me when another one comes available, so there is hope.
Luscious Elizabeth Goudge writing from the middle of the last century.
The pace, the humane time for peoples' quirks, all of it.
Modern novel writing and especially commercial best seller, now- it is nearly the antithesis of this kind of story telling.
Here is mid 20th Century with no revisionist 2000 plus character sensibilities.
But nothing is more refreshing to me than being sunk within the structures of Goudge's peoples' English lives.
The values and the high standards of citizens within a Goudge story- especially of this time period!
To me, this story is about the home - a place of refuge, of beauty, of inspiration, of acceptance, of growth, of solace.
It speaks of slowing down, appreciating beauty, death and rebirth.
Every home was a brick in the great wall of decent living that men erected over and over again as a bulwark against the perpetual flooding in of evil.
But women made the bricks, and the durableness of each civilization depended upon their quality, and it was no good weakening oneself for the brick-making by thinking too much about the flood."
Uncovering long lost art, discovery of the true meaning of "home is where the heart is" and taking a chance on love that ultimately leads to healing and happiness unbeknown before.
I loved how Goudge created a place, the Herb of Grace, and a bonded each character to it so they all held a deep love for it and felt enveloped with peace and happiness when they were there.
There are places in all of our lives that we feel this way and about, thus creating a bond between the reader and the characters in the emotions and heart warming feelings they share.
A story about a family battered by the war, whose move to a country home brings healing to their various stresses and strains.
The home had previously functioned as an inn for pilgrims in medieval times, and the spirit of warmth and comfort is felt by all who enter.
The main characters are a husband and wife and their five children, another couple, a famous painter and his adult daughter, and an actor who is a relative of the first family.
Goudge does an excellent job of creating characters and describing not only their personalities and interactions but how they grow and change.
I rarely reread books, but I could read this one over and over. It is the life-affirming, slightly mystical, and God-infused story of a family that falls in love with an ancient English inn. I love that the characters are real people with real problems, not saints. If you're tired of dark, despairing books that tell you that life is futile, read this one to uplift your spirit. I also recommend all other titles by Elizabeth Goudge.
I've read this book every few years since I was a tween. It was a gift to my mother from a friend she met at Girl Scout camp - the inscription is from 1960. If you're looking for a story with many scenes of pleasant English nature, lots of jam, and a few heavy-handed morals, this is the book for you. That makes it sound horrible, but it's very nice.
I've read this book almost every year for the past 20 years and still get warm and fuzzy when reading it! Something about E. Goudge's books speak to me. I want to be part of the family! She can describe old houses and children like no one else.
I wish I could give this more than five stars.
Great book! Wish that I had read the trilogy in order! Begin with "The Bird in the Tree" for a complete picture.
This was my second time reading this and oh my! What richness!

My copy is titled “The Herb of Grace” which is the name of the Pilgrims inn - a good story, relaxing to read.
Years ago, David and George’s wife Nadine had fallen hopelessly in love with each other, but had chosen, in the end, to put their love aside.* But Nadine has never completely let go, and David is in the midst of a nervous breakdown after his war experiences, unable to move on.Somehow, the Herb of Grace gathers them all in: George and Nadine… their children Ben, Tommy, Caroline, and the twins… Sally Adair and her father John, a famous portrait painter… handyman Jim Maloney and Annie-Laurie, haunted by her past… one by one the Herb of Grace weaves them together in a new pattern that brings healing and restoration to them all.Pilgrim’s Inn (called The Herb of Grace when it was originally published) is the first of Elizabeth Goudge’s adult books I read, and it remains one of my favorites.
I read Pilgrim's Inn, as I did Bird in the Tree, while I was typesetting and proofing them for Hendrickson Publishers, where I am Associate Editor.
The text really feels close to the characters, close but also unblinking, revealing without being severe, and that intimacy makes the growth and healing of the Eliots (well, in almost every case.
I haven't read the third book yet but it's next on my list!The Hendrickson editions are set to release in paperback and all ebook formats this year, a fact that I am very happy about.
I'm hoping we're able to get this book out to a ton of people who wouldn't otherwise have the chance to read it.
I like what she's saying about the importance of home and homemaking, and sacrificial love. But I'm seriously annoyed by the innate ability of every character to look into the eyes of a stranger and understand them fully. Also, I know I'm supposed to adore Lucilla but I find her manipulative and self-important.
But women made the bricks, and the durableness of each civilisation depended upon their quality; and it was no good weakening oneself for the brick-making by thinking too much about the flood..
The mellow warmth of the port, the pleasure of the game, the sight of Lucilla's lovely old face in the firelight, and David's fine hands holding the cards, his awareness of Margaret's endearing simplicity, and the contentment of the two old dogs dozing on the hearth .
Only to Hilary, no joy was small; each had its own mystery, aflame with the glory of God.And this:His mother gave him the excellent name of Placidus.
One thinks at once of a parson's dog collar.
I will admit, that my least favorite part of the book are the characters themselves.
None of them are particulary likeable or endearing, which is why I still love L.M. Montgomery so much more and can't give this book a solid five, despite the writing.
Honestly, my favorite characters are the secondary ones like Uncle Steven, Margaret, George and Jill.
The scene with George and daughter Caroline at the train station was probably one of the sweetest in the whole book.Needless to say, I really enjoyed the story, especially the ending when the children perform in the Christmas play.
