https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13497818-the-casual-vacancy
Basically, this is a real world where a strange man showing up at your family's doorstep at night is less likely to be a magical school groundskeeper but more likely your family's drug dealer who, by the way, may not be adverse to beating and raping you for good measure.(***) It's the world left for Dudley Dursley and friends after Harry gets whisked away to magicland, and it ain't pretty.
No matter how many times, and in how many interviews, Jo insisted over and over again that 'THIS IS NOT A HARRY POTTER BOOK NOR IS IT ANYTHING LIKE IT', a small part inside every fan, desperate for another book in the series (understandably), hoped for it anyway.
For me, there was absolute and complete closure which left me smiling and feeling content long after I finished reading (Always a sign of a good book!).I would like to reiterate that 'The Casual Vacancy' will not be for everybody.
However, unlike the Harry Potter books, this book will probably not be changing any lives any time soon (it certainly didn't change mine), but I'm glad to have read it, nonetheless.
(view spoiler)[ WARNING: CAPSLOCK ABUSE. BE WARNED.Accio new-JK-Rowling-book!...*nothing happens* I'm a muggle. *whimpers* DO YOU SEE WHAT THIS MEANS??? MY WHOLE LIFE IS A LIE!! *BAWLS*That's alright. That's fine. I'LL WAIT. I CAN WAIT! SIRIUS DID HIS WAITING! TWELVE YEARS OF IT! IN AZKABAN!*few minutes later*ARE YOU HAPPY, JK ROWLING? DO YOU SEE WHAT YOU’RE DOING TO MY LIFE? ARE YOU WATCHING? ARE YOU WATCHING ME FALL APART, JK ROWLING? DO YOU ENJOY SEEING ME LIKE THIS?! YOU HEARTLESS WITCH, YOU! ...I love you. No, really. Please forgive me. (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Not since Peyton Place has a writer so enthusiastically stripped the lace covers from small-town life to show the maggots of greed, lust, snobbery, and ambition squirming beneath—only Grace Metalious didn’t have Jo Rowling’s wicked sense of humor. The village of Pagford may be British, but the human foibles there are universal. Like the best social comedies, The Casual Vacancy features wit on top and outrage simmering below.
There is a quote in J.K. Rowling's newly released book, The Casual Vacancy, that sums up the tone of this novel perfectly."The mistake ninety-nine percent of humanity made, as far as Fats could see, was being ashamed of what they were, lying about it, trying to be somebody else.
This book focuses on the truths that exist between people in a community and, more importantly, the lies that tear them apart.The book starts with the death of Barry Fairbrother, a parish council member and much loved bloke about town.
Harry Potter ended five years ago and since then Rowling has gifted us with this unexpectedly wonderful book.
28 Sept. '12 I have to start by saying, that if you're expecting a (murder-)mystery novel; a plot submerged in conspiracies and political maneuverings, you will be sorely disappointed. If you're hoping to be transported to another magical adventure, you'll receive an even greater plummet back down to earth. Look. If you're going to read this just because it has JK Rowling's name splattered on there, I strongly advise you to sit back, take a look at your computer screen, and read that book descr
This book doesn't try to impress anybody, I think looking at the drab red and white cover would tell you that much, but it will elicit some sort of reaction depending on how you interpret things.The Casual Vacancy reminds me a lot of the Australian drama film, 2:37 (view spoiler)[which is a great, thought-provoking film, I must add (hide spoiler)].
**As a sidenote -- it might seem, if you read the novel, that he was the only redeemable character in this entire tale; and yet the entire purpose of The Casual Vacancy was to show us how rotten and imperfect people are once we get inside their head.
I was so excited to read a new J.K. Rowling book that I didn't care that The Casual Vacancy was nothing like her Harry Potter series.
(That's not to say that I secretly wished that The Casual Vacancy was some sort of spin off or sequel to Harry Potter.)Though J.K. Rowling's writing style is evident in The Casual Vacancy, nevertheless reading The Casual Vacancy felt like a form of torture.
I lacked any emotional attachment or connection with the characters in The Casual Vacancy.
I felt like The Casual Vacancy unnecessarily dirty and vulgar.
It is truly alarming how 5 star reviews I have seen that were written by people who have never even read The Casual Vacancy.
(A-) 81% | Very GoodNotes: Its eager vulgarity is akin to Disney actresses trying to shed good-girl reputations by over-correcting their next roles.
I can't see how she can continue that series.Rowling has said that this book is completely different from what HP had given us.
It's dark, dreary, a bit personal, and is solely for adults.
In fact, I won't mind spending a few months waiting to read it.But J.K. ROWLING IS WRITING ANOTHER BOOK!
WE GET TO HEAR ABOUT SOME ASPECTS OF HER PERSONAL LIFE THAT I WAS TOO LAZY TO GOOGLE/STALK MYSELF!
AND I'M SORRY FOR USING CAPLOCKS WHEN I CAN USE EXCLAMATION MARKS BUT THAT DOESN'T DO JUSTICE FOR THE FACT THAT ROWLING IS WRITING ANOTHER BOOK.
EDIT #2: I'll probably still give this a go out of curiosity. And because I do love our Queen J.K.EDIT: I am extremely disappointed in that cover. *cringe* It screams "no effort." I was excited, but after reading the synopsis and seeing the cover, not so much. Words can't express how excited I am about this book!Oh, yeah and the Dark Lord approves too.
Essentially, the entire idyllic town is festering over a cesspool of drugs, prostitution, self harm, rape, class divisions, abuse and sexism.
The book ends on a semi-positive note, with a hint of a hope that things will get better.
I'm glad I read this one but I don't think I'll pick up a copy.I went into this book knowing that this will be more like  Robert Galbraith than the typical  J.K. Rowling.
I can't imagine how disappointed people would be if they hoped for another Harry Potter - the teens in this book are not idyllic or innocent.
6.11 A casual vacancy is deemed to have occurred:(a) when a local councillor fails to make his declaration of acceptance of office within the proper time; or(b) when his notice of resignation is received; or(c) on the day of his death …Charles Arnold-BakerLocal Council Administration,Seventh EditionBarry Fairbrother, local councillor of Pagford lay dead on the ground in pool of his own vomit. His death creates a situation called ' casual vacancy '. A lot of people of people are willing to fill B
Moreover, whatever is being termed here as adult, is fucking reality of our society.Things that other reviewers have said (mostly those who have read around 50–pages and therefore abandoned):-crappy story of a town rocked by death of some Barry Fairbrother-no likeable character-simply not interesting; in other words, nothing like Harry PotterThe story of this book is not about Pagford and how it was affected by Barry’s death and definitely not about Barry.
والأهم صاحب المنصب والسلطة -أو الذي يسعي لها- ومسئوليته تجاه المجتمع ككلالرواية درامية فقط ، ربما ايضا هذا سبب عدم تحقيقها تقييمات عالية، اي انه لا جريمة قتل -نعم بدأت بوفاة رجل لكنها وفاة طبيعية- ولكن مازال بها عنصر تشويقي ..احداث كثيرة ومفاجأت دراميةمن خلال مجتمع صغير...مدينة صغيرة جائت تلك الرواية الكبيرةوالتي شبهها الكثيرين وقت صدورها -2012، انتخابات الامريكية بين رومني واوباما- بما يحدث في دول كبري كأمريكا نجحت جي كي رولينج فعليا بخلق مدينة صغيرة خيالية/واقعية اسمها "باجفورد" وستشعر فعلا انك تجوبها من شرقها لغربها طوال احداث الرواية ، كما يطاردك شكل اطلال الكاتدرئية في أخرالمدينةكما نجحت في خلق مجتمع كامل ستتعرف علي كل شخصية من شخصياته المتشابكة المتشعبة، وظروفها وبيئتها ، كما نجحت في ربط كل شخصيات المدينة بخيط واحد..
Now it seems to me that Ms Rowling decided to minimize any risk and to capitalize shamelessly on her previous success, selling readers something which is supposedly connected to the HP series but in reality as far away from those books as it can only be.
Taking into account how many mature readers have enjoyed the adventures of Harry and his friends, not to mention his enemies (yours truly among them) it seems like a completely rhetorical question, right?Final verdict:A decent novel about contemporary Britain but nothing outstanding you must or should read or you miss out on an important book.
It doesn't matter how pretty the prose one may read in a novel today, if you can find a book like this, one that will rip your heart open and expose it for the world to see, making you consider who you are as a person, you are lucky.Rowling is a brilliant writer, and with such fluency and articulation she shows her characters to be three-dimensional, giving the reader no reason to hate any of them, but no reason to love them either.
It felt like a laundry list of Important Issues that needed to be discussed in some way or another, wrapped up in the form of a book and in no way similar to the well-planned and marvelously plotted Harry Potter series.Of course there were some similarities.
Your call.--My pre-reading review, like I hadn't gone on for long enough already:UPDATE 10/2:Wow. A lot of negative reviews for The Casual Vacancy thus far, and an interview with Rowling in Entertainment Weekly bragging that yes, her book has sex scenes and other forms of adult content.I dunno.
Update 7/3/2012: Well... I can't lie. That is one seriously disappointing cover.A 2012 release date?!?!?!? SO EXCITED.Enough said.
My desire to read this book stemmed purely from a love of J.K. Rowling's previous work (You-Know-What). I knew to expect something different as it was stated categorically that her new book was for adults. Once the book was out, I heard a number of bad reviews. However I was not disappointed with this book. I can understand the responses because of the theme and some of the scenes are gritty with some unpleasantness, very real-life and honest. In  The Casual Vacancy,  J.K. Rowling has made a suc
My desire to read this book stemmed purely from a love of J.K. Rowling's previous work (You-Know-What).
I can understand the responses because of the theme and some of the scenes are gritty with some unpleasantness, very real-life and honest.
All of the characters in this book are flawed, some seriously.
I also loved the Dickensian approach she made here, of telling the story of a town, rather than a character.
If you enjoy reading a gritty story with characters anyone can relate to, then this is the book for you.Read it and judge for yourself :)
My overall take on what little I read is that it's probably a so-so book to the right audience when all's said and done, but would never receive the hype it's gotten had John Smith written this and not J.K. Rowling.My only recommendation to anyone (fan or not) interested in this book would be to test drive it at the library before forking over your hard earned dough for it, and read some of the reviews coming in from readers who actually finished the book.
This is character development at its finest and even Pagford the community, comes forward in that undertaking.
Rowling knows how to set a scene, letting it wash over you warm and slow as you read, and learn more about the people that live within these pages.
As readers, I’m guessing we all share in an instinctual knowledge that comes sometimes when we read.
Gripped and comfortable with the language, the flow, the pace, the place and the people: comfortable in the claw of a gifted story teller.
It's a credit to JKR that she underscores Krystal's personhood and at the same time paints an accurate picture of how the middle-class characters see this courageous, powerless girl as a threat or an object of half-disgusted fascination.In Harry Potter JKR magnifies class conflict into an all-out war between competing factions; in The Casual Vacancy the action is small-scale and the teenagers rebel and protest in very middle-class ways--getting drunk, smoking cigarettes and a little weed, scoping for sexual experience with that laser-like hormonal focus we probably all remember.
*4.5*I went into this book expecting to hate it, and I'll admit, it started off pretty slow. However, as the story progressed, each character grew more and more, and I became emotionally attached to a couple of them, Krystal Weedon in particular. This is one of those books that I know I'll fully enjoy the second time I read it, since now I know all the characters it'll be much easier to follow. Overall, amazing book.I also get sad whenever I listen to Umbrella now, which I keep doing for some reason.
Some little man, well littler than I used to be for sure, sitting with his netbook perched on his lap pillow querulously tapping out a chastisement of one of the world's richest, and most deserving of it, writers.Plus, I was wrong.This is in no way an inferior book, it's not badly crafted, it's got some snarky sparkly characters, and it's telling a story quite akin to the one in Peyton Place.
Now that is an achievement that most writers don't manage, making me think about their characters after I've put a book down.So why the mingy three stars?
Every time I learn it, it gets more valuable.
In the fallout of parish councillor Barry Fairbrother's death, the stories of a diverse cast of unhappy people are woven together: some likeable, most not.
The upcoming election for Barry's empty council seat fuels a sea of pettiness, gossip, and self-interest, and long-simmering resentments come to a head.
The realistic, distinctive internal dialogue is the strong point of the novel, creating fully-realized and 3D characters you come to know very well.
All the characters feel, as Fats would say, authentic.
Ultimately, it's a fairly dark novel, but all the same, I felt reluctant to let the characters go at the end.
And because it's by her, I can't believe I gave up.I feel bad comparing it to Harry Potter, because it's a totally different novel.
It's dark, dirty and realistic, even though I hesitate to use that last word, because the misery in this novel is, if anything, overdone.It does have a few funny phrases, but it's all pitch-black comedy, and there's not enough of it.I expected more in terms of language, even though, obviously, her theme is very different from her other work, and I admit I was disappointed.The town of Pagford is a picturesque English village in my mind, much like something out of Midsomer Murders.
Although I’ve already trolled my nemesis pal Ron 2.0 about reading this wrong, I’m not entirely convinced he did this time around.
I’m fairly certain J.K. Rowling won’t have to resort to prostitution for my crap review not generating an additional book sale.
However, it’s in pretty shit taste to name drop your own book so mad props to you for keeping it classy Uncle Stevie.)When I was a kid I looooooooved movies like Peyton Place (and someone please remind my geriatric self that would be a good selection for Banned Books Week) and I was so envious of Jimmy Stewart in Rear Window .
I was startled by how much I liked this book. I tried to go into it without expectation, without expecting it to be good or terrible, or like Harry Potter, or anything. But it grabbed me almost immediately and didn't let go.There is, of course, very little in common with Harry Potter. But that doesn't mean there is nothing in common. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
The novel overall reminded me of Hardy, you get this overview of a town and its large cast of characters.
The problems that I had with this was that, at the beginning I felt that Rowling just dumped all these characters on you, expecting that you just individually remember each person.
She must have thought, "oh I must get all of these character introductions out of the way so I can start the plot".
Also the novel's a bit long.
I felt that you could skim a couple of chapters and it really wouldn't make that much difference to the overall plot.
I really hope Rowling writes more novels like this.
I think J K Rowling is a brilliant writer and I would have bought this book if it were $117.99 and written in pencil on toilet paper.
It is distressing that readers punish the author for the greed of the publishers.
The book is gritty, dark, humorous, and too believable.
Just like Harry Potter, you feel as if you know these people.
I couldn’t put the book down.
As I mentioned before, I think Rowling is brilliant and this book solidifies my feelings.
She is an amazing author, with an incredible mind.
I would highly recommend the book.
Check out this review and others like it at BadAssBookReviews Casual Vacancy is a beautifully written work of art. Nothing has been missed in the story. No storyline was neglected. Every character and every scene is perfectly orchestrated to completion. Reading Casual Vacancy is like eating that perfect meal. It starts off with an explosion of flavor, akin to a beautifully prepared appetizer and from there Rowling guides the reader through a perfectly told story that is nicely sustained. A good
Harry Potter had such huge wide spread appeal that it makes sense that many of her former fans would give this a try or think about giving it a try, but Casual Vacancy – while nearly perfectly written in my opinion – is not a book that will have wide spread appeal.
For readers of the entire series of Harry Potter, I am confident what remains with them even years after reading the books are the characters – the depth of the individuals developed, their struggles with moral dilemmas, the depiction of how absolutely horrible human beings can be to others when given the opportunity, their personal losses and their small victories.
