https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13382062-lamb-to-the-slaughter
"It's the old story," he said. "Get the weapon, and you've got the man."  Woah! This is a kind of short story one wouldn't expect from a children author. But Roald Dahl nailed it so good. I loved this! CHARACTERS Husband and wife: Patrick and Mary Maloney  PLOT It's a crime story. When Mary's husband comes home after his detective job, he is acting very unusual. He tells her about leaving her for good and will be taking care of her. But she is very shocked and kills her husband. Then she plots
This is a kind of short story one wouldn't expect from a children author.
Husband and wife: Patrick and Mary Maloney
It's a crime story.
When Mary's husband comes home after his detective job, he is acting very unusual.
He tells her about leaving her for good and will be taking care of her.
But she is very shocked and kills her husband.
Then she plots a plan to escape from this murder.As far as the crime is concerned, it's a perfect one.
The way she killed him, the way she hid that weapon is utterly shocking, amazing aaand funny!
This a perfect short story.
I know this story!
And I am delighted to read it properly (you can, too, here).It all happens one afternoon, when the husband comes home and acts all weird and grumpy.
His pregnant wife does her best to start a conversation with him, and fails.
After two strong drinks, he finally decides to tell her he is leaving her (or so I think - this conversation is only implied).
Next, the wife experiences a breakdown and kills him.The interesting part is how she does it!
And I'm sure you must have heard this story before.
Go, read it anyway!
It will be worth the 5-10 minutes you spend reading it.
Oh, Mary Maloney. You are a clever woman! And no shame. Mary has just pulled off the perfect murder and the weapon is made to good use.I have a weakness for dark humor and when I'm not expecting it, it's even better. I have only read James and the Giant Peach by Ronald Dahl which I liked, but his adult fiction hits the mark. This short story is only 18 pages, but very entertaining.
خوندنش کیف داد :)یک مجموعه داستان کوتاه متفاوت و قابل توجه و جالب
⭐⭐⭐⭐  EXCEEDS EXPECTATIONS This short story is an absolute masterpiece.
i read this when i was nine and it was the only roald dahl i liked so i think this sums up who i am, and who i have always been, as a person
I giggled at the end too. All the stars! I love how twisted Roald Dahl is. Sigh. Short and sweet. Highly recommended!
Lamb to the Slaughter by Roald Dahl5 starsThis is one of the most fascinating stories I've ever read.
I want to thank one of my best friends for recommending this short story to me because without this odd recommendation and conversation I wouldn't have found this spooky story.
I think my personal favorite thing about this story was the character shift from perfect, content suburban housewife to enraged, passionate killer to a cold, calculating woman desiring to get away with murder.
This is the title of the first chapter of 'The Storied Life of A.J. Fikry'. You can find a copy of this short story here It will take you about 5 minutes to read it. It is very good, and makes me want to locate a copy of 'Someone Like You'.
این کتاب شامل 6 داستان کوتاه هست که هر کدوم پایان نسبتا" غافلگیر کننده و جالبی داشت
A super short story, but it totally counts as 1 book, right? Right.
Just finished this one for school and, well, it was interesting. Loved the writing, and I didn't expect this to be a 'perfect murder' story, so that was surprising. But a good kind of surprise.
fantastic.
Câu chuyện của họ đang rất đẹp cho đến một ngày Patrick nói với cô một tin không hay.
Lúc này, Mary đã xử lý ông chồng bằng một cái đùi cừu, và cô đã qua mặt được cả những người đồng nghiệp cảnh sát vốn rất sắc bén của Patrick.Câu chuyện này cho thấy tác hại của việc chọc giận phụ nữ là như thế nào :)) Khi một người phụ nữ bị tổn thương thì e là không việc gì cô ấy không thể làm, kể cả hành động giống như Mary đã làm ấy.
Lamb to the slaughter was very interesting and jumpy.I liked the bit when the wife hit her husband on the head and admitted that she didn't do anything.I also liked the bit when she lied to the cops cause it makes me feel like reading more until she gets caught. I've never liked a book before and reading Lamb to the slaughter was AWESOME.
Mary Maloney was obviously a genius murderer.
She committed the perfect crime & had the police literally dispose of the evidence.
This is only the second "adult" fiction work I have read of Roald Dahl, and to say the least, I am not at all disappointed.
At about 15 pages, I read through it like it was more like 5 pages.
Such a great read!
If you think Roald Dahl was nothing more than a children's story writer, I highly recommend delving into his more mature works, you definitely won't be disappointed!
Lamb to the slaughter is a short story about a lady named Mary who has been treated badly by her partner.
She finds a leg of lamb and smacks him over the head with it.
The story shows an interesting way of how to get away with murder.
Mary has to find out how to solve her problem and get away with it.
I found it really interesting and I wanted to know what happened next.
But do not to try and copy what she did (smacking her husband over the head in any way!)
A perfect way to do a murder. Shit! Thanks for the idea
One of great short stories by Roald Dahl.
Almost whatever I have read by this author can be considered as brilliant unique tales.
Here we meet Mary; Mrs. Maloney who is married to a detective and expecting her delivery in next few months.
On every working day and near the five pm, she waited patiently her husband’s arrival from work.
On that particular day they had a plan to have dinner out but when he said “I’ve already told you, don’t make supper for me.
I’m going out”, she simply walked behind him and swung him with the big frozen lamb.A very short story but very engaging and exiting one.
Part of an awesome curriculum in our English literature for 6th grade. Gotta love a school that thinks this, The Lottery, The Monkey's Paw, and The Most Dangerous Game were good pieces for us to read. YES!
Hahahaha :pThis one is so creepy. It's been haunting me like crazy. I felt the same creepiness while reading A Rose for Emily.The creative writing comes easily to Roald Dahl. Especially the paradoxical conclusive phrases that he uses in almost every story. He just KNOWS how to create a mystery out of plain simple story and I love him for that.I wish I could read him back in my childhood. My imagination would've touched limits :p
Have been reading Roald Dahl since I was 10 years old and never realised the horror in his books! I am 18 years old reading Lamb to the slaughter and I got goosebumps! Excellent author. Witty short story
This short story is about a woman patiently waiting for her husband to get home. When he arrives he gives her some shocking news that changes the course of both their lives. I liked the writing and there was just enough story so that it felt complete.
This was the best book I have ever read in my life and i would totally read this amazing book again #dope
The perfect crime!What criminal wouldn't wish for it. Mary Maloney, you're one smart woman.
This story was also very interesting because it had a very good Plot Twist to it and I personally think it was a very detailed story, unlike others.
Story 1 for my 'AJ Fikry project'..... Typical Roald Dahl- A darkly wicked and comic little tale of the perfect crime.... find it here http://www.classicshorts.com/stories/...
Mrs Maloney loves her husband Patrick, until, one day, after a big reveal she doesn't anymore and acts on impulse. Clever. Deceitful. Witty.
Roald Dahl the man who brought us the BFG and other great reads did not disappoint with this book. A classic story which I read as a child. Brilliant to revisit and read a story which is dark and twisted. --- Diane ™
Read as part of the Storied Life of A. J. Fikry short story list.
