https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/293101.The_Amityville_Horror
3. Butch DeFeo was later tried for and found guilty of the murders of his family, and was sentenced to the Green Haven Penitentiary.
The house was resold following the murders and probate.
Among the owners since the murders were a couple named George and Kathy Lutz, who occupied the house in late 1975.
The Lutzes later collaborated with an author to write this "true account" of their stay in the house.
The novels which followed this one claim the house is located on a Native American burial ground.
It is a work of fiction, which the Lutz's lawyer later suggested they dreamed up after a night of drinking.
It gets one star because I think it was written by a twelve year old.
End of chapter cliffhanger and oh my goodness can you believe what's happening?
And even if this was in the fiction section it wouldn't be worth your time because it feels like a story a bunch of Boy Scouts tell each other around a campfire, not something to actually read.That's the gist of the story with minor embellishments.
Perhaps if someone else wrote this book, I may have cared a little more.
Pick a different book to scare you this year.

Father Frank has a BAD FEELING.
So then the SLutzes move in on the 18th-23rd-18th of December and then weird stuff starts happening in their house like the windows opening and it being cold.
Then George was all like "LET MY PEOPLE GO!" and then Gionfriddo sat quietly in his police car with the lights off watching in a non-creeper way while George acted all "like a lunatic" but later Gionfriddo said it was OK because they were closing the windows so he drove away with his lights off...
totally not like a creeper, I said!
Literalmente, "It" de Stephen King fue el que más miedo me dio, y actualmente sumo a la lista "The Amityville Horror".Tiene una lectura super ágil por el hecho de que narra puntualmente las situaciones, sin demasiado decorado, la forma en la que sucedieron, de qué manera lo vieron y vivieron los Lutz.
Aproveché a leer este libro durante unos días en los que permanecí sola en casa durante la noche, y sinceramente fue de las mejores experiencias que pude tener.
To be honest, I don’t remember a whole lot.
The history of the house and the mystery behind what actually happened there is part of the allure of THIS book.
And I could see why others might think they made it all up.Sometimes there are things that are beyond explanation.
I did enjoy the book and especially the narration.
The weird part of me is that reading a book like this knowing it is a real place makes me want to go buy the house and see what happens.
"Do you think it's haunted?""No way, I don't believe in ghosts.”It seems the reading world is clearly divided about this book.
I would like to add another question to the equation: does it actually matter?To some extent, it does.
The extent to which this novel will scare you correlates directly to (a)whether you believe the events depicted here are true and (b) your religious orientation.
It needn’t be a wasted opportunity – you have an imagination, don’t you?I will say this for the subject matter: if stories like The Exorcist and Rosemary's Baby scared you, this book will too.
I didn’t actually believe all this stuff; I just liked reading about it.
I guess because it’s been on my mind lately, reading this book, and then yesterday with the death of William Peter Blatty and  this oddly timed report  on Father Martin.
But time has a way of minimizing even the most frightening memories, and looking back, I’m convinced I was just sleep deprived and hormonal.
It was impossible for me to read this simply as a work of fiction, and to review it, I had to look at it from all angles.
First, it is fiction masquerading as fact.
I am convinced that Mr. Anson had some kind of encyclopedia on hauntings and as he flipped through it he said, "Swarm of flies?
page eleven." It is so sloppily put together and badly written that I'm sure Mr. Anson realized it would be no more than a bottom shelf remainder unless there was some juicy "real" paranormal tie-in.
There are some perfectly good books out there on paranormal sightings and lots of great haunted house novels like Shirley Jackson's The Haunting of Hill House or Richard Matheson's Hell HousE that will thrill you.

It was slowly creeping me out, and when I got to the part where George Lutz sees a creepy pig behind his daughter in her bedroom window in the middle of the night I said "nope".
Things are quietly creepy, and when one night George goes out to the boat house and turns around to see his 5-year-old daughter standing in the window with a pig behind her, the creepy goes up a notch.
For 28 days.If the things that George and Kathleen Lutz claim happened to them at 112 Ocean Avenue really did happen, then I can't imagine any sane person who would stay in that house for 28 days.
Worst of all, a marching band paraded through their living room at three a.m. All these horrors were orchestrated by a pig demon named Josie (name changed to protect the pig demon’s identity).
Other Amityville Horror movies, albeit fictional, followed in a sort of Amityville feeding frenzy (do remember that the setting for “Jaws”, Amity, was based on Amityville), and the original was even remade with Melissa George playing Margot Kidder, er, Mrs. Lootz.
There was no book to bear witness to the burden these people bore, so subsequently no movies or merchandise.
I can only imagine what this story would have been like if written by a true master of the genre, say a Stephen King.ETA: I had to rethink this.
I felt wrong giving something this poorly written a rating of 3-stars when I've been so harsh on several other books.
I've given 1 and 2 star ratings to books that were much better written than this thing.
The writing should be at a 1-star, but I'll stand by liking the story well enough to say "it's ok" on the final rating.
Ahh, I'll stick with the movie. It's better and scarier. =)(The original! Not that dreadful remake.)
Te mata de la ansiedad y de los nervios.Yo soy una escéptica por naturaleza, pero aún así logró impresionarme, alterarme y me hizo pensar en que yo simplemente perdería la cabeza ante un fenómeno así.
Especialmente si consideramos que desde el momento en que se mudaron les empezó a costar salir hasta a hacer las compras y a trabajar.Edito 2: dormí 3 horas y mal por culpa de este libro.
No de miedo, pero yo sufro ansiedad y sus últimas escenas me provocaron TANTA que por suerte pasé una noche de mierda, taquicardia y falta de aire incluidos.
En Aquí vive el horror apenas pasemos las primeras paginas, nos encontraremos con la aclaración de que la siguiente historia que vamos a leer es una historia que sucedió realmente y que la información de los hechos fue recolectada de los mismos protagonistas que han padecido el terror que sucedió en la casa de Amityville.
Nos aclara que la familia DeFeo y la familia Lutz existen y que ellos mismos han narrado estos hechos para que luego sean publicados en este libro que tenemos aquí.En esta historia nos encontraremos con la familia Lutz, compuesta por un matrimonio y tres hijos.
MI OPINIÓN EN : 😱 https://youtu.be/xPYDiVFaaVYAPOYAME SUSCRIBIENDOTE A MI CANAL 😬🤗❤📚No soy una persona que se sugestióne facilmente, pero me peturbo un poco desde la mitad del libro. El inicio se me hizo poco creible, el saber que la familia Lutz existe y vivió cosas terribles dejando todo atrás para salir del horror que los amenazaba me asusto un poco, muchas cosas raras existen en el mundo y hasta cuando uno vive de cerca algo paranormal hace de estos libros como algo que en verdad pueda ocurr
MI OPINIÓN EN : 😱 https://youtu.be/xPYDiVFaaVYAPOYAME SUSCRIBIENDOTE A MI CANAL 😬🤗❤️📚No soy una persona que se sugestióne facilmente, pero me peturbo un poco desde la mitad del libro. El inicio se me hizo poco creible, el saber que la familia Lutz existe y vivió cosas terribles dejando todo atrás para salir del horror que los amenazaba me asusto un poco, muchas cosas raras existen en el mundo y hasta cuando uno vive de cerca algo paranormal hace de estos libros como algo que en verdad pueda ocurrir.
I think that Anson also unwittingly revealed an angle for why the Lutzes would lie about something like this too based on a couple of things that George was upset about (IRS audit, paying a lot of money for the home, etc.).
Kathy I felt detached from a lot in the book because we don't really get a sense of her until things progress further along.
The two of them felt very cut off from me as a reader.The priest in the story didn't come off well at all (he pretty much leaves the Lutzes to their fate) and that whole aspect didn't really make a lot of sense.
I took a star off because it wasn't scary.If you are unfamiliar with the Amityville Horror, this story is about the Lutz family.
What could be a fabrication, is their account of the 28 days they lived in their new home.George and Kathy, along with their 3 children Chris, Danny and Missy were very excited about this new and very spacious house.
They knew, prior to purchasing the home, that the Dafoe family was murdered in the house.
George and Kathy knew a family was murdered in the house a year before.
This book was definitely horrific, though kind of cheesy at some parts. What I enjoyed much more than the horror itself was the vibrant imagery, and the way that this Kodak moment family's subtle trip towards insanity is described. Definitely worth reading if you're a fan of all the nostalgia of 2oth century horror such as Audrey Rose, Magic or The Shining.
The Amityville Horror is said to be a work of non-fiction as it is the story of the Lutz family and the 28 days they spent in what was supposed to be their dream home.
The house on 112 Ocean Avenue in Amityville, New York already had a bad name when the DeFeo family was murdered there by the oldest son, Ronald “Butch” DeFeo, Jr. in 1974.
But the strange occurrences that happened in the house would have been more terrifying to have actually lived it, to have felt the wrongness of the house, and that’s simply something that couldn’t have been conveyed through the page.
In December 1975 the Lutz family moved into a 1924 farm house in Amityville that had been the scene of a grisly murder.
In January of 1976 they moved out the house citing demonic activity as the reason for their short stay.
Over the course of the book Jay Anson lists out a number of clues that point at paranormal and perhaps even demonic activity.
We've had our own series of strange events in our home but we've managed to stay nearly five years.
Other strange smells?
However, after reading it, I simply could not get certain images out of my head.
well, that summer was a hot one and my room downstairs doesn't get hit with cool air from our AC, so I tended to come up into our living room and sleep on the couch right under the AC fan.
The problem was there is a staircase right in that room and for months when I would come up to sleep there I would close my eyes and be too terrified to open them for fear of seeing some white demon ghost thing coming to get me.
I have never seen so much disdain and anger directed towards a BOOK as I do in some of these reviews for The Amityville Horror.
If you in no way, shape or form believe in this event or the supernatural, why did you read this book?
I mean, knowing things you've never seen would mean that you have the very supernatural type powers you so vehemently claim aren't real.
But as far as the book is concerned, the actual story I read?
Well, I'll say this, whether it's all true, partially true or none of it's true.....it was a fun ghost story to read.
En diciembre de 1975, el matrimonio Lutz y sus tres hijos se mudaron al 112 de Ocean Avenue, en Amityville, casa en la que hacia pocos meses se había cometido un atroz crimen: Ronald De Feo asesinó una noche a los seis miembros de su familia con un rifle.
Desde el primer día empezaron a sucederles cosas inexplicables y cada vez más terroríficas, hasta que, viendo que su vida peligraba, tuvieron que huir con lo puesto.‘Aquí vive el horror: La casa maldita de Amityville’ (The Amityville Horror, 1977), de Jay Anson, expone los hechos tal y como sucedieron, sin exageraciones.
Eu já tinha assistido o filme e já sabia por alto como que era, confesso que muitas coisas eu não lembrava, mas a experiência de LER é mais assustadora.
Além disso, quando falam que a história realmente aconteceu me deixa um pouco mais desesperado...Apesar de todo o desespero, eu tive uma dificuldade com a escrita.
Por exemplo, em várias frases aleatórias ele usava ponto de exclamação.
Eu faço isso de exagerar na exclamação quando estou escrevendo um post no Facebook, sabe?
Enfim, estranho.Eu recomendo a leitura porque é entretenimento puro, mas ainda tô na dúvida se a história que aconteceu na casa foi exatamente isso..
I need to read this again and do a fresh review!
As a teenager I would read my dad's book collection, he was big into horror, this one was very scary especially as based on truth and Images from this book stayed with me for years!
That pigs head OMG!So I promise I’ll read it soon for you.
Let’s face it - Haunted houses with evil entities that are REAL is scary shit right?
But I’m praying for your souls.” If you can’t wait for a fresh review just read this anyway as it’s really good (well dark) stuff.
No estuvo mal, me gustó leer lo que ocurrió en esa casa y conocer un poco más a fondo los detalles. 3.5/5
How can The Devil explain what Communism exists for?
Long-ago read. Never really came away convinced that it was "A True Story".
