https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13376.The_House_of_the_Scorpion
This book has been on my goodreads shelf since pretty much the beginning of time... so why on earth have I been wasting my time with every other poorly-constructed dystopian world instead of reading this? I have absolutely no excuse: I own a copy, it's won practically every award going, and all my reviewer friends have been constantly singing its praises. Perhaps I am way more influenced by title and cover than I like to admit - though there's nothing actually wrong with either, I still feel li
Plus, is it that hard to do a little research on a country's culture, traditions and legends (etc.)?In The House of the Scorpion we are immediately introduced to a boy called Matt who is a clone that was grown in a cow and harvested.
But Matt is treated by others as an animal, they do not see how anything grown in a cow can be human and some of the treatment he endured really pissed me off, never mind the fact that his genetic make-up is identical to El Patron's.Matt questions himself and the world around him throughout the book.
It is a Newbery and Printz honor book and winner of the National Book Award.In the House of the Scorpion, Nancy Farmer tells the story of Matt, the clone of 142-year-old El Patron, dictator of Opium, a country between the United States and Aztlan.
These three people see the humanity in him and teach him to be a good person.Farmer does a masterful job of creating the world that Matt lives in from the cloning technology to the old fashioned ways on the estate which is designed to replicate the Mexico of El Patron’s youth over 100 years ago.
A really hit and miss book, with some terrific ideas and terrible plotting.The main character, Matt, is a clone of the world's biggest drug kingpin, the 140+ year-old El Patron.
The characters are a mixed bag as well: they're likable and believable except when they're not, and turn from fully-realized creations to cardboard cut-outs whenever they have to do something that advances the story.This isn't to say that I didn't like the book, necessarily.
I just wish that more time had been spent developing the characters, the world, and the mess of ideas that were introduced.
But as Matt gets older he begins to learn more about his life and his country's history that conflicts with what he has been told.It's a tale of coming-of-age set against a survival/dystopian storyline with really complex material.
But I can imagine reading this book in middle school and having really great discussions surrounding it.Apparently there is a sequel that I was told you don't have to read to get the whole story, but I'm very curious to see what happens next.
So I plan on picking that one up eventually.For fans of The Chaos Walking Trilogy and other dystopian/sci-fi/survival stories, this is a really great read, and I would recommend it.
It is a compelling journey, even though its sentiment isn't particularly new to me - I've read Never Let Me Go and watched The Island.But, thankfully, there is more to distinguish The House of the Scorpion from similar stories.First, the novel is set in Mexico (well, a future version of it).
I was bored, I didn't feel like those pages (3-months of Matt's life worth) connected well thematically with the overreaching story arc, I didn't think they were necessary, I didn't think that a whole set of new characters (including villains) needed to be introduced so late in the story, and I surely didn't think that anti-socialist rants needed to come into play.
One of the best young adult novels I've ever read.
This is the story of Matt, a clone.
At one point, I think she is going to explore this knowledge further, but I ended up being convinced that she just doesn't KNOW that even PHYSICAL traits are affected by environmental factors.
Why is Steven "okay?" How does Matt know this?
It was completely out of place.Then....the story devolved further....and went a place that left me completely flummoxed and angry that I wasted my time with this horrible written dreck (Matt at one point says: I was, quite literally, the underdog.
DUMBEST BOOK EVER!
The book is chock-full of evil-doers, some of whom are despicable, some of whom are loved, and one, the most interesting character of them all, Tam Lin, who is a compelling mixture of sin and repentance, loyalty and betrayal, an evil-doer who also manages to be a good man.It felt like after presenting all her ideas and laying out the moral dilemmas, the author kind of ran out of steam and dashed off an ending that, I suppose, she figured would tie up all the loose ends, but really leaves just about everything hanging.For instance, in a workhouse/orphanage setting that makes the Dickens orphans look positively privileged (at least they get genuine gruel), we are let to believe that all abuses will be corrected once one of the orphans manages to get word out that they are being mistreated.
It is a young adult book about, I kid you not, every social policy and -ism you can think of--drugs, slavery, cloning, classism, socialism, EVERYTHING2.
I read all 400 or something pages in a day3.
The story is really unique and I wasn't really sure what was going to happenAnyways, it is basically the story of the clone of the biggest drug lord in a country solely made up of drug farms.
A few people on the book's goodreads page mentioned that the writing was not amazing but, to tell the truth, I never really noticed.
And I read.
But underneath Matt felt a hollowness. He understood he was only a photograph of a human, and that meat he wasn’t really important. Photographs could lie forgotten in drawers for years. They could be thrown away.  You know that moment just before you’ve entirely woken up, when you’re dreaming, but you’re conscious that you’re dreaming, so you’re hovering somewhere between sleep and wakefulness? (view spoiler)[Or is that just me? (hide spoiler)] That’s the closest I can get to describing the exp
The world of this book blends the familiar with the strange, the safe with the sinister, in a singularly unsettling and powerful way.
I was still thinking about the characters and the things that had happened to them, but most of all, the extremely disquieting questions this story poses.
(hide spoiler)]The House of the Scorpion does require you to just roll with it, for want of a better expression, with respect to some elements of the story.
While I did become entirely engaged in the plot, I can’t say that this was due to a particular sense of connection with the characters.
After the first 80 pages of slow moving material, I finally became vested in the characters and thought the novel finally caught on.
I think this novel probably does change the face of Sci-Fi for MG audiences, because the novel tackles some pretty high-brow concepts (modern slavery, cloning, organ harvesting, Communism, Marxism, Drugs and drug trafficking, addiction, adoption, forgiveness) and like Lois Lowry's book The Giver Farmer does not shy away from these complexities.I appreciated the way that Farmer finishes the book, unlike Lowry who closes with ambiguity, Farmer lays it all out on the table.
The book for me as an adult probably would get a 3.5 stars, but I thought Farmer handled the material for her intended audience very well, hence the five star rating.
The house of the Scorpion is a book about a clone named Matteo Alacran.
He meets a girl he likes, named Maria, who also likes him, but he is treated like dirt from all of the other people living in the house.
For six months he lives like an animal, until the day Maria's father sends El Patron a letter explaining to him what has been happening to his clone.
When your reading this book it's so intense so you feel like you are part of the book, and that is my opinion of The house of the Scorpion.
It's chockfull of great issues to be explored in class discussions and writing assignments.
Farmer creates a dystopian world that is believable due to the fact that it is based on so many of the issues we are dealing with today: illegal drugs, powerful drug cartels, illegal immigration, and cloning.
Our kids would not find it hard, I believe, to make the connections between the themes in this book and those of the classic literature we read.
We would also be able to explore these topics in more depth through non-fiction pieces during our research unit.Aside from the bounty of educational uses, it's just a great story that keeps you turning the pages!
This book was very slow and boring at the beginning, but as I went on I started really enjoying it. I recommend it for people, but if you do decide to read it give it time before you decide you don't like it.
Opijum je kao zemlja u sporazumu sa svim zemljama - oni proizvode drogu i ne salju je u zemlje partnerice, a u isto vrijeme zauzvrat, kontroliraju granice.I to je otprilike dio koji mogu shvatiti...Valja uzeti u obzir da sam bice potpuno svjesno cemu YA ili knjizevnost za djecu sluzi - ona uvijek moralizira, educira ili nazovi kako hoces, a to pokusava na bezbroj nacina da malom bicu pripremi teren da jednog dana postane Covjek koji nije nuzno zaljubljen u vlastiti odraz.Kad nekome pokusam objasniti kakve knjige volim, obicno se zapetljam dok je sustina svega da stil mora biti prekrasan, a ako je prica i naivna - mora bas biti iz srca.
Following Matt's journey in the course of this book was one full of many ups and downs, tragedies as well as triumphs, and I honestly haven't come across many MG/YA dystopian novels that were as well done as this.Full review:Nancy Farmer's "The House of the Scorpion" was a story that took years for me to pick up since its original publication date.
And there are relatively few narratives that I stop to savor every page because the writing and the characters connect with me so much that I don't want it to end.This novel was one of those books for me personally.The main character of this novel, Matt, has a difficult journey for him from the very get go of things.
I guess I kind of like reading anyone who really has the feel of a setting, and I think Nancy Farmer has that here.
This didn’t feel like that, and it was refreshing to read.
The book doesn’t dwell on it or make it a big point, but I feel like that is a complex issue, and it was a simplistic way to address it.My second complaint is somewhat similar.
Many people have complained that the last section of the book feels like an odd tack-on to the rest of the story.
Essentially it’s a middle school to young adult book but the beauty of it is that it can be read on so many levels that anyone from about age 12 and up can get something out of this book.
The book touches upon many themes: religion, politics, ethics, cloning, slavery, the drug trade, corruption and probably a few others that I have not mentioned.The story is beautifully written and is told in the voice of a young child.
Later on in the story, he moves into the drug lord’s home and is given an indulgent childhood.
There are some dark undertones to this book and while El Patron looks like a doting father, something sinister is afoot.
It’s an excellent young adult novel about a young man, Matt, who discovers he is ‘clone’ in a futuristic society somewhere between America and Mexico.
How Matt—cloned to be the spare ‘parts’ for a wealthy elderly man—grows into adolescence and discovers the truth of his identity, learns who his friends and foes are, the rules of the system in which he lives and how to survive is an incredible story.
It really helps you look at human life and ask what it means to be a human being.
It’s the kind of book which will have you asking all kinds of questions and considering many things you might not have thought about before.Highly recommended.
First things first: I need to mention I received this book in Goodreads giveaways.
The plot: Matteo Alacran (Matt most of the time) is a clone of a very powerful drug lord El Patron who was created to provide replacement organs for the latter.
As a result Matt's brain was not destroyed unlike other clones' that were created for other people.
The plot itself is interesting if slow in the beginning and way too fast in the end.
I already mentioned plot moving way too slow in the beginning and being rushed in the end.
I had forgotten how intensely and wonderfully creative this book was.
I had forgotten the beauty of the language used in it.
I don't want to give anything away but it is certainly an interesting take on the human experience.
In fact, everything in this book comes back to the question: What is it that makes us human?I can't say for certain whether all the questions are answered, so you'll just have to find out for yourself.
But I can certainly say that I had a great time attempting to find answers for myself inside this wildly imaginative book.My only disappointment with this book was that I didn't feel the emotions as strongly as I would have liked.
A very beautiful story and had just stunning visualization. At one point in the story, Matt the main character, on a mountain, and the word choice is breath taking. A great choice is when the author is talking about the animal noises in the night, and the author describes it as 'wild music'. She also gives you a great story of gaining power and being able to control it, while also not letting it get out of hand.
The “main villain” (I don’t really call any of them the main villain because without even one childhood it wouldn’t seem the same) is lovable, and by the time he does something bad (though you expected it), you are sad.Characters:Matt is a kind, curious, human character.
What I enjoyed/didn’t:The was no cussing other than 1 or 2 c and 3 or 4 d, though this was a young adult book.
This book was young adult for themes, not cussing/romance/ect.The story was realistic because (view spoiler)[ El Patrón is the leader of the Opium fields, yet he isn’t a nice guy as Matt thinks.
Matt is a clone of the drug lord el patron.
el patron has had clones before matt, he uses them for orgam transplants so he can live long.
Tam Lin had a history that got el patron to like him as a body gaurd.
I do think if they do have clones they will not be availible to people other than rich people like El Patron.
I also think that clone will be treated like matt is by rosa, as a monster or beast.I believe that there could not be eejits, because it is not scientificly possible.
You can also view this review, and others, on my blog thatgirlbookwormI'm so happy that I've been reading such unique books lately!
I feel like there are a lack of books that are set in Mexico and it was refreshing to read a little bit about their culture and urban legends and things.
Thankfully he was not in a lot of the book but I am hoping that by the second book this will be easier to read or less of an issue for Ton Ton.Such a creative and unique book!Book Challenge book #37 - A Book Set In The Future
In this case, the future is ruled by a Mexican druglord who clones himself in order to harvest organs when he needs them.
Science meets social issues in Nancy Farmer's books.
This could be compared with other teen books like Feed by Anderson, The Uglies/Pretties series by Westerfield or The Ear The Eye and The Arm, also by Farmer for her look into the future of Africa.
Despite the fact that the setting is in the future and involves some very imaginative situations, the book is written so well that it's not difficult to imagine the scenes.
Going into this book, I was not all that excited because I normally don't read Sci-Fi books. When I started reading I was getting reeled in by the authors use of figurative language and suspense buildup. I was attached to certain characters and by the end of the book I felt like Tam Lin and I were old friends. This book is a great read for you if you enjoy reading about struggles, setbacks and rewards. House of the Scorpion has a little bit of all of those.
They treat Matt with love and respect, like a human.
Celia looks after Matt as if he was her own child, and Tam Lin considers Matt his friend and often takes him on picnics and teach him about nature.I like the ending because it's happy (I CANNOT STAND SAD ENDINGS) and everything turns out to be alright after all.This book is good, but I can't really say that I enjoyed it, because THOSE PEOPLE WHO TREAT MATT WITH CRUELTY MADE MY HEART BREAK.
He is trapped in the Alacran estate, a large mansion filled with people that have a personal distaste for him.
Although he does make a few friends, such as Celia, a maid in the Alacran estate that treats Matt like her own son, Tam Lin, one of El Patron’s bodyguards, and Maria, a very emotional girl that has a large mouth and a big heart.
And although El Patron is very kind to Matt, he has a wicked plan in store for him, and it has something to do with Patron being over 140 years old…Finally, a novel worthy of five stars!
