https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/571555.While_My_Pretty_One_Sleeps
Captivating read! compelling,interesting and great storytelling. One of my favorite books by this author (paperback!)
"Que pode a Primavera fazer, a não ser renovar a necessidade que tenho de ti?""Enquanto a Minha Bela Dorme" é o primeiro livro que leio da Mary Higgins Clark e quando cheguei ao final, questionei-me porque demorei tanto tempo a finalmente decidir conhecer a autora.A história tem como pano de fundo o competitivo mundo da moda, que ao contrário do que dá a entender, nada tem de verdadeiramente belo.
Junta-se uma pequena, mas significativa contribuição da policia e outra, um pouco maior, da Máfia italiana e temos uma história com suspense, mistério, amor e humor.A autora dá-nos a conhecer, de um forma intima, a vida da dona de uma loja de roupa de designers e do seu pai, que para além da casa partilham a dor da perda da mãe e esposa.
I liked the story but it wasn't as exciting as some of Clark's other works.
The plot revolves around the death of Ethel Lambston, the best-selling author who wrote shocking articles about famous personalities.
Myles Kearny, the ex-police Commissioner gets involved in the case when it is discovered that Ethel was killed in the same manner that his wife had been --- slit in the throat.
As they work to find the killer they discover just how close to home the case really is.Every time you think you know who the killer is the story takes you on a roller coaster ride of wonder and suspicion.
Mais um cartucho explodido da Mary Higgins Clark que não me deixou desiludido. Vários suspeitos com o propósito de nos deixar mais baralhados. Mas desta vez acertei logo a meio do livro quem seria o assassino... Basta estar atento que uma frase revela tudo! ;)
Got to page 56 and quit reading. VERY boring!
Εύπεπτη ιστοριούλα γεμάτη χορταστικά αμερικανικά στερεότυπα.Η πανέμορφη, πανέξυπνη, εξαιρετικά επιτυχημένη και πάμπλουτη Νηβ Κέρνυ, κόρη του συνταξιούχου, πρώην διευθυντή της αστυνομίας της Ν.
Όταν μια πελάτισσα της εξαφανίζεται, η αυτοσχέδια ντετέκτιβ ξαμολιέται να τη βρει, με αρωγό τον πατέρα της και, στην πορεία, μαντέψτε ....
Τί τέλεια όλα!Η εξαφανισμένη είναι μια γρια στρίγγλα και μισή αλλά όταν βρίσκεται δολοφονημένη, ο αναγνώστης ανακαλύπτει σταδιακά ότι ήταν ένας άγγελος!Ο δολοφόνος εποφθαλμιά και τη Νηβ αλλά δεν έχει υπολογίσει την πολλαπλή σύμπραξη δυνάμεων η οποία θα οδηγήσει σε ένα ολοκληρωτικό happy end και στην πανωλεθρία του Κακού!Για audio book ήταν μια χαρά ...
I really enjoy Mary Higgins Clark's writing style.
The reader learns exactly what happens, what people say to each other, what characters are thinking.
We see what they are wearing and what their surroundings are like.
The characters are all interesting and understandable--even the villains.
This book is no different.
Set in the fashion industry in New York with characters that include the retired police commissioner, a freelance writer (muckraker) and a publisher, as well as the main character--the owner of a posh fashion shop, the book is rich in both character and action.
I really enjoy Mary Higgins Clark I find that I have to have enough time to read because I get so involved in the book that I need to have everything right with the world again before I can stop reading.
Too much quick certain true love for my taste.Clark also over uses some ten cent words in five cent spots, such as solicitous, she uses that one 3 times in the same page and a half span.If this were my first foray into her universe of books, I would probably not read any others. There are too many authors out there who are better than this.
Pretty good but I like her latest stuff better. This one you can tell was written in the 80s as CSI has really developed further now past simple fingerprinting & lie detection tests. Plus it was pretty obvious from about a quarter of the way in who the killer was. Still, I do love MHC's easy style. She's up there with John Grisham for easy, fun reads - an author you know wont let you down.
Si bien es una novela sobre un asesinato, su trama es bastante entretenida y muy poco escabrosa, con bastante personajes y misterios por resolver.Aunque no es una gran trama policial ni será un clásico del género, sirve para pasar un buen rato y entretenerse leyendo porque la historia tiene un ritmo bastante ágil .Un poco predecible su final ya que las pistas que se van dejando sobre todo llegando al final hacen que sea fácil de adivinar quien es el posible asesino, por lo que el desenlace no es tan sorpresivo.
The last four or five books I’ve read by women authors seem to place a lot of emphasis on fashion, either as a theme or as a supporting characteristic of the plot.
This book is no exception.Neeve Kearny’s uncle is a prominent fashion designer.
Ethel Langston, a writer, is one of Neeve’s better patrons.
Neeve’s daddy is a retired NYC police commissioner whose wife was brutally murdered seventeen years earlier.
We’re certainly presented with a virtual pick-list of viable suspects.This 1989 best seller refreshingly contains no sex or foul language, and unfortunately, very little interest-generating excitement – until the final 10 percent of the narrative.
However, I can’t believe it is one of Clark’s best works.
The trouble is, the story is set in the fashion industry circa 1988, so the necessary descriptions of outfits provide a slightly comical air when reading in 2014.A writer is murdered, shortly before a damming article is due to be published.
Ethel happens to be the best client and a friend of Neeve Kearny, whose mother was murdered in oddly similar circumstances when Neeve was a child.Neeve's father is a retired police commissioner, but despite the best efforts of his detectives, her killer was never caught, although it was widely believed to be the work of a local mafia family.
Good story, but I'm getting tired of MHC's typically one- dimensional female leads.
Ethel, a bestselling author, has gone missing and Neeve, a fashion store owner, is quite concerned.
When Ethel is found dead, there are a number of suspects that wanted her dead.
I liked the way that a number of stories and characters were intertwined.
I found myself wondering how a certain character fit into the story and everyone ended up fitting in quite nicely into the story.
However, I can't stand MHC's female leads.
They are so wonderful in every way and can't do any wrong.
I got tired of Neeve pretty quickly.
I think I've read almost everything this author has written, and while she's definitely not my favorite author, I do like that she writes a clean and fun mystery with a little romance on the side.
I read a lot of her books in high school, and I was thinking yesterday after bookclub that I would definitely recomend this author to my daughters when they are teenagers looking for a good mystery/romance.
While some of her work gets to feel like more and more of the same, I do appreciate an author who is willing to keep it clean and consistantly puts out a light, fun read.
In Mary Higgins Clark's While My Pretty One Sleeps, Neeve Kearny might be the only one worried about Ethel Lambston's disappearance.
Ethel Lambston was a best-selling author and famous for her juicy exposés, and one of Neeve's best customers at her boutique, too.
But some people were glad she was no longer around--her ex-husband, her nephew and featured fashion moguls in her writings have every reason to see her gone.
But when Ethel was found dead with her throat cut, memories of her mother's long-unsolved murder resurfaced back again.
As an innocent witness to her murder, Neeve was caught into a webbed labyrinth of greed, ambition and deadly lies.
Judge me if you must, but I'm a longtime MHC fan, & I'm not embarrassed to admit it. Her books are easy to read & easy to become engrossed in, the perfect little criminal escape to keep me page-turning & wondering whodunnit. Truth be told, this book was not her best - it fell a little flat, plot-wise & in terms of the characters & the typical twists & turns I expect from her novels - but it still made for enjoyable reading during my stay in a cabin in the woods. Books like this are great for vacation!
I'm about 100 pages into this and I'm going to stop because nothing. is. happening. I'm tired of hearing about clothes, I'm tired of hearing how pretty and successful the passive, boring heroine is, and I'm tired of hearing about what a saint her dead mother is. No, I haven't guessed the culprit yet, but I haven't really tried, because honestly, I don't care.
Half this book was unnecessary backstory. First the murder is done, then follows 150 pages of 'who-cares' crap. This was a short story that was made into a novella and sold as a short novel. It sucked and the only reason it isn't a worse grade is because once it got going, it was interesting.
"Mientras... " es una novela sencilla que entretiene con un giro final esperado, pero bien construído por lo que no se hace aburrida.
This was a re-read or a read again book. I credit Mary Higgins Clark with a lot of my love for reading....Just as good all these years later...
A pesar de que Mary Higgins Clark es una de mis autor@s favoritos, esta novela me ha decepcionado.
While my Pretty one sleeps is a very intense thriller that catches the readers attention by slowly unraveling clues and getting closer to solving the murder of 61 year old Ethel Lambston.
The book is very interesting and does a good job of keeping you on edge and leaves you guessing who the murderer of Ethel is through the whole story.
It does a good job of introducing different characters and enough of a background to those characters to leave the reader wanting to learn more about them.
If you enjoy mystery and thrillers, give 'When my pretty one sleeps' a try.
With fine detail about fashion and behind the scenes, although that isn't my strong suit I was still able to love the passion the main character, Neeve, had as well as could understand the opposing opinion of her father, former Police Commissioner.
The opening scene is the gruesome murder of an eccentric character described later by all who knew her.
While she's still collecting alimony from her ex-husband, exposing illegal activity in the fashion industry and pushing all of her limits with regards to who she is, having only one dishonest family member left she names her nephew in her will.

It's highly unlikely that one would read a book close to 2 decades old and not find fault with the writing. Writing this review I choose to try and imagine reading this when it was first published. Probably being my first Higgins book and all the rage there was for her books I thought it best to rate it 3 stars. 21/2 to be precise. I managed to read till the end. It was an okay read. Wouldn't tell any reader not to pick it up.
I’m a huge Mary Higgins Clark book, but this wasn’t her best work. The premise just doesn’t work: a stylist thinks something is wrong based on a customer not showing up, she likes said customer though said customer is a pain in the neck and no one else likes her (including stylist’s father), and don’t get me started on how the cops have her inspect out clothes to help with the case. Also, all the clothes described in the book sound rather garish looking to me. Some stylist.
An interesting read; be careful about trusting long-time friends because in this book one of 'The Bronx' friends turned nasty and put a hit out of the ex-Police Commissioner's daughter...this was another one of Mary Higgins Clark's books that I couldn't put down on charge for too long..thanks to my E-reader I have enjoyed all her books.
Like all MHC's books, a very entertaining read with likeable characters and an interesting plot. I guessed the murdered pretty early on, but even so MHC managed to keep the book fast paced and with enough adrenaline toward the end, so even if you guess the murderer early on you will still find it a fun read. I would recommend this book to those who enjoy mysteries with a little touch of romance.
As always a chilling and exciting read, Definitely one of my favorite authors! Non stop Mystery and a shocking conclusion. I am always ready to read where she will take me next. Just when you think you have it figured out...you do not see it coming from that way!!
