https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2200013.The_Re_Creation_of_Brian_Kent
It was a twist of fate that led me to Brian Kent.
I had no idea that my River would bring me to Value Village, and this hidden gem.
Indeed, this morning I wasn't thinking of my River at all.There is a grace about Auntie Sue, a dignity, and a nobility.
A generosity of heart.
She just loves everyone like a force of nature, and you cannot help but love her in return.
And what can I say about Brian Kent?
It is a quaint, heart-warming, gripping, and satisfying story, about love, the power of love, and the price of it.Literally unputdownable.
4* Another great old-fashioned story, filled with inspiration. I like the unusual circumstances the author uses to give drama to his stories. In this novel, an embezzler tries to commit suicide on the river, but fails. Auntie Sue saves and "re-creates" the man by believing in his worth, and helping him believe it too.
New favHarold Bell Wright has become my favorite author.i? I have enjoyed his books, the ones that i have read are well written
A book about falling and redemption, this novel is worth the read. The ending is a bit odd, but the story is overall a positive statement about choice and change using the flow of a river as an analogy. This is another book written in the first part of the 20th century and is a part of my grandmother's treasure trove of books I am reading. It is a view of life that is much different from what we now experience, making it a view of from where we came.
A wonderful book on change and forgiveness.
Not one of my favorite Wright books, but good nonetheless.
I think anyone who has read this book should know this story.
it was a very hot day in Colorado.
Since it was very hot, I needed to find a store that had air conditioning.
I looked down the street and saw a sign that said, "Air con" I went inside and it was a sort of junk store.
As i got cooler i noticed there was a large row of books on a shelf.
i could not see any of the names of the books.
The name of the book was, "the Recreation of Brian Kent.
that is my name, Brian Kent.
