https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/168484.Feminism_is_for_Everybody
there are little hints of the man-pandering mega-christian hooks was to become here, but my bigger issue with this book is that 1) the book, despite its brevity, veers wildly away from its own stated thesis to act as a basic introductory primer for people reluctant to align themselves with the feminist movement, & 2) the book instead functions as a repository for hooks's own myriad opinions about what feminism really is & how contentious inter-movement arguments should have shaken out.
i knew what hooks was talking about because i have been self-educating in feminist theory for twenty years & have read dworkin's books.
She summarizes the inception and journey of the feminist movement through the decades - how it made its first proper appearance (second wave) in the U.S. in the 60s with the waves of bra-burning (she is not against bra-burning btw), angry women who had major grievances against a domestic arrangement where they held little to no power, how initially they believed 'feminism to be the theory and lesbianism the practice', how it has undergone gradual improvement to evolve into the polished academic discipline that it is today, how it was seen as an anathema in the past and how it continues to face a steadily growing list of challenges - apathy of mass media being a major one.
hooks writes about such goals within a broad and inclusive variety of social and ethical positions, reproductive rights, the exploitation of female bodies, the necessity of working together with other social justice movements (e.g. race and sexuality), mutual respect within marriage, equality of opportunity and education, working within religion, and so forth.
This movement can be all inclusive, and calls for decency and respect, and human rights.The only real criticism I can immediately think of is that this book does not address the international currents of feminism, and its compatibility with other social norms.
(Also: this is what I mean about the language not being the most accessible).3: The book makes some very excellent points about internalized misogyny manifesting in mother to child violence and abuse, which I honestly hadn't thought of before, and does mention that some men find themselves experiencing domestic violence, not as the abuser but as the abused, but seems to ignore homophobia and the myriad of violence it carries with it, for men and women, as an aspect of the sexism entrenched within our society.
Just in case this is any way unclear: coming out of the closet is (usually and ideally) a choice.
We do know that the world of female sexuality was forever changed by the coming of feminist sexual revolution."AND this - "Often I tell the story of being at a fancy dinner party where a woman is describing the way she disciplines her young son by pinching him hard, clamping down on his little flesh for as long as it takes to control him.
While it was crucial and revolutionary that feminist movement called attention to the fact that male domination in the home often creates an autocracy where men sexually abuse children, the fact is that masses of children are daily abused verbally and physically by women and men.
I love bell hooks! She is a little less hardcore and not so angry in this book, which makes it more accessable to the masses.... I guess she did that on purpose, given the title of the book "Feminism is for Everybody." Her earlier works are great if you want a taste of angry lesbian, black feminist. And who wouldn't want a taste of that?
5-star all the way.The hundred pages in between are full of humble bragging (the only time she doesn't use generalizations is to either slam a particular target or quote her own books), lamenting the ineffectiveness of the movement and Hooks' personal disillusionment with it, and endless bitter screeds against the "privileged-class, affluent highly-educated white women" who in her opinion co-opted and destroyed the movement that only Hooks is in the best position to set straight.
Feminism is for Everybody.
This book is especially good for people who denounce feminism, or don't think we need to shout about it any more.
It's the sort of book that should be on every school syllabus, to open discussions and make young people think about these issues.
To realise that talking about feminism goes beyond wanting equal rights in the workplace.
The only reason I haven't rated it five stars is because it's fifteen years old and while most of it is still applicable today, there are obviously limitations in dealing with today's societal issues.
I also really appreciated the more personal bits where bell hooks talked about her own life and how she came to be a feminist.However, I need to dock one star because I'm not really sure if bell hooks accomplished what she set out to do with Feminism Is for Everybody.
First off, hooks writes as if the reader already has a basic understanding of feminism—terms like "the feminization of poverty," for example, go unexplained.
I might still recommend this book to someone new to feminism, but I would probably suggest pairing it with something like Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie's We Should All Be Feminists for some more basic background.
But then that brings us to the issue of, is this really the right context?In the introduction, she presents this book ostensibly as a primer, as a means for those who know less about feminism, who are interested but full of misconceptions, can understand what it's all about and develop some understanding of theory without all the academic jargon.
Now, her particular broad term for this network of power hierarchies is meant to combat some of these issues, but it's still too jargon-y for most of your casual, less academic or politically conscious readers.A true primer on feminism would realistically start with the long history of the movement, nothing too detailed, but enough to give a basis for how things developed to the point of the 60s-70s women's liberation movement.
I read this for my Intro to Gender and Women's studies course and I absolutely loved it. It's the perfect place to start if you're interested in diving into feminist studies or even if you're already well versed in the subject. It really is for EVERYBODY (pun very much intended).
This had some interesting parts, and filled in some gaps of the feminist movement's history for me, but it gets a low rating for one reason: it states its goal at the beginning - to be a primer on feminism accessible to all - and then fails miserably at it.
I would never recommend this as a feminism primer to someone.
It doesn't talk much about feminism or the need for it but rather dissects the in-fighting within the feminist movement.
It's frustrating to agree with most of the tenets stated in a book and still think it's awful.
I love this book and think the message is incredibly important. However, not a massive fan of the lady that read hook’s writing as I thought she sounded too robotic. Too uninterested in the topic.Would highly recommend, just a different narrator, possibly even just go old school and pick up the paper edition
bell hooks desarrolla un discurso cercano, muy pegado a la oralidad, en el que de forma clara y dire
.
💜Es un libro pequeño pero de un gran contenido en sus 19 capítulos.📚A mí me a aportado otro punto de vista,el del feminismo visto desde una mujer estadounidense,que además luchó contra el racismo y chocó con un feminismo burgués blanco privilegiado.📚Interesante también es el análisis que hace de la manipulación de los medios de comunicación .📌Aporta muchos datos pero para mí cae en una reiteración un tanto pesada para la lectura.👏🏻El planteamiento de difusión que permite copias gratuitas merece un aplauso por ser conscientes de lo necesaria que es la difusión con este tema.
Feminist politics aims to end domination to free us to be who we are - to live lives where we love justice, where we can live in peace. Feminism is for everybody. 4.5, though I could change the rating later to a 4 because I'm not quite sure yet of the rating.I really liked this book. It was short and to the point, and though it was very basic (because is supposed to be more like a guide or manual), I really liked it.
"Elegir la política feminista es elegir el amor" Bell Hooks.
Class, work, race, bodies, relationships, sexuality, and others are all touched upon.
Instead, feminist organizers should make alliances with other intertwining causes like race, class, sexuality, since ultimately they all are related.She also points out that patriarchy, which feeds into capitalism and other forms of oppression, is a system, and not an individual action, and men acting as allies are needed for any real change to happen (though men shouldn't lead it.) If you want a good primer on why feminism is truly a philosophy of liberation, and isn't anti-male or anti-sex or just limited to educated white academics, I would recommend you check this out.
One of the things I love about bell hooks is that she writes radical books for widely different audiences. This book is for both for an audience that hasn't thought much about feminism and has misconceptions of what "feminism" is, and also for feminists who aren't coming from movements that include an analysis of race and class at their centers. I've used this book in first year writing classes to teach about feminist politics and it's been really successful. It's a great book for any sort of introduction to feminism. It's really accessible, short, and engaging. I <3 bell.

Feminists are not man-haters, they aren't all lesbian (not that I thought either of these, but now I have enough material to cite when others make such unwitting remarks), and I think most importantly to my cultural background, they support family and marriage.
bell hooks addresses issues of reproductive rights, body image, education, class struggle, race, violence, parenting, marriage, politics and spirituality - the last being the most important to me.
Coming from the background of two male-headed churches, I was most concerned with questions of the soul when I ventured into feminism.
It's all good in theory, but I'd like to see bell hooks and other feminist writers put this into practice.
It was insightful to read Bell Hooks' narrative on how the beliefs the different feminist factions have shaped some of the things we see today in the movement.
The example I am thinking about is feminists who want to get more rights and privileges for themselves and keep things status quo versus feminists who want a radical change.Bell Hooks makes a lot of arguments that I cheered for seeing in print and I wish I would see more of but I think this is an important one early on: "feminist politics is losing momentum because feminism movement has lost clear definitions.
Komplexné čítaníčko pre každého, kto už nechce len gúľať očami pri všetkých tých debatách o klasických stereotypoch spojených s feminizmom. "Ženy nenávidia mužov." "Ty si taká iná feministka, nie ako tie ostatné.""Samozrejme, že chcem rovnoprávne postavenie žien a mužov v spoločnosti, ale nie, nie som feministka.""Veď to sú len komplimenty."Ešte nás čaká veľa roboty v spoločnosti, kde vládne popri sexistickej, rasovej a iných, najmä triedna nadradenosť, ktorú máme my, z privilegovanej vrstvy, niekedy problém pochopiť, ale bell hooks napísala pekné vodítko porozumenia a feministického sebauvedomovania.
Yazar, kadınların da erkekler kadar kendi cinsiyet mekanizmalarının farkına varmasını istiyor. Sadece erkeklere yöneltmediği cümleleri herkesin dil, din, ırk, cinsiyet eşitliği üzerinden savunduğu tezlerle çok güzel açıklıyor. Önsözde; sürekli başa dönerek yeniden anlattığım feminist oluşumu dile getirecek bu kitabı yazmaya karar verdim, çünkü anlatmaktan dilimde tüy bitti minvalinde açıklamalar var. Alınıp hediye edilesi, ama herkese... Çünkü feminizm herkes içindir ! :)
Debemos crearlos si queremos reconstruir un movimiento feminista que sea de verdad para todo el mundo.”Es preocupante la forma que tienen algunos (¿la mayoria?
Por eso la autora recalca la importancia de la toma de conciencia crítica y de la necesidad de poder acercar feminismo a todo el mundo, sin importar raza o clase social y, por supuesto, también a los hombres.
No son el enemigo, el enemigo es el sexismo y las estructuras sociales, políticas y culturales que promueven y perpetúan el patriarcado.
A great introduction to feminist theory which I have highlighted the hell out of and filled with post its and sticky flags.
I guess i'll start with Bell definition of feminism which is:  “Feminism is a movement to end sexism, sexist exploitation, and oppression.”  I really like this definition because it doesn't only focus on women or men and neglect everybody in between.
And it kinda recognize that there are issues that men suffer from because of sexism as well and i think it's important thing to say.
She said in the book a lot of dies or assumption in the world that feminism is anti-men and that has been perpetuated a little nit by mainstream media.And she talked about how important is it to have men in board to get this movement to better place, a place where no one has to suffer from gender discrimination.
2.5, le aplaudo muchas cosas y le critico mucho otras. Apenas estoy formulando una crítica que publicaré más tarde por aquí.
(And not let mass media present well-educated attractive white straight women as the only members of feminism, or the spokespeople!)Overall, feminists need to work to create a mass-based movement that includes visions and models of what non-patriarchal relationships, norms and society look like.
Or, in her own words: "While visionary feminist thinkers have understood our need for a broad-based feminist movement, one that addresses the needs of girls and boys, women and men, across class, we have not produced a body of visionary feminist theory written in accessible language or shared through oral communication.
