https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/653348.The_Sunny_Side
Some of my earliest literary memories are of my mother reading all the original Winnie-the-Pooh books aloud to me, but I didn't discover A.A. Milne's writings for adults until just a few years ago.
'The Complete Dramatist,' a tongue-in-cheek article on the fine art of stagecraft, is one of the most hilarious pieces in the book.Now the object of [the] soliloquy is plain.
There's a section of stories based on Milne's experiences in the army in WWI, pieces on ordinary life at home involving letter-boxes, telephones and neighbors' pianos, and a series of stories on the adventures of some amusing characters vacationing on the French Riviera—all of which have that wonderful sophisticated between-the-wars flavor of the British middle and upper classes.
I wish he wrote more adult novels. This is such fun and I would love to get to know some of these characters Ina full length book.
Short stories, poems, and thoughts - quite fun :)You know it's good book when the Author in preface tells you to skip section #1 and start with section #2 and then read the beginning last - citing that the characters familiar to regular readers found in section #1 will then be as familiar to you as they already are to them -- or some such nonsense :) One of the poems: Golden Memories (you can find it on line) features Salmon Mayonnaise ---- Having reached the end of the book - This is easily my favorite story collection by A.A.Milne.
I'll post the stars later, for now I must go back and read the beginning (which I skipped.
Oh boy, this was clever.
Very clever.
And then more smirking as Milne blind-sighted me by having the publisher actually like the novel!
Then, and on a roll now, Milne follows this clever story by yet another solid satirical take on the conventions of theater.I love how Milne pokes fun at adulthood, but also makes us find the humor in some of the most mundane situations (e.g. running errands like grabbing ice, the titles we hold, the one-upping we do).
Clever ideas, cleverly written, and sidesplittingly done.
While Pooh stands alone, Milne's other writings are worth reading, especially this collection of short stories and silly poems, many from his days with Punch.
He lampoons literary pretensions in several self-conscious stories and plays, and his explanation of his "One Star" as a Second Lieutenant is hilarious.
Anytime "Celia" appeared, the story would be a great example of Milne's gift of mining the mundane for lightly humorous gold, but my favorite is probably the one describing the sound of a letter traveling down the chute to the letterbox.
Many of these selections will no doubt be read aloud in the Bowen home for years to come.
I mean, come on. A.A. Milne for Proper Grown-Ups? Not that Pooh isn't for grown-ups, of course. Being an incredibly awkward shy person, myself, I particularly enjoyed the story "A Warm Half-Hour," featuring ninepennyworth of ice and Algernon, the overwhiskered crustacean. There are also helpful tips on prestidigitation if you are ever stuck at a house-party over the "festive season" (copyright).Oh, and I defy you to find me a story beginning with the line "'Cauliflower!' shrieked Gaspard Volauvent" anywhere else.I feel certain that A.A. Milne and P.G. Wodehouse must have read each other.
More than our beloved author behind Winnie-the-Pooh, this is a reminder that Milne had a life before getting involved with his children's stuffed animals. He fought in The Great War, had and loved a wife, and lived the small, frugal city life. His stories have a wonderful appreciation for the small details that make life truly precious. I love Milne's sense of humor. From these essays, you get the impression that he and his wife loved each other and had a good time making each other laugh.
With all the bad things going on in our world, I’ve been looking for something fun to read. I hit the jackpot with The Sunny Side by A. A. Milne, author of Winnie the Pooh. His collection of short articles published in the British Satire Magazine Punch before, during and after the Great War, are still a hoot to read to read 90 years later…where wars are still going on. I have picked a The Way Down, a short piece to read at our annual hiking week talent show.
I love Mr. Montagu Mott from "A Poetry Recital" because he was a real poet yet it took him three years to write "Why Is the Fat Woman's Face So Red?" and nothing more."It is a hard thing to say of any man, but he appeared to me to be entirely lacking in intellect." (Milne 233)"If you mix in the right society, and only see the wrong people once, it is really quite easy to be an authority on birds--or, I imagine, on anything else." (Milne 249)
I'm reading this one as slowly and sparingly as I can! It's a bedside table book, and I read so much A. A. Milne growing up that it feels like hearing from a favorite old relative or family friend who I haven't heard from in years or something. It's dated and quaint but funny and comforting. Very nice so far. Even if I'm far from a Proper Grown-Up! And how funny is it that for a while I was reading "The Sunny Side" and "Twilight" simultaneously?
The sense of humour is perfect. It's subtle and British and self-deprecatory, and takes little things in normal life and makes them funny, and I think that that's very hard to do and yet A. A. Milne does it seemingly effortlessly.My favourite chapter was the one called The Complete Dramatist. It was superb.
So entertaining, this book is a collection of short stories that had originally been in the British humor magazine Punch.
Milne is humorous is a dry and intellectual way.
I found many of his stories to be fun and silly, although sometimes it was difficult to relate since they were written so long ago and in the context of the early 20th Century.
Another fun section was "At Home" which describes several crazy situations in which the author feels out of his element and tries to fix problems, but in a totally silly way.
Gloriously light-hearted articles, more mirthful and laugh-out-loud hilarious than any essays I have yet read before.
Milne paints pictures about his personal escapades that are as thoroughly silly and thoughtful as any great master of comic literature.
This is a delightful book for adult reading, making one appreciate the humor of the British in the "Punch" style.
Beginning with the introduction, I was immediately smiling and some of the stories are hilarious.
I read much of the book aloud on a road trip and occasionally went into gales of laughter that made reading difficult.
The sly wit and sometimes satirical perspective of the British life stye of the 1920's was just my cup of tea.
Americans whose only exposure to Milne are the Pooh books have been short changed.
Milne was a long time editor and contributor to Punch magazine.
What a delightful compilation! I should’ve known that Milne’s adult works would be as fun to read as “Winnie-the-Pooh.” He has a light wit that readily lends itself to stories and poems about issues both serious (war) and mundane (buying ice).
As you read this collection of short stories and musings, imagine Bertie Wooster’s (Hugh Laurie’s) voice in your head and your delight multiples! Began reading this just before seeing “Good-bye, Christopher Robin,” which illuminated my understanding of A.A. Milne and his times.
Some of the stories were better than others. I rather doubt that it is actually for grown ups, probably more for quite young adults.
First short story was funny and sweet, very similar voice to the Pooh stories, but about grown-ups on holiday. It was downhill from there, a couple bright spots but nothing much to recommend it.
It begins with Porkins sitting in his club saying that England wants a war to rid it of the flab that comes from pandering to the poor; continues through the stupidity of various countries, all terrified of losing their prestige in the eyes of Europe and sinking to the level of a fifth-rate power; and ends: 'And when a year later the hundred-thousandth English mother woke up to read that her boy had been shot, I am afraid that she shed foolish tears and thought the world had come to an end.
Collection of articles from the British humor magazine, Punch. Fun light reading.
A lovely book of adult short stories, some whimsical, some self depreciating, some funny. A. A. Milne was born in 1885. The book was first published in 1921. He initially wrote these stories/ poems for the Punch Magazine. The stories deal with WWI, young married life, club life, the arts, weekends away in the country, upper middle class/ lower upper class life really in a time long gone. The gentle and beautiful writing both reflects and pokes fun at the foibles of the times and class-system in England. My copy had wonderful hand cut pages and some cute illustrations.
Clearly, I am not a proper grown up.
This is a very dated book with incredibly proper English and very old style stories that I just could not get into.
I really wanted to tout myself as a well educated person who would love this style of poetry and storytelling, but alas, I am not.
I fear I am missing something and may regret not finishing this, but for the moment, life is too short and this book just isn't doing it for me.
On page 54, Milne explains my thoughts in his own words: "The whole affair will probably bore you to tears."
My first experience with A.A. Milne (despite bragging for years about how Winnie the Pooh was conceptualized on a trip to Winnipeg). I really love his sense of humour and his voice and look forward to his children's books as well. His voice is like he's a guest on Conan or like it would fit on Comedy Central despite being from 1920 (no graphic content but his presentation is like modern comics I love) with charm and wit as well.
A delight! Just don't try to read it all in one go. Fans of Adrian Plass, P.G. Wodehouse and Daniel Handler will like this guy. He's my new discovery in the world of adult fiction! It's exactly the sort of stuff I like to write when I'm in the mood. Very light, dry, and hilariously funny. The one on how to write a play is an absolute scream--way to take down literary pretensions! I am now on an active hunt for more...
The Sunny Side is the first book I've read from A.A. Milne and I can't wait to pick up more of his work! This little collection of short stories and poetry is adorable and a quick pleasurable read. It covers a variety of topics and situations, so you're never bored. Each night I read a chapter I was given a glimpse into a different world and what fun worlds they were! This book is humorous, heartfelt, confusing and exciting; and I recommend it to most everyone!
gentle of nature and easy reading. some, of course, are more humorous than others but on other days and other energy levels i would probably reverse the order of what i found funny and which ones i found tedious. i know for sure: in this fast-paced world, i love escaping with gentle literature ... i am able to recover my own gentle nature by doing so. yay for a.a. milne.
I actually take this up to 3 1/2 stars. These short stories are the only writing for adults by Milne that I have read. They have the smart humour and quiet charm of his Winnie-the Pooh stories and do offer a glimpse of World War I and thoughts from the years following. A good volume if you are interested in that period.
A. A. Milne is best known for his Winnie the Pooh series, which is a shame, as his adult works are wonderful as well. The Sunny Side is a collection of short stories originally published in the British Humor Magazine Punch. The stories are humorous and dry; fans of Daniel Handler would love Milne's work.
I loved this book of short stories, none of which are like his children's stories--these really are for grown-ups, but no less delightful! He has a very sharp wit and dry sense of humor. The stories evoke the era just before and during the first World War in England. Human nature never changes, and humor like Milne's is timeless.
This book was just lovely. The Sunny Side is a collection of writings that is light, funny, and elegant. It was just so much fun to read. Perhaps not anything thrilling, but I just loved it. I'd definitely recommend it to anyone seeking a little sunshine.
