https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8709526-the-indigo-spell
The ending was pure torture!Richelle, when your lying in bed at night, please think of us Adrian Ivashkov fans sitting at home re and re-reading chapter 24 looking a bit like this:￼2013 is TOO far away!
Action, mysteries, romance and plenty of magic awaits.Sydney is struggling to remember and act on her Alchemist teachings due to her ever growing relationship with the forbidden Moroi, Adrian Ivashkov.
Yes, we see kickbutt spells being performed and put into action by the one and only Sydney Sage, who in the book "Bloodlines" was too scared to even be near magic!
I'm sorry, I know I'm supposed to be writing a sane review which will give you guys enlightening insight into the book, but, *scoffs*, that's not how this is going to go down AT ALL.
So overall, Sydney did not dissapoint me at all in this book, and that's a rare when it comes to the main character for me.
Sydrian was as strong and funny as ever in TIS especially because they were basically stuck at the hip throughout the entire book, which, of course, I loved.
YESSSS. This was my favorite in the series so far! There was so much action, romance, and humor and SO many plot twists. Sydney is one of my favorite female protagonists and I am in love with her character development. Everything was just excellent and I cannot wait to see how the next book goes especially with that whirlwind of an ending!
Adrian and Sydney's relationship develops a lot and Sydney finally realises her feelings for him.
*sigh* There is a lot of HOT SYDRIAN stuff to look forward to and their scenes were definitely the highlight of the book.
Adrian was a total sweetheart as always and i really liked how he handled Sydney's denial and was quite patient with her.
lol <3 Sydney changes a lot in this book, She's pretty rebellious and daring and she's definitely changed for the better.
There was a lot going on and it kept the pace of the book pretty enjoyable.
THE MORNING AFTER."Maybe I shouldn't have stayed up all night reading that."*Remembers ending of book*I CAN'T EVEN OMGOMGYESYESYESWAIT NO ITS OVER :(
I've never been a huge fan of Sydney, but she really grew on me in this book.
Oh, who the hell am I kidding.
I read this book solely for Adrian, and he sure did not disappoint.08.05.12 - I just noticed the finished cover (released 07.12.12).
Left tattooed guy has got to be Marcus.06.26.12 - Yay!
We have a cover!
Um, who's the other dude?!?06.14.12 - The Golden Lily had me until the last page!I was like (view spoiler)[Yes!
Yes!
Yes!
Are you stupid or something?!?" (hide spoiler)]What am I going to do for another year?Can I PLEASE have this book now?
“I'm done with the pouting," he said. "Done with being moody—well, I mean, I'm always a little moody. That's what Adrian Ivashkov's all about. But I'm done with the excessive stuff. That didn't get me anywhere with Rose. It won't get me anywhere with you.""Nothing will get you anywhere with me," I exclaimed."I don't know about that." He put on an introspective look that was both unexpected and intruiging. "You're not as much of a lost cause as she was. I mean, with her, I had to overcome her d
In the entire book Sydney was acting like she didn't want Adrian, or she was lying to herself.
How Sydney cannot see that?3)Then, when they go on a mission(witches problem, I'll explain later), they end up at a college party and Adrian was drawing T-Shirts and that leaded to kiss passionately on the floor!And the next day...
4)At the hotel, when Adrian explain to her why he know she's in love with him!
Sydney and Adrian go to the the "hotel" Veronica(Jackie's sister) stays but she wasn't there.
They went back to the hotel, and Adrian being Adrian distracts Sydney with his love and she pulled away and her cross come off.
Eventually she goes in search of the mysterious Marcus Finch, an ex-alchemist who apparently betrayed them, but who may hold the key to secrets that Sydney is trying to uncover about the only way of life she's ever known.Things I thoroughly enjoyed: -- The overarching story about the Alchemists' magical tattoos.
I like her much more than I thought possible, but I just think Richelle Mead is better at writing kickass heroines.
I love each member of this “family” Sydney and AdrianThey are the perfect couple!
Adrian respects Sydney and treats her like a woman, not like a child, as Dimitri did with Rose (the only thing that didn’t like between them).
I want him with Jill!Angeline and TreyOk, Trey is not a member of the “family” but he is perfect for Angelina and managed to enter the family.It was obvious they would end up together.Angeline reminds me Rose sometimes, when she breaks rules and kicks asses.
Once again, Richelle Mead captivated me with yet another amazing Bloodlines sequel.This book was overloaded with so many happenings that are very significant and important.
I mean, who couldn't resist the romantic scenes between Sydney and Adrian?
*sigh And their chemistry!I guess what I truly love about this sequel, apart from the great romantic development, was the action scenes.
I was about to rate it 4 stars but Chapters 24 and 25 were a game changer and it's hard to resist it when you're fangirling over everything-- especially when it has something to do with SYDRIAN.Overall, a great sequel!
So what would you like to happen?Me. I want (if these don't already happen in TGL)~ Sydney and Adrian to date~ Sydney and Adrian to date~ Sydney and Adrian to date~ Sydney and Adrian to dateWell, now that I've TGL, I guess I still want these to happen, but maybe I should say this:~ Sydney and Adrian to kiss (again)Okay, so The Indigo Spell is the third book in the really awesome Bloodlines series by Richelle Mead.
He was - I believe - my first vampire crush and now looking back it's hard to believe that all those years passed by so quickly.
Still I was happy to read Adrian's story as I've always believed that he need his HEA.
She wasn't (isn't) a vampire and she needed some time to get used to this.
Yeah I know - there are still three more to come and I somehow believe that I'll love them even more.
Before I though that Bloodlines would be too much like VA but with time you could see that this is different story.BEFORE READING:This book has a title?
Okay similar to the last review I have to say I'm still lying naked covered in cigarettes, alcohol, cheery slush and now also fondue begging Adrian to have his way with me!!!
LOL Plus can I be an honorary member of AYE?!?!?!?!Happy Indigo Spell Release Day!!!!This will be more Adrian fangirling than anything resembling a review but I think that is what this book calls for!Let's start with my husband of course!
Sydney still has some more work but I finally feel like she is worthy of Adrian.
"I like fondue.""Oh...Adrian, I've got one more favor to ask you.
:D) After reading: 1) I want to marry Adrian Ivashkov.2) I want a Callistana.
Indigo Spell = SO, SOOO awesome.That college party scene!And THE FREAKING CALLISTANA (view spoiler)[ aka Sidney's and Adrian's baby dragon love child.
And EVERY SINGLE SYDNEY/ADRIAN scene was jhufdkshfdshdhf!!!"I have a hickey.
I let Adrian Ivashkov give me a hickey.""Metaphors.
But it did, and here's what I thought of the ending (only read this if you've finished the book, because, well, spoilers.)(view spoiler)[Who else thought she was going to go to Mexico with Marcus?
(hide spoiler)] Before I read this, I was all:  7 DAYS TILL THIS COMES OUT!!!
The TENSION(Believe me, it deserves those bold and caps!) between Adrian and Sydney wraps it all up to make this incredible book.Sydrian lovers like me, BRACE YOURSELVES!And no, I’m not talking about sitting straighter in your seat and holding onto the table.
I’m suggesting, strapping yourself with a heavy duty rope in a chair and making sure that chair is made up of marble connected to the floor!Heck, you need an anchor as an anklet to prevent you from cartwheeling your way through the book!
Or heck, just cartwheel like a pro all you want because the sexual tension between Sydrian needs a freaking outlet!
OH. SNAP. Sydney what have you gotten yourself into now... (full review to come on my blog!)
Angeline, not so much.The plot itself is a tough one because Mead’s actually juggling two separate storylines, one with Sydney delving more into the Alchemist conspiracy and the Alchemist’s connections to the Warriors of Light, the vampire slayers introduced in the last book, and the other with Sydney exploring more of her witchy magic and having to confront her mentor Ms. Terwilliger’s evil magic draining sister.
Conversation was irrelevant. Only pie mattered.  If you have not read the Vampire Academy series, I'd suggest you read part 1 of this review and stop there, or you will have VA spoiled for you (Bloodlines is a spin-off). If you have not read VA, then you are free to picture me scowling at you. Vampire Academy : Blood Sisters is going to be a movie soon, so get on it! Before you ask, don't even blaspheme my review by trying to compare this to Twilight. It's not the same. At all.Why the random p
For some reason, that scene reminded me of Star Wars and the "these are not the droids you're looking for" scene, which put a smile on my face.This is the part of the review for people who have read The Indigo Spell, or at least have started the Bloodlines series and won't mind my minor spoilers.
(hide spoiler)] You all can get angry at me if you like but it's bugging me how the word primal keeps getting used to describe him in this book.
(hide spoiler)] Don't get me wrong, I still love him.
PEOPLE. i do not have the fourth audiobook sEND HELP. i want to hear nothing else but the obnoxious voice of adrian ivashkov ahhH
I loved how you could definitely see a change in Sydney, especially when she kept analyzing what happened with Adrian.
(view spoiler)[Anyway I loved when Adrian showed up in the plane next to her, all calm and collected, saying that he'd keep on loving her no matter what.
She might have her doubts a little bit about using magic but in the end it seems like her doubts have gone away.
(hide spoiler)] I must say I'm starting to like Jill more.
Well except when she (view spoiler)[ruined Adrian and Sydney's hot moment!
Another swoon moment for Adrian when he (view spoiler)[carried Sydney out (hide spoiler)].
I didn’t think there was any hope whatsoever for me and Sydney, but her behavior and courage in this book endeared her to me after all.
But Sydney was never even remotely interested in Marcus, and it made me admire her even more.The Indigo Spell focused mostly on Sydney’s magic, her doubts about the Alchemists and her relationship with Adrian (yaay!).
Mead promised us the most powerful scene she’s ever written in The Fiery Heart and she compared it to Shadow Kiss, which of course left me terrified for Sydney and Adrian.
I hope there won't be a love triangle--Sydney is not the type!--and he better be some kind of tutor for our girl.I JUST WANT ADRIAN, OKAY?27/06/12 - "The Indigo Spell cover: this is still an early version" (Tweet by RMead)...
I mean, WHO IS HE.Let's focus:NOTEddieDimitriAdrian (he's on the right--F*CKYES)Marcus Flinch (he has "straight blond hair")MAY BEClarence (?)Sydney's father (has he dark hair?)Anyone else?????????
Even November (but the sooner, the better) would be perfect, thanks.Love,Isa.***OMG BLOODLINES3 HAS NOW A NAME.
I wrote this while I was high on Sydrian. So it'll probably contain lots of incoherent gushing and fangirling. Just warning. Initial Reaction after completing the book ASDFGHJKLWERTYUIOPMNBVCXZASDFGHJKLOIUYTREWQMNBVCXZOkay. I needed to get that out of my system.But I'm so happy. So freaking happy!I don't even know what to say. I am zapped. Speechless. Yep, it was that amazing. What I loved Callistana. Hair gel. COLLEGE PARTY. Dreams. Distractions. Math tutors. Airplane rides. Hopper. Ivashkinato
So getting down to the book.I just can't stop smiling.
And finally, finally when Sydney accepts her feelings for Adrian and they are together, I'm like, high time.
It's not really a flaw in the book but it has been eating me since the end, Sydney doesn't say 'I love you' back to Adrian.Not even once.
I mean, Adrian has said that like, every opportunity he gets.
When Adrian points out the risk of getting caught to Sydney, she's like, it'll be alright as she'll have Adrian for company in the dreams.
Adrian is happy with someone else.
This is making me a hopeless romantic but I SHIP SYDRIAN SO HARD I HAVE HEART EYES.
(Forgive me for fangirling, Adrian Ivashkov is just irresistible.) The Bloodlines series just keeps getting better.
I love how Richelle Mead adds more twist on Sydney's adventure as it focuses on two conflicts: a.) Finding Ms. Terwilliger's older sister, Veronica ,who absorbs someone's magic to make her stronger and enhance her beauty, leaving the victims in coma and frail.
Adrian's vampire magic protects her more since Veronica couldn't detect it.
I love Sydney Sage.
As always, Adrian Ivashkov is the most romantic vampire ever.
SYDRIAN JUST ASGLFSA DO I NEED TO SAY MORE
Basically, the wait for The Indigo Spell was complete and utter torture, and it was such a relief when the release date finally arrived.If I haven't made it clear enough, I'm obsessed with the Bloodlines series and the relationship between Sydney and Adrian.
This change really worked for him, and I'm glad that through it all he never lost his hilarious and loveable personality.Sydney and Adrian's relationship is so fun to read about.
Seems like the short length will continue into book four, which I can't help but to feel a bit disappointed about considering we will also be getting Adrian's POV.That being said, The Indigo Spell has the most action and romance out of all the Bloodlines books released so far!
The fucking COVER is released and it’s SHIT!
15/08/12 Just noticing the Cover of The Indigo Spell.Then…My reaction when I first saw the release date of The Indigo Spell.^^^^  I’m sorry Sydrian.
At least I know my Adrian is on his waaay!Excuse me one moment, I just need to….Then my best friend sees me and she’s all like…Then I shout to her that The Indigo Spell’s cover is released and Adrian’s gonna be here soon (just a little white lie) and were like….and then I’m back to……….because the release date still hasn’t fucking changed and MEADS gonna make me fucking wait.
I think the culprit for this is not Adrian specially (though, come on, he is charmingly hot, and even BETTER in this book since he got over the whole Rose debacle and is all manly and protective and loving!), but Sydney.Sydney is so different from Rose, but that isn't a bad thing.
I let out a small gasp, and he kissed all around the neckline, just enough to tease."Sure Adrian always goes after the unavailable girl, and his "love from afar" thing is annoying, but it makes for a good read.
Another spectacularly fun book in the Bloodlines series! Loved it. Just posted a booktalk on le youtube channel http://youtu.be/eWFj_dZATFM
I hate the covers for this series, and this one is by far the worst. The color schemes are nice, but none of the characters look even remotely like how I envision them. Therefore, I came up with my own cast. Now at least the covers won't hinder my enjoyment of the series. Sydney:[image error]Adrian:[image error]Jill:[image error]Eddie:[image error]Angeline:[image error]
