https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38412.Fermat_s_Enigma
And, in his will he established a fund of 100,000 marks to be given to the mathematician who first completes the proof of the theorem!Much of the book describes how Andrew Wiles developed a growing interest in the theorem.
But that is exactly what Andrew Wiles worked on for so many years.I had previously read that during Andrew Wiles' famous lecture, he just casually let the unsuspecting audience know, "and that is a proof of Fermat's Last Theorem." Well, this book tells a somewhat different story.
While I’ve not looked into any of the titles he recommended, I assume many of those might prove more to your liking if you prefer a “math book” on the subject.)In any case, while Singh did not pursue the actual mathematics in any real sense, he did positively excel at telling the story of an utterly fascinating struggle, one which spanned hundreds of years and ensnared countless brilliant, talented minds.
A childhood dream evolved into an adult obsession, and when he eventually figured out a possible strategy for proving Fermat’s riddle, he worked in secrecy for seven years before revealing his 200-page proof.Every mathematician that I have ever met takes on major problems purely for the intellectual battle, and the rich prizes are just a distraction, usually accepted, but sometimes rejected.Posed in 1904 by Henri Poincaré, the conjectures suggests that “every simply connected, closed 3-manifold is homeomorphic to the 3-sphere”, and Grigori Perelman from Saint Petersburg successfully proved that it is indeed true.
Being a scientist of long standing and loving all aspects of science and maths, Fermat's Last Theorem in itself was a wonderful mystery, what I would give to see Fermat's note book with a note in the margin about cubic numbers as opposed to squares.
A very trite remark, too lengthy to write in the margin so it is elsewhere, and no one has ever found it or managed to prove his statement, until - - - this book is a brilliant read, you would think it would be as dry as dust, but no!
“সমকোণী তরিভুজের অতিভুজের ওপর অঙকিত বরগকষেতরের কষেতরফল অপর দুই বাহুর ওপর অঙকিত বরগকষেতরদবয়ের কষেতরফলের সমষটির সমান”-বাংলা মধযম শিকষা বযবসথার ছাতর-ছাতরীরা বিজঞান, বযবসা, মানবিক ইতযাদি ‘শরেণীগত পারথকয’ভেদে সকলেই নবম শরেণীতে ‘পীথাগোরাসের উপপাদয’ নামে পরিচিত উপপাদয-২৩ পড়ে এসেছেন।চিতরের সমকোণী তরিভুজের (অরথাৎ যে তরিভুজের একটি বাহু অপর বাহুর সাথে ৯০ ডিগরী কোণে অবসথিত) অতিভুজ c, লমব a এবং ভূমি b। পীথাগোরাসের উপপাদয অনুসারে a^2 + b^2 = c^2। a, b এবং c এর কিছু মান বসিয়ে সমীকরণের দু পাশ সমান করে ফেলা যায়,
তাঁর জন্মের বহু আগে থেকেই একাধিক সভ্যতা এই উপপাদ্যটির ব্যবহার করে আসছিলো)। পীথাগোরাসের উপপাদ্য বিভিন্ন প্রকৌশল বিদ্যার অপরিহার্য অঙ্গ হিসেবে এমনিই গরীয়ান, কিন্তু আরো একটি বিষয় উপপাদ্যের সমীকরণটিকে অনন্য করে তুলেছে। ৩৭৭ বছর আগে, ১৬৩৭ সালে ফরাসী গণিতবিদ পিয়ে দ্যা ফার্মা একটি উপপাদ্য দাঁড় করালেন। “নিম্নোক্ত সমীকরণটির কোন সমাধান পূর্ন সংখ্যায় কখনোই পাওয়া যাবেনাঃ a^n + b^n = c^n যেখানে a, b, c ও n পূর্ণ সংখ্যা ও n এর মান ২ এর চেয়ে বড় যে কোন সংখ্যা"অর্থাৎ, a^3 + b^3 কখনোই c^3 এর সমান হবেনা, a^4 + b^4 কখনোই c^4 এর সমান হবেনা……a^100 + b^100 কখনই c^100 এর সমান হবেনা……a^9999999999999…….(অসীম) + b^9999999999999…….(অসীম) কখনোই c^9999999999999…….(অসীম) এর সমান হবেনা; n এর মান ২ এর ওপর যে কোন পূর্ণ সংখ্যার জন্যই সমীকরণটির কোন সমাধান নেই। “সংখ্যার সংখ্যা কত” এমনটা কেউ বলতে পারবেনা কখনোই। সবচেয়ে বড় শেষ সংখ্যাটির সাথে এক যোগ করে দিলেই আরেকটি নতুন সংখ্যা তৈরী হয়ে যায়। অসীম সংখ্যক সংখ্যার একটি দিয়েও a^n + b^n = c^n সমীকরণটির সমাধান করা যাবেনা?
I guess the author does a reasonable job. But when I reached the end, I still didn't feel I understood at all how the proof worked. Probably that's just because it's so bloody hard. I got a lot more though out of Prime Obsession, Derbyshire's book on the Riemann Hypothesis, where the author opens up the box and shows you some of the actual math...
Simon converts what could have been a dry chronicle of proofs into an ode full of excitement, inspiration and intrigue worthy of a gothic love affair. Full review to follow.
So, here in Singh's work I get a solid lay understanding not only of the proof to Fermat's Last Theorem, but of much of mathematics (and the lives of mathematicians) since the seventeenth century.I've been thinking also about what attracts me to books on mathematical topics -- the works by Martin Gardner, William Poundstone, and the various other authors in the company of whose thoughts I've had pleasure to spend a week or more.
That way, even if you miss, you at least had a chance to take aim at the only person able to shoot back.Pierre Fermat turns out to have been quite the prankster, often tweaking professional mathematicians and academics by mailing them problems they knew full well he had already solved.
This is the kind of book that we non mathematical minds can easily digest and love.
I doubt if Fermat had actually solved this theorem correctly, but this is impossible to prove.
Fermat's theorem however was not impossible to prove!
This book has a lot of wonderful elements, and really exemplifies a love of mathematics.
Although if you want to actually understand the theorem this book may not be for you!
I personally loved this approach, but it may not be for everyone, especially if you are actually looking to understand the theorem (a massive undertaking that is really not in my repertoire to comment on).
Un teorema è per sempreUn tale Fermat, che nel diciassettesimo secolo si dilettava di matematica ed era un po' buontempone, enunciò un teorema all'apparenza banale e lasciò scritto sul margine di una pagina di un libro:“Dispongo di una meravigliosa dimostrazione di questo teorema, che non può essere contenuta nel margine stretto della pagina”Il teorema era banale, come pure l'affermazione.
This book is as interesting as a detective story while being about quite advanced mathematics - as such it is quite a book showing the remarkable skill of its writer to explain complex ideas in ways that are always readable and enjoyable.A mathematician finds a simple proof to what seems like a deceptively simple problem of mathematics - that pythagoras's theorem only works if the terms are squared, and not if they are any other power up to infinity.
The proof of Pythagoras's theorem given in this book is so simple that the beauty of mathematical proof is made plain to everyone.
From my reading journal:May 31, 2009. Yesterday I finished reading Fermat's Last Theorem. I plan to write a glowing book review but this space is too limited to contain it.
godine dokazao da Freyeva kriva nije modularna, i tada je Wilesu ostalo "samo" da dokaže Taniyama-Shimuru.Ovo sve lepo zvuči, ali meni i dalje nije jasno kako je Frey od 1) došao do 2), a "objašnjenje" koje Singh nudi glasi:"Fraj je tada nastavio tako što je 'preuredio' jednačinu.
Ne volim kad neko misli da nešto neću moći da shvatim, pa ni ne pokušava da mi objasni.__________________________________________To na stranu, ovo je zaista zanimljiva knjiga, koja nudi mnoštvo informacija, i Singh lepo gradi priču o postepenom napretku u rešavanju problema koji nam je ostavio Pierre de Fermat.
Lectura en 2012Este año tomé nuevamente el libro del Enigma de Fermat, símplemente porque me gustó bastanteLas matemáticas fueron una de esas cosas con las que siempre tuve un romance eterno.
Es la vida de personas que significaron algo para que este teorema existiera y para que finalmente fuera solucionado.El gran enigma matemático ha muerto.(en serio, leanlo)................................................Lectura en 2006Finalmente llegamos a lo que fué mi último libro del año (2006 para los despistados).
Entre sus compañeras hubo una que le presto este libro y en una ocasión el libro viajó con ella… sin embargo hay que añadir que mi hermana es algo despistada así que en esa ocasión el libro quedó en el autobús.
What held me back is what will probably put a lot of other potential readers off trying it - the boring old "I'm no good at maths" argument.
Given that this book is about a problem that flummoxed the best mathematical minds in the world for over 350 years you'd be forgiven for putting this back on the shelf and choosing something a little simpler.
The search for the answer to Fermat's riddle reads like a detective story and not a matehematical treatise and it includes a truly absorbing potted history of the development of maths over the years and, from Pythagoras to Fermat to Godel to Wiles, each part has a fascinating human side to it.
Αρχικά να πούμε ότι δεν είναι λογοτεχνία. Μου το είχαν προτείνει μαζί με κάποια βιβλία επιστημονικής φαντασίας και συνεπώς περίμενα κάτι αντίστοιχο. Αυτός ήταν και ο λόγος που το παράτησα στην πρώτη απόπειρα.Όμως, είναι μια εξαιρετική και απλοϊκή ιστορία των μαθηματικών σε σχεδόν λογοτεχνική απόδοση. Σίγουρα δεν μαθαίνει κάποιος μαθηματικά με αυτό το βιβλίο, αλλά μπορεί να έρθει σε επαφή με τις πλέον σύγχρονες μορφές τους χωρίς ιδιαίτερες γνώσεις.Σε τελική ανάλυση η ιστορία με συνεπήρε και το βιβλίο σίγουρα άξιζε την δεύτερη ευκαιρία που του έδωσα.
Es un libro hermoso, como hermosas son las matemáticas y como hermoso es el problema que heredó Fermat a sus colegas por más de 300 años y como hermosa es la historia de traiciones, desafíos y sueños que están ligados a este acertijo matemático.Este es un libro que mezcla la investigación científica, el periodismo y la literatura.
La belleza del problema es que Fermat dijo tener una demostración, pero que no la podía escribir en el margen de un libro, ya que ese espacio era muy pequeño.
A fantastically entertaining and educational book about the quest to solve the oldest math problem: Fermat's Last Theorem.
All the math greats who have attempted to solve it but come up a little short, or a lot short.But it's much more than that, since the final proof of Fermat's Theorem involves so many other math concepts.
It's interesting to read about all the different dead ends and other productive findings (that had tangentially made it a little more possible to solve Fermat, but whose main contribution was in some other area).
This book is a biography of the epic quest to solve the eluding Fermat's last theorem.
It chronicles the life and works of not just Fermat, but most of the mathematicians having even a tiny bit to do with the conjecture/theorem.
Curious and strange revelations into the lives of many of the princes and princesses of mathematics are presented.
It presents the case of lives, pursuits and the times that they lived in.
The problems that they face (mathematical and others), how these affect the progress/decline of the field.
Simon Singh writes brilliantly mixing accounts of math behind the problem along with the lives of these mathematicians.
Why do variables love mathematics? (My head says rationally: Veronica, Goodreads is not a place for the corny wisecracks that you come up with during the day. My heart says differently.)

A very nice read detailing the incredible journey behind the solution of this theorem. My only gripe with this book is that the author tries to push a narrative a little too hard and tends to over-dramatize certain details. Nevertheless, a thoroughly enjoyable mathematical journey. Simon Singh has done well to make the book accessible and not overtly mathematical and confusing to read.
(From "Towel Season":)When they were dating, he'd begun to try to explain his work to her in metaphors, and she'd continued the game through his career, asking him for comparisons that she'd then inhabit, embellish.
My hope is to find a way through this next place.""Mountains?""Right.
"Halfway up that mountain, there's a woman with a cappuccino cart and a chicken-salad sandwich--me."Then a smile would break across his face, too, and he would see her, kiss her back, and say it: "Right.
You."A book has yet to fulfill my odd wish to peek over the shoulder of a mathematician working on a problem like Fermat's Theorem or the Taniyama-Shimura conjecture.
Perfect numbers.
Complete numbers.
Irrational numbers.
Friendly numbers.
Imaginary numbers.
Negative numbers.Method of infinite descent.
Who knew math could describe the ways of the heart so well?
I think that what I liked the most about this book is that I was actually able to understand a good sixty percent of it.
With the other forty percent, I proceeded on faith.
Come to think of it, those percentages hold true for the rest of my life.
There are times when your best bet is to find a good math book.
Two plus two is four.
Here and in the farthest reaches of the universe.
Một cha toán học gia tỏ ra nguy hiểm giật tít. Nhiều cha tò mò tốn bao nhiêu công sức nhưng đành bó tay. Và cuối cùng cũng có một ông kiếm ra lời giải!! :D
well, the main thing i took from this book is probably that maths is a field for privileged white men.
although i would recommend the 1st half of the book to pretty much anyone, it does sort of get a bit jargon-y and vague by the end.
if you're interested at all in the history of mathematics, i would definitely recommend.
it doesn't really tell you how to solve fermat's last theorem (you'd have to read a 200 page paper to find out sorry), but it gives you a pretty good overview of how mathematicians collectively got there.
Most interesting non-fiction book I have ever read.Simon Singh's style of weaving a scientific concept into a beautiful story leaves no occasion for the fictional characters and plots.
And then, starts the roller coaster ride of the great minds who faced the thunderstorms and sunshine in Mathematical history.
Before I could even realize, I was already there with the great mathematicians, feeling the euphoria of slaughtering a puzzle, the frustration of long struggles, standing against the whole world for the love of Mathematics.
Singh takes us through the history of Mathematics related to FLT chronologically depicting many interesting stories.
"My butter, garcon, is writ large in!"a diner was heard to be chargin'."I HAD to write there,"exclaimed waiter Pierre,"I couldn't find room in the margarine."Ever since I recently stumbled upon the documentary called 'The Proof' I've become extremely interested (almost obsessed) in Wiles's proof of Fermat's last Theorem and have been searching for a good book that would provide me with a real, mathematical explanation of it (mainly the connection between modular forms and elliptic curves), because the documentary was rather simple and basic.
This book finds a way to narrate the chain of events from the time of Pythagoras to the final proof of Fermat's last theorem by Andrew Wiles, entwining with it the key mathematical concepts presented in an accessible form and stories of the mathematicians who made those contributions. It conveys perfectly to a layman the sense of accomplishment that the mathematical community associates with cracking the proof for this theorem. In that sense, it has the effect of a self-help book even without trying to be one.
I just read the summary on the back page and felt like picking up the book and once I started reading it, there was no stopping it, though I did skipped over complex mathematical equations part.Fermat’s last theorem states that no set of positive three integers exist such thatan + bn = cnis satisfied for any integer value of n greater than two.
Even though the proof has been found it is based on very complex mathematical models that were not in existence during Fermat’s time.
