https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19034960-jeeves-and-the-yule-tide-spirit
What a charming tale. Anyone who loves P.G Wodehouse will love this story.
What I know about the stories of P.G. Wodehouse, specifically, the Jeeves stories, I can count on one hand - they are about an Edwardian rich toff called Bertie Wooster and his valet, Jeeves, and that there was a series of TV adaptions starring Hugh Laurie and Stephen Fry, in the 1990s.So when I spotted this free story on Amazon, I decided to take a punt.Bertie is invited to stay with the family of his heart's desire, Bobbie Wickham.
Despite Jeeves' remarks about her not being the right woman for Bertie, Wooster ignores him completely and goes about exacting his revenge on Tuppy, his friend who had played a trick with a hot water bottle on poor Bertie.
Bertie's plan of revenge was suggested by Bobbie.Except it goes slightly awry.
*2.5 starsA brilliant little story introducing me to P.G Woodhouse and his famous series of Jeeves and Wooster. I really enjoyed the character of Jeeves, and I’m quite excited to expand further into the realm of Woodhouse and his stories. I really think he’ll be an author I enjoy if his writing is as fun and entertaining as this one!
Starting to understand the style of P G Wodehouse and the ‘Jeeves and Wooster’ stories. Rather an easy and jolly read this one. All I can say is “Well, isn’t Jeeves a cunning fellow!!”
I love P.G. Wodehouse and the Jeeves & Wooster TV series, but have mixed feelings about this short story.
I knew the hot water bottle story already, thanks to the TV series, and it might as well have been set in the height of summer--there's little Yule-tide Spirit.
But it is Wodehouse, so you get plenty of giggles and smirks.
One favorite Bertie quote:"As Shakespeare says, if you're going to do a thing you might just as well pop right at it and get it over.
The man would be disappointed, of course, and possibly even chagrined: but, dash it all, a splash of disappointment here and there does a fellow good.
Short free-to-download (form Amazon) Jeeves story, in which Bertie Wooster is off to Skelding Hall to stay with Lady Wickham and her daughter Bobbie, the latest of Wooster's desires in a change of plans from their intended visit to Monte CarloAlso staying are Roderick and Tuppy Glossop, leading Bertie to (attempt to) get his own back on Tuppy for a previous slight, with his (or Bobbie's) plan involving a hot water bottle and a darning needle ...Needless to say, things go wrong once again, and Jeeves ends up both saving the day and the trip to Monte Carlo ...
"Awfully sorry about all this." I said in a hearty sort of voice. "The fact is, I thought you were Tuppy.""Kindly refrain from inflicting your idiotic slang on me. What do you mean by the adjective 'tuppy'?""It isn't so much an adjective, don't you know. More of a noun. I should think, if you examine It squarely. What I mean to say is. I thought you were your nephew.""You thought I was my nephew? Why should I be my nephew?"
I just love Wodehouse but unlike most people I don’t consider that stories involving Jeeves & Wooster are his best. I have to say I enjoy the Blandings series or his stand-alone books a lot more. Still, I try to read every single Wodehouse story I can get my hands on so I couldn’t let this one pass!This is a short, amusing story with things going terribly wrong for Bertie and Jeeves saving the day, as usual. Not terribly original but enjoyable nonetheless.
Having just read What Ho! Gods of the Abyss by Alan Moore, being a pastiche of the style of Wodehouse in a mashup with that of H.P. Lovecraft I felt the need to revisit Bertie and pals in their original form and came across this seasonal offering on Amazon.I've not read Wodehouse for around 25 years and I'm glad to say that it is still good for a chuckle.
A lovely, witty short story, perfect for Christmas and all the better for being free. Jeeves and Wooster are up to their same old tricks, pulling pranks on other members of the household before Christmas, exacerbated by the fact that they were meant to be going to Monte Carlo and that Wooster is in love with a girl in the house he is staying. Needless to say Jeeves gets his trip to Monte Carlo.
A Christmas story that had not much to do with Christmas at all!Having said that, this was quick and easy and fun to read. Not something I would usually pick up and I'm not sure that I would go out of my way to read more.
An enjoyable short story, though I personally rate it at 3.5 stars. For the first time in my life, I think I prefer the TV series to the book as Jeeves' activities are clearer and Wooster seems easier to like in the 3rd person.
Festive cheer from Bertie.This is a short story set, unsurprisingly around the festive period. The 23rd, 24th & 25th to be precise. It's classic Jeeves and Wooster and just right to read whilst digesting the Christmas dinner.
Love the Jeeves & Wooster TV series and this was my first foray into the works it was based on. It was as funny and witty as I hoped it might be. Jeeves always has everything under control hasn't he, eh!
Short jolly Christmas jape. Rollicking good fun, what!
Brilliant as ever. Wodehouse is unparalleled as a writer of comic fiction. Just the tonic old boy on a grey January morn.
Classic Wodehouse!
This is the first time I have read Wodehouse and I will definitely be reading more. Very amusing!
3 stars not because it was bad but just so short!
A wonderful delight ! :)
I love "A Christmas Carol" as much as the next person, but I think I'm more likely to reread this story every year in December. I kept hearing Hugh Laurie's voice in my head as I read.
This is the first Jeeves story I've read. I enjoyed it and will probably read more.
Free Download - Having never read any P.G.Wodehouse I enjoyed this short snippet, and will look out for more by this author now :-)
A most enjoyable Christmas short story! Very typical english humour.
An entertaining short story that I read twice as it was very funny. An appropriate Christmas day read.
A short but mildly amusing story.
