https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/774088.Difficult_Conversations
Anytime we feel vulnerable or our self-esteem is implicated, when issues at stake are important and the outcome uncertain, when we care deeply about what is being discussed or about the people with whom we are discussing it, there is potential for us to experience the conversation as difficult.Per the authors, there are three dimensions to a difficult conversation: practical substance ("the What Happened conversation"), emotional (or inter-personal) subtext, and identity (or inner-personal) subtext.
I read this on a recommendation from a friend who gave it to me on a list of business books to read. But it was so much more. It gives you a great framework for thinking through why people have communication issues - whether in personal or professional relationships.The best piece of advice that stuck with me is to always explain where you are coming from in a discussion. "I did it this way because...". Sometimes we think its obvious and it isn't, and it always helps the conversation when people understand your reasoning.
It should be required reading for anyone who hasn’t done mediation or communication training (I have, but still learned a lot).Difficult Conversations separates readers from our own narrative and reveals the reasons underlying others’ hot-headed — and often baffling — reactions.Buyer beware, though: this isn’t the only book you’ll ever need to go happily on your way to communication mastery.
ADHD adults and other communication-challenged people embarking on this journey will need a partner willing to endure a lot of practice, reflection, and setbacks.That said, Difficult Conversations still provided an indispensable Step One on the path to better relationships.(full review at http://adhdhomestead.net/book-review-...)
It was introduced to me in a negotiations class and I learned the most from this book over any other book I was made to read in my graduate studies.
Although everyone would benefit from this book - I especially recommend this book to women for a particular reason.
One of the reasons women are consistently paid less than men is because we avoid or aren't as strong at the difficult conversations that matter most - negotiating our raises, advocating for ourselves and taking credit for our accomplishments.
So by that logic, reading this book will make you more money in your career :)
I cannot recommend this book enough. Clear, precise, to the point, it does exactly what it sets out to do.Although the book comes too late to save many a conversation I wish I'd never had, but hopefully I'll be able to manage my conversations more skillfully in the future.
I do everything the authors say will happen if you avoid them: complain to my family, friends, co-workers.
And in the past, when I have tried to deal directly with someone, I have either blown up in self-righteous anger or retreated in self-blame.So this book offers a third path.
Lots of concrete suggestions as to how to make these conversations work: avoiding blame (and replacing it with "contributions" that come from both sides); starting from a "third story" (what a mediator might see as having happened); listening with genuine curiosity, and knowing how one's own identity gets triggered in these kinds of conversations.Lots of interesting scenarios.
Although some of the tips may sound a little corny, I think this is a great book for pretty much everyone to read. I definitely noticed a lot of the negative traps I fall into and I want to try some of the new tips suggested in the book.
It's a brilliant book that tells how humans sometimes fail to create impact in conversation because they fail to see the point of view of other people.
The examples in this book are extremely well-done -- in fact, I suspect if they were extracted to stand on their own without any of the accompanying explanation, the book's thesis still would have come through quite clearly.My takeaways:Break down your thoughts (and the conversation) into three parts: what happened, feelings, and identity.
1. What does each involved part think occurred?
3. What does the issue(s) at hand say about who you are as a person?Approach conversations with the intent to listen and learn, not to deliver a message.
Don't issue judgements or speculate on other people's motivations and intentions.
Try to fully probe and untangle your own thoughts and feelings on a situation before entering a conversation with the other involved party.
A good guide to 'difficult conversations' with boss/spouse/people, i.e., clashing stories, themes that endanger your self-image, and emotions, it contains some valuable advice on how to incorporate everyone's and your own feelings in a mature way during a conversation.But: For the love of all that is holy, do not follow the advice contained in this book with children.
The authors circumvent the issue by pretending that children don't exist.
A note like 'btw, this stuff doesn't work with children' would have helped.
Read at the insistence of my wife. I think she was trying to tell me something. Not sure what it was. Back to nerd fiction!
My boss, being a corporate minded, new-ager, pop-psychology fan, was told by other managers that if she got the workers to read this book, then problems would practically dissolve.
The set up is that there is a worker who has been asked to stay and work the weekend after being granted time off:Let's come back to Henry and Rosario.
Perhaps she will even apologize, or ask to talk about how to avoid such situations in the future.If Henry can't live with the possibility of losing his job, then his best choice is probably to work the weekend.
It’s amazing how much we speak and how bad we are at conversations.
A conversation is affected by the image people have about themselves.
People react when a conversation affects their identity.
So the way one handles conversations is determined by how much one knows himself.One of the best advices is to express your feelings.
All you can do in a difficult conversation is showing understanding of the situation.The book offers quite sensible advice on how to prepare, manage or avoid a difficult conversation (yes, because some conversations are not worth having).

ظاهرا این کتاب محصولی از پروژه مذاکره هاروارد است و به بیان دلایل دشوار بودن برخی گفتگوها برای ما می پردازد.نکات بسیار کاربردی و جالب توجه، که غفلت نسبت به آنها موانع زیادی در روند مذاکره و گفتگوی سالم و آموزنده ایجاد میکند, در این کتاب بیان و بررسی میشوند.
Often the conversation does not specifically address the participants' feelings, but these emotions inform it, and determine its intensity and course.3.
Don't assume that because the other person now understands that you meant well, the impact of your act no longer matters.Difficult conversations always involve feelings.
Dealing with emotions is often what matters most at the end of difficult conversations.Give up trying to control other peoples' responses, but prepare yourself for their reactions within a range of possibilities.
If you fail to express yourself, you will not fulfill your objectives for the conversation."Delivering a difficult message is like throwing a hand grenade.
Книга рассказывает о том, что в трудных беседах мы часто считаем что знаем историю и намерения другой стороны, но это не так.
Отсюда все проблемы.Когда человеку трудно услышать собеседника, это часто связано не с неумением слушать, а, как ни парадоксально это звучит, с неумением выражать собственные мысли и чувства.Начните трудный разговор с «третьей истории»: признайте обе позиции как законную часть дискуссии.
Вместо требования предложите обсудить вопрос, который вас интересует, и вместе придти к решению.Сначала признание чувств, потом решение проблем.
При том, что вы можете не соглашаться с содержанием сказанного, вы вполне можете признать важность чувств собеседника.
There's no reason why not to recommend this book to everyone.
Life has difficult conversations.
This is a valuable and sensible set of tools to make them more manageable.
It's also a good motivation for introspection: we don't communicate as well as we think we do.
No hay razón para no recomendar este libro a todo el mundo.
La vida tiene conversaciones difíciles y este libro presenta una colección de herramientas bastante valiosas y razonables para poder enfrentarlas de mejor manera.
También funciona como una buena motivación para hacer un poco de introspección: en realidad no nos comunicamos tan bien como nos gusta pensar.
This book deals with all these by offering a structured way of viewing, initiating and navigating difficult conversations, whether with colleagues, bosses, friends, loved ones, etc.The first point in the book is that difficult conversations have three parts or aspects: What Happened, Feelings and Identity.
The authors spend some time in the book discussing helpful ways to reframe identities built on past experiences.Another important section addresses how to decide whether or not to have the difficult conversation in the first place.
A little pre-thinking about aim and outcome and personal contribution are recommended.Finally, the book ends with a handy Guide for thinking through a conversation and an excellent FAQs section that I got a lot out of.

In my opinion, this is a must-read for everyone.
A big-picture look at all kinds of difficult conversations, it shares a template for preparing for, reframing, thinking clearly about, and having difficult conversations.
What's a difficult conversation?
I'm not much worse than everyone else in how I feel and think about touchy subjects and difficult relationships...
It asks tough questions, but if you take the time to dig deep and find the answers, you'll be much more prepared for difficult conversations.
I didn't even know this was a part of why I dread certain conversations, but it fits.
Probably one of the most immediately useful books I've read.
There are infinite ways that a conversation can go, and this book gives some very helpful ideas on how to approach the difficult or uncomfortable ones.
I actually bought several copies and give them to friends regularly whenever I get the sense that their difficult situations could benefit from a different approach.
I've probably given away at least 10 copies of this book.
but for some of us having a road map helps a lot.I try to re-read it regularly to keep it fresh in my mind.
Advice and techniques for handling sticky or unpleasant exchanges (with a co-worker, subordinate, friend, significant other-in a manner that accomplishes your objective and diminishes the possibility that anyone will be needlessly hurt.
This is an amazing book. I highly recommend it to anybody who.. talks to other people, basically. The strategies described are very complex and I think it takes quite some time and dedication to get them working.
One of the best books about people relationships that I've ever read. Very well structured and simple. Really useful for business and personal relationships.
Immediately useful.
However, this is not to say I didn’t take lots away from reading it.
Dealing with any conflict starts with an open mindedness to the fact that your account of certain events may not hold the ultimate truth, and the ability to address that fact in a debate without triggering self-identity related defensiveness is not something the majority of us master naturally.Useful read, but my tip would be to read the occasional chapter on the side along with another “main” book.
Indeed, the (in my opinion) most important discussion of how badly we need to increase our individual and collective capacities to have more difficult conversations these days was unfortunately crammed into a few pages of a bulky appendix to the ten-year anniversary edition.
The light-a-fire-in-your-belly discussion of how this all relates to our interconnectedness and being human, etc.
In many ways, the authors repackage or appropriate the wisdom of other cultures, faiths, and peoples as their own--in classic Harvard/self-help style.Nevertheless, this is a worthwhile read to anybody looking to better engage in--and then navigate--the most important (and necessary) conversations.
Dopo quasi un anno sono riuscita a terminare questo libro che dormicchiava nella mia libreria e che ho letto con fatica.
Grande lode ai contenuti ma meno a scorrevolezza e lunghezza del volume.
Ci sono molti esempi ed è piuttosto comprensibile.Un po' perché questi contenuti devono essere "messi alla prova" e un po' perché devono rimanerti in testa, non è un libro che si legge velocemente e senza pause.
Ciò che invece poteva essere migliorato era la lunghezza in sé dei vari capitoli che alcune volte ripetono all'infinito lo stesso concetto diventando tediosi.
This is the best book I've read on having difficult conversations in all sorts of settings; business or personal. Each chapter builds on the previous ones and I found the knowledge in this book built on the common-sense logic I have gleaned through various courses. Having said that, the concepts presented in this book, although easy to understand will take time and practice to integrate into real-time situations. Definitely worth another read at a later date.
