https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3698.The_Quiet_American
How is it possible, we asked then, we acted righteously so why such bad feeling, such turbulence in our mind?
Something that still bothers and troubles me and pours cold water over me, my whole self - confidence and well-being.Because no matter how much we abide by our principles and sense of morality we constantly collide with the concept of the lesser evil and the common good, in short with situations that allow us or even encourage to justify our actions or omissions.
And so is Thomas Fowler, somewhat cynical English reporter, for years residing in the East, whose life motto is to be not  engaged .
'I shut my eyes and she was again the same as she used to be: she was the hiss of steam, the clink of a cup, she was a certain hour of the night, and the promise of rest.' Sometimes a few notable books cause me to start thinking just I turn the last page.
So, excuse me for beginning this review with some of my latest ruminations.
When I reflect on the meaning of life, although I am not a philosopher I do that sometimes, the fact that we are here for such a short while strikes me as so dismal.
I prefer to read it as a love triangle where Fowley, the surly middle-aged British war correspondent; and Pyle, the young and naïve American spy; dispute the love and possession of the young and beautiful Vietnamese Phuong.
Despite the fact that some can view the Vietnamese as weak and ignorant, Fowler by the end presents us the reality of Phuong, and for me, it could not be more honest, for these are people that in their effort to survive have to make the most of what they have.
Fowler realizes late in his affair that he loved Phuong, also discover that life sometimes has its way of forcing on us to make a stand.
This is a cautionary tale about the involvement of America and Britain in the Vietnam war.
Reading this book was a great way to learn more about the Vietnam war.The two main characters are symbols of the American and British participation in Vietnam.
The British does not want to get involved in the war, and he is deluding himself that he is only an indifferent spectator.
If one is to remain human.” Another is somehow similar to the other book that I was reading in the same time, Blindness.
The perfect novel.Ingenious in its pace and tone. The plot unravels in a peculiar, non-linear way, easily enviable by even the most capable of writers. Perhaps because it is more like a meaty novella about star-crossed lovers, hidden intentions, and the war of the classes that it makes it's powerful, jarring punch to the gut.I LoooVE this book. It's incredibly elegant, both prophetic and historic, & very very adult.
O forse perché a cofirmare la sceneggiatura c’è il premio Oscar (con Le relazione pericolose) Christopher Hampton, che aveva debuttato vent’anni prima proprio con un altro adattamento di Greene, Il console onorario.E allora il commissario Vigot, bel personaggio marginale, che legge i “Pensieri” di Pascal in commissariato alle 2 del mattino, che ama non ricambiato la sua vistosa e promiscua moglie francese, così pregno di disincanto e sagacia (risolve il caso, ma tiene tutto per sé), viene interpretato in questa pellicola dal croato Rade Serbedzija, che si sforza di avere un inglese venato di francese, il che mi sembra chiedere troppo anche a un attore poliglotta come lui.E allora il flemmatico e distaccato Fowler in questo film diventa quasi un giornalista d’inchiesta più che un reporter.
We were tasked to read a book (or watch a movie but...) and write a paper about how a journalist is presented in the.
Unfortunately, there was a blacklist as well and all the books I had in my mind were on it.
And I am a bit angry that I did not know this book before!
Graham Greene has a unique way how to tell a story and I really liked it.“Death was far more certain than God.” The most interesting was the difference between Fowler and Pyle.
Pyle is new, full of hopes, believing in pretty theories he read about.
It is their problem.The annoying American changes all that, and it seems to me the American—Pyle, by name—is presented by Greene as an extension of America itself: innocent in its idealistic principles, yet dangerous in its perceived lack of guilt for the harm its idealism causes.Without getting into specifics, there is more to Pyle than meets the eye, and even though I did not love this story as much as I had hoped to, it did pull together for me in the end.
This is an amazing story about the French colonial war in Vietnam and an incompetent CIA-wanna be agent seen through the eyes of a heroin-addicted British diplomat. Cynicism abounds. Great writing, gripping scenes. Excellent read. A true classic. I definitely need to read more Graham Greene.If you enjoyed this book and wish to have more background on the historical canvas on which the story was painted, I highly suggest Fredrik Logevall's Embers of War about the French Indochina War and Frances Fitzgerald's masterful Fire in the Lake about the Vietnamese and the American conflict. Gripping stories.
"War and Love -- they have always been compared."Like The End of the Affair, this is a Greene novel that affects you viscerally.
The human condition being what it was, let them fight, let them love, let them murder, I would not be involved.
Perhaps if I wanted to be understood or to understand I would bam-boozle myself into belief, but I am a reporter; God exists only for leader-writers."Greene has proven to me that he articulates internal struggles exceptionally well: the ruminating but judgmental mind, the bustling churnings of the inside.
It's partly love story, partly war and courage story, partly suffering and sad story, partly a story of repent and partly a story filled with selfishness.Do read the below lines to get a feel of what this book is about, and then read this book.
Sometimes this is mistaken by the innocent for unselfishness, when all I was doing is sacrificing a small good - in this case postponement in attending to my hurt - for the sake of a far greater good, a peace of mind when I need think only of myself.""In the moment of shock there is little pain...""Suffering is not increased by numbers : one body can contain all the suffering the world can feel." "Everything had gone right with me since he had died, but how I wished there existed someone to whom I could say that I was sorry."
In the precarious phase of this tale, I agree on the brilliance Zadie Smith credits Greene with in painting such a moving story in simple grays, “the honest venality of Phuong, the disengagement of Fowler, the innocence of Pyle.”Ultimately, what pleased me most was the book’s somehat paradoxical messages that seem prescient and modern for something written in 1955, obviously informed by Greene’s own experience as a correspondent there.
Are we looking for profundity in the brevity, a way to either surpass our life's span or are we simply trying to forget about its paltry duration?
Graham Greene wrote, "From childhood I had never believed in permanence, and yet I had longed for it.
I can see how this changeless and permanent idea is an aberration, but its calmative powers are not that insignificant.
The idea that there is something greater than life and death, past all effort of comprehension.
But these are the things through his writing that are getting to me.
Innocence is a kind of insanity.' (p155) The crux of the story the crux of the entire sad history of nations trying to remake Southeast Asia in a Western image.As I read The Quiet American, I felt myself sliding down a slippery path to a very messy era I remember all too well.
I can't do that though the English language provides the same word for these two people in very different situations.This was my first reading of The Quiet American and I found myself reliving some of those days around the TV in the mid 60s as we watched the news reports coming in from Viet Nam. Greene certainly did know that world and all the players.
The American in question is Alden Pyle, a young man with an ‘unused face’, who arrives in war-stricken Vietnam, seemingly as some kind of charity or aid worker, and quickly befriends an Englishman, Thomas Fowler, and his native girlfriend, Phuong.
This triangle comes to dominate the novel, and has both political and personal repercussions.The Quiet American is narrated by Fowler, and he describes Pyle numerous times as naïve and innocent.
Both Pyle and Fowler are outsiders, or invaders if you like, fighting over a Vietnamese, and while the American may be frequently described as innocent, the only real innocent in the situation is Phuong, who comes to represent the ordinary civilian during the war.
Fowler, Pyles and Phuong are representations of the three elements that are trying to mix in Vietnam, and they are as unable to do it as individuals as they were as nations.
I think she would tell you that they are too foreign to understand--and there is the rub, they are the foreigners, she is at home.During one of their discussions, Fowler tells Pyle of the Vietnamese citizens: "They want enough rice,' I said, 'They don't want to be shot at.
The story follows a British journalist covering the war, who meets a seemingly naive and mysterious American with idealized notions of what's best of the native population, and who swoops in and steals the Brit's bit of foreign good-time fluff.
The military conflict mirrors the human relationship, and the same questions can be asked of both situations: "What are you doing here?" and "Why are you interfering?"I keep trying to enjoy Greene's books, but it just ain't happening.
Greene published this book set in Vietnam during the build up to what became the Vietnam war in 1955 which in itself is eery in that the ideas expressed about America's role in South East Asia was proven to be true as the 60s and 70s came.Thomas Fowler is a cynical, world weary British journalist stationed in Vietnam, reporting the basics of what was occurring based on the "favourable" press conferences held by the French Imperialist forces.
This is particularly shown in the conversations between Fowler and the French policeman, Fowler and the French pilot as well as between Fowler and Pyle.Brilliant and moving, I can see why my brother was a devotee of Greene's.PS.
Introduction--The Quiet American
After all, Fowler acknowledges that:“I began - almost unconsciously - to run down everything that was American...You know, it's lucky I'm not engagé, there are things I might be tempted to do - because here in the East, well, I don't like Ike.”On Getting InvolvedFowler maintains a stance of objectivity, detachment and non-involvement in local politics as a condition of his journalistic ethics.
They are the satin gloves that disguise the iron fist of American aggression, even before the commencement of the Vietnamese War. U.S. Embassy in Saigon (as at 1955)On Arming the Shoddy Little BanditPyle ends up supplying pipe and bicycle bombs to General Thé, the leader of a small rebel group which he thinks will become a Third Way or Third Force in Vietnamese politics that opposes both French colonialism and Chinese-inspired communism.
I’ve only read three Graham Greene’s so far, but he definitely seems like a writer whose works I should look into more.
The moral ambiguity is far more than poor deluded Alden Pyle’s naive belief in bringing democracy to the natives though.
Our man Fowler looks like a hero no?
When, she asks, will his promise of forever to Phoang turn to ashes like it did for the other women?
What, she asks, will it leave Phoang with, abandoned in cold gloomy England far from home?
Greene asks where our moral choices leave us, and it seems his answer is that whatever path we take, they all lead to damnation.
While I did enjoyed the book, I was expecting more.
On top of that Pyle falls for Fowler's (much, much younger) Vietnamese girlfriend (his ever suffering wife lives in England) and vows, in an absurdly civil manner, to win her and take her for his wife.Oh, and Pyle is totally an American intelligent Agent dispatched to persecute said anti-Communist crusade.So while on the surface this is a story of two men and a woman in a nation at war, it serves as a much larger observation about the state of world affairs.
As a critique of American intervention in foreign affairs, the story was excellent.
I realize the character was supposed to be symbolic of the country--both men, American and British, wanted to possess her, without understanding her.
But it's hard to read a book where women aren't allowed to be women--full fleshed, intelligent and capable of self determination.Here, I was doing acrobatics to make the story palatable.
I get that the sliminess is the point, but ew.It makes me grateful for books like "Regeneration" which make important points, but with all the characters fully drawn.
The writing is beautiful and it tells an important story.
The End of the Innocents"'God save us always,' [Tom Fowler] said, 'from the innocent and the good.'" The Quiet American“The essence of Greeneland, if one may dare to try and define it, is the combination of the exotic and the romantic with the sordid and the banal.” Christopher Hitchens, Introduction to Orient Express, by Graham GreeneAnother vatic novel by Graham Greene, this time predicting, in 1955, the failures to come from American foreign policy and intervention in Vietnam, intended to save the Vietnamese from colonialism and communism but instead leading to disastrous results.
This is a novel about the good intentions that pave the road to Hell…Greene’s prose is truly beautiful, simple yet elegant, and I couldn’t stop thinking about how eerie it was that he penned this novel in 1955, making it more than a bit prophetic: it could be looked at either as a strange love triangle, or as a metaphor for the way naïve, well-meaning Americans clumsily try to help out people they perceive as less privileged or sophisticated than them – and wreck everything in the process.Post-WWII Britain was on the decline: exhausted, struggling (and failing) to keep its various colonies in check, not sure how to really find its place in the 20th century; as where post-WWII ‘Murica was triumphantly buoyed by its newly acquired image as liberators of the oppressed.
Είχα την αίσθηση πως έβλεπα μπροστά μου τους νεκρούς ανθρώπους στο νερό, ότι βρισκόμουν στη βάρκα που σπρώχνοντας να περάσει στην άλλη πλευρά τράκαρε κάθε τόσο με ένα κεφάλι, μια πλευρά, το αφύσικα λευκό χέρι κάποιου, με το νερό να γυαλίζει πάνω του κάτω απ’ το φεγγάρι.
Αφού λοιπόν το βιβλίο κάνει κοιλιές που μας τις παρουσιάζεις τόσο γλαφυρά, γιατί δεν το παράτησες ρωτάει ο προσεκτικός αναγνώστης… Ποια είναι η απάντηση σ’ αυτό άραγε; Όχι δεν το άφησα και παρότι είναι αρχές του μήνα και ήδη έχω ξεμείνει από λεφτά, παρήγγειλα την Καρδιά των πραγμάτων και αν δεν έφτανα στο όριο να περάσω στην κατάσταση του να τρώω ρύζι, ντομάτες και πατατάκια απ’ το Λιντλ για όλο τον υπόλοιπο μήνα, έχω αρκετές γνωριμίες σε παλαιοβιβλιοπωλεία απ’ αυτά που δεν έχουν ψαγμένες ιστοσελίδες, για να μπορώ να βρω όλα τα βιβλία του.
[Disclaimer: I only read the novel portion of this book, not the hundreds of pages analysis.]Have you ever wondered what Donald “I don’t do nuance” Rumsfeld was like as a young man?
Look no further than The Quiet American.You see, Graham Greene mingled with guys like Rumsfeld all the time when he worked as a journalist in Vietnam in the 1950s.
In fact, he was moved to the point of writing a piece of fiction with an English journalist named Fowler who plays an active role in assassinating the guy.
I don’t know why Greene divides his books into “entertainments” and “novels”, when the novels are so entertaining.
But I guess some are more light weight and only meant to entertain, while this book is packed with ideas.
Mixing an absurd spy farce, a cynical “love” story, and prophecy of U.S. involvement in Vietnam which was set and written ten years before the hoi polloi of America could probably find Vietnam on a map.
It's a love triangle between Fowler, a crusty old British journalist; Pyle, the bright, young, naive American CIA man; and Phuong, the beautiful Vietnamese girl who represents - of course - all of Vietnam.
The only thing he was right about was the fact that America - like Pyle - was going to end up getting killed.
I love this scene, where Fowler is describing the failure of his relationship with his wife, back in England:Her pain struck at my pain: we were back at the old routine of hurting each other.
