https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/421643.Spiderweb_for_Two
I've loved this author's book Then There Were Five for many years; it's a charming, old-fashioned tale of four siblings who live in a country home, during WWII.
One of my GR friends alerted me to this 1951 sequel, which I had never heard of before, but luckily for me my local library had a copy.In this book the three older children have left for boarding school, leaving the two younger siblings, Miranda (Randy) and Oliver, morose.
The treasure hunt and its many mysterious clues that Randy and Oliver have to solve got a little tiresome, though the middle grade set may find it more interesting than I did.
This book was really engaging with a mystery to solve with clues and all the usual poetic details of seasonal nature, family dynamics, memories and humour we have grown to love in the Melendy series.
We love doing hunts with clues and regularly have them in the garden or with clues in books but felt inspired by this story to have some hidden in places that we know.
Elizabeth Enright's illustrations are wonderful, if you're buying a Melendy book make sure you're not buying one without.
This leaves the youngest kids, Randy and Oliver, at home in the country, and they're a bit apprehensive about how quiet and lonesome their fall and winter and spring are going to be.
But it's still fun to read, and charming, and often really hilariously funny: there's an episode near the end of the book involving Oliver and a chimney flue that had me laughing riotously/feeling glad I was reading this particular chapter at home instead of on the subway or something, and another episode involving "taking the waterfall off" that was similarly excellent.
There are still bits of lyrical loveliness, too: I particularly liked the chapter in which Oliver finds his way through a forest of pokeweed and meets a new friend, an old woman named Louisianna Bishop.
I think each of my kids saw themselves in the four Melendy children, Mona, Rush, Randy and Oliver.
We enjoyed the whole series immensely, but this book was a great way to end.
As the older Melendy children have moved away for school, Randy and Oliver find themselves a little lonely.
But fun is in store for them as they find a clue to a complex treasure hunt, created just for them, that takes them months to complete, right up to the time the older children come home for summer vacation.
The reader is in on all the fun of figuring out the riddles and rhymes along the way.
This is perhaps my fourth visit to this book, and I'm still bemused that I dismissed it so thoroughly as a kid, when all the other Enrights were read to tatters.
I think it's because of the clue/mystery format (see also my failure to like The Westing Game).
Once I was through all the Nancy Drew books, I figured I knew all there was to know about mysteries which was that they were mostly annoying, sometimes boring and every now and then way too suspenseful to read in order.
07/11 I am growing to love this one as much as I love the rest of the Melendy series.
Here's a quote that I adore from this one:"The truth was that the young Melendys were acquiring a taste for old cemeteries.
It was pleasant to walk between the stones, tracing the half-eroded names, the epitaphs, some beautiful, some sadly funny, some grotesque."I love that we get to spend more time with Father in this book.
And I love the story from Cuffy's youth!
Any Melendy book is better than no Melendy book, even if Rush and Mark and Mona are reduced to walk-on characters.
My 7yo and I LOVED this series as a read aloud. Enright speaks right to the 12 yo that's still inside me. I hope my daughter rereads these herself when she is a bit older. She'll find she identifies with the kids even more. Highly recommend the whole series.
We keenly feel the absence of the three older siblings in this book, yet it is still one of my favorites of the series. The two youngest have a mysterious scavenger hunt set up for them. It could have easily become a lame plot device but it is cleverly and charmingly executed
This is a book that I loved growing up, and read a number of times.
My very very favorite books were spared, as I had taken them away with me, but the fire took place right before I became serious about collecting Children’s and YA literature, so a lot of great stuff was lost.
This was one such book.It is the last of four books about the Melendy family, four (later five) siblings living in New York (and the surrounding countryside) in the 1940’s.
This book takes place after the three oldest siblings have gone off to school, and the two youngest are left at home, bereft.
In this final volume of the Melendy quartet the older children are off to boarding school leaving Randy and Oliver behind.
The younger children are bored without their lively family until a mysterious note arrives in the mail leaving clues to a scavenger hunt.
This story is not quite as good as the previous three.
I figured out who sent the notes and what the outcome would be right away, but I still had fun trying to figure out the clues.
I enjoyed seeing more of the neighbors and friends who dropped out of the previous stories.
Though this one isn't quite up to the standards of the previous Melendy books, my lukewarm initial reaction quickly warmed up.I adore Oliver and in this book, his personality became even stronger.
Though the clues almost got old, the moments of discovery were well worth it.And then the delightful ending made the whole book even better.One of the things I really love about these books is the friendships that develop between the kids and adults they encounter.
I adore Oliver's relationship with Mr. Titus, the new relationship with Miss Bishop, and the fact that Mrs. Oliphant just keeps coming back in all of her glory.
The three elder siblings are off to boarding school leaving Randy and Oliver alone at home. But to help the months to summer go by somebody has arranged for a series of clues leading Randy and Oliver to all kinds of locations as they race to solve the puzzle. Final book in the quartet. The focus on Oliver and Randy and their bonding over the course of the year is just wonderful.
I'm sad to say goodbye to the Melendy children. These books are delightful. The children have much love for their family and friends and a wonderful sense of adventure.Read to my children along with my Howard nephews and nieces.
This, along with Tatsinda, are my two favorite Enrights!
This was the paciest and the best of the Melendy quartet. Thoroughly enjoyed it.
This last book of the Melendy quartet focuses on the two younger siblings, Randy and Oliver.
In it is a clue to a treasure hunt that will last from September the until the older three kids come home for the summer.
Oliver searches for a clue on the roof of their home, also known as the four-story mistake during a windstorm.
They search in cemeteries and in the chimney and manage to frustrate both Cuffy and Willy the handyman on several occasions.In the end, the last clue leads to Mrs. Oliphant’s new house where their father and siblings are waiting for them.
Enright, in common with so many series authors, merrily forgets the parameters she herself set up in books 1 and 2.
The Melendys are supposed to be rather hard up--so hard up, in fact, that Mr Melendy can afford to send three (count em, three) kids to boarding school, owns a Ming porcelain figure as well as Spode and Wedgewood china, and let's not forget the big old four-storey house (well, three and a half) with two live-in servants!
The kids do go carolling at one point but that was actually quite common at the time this book was published.
Even when I read the series as a child many many years ago, it already had the sepia-toned feel to it, and as an adult, I marvel at the elegant (if dated) prose that captured the beauty of the countryside so vividly.In this book, the two youngest children, Randy and Oliver, are left at home while their older siblings go off to school in the city, and misses them terribly.
Unlike the more sober turn of the third book, that saw them taking into the fold a new adopted brother, Mark, having rescued him from an abusive family, this one is filled with holiday cheer and familial warmth, a perfect reprieve from the darker and heavier material that I’ve been reading.
Someone is leaving mysterious clues for Oliver and Randy.
(It's not at all hard to guess who's leaving them.) Rush was always my favorite, so it felt a little like something was missing.
Still, Oliver had his own adventures, so that was neat.
Randy seemed to be a little older, and not quite so daring anymore.
Maybe because Rush is gone?
Anyway, still made me a little sad that this is the last of the Melendy adventures.
But then, a mysterious letter arrives, leading them on a quest from clue to clue.
Who created this mystery hunt, and what prize awaits them at the end?This is nearly as delightful as the other Melendy books, though I chuckled at another review that said it was like when a TV show starts a new season, but half the cast haven’t renewed their contracts!
And I think that this book stands pretty well on its own — for readers who enjoy old-fashioned stories, I’d say start at the beginning of the series, but young readers who love a good puzzle mystery could start here.
The "Melendy Family" quartet concludes with this book, in which the two youngest and most misadventure-prone of the Melendy children are left behind at the Four Story Mistake, while elder siblings Mona, Rush, and Mark are going to school in the big city.
And the touch of mystery involved in the rhyming clues occupies not only the left-behind Melendy children, but also their readers of any age, who are willing to become young again and share their discoveries.This is the sixth book by Elizabeth Enright that I have read, and I have yet to read her Newbery Medal-winning book Thimble Summer.
Those can be fun, and no mistake; but the essential things are right here in the Melendy family's well-crafted characters, setting, dialogue, and story.
Oh, if only Elizabeth Enright had written more Melendy books so I could re-read them more often. This is the last one, in which the two youngest are left alone with their beloved housekeeper/mother figure Cuffy, for a winter and follow a mysterious set of clues, each leading toward a surprise. For me it's the literary equivalent of warm milk and I have been re-reading it before bedtime as a way to wind down.
This book pleasantly surprised me. I had already read it, and remembered being a bit bored when I was younger. On the contrary, I was not bored at all. I loved the fun and clever hiding spots, and it has inspired me to do something similar for my brothers. The one part that I didn't enjoy as much was the lack of Mona, Rush, and Mark (but that was the whole premise of the plot). This series is absolutely golden!
3.5 stars.
Oh I do like those children. They're not too good and not too naughty and not too stupid.
While I love Randy and Oliver, I do miss Mona, Rush, and Mark. Still, this book is a faithful old brick. All in all, it's a good series that I enjoy(ed) very much.
I loved this series as a child and this may have been my favorite book in the series. The mystery element adds to the story.
Adored all the Melendy books!
Not as good as the other Melendy books, but I missed the family.
Another fun Melendy kids book to read out loud. . We missed the older siblings, I especially love rush and Marc, but Oliver and randy hold their own.
