https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/201547.The_Hunger
Whitley Strieber has a way of coming up with some truly creepy and unsettling ideas about eternal life that made me shudder.
The whole idea that these vampires are not able to die, no matter what happens to their body is truly ghastly if you think about it.
Miriam is a monster, changing humans into vampires, knowing full well what will happen to her lovers.
Reading the book, you understand why Miriam does the things she does.
Of course I don’t read much horror and tend to shy away from books that will bother me.Anyway, I really liked the way Strieber played with the vampire legend, creating a new race.
The book is similar to the film, with a few changes. The book tells alot more of Miriam's backstory, and goes into vampire physiology in more detail. I thought the middle of the story got bogged down, and could have been better with some editing. An OK read.
"The woman must literally be reliving her life," Tom said. "It must be a thousand times more vivid than a normal dream.""I hope it's been a nice life.""It hasn't," Sarah said. She knew that it was true."   I have never read a book that so concisely illustrated that we, human or vampire, are all monsters. It was a vivid and brutal exploration of the hungers, of the love and hate, that drive us. Miriam and Sarah, vampire and human, each see the other as a predator, each see their own motivations
"It must be a thousand times more vivid than a normal dream.""I hope it's been a nice life.""It hasn't," Sarah said.
I have never read a book that so concisely illustrated that we, human or vampire, are all monsters.
It was a vivid and brutal exploration of the hungers, of the love and hate, that drive us.
Miriam and Sarah, vampire and human, each see the other as a predator, each see their own motivations as noble.
Because even monsters have high opinions of themselves.There were flashbacks of Miriam's past filled with such grief, brutality, and fear that I was torn between tears and vomiting.
This book follows two characters who eventually meet.
One of them is a vampire weary of life on her own and who is always searching for a companion (it seems whoever she turns has an expiraton date) and one of them is a scientist trying to cure sleep problems and accidentally brushing upon expanding lifespan by altering sleep.
The two views are very interesting because while following the vampire's plot line, one can feel empathy knowing what she's been through and her actions are absolutely justified.
However, seeing it from her "companion's" (=victim's) point of view, she looks like a selfish monster who shouldn't exist.
The book somehow flowed slowly and steadily and the plot twists weren't big enough to thrill or excite.
I really liked this, it was a solid vampire novel.
The main character, Miriam, is monstrous at times but I loved her wickedness.
John, her current lover, begins to age and Miriam panics & seeks out a way to stop his aging.
Sarah a scientist researching immortality is targeted by Miriam.
Miriam feels Sarah might hold the key to keeping John young.
But as John becomes more unpredictable consumed by his hunger, Miriam begins to look to Sarah not as a way to cure John but as a replacement for John.
For Vampire/horror lovers this one is worth checking out.
I had read this before, a long time ago. I remembered that I liked it and I thought I remembered how it ended but I guess not! I don't think I've ever read a vampire book where the author has so successfully shown us that vampires are not humans. Miriam is not human in the least. Whitley Strieber does a beautiful job with this. I love the flash backs! that's almost always my favorite part of any vampire book. I'm glad I took the time to reread this.
While the movie didn't hold my interest as much as I thought it would, this book kept me up reading way past my bedtime like few other books have recently.The vampire mythology presented in this book is the main reason for my love of it.
In both books, they try to scientifically describe the vampire (in The Hunger, Miriam - our only true vampire - is never actually called a vampire ...
This alone inspired my own version of the vampire mythology, something I hope to weave into a novel (or two).In any case, any horror fan and especially any vampire fan, needs to read this book.
A true page turner. Well-written and smart. A wholly original vampire novel.
Ella tiene más de tres mil años de edad y John apenas la acompaña desde hace un par de siglos, pero Miriam le ama; tanto como a todas las otras parejas que ha tenido a lo largo del tiempo, ya que aunque su sangre les da cierta longevidad no consigue ofrecer su aparente inmunidad al paso del tiempo.
John comienza a tener, primero, alteraciones de sueño, y después comienza a envejecer con rapidez.
La investigación de un grupo de científicos sobre trastornos de sueño llama la atención de Miriam.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
The word "vampire" itself is not mentioned anywhere in the whole book, what may be an attempt to avoid the expectation of a more traditional version of the myth.
There are some interesting romantic triangles in this novel and Strieber deftly portrays love as being finite and selfish.
In the end, the object of love is not important, but the love projected onto it.Although there are some inconsistencies in the way some characters behave by the end of the book, it is a very good novel and I would recommend it.
In my opinion The Hunger is one of the great vampire novels of all time.
The protagonist is a ravishing and ancient vampire, beautiful, talented, wealthy, able to walk in the sun but with one tragic flaw...she can't stand being.
Her companions share in her wondrous lifestyle, traveling the world, inflecting pain and pleasure on those that interest them but unfortunately, not for long.
They are doomed to wither and age in a couple of hundred years like her most current companion.
Wonderful book, worth a read by anyone who likes their vampire novels intelligent.
A classic "vampire" book on which the even more classic film "The Hunger"(1983)was based. The opening film sequence where Deneuve and Bowie are spotting their prey in an 80s goth club while Peter Murphy sings "Bela Lugozi's Dead" is def. anthology.The book has a subtle eroticism to it (as well as the film). I liked how the author "saw" vampires: As creatures with less supernatural aspects and more human-like features as well as the mythology surrounding Miriam whose travel through time was fascinating!I loved her ancient Rome period ;)
There were parts that were brilliant (Miriam's memories, the vampire lore, their hunger, basically everything that had to do with the vampires), but yet I kept feeling like something was missing.
Even though I was thinking "Oh boy, this is really cool" while reading particular scenes, I didn't actually enjoy the book much, but I can't put my finger on why.Maybe I just didn't like the human characters and didn't care for them?
I was definitely very tired of hearing about how ~brilliant~ Sarah is all the freaking time.
I don't think he succeeded.I'll say one thing, though: the book was better than its movie adaptation, that bored me to (un)death.
Before reading this, I never imagined it was possible to hate every single important speaking character in a story, but here we are at The Hunger.
I hated weird Miriam and the way she keeps her lovers alive, folded knees to chest in boxes, traveling the world for centuries with a woman who won't let them out or let them die.
I didn't get a real impression of what kind of people he wanted his characters to be, besides nasty.
On the other hand, Miriam was the only character who was well-formed.
And seeing what they end up going through hurts her, and each time she turns someone she swears that she will find a way to save them.The story opens when Miriam’s lover Tom is beginning to show signs of age.
But she’s also learned about a scientist named Sarah who is studying the relationship between sleep and aging, and she thinks that Sarah’s work might mean that she can find a cure for all of her previous lovers who have withered.
It’s also a risk, because it means letting someone from the scientific community learn about vampires, and Miriam knows that revealing oneself never ends well.
I got the idea that Strieber felt that love was an important part of the human condition and maybe talking about Miriam loving as well was supposed to endear her to us (the readers) or present her as just as sympathetic as the humans in the book.
I mean she (Miriam) is so cautious about even riding in a car, trying to protect her immortal future - you'd think she'd be worried about a killer human vampire that is hiding in her house and understands her entire security systems, not to mention that he's going around feasting on humans in her neighborhood, something sure to draw attention.I was disappointed in John's end as well.
Could not get into it at all.
A human transfused with vampire blood can become LIKE a vampire but eventually he or she will resist the vampire blood and the result will be both constant hunger and rapid aging.
It’s part vampire story and part medical thriller.
As in the film version, Miriam is a vampire.
Roberts’ may have accidentally created the mutation – the origin of her species – through her primate research on sleep and aging.It’s well-plotted and works as page-turning fiction.
If you like vampire novels and/or medical thrillers, then the answer is yes.(A more detailed and expansive version of this review appears on my blog: http://www.blooddiva.com/the-hunger-b...)
I suppose my favourite sequences are early on where we get snippets into Miriam's past and the creation of her first companion in the ancient world.
The rest of the story follows Miriam's companion John's descent into madness and her quest to replace John with blood scientist Sarah.The writing is functional, but lacks...
I don't know if this is simply because its written by a man, but I fail to connect emotionally with the characters - Miriam is cold, alien and ultimately monstrous - that's OK because she is other.
A defining novel in its genre, The Hunger offers an original, different angle on the typical "vampire" story. Whitley Strieber, one of my favorite novelists for this reason (his very different view on what is now common topics) is the best at what he does: horror with a more realistic twist. Written before the popular novels of today (came out in 1981), The Hunger is gritty and dark while taking us from ancient times to the present. This classy novel is highly recommended as incomparable in its genre!

I loved this book. I didn't think I would, but it sucked me in right from the first page. The pacing was excellent, and what I loved about it the most was how perfectly the author struck the balance between exposition and leaving some questions - including arguably the most important and intriuging question of all - unanswered, or open to interpretation and imagination. And I got the ending I wanted as well, one a less fearless author would perhaps have shied away from. An excellent read indeed.
Amazingly beautiful and horrifying. I suppose it's only fitting, and a pertinent commentary on our linguistic tropes, that I devoured this book and was left craving more.Although shockingly, this may be one of the very, very few instances where I think the ending of the film actually improved on the book.
There are also some extremely clunky sex scenes; I'm going to generously imagine that the awkwardness of these was intentional, as the book often seems to take Miriam's point of view that human relationships are stupid.It ends in a way that makes the rest of the book almost entirely irrelevant, and leaves things open for a sequel, which he apparently wrote a couple of.
She is the last remaining vampire she knows anything about, but she thinks (hopes?) there may be others elsewhere.Miriam has always been fond of humans.
Her latest companion, a man called John, has begun to deteriorate much sooner than she expected.Sarah is a scientist, a researcher into sleep patterns and sleep disorders.
Until one of them suddenly loses the ability to sleep in this fashion, goes crazy, and kills the other one.Miriam finds out about Sarah and her research and, thinking she can perhaps have Sarah’s help to work on the problem of decaying companions, sets out to make Sarah her next companion.There is a great deal of talk about love, nobility, and sacrifice in this book, but none of the characters seem to be especially loving.
Aparte del hecho de que me caían mal casi todos los personajes principales y de que el plan de John se notaba de lejos que era una tontera que no le llevaría a nada, me gustó bastante este libro.Hasta hizo que al final me preocupara por Sarah y Tom y quisiera que se salvasen.A Miriam la odié, por egoísta y mentirosa, no me interesa su soledad.
nunca mencionan la palabra vampiro a lo largo del libro \o/
El Ansia.Cuando intentas ganar en un juego en el que la derrota es tentativamente una constante, el resultado es un sueño roto con cada intento y por tal motivo la esperanza está sobrevalorada.Pero los sueños en la vida o la muerte motivan, y ante el ansia de amar, el ansia de conocer, el ansia de éxito, el ansia de vivir; se puede perder cualquier cualidad que nos condiciona como buenas buenas personas.El tiempo pasa y la naturaleza acabará rompiendo cualquier sueño.La ciencia del horror.Disfrut de la sed que la bendición de ser un vampiro provoca.
On the pro side, this book has a certain raw narrative power and I like the way it ends. However, the prose is workmanlike at best, the plot is sometimes clunky, and several important character decisions don't make a lot of sense. In addition, the author sometimes seems compelled to describe exactly what every single character is feeling at every single moment, which drags down the pace considerably. In sum, not terrible, but also not great.
I loved this. Until the lousy ending. It felt rushed compared to the rest of the book.Otherwise It would have given 5 stars. At $21 for the next ebook, I won't be in a hurry to continue this series.
Set off well, countinued with very promising fake-science potential, which then all of the sudden took the path paved with a series of unreasonable set of decisions to end up being a well written but irritating missed opportunity.
