https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/825081.Lilly_s_Purple_Plastic_Purse
“Lilly’s Purple Plastic Purse” is a children’s book by Kevin Henkes that details the relationship that Lilly has with her teacher Mr. Slinger and how one event almost causes a huge rift between them.
One day however, Lilly got a new purple plastic purse and movie star glasses and she wanted to show them to the class, but Mr. Slinger kept telling Lilly that she should wait until sharing time to share her purse.
I’d seen this book, but its title did not seem at all appealing to me; I didn’t know what it was about but what my imagination conjured up was so far off the mark.This is a wonderful story about Lilly (I haven’t yet read the earlier two books in which she’s featured) who loves her teacher so much she wants to be a teacher too, until she has a very difficult day.
Lilly loves her teacher--he is funny and stylish and kind.
Lilly wants to be a lot of things when she grows up, like a diva and a doctor, but right now she really, really wants to be a teacher because she is so inspired by her own.
Suddenly, Lilly doesn't want to be a teacher anymore and she writes a mean story about her "purse thief" teacher.
But, soon Lilly realizes that her teacher's kindness never left as he tried to teach her a lesson about respecting others.
I absolutely love the heart and humor of this story--Lilly's emotions are just so spot-on and the illustrations are a marvelous part of telling the story.
I thought this was a great book; it covers great teachers who provide creative outlets for the kids and inspire them to want to teach. It discusses the exuberance of a young girl (mouse) who gets a new toy and wants so desperately to share it with her classmates, but ends up being a disruption to the class. And finally, best of all, it covers the sensitive topics of frustration, anger, regret and remorse in an easy to understand way. Our girls enjoyed this story, but I loved it for the moralistic lesson it teaches in a non-preachy way.
Darling book... my grand daughter adored it too. : ) Lilly LOVES her new purple plastic purse, and takes it to school for everyone to see. She soon learns that there is a time and place for everything, and not being able to wait as requested by teacher, she loses it. Oh my does she get mad! Now her once super cool teacher is the dirtiest rotten rat on earth! She feels remorse though when he gives it back later with treats inside and she learns forgiveness too.
One of my favorites! Lilly is always a hit!
Really, it's as if two mes are reading.Lilly's Purple Plastic Purse is about a little girl mouse who wants to grow up to be a teacher.
She writes books in his honor, and all her works of art feature him.Then one day she brings a purple plastic purse to school and she can't wait to show it around.
You just wait till parent teacher conferences, buddy.So, her stories and art take on a different tone...Like I said, I've read this to my kids.
I'm pretty sure my attention span was pretty short as a kid.But I'm also reading this as a teacher.
A lesson in forgiveness.Well, we read this again two years later and my son really got into the pictures, pointing things out. He loved it.
I read a lot of books to my children when they were young and this remains one of my and my daughter's favorites.
(I think Julia's really starting to love audio books because I suck at voices.)I love the way she incorporated Lilly's (and the others) thoughts and even if you weren't following right along with the book in print (we were) you'd know just who was saying what and how.There's plenty of room for discussion throughout.
Since Henkes wrote and illustrated this I think I'll have an easy time of it.Julia and I read Kitten's First Full Moon and Chrysanthemum awhile back and if I remember correctly we liked both.
This book has so much going for it - a feisty little protagonist, Lilly, a wise and compassionate teacher, Mr. Slinger, and parents who know what to do when their little girl comes home from school with a tale of woe.
One day Lilly comes to school with her new purple plastic purse that plays a jaunty tune and holds her movie-star sunglasses and three shiny new quarters.
But Lilly's parents and Mr. Slinger all know little girls very well and soon Lilly is feeling better about herself and about Mr. Slinger.
This book is about a little mouse who can't wait to show off her new purple plastic purse that plays a song when it is opened.
She takes it out before sharing time and disturbs the class.
Her teacher takes away her purse and she is devastated without it.
I would use this book to go into a personal narrative that the students could create to tell a story on one of their favorite objects or prized possessions.
They would play the role of showing off their object but also their reaction to it being taken away or losing it, showing it's importance to them.
Lilly is so true to life: charming, exuberant, flawed. This is exactly the type of drama kids experience at school and Henkes captures their feelings perfectly. There is a moment when Lilly realizes the error of her ways, and the illustration shows her getting smaller and smaller....every class I've read it to has so much to say about that feeling, and many other moments in the book. Perfect for teaching text to self connections...and lots of fun to boot.
I really liked this because it accurately depicts how a kid could get in trouble, and shows kids how to deal with difficult emotions like anger, first by showing them what NOT to do. I'd love to use this in my story time, but it is a group of 4's, and it would really be ideal for a slightly older group (k-2).
I remember reading this when it first came out, and I wasn't paying a whole lot of attention to childrens' books at that point. Henkes' books are great fun for both adults and children, and the most fun as a one-on-one read-aloud.
We all learn at some point the life lesson of forgiveness and this book does a great job of making it understandable to kids. Shows that at some point people we care about will disappoint us and it is how we handle the disappointment that really makes us a better person.
My favorite part is the note the teacher gives her: "Today was hard. Tomorrow will be better." Some days I really need a note like that.
It was great
I adore Lilly and almost everything she does. (Unless she was a student in my classroom. Then I'd have to alternate between finding her incredibly charming and witty, and wanting to smack her.)
Such a fun read. We read this tonight to put my son to be and discussed that we knew a couple of little girls just like Lilly.
Cute!
Ages: 4-8 yearsU.S. Grades: Kindergarten-Third GradeLexile® Measure: 540LJuvenile, Fiction, School, Mice, Teacher, Students, Conflict ResolutionLily (mouse) is an outgoing student who loves school and adores her teacher Mr. Slinger.
She is so enthusiastic about school and her teacher that she plays school at home.
This is an ideal book to illustrate conflict resolution.I invited students to wear sunglasses while I read the story, and this was a wonderful book to open a discussion with my students about how Lily could have prevented the problem, and how she can remedy the situation.
The illustrations do an exceptional job of amplifying the text: Lilly dances with excitement, flashes with anger, wanes in remorse, and leaps right off the page with joy.Publishers Weekly (June 10, 1996)Lilly the mouse idolizes her teacher Mr. Slinger, but when she comes to school flaunting three jingly quarters, movie-star glasses and a purple plastic purse "that played a jaunty tune when it was opened," she interrupts Mr. Slinger's lessons on "Types of Cheese" and words that rhyme with "mice." After one too many disruptions, he confiscates the purse until the day's end.
This story is about a little girl (a mouse) named Lilly, who LOVES school and LOVES her teacher.
Lilly is ecstatic to show off her new gear at school.
Her teacher gives her several warnings before he finally confiscates Lilly's purse, glasses, and quarters.
He tells her that she can have them back at the end of the day.
Lilly goes through several severe and negative emotions before she realizes she's been acting silly.
I love how this story shows children that it's okay to experience emotions- we all do.
This is a blast from the past, and a childhood favorite.
My first- and second-grade teacher absolutely LOVED this book, and it certainly rubbed off on me.
I love Henkes' drawings, I love the narrative, I love the hecking nostalgia.
In fact, I once too had a purple plastic purse thanks to this book.
It's such a classic, and it deserves to be one.
It's just so adorable and has one of the best emotional arcs I've seen in a book that takes place largely at school.
I can't wait to pass this one along to the next generation of readers!Review cross-listed here!
Mommy : 5 stars : cute book Maxwell: 5 stars: I think this story is a moral. Don’t treat your teacher badly. Leila: 5 stars: I loved it. (What part did u like the most?) that Lilly was sad. (Why?) bc I like sad faces...
This book is contemporary fiction. It is about a mouse who is in elementary school but the reader can relate to the emotions she goes through. These include getting new toys and showing them to the class, or even having a teacher crush. This book made me laugh because I remember when I was in elementary school and felt similar things.
This book is about Lilly who lives school.
This book was simple for students to read on their own or listen to the teacher read.
2nd graders could read this book independently if they would like to.I could use this book in the class to teach children how they can bring things to play with and show people but it has to be the right time for them.
I could also use it to teach children that sometimes adults will not allow them to do things but that is okay because they are just looking out for them.
After a weekend of shopping, Lilly came to class wanting to show off her new things (including her purple plastic purse) while Mr. Slinger was teaching.
When she got home and read it, she drew a nicer picture, apologized the next day, and go to show her new things to the class during Showing Time.
I would recommend this book because it tells of a situation that many kids can relate to, but I wish it emphasized that drawing a mean picture of the teacher and putting it on his desk is rude and absolutely unacceptable.
