https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34473.In_Praise_of_Shadows
Το εγκώμιο της σκιάς είναι ένα μικρό,περιεκτικό και ουσιώδες βιβλίο που θα μπορούσε να χαρακτηριστεί και ως εγχειρίδιο αισθητικής στα παραδοσιακά ιδεώδη της Ανατολής.
Μια καλογραμμένη έκθεση πάνω σε ανατολίτικο μετάξι με σκούρες αποχρώσεις ιδεών και όνειρα μέσα σε ομίχλες σκιών,σκοτάδι,ασάφεια,παρωχημένη αισθητική αντίληψη και γοητεία νηφαλιότητας.
Το εγκώμιο της σκιάς δεν είναι σε καμία περίπτωση μία αντιπαράθεση ανάμεσα στην παράδοση και την αναπότρεπτη εξέλιξη του πολιτισμού.
Αντιθέτως δημιουργεί μια συναισθηματική γαλήνη μέσα απο την αποδοχή με λογική και στωικότητα.Πολύ σεμνά και τρυφερά αναπολεί,νοσταλγεί και διαπιστώνει τη θλιβερή απώλεια της μαγείας της σκιάς,της νηφαλιότητας και της γαλήνης που χάνονται μπροστά σε ότι κραυγαλέα γυαλίζει και επιδεικνύεται.
The preference for a pensive luster to a shallow brilliance.My quiet, soothingly minimalistic room seems of no consequence when juxtaposed with the unearthly beauty that Jun'ichirō Tanizaki described in this splendid essay on aesthetics.A shōji.
So much space beholding the magnificence of a dim light on a particular spot, barely illuminating the serene twilight that those walls are made of.Could this book be applied to people?
The particular beauty of a candle emanating a delicate brilliance that timidly embellish a silent room.
Tanizaki regrets.The sound of the rain playing gently with the dusky light of a candle.

“We find beauty not in the thing itself but in the patterns of shadows, the light and the darkness, that one thing against another creates.” **  Kage-e illustrations - Japanese shadow art from the Edo period (woodblock print)Have you ever stomped on your shadow, trying to hold its torso with your feet? The subtle chase between you and the devious shadow; toughening with every stomp on the dried grey asphalt while queries of whether you have lost your marbles looming in the humid air. Deer pranc
Through the words of Soseki, similar quandary when expressed by Tanizaki in his artistic essay brought a flurry of nostalgic shards piercing my psyche comprehending my grandfather’s quirks as the establishment of an Indian toilet was the only piece of Indian aesthetic remaining in the Western architectural jungle that adorned the house making it the sole rescue to his “old" world from the chaos of modernization.
This adherence was certainly not possible to those residing and working in the cities.Tanizaki elaborates an interesting debating subject dissecting the fundamentals of Japanese theater, distinguishing the reputable model and modus operandi of Noh and Kabuki revolving around the world of shadows depicting the mysterious aura that surrounds the theatrical performances.
In this delightful essay Junichiro Tanizaki looks at Japanese aesthetics, and selects praise for all things delicate and nuanced, everything softened by shadows, and the patina of age, anything understated and simply natural, for instance the patterns of grain in old wood, the sound of rain falling from leaves, or washing over the footing of a stone lantern in a garden, and refreshing the moss that grows around it, and by doing so he suggests an attitude of appreciation and mindfulness, especially a mindfulness of beauty, a natural beauty that is all around us, that one tends to forget or take for granted.Tanizaki appreciates the world and its ordinary pleasures, and offers a sharp contrast to the functional, plastic, disposable aesthetic of modern western culture.
A fascinating insight into another culture, that illuminates the mind into thinking about things from a completely different angle.
Many Japanese people take pains to hide electrical wires because they don’t want to spoil the beauty of the traditional decor.
we would have gone only in a direction that suited us” (8-9).In Praise of Shadows is his tribute to the Japanese aesthetic, to the beauty of darkness, to moonlight rather than sunshine, shadow rather than glare, softness rather than neon.
For me, the Japanese aesthetic restores the balance.In Praise of Shadows is a book about beauty, but there is also a sadness in Tanizaki’s praise of shadows.
must always grow from the realities of life.In Praise of Shadows, written by the well known Japanese novelist Tanizaki Jun'ichirō (1886-1965) in 1933, is a particularly charming and discursive rumination on the differences between Japanese (indeed, East Asian) and occidental aesthetics (among other matters).
And from these delicate differences in the hue of the walls, the shadows in each room take on a tinge peculiarly their own.Along with all the elements mentioned above, the free floating form of zuihitsu permits Tanizaki to comment on the complaints of the elderly, street lights, even throw in a recipe for a special kind of sushi.
Ο Τανιζάκι εκθέτει την άποψη του για την φύση της ομορφιάς, για την αρχιτεκτονική, την διακόσμηση, τα σκεύη καθημερινής χρήσης, το θέατρο (ήξερα μονο το θέατρο Καμπούκι αλλα έμαθα και για το θέατρο Νο που διατηρεί την ατμόσφαιρα και τα μέσα παλαιότερων εποχών εστιάζοντας στην ααποτύπωση της πραγματικότητας χωρίς φτιασίδια).‘’ Η ομορφιά δεν βρίσκεται μέσα στο ίδιο το πράγμα, αλλα γεννιέται από το φώς και το σκοτάδι, μες στις αποχρώσεις της σκιάς των πραγμάτων στην σχέση τους το ένα με το άλλο’’Με εντυπωσίασε το πως το σκοτάδι και οι σκιές μπορούν να αναδείξουν το σύνολο αλλα και το κάθε σημείο ξεχωριστά μέσα σε μια ιαπωνική κατοικία .
Σε έναν κόσμο που έχει ανάγει τη Δύση και τις συνήθειές της σε πρότυπο και αναζητεί την πολυτέλεια και την ομορφιά στα φανταχτερά αντικείμενα και στις γυαλάδες τους, που προσπαθεί να εξαλείψει κάθε σκιά και να αποφύγει με κάθε τρόπο το σκοτάδι, ο Τανιζάκι φανερώνει τη μαγεία των σκιών.
Ο Ιάπωνας συγγραφέας πραγματεύεται τις αμέτρητες ποιότητες που μπορεί να προκαλέσει το παιχνίδι του ελάχιστου φωτός μέσα σε έναν σκοτεινό χώρο και τις αισθήσεις που μπορεί να αφυπνίσει, ενώ ταυτόχρονα νοσταλγεί εικόνες της καθημερινής ζωής στην Ιαπωνία που έχουν χαραχτεί στη μνήμη του με τη μορφή υφών, εντυπώσεων και βιωμάτων...
πάντα με φόντο τις σκιές και την ομορφιά τους.
In Praise of Shadows is an essay on beauty. It is less of a meditation but more of an unfocused sequence of thoughts. Tanizaki talks about wooden furniture, subdued lighting, lacquer-work, Noh plays, and the pleasure of taking good shits.Tanizaki prefers obscure and hidden things to those directly revealed. He likes rural things, shadowy things, dirty things. He's not exactly a crusty reactionary here, but someone who wants to return something lost, obscure and concealed. Tanizaki, a product of his time, does dip into appalling racism. Still, there are many beautiful things here.
بسیار جذاب! پر از ایدههای معماری و زیباییشناختی بر اساس فرهنگ ژاپن!خوندنش بسیار لذتبخش بود.
بسیار جذاب! پر از ایده‌های معماری و زیبایی‌شناختی بر اساس فرهنگ ژاپن!خوندنش بسیار لذت‌بخش بود.
The quality that we call beauty must always grow from the realities of life, and our ancestors, forced to live in dark rooms, presently came to discover beauty in shadows, ultimately to guide shadows towards beauty's ends(If you don't have time to read the whole of my review, go ahead and skip the next two paragraphs)There is a practice essay prompt in the US College Board's guide to the SAT book that goes something like "Do changes that make our lives easier always make them better?".
Sort of a Japanese Grandpa Simpson. Kids these days, no respect. Art these days, total crap. Food these days, inedible. It's all go go go. It's all electric lights and gramophones. What happened to sitting in the dark, poking yourself in the eye with a stick? Kids are too good for that now. Things were so much better before refrigeration and antibiotics. People used to have time for things, people used to care, people used to have pride. Bla bla bla. Said every generation ever. Bonus star for brevity.
Tanizaki's text flows from one topic to another almost dreamlike and ranges over architecture, jade, food, skin tone, and toilets.Every time I am shown to an old, dimly lit, and, I would add, impeccably clean toilet in a Nara or Kyoto temple, I am impressed with the singular virtues of Japanese architecture.
The parlor may have its charms, but the Japanese toilet truly is a place of spiritual repose.
And surely there could be no better place to savor this pleasure than a Japanese toilet where, surrounded by tranquil walls and finely grained wood, one looks out upon blue skies and green leaves.
من حسناتِ الكتبِ وما أكثرَ حسناتُها أنها تسحبُ بعضَها بعضًا وكلُّ واحدةٍ تدلُّ على الأخرى وتقودُ إليها، عرفتُ هذا الكتابَ بل وتعرفتُ على الروائي الياباني الفذ تانيزاكي من كتابِ الديب "عصيرُ الكتبِ" وتعمدتُ أن أتجاوزَ مقالتَه ومراجعتَه حولَ مديحِ ظل تانيزاكي كي لا يفسدَ عليَّ متعةَ اكتشافِ الكتابِ.
للظل قدسيتُه ومكانتُه، بل وللذوقِ الياباني تفردُه، العمرانُ بكل تفصيلاتِه الدقيقةِ إضاءاته وخفوتها، كذلك لونُ البشرة وسحنتُها، المسرح ...
يبحث عن الأصالةِ اليابانيةِ في مختلفِ مفرداتِ الفردِ حتى لا يختفيَ جوهرُ تاريخِه وثقافتِه ويذوبَ فيما هو آتٍ من الغرب ويفقدَ هويتَه.
هو حلمٌ لكنها تجربةٌ قابلةٌ للتمثيلِ تجربةٌ ثريةٌ مر بها الكاتبُ وسجل بجميلِ يراعِه خلاصتَها هنا
Mas o que raio foi isto?Eu a 10 páginas de ter iniciado o livro só pensava "não!
Este livro tem de ser mais que isto.
O autor dissertou mesmo sobre retretes e não casas de banho ou wc.Cortou-me o coração despachar um livro com uma capa tão bela.Mas mal podia esperar para vê-lo pelas costas.Graças a Deus que consegui despachá-lo.E os próximos leitores incautos que peguem neste livro com menos entusiasmo que eu.
Pode ser que o embate não seja tão grande.Ah!
Não queria mesmo acreditar que o livro era assim.
بل إن الكثيرين من عشاق وخبراء الأدب الياباني يختارون روايته "الأخوات ماكيوكا" كأفضل رواية يابانية في القرن العشرين.أما الكتاب الذي بين ايدينا والمعنون بـ"مديح الظل" فهو عبارة عن مقال مطول (48 صفحة) كتبه تانيزاكي عن موضوع أثار اهتمامه لفترة طويلة وهو: الفارق بين مفهوم الجمال عند اليابانيين خصوصاً والشرقيين بشكل عام والجمال عند الغربيين، وسيثير هذا المقال الجدل والاهتمام لفترة طويلة داخل اليابان وخارجها، بل إن هذا مفكراً مرموقاً مثل إدوارد سعيد سيعتبر هذا المقال مثالاً متميزاً على حدة الوعي المتنامي بين أبناء الثقافات الغير الأوروبية بالتمايز بينهم وبين والثقافة الغربية، في مرحلة ما بعد الاستعمار.ولكن علينا أن ننتبه، هذا ليس مقالا سياسياً.
Επίσης ασχολείται ακόμα και με πιο απλά πράγματα και αναδεικνύει την ομορφιά και την απλότητα που μπορεί να έχουν τα έπιπλα από λάκα, οι παραδοσιακές τουαλέτες, τα παλιά οικιακά αντικείμενα, η κλασική αρχιτεκτονική, και πάει λέγοντας.Το βιβλίο εκδόθηκε στην Ιαπωνία το 1933 και τότε ο Τανιζάκι έβλεπε όλες τις αλλαγές που γινόντουσαν τριγύρω του, πόσο άρχισε η Ιαπωνία να θέλει να μοιάσει όλο και περισσότερο στην Δύση και να ξεφύγει από πολλές παραδοσιακές αξίες.
It's been a year or so since I read it--but I still recall his image of enamelwork which is garish and awful in broad daylight, but has incredible beauty and charm in low light--which is not a defect, as we would see in Western culture, but simply that it's designed to be seen in that mysterious light of the traditional Japanese structure.
theaters and nightclubs, romantic bedrooms, which yes, are horrors in daylight--but that makes us think further about the nature of pleasure and certainly, of love, in a less pejorative standpoint to the idea of 'illusion'--we Westerners live in horror of it...
Just a note--the small size of this book makes a charming gift.
A backward, reactionary, nationalistic prose piece disguised as an essay on aesthetics, which engages in strange speculation and musing that is not at all well supported. But it gets better towards the end when its cantankerousness and hyperbole get amusing, and it does ultimately manage to express a mournful nostalgia for a dying aesthetic, even if that aesthetic is more of a personal aesthetic than the author admits, rather than being an expression of national character.P.S.The aesthetic can be summarized thus: "Turn the lights down, it's too bright in here, especially for people with yellow skin."
If Tanizaki had written this book from a Westerner's perspective, the essay would be regarded as retrograde and pessimistically nostalgic. To be sure, only a highly-evolved culture is capable of a reciprocal relationship between production and appreciation. A wholesale dismissal of progress, however, is no way to get there. Tanizaki's rejectionist attitude is a perfect one to adopt if you're interested in sabotaging your potentially sensitive, agreeable, harmonic future.
After reading about the concept of Wabi-Sabi in Leonard Koren`s book Wabi-Sabi: for Artists, Designers, Poets & Philosophers it was only natural to continue with this essay. Again this was very enriching, but this one was a lot more poetic and captivating. The descriptions are vivid and are beautifully written, which is not simple when writing about Japanese aesthetics (though the essence of this concept is actually the beauty that is in the simple and fleeting things).
After reading about the concept of Wabi-Sabi in Leonard Koren`s book Wabi-Sabi: for Artists, Designers, Poets & Philosophers it was only natural to continue with this essay. Again this was very enriching, but this one was a lot more poetic and captivating. The descriptions are vivid and are beautifully written, which is not simple when writing about Japanese aesthetics (though the essence of this concept is actually the beauty that is in the simple and fleeting things).
إذا انتج كل واحد منهم ما يمثل ثقافته وتاريخه الخاص، هل سيصبح النتاج-والذي ستستفيد منه البشرية جمعاء -يحمل ثراءً في الشكل والطريقة بحيث نجد في الأخير بأن هناك تنوع حضاري في الصناعات والأشياء، وكل نوع من هذه الأنواع يحمل في داخله خصوصية ثقافية، أم أن الرؤية الواحدة هي التي من ستتغلب وتزيح كل ما يصدر عن الآخرين؟ مكبر الصوت لا يناسب الياباني حسب تانيزاكي إذ هو غير مناسب مع طريقة الإلقاء اليابانية التي تعطي حضوراً مميزاً للوقفات والانطلاقة.
لا يحتاج الأمر إلا لمعرفة نوع من التناسق الذي ممكن أن يحدث حين يخترق شعاع الشمس المنزل، وحين يحدث الانعكاس مخلفاً الظل، يحدث نوع من العمران داخل المنازل قوامه هذا الانعكاس.جمال الظل ليس إلا سمو بأشياء الحياة الواقعية.
Una reliquia.
En este libro Tanizaki nos lleva por los caminos de las sombras.
¿Qué pasó con Japón cuando se iluminó tanto como Occidente?
Un recorrido minucioso e interesante sobre la transformación de la cultura nipona a partir de la introducción (muchas veces exagerada) de la luz eléctrica y otros avances tecnológicos.
Lo que hace mágico al texto es su prosa.
Poética y sencilla, parece desplegarse como si las palabras formaran parte del propio aliento del autor.Es un libro instructivo, sobre cómo se hacían las cosas antes y cómo se hacen ahora en Japón y cuanta magia se pierde en favor de la tecnología.
Quanto a mim, gostaria de tentar fazer reviver, pelo menos no domínio da literatura, esse universo de sombra que estamos prestes a dissipar. Gostaria de alargar o beiral desse edifício que tem o nome de «literatura», escurecer-lhe as paredes, mergulhar na sombra o que está demasiado visível e despojar-lhe o interior de qualquer ornamento supérfluo.
کتاب نگاهی بدیع و عمیق به سایه ها و بازیشان با نور در زیبایی شناسی ژاپنی و در کل میتوان گفت زیبایی شناسی شرقی دارد. مقاله ی کم حجمی ست و پیشنهاد میکنم مطالعه ش کنید.
A treatise on Japanese aesthetics, by turns playful and profound, facetious and funereal, brimming with beauty, 'In Praise of Shadows' is the jewel in Tanizaki's oeuvre, a kind of paean to Japanese concepts of beauty, of darkness, shadows and reflection, of contemplation and calm, of the dazzling reflections of gold in a darkened room, whose low ceilings accentuated the shades of shadow, from sable to grey, which imbued Japanese houses with an elegance which was lacking in light-obsessed Western abodes.
Hablar de detalles nunca es sencillo. No cualquier escritor puede activar sus sentidos para con ellos escribir y atrapar a los lectores en un tema tan minucioso como la arquitectura japonesa y la piel humana. El Elogio de las sombras comienza en la construcción de una casa según la cultura oriental y continúa describiendo todo lo que la conforma para luego hablar de los colores, alimentos, las sombras y lo hermoso que se vuelven al comprenderlas y sentirlas.Es impactante e increíble lo sumamente
El Elogio de las sombras comienza en la construcción de una casa según la cultura oriental y continúa describiendo todo lo que la conforma para luego hablar de los colores, alimentos, las sombras y lo hermoso que se vuelven al comprenderlas y sentirlas.​Es impactante e increíble lo sumamente observador que Junichiro Tanizaki se vuelve al mirar todo aquello que menciona en su ensayo: “La forma de un instrumento aparentemente insignificante puede tener repercusiones infinitas” Además aborda temas cotidianos dentro de la vida japonés y lo importante que es seguir costumbres y cuidar detalles para que todo quede a la perfección y no se decaiga el trabajo construido.Un libro para los amantes de la arquitectura, la cultura oriental y sobre todos para aquellos que quieren ir más allá de un concepto minimalista.
Japon Edebiyatı'nın İngilizce çevirilerini çok beğenmesem de Vintage iki Japonca profesörüne bu kitabı çevirterek çok iyi bir karar vermiş. Açıkçası okul kütüphanesine bu kitabı istetirken aslında Japon kültürü üzerine uzun bir makale olduğunun farkında değildim. Kitap beni şaşırttı bu yüzden. Adından da anlaşılacağı üzre, kitap gölgelere ve karanlığa bir övgü adeta. Tanizaki dönemi içerisinde genişleyen batı hayranlığını eleştirmiş ve sadeliği ve gölgeleri yücelten Japon kültürünün adeta yok oluşundan dem vurmuş. Kitabın sayfalarında yazarın kendi kültürüne olan zarif hayranlığını görmemek elde değil. Kütüphanenizdeki koltukta küçük, tatlı bir okuma yapmak isterseniz bu kitap ilaç gibi gelecektir.
3.5/5 Indeed the thin, impalpable, faltering light, picked up as though little rivers were running through the room, collecting little pools here and there, lacquers a pattern on the surface of the night itself. Unless I'm hellbent on some epic project à la Proust or Gibbons, I rarely swing around to the same author twice in one year. Technically I started Naomi in December of 2016, but the majority of mulling it over happened firmly in '17, so the fact that I was able to bounce back so quickly
Much as it is with Mishima (less, actually, what with Tanizaki's increased heteronormativity), I don't know what it is about this long dead Japanese man's writing that keeps me coming back, but I'm not one to criticize providence; leastwise, not much.Aesthetic: adjective - concerned with beauty or the appreciation of beauty; noun- a set of principles underlying and guiding the work of a particular artist or artistic movement.
Leaving aside the afterword's obsession with Tanizaki's "lack of structure" (harping yet again on Proust, has no one in the business of translating Japanese philosophical works read him?!), I'd recommend this, on the grounds that the reader acknowledge the pandering to white supremacy lurking within a text resplendent with shadows.
Tôi ko dám tưởng tượng cái chỗ ngồi máy bay sẽ như thế nào nếu như người Việt thống trị kỹ nghệ hàng không.Tự nguyện nhiệt thành như Nhật hay bị ép buộc chẳng đặng đừng như phần còn lại, Đông phương đã đi theo Tây phương.
Ngoài những lợi ích hiển nhiên, chúng ta cũng mất rất nhiều khi từ bỏ giá trị của mình để áp dụng những giá trị được thiết lập bởi phương tây, cho người tây.
Những cái đẹp mà chỉ bóng tối với năng lực khơi gợi, trù ếm và thoát tục siêu việt mới đẩy tới được những vùng giá trị mà phương tây chưa từng khai phá.
ترجمه خوب و دقیق ولی بیدقتی ناشر...دقیقا نمیدونم وظیفه ناشر چیه اگه حتا یک بار متن رو نخونه! غلطهای املایی مکرر
ترجمه خوب و دقیق ولی بی‌دقتی ناشر...دقیقا نمی‌دونم وظیفه ناشر چیه اگه حتا یک بار متن رو نخونه! غلط‌های املایی مکرر
A startling little book that taught me a lot about Japanese aesthetics. A real eye-opener. It's all so sensible and natural and yet it is so far removed from our Western preoccupation with clarity and light! I also enjoyed the resonances with Peter Zumthor's Atmospheres which I read on the same day. I've put it on the rereading shelf.
الانسان كلما تأمل أمراً كان امتداد له ولماضيهكلما احبه واقترب منه وانعكس جماله فيهيتتبع اصالته وتنبع اصوله فيهولطالما تساءلنا عن سر انجذابنا وحنيننا للماضيرغم ان ذاك الماضي لا يخلو من الصعاب والمشاكلاحفظ جملة احدهم يطيل التأمل والوقوف بأماكن السديم والضبابكلما راودني هذا السؤال اذا قال"هو الحنين ابدا لحينٍ لم نحنه و كون لم نكنه"ذلك المتسرمد فينا سيمياء اسلاف و امتداد اخلاف .منهم من احب الضوء وانبهر به وبالشموع والاضاءةومنهم من احب الظلال والظلام وانعكاسه فيهوكل حسب ماضيه وبيئته ومجتمعه وتأملاته
الانسان كلما تأمل أمراً كان امتداد له ولماضيهكلما احبه واقترب منه وانعكس جماله فيهيتتبع اصالته وتنبع
-	El refinamiento es frío.-	Del mismo modo que sería totalmente inadecuado que la joven más bella del mundo, aunque su piel fuera de nácar, exhibiera en público sus nalgas y muslos, sería también una total falta de educación iluminar ese lugar de forma tan escandalosa.-	No tengo nada contra la adopción de las comodidades que ofrece la civilización en materia de iluminación, calefacción o tazas de retrete, pero a pesar de ello, me he preguntado por qué, siendo las cosas como son, no damos algo más de importancia a nuestras costumbres y a nuestros gustos y si sería realmente imposible adaptarnos más a ellos.-	Si Oriente y Occidente hubieran elaborado cada uno por si lado, e independientemente, civilizaciones científicas bien diferenciadas, ¿cuáles serían las formas de nuestra sociedad y hasta qué punto serían diferentes de lo que son?-	Supongamos que el inventor de la estilográfica hubiera sido un japonés o un chino de otra época.
He contrasts what he views as a Western fascination with light and clarity, newness and brightness, openness and change, with a Japanese focus on subtlety, nuance, mystery, darkness, ancientness, and stillness.
Contrasting issues as different as toilet plumbing, domestic architecture, cosmetics, theater and drama, lacquer ware and gold ware, and interior illumination, he builds an argument for attentiveness, quietness, and the valuing of tradition and continuity even in the face of radical impermanence.
Nonetheless the essay is of substantial interest and leads the reader to deeper knowledge of elements of Japanese esthetics and to greater insights into a more informed critique of elements of our own culture.
Ένα κομψοτεχνημα απαράμιλλης αξίας! Δεν είναι μονο για bookworm & booklovers ειναι για αρχιτεκτονες, μηχανικους, διακοσμητες, σχεδιαστες μοδας, σεφ, ανθοπωλες, κηπουρους, καθαριστριες, ηθοποιους, φωτογραφους, εστιατορες, ιστορικους, κοινωνικους ανθρωπολογους, μεταφραστες, εκδοτες, σκηνοθετες..ΥΓ ΨΑΞΕ ΝΑ ΤΟ ΑΠΟΚΤΗΣΕΙΣ!
view of Japanese aesthetics from 1933.
yes old, yesterday’s world, from a very traditional author, this muses on an essential difference between ‘western’ and ‘oriental’ art.
not as based on blood or place but environment and how this has influenced art and architecture and this is how japanese like shadows, suggestions, muted darkness, history, in everything touched by time.
this is when westernization was going concern and there were many living examples of older aesthetics.
i have always had an affection for ‘japanese’ arts from art to architecture to film to prose to philosophy, old or new or contemporary...
round 2ชอบการพรรณนามาก เหนภาพทุกกระเบียด โดยเฉพาะตอนทีเอยถึงเรืองหองสุขาแบบโซเซกินิยม ตังอยูนอกตัวบาน ในหวงเวลาทีผูใชจะไดมองฟา ผอนกายสงบใจกับบรรยากาศเยนยำคำมืด แสงจันทรวับแวม เสียงนำหลนลงโคมศิลา ทางเดินมีหินปูลาด พืชพันธุเขียวชะอุมชืนขึนแทรกตามรอยรองบนพืนไหนจะตอนเทียบเคียงละครโนกับคาบุกิ ตอนทีเปรยวาแสงเทียนแสนเศราวูบไหว เหมือนสายธารกระหวัดลัดเลียวไปในเวิงวางของหอง กอนจะทิงตัวเปนแองนำสลดสลัวตรงนันนิด ตรงนีหนอย ... บะ! ในสวนของการใชวาทศิลปของผูแปลนัน ทังทีถูกจำกัดการใชคำทีมีความหมายอยูในวงแคบๆ แตเ
round 2ชอบการพรรณนามาก เห็นภาพทุกกระเบียด โดยเฉพาะตอนที่เอ่ยถึงเรื่องห้องสุขาแบบโซเซกินิยม ตั้งอยู่นอกตัวบ้าน ในห้วงเวลาที่ผู้ใช้จะได้มองฟ้า ผ่อนกายสงบใจกับบรรยากาศเย็นย่ำค่ำมืด แสงจันทร์วับแวม เสียงน้ำหล่นลงโคมศิลา ทางเดินมีหินปูลาด พืชพันธ์ุเขียวชะอุ่มชื้นขึ้นแทรกตามรอยร่องบนพื้นไหนจะตอนเทียบเคียงละครโนกับคาบุกิ ตอนที่เปรยว่าแสงเทียนแสนเศร้าวูบไหว เหมือนสายธารกระหวัดลัดเลี้ยวไปในเวิ้งว้างของห้อง ก่อนจะทิ้งตัวเป็นแอ่งน้ำสลดสลัวตรงนั้นนิด ตรงนี้หน่อย ... บ๊ะ! ในส่วนของการใช้วาทศิลป์ของผู้แปลนั้น ทั้งที่ถูกจำกัดการใช้คำที่มีความหมายอยู่ในวงแคบๆ แต่เรายังไม่ค่อยรู้สึกถึงความซ้ำของคำเท่าไร (ยกเว้นพวก ริบหรี่, แบบบาง) นี่ถือเป็นผลงานจากการที่ผู้แปลและผู้เขียนต่างเข้าถึงกันได้อย่างดี เราคนอ่านก็ได้แต่พยักหน้าจินตนาการตาม..ทั้งนี้เนื่องจากตัวงานถ่ายทอดความเป็นชาตินิยมสูงมาก ถ้าจะมีคนไม่ชอบก็น่าจะตรงนี้ ส่วนตัวเราสนใจด้านการโน้มน้าวโดยอาศัยความสามารถทางตัวอักษรมากกว่า ทัศนะคติคนเขียนจะไปทางขาว ดำ หรือสลัวตามสิ่งรอบข้างอย่างไร ถ้าไม่เกินรับไหวก็ไม่น่าจะมีปัญหาปล. ภาพประกอบในเล่มเศร้าสร้อยเหลือเกิน เราไล่เปิดแบบหลังไปหน้า Moonlit Sea / Amagasaki พอถึง Rain at Omiya กับ Moon at Umagome อยู่ข้างกันแล้วแว่บคิดถึงอะไรบางอย่างซึ่งก็ไม่รู้อะไร น้ำตาเอ่อ แปลกใจเหมือนกันเป็นไปได้ไหมว่ามันคือ สุนทรียะจากเงาสลัว ?- - - - -first view 24-25 Oct 2015ญี่ปุ่นที่แท้จริงซ่อนอยู่ในแสงสลัว ขบวนบ้านญี่ปุ่นในคิตะยาม่าของเกียวโตจะจืดชืดลงสักเพียงใด หากขาดแสงไฟสีส้มที่ลอดออกมาจากบานเลื่อนฟุสุมะอ่านเล่มนี้จบแล้วอยากทุบกระปุกบินไปญี่ปุ่น เดินเล่นในฮานามาจิ ดูโน จิบชา และนอนบนฟุตงฟังเสียงจิ้งหรีดในคืนฝนตก
From the designs of temples and how the architecture of the building(s) corroborates with the shadows that add that touching effect to the beauty of it to everyday lighting of streets or artificial lighting of traditional Japanese theaters.
Even here in Australia I feel that way, but in Japan these days you are immersed in it, and I'm not just talking about the tourist attractions with flashing lights everywhere.Also other interesting tid-bits like how the Orients revere whiteness of people, but not for any infatuations with Caucasians and the problems of integrating Japanese design with modern technology in architecture.Check it out, surely makes for an excellent read on a quiet afternoon.
وقتی این کتاب رو خوندم فهمیدم چقدر از تعریف زیبایی واقعی فاصله گرفتیم. در واقع بیشتر چیزهایی که بهشون میگیم زیبا تلقینی از زیبایی هستند . شروع کردیم به ستایش شبحی از زیبایی. شیئ هایی که مشخص شدند تا زیبا باشند نه این که خودشون زیبا باشند. جزییات رو فراموش کردیم و یادمون رفته که زیبایی مجموعهای از جزیئات و جزیئات و جزیئاته. باید همچین کتابایی بخونیم که بفهمیم چرا چوب زیباست چرا تاریکی زیباست چرا نور زیباست چرا سادگی زیباست یه جایی از کتاب تانیزاکی میپرسه اگر شرق شیمی و فیزیک مختص با مذهب و دولت و
وقتی این کتاب رو خوندم فهمیدم چقدر از تعریف زیبایی واقعی فاصله گرفتیم.
باید همچین کتابایی بخونیم که بفهمیم چرا چوب زیباست چرا تاریکی زیباست چرا نور زیباست چرا سادگی زیباست یه جایی از کتاب تانیزاکی میپرسه اگر شرق شیمی و فیزیک مختص با مذهب و دولت و زبان و پیشینه‌ی خودش رو گسترش میداد چی میشد؟چقدر از وسایلی که الان اختراع میشه مناسب با سنت و فرهنگ ماست؟ چه تعداد از این وسایل ظرافتِ زیبایی های اطراف ما رو خراب کردن؟البته مخاطب این کتاب بیشتر ژاپنی ها و کشورهای آسیای شرقیه و مثال هایی که میزنه هم برای اون ها خیلی قابل درک تر و ملموس تره .
اما بخش های زیادی از کتاب باعث میشه رو تعریف‌مون از زیبایی تجدید نظر کنیم
The Japanese aesthetics of the bygone days -- the book was originally published in 1933.
(Don't expect to see this by visiting Japan now.) Quite unique.
Tanizaki was not just any Japanese writer.
He was well versed with the Japanese classics.
His modern Japanese translation of The Tale of Genji was a standard for a long time, and I think it still is one of the best.
NOT coincidentally, Edward Seidensticker, who translated Genji to English, translated many of Tanizaki's works, including this.
I'd recommend this to those who are super serious about Japanese literature.
"Το εγκώμιον της σκιάς, γράφτηκε το 1933, όταν δηλαδή ο Τανιζάκι είχε πλέον ολοκληρώσει τη στροφή του προς την αισθητική και τις παραδοσιακές αξίες του ιαπωνικού πολιτισμού, και είναι ακριβώς ένα δοκίμιο πάνω σ' αυτήν την αισθητική και στην άβυσσο που τη χωρίζει απ' αυτήν της Δύσης"
Reading it for the second time around after 2.5 years, I can securely say that I found it much more interesting and indulging than the first time I read it.
Esse pequeno tratado de Tanizaki soa mais como um exercício de estilo do que qualquer outra coisa, a tradutora soube concatenar os ideogramas de tal forma que podemos vislumbrar a beleza que perdermos ao não saber a linguagem japonesa.
