https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/437885.Frosty_the_Snowman
Ova knjiga govori da uvijek mo쬰 biti bolje i iskoristiti priliku za igru. Evo treba ti nekoliko sati da napravi코 iz ma코te 쬴vog snijegovi캖a. A na kraju je ipak ispalo i vi코e zabave i igre u tome. Ono 코to sam ja nau캜ila iz te knjige da se trebamo truditi a ne odustati. Jedan plijesak za ovu hrabru knjigu i spisateljicu koja se jako trudila. 游녨游녧游녪游녪游녪
Just then a hat rolls by and the kids grab it and put it on the snowman and at that second he comes alive and goes on many different adventures with the children.
Frosty is the snowman that the children create and then comes alive with a magical hat.
Frosty goes on many different adventures with the kids and then without any warning he vanishes.
The author shows that imagination is important because without it the snowman would have never been possible and the kids would have missed out on all the fun and adventures.
This book is a great snow holiday book. It also teaches children to work together and even if others put you down to get back up. It's a story of love, lasting friendships, and a need to fit in. I would read this to my class because I think it not only has a cozy feel to it but a few lessons to teach in it as well.
One of those things you read as a kid in the doctor or dentist's office while you wait your turn to be either shot or have your teeth uncomfortably dried and gums jabbed.It also really wasn't that good.I even disliked the illustrations at the time but then, some of my dislike could have been the environment.
I love this book!
Beloved snowman comes to life.
A Classic!!
I have fond memories of watching "Frosty the Snowman" as a small child, but this book leaves me cold (ha!). The kids didn't love it either.
cute
This just an old Golden Book we inherited, but it's a classic!
Children of all ages will enjoy this book because it is a classic tale that we all grew up hearing. There are also many animated movies.
Didn't like the illustrations
Fun
After magically being brought to life he helps children laugh and play all winter. Soon the temperature begins to rise and the kids help him get away from Hinkle so he won't melt. This would be a great book for students during the winter or when they begin to play outside.
I loved this story as a kid, loved reading it to my children and now enjoying it in story time with my grandsons. It is a magical story that all kids love. I just had to share it this week with my grandson as our first story book of the Christmas season.
FrostyThe original Frosty the Snowman is a wonderful story about a snowman who comes to life with the aid of a magic hat. The children and Frosty go on an adventure that kids of all ages will enjoy.
FeistyIt was better than average. Hi i,m Zakkarie i,m 8years old it was the best! I'm 7 years old. The print is too small for kids to read.
Another favorite story. The kids loved it and I loved it. Highly recommend it!
Favorite My son's favorite book anytime of year. I'm glad it was available on kindle because we couldn't find it in the store.
It's begging to feel a lot like Christmas :)
FROSTY THE SNOWMAN WAS A JOLLY HAPPY SOULWITH A CORN COB PIPE AND A BUTTON NOSE AND TWO EYES MADE OF COAL......HAHAHA LOVED IT
Enjoyed this as a child.
I love Christmas!
I know I've mentioned it a hundred times on here, but it's true.
It's my favorite holiday ever!!
So it's really no surprise that frosty the snowman is one of my favorite Christmas books.
I love the children's books that have just that touch of magic.
It gives kids this sense of wonder that you tend to lose as you get older, which if you think about it is really sad.
I think as long as you can hold on to that you should.
This book makes me miss living in a place were snow would cover the ground.
All the frosty fun and snowy magic of the classic holiday story, Frosty the Snowman, comes alive in big, bold images.Everyone's favorite snowman with a magic hat, a button nose, and eyes made out of coal comes to life on Christmas every year. Based on the beloved 1969 television special, this Little Golden Book retells the whole magical story of "Frosty the Snowman".
Frosty the Snowman Little golden book. I don't really like books based off of tv shows or movies that have illustrations identical to the show, it's like watching the show all over again. A better choice would be to get a different version of Frosty the Snowman, even one of the older ones from Little Golden Book with different illustrations is a better option. Having to watch Frosty and then read this story which is almost word for word a copy of the television special is just silly.
A classic story based on the song "Frosty the Snowman" this book is perfect during Christmas time. A book for preschool-1st grade children love how the snowman literally comes to life. A fictional story that even was made into a movie and a tv show. I give this cute Christmas story a 5 out of 5 stars.
I would totally use this book in my classroom. This book tells the story of how frosty the snowman become a snowman and also comes alive. At the end of the story frosty makes this promises to the kids that he will return every year after that.
I read this while I was visiting a grade school library. I had volunteered to be a reader to a class and I chose this fun book. It is the whimsical tale of the famous animated snowman. The illustrations are taken from the Rankin-Bass TV special.
I think this is a good book for young children in the sense that it talks about a character like a snowman. The issue with reading this to a classroom in a public school is the Christmas aspect of it because it doesn't include other religious celebrations.
was a fun story to read. It had love and friends and happiness and a little evil. It taught me that when we work together we can accomplish a lot. When ppl are against us sometimes bad things can happen but we over come when we work together.
