https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119322.The_Golden_Compass
Before I go into the depths of character and plot, let me start by saying this book is up there with other fantasy hard hitters: by this I mean books like The Lord of the Rings and The Chronicles of Narnia: the books that define the genre.
In this the author has created an air of mystery as we explore the true meaning of the bond as we read further.
In this the author is a genius, he has wrote a book that can be both a children’s bed time read and an adult’s point of pondering.
(B+) 78% | GoodNotes: A solid story and well written, but very much a children’s tale with one child going on a quest to save other children.
2.5*I never read this as a kid and maybe I would have enjoyed it more if I had, but it was just okay for me!
Well, because it’s the best way I can think of to articulate my feelings about The Golden Compass.I don’t LOVE the Beatles, but I recognize their skill and talent and appreciate them for the impact they had on popular music.
But, I’m never going to suddenly say to myself, “Geez, I really need to hear a Beatles song RIGHT NOW” and rush off to listen to one.
It’s well done.Someone asked me, as I was finishing this, if I was going to check out the second book in the series, but I think I’ll Let It Be.
the golden compass trilogy seems like a natural progression in christian literature.
and instead of linda fiorentino who is kind of a mopey christ, we get a 10 year old girl.
10 year old girls are the best focal point for any story.
and therein lies the genius of pullman's work, that has all the christians in a snit; she's also the antichrist.why would he do that?because the bible does.
they've been following the beast for years without recognizing it.
the golden compass referred to in the book, is the bible we've all forgotten how to read.
Lyra was one of my favorite characters as a kid and is still just as fierce & wonderful as I remember.
Actually, I'm surprised by how well I remember the whole story.
Maybe it's because the characters and world are so strong, or maybe it's because the movie follows the book SO well.
I don't know if I adored this book as a kid because of the polar bears and snowy world or if that's actually what led to my love for those types of settings, but it's completely gorgeous.
I genuinely think this story started my obsession with Oxford, too.
“You cannot change what you are, only what you do.”     “So Lyra and her daemon turned away from the world they were born in, and looked toward the sun, and walked into the sky.”
I enjoyed the premise and theme of the book. Pullman created well thought out and memorable characters. It was a little too technical for me in regard to the depths of fantasy, i.e. I had to go back and look up the meaning of some of the made up words in the book to stay focused on what was actually happening. But great imagery. I'm not sure if I will read book 2 or 3 of the series yet... thoughts?
If you want to make cracks about being a trophy wife, go right ahead, but to insinuate that I would "skim" a book to have the minimum knowledge required to give the appearance of having read it so that I can give it a bad review b/c reasons, is an attack on my character and work ethic.
In fact, the whole reason I'm writing this, years after I read the book, is b/c I didn't want to be that person who essentially outlines their own (possibly contradictory) review on someone else's post.
Rating: 3.5 starsListened to this on audio, which was a lot of fun!
Later....A friend said to me today that if you read this book properly, it should make you a better person.
I think you have a sense as you read this book that Lyra's goodness has rubbed off on you, she's made you better in an entirely non-specific way.M. then said that she didn't think a book, to be special, necessarily had to have a moral impact, it could give you other terribly important things.
Impossible not to compare with Larsson’s books, and comes out so far ahead on all counts I don’t know if I’ll be able to read the last Girl-Tattoo book after all.This guy writes well, Larsson doesn’t.
No sé si este libro debe calificarse como infantil, si bien es cierto que la protagonista Lyra nos va dando una perspectiva bastante inocente de su mundo, los temas que se tratan en el libro no lo son tanto, el centro de la historia es, al parecer, el misterio que existe del porque están robándose a los niños de todas partes, pero por debajo de eso hay mucho mas, de una manera sutil, se nota que existe una lucha de estos dos grandes titanes, la religión y la ciencia, y ambos buscan poseer la verdad, mostrando toda la crueldad de la que pueden ser capaces.
Please join us if you can!-- Discussion on blog: February 28th-- Hashtag #tmgreadalong if you'd like to discuss as you read on Twitter.More details on the blog: http://www.themidnightgarden.net/2014...-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------My review:Wildly imaginative and thrilling, this complex and beautiful story follows brave, fierce Lyra Belacqua in her quest to save her childhood friend.
The book is filled with dazzling adventure and marvelous inventiveness, as well as many scenes that will fill readers with utter horror and pity.
The warrior bears have a spectacular battle scene towards the end that still shakes me to the core when I read it.
I'll admit that this one was a bit slow for me at parts (especially compared to the sequels) but what kept me reading was the fascination with the daemons.
I liken them to the patronuses (patronii?) from the Harry Potter series in that they are the animal totem of a character, and can change until someone is "set in their ways".
How many other people have held conversations about what their daemon or patronus animal is, and then changed it frequently?I'll also admit that I don't particularly care for Lyra.
I really liked this book!
But my very favorites were Daniel Craig as the zealot Lord Asriel and Eva Green as badass witch Serafina Pekkala.
Serafina Pekkala is one of my favorite witches in literature: she's grounded in her connection to the earth, she's beautiful, she doesn't have to hover over the cauldron all day to perform her magic, she's immortal (more or less), she can fly and she has awesome archery skills.
But I think that is in the second book.Speaking of which, I will say I did NOT like the second movie.
And not only do they have Serafina and Asriel dressed all wrong, they have them get together!!!
It IS a kid's book, in so many ways, with a strong girl main character, Lyra, 11, who is set on freeing her friend and other children from the north, with the help of Gyptions, an armored polar bear, witches, a Texan aeronaut balloonist, among others.
I think the Catholic Church, seeing Pullman as an atheist and his work as an exclusively anticlerical tract, helped to crush the continuation of the fine film series, which only has one third of the story, this book, produced, though that film was tame compared to the book.
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دوم آگوست سال 2008 میلادیعنوان: نیروی اهریمنی اش - کتاب اول - سپیده ی شمالی در دو جلد؛ نویسنده: فلیپ پولمن؛ مترجم: فرزاد فرید؛ تهران، کتاب پنجره، 1384 تا 1385، در پنج جلد؛ شابک دوره پنج جلدی: 9647822146؛ چاپ سوم 1387؛ شابک دوره: 9789647822145؛ چاپ چهارم 1388؛ موضوع: داستانهای کودکان و نوجوانان از نویسندگان انگلیسی - سده 20 معنوان ک‍ت‍اب‌ نخست از مجموعه ی : «نیروی اهریمنیش» شامل دو جلد ب‍خ‍ش‌ اول‌ و دوم: س‍پ‍ی‍ده‌ ی‌ ش‍م‍ال‍ی‌؛ عنوان (جلد سوم) ک‍ت‍اب‌ دوم‌: خ‍ن‍ج‍ر ظری‍ف‌؛ و عنوان (دو جلد چهارم و پنجم) کتاب سوم: دورب‍ی‍ن‌ ک‍ه‍رب‍ای‍ی‌ است.
When a film was made of this book, they did the book a real disservice.
Pullman does a great job realising this alternate world where everyone has a daemon- like the other half of your soul - and these creatures stay with you through your life.
This book does not really end but segues into the second book.This was a reread and I listened to it on audio.
They did a fantastic job, I have to say, with different actors for all the voices.Recommended.
fantastic.
pullman introduces readers to his sophisticated world view slowly, and this first novel in the trilogy has an ideal narrative focal point in the mean little liar who is the protagonist.
i have never seen lying in children portrayed so explicitly as a positive thing, and after this novel, i'm all for it!
the settings are wonderfully strange and surreal yet rooted in an eventually understandable reality, and the supporting characters are oblique and enigmatic without being tiresome.
neither the writing nor the main character herself ever stoop to easy, sloppy sentiments.
I really like that the Iorek Byronison, the bear, is always referred to by full name.
When I'm Bear King, I definitely want to be on a full-name-all-the-time basis.
Then I will battle challengers to mortal combat, tearing through armor, swiping off heads with my massive paws, slicing open chests and devouring hearts.
And as I gorge myself on bear blood, I will cry out "Bears!
Who is your King?" And my name will roar from a thousand bear throats.it's going to be awesome.(My name has got that same elegant mysterious beauty.
Like a sound you'd expect if you hit a fairy with a shoe.)9/14/07
A bit like in a computer game, our main character Lyra runs from one wise man to another in her quest to find some missing children.
The protagonist is, well, I don't know why anyone writing children's book would invent an "unimaginative" (quote), lying, sometimes even hateful character like Lyra.
I know it offended me by being a bad book sold with a lot of hype, but that's not Pullman's fault.
I was kind of surprised by how well I remembered the story/characters despite having not read it since I was 11 years old––apparently it's just that memorable!There's so much I love about The Golden Compass.
(Sorry I'm saying "love" so much, oops.) Lyra is awesome, and what I especially appreciate about her is that she's such a realistically flawed character.
I only have a couple of minor complaints about this book upon re-reading it: one is that, even though for the most part I love the writing, the dialogue seems a little wooden and/or melodramatic at times.
After all the talk about Pullman's supposed anti-Catholicism or anti-Christianity or atheism or whatever one wants to label it, I approached The Golden Compass (known originally as Northern Lights) with an open mind and found something other than what I'd been told to expect.
The notion that we should question everything, even if we are children -- or especially if we are children -- is one of the most important messages humankind can hear, and one of the hardest for us to learn or employ.
The Golden Compass, by Philip Pullman, picks up where the Harry Potter series leaves off.
As in Rowling's series, the hero of The Golden Compass--Lyra, a pre-teen girl in Oxford, England--is plucked from her mundane existence to become supremely important to the fate of the living world.
However, unlike the Potter series, The Golden Compass, immerses us immediately in political, religious, and cultural conflict as well.
The sophistication of the story will be lost over children's heads.Nonetheless, the action will sustain.For children, The Golden Compass is the story of Lyra Belacqua's adventure to the arctic to rescue her friend Roger, who has been kidnapped by adults who run experiments on children.
Time for Lyra to get a better, more interesting, best friend, which I assume happens in book 2.-The alethiometer is pretty damn hokey.
But if I had an alethiometer at my disposal, I'd be using it all the time, and there was no good reason why Lyra shouldn't have done that, too.-Lord Asriel's great "betrayal" was completely obvious to anyone paying attention and wouldn't have been very surprising even if you weren't expecting it.
This book was a really fun read. It was replete with witches, iron bears and all sorts of mythical creatures. The plot was fun and moved a long at a good pace. It was a real page turner. I would recommend this book to all who love Young Adult/Fantacy.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
One of my favourite childhood books, no idea how many times I've read and reread.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.My first Philip Pullman, and probably my last.When I read a book I don't like, I usually figure it's just not for me, and I have different tastes, blah, blah, and move on.
Philip Pullman has awfully combined two of the greatest conundrums of modern science, dark matter and the nature of consciousness, into one very week element within his narrative, and has connected it with the transition from childhood to adolescence.
After all this is a YA novel.Pullman's suggestion is that children are not fully self-conscious until adolescence.
I was looking forward to it so much because the premise sounded incredible and I was excited to hear Pullman's atheism woven into his work, but everything about this book was bland.
It was so slow moving and the characters were all so unlikable, I was honestly shocked that I was reading the same book that everyone else loved?
I honestly don't think I'll continue on with the series even though I want to know what happens, but I'd honestly prefer to read plot summaries online rather than slog my way through 2 more boring af books.
Around the Year in 52 Books Challenge Notes:35.
An award winning book
Somewhere between 3 and 4 stars but I'm leaning more towards 4.This was fun read. Great and imaginative worldbuilding, fast pace and bit of innocent vibe from children books.Sadly few illogical moments, Mery Sue syndrome and cliffhanger stops it from getting higher rating and warmer place in my heart.
