https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20575411-lila
And in this new novel, we’re finally, fully engaged with Lila, the unlikely young woman who marries Rev. Ames late in life and gives him a son when he feels as old as Abraham.The geography and the cast of characters are mostly familiar, but this time around we’re entering a wholly different spirit.
Lila crawls into Gilead from another world altogether, a realm of subsistence living where the speculations of theologians are as far away — and useless — as the stars.The novel opens in a fog of misery.
But I can’t see how it’s going to work,” Lila says.
Thus begins one of the most beautiful human connections in literature as Lila meets the Reverend John Ames.
While Gilead was told from John’s point of view, Lila is a third person narrative which focuses on Lila’s life.
It highlights her own perspective of those events leading up to the time she meets John and their early life together.
Stepping back into the loneliness, a dreadful thing, like walking into cold water, waiting for the numbness to set in that was the body taking the care it could, so that what you knew you didn’t have to feel."After much reflection, I really must change my rating to 5 stars.
It won the 2014 National Book Critics Circle Award.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز هشتم ماه سپتامبر سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: لی لا؛ نویسنده: مریلین رابینسون؛ مترجم: مرجان محمدی؛ تهران، نشر قطره، 1394؛ در 345 ص؛ شابک: 9786001198625؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 ممرجان محمدی مترجم این اثر در گفتگو با خبرنگار مهر درباره ی این رمان اظهار داشتند: «لی‌لا» به عنوان جدیدترین و آخرین اثر داستانی منتشر شده از مرلین رابینسون، که دو سال قبل به زبان اصلی منتشر شده، یک سال گذشته را در تدارک انتشار ترجمه آن در ایران بودم، که از سوی نشر قطره میسر شد.
Her former life was hinted at but Robinson cleverly left much of Lila’s story a complete mystery; she clearly had plans for Lila from the beginning.The earlier books each presented different facets of John Ames’ character.
The picture that emerges is of a mostly thoughtful and kind man, very committed to his faith, but we remember that this is a first person narrative and we know not to completely trust his account of everything.In Home, we see Ames among his parishioners and friends, in particular the Baughton family who live next door.
Perhaps --but unfortunately-and fortunately I think there are many 'Lila's' in this world.
I related to her in many ways myself.The writing once again blew me away - especially fit the emotional key of perfect pitch for me on several occasions.
I loved this book - I loved all the books - don't ask me to pick a favorite- I just don't want to.
I absolutely loved John Ames- the old preacher - again - in this novel!!!!!
AS I WRITE THIS...
tears come to my eyes....
LolMuch love to my friends!!!!!
GREAT SERIES!!!!
213)Here she is running away, but also symbolically coming home on her arc towards Gilead.Later, Lila and the Reverend discuss his Sunday sermon in some of the best Robinson prose I have read so far:"Life on earth is difficult and grave, and marvelous.
Just two pages later, Lila is able to say "I love you" to the Reverend in her own unique way:"'No', she said.
This moral ambiguity is a cornerstone of Robinson's depictions of Gilead.Lila was a wonderful read and I look forward to reading Home now which I finally got from the library last week!
Shielded by Doll, the enigmatic woman who saved her life as a baby, Lila pushes through in Dickensian conditions; hunger, loneliness and all kind of picaresque penuries paint her unusual story reminding the reader of the most celebrated works by Steinbeck where a constant drip of nomads sprinkled the countryside trying to escape the Great Depression.
So when she appears in John Ames’ church in Gilead on a Sunday morning, wrenched and freezing, it seems exceedingly improbable that the two might bond.
2.5 stars  This book is written with the most beautiful and elegant prose and for the first few few pages I really was enjoying the book but sadly the structure of the novel didn't work for me.
There is a very strong religious theme in this novel and it certainly belonged in the stroy but I found it a little much at times and again I think if I had read the book I would have understood it more and perhaps enjoyed it better.
I did finish the novel and was glad I struck with it because  the prose is beautiful and poetic but for me this one just didn't float my boat.
She is such a diverse character, wise yet naïve, suspicious yet giving, always thinking and searching for answers.Reading about her young life, her life as a traveler, going wherever Doll, the woman who took her, needed to go in order to find work.
Loved the character of Doll, the wise old woman who had such a tough life yet took a little girl in order to save and protect her.
Eventually Lila would find her way alone to Gilead, with a past she didn't want to speak of, but thought of often.
The first seventy or so pages are absolutely ravishing – beautiful writing, a compelling story and a real sense the author has embarked on a lucid visionary quest.
In this sense it’s more of a fable than a novel with archetypes replacing believable human beings.
In Robinson’s hands the embittering experiences of Lila’s youth remain largely cosmetic.
Gilead, for me, was charged with dramatic tension by the appearance of wanton malevolence into the narrative; Lila, on the other hand, has only her own demons to oppose and they are eliminated with the predictability of ogres falling in fairy stories.
The message perhaps take too much precedence over dramatic tension.
But, occasionally, a work of fiction steps beyond that and becomes important.
What if the person who understands life the best is the one who has suffered the most and been offered the least?
This is a portrait of what it is to be the dispossessed and forgotten and what it is to look beneath the surface and discover that we are all fashioned of the same blood and tissue and fear and need.I will be digesting this book and its brothers for a long, long time.
This book has characters that I want to know , a story that made my heart ache and yet lifted my spirit at the same time and writing that is just so good that I didn't want the last page to be the last page.What struck me about Lila was the sadness , the loneliness , the lack of a sense of belonging and her inability to trust anyone.
Through flashbacks we learn Lila's story and where she had been and what has happened to her in the years before she came to Gilead .I loved her inquisitiveness , her desire to learn and the big life questions she asks .
He too has suffered sadness and loneliness for years .This for me was a love story .
I’ve tried and I’ve tried with Marilynne Robinson.
Each time I pick up one of her books I optimistically feel a surge of hope that THIS time I will get it, THIS time I will understand what everyone else raves about, THIS time I will see the light.
But no, yet again I am left bemused as to why she is such an acclaimed writer, and yet again I struggle to continue reading.
Indeed, Doll’s fall from grace is rather spectacular and very colourful too.After meeting the preacher at the church for the first time, Lila is aware that he’s looking at her but he actually “sees” her and in fact inevitably soon will “know” her in the biblical sense and I think he realizes at this stage that she will play an important part in his life.
The other day it occurred to me that reading Robinson's novels feels similar to reading Willa Cather.
They both have a talent for saying important things in understated, familiar ways that make you really FEEL the truth of them.
In this book, Lila herself is reading the biblical book of Ezekiel, surprised at how this wild, dangerous poetry rings so true to her.
She just "knows" the truth of it.
That's how I feel, exactly, reading Robinson's trilogy.
It is hard to explain how very true it feels.
Her stories (including Lila) are haunting, beautiful, and thoughtful...
This is every bit as rich and self-contained a book as either of its predecessors, a deeply moving meditation on life, love, and God. It is the simplest of the three novels, and the earliest in time, essentially the story of how the elderly preacher John Ames meets and marries his second wife, a former drifter who goes by the name of Lila.
Ames too tries to make the Bible touch earth: in affirming its relevance to his own life, explaining it to Lila, respecting the wild thing that she is, and building trust and tenderness between them.Marilynne Robinson's 1980 novel Housekeeping, written almost a quarter-century before her next one, Gilead, is also about drifters.
Halfway through I stop and read some lovely reviews that do it the justice it no doubt deserves and make me feel like a completely inadequate reader not up to the task of appreciation.
I feel the need to stop and ponder, but do not know when or if I should, except at the designated few and far between break points.
I feel there should be more of them but the narrative just keeps going and changes directions like my mind when it keeps running and won’t shut off, as if there won’t be another day or time to take up thinking again.
This has to be one of the most beautiful love stories I've ever read, even though it would not be classified as such.
There is a lot of religious discussion between the two of them, very interesting because it pits his conservative Calvinism against her street smarts and common sense.
Personally, I thought she won every discussion, although she did consent to be baptized, but then she rinsed it off so it wouldn't really count.
It's a peaceful read.My hope is that she'll decide to do another installment from the point of view of their son.
As John Ames’s late-life second wife, Lila’s something of a background figure in Gilead; there are only hints at her rough upbringing and manners, as well as her slightly unorthodox spiritual thinking.
Lila is a prequel, then; its present-day is the late 1940s, when Lila’s wanderings bring her to Gilead, Iowa and she falls into an altogether surprising romance with the elderly pastor.
However, I wished Lila’s story could have been in a more intimate, dialect-rich first person, to rival Ames’s in Gilead; I also fear many readers will be put off by the biblical material here: it’s essentially an extended analogy to the book of Hosea, plus there are frequent snatches of the books of Ezekiel and Job – not exactly accessible examples of scripture.(See my full review at For Books’ Sake.)
I received a review copy of this book from the publisher, but since it was a finalist for the National Book Award, I would have been reading it anyway!When I finally got around to reading Gilead, I was surprised by how much I liked it despite its very small world.
Marilynne Robinson kept to that small world when she wrote Home, a story set in the same time with a parallel character.
Her shirts and her dress looked to her like creatures that never wanted to be born, the way they wilted into themselves, sinking under the water as if they only wanted to be left there, maybe to find some deeper, darker pool.
I just about hyperventilated when I found out Marilynne Robinson has a new novel coming out in October. It has been over five years since I read Home. I may have to re-read it to get myself warmed up for this new one.
In the second of the series, Home, the view changes to John Ames’ best friend, a fellow minister named Boughton, and we meet Lila again through oblique references.
She drifts into Gilead where she meets the much older, thoughtful minister and widower, John Ames, who offers her shelter, kindness, and security through marriage.The biggest question that looms for those of us who have taken Gilead to our hearts is this: “Does the novel Lila live up to its predecessors?” Each reader must answer that question individually, but for me, the answer is complicated.I am unschooled in theology; a friend explained that certain Bible passages that Lila studies with John Ames are extraordinary statements from problematic parts of the Bible.
This book gives us the back story of Lila from the time she was snatched off the stoop by Doll, who saves her from a life of neglect.
From her reading of books like Ezekiel and Job, she certainly produces some interesting questions for the Reverend John Ames.
Lila is such a mixture, naive in some ways, wise in others and at times the reader’s heart breaks for her, or mine did.Like Gilead its companion book, I suspect this is one I will re-read and ponder over.
The narrative lazily meanders back and forth in time taking the reader from Lila's rescue at age four by the itinerant Doll, to her difficult life on the road where she relies on her instincts and survives by working as everything from a field hand to a cleaning woman in a whorehouse, and finally to her arrival in Iowa, her marriage and pregnancy (events not necessarily told in chronological order).There is an abundance of scripture quoting and examination of the Calvinist doctrines and theology which, while essential to the telling of this particular story, were not particularly absorbing.
"Gilead" is a letter written by a well-read pastor; "Home" is a third person novel about more than usually intelligent people.
This is a perfect third novel, then, since it gives us a slightly different form (Home is about Jack's return home, mainly from Glory's point of view; this is about Lila from Lila's point of view), and a very different kind of subject (not the well-read pastor, not the looks-bad-but-is-good-at-heart returning son).
All of that said, if you really like Housekeeping, you should probably read this novel rather than the other two Gileads.
لیلا آمد
لی‌لا آمد
In passing (view spoiler)[the boy who thought he'd killed his father reminded me of Playboy of the Western World which I imagine wasn't quite the effect Mme Robinson was aiming for (hide spoiler)].It is a book which quotes from Ezekiel and mentions Jeremiah and Lamentations, the things there in described sometimes seem matter of fact descriptions to Lila who has seen the work of great winds upon the mid-West of the United States.
Lila is rescued from a workhouse when she is five by a woman named Doll.
Doll, perhaps owing much to Toni Morrison’s creations, is an eloquent illiterate women, mistrustful of the world at large.
It will fall on Ames, the preacher, to baptise Lila into a world of trust and grace.
Bringing the wind inside.”This is a moving love story between an older man and a young girl, a preacher and a fallen woman, both of whom ask deep soil-shifting questions of each other and through whose relationship Robinson is able to formulate many questions about Christian faith.
Quanta stranezza…”E per tutto il romanzo, con Lila – nel senso letterale del termine – ho cercato la risposta al perché le cose accadono, ma ho letto solo di dolore :  Come è possibile che tutto questo ( povertà, sofferenza) non avesse importanza?
… Per lei la quiete dal mondo era orribile, una presa in giro.E lei ragiona fra sé sul male che aveva lasciato segni sulla sua pelle di bambina prima e di adulta poi, ma ne chiede le ragioni anche a lui.
C’è un momento nella vita, per quanto fortunata e ovattata possa essere stata, che sei di fronte alla semplice domanda del perché le cose accadano.
I read Faulkner's "Light in August" a long time ago, in college, but something about "Lila" recalled it for me.
When I looked for plot summaries and quotations from "Light in August" online in an effort to figure out why I was making that connection, I discovered that the feeling I recall having at the end was much more positive than the plot points and analysis suggest it should have been.
It could be that Robinson's lovely writing, and new mother Lila's drifter state for much of her life, resurrected Lena Grove for me.
It's what I believe to be the central fact of the human condition, but I need to be reminded of it amid the details of daily life.
