https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20443207-the-winner-s-crime
EVEN BETTER THAN THE FIRST BOOK!
I loved that we got more into world and the different cultures, and I loooooooved the relationship development between Kestrel and Arin!
Even though it was a little frustrating at times, the tension and the angst just GAH IT HURT SO GOOD.
I loved the characters, both old and new, and I loved the story and the conflict and the beautiful writing and I HATED/LOVED THAT ENDING.
JEEZE.So to sum up: I LOVED THIS.
I thought it was a great second book that built wonderfully upon the first while setting up for an epic third installment.
However, the way that book ended had me curious about the potential new directions of book two...I was right to be curious.
Because this second book is very clearly not a romance and I felt the complete lack of guarantee in a happy ending on every single page.The Winner's Crime is much more tightly-plotted and full of genuine surprises than the first book.
It gave me a new kind of respect for her and I can't wait to see where her story goes.One thing I like a lot about these books is the way each ending has promised a very different kind of story.
Make your own book-inspired tattoos! Here's my tutorial + free download featuring quotes from this trilogy: -------------------------------------------------------------------4.5 stars Marie Rutkoski is cruel to our little falcon, my friends. This book is filled with anger, betrayal, sacrifice, and yearning--not to mention secret messages, delicious cat-and-mouse dialogue, and despairing subtext. If you love impossible romances set against the backdrop of war, give this series a try--though be f
Make your own book-inspired tattoos! Here's my tutorial + free download featuring quotes from this trilogy:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------4.5 stars Marie Rutkoski is cruel to our little falcon, my friends. This book is filled with anger, betrayal, sacrifice, and yearning--not to mention secret messages, delicious cat-and-mouse dialogue, and despairing subtext. If you love impossible romances set against the backdrop of war, give this series a try--though be forewarned that the ending is TORTURE. Pure torture.Full review is on the blog.
AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!Love, love, loved it! My heart aches for book three. Review to come closer to release date.
4.25 OooooOOOooh things are gettin good people
Some advisement can be given to her, but nothing that will put the other person in a delicate or vulnerable place.Indeed, as I swiftly mentioned, there is less romance...but there still is some.
It is much more adapted to the context, for sure, but his behaviour and the things he does, oh dear, it will not please many.I don’t remember if the first book had such a slow pacing too.
This is a very slow read.
The kind of slow that, even if you’re trying to read faster, it will not let you.
“I’m going to miss you when I wake up,” she whispered, because she realized that she must have fallen asleep under the sun. Arin was too real for her imagination. He was a dream.“Don’t wake up,” he said.  I'm standing next to my window,allowing the near summer breeze to caress my face while I try to pull myself together,to ignore the feeling that I was stabbed in the heart by dozens sharp daggers.For your information Marie Rutkoski,the daggers would have hurt less.  “I don’t mind being a moth.
The Winner's Crime was an excellent sequel to The Winner's Curse.Brutal and tearjerking,but excellent,although there weren't many scenes between Arin and Kestrel.Marie Rutkoski's writing is so rich,filled with so many unspoken yet powerful emotions.She presented her heroes' choices and dilemmas with such clarity that I thought it was me the one who eventually had to take matters in my own hands.I suffered with Arin's ignorance of what Kestrel had sacrificed for him and his struggle to understand,the trials he had to go through,the humiliation and the physical pain,and above all his excruciating love for Kestrel.His anger and hatred were just the surface,under which lied the undying love that even urged him to choose her over his own country.I understand why Kestrel wanted to keep him in the darkness,it was the only way to prevent him from doing something that would put in danger his life and his nation,but there were times I wanted to scream,to make her tell him how much he meant to her.
If you'd like to read the first three chapters, they are available for a sneak preview here: http://tinyurl.com/q8gk2a8Love,The author
I'm a little shocked quite frankly that my rating didn't change after reading this book a second time.Somewhere along the lines of good and evil, there is a thin band of nothing, I'd like to think of it as betrayal.
I loved the way the story got a chance to rebuild itself, around a whole new setting and plot.
I'd like to think of that as something only a very talented author can manage.Overall I reread this book when I got a new copy, I left the older one on the plane last year, and didn't have the chance to get it back.
- specialists concluded that the cause of death was the book in hand and the fact that the CHARACTERS WOULDN'T JUST COMMUNICATE ALREADY OH MY FREAKING JESUS LORD.okay but forreals let's talk about this evil, evil, evil bookfirst off: i don't think it was as good as the winner's curse, and i know i'm in the minority by saying that.
and i don't mean suck like, "wow, that was just trash." i mean suck like, "where's the nearest cliff because i need to throw myself off of it." marie rutkoski is really good at making you feel like your beloved characters are never going to be able to get a happy ending.
just thinking about this book makes me cry.
I'll write a full review sometimes today, meanwhile you are welcome to read those comments and judge.“Yes, stop playing, Kestrel, she told herself.
Now."If I don't write a review now, I never will, so...I'm trying, even though I don't think it will be coherent.The winner's crime *breathes* ok, ok, The winner's crime is much more beautiful and much more painful than The winner's curse.
Okay, it's difficult to talk about it, because everything I'd say would be spoiler, but...The Winner's Crime is a clever book.
Arin and Kestrel misunderstand each other and the author always plays with double meanings to do it.
I know that Kestrel is trying to make sure nothing happens to Arin because if she tells him she's doing it all for him then he will go off and be a twat and ruin everything.
Not that they don't like each other as people, they just know that the emperor twat is using them both.
The whole thing is that Arin and his people poisoned and killed a lot of the Valorians but Arin gave Kestrel something to give Jess to help her live.
I think Arin was a slave for like 10 years.
Look, I liked the first book and all, but what the FUCK is with that cover? This is a high fantasy!
It was really great to see the further development of Arin and Kestrel and to see their interactions with other people but their interactions with EACH OTHER WERE SO STRESSFUL ALWAYS.The world building wasn't as solid as the first book - I couldn't really imagine any of the places the action took place.
MUCH POLITICS, VERY INTRIGUE.If my babes don't end up happy in some way or another in the third book I'm gonna be so mad.
I'm all for tragedy as long as there is a happy ending and it's not just tragedy for tragedy sake.
What a beauty of a book.
————————[Actual rating: 4.5] Ugh, the feels!
The scope of this book got bigger and better.
The first book is almost tame in comparison.
Or is, actually.
The characters were more developed and had a lot more layers and intricacy to them.
I did not want to put this book down.
I absolutely adored Kestrel in this book.
I love the way we saw her reason behind things, and how she came to a conclusion.
Arin, my love!
His loyalty made his character what it is.
Jumping right into the third book.
4.5 Stars! While I didn't enjoy the sequel as much as book one, I did really like this book! What's funny is with The Winner's Curse, I was OBSESSED with the first half but my excitement faltered through the ending. With The Winner's Crime, I was somewhat bothered by the first half whether that be from slight boredom to outright frustration with characters, I was totally INTOXICATED by the second half! I'm so so happy I finally got around to picking up this series, and I'm really excited to see what the conclusion has in store for this world!
With her heart belonging to another, but her fate promised to the Valoria empire, she has excepted her future and the sacrifice it's made for the greater good, even if it still hurts like hell...Forced into marriage with the prince as a bargaining chip for freeing Herran from the vicious rule the emperor had on the Herrani slaves, Kestrel has finally freed them from his iron grip and malicious way of living.
Update: 27/03/2016, waiting for the last book in the trilogy.
I mean, how can I read “Sometimes you think you want something,” Arin told him, “when what you need is to let it go.” and expect me to be alright?
I feel like one.I'm just speechless.How can I wait until the next book?How will I survive?Kestrel spat blood.
“I gave him nothing.”I need to sleep and stop thinking about this damn book so I can rest a little and try to write a better review tomorrow.Or maybe I should leave it like it is.
Esto es lo que más me gustó de este libro, tiene un escenario totalmente diferente al primero, y estoy segura será diferente del tercero.Tenemos a una Kestrel con una vida y preocupaciones totalmente diferente a cuando vivía en Herran.
Trata de evitar muertes innecesarias en la guerra, ser espía de los herranies en la corte, no defraudar al emperador, que no se le note lo mucho que sufre por su situación con Jess, tratar de parecer entusiasmada con su boda, al mismo tiempo que trata de poner a un lado su corazón y su amor por Arin.
If you’re new to this series… you better THANK YOUR LUCKY STARS that all three books are out. Because this? This book. WORST. CLIFFHANGER. EVER. Let me tell you a little story about when I first read this book.  Poor Brittney was sick and stuck in her bed for several days last winter. She was all out of books except the first and second book of this series already purchased and waiting. So she started this series. Loved the first book. Was literally flying in the second book because holy batman
Nay. More like someone was able to wield the power of Thor's hammer and direct it right at my face.
Obviously from the description/end of the last book, you can decipher that Kestrel has basically given herself to the Emperor and his son because of the nice little bargain she made to save Arin’s life.
(stop here if you would rather not know the general direction of the plot…) Are you ready for non stop torture about Arin trying to figure out what in the heck Kestrel got herself into and Kestrel doing everything in her power to make sure he doesn’t find out?
She just made it onto my all-time-favorite female characters list.This book is yet another YA attempt at striking the balance between general badassery and romance, but this is the best take I’ve ever seen.
Basically, she’s terrific and I love her.I am very into politics as well, so when I see a YA book that has anything to do with politics, I’m like, count me in!
Okay, yes, it was pretty much on every page, but the two characters spent most of the book apart so it wasn’t AS intolerable.I’m scared I won’t like the next book as much, but I lowkey want to read it right now.
4.5 stars.so,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,WHAT THE FUCK WHAT THE FUCK WHAT THE FUCK WHAT THE FUCK WHAT THE FUCKi swear rtc once im done dying----------bless my library for having this on their shelves when i went to check because lord that ending is killing me.
This series just gets better and better.
Oh the FEELS!!! Wow. Just. Wow. If you have read book one which is The Winner's Curse then you need to stop reading this, right now, pick up book one and read these 2 books. They are a MUST OWN, A MUST READ. You want a book that has everything? then look no further because this is it. AND THEY ARE CLEAN! There is romance to swoon for, adventure, political intrigue, lies, truths, heart breaks (reader and character), an amazing cast of characters that you just want to kill of and root for! The sto
This book gets zoo utterly twisted you can't put it down!I LOVE Kestrel's character even though you want to yell at her, you also cheer her own, ache with her, and hope she knows what she is doing.
While surrounded by the gorgeous beauty of a palace and the balls and gowns, Kestrel has to constantly wear different facades in order to protect the ones she loves and herself, yet for how long is she able to uphold it all up and still try to save a people other deem not worth saving?Arin...Arin, Arin.
You just FEEL for Arin throughout this whole book.
“I wanted to trust you,” he whispered. “I tried. But I couldn’t lie to myself hard enough.”  I was too absorbed in the story to mark anything in this book so I apologize for the lack of quotes in the following review. :PThe Winner's Crime is another fast-paced story with heart-wrenching twists of plot in the trilogy. All I remember is an abundance of political and military strategies among the soldiers and the main characters. Even though there are tons of unpredictable events in this book, wh
The reason I don't give it a well deserved 5/5 stars partly because this installment (and the way this story develops) makes the entire plot way too political and partly because I don't really like hearing Kestrel lie anymore.
As much as I'm impressed by the idea of "The Winner's Curse" in the first book, I'm aware that this will involve a bit political issues and means.
So as the story contains too many political issues, I get tired and irksome easily.Another disappointment about this book is the fact that Kestrel tells too many lies.
Still like the first book more but there’s so. much. pain. in this one, can somebody heal my broken heart? 😭💔 I have never come across a romance this complicated far out I need a damn good conclusion and the third book now pls
"Arin and I are impossible," [Kestrel] said quietly. "Dangerous. It is best that we keep our distance from each other." Trusted bloggers and reviewers told me and told me I'd love The Winner's Crime. "The stakes are so high," they raved. "It's miles better than its predecessor!", Your heart will be ripped into little-bity shreds!"The stakes are high, alright, though not in the way you'd think. Stakes: will Kestrel and Arin stop wallowing in self-inflicted angst long enough to have an honest con
Stakes: will Kestrel and Arin stop wallowing in self-inflicted angst long enough to have an honest conversation?
Angst is like bullshit; it is only tolerable in small quantities.Arin and Kestrel haven't an ounce of common sense between them.
Here, he openly proclaims his love for Kestrel despite knowing she's engaged and they could both be beheaded for crimes against the royal family.
It's nice to know some things don't change.Kestrel is equally as dumb.
Just because it's an ARC doesn't mean I should put up with lazy first-draft writing.The Winner's Curse also seems to be in love with great, sweeping cinematic effects when its characters are in the throes of despair and confusion.
(In a way where I wanted more) I knew coming into this, things weren't going to be the same, there had to be lots of changes and lots of deception throughout this book."You gave me so much once" - ArinI had originally put this at a 3.5 star rating, but I've been thinking about this, and it's so much more than what I initially thought.
I thought it was really clever and something a bit different to see more, Arin was such a closed character in the first book, so it was really welcoming to see what he actually felt.- We got to see more characters, I mean I didn't like them all but we got to know more!
4.5 stars Ugh this was exhausting to read. SO MANY LIES. Excited for the last book!
I would probably start eating silk if it meant that I could fly.”This book took way too long to read and it had absolutely nothing to do with the novel itself.
“Kestrel saw all of her mistakes, strung in such a crowded, ugly line that it was difficult to tell which one had come first.”If anyone happened to miss Kestrel’s obvious intelligence in the first book, Rutkoski portrays it even better here.
No. I was hard-core shipping Kestrel and Verex, her future husband, on the other hand (Yes, I know; he cares for someone else, but tell that to my heart.
