https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32456.Darkfall
To use the person’s own words: ”That’s just plain ridiculous.”And as good as the opening sequences are, the apocalyptic cheesefest ending is almost the exact polar opposite, even if it does score points for its Lovecraftian factor.If you’re looking for some early Koontz-horror, when the supernatural and the bizarre was still very much his thing, you may want to check this out, although only if you’ve already read the likes of Phantoms and Midnight since I believe they’re both better than Darkfall.From the Author’s AfterwordI do not rate Darkfall among my best work, but I’ll be immodest enough to say that I think it’s a fun read.
One of Koontz’s earliest novels that was originally titled “The Pit” by his persona Owen West, has been retitled “Darkfall” and is now published along with other Koontz titles.
The writing of “Darkfall” is just as dark and evil as I had expected.Koontz’s use of imagery throughout the novel is outstanding.
Lavelle practices voodoo, but other than a few references to his rituals, I found that there was much research lacking by Koontz.The characters Jack and Rebecca were well developed and I felt a strong connection to them, even to the evil forces of Lavelle.
He desperately tries to get readers to feel for the heroine, who wouldn't go with the good cop because...A junkie came into the shop her father owned, and despite the fact that the man gave him money that he wanted he killed him.That's a tragedy.But he returned and shot the woman's mother, who was in the shop too.That's a double tragedy, really.
Uncle Sam is watching.Here are some descriptions of the bad guy, who comes to help the good guys by providing them with a photo of Lavelle."Don Gennaro Carramazza, patriarch of the most powerfulmafia family in New York.(...)He had a surprisingly cultured voice." - that's a good beginning, but..."The old man looked like a lizard.
He's got two types of female characters that he just switches up between books.
Then there are authors who are very bad at doing this, but are deluded into thinking that they are not, and write passages like this: "...Love is the only thing that endures.
Deserts give way to new seas.
It's like life in general this way - we each get one, and how we use it is up to us.
I liked the action and pace and the assassins (which I thought were cool).
It's too bad that the issues I had were so large.
you may have run across the fact that Mr. Koontz (at least for a while) was (and for all I know may still be) very...."disillusioned" with Hollywood.
Still there was also a period (probably before this) when many of Mr. Koontz'z novels read (to me at least) as if they were outlines for screen plays.
This is one of those.My wife and both my kids read this one some years ago (my daughter still holds a prank against her younger brother as while she was engaged in the more tense part of this novel he waited behind a door and leapt out at her...causing screams, mayhem and chaos throughout the house).
i don't read horror for it...though I know some do.So...not a bad book.
This was enjoyable, suspensful, and dark. Koontz even says in the afterward that it was not necessarily his best work, but he was hoping for a page turner - so he succeeded!
Because of this, while there are creepy moments, it doesn’t have that still sort of fear induced from other novels like his, such as "Phantoms."The main characters are two cops, an interesting pair who are just now bringing their relationship up to ‘another level’.
The words all flow together well, the characters are deep, the plot is follow-able and avoids confusion, and the tension/suspense strummed tightly enough.While Darkfall delivers on many levels, it fails on a small few - one of the main issues being the ending, and the other being a somewhat light use of atmosphere when it could have been used to greater advantage.
presently all by itself, some dashy and perky horror stories are really lame in comparison to koontz's oldschool hardass horrors
The publisher Headline had just launched a number of his books with new covers and they had a huge window display at a local bookshop.
The storyline although at that time it was called Darkness Comes - was a new one to me (I guess now I have read far too many books which have echoes of this story) and I could not wait to see what happened, who would survive and what became of the main characters.
But as you can imagine I had to read more - and so here lies my problem.
Даже е за две и половина.
Then I got to the first scene with Jack and Rebecca and right then and there it started getting the same feeling that Phantoms gave me.
Things just ended to damn conveniently for the characters.
The Taking is an incredible book and I loved every second of it, but Phantoms and Darkfall have just ruined this author for me.
There's not enough character development in Rebecca to wash off the bitch vibe you get at the beginning, Jack just doesn't strike me as the brightest light bulb for some reason, and his kids are honestly just annoying.

You catch yourself yelling at the main character to "call and tell them the new info!!!!", and then realize that they can't, unless they hit up a pay phone.
A pay phone?!!
If you get the newest paperback version, there is an entry by Koontz that tells about how this book was supposed to be released under a pen name because editors at the time were reluctant to let authors explore outside of their particular genre.
Anyway, it was interesting to get a 'behind the scenes' look at the beginning of Koontz's career.
Suspenseful.
Heart-pounding.
The story is about two detectives, Jack and Rebecca, who are investigating a series of crimes where the victims have been chewed, although not by any kind of animal that can be recognized by medical doctors.
Knives?
No. Too small.
Penpricks?
Well, how does a vicious body-building bodyguard not be able to fend those off?
Voodoo?
But not Rebecca.
But when Jack's children, Penny and Davey are dragged into the mess, will Rebecca rexamine her views?
And will they all be able to fight off the demon creatures that chase after them in the night in the walls?
En Nueva York se están produciendo una serie de crímenes espantosos contra una familia mafiosa. La policía no encuentra explicación a los hechos, ya que los cuerpos aparecen mordisqueados y acuchillados en extrañas circunstancias. Pero el teniendo Jack Dawson está empezando a sospechar que detrás de todo anda un hechicero vudú.‘Darkfall’ (1984), de Dean Koontz, es una novela entretenida sin más, con capítulos cortos y trepidante por momentos, donde lo divertido se encuentra en las criaturas. Lo mejor el final, con algún toque lovecraftiano.
I'm not going to lie, I only really finished this book in the speed I did because I was behind on my reading challenge. I felt the book in general came off to a slow start, but then it really started to pick up when they were getting chased. So in response, I give this book 2.5 stars because it took a while to get into and even then, it still wasn't the best work I've ever read.  The storm was busily engaged on its carpentry work, building drifts in the street.  In general, I thought that the c
In general, I thought that the characters had at least some background making up for the way they were, the plot had some meat (when it actually got going), the descriptions were decent, the writing style was okay but in the end, it was the setting that made everything a whole lot better.
This book gives you a whole different image of New York opposed to how films do and in all honesty, I don't think there's anything wrong with that.The writing style was simple, but the descriptions were quite complex, especially when you were trying to grasp atmosphere, plot, characters and their personalities, etc.
ডিন কুনটজ এর পরথম কোন বই পডার সৌভাগয হল আজ।গত সনধযায মেডিসিন পডার ফাঁকে একবার ভাবলাম, ধরে দেখি বইটা কেমন। ধরে দেখার পর মনে হল, খুলে দেখি বইটা কেমন। খুলে দেখার পর মনে হল, পডে দেখি বইটা কেমন। আর পডে দেখার পর মনে হল, শেষ করেই দেখি কেমন লাগে!এই বইটা খুবই ফাসট, বেশ উপভোগয, খুব একটা বড না (সমভবত ৬০০০০ শবদ), এবং সবচেযে বড কথা হচছে এর অনুবাদটা খুব চমৎকার।মনেই হয নি অনুবাদ পডছি। আসল লেখক কিভাবে লিখেছেন জানি না, অনুবাদক সেটাকে অনুবাদ করার সময একেবারে আমাদের সংসকৃতির সাথে মিলিযে অনুবাদ করেছেন। শুধুমাতর যদি
ডিন কুন্টজ এর প্রথম কোন বই পড়ার সৌভাগ্য হল আজ।গত সন্ধ্যায় মেডিসিন পড়ার ফাঁকে একবার ভাবলাম, ধরে দেখি বইটা কেমন। ধরে দেখার পর মনে হল, খুলে দেখি বইটা কেমন। খুলে দেখার পর মনে হল, পড়ে দেখি বইটা কেমন। আর পড়ে দেখার পর মনে হল, শেষ করেই দেখি কেমন লাগে!এই বইটা খুবই ফাস্ট, বেশ উপভোগ্য, খুব একটা বড় না (সম্ভবত ৬০০০০ শব্দ), এবং সবচেয়ে বড় কথা হচ্ছে এর অনুবাদটা খুব চমৎকার।মনেই হয় নি অনুবাদ পড়ছি। আসল লেখক কিভাবে লিখেছেন জানি না, অনুবাদক সেটাকে অনুবাদ করার সময় একেবারে আমাদের সংস্কৃতির সাথে মিলিয়ে অনুবাদ করেছেন। শুধুমাত্র যদি চরিত্রের নামগুলো দেশি হত, আমি চ্যালেঞ্জ দিচ্ছি কেউই বুঝতে পারত না এটা মৌলিক লেখা নয়, অনুবাদ। অনুবাদ তো এমনই হওয়া উচিৎ!আমি জীবনে যে কয়টা অনুবাদ পড়েছি তার মধ্যে শ্রেষ্ঠ ছিল অ্যাঞ্জেলস অ্যান্ড ডেমনস এর অনুবাদ, করেছিলেন সম্ভবত মাকসুদুজ্জামান খান। আজ থেকে আমার লিস্টে ঐটার পড়েই আমি এই বইটার অনুবাদকে স্থান দিচ্ছি। অনুবাদকের প্রতি আমার লাল কালো এবং নীল সালাম রইল। ভাই, কি অনুবাদ করেছেন এইটা!
অবিশ্বাস্য!
Penny Dawson doesn't want to tell any of the grown-ups what she's heard scrabbling away in her room, because she doesn't want them to think she's crazy.
Meanwhile, her Dad is trying to solve a very strange series of "locked room mysteries." Bringing the two threads together is one of the things that Dean Koontz does best, and he's up to the task here.
There is an unfortunate romantic subplot which I thought was unnecessary, but I suspect Mr. Koontz's editor convinced him otherwise.
I think if I'd been on my own, I would have had to leave all the lights on after completing this one.
This seems to be a pretty typical Koontz book.
He completely draws you in to the story line of horror discover:The template is pretty straightforward:1.
applying conventional explanations3.
discarding the conventional explanations, 4.
discovering the nature of the supernatural, 6.
supernatural discover that it's now being hunted, 7.
short meeting of good and evilThe first six are always solid, Koontz is a master.
Where Stephen King draws out number 7 to the point that the reader loses what's going on, Koontz is too short and unsatisfying.Since this book encompasses voodoo...I would have liked to know more about voodoo...a little more research and relating would have been good.
At first the police thought they were managing a maniac or an awful gangland war. At that point, they heard the scary sounds in the ventilation framework and saw the silver eyes in the night. In a city deadened by a snowstorm, something watches- - something whose extreme casualties are youthful and guiltless.
I enjoyed the philosophical aspects of the story regarding the concepts of heaven and hell and how we choose to live our lives, although the gooey bits were less so, I realised the necessity due to the subject matter.A good read with great characters.
This is the first book I ever read by Dean Koontz and it was the one that made me a devoted fan. I've loved books by Koontz ever since. This is also my favorite book.
আজই পরথম নাম জানলাম, আজই পড়ে ফেললাম। এক নি:শবাসে শেষ করেছি। চমৎকার অনুবাদ!সমালোচনা হবে যে বিষয়ে ~ পরথম ও দবিতীয় খনড ভালো লেগেছে, পরথমাংশ বেশি। ভেবেছিলাম যেন কলাসিক মুভি দেখছি। দবিতীয়াংশ চলছিল, ভালোই। কিনতু তৃতীয় খনডে এসে সব বেমানানভাবে দরুত হয়ে গেল। টিপিকাল ভয়, গাড়িতে পলায়ন আর দুরঘটনা, আর সমাপতিটা সাধারণ মানের হরর ফযানটাসির মতো লেগেছে। জযাক বিশেষ কেউ কিনা তা মাঝের দিকে পরকাশ করার দরকার ছিলো না। আর জযাক শুধু পবিতর পানি দিয়েই নরকের দরজা বনধ করে দিল এতে বিশেষ হবার কিছুই পরকাশ পেল না, হযামপটন নিজেই
আজই প্রথম নাম জানলাম, আজই পড়ে ফেললাম। এক নি:শ্বাসে শেষ করেছি। চমৎকার অনুবাদ!সমালোচনা হবে যে বিষয়ে ~ 
Plus we have Mr. Koontz’s hooror/minions of Hell, powered by Lavelle, smallish aggressive creatures with sharp and luminescent eyes, who are after Jack’s children Penny and Davey, as well as being instruments of mass destruction in general.In some ways, “Darkfall” is reminiscent of Mr. Koontz’s “Dragon Tears,” pitting a detective pair against the forces of evil, though the latter is a better book.
While “Darkfall” does present voodoo as able to be good as well as evil (in contrast to the stereotype of it as being only evil), Mr. Koontz goes a bit heavy-handed and preachy about spirituality and Churchiness.
If you love crime thrillers you should definitely check this out. It has a supernatural element to it which I thought was great. Suspenseful, creepy, and nonstop action. That’s what I love about Dean Koontz’s books.
I don't normally read these types of books,but I enjoyed this one. I loved the voodoo aspect of the story.
My second one of Dean Koontz !Thrill, romance & a whole lot of Super-natural things !Okay...!That's my type !Koontz is awesome *_*
My Review:Characters: I am always surprised by how well Koontz writes from the viewpoint of a child.
Usually, Koontz delves into the realm of aliens or psychology, so I was a little surprised when this book took on the subject of voodoo.
I’d like to see more paranormal based books.What I got out of it:Suspense.
Books like this have me checking my closets before I go to bed, or, I guess in this case, my heating ducts.Conclusion:I’m not sure there’s much re-readability in this one, but it was certainly well worth reading at least once.
I like owning the book, knowing I can get it whenever I want.
3  stars. Above average entertainment for fearing and fleeing demonic creatures. Not much character development.Black magic voodoo sorcerer conjures demonic creatures to kill humans. His initial victims are connected to a mafia/mob family. Jack is a homicide detective on the case. The sorcerer is now targeting Jack’s children. The last third or so is running, escaping, and fighting the creatures and the sorcerer.I was annoyed with Jack’s partner Rebecca. She was negative about everything, not op
Not much character development.Black magic voodoo sorcerer conjures demonic creatures to kill humans.
The last third or so is running, escaping, and fighting the creatures and the sorcerer.I was annoyed with Jack’s partner Rebecca.
Not a lot of character development.
STUPIDITY - ACTIONS DID NOT FIT HIS MOTIVATIONS:Jack was the good guy, the righteous hero.
The sorcerer threatened to kill his kids if Jack didn’t do something in the next few hours.
Jack should have immediately run to his kids to make them safe.
Ending: good guys win.OTHER BOOKS:I’ve reviewed the following Dean Koontz books.
Dates are copyright dates.4 stars.
As I was reading this book (which is interesting in view of Koontz's larger career, as it goes against something I had previously believed about his evolution as a writer), something clicked for me.
He will never, ever give you two words where two hundred will do.And that last flaw is actually key to what I find so aggravating about him (more so in some books than in others).He's patronizing.
Patronizing.The book in itself is not terribly interesting, except as a marker in his larger career.
