https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23219.Queen_of_Babble
This is chick-lit at its worst.
She speaks like my 15 year old niece, perhaps worst.
I found it somewhat hard to believe that someone like the leading male in the book would find a vapid, self absorbed, over the top and nosey woman interesting.The author tries to convey that the characters quirky but annoying disposition as somehow endearing; unfortunately it doesn't work.
What should have been an enjoyable and quick read turned and into an annoying page turner.Not recommended for most; save your time, and spend it on reading a better quality chick-lit or romance novel.
Ah, Meg Cabot. Author of the famous Princess Diaries.Which is presumably why they automatically put Queen of Babble in the children's section at my local library. Aaaand this is me, aged 9, finding that detailed sex scene:Completely unrelated and random fun fact about me: I can pinpoint the exact moment my childhood ended.
Without having read the first one, I added all three Queen of Babble books to my list, figuring I'm neurotic enough to want to read the whole series.
But it's the formulaic plots that make certain Hollywood movies so fun and "Queen of Babble" reads just like one of these poppy chick flicks.
Through the first novel in Meg Cabot's Queen of Babble series, we get a taste of the nasty girlfriend of the guy our heroine falls in love, the humor of the best friend side character and dysfunctional family members of the heroine, and the "coming of age" aspect of Lizzie developing as the pages turn.
I love it.Some may find this novel superficial, unrealistic and way too predictable, and you know, maybe it kind of is but that doesn't mean it's less fun.I read this book after reading a lot of "depressing books" and wooow, it seriously was an amazing choice.
I like to add how I kind of like to see this book as a stand-alone for the other two, but don't get me wrong, that doesn't mean I loved them less!
I don't want to spoil anything so I won't say a lot, just that you'll understand what I mean when you read the other two and you're going to be extremely surprised.
Re-read 7/29/15: 2.5 out of 5 stars. Cute, but nothing special. I feel like I remember this being so much better. Oh well.
After meeting a guy for 24 hours, this idiot declares that she's in love with him AND THEN proceeds to move in with him, to another country of course, after only "knowing" him for three months.
The fact that she leaves a mere day after she has arrived because the guy isn't what he seemed to be (you mean in the oh, I don't know, 24 hours you've actually had a real conversation with him?
Another mere 24 hours after leaving the love of her life, she then falls in love with another guy after, you got it, knowing him for 24 hours.
Basic InfoFormat: AudioPages/Length: 5hrs and 41mins.Genre: Chick litAt A GlanceLove Triangle/Insta Love/Obsession?: Slight Triangle.
Cliff Hanger: noTriggers: n/aRating: 3 StarsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  8Plot: 7Characters: 7World Building: 6Flow:  7Series Congruity: n/aWriting: 7Ending: 7Total: 7In DeptBest Part: B's never win.Worst Part: Dumb girls.Thoughts Had: really!; wow what a bit*h; Diet coke!!!!ConclusionContinuing the Series: yesRecommending: ehShort Review: Okay i am going to write a book where the girl runs off to paris by her self and gets KILLED!
i'm over this whole lets just run off to paris and get on trains and just be okay.
*sigh* some times "love" truly blinds some people.
This is a mindless read.
The main character, Lizzie, has just graduated college with a degree that is pretty much useless.
She flies to England to spend the summer with him, which is where the real story picks up.
Lizzie is a superficial and annoying character, making it difficult to keep reading at times, but there are a few funny bits throughout the story.
In a way, Lizzie reminds me of "Rachel" from Friends in the first season - superficial, whiny, and dumb to the ways of the world - but she speaks like a middle-schooler.
Not meant for the literary geniuses of the world!
I thought I would dislike the protagonist because she shoots her mouth off at every opportunity, based on the title, but in actuality, she just has a tendency to open mouth and insert foot.
I did think what was essentially her trans-Atlantic booty call was a bit ridiculous, but it worked out in the end.
I ended up kinda spoiling myself for the second book because I thought that's the one I had already downloaded from the library, but it turns out it was the third book.
I have definitely needed this book and I am happy I have read it now.Funny, enjoyable, chick-lit romance.Yes, full of ideas known from other books of this genre (I haven't found any original/new idea), but still I don't mind. I have a nice time.[Nonetheless, I am not interested in reading the next parts of the series. But Meg Cabot's books stay on my shelf to-read in the times of need ;-).]
3.75 stars!
Whilst on her way to France she meets Jean-Luc (Luke – another one!)… could Lizzie be falling for him?I have never read a Meg Cabot book before but know she’s the author of The Princess Diaries (which I’ve seen the film of starring Anne Hathaway)!
Funny moments like that were really well done and were laugh-out-loud.The book was mainly about Lizzie and was written in the first-person to help that so we only got to know Lizzie’s friends through her – which is no bad thing.
I picked this book up for variety, since it has been sitting on my office table for the longest time, and it's been a while since I read a chicklit novel.
It was a light, okay read - nothing exceptional (where chicklit is concerned), nothing bad, either.Queen of Babble is the story of Lizzie Nichols, a (non-)graduate of History of Fashion who lives with her parents at Ann Arbor, Michigan, who flies all the way to London, England, to spend time with her British boyfriend, Andrew.
Luke, the handsome son of the owners, happens to be there, too, and, well, as in all chicklit novels, I guess we all pretty much know with whom Lizzie ends up at the end of the book.Predictable, yes.
If you are looking for a light and fluffy read this will do, but I have to say I would recommend the Heather Wells series over this one.
This series is very similar to that one, in my opinion, but it doesn't have the fun mystery of Heather Wells books to keep it interesting.
Basically this book is not very original, and if you are a chick-lit lover, like myself, you may find yourself thinking you have read most of this story 100 times before.
There were a few humorous moments too, but I still feel this book may end up being not very memorable.Very predictable, sometimes cheesy...quick, fun read, anyway.
I just like the cover and title and I thought it was going to be a cute romance book where I'd fall in love with the main character and everything.
Like if Lizzie wasn't an annoying twat and whining about such nonsense all the time then I would've cared about their relationship.
I mean, I'm happy for her that she isn't with Andrew because he was 100% horrible.I can't decide if this book is worse than the last book I read from The Princess Diaries series.I don't even want to think about who is worse: Mia or Lizzie.I wish I would have liked Queen of Babble.
There are some books that should bbe taken seriously and then there are some meant to simply entertain, this belongs to the latter.This is no Jane Austen but it has the right amount of comedy without the heroine acting like she has brain cell shortage and it isn't too high brow either for it to be snobby.
Yes she thought she was in love but when things stopped adding up she bolted like she's supposed to do and for that I am proud of Lizzie.Luke is so dreamy and understated, he's rich, successful, pays attention and listens!
When I first started this book, I was very annoyed with the main character / narrator of the book.
It took a good 20% of the book before she had a single realistic thought.
The plot twists weren't really twists at all and you pretty much knew what was going to happen the whole time.
There were a couple of subplot themes that you knew something would happen, but not exactly what that something was.
I don't know why I thought it was, maybe it was the voice of the narrator, which seemed pretty immature.
Overall, the book ended up being an ok read.
DID NOT FINISH - ZERO stars The one thing I cannot stand is a female character that is so immature and clueless as to be just too stupid to live. I quit on page 44 …. 43 pages longer than I should have read, but I was determined to give it a fair shot. After all, Cabot does start with a quotation from William Shakespeare … promising. But then she begins the novel this way:I can’t believe this. I can’t believe I don’t remember what he looks like! How can I not remember what he looks like? I mean,
43½ pages longer than I should have read, but I was determined to give it a fair shot.
I can’t believe I don’t remember what he looks like!
How can I not remember what he looks like?
How could I forget what someone whose tongue has been in my mouth looks like?It’s torture just to type it for a quote!
The thing that really gets me about books like this, and characters like Lizzie Nichols, is that there are legions of girls and young women reading these kind of books and thinking this is cute, sexy, endearing behavior.
They should read 
How disappointing that I bought the sequel to this along with this book.
Which this story tries to be, but it goes too far.
Even really stupid people realize that if you have a long-distance relationship, and the guy invites you to stay with him (in England) and it turns out he lives with his parents, and "oh yeah" the only bed he has for you is a rigged mattress in the laundry room.....even stupid people would get that it is not a redeemable situation.
But this character goes on and on trying to justify the situation and it's just so eye-rollingly TIRESOME.
it seems like people think it is totally fine for someone who used to be fat (but not tooo fat, omg) diss others for their weight and make snarky comments about their eating habits- the "plot twist" with the big miscommunication in the end of the book was so half-assed and such a cop-out (view spoiler)[I mean, if writing a diary was so important for her, it should have been told in the story before...
This was one of those light fun reads.
Not a heavy book but a fun one that was more mindless than what I usually read.
Lizzie was likable enough but she was kind of annoying and seemed a little immature for being in her 20s and almost done with college.
She is in one of those annoying long distance relationships and swears she loves him but she has really only been with him a couple months (sweetie you have no idea).
Lizzie is the girl who just seems to “fall in love” with everyone and it is annoying.
It’s annoy and she looks shallow and immature.
MC too annoying.
VERY predictable, VERY easy, VERY quick.But isn't it what I wanted from this chick-lit in the first place? Something easy to pass an evening with, forget real life problems and enjoy some litheness. Also, it kind of remind me of my early teenager years when I read 'Princess Diaries' and it is not always a bad thing to go down your memory lane.Since I haven't read that much for some time, because of reasons... (lots of reasons or maybe I'm just making them up) this one was a nice start. Now off I go to further waters!
After graduating from college (if you don't count that senior thesis that she still has to complete) Lizzie decides to head to London to spend the summer with her fabulous boyfriend Andrew.
In the three months that they have been dating Lizzie knows that Andrew is the man for her.
Making a quick decision to head to France, she decides to spend the rest of her summer with her best friend Shari and her boyfriend Chaz at a quaint and magical vineyard called Mirac.
and now, he knows more about her than he needs to.
This was a quick, fluffy book.I can't be as happy about it as I once was because I did the mistake of reading also book #2 and #3, which completely ruin the story of book #1, and brought down the whole series.The beginning parts with the UK boyfriend were gruesome (Especially the parts in his room) I would have lived better without them.
Totally cliched chick-lit. Ridiculous boyfriend. Empowering weight-loss. A crush with an evil gf (why oh why would I view a man who dates a gorgeous-but-terrible woman as a hero?!??). And a heroine who prattles on about the most vapid things. It's like being inside Kimmy Gibler's head.
Oh boy, this book had me laughing so hard. Funny and sweet, and exactly what I was looking for in a beachy read. Onto the next!
It was a cute book, but not enough substance to make me interested in reading the rest of the series.
this gives me confessions of a shopaholic vibes which i love
Lizzie terobsesi dengan gaun tua yang cantik, dia bisa membuat sesuatu yang tua dan tak menarik menjadi sesuatu baru yang unik.Selain obsesinya pada pakaian tua, dia terobsesi pada lelaki Inggris bernama Andrew yang menyelamatkannya ketika kebakaran.
Di tengah patah hati dan kebingungan Lizzie akhirnya mengambil keputusan, Lizzie menerima undangan sahabatnya, Shari dan pacarnya Chaz untuk liburan di perkebunan anggur milik keluarga teman Chaz.Aku tak mau menceritakan lebih banyak selain akan ada tokoh tampan menyerupai pangeran sempurna yang tentunya sulit diterima akal sehat.
Dan aku harus berhenti membocorkan terlalu banyak kata yang akan membuat pembaca kesal.Buku ini bagus dan aku suka di bagian tentang betapa kepar*tnya Andrew.
She has a long-distance boyfriend, Andrew, from London.
Lizzie goes to London for some of the summer to visit Andrew, and makes a big mistake.
So now Lizzie is stuck in London until her airline ticket time and she has nothing…well Shari’s always there for her.
This summer Shari and Chaz, her boyfriend, went to a wedding cabin to help out Chaz friend.
Yeah, I think its cool that has a London boyfriend but it would for me.So now Lizzie is at the wedding cabin with Shari, Chaz, and Luke, the owner’s son.
Luke soon sees the real Lizzie Nichols and hates her.
