https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/240250.Cloud_9
A hilarious and incredibly raunchy play from one of Britain's pre-eminent playwrights Caryl Churchill. Packed to the brim with taboo-breaking moments and played out by a cast of gender bending and race transcending characters, Cloud Nine is a play that will make you think, and gag, and look away, and laugh, and feel awkward. You definitely won't forget it easily.
Cloud 9 is a dive into the deep end of sexual politics.From the cast list—which indicates that some women and girls should be played by men, a black character played by a white, and a boy by a woman—it’s clear that readers are in for an adventure.How successfully this works is another question.
It argues that masculinity is oppressive and that femininity and sexual freedom are the source of “more energy.” Clive, the patriarch in the family and the British loyalist, reprimands and represses everyone else while performing his own acts of moral ambiguity on the side.
I had never thought of this as a very controversial play.
I did the dramaturgy in a team effort in 1999 and I was watching the gender switching/time switching/genre switching/place switching right in front of my little eyes and I hadn't really thought about the fact that if you're reading it, the little boy who is raped by the Uncle, is in fact, raped.
However, when you're watching it, it's played by a grown woman...so...some of it is mitigated, I guess.
The style of the first act is also so silly and fun that much of the oppression and abuse is mitigated that way.
In first act, Betty, who is Clive’s wife, is played by a man to symbolize her trying to be everything men want her to be and not appreciate herself as a woman.
Joshua, their black servant is played by a white to represent him not respecting himself as a black man and modeling himself after what Clive wants him to be.
In Act Two, the only character played by someone not of their gender is a child, Cathy, who is played by a man.It sounds complex, and it is, but it makes for a great reading.
Very peculiar. This was a required reading for my philosophy class. I didn't appreciate the "random" element of this play. There is probably lots to analyze in there but I just got bored with the crudeness and the confusing plot. There are way too many characters! Not for me.

This was a play I had to read for my tutorial at University and I'm really glad that it was chosen.
Although reading it for pleasure is something I do recommend, I look forward to at some point getting the chance to see it performed on stage as it is supposed to be performed by only seven people, allowing for certain characters to be doubled up, (reminding me of my Sophocles studies.) This would make for some interesting combinations of characters.
Overall, my second favourite play that I have read after the Crucible.
Well that was interesting! I liked the gender-bending. I'll be very interested to discuss this in class! But I'm even more sure now that I don't like 20th century things, or at least the stuff the uni chooses, cause it's all bawdy and kinda gross. But I've got more used to it since last year 🙄 wow never thought I'd "get used to" (or at least acclimatised/resigned to) gay sex in books!
Cloud 9 is messy and ambitious, but those types of plays tend to be my favorites. The entire structure relies on Brechtian distancing effects, which is what makes it so strong. The story therefore ends up in the structure itself. It tackles issues of gender, sexual identity, and perhaps most importantly the massive and longstanding effects of British colonialism. The play doesn’t provide perfect answers, but it doesn’t really need to. It would be super interesting to watch this one performed live.
Caryl Churchill's Cloud 9 aims to make strange that which we see far too often, similar to Brecht's Caucasian Chalk Circle (review here).
To see a woman spewing sexist slurs, a white man playing the part of a slave all of this aims to show the injustices and frankly idiocy that still remains in our world to this day.
Don't get me wrong I can see why it was included but surely there was a less 'I don't want to read this on the train with elderly people around me' way of writing this play?
Love and acceptance of oneself and of others is a theme at the heart of this amazing British play that revolutionized English theater.
As the censorship of the theater was stripped away, Churchill took the opportunity to present a play that was overtly frank in its depiction and discussion of sex, sexuality, and gender roles in the 1970's.
Homosexuality, gender bending, adultery, violence, racism, and graphic language all take center stage in a play that will leave you both hysterical with laughter and contemplative about the importance of love, acceptance, and family in the face of social norms and expectations.
Far too adult to be taught in grade school, Cloud 9 is, nevertheless, a play that should be read by everyone.
Hilarious and provocative meditation on identity, sexism, colonialism, sexuality and theatricality.
The play's first act is set in colonial Africa, a Victorian-era parallelism (?) between the project of Empire and the microcosm of the family.
Gender/sex/body bending abounds.
Act two transplants the same figures into contemporary England (well, contemporary to the play's publication in the end of the 70s) and questions whether we read this transition between Victorianism and 'modern' sexual politics as one of 'progress.'I would love to see this one performed, and the play comes highly recommended--I don't read much drama, and am not usually impressed when I do, but this is a real knockout.
4.5 stars (although I later downgraded it to 3.75 stars)Woah.I'm not really sure what to say other than I thought this was just incredible.
(I've spent the past five minutes trying to articulate my thoughts but it didn't make any sense, so I guess all I can tell you is to just read it.)(Or watch it)Edit that was written two minutes after I published this review: I feel like I'm overhyping the play.
Basically the thing that blew my mind was the symbolism behind characters being played by actors of the opposite gender.
Really don't know what to say about this. It was funny at times and its take on gender/sexuality is pretty clever but just... what. Half of the dialogue just seemed nonsensical. Lectures will probably clear that up. Pretty enjoyable overall!
This book explores a lot of social conventions. Sexuality, gender, gender expression, sex, race. I seems to touch on everything. And it comically shows us, as readers, how preposterous these stereotypes and roles are.I loved how casually these scenes played out.
A thought provoking satire that has a smidgen of sex, (by smidgen I mean I am being highly sarcastic and it is full of it.
Really weird
Caryl Churchill is actually a very good writer if she'd just quit writing about sex for longer than thirty seconds.
Bizarre fun.
The historical division between the two acts is almost as significant, if not more so, than the non-traditional casting in Act One (male characters are played by women and vice-versa.) As the author writes in the introduction, Act One is set in Victorian times because she wanted to highlight the repressive gender norms, stifled sexuality, nationalism, patriarchy, and imperialistic values (which, perceptibly, she presents as being interwoven and interdependent on one another.) It’s interesting that there is a doubling/overlap between Victorianism (“traditional” values) and the “savage” colonized African landscape in Act One. This seems intentional, as they are both representative of the past.
In the second act a very young girl is to be played by a man...there is less symbolism here, but seems to be because it is amusing and disregards realism.
The first act is broad comedy, the characters being caricatured Empire types.
As I said, this isn’t subtle, but satire doesn’t have to be subtle to be effective, just consistent.
The second act deals with its themes in a more serious way.
It is possible that Cloud Nine is significant in dealing with such questions in the late 1970s, but, while this gives it historical interest, it doesn’t make the themes or drama any more interesting.
And then Act Two.Act Two takes place 100 years in the future, but the characters (most of them, at least) have only aged 25 years, and I do not understand that in the slightest.
But I like it.Part of me wishes the whole of the play took place in colonialist Africa.
But I think I understand why that doesn't happen.
Again and again, I THINK.And I like that lack of understanding, because it compels me to research, to read again, and that, for me, is the mark of not just a good read, but a fantastic one.Cloud 9 is provocative, salacious, enticing.
So Act I started off really interestingly.
It was a thought-provoking dialogue of patriarchy, heteronormativity, and imperialism.
However, Act II was straight up scary.
Perhaps that is why it was so scary to me.
As a 21st century reader, me and my generation enjoys the precedent and resources available to us when exploring our sexuality.
But in the 70s, such support was simply not available.
In summation, this play makes you thankful for the times we live in, while also making you aware of all the work that STILL needs to be done in regards to the patriarchy, heteronormativity, and racism.
This postmodern play won't suit every reader.
But, anyone interested in the British Empire, the 19th-century, feminism and expressionism should find Churchil's play intriguing, funny and sharp in its criticism of gender and race politics.
In a trademark Churchill move, the first and second acts of the play are set in entirely different centuries and locations (i.e., the first act of the play is set in colonial Africa, and the second in 1970s Britain).
The result is that readers/viewers of the play can imagine connections between the two locations and eras.
I've taught this play for years, and absolutely love it!
Some playwrights can be appreciated on the page; I'm not sure Churchill is one of them. This is one of her better-known plays, a time-jumping look at race, class, and sexuality across a century. I found the first half, set in Victorian Africa, far more compelling than the second part; in the latter, it was not clear to me why some of the actors from the first part were assigned their particular counterparts, and many of the interactions seemed whiny. Again, perhaps it works better on the stage, as intended.
I dare you to find a more bizarre and abnormal narrative than Cloud 9 - if you can even call it a narrative. The personalities involved, the setting, the elements, it is all just quite weird and not always totally understandable, but always funny - in a challenging way. Underneath it all there are interesting themes worth considering, once you peel away all the weirdness of it. Would recommend to anyone interested in digesting their reads, and not just strolling through.
A group of British expats in Africa have sex with other and express their inner impulses toward empire. I have tried to grasp Caryl Churchill's plays and just must not have the intellectual horsepower. Many characters, sexual situations, depression and it just feels like it goes nowhere. The threads of narrative start then just peter out. At the end I didn't care about the characters or the point of the exercise. Can't recommend.
This fractured narrative is perhaps structurally similar to Top Girls with very distinctive 'before and after' parts. It tackles similar themes too, the place of women in the world, the sacrifices asked, the delusions occasionally embraced. History is acknowledged also, as is race, to a greater degree, along with the notions of heroism and morality. A fine and often strange play.
Seriously one of my favorite plays, I saw this several years back at the Atlantic Theater in NYC and it was such a vivid, remarkable experience watching this play unfold. Churchill masterfully twines gender-bending, double casting, and double entendres together to continually make the audience feel captivated. I also love a good orgy scene in a play (The Angry Brigade really started that for me).
I absolutely loved the play! it deals with so many interesting topics. I found fascinating how sex is influenced by politics, and basing the first act on victorian Africa was genius in orther to emphazise sexual repression. Definitely worth reading, analyzing, and of course performing.
