https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152653.In_the_Heart_of_the_Heart_of_the_Country_and_Other_Stories
Gass and me (or Gass and “I”) are having a fallout.
And “I” use the word fallout in the nuclear sense.
This is the first Gass product that has elicited outright shrugging.
The remaining four pieces find Gass experimenting with the modernist toolbox in ways this 2013 reader found interminable.
Where is that Gass music in these fumbling, staccato apprentice pieces?
“I” am off for a wee Willy weep.
I am keeping count, and as I write this page, it is eleven days since I have seen the sun.And People:Billy closes his door and carries coal or wood to his fire and closes his eyes, and there's simply no way of knowing how lonely and empty he is or whether he's as vacant and barren and loveless as the rest of us are -- here in the heart of the country.Oh, it's cold there, and gray, very gray.
Or telephone wires by a house which, in Gass' description, make me think of a certain culture-changing corporation with designs on absorbing an entire market:These wires offend me.
Gass is an expert, one that besides from writing teaches philosophy at Purdue University , got his PhD at Cornell, he understands all facets of writing and literature and could write circles around his peers it's not so much that he understands the English Language so well, it’s just he breaks all perceived notions of what a writer can do it with.This collection contains five stories that challenge your notion on what the American novel can be.
A quick review of Mrs. MeanHere is where William Gass abandons plot and shatters notions, you may think you know in the first few pages what is what, but I’ll bet the American Post Legion you are wrong.
For some indefinable reason, In the Heart of the Heart of the Country always seems like an existence formerly lived.
In my opinion, one of the best pieces of short fiction to come out of post-War America.
This book just kicked my ass. Holy fuck. I MUST reread Omensetters Luck...Mrs. Mean is a thing of absolute glory.Note: the last time I rated a book of fiction 5 stars was 2014...
The Pedersen Kid in the strange way reminded me of Erskine Caldwell.Mrs. Mean is a suburban fabliau 
The first story, "The Pedersen Kid" was my favorite.
I'm not entirely sure what happened, but I thought Gass crafted a scary, mysterious, and bizarre story.
In general Gass is undoubtedly a gifted writer and utilizes poetic language in a successful manner, even though in a few of the other stories it just feels like showing off.The title story cannot really be called a story, but rather a snarky collection of observations about "real Americans" which I at times laughed aloud reading.
I can easily recommend "The Pedersen Kid" to just about anyone, but would have many reservations in recommending the rest of this collection to most people.
Review #6 of "Year of the Review All Read Books"Gassing UpFor numerous reasons (none of them good) I've failed to read Omensetter's Luck, Gass' first book, sitting comfortably on the second floor of my local library.
This book fell to me by way of this website (either recommendation or someone elses reading list I can't remember).
The Pynchon ConnectionThe first text I ever read by William Gass, was actually his introductory note to Gaddis' The Recognitions.
It seems unlikely that I'll get to much of his work for a while, especially since I'm trying to read books I actually own this year.
I've been inspired for a few years to reread Gass's older books.
I've decided to start with In the Heart of the Heart of the Country in this edition of 2014, 1st read many years ago.I don't remember when I first read this.
It's 3 short stories framed by the novellas The Pedersen Kid to begin the volume and In the Heart of the Heart of the Country to complete it.
Certainly In the Heart of the Heart of the Country deserves the same renown and label.
I most probably didn't recognize its eminent status when I read it long ago, but I call it a masterpiece today.
La prosa de Gass deriva de Faulkner y de otros maestros norteamericanos pero en el 68 se aprecia destilada de misterio, poesía, surrealismo y amargura. Esta colección de novelas breves y relatos ya valdría la pena sólo por el enigma que propone 'El chico de Pedersen', una nouvelle en la que la corriente de conciencia describe el caos mental de un protagonista al que no se sabe muy bien qué le ocurre, pero que el lector siempre recordará por la enigmática presencia de la nieve. La traducción de Rebeca García Nieto se antoja ejemplar.
Coincidentally I just finished reading the title story in R.
Tonight!Still not getting very far very fast but I did finish that first story.
What matters to the author is the whole psychic insides of things and people.
Read the story and understand that he has indeed been the alien outsider who used them.On Mr. Wallace: "...
Mr. Gass definitely likes to get into the psychic insides if things and people.
Finished "Icicles" and "Order of Insects" but skipped the title story since I read it recently in another book.
It is Gass, but even more than Gass it feels like near average American 1950’s short fiction.
But it does make me feel less bad that Barth’s Faulknerian novel was lost to/stolen from the stacks at John Hopkins.Mrs. Mean -- A nice touch of the Gassian misanthropy we have come to treasure.Icicles -- Would be my favorite of the collection.
Gass is an evocative writer, describing people, their habits, the weather, small towns in such detail and with real attention to the range of elements that make up the thing that he is trying to narrate.
'Icicles' was the most moving story, following the daily routine of a failed estate agent whose loneliness causes him to fixate with real tenderness on the icicles on his house.
Whilst it sounds bizarre, it works so well and subtly meditates on solitude, the inability to connect with people and the fear of real intimacy.
William H. Gass es un escritor excepcional, grande, sin embargo… Y aun así, estoy seguro de que algún día volveré a su corazón, lo que no puedo decir de muchos libros.
Gass writes like I imagine people who don’t really like literature imagine everyone writes, a stream of consciousness ramble which obfuscates basic facts, tends towards little by way of narrative, and doubles back on itself endlessly.
I don’t regard any of those as being bad things, to be clear, it’s a style like any other style, sometimes I like it, sometimes I don’t, depending on its execution--though of course, in practice it’s so difficult a ‘genre’ that only enormously talented writers can manage it with even a pretense of competence.
Gass manages it.
All of the stories here are wonderful -- "Mrs. Mean," a suburban man's musings on the inner life of his next door neighbor who is abusive to her bratty brood of kids, "Icicles," which details the breakdown of failed real estate agent, due mostly to the fact that his job forces him to view everything as property, "Order of Insects," the tale of a bored, frustrated housewife who finds a sort of solace in the corpses of strange insects that she finds littering the floor of her new home, and "In the Heart of the Heart of the Country," a peek at the innner workings of a small town in Indiana and the interior life of a lonely, lovelorn man who lives there -- but the real standout is the novella that opens the collection, "The Pedersen Kid." Told from the perspective of a young boy living on a farm, the story begins with a farmhand's discovery of a neighbor boy -- the Pedersen kid of the title -- frozen nearly to death in a field during a raging blizzard.
Three hundred pages of nihilism is going to be dull no matter how intricate the writing.Gass said that “these stories emerged from my blank insides to die in another darkness.” Regardless of its lack of commercial success, and even if its grotesqueness makes it difficult to love, it's hard to deny that In The Heart of the Heart of the Country is extraordinarily well written.
However, the stories are so relentlessly ugly and cynical that I couldn't escape the feeling that it was written out of pure spite rather than a desire to engage the reader in a truly meaningful way.
It's probably a good thing (for me) that i didn't read Gass 30 years ago as I might have spent all of these years merely imitating that ebb and flow--instead I simply nod to a fellow scorer of prose measures, of tempo and tone, and offer up my gratitude for the pep talk, the feeling that I'm not alone in the pursuit of the music buried in the freeway pile-up of the English language in the telling of a tale; and that tales need to be told, tales that re-invent, break down, and rebuild anew the very concept of narrative.
Rhubarb pie, Ass Ponys, White Castle, Groucho's Farm, Limburger cheese, Ed Gein, the DesPlaines river, red tail hawks, New Glarus beer and William H. Gass.
a tragedy to see its author pass. The prose gives a sense of subdued neuroticism, more an indicting of a society than any flawed individual, and then the set of brief, sharp portraits, no louder than they need to be, and all through a concise set of stories. Look forward to the Tunnel
No he encontrado a Faulkner por ninguna parte, entiendo que lo intenta, parte de un primer cuento que tiene interés pero el siguiente me dejó más perpleja que interesada y a partir de ahí... nada. Un libro bastante hueco para lo que me habían vendido
I liked how at the end the narrator starts thinking about his penis and sex and Mr. Wallace all blue and round.
The real estate office's close, and Fender, again back at home, in his chair, thinking of his aging, his dying, body, while outside the children play.
The only story here with a female narrator/protagonist.
Also the shortest story in the collection.
I like how it starts with her talking about having just moved in, right after we've left the real estate broker in "Icicles." Nice movement there.

Icicles=no.
I am saving the Pederson Kid and the title story for last.
Long weekend coming, maybe Mrs. Mean?Update: I caved and read the last two first.
The title story and "Order of Insects" have both moved me back into my Gass love.
Perhaps I should give "Icicles" another chance?
Still "Mrs. Mean" and "The Pedersen Kid" left to go.
Final update: not quite as good as Middle C, but worth reading nonetheless.
The title story may be my favorite; it had me somehow understanding what Gass meant when he said in an interview that he writes out of anger.
Wow, so this was Gass warming himself up from the chill of Midwest anonymity, honing his chops on a buzz saw before, after, concurrent with his superb first novel.
To say these stories are stark or bleak misses their fugue state chopped rhythms more self cutting as trial before the real slash that terminates thought.
The keening perception equaled the misuse of contained thought as these characters bled all through the pages and stomped all comers.
I think he was doing scales with the misery of Diane Arbus street chaff.
I think he was cold whilst heat burned his consciousness.
I think he was trying on hate for a fit.

Each story is expertly constructed and plays out very touchingly - even the more "experimental"/wandering ones such as "Icicles" (which might be my favourite) are deeply inspiring. I honestly cannot see anything wrong with this collection; it starts strong with the marvelous novella "The Pedersen Kid" and concludes with the title story, a fragmented narrative whose real protagonist is the Midwest. Masterful storytelling, even if it requires patience.
No he leído muchos libros de relatos. Sin duda alguna, éste contiene uno de los que subo desde ya al podio de mis favoritos: En el corazón del corazón del país.No hay una sola página, un solo párrafo, una sola oración, una sola palabra o una sola letra que no merezcan la pena en todos y cada uno de los relatos de este libro.Es una obra maestra.
“The church has a steeple like the hat of a witch, and five birds, all doves, perch in its gutters.”
The mother of debuts, from my kinda American father.
The progenitor.
Let's call him the progenitor.
The two stories that most resemble one another - "Mrs. Mean" and "Icicles" - though capable of humbling most anybody, are handily the least stunning.
The Gass we have come to know is most clearly evident (outside of the windy preface) in the final, knock-out titular piece.
Gass has always been American literature's great master of the sentence.
And, I mean, seriously, of his career (I only have one fiction book to go (Cartesian Sonatas)).
And that last piece.
The titular piece.
