https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/343881.Cloudstreet
Here's how my reading of Cloudstreet progressed:First week: Ok, this is pretty good, I guess.Second week: Hm, I don't know about this.Third week: Oh god, I think I'm going to throw up.
Fourth week: Ok, I have to read my book, but I know it will make me nauseated.
I just know it.Fifth week: GOD this book is a bore.Sixth week: Hey, this is pretty good .
. Hey, this is a pretty good book .
Eighth week: Wow, this is a good book .
. SHIT, I missed my subway stop!!!End of eighth week: No, I won't put my book down.
On the one side was the 'prosperous' Lambs with their shop on the ground floor, with Oriel beating the drum to the family's marches, and Lester baking his way to a better living, with his secret ice cream recipe luring the customers from far and wide.
It was the place where the old wealthy woman died in solitude, with her nose stuck to middle C on the piano when she was eventually found.Fish was the only one who could hear middle C monotonously toggling itself through the darkness of the haunted story of the music room.
The families' regard for each other alternates between disgust and wonder, passion and forgiveness as their children and their backwater state of Western Australia grow up and away.
Winton tells the classic tale of messy, intolerable families- how each is a unique disaster and a treasure.
Winton's writing is in a class of its own.
I was struck by the universality of his themes and the recognizable nature of his characters.
These working class families would be at home in Appalachia, the timber forests of Oregon, the fishing villages of the north Atlantic Coast.
Mr. Winton must be a national treasure in Australia.
What they also shared was the misfortune that each family had a member disabled by a Traumatic event; Sam Pickles, the dad, lost four of his fingers to a barge cable while loading guano to be shipped to mainland, and Lamb’s second son Fish survived from drowning during a fishing trip, yet was left with severe brain damage.The book was about how 12 ordinary people evolved along with their neighborhood in nearly two decades , picking up their lives bit by bit from the ashes of WW2.
But here's where he grows into himself, where he unbuttons the constricting Hemingway obsession (fairly common among Australian writers in the 80s) and lets it all hang out, and where, once and for all, he eclipses that cold-hearted big-headed ex-advertising man (Carey) and becomes a kind of institution.
Since Cloudstreet Winton has become the type of writer who dives into big books without a life jacket and swims out to the deep water.
Me, I kind of tuned out around then, but I still remember Cloudstreet fondly, and recommend it to anyone interested in Australian fiction.
For one time in a million the blurb is almost a concise summary of what you will find and experience in this book. It should be a must read for all Australians who will connect with this extremely authentic portrait of post war life in Perth. It is absolutely brilliantly told, it will make you laugh and cry and even a little bit sick every now and then. Note to Mr Winton: sometimes less is more when it comes to hairy ass cracks. 5 stars, 6 if I could.
If you think your family is strange, you're probably right, but they can't be any weirder than the Pickles and the Lambs.
When Mrs. Lamb moves out of the house and pitches a tent in the yard, then everyone on Cloud Street knows things are not strictly normal in the Pickle/Lamb residence.
You're likely to feel compassion and exasperation in equal measures as you follow the changing fortunes of the Pickles and the Lambs.
You may not like every one of the Pickles and the Lambs, but they'll never bore you.
I love the way Tim Winton weaves the beauty and power of nature into his novels.
Introduction, by Philip HensherAcknowledgements--CloudstreetAfterword
There were several things about the book that really annoyed me and really removed any enjoyment I may have derived from reading it.
The absence of a complication made the book seem more a series of mundane events rather than an engaging story.
Do we really need a Where are the quotation marks?I am an Australian and proud of my identity, but Winton's personal political and spiritual bias manages to cloud (pun intended) any meaning and any indication of the true Australia and leaves just the bare events, stereotypical characters and personal opinions.
I may be worse on Australian lit than any other country on earth. I've read more books from Tajikistan than from Australia. I'll fix it eventually. This will help.
Reading Cloudstreet was a bit like stepping into an old sepia photo and then having it come to life all around you.
The book is a saga about two families, both struck by horrendous tragedies and accompanied by a range of personal demons, who move from country Oz into suburban Perth and into a house on Cloudstreet in the 1940s.
I found the characters sometimes hard to love, and on occasion I actively loathed them, but somehow they grew into me - sometimes a bit like an ingrown toenail!
Still, it’s only through awesome writing that one becomes so emotionally invested in the characters that you actually ache with their pain.
This is a great, sprawling, epic family saga that makes you glad you're a reader, just so you can live the lives of these characters for the length of the novel.
It's 20 years in the lives of the Lambs and the Pickles, who share a house in Perth, Australia.
Not that I' m comparing Tim Winton to Tolstoy, but just like "War and Peace", this novel encompasses every emotion and human foible and goodness in mankind.
Pick an adjective; it' s in this book.
You ll love and hate and grow old and die, you'll hurt and rejoice and pick yourself up and start again.
What a book!
Not to be hyperbolic, but I adore this book and I wish I could score it even more highly!
I read it for class and I spent quite a few more hours on it than most readers will, but if you enjoy it on the first read, I recommend giving it another read or so.
You can ask my girlfriend; for months afterward, I was saying, "this reminds me of that part in Cloudstreet..." and "you should really read Cloudstreet" and "about Cloudstreet..."Seriously, though, you should read it and then we should talk about it-- for hours!
There’s a smidgen of nineties-fashionable magic realism lurking around in corners of the narrative, which can make it feel a little dated; and the attempts to give a place in the novel to indigenous Australians, though well-meaning, can seem rather perfunctory and crude.The writing is just great, however: immensely vivacious and inventive and achieving its effects with great sprezzatura.
Thundery showers peppered the tentfly and above it, the mulberry shook itself like a wet dog.Another interesting paratext in the Picador Classics edition is an afterword by Winton himself, reflecting on the genesis of the book a couple of decades after writing it.
I thank heavens I didn't give up on this one, having started it a couple of years ago and let it drift onto some nominal pile of 'not sure why I've put this down' books.
Last week it got its second chance when I took it to Berlin figuring it would either get read, or get left.
In fact my nose was scarcely out of it.
The book's 25 years old - there is probably a generation of people who could learn something for our time by reading it.Rest here: https://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpre...
Bible believing folks, Lester and Oriel are the parents of a ‘mob’ of youngins, three boys, Mason (Quick), Samson (Fish), and Lon, and three girls, twins Hattie and Elaine and lastly, Red. The favorite of the whole family is Fish, who is a teaser, setting up people for the bad end of a joke, and being loved, not in spite of it, but because of it, his energy lighting up the whole family.
There is a profound transformation in the way that the Pickles and Lambs interact over the years that is the beating heart of this story; a story of family.I want to channel the character of Oriel.

It started out so strong, I really loved everything about it and couldn't wait to get to know each of the characters in more detail.
By the middle of the book, however, I found it irritating and I wanted to spend more time with the characters, I wasn't making any connection to them anymore.And then by the end of the novel as characters started coming back together in more ways than one, I found myself engrossed again and not wanting to put it down.
Lamb and Pickles?
The story is about two very dysfunctional Australian working class families...the Lamb's and the Pickles' during the 1940's-60's.This story evokes such a wide range of emotions from the reader...often in quick succession...that it is at times quite draining.
It is a very emotive and thought provoking tale of two families struggling to get by in times of incredible hardship whilst also facing the every day demands of survival in some very challenging and varied sets of circumstances.Tears and laughter.
I finished reading this a couple of days ago and am still feeling the murky, underlying strangeness of Cloudstreet and Winton’s prose.
He captures the human condition so well and the connectivity between the larger world and every tiny, insignificant one of us.
This is the story of two down and out families weaved with an ever present inexplicability that mimics, perhaps, the entirely unexplainable nature of human beings.
Cloudstreet is all of our childhood homes.
It's a nostalgia for a time and place forever lost and out of reach; a time that never was.
These people hurt forever.
We all join up somewhere in the end.3.5 stars.
The author's writing is superb, I was especially impressed with the fact that he can use very different writing styles in the same story.
Although I grew to love the characters, especially Oriel and Lester, it took me quite a while to get into the story.
I will definitely try more books by this author as I now have a better idea of what to expect - this is not a quick, easy read, but something that you need to take your time with.
Those words are the best I can come up with to depict this book.
Nevertheless, by the end of the novel you care for the characters.
There is moreover another theme to the book – the strength of families.
It is definitely a total immersion course in Australian life, at least those of the working class after WW2.
Through his clever intonations you can more easily guess the meaning of expressions and words foreign to those of us who are not Australian.
I found this kind of corny, but I guess it had to be drawn into a book about Australian life.
Over twenty years the Pickles and Lamb families go from an unhappy arrangement living together to one happy calamatous tribe who despite their differences have such a strong sense of family.The story itself moves at a million miles an hour and can be quite difficult to keep up with.
While i found Fish facinating with the fact he was lost in his own world, one that has the pig talking, the love of water despite it being the thing that almost killed him and the spinning knife.I must admit to start with a wasn't to sure about the book and took me a little while to get into.
Just the viewing of the lives of two families that coexist in the same house/back garden.After finishing this book I was with a sense that this story would have had more resonance with me if I was Australian, but due to being Irish there was a lot of things that I fundamentally struggled to understand about post war Perth – which has set me on a little tangent of looking into Australian history as I have realized a shocking lack of knowledge on the subject!
Why did it take me so long to get to this, and why isn't it better known (or is it?)? It's gorgeously poetic and chock full of characters who are memorable in name (Quick Lamb, Hat Lamb, Fish Lamb) and desire. The writing really is unlike anything I'd read recently -- so muscular and Australian. The book is huge, but it you sort of hurtle through it, it has so much momentum -- it's impressive to see that kind of momentum come from the rush of pure language, with so little reliance on plot.
I felt it to be a somewhat depressing book most of the way, until, surprisingly, the ending!What I liked:*The book is written in short sections from each of the characters viewpoints.
I never would have dreamed that either would become the people they were at the end of the book, but Winton brings them along gradually and credibly.What I didn't care for:*I don't like the switching around of tenses.
It's almost grand, but a good compromise, he thinks, between pooftery High Church and shoebox Baptist.So, while impressed with Winton's creative writing ability, characterization, overall, I'm not blown away by the book, but am very glad I stuck with it and finished it.
So many things worthy about this book. Style. Content. Characters. Pace. And everything else that makes spending your reading time discovering the Pickles and the Lambs both memorable and worthy. Way worthy. But the secret to that special quality seems to me not to lie in all that, but in the soul of the writer. Beautiful and free and bubbling with the finest aspects of life. Its a book to return to. For the sheer beauty of the writing. For its memorable characters, whom you love and care for. And for that house, breathing. And that pig, talking.Officially a favourite.
#inlaws #reviews #othersA throughly immersive read which can leave you confused at times but also puts you right in the centre of the experience that the characters are going through.
I felt it was a little overlong and I'm always a bit put off when books have been hailed as "classics" - it makes me a bit over critical in all honesty.
Being from Western Australia, there was a lot of the language I could really relate to - stuff my mum used to say that I haven't heard for years!
Even though it was a bit over ambititious there was a nice tone throughout, it was never boring and I felt it had a big heart.
It's a special book in a lot of ways, and I don't think I've read anything quite like it :)
This is a re-read (listen)for my bookclub. I loved it then, I loved it now! Tim Winton is an amazing author..I think he is either loved or hated. The story revolves around 2 families living in close proximity with each other (within the same large house), and their lives for over 20 years. Quick and Rose, their young teenage lives, first jobs, then their adult lives...and both their families all around them, constantly. It is definitely worth a read/listen.
