https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/971588.The_Dutch_Shoe_Mystery
The reason: most books are like this, and most particularly, those of the mystery genre.
Ellery Queen builds a deliciously enticing puzzle, and succeeds in breathing life into his characters (of which he is one).
Though I usually disparage trying to solve the mystery in a detective novel, I was moved to read parts of the novel over again, looking for evidence to support a pet theory.
The culprit must be a substantial character in the story so that the reader has some basis for inferring culpability based on personality and motive.
What can I say, it's an Ellery Queen mystery! A a satisfying fair-play whodunnit with all the clues, characters, and a challenge to the reader to figure it out (I got it right!). The murder in this one takes place in a hospital, and initially everyone - doctors, nurses, staff, visitors, even patients - are suspect. Very entertaining and readable, a page-turner. Not the best Ellery Queen I've read (that was The Cat of Many Tails), but good enough for 4.9 stars.
Clever, but a bit old-fashioned detective story.
Third book in the Ellery Queen mystery series read.
Also, once explained, the mystery felt easy to solve.
But I couldn't feel cheated for long, because I realise that in the title itself, the authors present an obvious clue, one which I disregarded because, fair enough, I was engrossed in the story, and it's rare that I solve a case prematurely, in cold blood.The authors do like some variety in their books.
But though Ellery Queen stories are of about the same quality and regularity, I' giving them my -relatively- new found discernment.
Published in 1931, The Dutch Shoe Mystery is the third book in the Ellery Queen series, jointly written by cousins, Frederic Dannay and Manfred Lee, under the pen-name of Ellery Queen.
The series was considered one of the finest examples of a ‘fair play’ mysteries, with the reader presented with all of the clues available to the fictional detective so that they might solve it for themselves.
And the investigation soon reveals plenty of people present with the motive to murder the victim.
Nonetheless, an interesting read for the puzzle and challenge of solving it.
It reminds me of Dupin that by cold logical analysis, there is no mystery that cannot be unravelled.
In 'American Gun Mystery'too, they have excelled in once again designing an intricate puzzle and then unravelling it with an exceptional skill, bit by bit, leaving no loose strings lying anywhere.Some may say, that reading the book is more of a chore than pleasure and to them I answer that its the definition of pleasure that's in question here.
But for the rest like me who marvel at a seemingly insoluble puzzle and in the beauty of its resolution, Ellery Queen is a MUST READ!!!
All this right under the nose of Ellery Queen, who has come to observe the operation personally!Suspects abound, both within the hospital staff and from the family of the dear lady.
And as is standard for all Ellery Queen stories, the clues are presented throughout the story to allow the reader an opportunity to solve the crime just before Ellery provides The Explanation.As usual, the book was a delight to read and puzzle over.
This is the third Ellery Queen stories published, but I have found that they do not need to be read in order to be enjoyed.
One hallmark of the Ellery Queen books is the logical presentation of facts that explain what happened, why it happened and who the villain is.
The solutions are not easy but they do make sense when explained.
In this book in the series, the explanation is plausible but the scene of explanation is drawn out.
I got bored with all the minute detail Ellery went into to explain how he reached his conclusions.
In other words, this story got a bit too OCD for my taste.
I just hope this minute attention to detail is not emphasized in all the remaining stories in the series.
Ellery didn't have his usual sassy spotlight through this novel. It was quite a complex case since it was placed in a busy hospital which makes it harder for the writer to guide the reader in what seemed to me a rather less enjoyable plot. Still, all loose ends came to meet and the case was closed in a very Ellerish way.
Another Impossible whodunit from the writing team of EQ. This time the setting is a hospital with the victim being a wealthy patient who is found to be dead just before undergoing surgery.I caught at least half of the clues (or "clews" in the 1920s spelling) but still failed to identify the killer. Drats.
1,5
In this series of reviews I am trying to understand what made these books so popular at the time they were published, why the trajectories of their popularity were so different and why the modern reader receives them so differently than did their initial audience.Two authorial choices unite these series are the nature of the New Yorks in which they were set and the structures used by the authors allow the detective access to sites, evidence and witnesses and the reader access to the thoughts and actions of the detective.First, the nature of their New Yorks:It is difficult to keep in mind while reading the early works of Queen and Vance that they were published within a few years of Hammett’s The Maltese Falcon and Stout’s Fer-de-Lance.
If this weren't an 'Ellery Queen' novel (I bought it at a used book store for a buck), it'd be in the trashcan after page one.PACE - 1: It's only at the end when one realizes the entire book is much ado about nothing, really.PLOT - 2: A patient is murdered while on the operating table in an anteroom, the doctors are getting ready to move her into the operating theatre.
It's cold, this novel, sterile.CHARACTERS - 2: I like Inspector Queen and his son.
Foul!!To provide the murderer's motive in the last sentence--especially when you're broadcasting it's open solvability pages prior--is unconscionable.I agree that the solution is attainable, but it didn't make sense until the end. I did successfully pin the accomplice, however.
A very thrilling mystery by son and father Queen with the unmistakable presence of Djuna as well! Loved reading this thriller during a trip, as it was so easy to follow and the plot kept me interested all the way to a surprising final.Maria Carmo,Lisbon 19 March 2018.
Qui è molto abile Ellery Queen a disseminare indizi promettenti e a costruire una storia coinvolgente, per poi svelare il mistero e spiegare in modo assolutamente semplice come sono andate le cose. Un particolare dell'assassino l'avevo intuito, ma non chi fosse esattamente.
A cada novo livro deste autor, parece está a esmorecer.Para grande pena mim, era dos meus preferidos.
Estoy aprendiendo mucho de Ellery, como para el libro 15 adivino al asesino antes que él jaja
Maybe I'm just "Queened" out, but this just didn't do it for me.
2,5Un poco decepcionante mi aventura con este autor y personaje, no encontré muy entretenido el relato, mas bien lento y esquemático, a Ellery Queen no le encontré el encanto.Mi reseña completa aquí:http://perezosa69.blogspot.cl/2017/02...
Quindi ogni volta che mi imbatto nel investigatore dandy e con pince-nez (e l’ispettore Richard Queen con i baffoni) mi par che sia un personaggio completamente diverso.
So every time I run into the investigator and dandy with pince- nez ( and Inspector Richard Queen with a mustache!) it seems to me to be a completely different character.Compared with the last novel read (The Player on the Other Side) this is definitely better.
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
In the other Queen mysteries I've read to date (The Spanish Cape Mystery and The Door Between) there was time to get to know and become invested with the characters before the murder and mayhem begins.
The opposite happens here - the murder occurs and then the characters are fleshed out.
I spent some time rereading and then thinking about the mystery as I went about my daily tasks.
All of the clues were there, so no foul on the part of Queen.In the end it was a fun read and a clever brainteaser.
One of the things I enjoy about the Ellery Queen mysteries is the picture of contemporary life in the late 1920's and early 1930's.
Life has certainly changed.
The majority of the book takes place in a hospital.
Apparently everyone smoked, even in the hospital!
As with all the Queen novels with Queen as the sleuth I thoroughly enjoyed this.
The early Queen novels gave a break in the book when all the clues had been laid out and queried the reader if they had figured it out.
I wonder when the spelling of internes and clews changed?
Finally figured out my main problem with early Ellery Queen tales ---- the overly wordy solutions at the end.
This story centers on a wealthy women who is killed in a hospital.
A small group of people are again the main suspects with some random other characters.
The characters are as usual very well defined in quick descriptions.
As with the Rex Stout and Ngaio Marsh series, Ellery Queen is a dated run.
But overall you see a different type of story with a lot more detail and not as much violence and erotica as with modern detective fiction.
This is only the 2nd Ellery Queen book I have read (listened on audiobook).
The first one I listened to was written in the 1950's.
This book was only the 3rd book written in the 30's.
The first book I read (Cat of Many Tales) was very good.
This book was so plodding, so dry, that I had to frequently reverse the mp3 player because I would start day dreaming instead of listening.
In this book a wealthy woman is strangled to death in a hospital while she is in a coma awaiting an operation.
Ellery and his his father, who is a high ranking police detective, sleuth the case.
I remember reading some Ellery Queen mysteries as a teenager and loved them - they were witty, clever and entertaining.
Now 40 years or so later I thought I would try them again, reading them in order.
This is the third in the series and sees Queen trying to solve the murder of a wealthy old woman in the Dutch Hospital.
A key clue is a shoe.
Hence the Dutch Shoe mystery.
I am hoping that the mysteries I remember fondly were from later in the Queen canon and the standard improves later in the series.
Another good plot, but one that is easy to crack.The snuff-taking, thick-skulled bully of a Richard Queen is not very endearing.
Apart from browbeating people (usually ordinary citizens) he does little.
He is just a roughneck in uniform.The authors try to hype up the son (Ellery Queen), and that too is unconvincing.
He comes across as an affected show-off, spouting silly, contrived literary phrases that just don't go with the situations he finds himself in.This combination of protagonists who are not particularly likable is perhaps why Ellery Queen isn't ranked alongside Agatha Christie or Conan Doyle.
This, despite very good plots.
I have been attempting to read the Ellery Queen novels in order but this one nearly broke me, in spite of being considerably shorter than its predecessors. This was partly because I felt the characters were flat and lifeless and also because the investigation has precious few reveals from chapter-to-chapter. The biggest problem for me was that I guessed much of the solution early and spent what felt like an age waiting for Ellery to catch up to me whereas the previous books at least managed to surprise me.Read more detailed thoughts in my review on Mysteries Ahoy!
The patient is wheeled into the operating room only to be found she is already dead. The prime suspect, the surgeon, is also murdered.The plot was good, the investigation needed some concentration and even then the murderer turned out to be a complete surprise and was for me not ever in the running. Thankfully the final chapter is titled Explanation because one was definitely needed. It revealed a very clever plot and modus operandi. The clues were there all along but so very subtle. Such a clever amateur sleuth is Ellery Queen.
