https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19498.Moonraker_s_Bride
It's the late 1890's, and seventeen year old Lucy Waring has lived in a mission home in China and has been immersed in Chinese culture all her life.
Lucy speaks English (though less well than Chinese) but has no real knowledge of British culture and considers herself and all other foreigners ugly, because, you know, those unattractive round eyes.
Nobody knows what this poetic riddle means, but everyone is convinced that some kind of valuable treasure awaits the person who unravels it.Her co-prisoner, a young British man, has some money, and helps Lucy get out of prison with a little well-placed bribery.
The kind of romantic suspense book that used to be so popular 30-40 years ago, and now can't seem to be replicated by today's crop of writers.
Fans of either writer should enjoy this foray into the story of Lucy Waring, a young woman raised in China during the turn of the century.
Gripping, intense, romantic and altogether a great gothic read, I adored Moonraker's Bride and look forward to reading more by Brent.***Fun facts:1.
The name of the heroine, Lucy Waring, was also the name of the heroine from Mary Stewart's gothic novel, This Rough Magic.
I liked her just as much as the Lucy Waring in This Rough Magic, (I read TRM and Moonraker's Bride within a day of each other or I'd never have noticed, unless I read Hannah's review) I Love Lucy, her Chinese ways, sweet manners and how she was determined to do what was right, not what would please everyone else.
What I didn't like was that the beginning and end were short, while the middle was long.
Because, yes the hero in this book is like the Hero in A Tale of Two Cities, I couldn't help but draw the comparison.
3 1/2 starsNUTSHELL :A young English woman is raised in China in a missionary home for girl orphans.
Its all there.I really really love Madeleine Brent's books but I didn't feel that Moonrakers was up to the standard of either The Long Masquerade or Golden Urchin .
The bits in England were ok (not boring but not exciting either) and the ending a little too predictable.
*sigh*I'll tell you what I LOVED though.
And Lucy's friendship with young Matthew and Mr. Marsh was very sweet too.My favorite parts were in China but alas it was a small part of the book.
I love how this author, really a man, sets his books in exotic locations and somehow works England into the story as well.
The head of the mission is very sick and dies, leaving Lucy all alone to care for the girls.
I don't want to give anything away, but Lucy ends up sailing for England.
There are some hilarious scenes in England, as well as some suspenseful ones.
One of the funnier scenes involves Lucy telling the family she is living with why she believes she was brought to England.
After a bit, the story moves back to China and the action really picks up.
I liked it more than Tregaron's Daughter which I also couldn't stop reading. Adventure and romance set in China and England around the beginning of the 20th century. I have 3 more books by this author waiting and then what?
If you want a book that keeps your attention, this is it.
I read this book over a weekend and could hardly stand to put it down long enough to eat.
Lucy is an English orphan in China around the turn of the 20th century.
Blundering her way through unfamiliar customs, dealing with the family she's been stuck with, and courting a man whose own parents don't seem to trust him, all leads Lucy to unlock a mystery no one else has been able to solve.This is my absolute favorite Madeleine Brent book.
It's the perfect weekend read.
The pitch on the back of this book states, "The stranger she married that night was gone by morning. But for the rest of her days, she would be Moonraker's Bride." Now, who could resist a story like that? Moonraker's takes place in China right before the Boxer Rebellion. This is an amazing book well worth the time invested in reading it.
Really liked this way back in high school when my grandma recommended it (and back then I probably would have given it 4 Stars) so I'd like to read it again to see if I still like it. 😀

The heroine always has an unusual background outside of ordinary society.
She is usually thrust into that society and the story becomes a "fish out of water" story, and then usually it becomes incumbent upon her to return to her origins to solve the mystery/rescue or become reunited with the hero.
Off the top of my head, some of her heroines have been circus performers, raised by aborigines, English girl raised in China (Moonraker's Bride),half-Caste Indian girl raised in Tibet, Daughter of a notorious Jewel Thief, A young English girl living in a Paris Garrett with a shocking past, etc.
This book had pretty much every element that I really love in a good book: exotic settings, a strong female lead character, several great twists in the plot, a title that makes you think while you're reading the book and try to figure out the reason behind it, triumph over adversity, mystery, romance, adventure.
Usually I think I'm doing good to get in two or three of those elements from a book, but Moonraker's Bride has all!
I'd never heard of this book before and I guess it's out of print.
Many thanks to my awesome sister-in-law, Bonnie, for introducing this lovely book to me.
I came across this novel in a book called "A Gothic Treasury". It has elements of Gothic, yet lots of adventure. In the 1899 China of the "Boxer" rebellion, no less. The twists and turns are fun and the characters are almost all beautifully done. The only drawback, for me, is that it was a condensed version and that always makes me feel feel as it I might have missed interesting details. I might read the unabridged version again - it really did seem just a little bit a bit too short.
One of the very best Gothic romance novels I have ever read. And, believe it or not, this one was written by a man! XD ! I read this book when I was 16, which is a great age to wholeheartedly enjoy a Gothic romance. Lucy Waring, like all Brent's heroines, is simply splendid and hilarious. She is my favorite thing about this book.
Moonraker's Bride was my first Gothic experience- read it when I was 12. I had enjoyed reading up to that point in my young life, but MB developed a deep and passionate love for books that has stayed with me since. It is THE book for me.
I look forward to exploring more of the author's work.Specifics:-- Though the Chinese setting was not a special attraction to me when I selected this book, I ended up finding it an interesting and well-written element of the novel.
And by the time it was all perfectly clear, I was thoroughly hooked on the romance and wouldn't have dreamed of stopping reading, even if the mystery had been tidied up chapters earlier!--  My new literary crush is (view spoiler)[Nick Sabine (hide spoiler)].
Funny how easy it is to do that...)--  (view spoiler)["Never change."  ~~swoon~~ ;o)  (Yet at the same time...
Very satisfying--Gothic enough that one can't be completely sure who to trust or what their motives are until near the end, yet romantic enough to satisfy. I know little of Chinese/British history to speak to the accuracy of setting, but I enjoyed it; it's defnintely out of the norm. The romance is clean and sweeet and reminded me just a touch of LM Montgomery's novel The Blue Castle. 4.5 stars
My first thoughts after finishing this:This was so sweet.I can't believe it's actually written by a man.Though I'm not saying for one moment that men can't write as good as women;they can,and they've proved it numerous times,too. It's just hard to associate sweet with men.
A good gallop of a read. What’s more it was a gift made of a favourite book; so that’s special. 😀
The historical romance genre has never been a particular favorite of mine, but that may be because I’ve read the wrong type (i.e., too many bonnets.) Madeleine Brent—otherwise known as Peter O’Donnell, British mystery writer—caught my attention right away with teenage Lucy and her struggling mission home in China.
This is the first Brent/O’Donnell novel I’ve read, but it shouldn’t be the last.Lucy Waring is a unique heroine: English, but orphaned so young in China that she grew up generally thinking of herself as Chinese.
I'll always, always love these kind of books - the ones that play off romance and mystery while being set in an interesting period of time and culture, the ones that remind me of classics like Green Gables...but a little more grown up.(What adds to the awesome - China!
:D)This was a no-heavy thinking, feel-good, read - at its essence, a romance, even with it being set in China, exotic China.
Sometimes, a girl just needs a good romance fix.
As for the characters, I loved the main set immensely.
The next day, she's a widow.She returns to England, attempting to put her life back together, but the shadows of the past quickly catch up with her.This is a great gothic romantic suspense set against the backdrop of China and England at the turn of the century, culminating in the great Boxer rebellion in China.The author's narration makes the characters rise to life before the readers eyes, sweeping us into a fascinating tale of romance, intrigue, horror, and mystery.Lucy is the typical female of that time.
She's English but she's grown up Chinese.
She thinks like a Chinese and she behaves like one too even though she speaks English well.
Looks English but acts Chinese.
I found the added details of the way Lucy's brain works interesting.
For instance, she has round eyes, which is ugly to the almond-shaped Asians and so she thinks she is ugly while the English find her big eyes attractive.Lucy's very brave and responsible.
Yet in a way you're a mystery to me.“When Lucy goes to England she's a fish out of water but at least she finds friends here and there.
I cannot believe how much I loved this book.
I have a soft spot for well-written gothic a la 1960's when they had editors and educated writers and this was just more than I could have ever hoped for.
WHAT A BOOK!!!!!!
What I loved most about it was the strength of the female character.
I genuinely liked her.
REALLY LIKED HER.
Every time I thought the book would fall into some cliched trapping, it surprised me.
What a beautiful world to realize that Madeleine Brent (yes, I know this is really a man) wrote at least 9 more books!
This book was recommended to me by my friend, Angie C.
I do not really like romance novels, but this had an element of mystery, intrigue, and suspense.
So I liked it.
I loved the riddle, I suspected the hiding place of the treasure early in the book.
I was confused about who the true evil guy was.
Although that is what the author wanted me to be, confused.
I was hoping that Nick would be the good guy.
Surprise, twists, and intrigue keep me reading.
Toward the end of the book every chapter ended with, "I have to know more."
This book is no longer in print so good luck finding it. My sweet sister-in-law gave it to me, as I do a "book club" with my sisters-in-law. This story is so great! So different from anything I've ever read, very refreshing.The writing is a bit more simplistic than what I'm used to, but it didn't bother me, considering it WAS written in 1973.If you can get your hands on a copy of this book, I highly suggest you read it!
if you're keeping a list of delightful books for both you and your daughter to read, add this one to the list. It's listed as a romance book but I think it would be much more appropriately labeled as a heroic adventure book. It has action and history and mystery. I spent time on wiki researching the boxer rebellion and anytime I spend extra time learning about historical context is a sign of an engaging read.
Great little book with a bit of everything (adventure, mystery, intrigue, history, heroics and a refreshingly squeaky clean underlying romance). The actual writing was more straightforward and less poetic than I like but the character development and story were good enough to keep me glued. It was fun to find out after the fact that the author is a man and Madeleine Brent is a pen name. He could have fooled me (he did!) A fun start to summer reading.
Mám ji na poličce už strašně dlouho a i když se mezi ostatními díly vyjímá asi jako pěst na oko, tak ji nedokážu z poličky odebrat :) Srdcovka mého dospívání už jen proto, že to není červená knihovna, jak by se mohlo zdát :) Parádní děj s několika nečekanými zvraty, přičemž mezi ten největší řadím fakt, že jsem teprve dnes zjistila, že autorčino jméno funguje jen jako pseudonym pro mužského autora... Některé knihy nás prostě nepřestanou překvapovat ani po 10 letech :)
I love Madeleine Brent. However, this book has got to be up there with one of my favorites. It is magnificent- the scope is astounding. I also happen to love stories that incorporate the backdrop of tumultuous events, which, in this case, was the Boxer Rebellion. I cannot recommend it highly enough.
