https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/242757.Are_You_in_the_House_Alone_
Finally, about half way through the book, Gail is raped and beaten by her best friend's boyfriend and the town's golden boy, Phil.
The book starts with Gail and her boyfriend skinny dipping, and there's a few discussions between Gail and her mother about how she's been to Planned Parenthood to get birth control and how Steve and her are sleeping together.
The only thing that this book has that others do not is frank discussion of a young woman's sexuality and her right to identify as a sexual being without being harangued for it.Yes, it's difficult to read at times, especially during and after the rape scene.
If I had children, I wouldn't want them to read this book, even if they were in high school.
Half-way through the book, Gail is beaten and raped by Phil Lawver, her best friend's boyfriend and the son of the most powerful family in town.
The police try to make Gail seem like a slut and Phil seem like the victim.
The rest of the book is about her trying to cope with this tragedy, which is even harder when Phil roams the streets.
Gail eventually goes back to school, but Phil harasses her on her walk home.
Before the end of the book, Phil attacks again.
good thing richard peck had an idea of what to do, and executed it well.at the same time viewing the entitlement issues of small town-high school dynamics and relationships paired with a suspensefully uncomfortable undertone, this book takes a hard look at some tough issues.
if the first 2/3 of the book is the mystery, the last 1/3 is the genius of the author for taking that mystery and making it feel tangible and real.though a bit clumsy in parts, especially with the veiled conclusion at the end, are you in the house alone was a thrill ride for the first part and a thoughtful pondering for the last part which made for a unique and relevant book.
Third, it shows the process of what happens after a girl has been raped (during the hospital proceedings), and finally, it offers the perspective that some will fight for justice (Gail knows the realities of the situation – that Phillip will probably escape prosecution).
As in Speak by Laurie Halse Anderson, there is no real punishment for Phil, so there is still a resounding lack of justice.
As for actual themes I would develop, I would ask students to consider prejudices against females (the concept of a girl deserving or asking to be raped and the comment that Gail is a slut for not wearing a bra).
Sixteen-year-old Gail is living the upper-class suburban life when she begins receiving terrifying phone calls and notes in her locker. And the calls keep coming. When she's attacked by the town's golden boy everyone refuses to take action against him and his powerful family. A frightening drama that deals with heavy teen issues and the idea of justice (or lack thereof) from bestselling author Richard Peck
I love books were I feel as if I am in the character's shoes.
*Spoiler* But anyway, everything comes to a fast and terrible halt when her best friend's boyfriend rapes her.
Gail's best friend (cant remember the little conformist name at the moment), is a true definition of trying to fit in.
I'm not sure if she went with him because her mother didn't like him (I don't know why, it wasn't like he was an exciting person.
Even when the new girl got raped too by the same person, it's like they didn't care.
I still don't understand why the people acted like it never happened.
PUBLISHING INFO: Viking Juvenile, 11/1976REISSUED: 2000, Puffin BooksGENRE: YA Contemporary SuspenseSETTING: Connecticut, USAMY GRADE: BMY THOUGHTS/SPOILERS : I'd never heard of this book before, not until last year when I watched the 9/1978 CBS made for television movie on Youtube. I finally bought the book and received it a few days ago. It's only 160 pages long and needed to be at least 100 pages longer.The book didn't really seem dated at all. The plotline was almost completely believable. S
The movie takes place in California, not Connecticut.I think Kathleen Beller did a pretty good acting job and didn't look too old for the part at twenty-two years old.
Steve was played by Scott Colomby, who was a younger-looking twenty-six at the time.The part I mentioned earlier where a girl was raped and beaten, in the film they showed a girl getting the same anonymous note saying that she's being watched.
Extremely interesting Y/A book about rape and attitudes toward the victim prevalent as late as the 1970's, and important issues we need to remember about women's rights.
Gail gets more and more scared and finally she's attacked and raped by a boy from a very prominent family in town.
Even then, the boy's family is left to deal with their problem privately and it's not at all clear what they've done with him--various rumors say he's in a private clinic, he's in a private school where he's the star squash player, etc.Anyone reading this book today would come up with obvious questions--why wasn't a DNA test done being foremost.
I remember reading this after the Blossom Culp books and being surprised by how different the tone was.
I'm thinking now that the author must have heard of something like this happening or even known the person.
The main suspect in the Natalee Holloway disappearance was convicted of another girl's murder.This is not an easy book to read because it's so realistic.
If you've read the Blossom books, you know that he writes smart, strong female characters who prevail over men who try to keep them down.
Unfortunately, that's not always the way it happens in real life, and that's not the way it happens in this book.
Rated as a “young adult” book I feltthe subject was violent, but could open discussion on a difficult topic.Taking place in the mid 70’s in a small quiet CT town, 16 year old Gail isthreatened with sexually explicit notes in her school locker and mysterioushang ups when she answers the phone (she is always along in the house orbabysitting when they happen).
While this was a common thought of rape victims before “date rape” became commonplace,the books dwells on silence/avoidance as a means to forget what happened.
Believe it or not years ago everything wasn’t broadcast and always common knowledge.
Gail, the narrator, is a high school junior who is harrassed, first with prank calls while she is babysitting, then with creepy notes in her locker, and finally with a violent attack.
I enjoyed the story, but it was especially interesting to see how things have changed since 1976.The book is shocking to read now, not because it is graphic - the disturbing elements of the book are not described in detail - but because of the characters' attitudes towards class and especially rape.
When the policeman interviews Gail, his tone is appalling, implying that there is no such thing as rape, only girls who tease and change their minds.
The threats escalate until her best friend’s steady boyfriend, son of the most prestigious folks in town, stalks her and ultimately rapes her and beats her brutally.
No one in town will acknowledge this young man’s horrific behavior because there is no proof, and her father loses his job.
Isn’t he entitled to anything he wants?
At the end, after the second attack, he is whisked away to a private boarding school.
The girl pays all: she loses her boyfriend, her best friend, all popularity and acceptance at school.
Her dad loses his job.
I loved how the author portrayed rape and its effects in this book.
If the book is too graphic for young ones, check it out thoroughly, don't blame the book for your mistake.
And we live in a world full of information, so even if you didn't check the book itself out thoroughly, a few keystrokes on Google will give you hundreds of full synopses and subject clarifications for this novel.
I first read this book back when I was about 13-14, I'm not sure what the reason was though.
Though the book did seem a bit frustrating when I read it, since the guy basically got away with it because he's the popular guy, but let's face it, that's the unfortunate and sad reality, even today (look at the swimmer guy who raped an unconscious girl and got minimal time because it'd ruin his future).It shows that not much has changed and something seriously should be changed about this.
"Are you in the House Alone?" is so well written.
Richard Peck is a talented author who eliminates any unnecessary words and uses phrases that flow so well.
I was immediately drawn into this horrifying story and couldn't even put the book down.
Gail is the target of a psychotic rapist who is following her every move.
When she starts finding threatening notes in her locker, Gail is at a loss about what to do.
There is mature content in this book, but adolescents can learn so much about what to do or not to do if found in a similar situation.
i think this book was pritty good it is about this girl her name is Gail Osburne she is a high schoo
I was surprised at the grimness of this book’s message. The inability of adults and the legal system to assist Gail is quite disturbing. Peck pacts a brutal message into such a short little story. As in many older YA novels the slang is quite dated, although my main complaint with the novel was the final message. It seemed that Peck advocated not fighting back when sexually assaulted. While I appreciated his attempt to warn teenagers about what may happen to victims in this situation, I was rather annoyed that Gail’s attacker suffered no consequences.
Okay, where to start... This book was great story, but the conclusion sucked and there was no justice for the rape victim. Such a pity. I was hoping for something good out of my book report, but no cigar. If you don't like books with no happy endings this book isn't for you.
I recommend this book to people who like thrillers. I did not like this book because i didn't think there was enough horror.
it was creepy. I got scared when my parents left me home alone. lol
I would give this book a three out of five star rating, because there are some parts in this book like the rape scene, but other excellent things like the description.
In this book, Richard Peck did an excellent job with the description of the characters and the plot line in the book.
As told to us by Richard this book has plenty of strengths to choose from in this book that make it so good to read.
Even though Richard Peck did a good job of description in this book, I really did not enjoy it as much as I thought I would as a reader.
I would rate this a three out of five because this book didn't pull my into the novel like other books would.
I love mystery and suspense, but this book didn’t fulfill my expectations in this particular genre.
This book was frustrating for me to read because they didn’t believe it was Phil who commited the crime.
Gail wanted everyone to believe her, but they didn’t.
In this book, they use a writing skill called “Show don't tell”, which is when the writer uses description of the scene, character, etc.
I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in mystery or suspense.
Peck does not show us any graphic details of the rape; instead, his focus is on high school student Gail's simple and endearing teen perspective about her life and relationships.
This is a compelling narrative that reveals the faults of others, those who elevate her rapist's social status to justify his hideous act while Gail suffers the unnecessary emotional and mental agony from it.Peck wants us to discuss things openly, to reach out to the victims and to believe them.Themes: silence, isolation, betrayal, teen relationships, social class
Richard Peck is a living legend who does amazing work, so I’ve been reading through his oeuvre.
Peck does a good job of placing the reader in the shoes of the character – without going into gory details, he conveys completely her fear and her pain.
Reading this book was excruciating, but I mean that as a compliment – it’s supposed to be.It’s frustrating because even though this book is forty years old, it’s still all-too-relevant.
The ending is unsatisfying, but it’s supposed to be, because these stories so often don’t turn out well in the end.
In all this debate about why young women would not come forward when assaulted, I tried to look up this book by Richard Peck, and was saddened to find out he passed away in May of this year (2018).
If one man can have the sensitivity and compassion to really understand this issue, then I have to imagine that most men also know the score.The premise is a tale as old as time: Wealthy male assaults & rapes a girl and gets away with it.
All women are pretty well trained not to report because we don't want the stigma of being called sluts and being told we asked for it.
The whole time I was reading I was waiting for the horror aspect of this book.
I thought the notes and phone calls would be scarier but they weren't.
While the author describes the notes as being vulgar and sickening to read, I found that just describing them did not make me feel anything.
The phone calls also didn't make me feel anything at all.
I expected to get chills and not want to stay home alone every again, but I just got angry during the whole book, and was very disappointed at the end.
I'm very sorry that we have lost this wonderful writer. Here he tackles a difficult topic with clear eyes and a sensitive touch. I had for years thought this was a horror story. It is much more down to earth than that. I was glad for the strong central character and the thoughtful way that he handled the rape itself. I hope that things have gotten better since this was written, but I'm not sure that is so. A good look at a hard subject.
Difficult subject matter...and has a rather unfulfilling conclusion, since the perpetrator ( a serial rapist) goes free and unpunished. It would have been better to have justice prevail, however, I suppose this ending is similar to what many women have had to go through. My heart breaks for all those who've had to endure this.
This book was not what I was expecting! It took a dark turn, but I couldn't put it down. It was heart-wrenching and something that was way ahead of its time. Brava to the author for such a powerful story!
I read this book in high school and enjoyed it. My daughter bought it and I wanted to read it . It about a high school girl, Gail. Its about her life and the things she had to go through. This Y/A and Thriller is a must read.
