https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76955.The_Missing_Chums
A great Hardy Boys adventure featuring bank robbers, a kidnapping and lots of fun and adventure on the Sleuth. One of our favourites featuring Chet and Tony!
Yikes. Even allowing for the five-plus decades that have passed since this was published, this is just a mess. It's shocking that the Hardy Boys made it to even one more adventure, never mind hundreds and hundreds. I had some occasional ironic fun with how the times they have a-changed (sure boys, let's let you get kidnapped by the bank robbers), but there's very little to recommend here. Leave your fond memories of Frank and Joe in the past.
The Hardy boys attempt to find two missing friends who disappeared while driving down the coast. A great adventure tale from the mid-twentith century without the modern profusion od drugs, profanity, violence, and sex.
A Hardy Boys character owns a 'jalopy' and in Keene's " The Moonstone Castle Mystery", there is the sound of a gunshot, but it's the backfire of a nearby 'jalopy', no doubt Chet's, the Boys' friend.
I just noticed that intersection of both series.HOOK=2: "Joe, how soon will you be able to roll?" Frank Hardy burst into the garage where his brother was working on a sleek, black-and-silver motorcycle.
CHARACTERS=3: As in Keene/Drew stories, most of the characters are either good or bad.
The Hardy Boys Series are very confusing and fast paced at times.
The Missing Chums Another Hardy Boys book.
This time Chet and Tony are captured by smugglers.
After, Chet and Tony decided to walk together and talk.
When the Hardy Boys leave the party, they see that Chet and Tony are missing.
And since no clues to their sudden disappearance were found the two boys and Chet Morton's sister Iola worried.
This was a spectacular book and I recommend it to young readers who get captivated by mystery books.
I would rate this book a 6/5 because it was better than most books.
The kids and I read this together and was a trip down memory lane for me.
sweet i finished it in 2 days that how interesting it was
Listened in car with my 83 year old dad on a road trip. Conversation in car:Dad - I bet there is going to be either a cave or a tunnel that the boys find!Me - I bet many things will happen Suddenly!
A fun little book filled with action and adventure.
My first as a kid in the series.
This one had the Hardy boys looking for their two best friends, or at least two friends one of them that you see more of throughout the series (ie. Chet), who've gone missing after a costume party. Although I think this one was great, they wove three mysteries into one and that at times made things rather confusing and frustrating.
This book is like the others but it has a lot more confusion.
I can't tell you how long it was since I read these as a boy, but I twas given this edition for my seventh birthday and I just read it to my daughter after she turned eight.
I love the easy reading style, the easy to follow plot, and the mysteries are fun, if a bit simplistic.
A nice surprise to see how much fun it was to read to my daughter and revisit this book (and the others in the series) that were a big part of my young summer vacations.
Frank and Joe, who I believe may be the same person, ala Fight Club, stop a nationwide crime wave by putting their heads together and tackling a guy done in by his addiction to soda-pop.
At least their dad managed to not get caught, beaten, or starved this time, though he apparently forgot to prevent his sons' kidnapping.
Local incompetent Police Chief Cowlick (sp.?) once again sits on his ass in his office until the Hardy Boys do all the heavy lifting, while Frank and Joe's sexless girlfriends Iola and Callie do their part to show kid readers that girls are completely useless.
This was a blast from the past & well done with just a few sound effects to bring the story to life. Well read. I never read much of the Hardy Boys as a kid, but occasionally I'd get stuck some place with nothing else or better. Even as a kid, I quickly learned the formula. It was kind of fun revisiting them, though. I doubt I'll want to read another in the foreseeable future, but they are an important piece of Americana. They have a pretty interesting history of their own. Wikipedia has a pretty good write up here:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hard...
While Frank and Joe are heading to their friend Callie's party they hear on their radios that there was just a bank robbery.
So after the party they decide to go and try to catch the bad guys and put them in jail.
later on they find out that their two best friends (chums) have been kidnapped.
I recommend this book to people who love a good mystery and even to people who love action.
The Missing Chums by Franklin W.
Dixon is in between action driven and character driven book you decide.
I think that's the secret ingredient to Franklin's success with this series.
This is another fun adventure with the Hardy Boys as they find out that their friends Chet and Tony have came up missing after the party. I remember reading this book as a child and I was sitting on the edge of my seat screaming out for Frank and Joe to find their friends. I highly recommend this book. It has it all.
The old-school Hardy boys have a great vocabulary exposure for kids in first through fifth grade . They also make for great conversation starters as the author often refers to women as helpless while only good for their looks and making sandwiches.
Brothers Frank and Joe Hardy help the police and their father investigate fights in Shantytown, the disappearance of two of their friends and a bank robbery. It's entertaining to read all the stuff these young guys get up to and what their parents let them do!
I should really give this 4 stars because of the title, but the story is only 3 stars. I enjoyed it well enough. If you like the Hardy Boys, it's worth the read. If you don't, you should. Or at least like Nancy Drew.
These books are amazing, if you love a Juicy Mystery Book about Teen Detectives following their professional detective fathers path, with horror, suspense and crime, then this is right up your alley!
My favorite part about this book is when Joe jumps off the boat and leaves some of his friends on the boat. I like it a lot.
I read the Hardy Boys books (and Nancy Drew) when I was a child. The stories are old fashioned, but that's why I like them so much.
Great series. I read these many years ago. would read them over and over. Loved the stories.
Intriguing plot loved it!
i also think its awesome still missing a quarter of the book i think sutton,stark and another guy i forgot his name.
I have read most of this series over the years. These were the books that first got me interested in mysteries, and I've never read a book from this series that i haven't liked.
Ben is ripping through these which tells me he is enjoying them. I'm having a hard time telling how much though.
Good book
