https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1105468.The_Abominable_Man
I've just finished listening to what is probably the most cinematic of all the Sjowall and Wahloo Beck books (maybe not the best, but certainly the most evocative), and for the first time (despite the excellence of the entire series) I want to drop everything I'm doing and get started on the next book.I need to know how the serious cliffhanger resolves.
I sit here typing with a slight pain in my back when I should be cleaning or grocery shopping, and I think of writing a book with the qualities of The Abominable Man. Its unique in the Beck series for taking the shortest time from crime to resolution.
It makes us care about two of the other victims, dumb ass radio cops from earlier books.
Each book is introduced by a famous contemporary crime writer, and for this seventh episode it is the turn of local author Jens Lapidus to explain why and how it has marked his career: It was the feeling that someone had for the first time managed to describe criminality and police work in Stockholm adequately, in a way that was real, as it might actually have happened.
Actually, for me, the present episode is a return to the focus of the first novels in the series, concentrating more on the human suffering and making Martin Beck personally involved in the case after the detachment and relative passivity he displayed in the last couple of investigations.
Οι συγγραφείς έχουν μια σπάνια καθαρότητα, αφαιρούν τα καλλωπιστικά και ωραιολογικά γραφικά στοιχεία της αστυνομίας και την παρουσιάζουν ως μια επιχείρηση ενός μεγάλου συνόλου ανθρώπων, οι οποίοι έχουν ένα δύσκολο επάγγελμα, μια αναγκαστική αλληλουχία μεταξύ τους – καθένας με τα υπέρ, τα κατά και άγνωστα στον ίδιο σημεία του εαυτού του και που λίγο ως πολύ χρωματίζουν και δίνουν τόνο στη δουλειά του, ειδικά όταν με την τριβή, η απόσταση απ’ το αντικείμενο της εργασίας αυτής καταργείται, αυξάνοντας τη βιαιότητα που είναι ανάλογη με το αντικείμενο, αλλά και το χαρακτήρα του πομπού – αστυνομικού.
A policeman is butchered in his hospital bed.
The policeman has a past, and many enemies.
One of his many victims has exacted revenge, but which one?Enter Martin Beck and his supporting cast.
Somehow they will find the killer.
They find a list with Martin's name on it, as well as many other policemen.
It seems that the killer has declared war on the police.A superb thriller of a book, well paced, laconic and a joy to read.
The only downside is that I now have only three more Martin Beck books to look forward to.
Apesar da relutância em trabalhar com este subordinado, em vez do melhor amigo Kollberg, Martin Beck começa mais uma investigação.Ao contrário das investigações anteriores, esta revela-se de resolução simples e rápida.
Estará este assassino de policias errado ou serão as suas acções justificadas?À medida que a série avança, os livros vão-se tornando cada vez mais claustrofóbicos, não só no que diz respeito às personagens, como à sociedade em si.
O que começa como uma situação de humor, com a entrada voluntária no seu carro por um muito conhecido vagabundo pedinte que os provocou, para sua humilhação, na via pública, acaba com um tiro baixo do joelho de um dos policias.Seguem-se 2 minutos e 27 segundos de puro terror que envolvem os agentes Larsson e Kollberg.
By the time of book 7 of the final 10 of the "Novels about a crime", the writing couple of Maj Sjöwall and Per Wahlöö had about nothing left to prove. This book, however, is one of the strongest of the series. Hard to compare to anything else, this is about crime in Stockholm in the 60's, but I think you won't need any prior knowledge to appreciate the mellow-paced and melancholic, only to be disrupted by brutality and violence, story.
Part the seventh of Sjöwall and Wahlöö's excellent 10-part series, The Abominable Man starts off in a hospital room where a man lays in a great deal of pain and anxiety due to his fear of death.
In the meantime, Martin Beck is seized with a feeling of dread -- intuiting danger ahead.The Abominable Man is another excellent novel from Sjowall and Wahloo, and it is darker in tone than any of its predecessors, one of the most intense books of the series so far.
I like that authors giving different perspectives and views on certain scenes accordingly to each characters.
Understandable, great story-telling, not bland and quite exciting.
It was getting unsure in the middle, giving me so much assumptions and guessing game but for what the suspect had to suffer and encounter in his life was totally unbearable.
I kind of understand on the revenge part but the stuff he did was still beyond reasonable-- Nyman part especially.
But knowing what had Nyman did, the blatantly part of the organization, all the mess-- I was in anger at a point while reading the complainant's reports.
It presents a police department that has lost the respect of the populace because of the rampant corruption and brutality that has become so much a part of that essential organization.We are introduced briefly to a police inspector who is known to be exceptionally cruel in his treatment of the policemen under his command and particularly the prisoners who are unfortunate enough to find themselves under his control.
Someone breaks into his room and dispatches him with a bayonet, essentially disemboweling him in the process.There is no lack of potential suspects, people who would have wished this man dead with good cause.
In the end, it didn't take any great amount of police work to unmask the killer this time.
Bettie's Books
Social critique of Sweden’s police power at the time, about 1970, and some heroic police work coupled with some administrative police boneheadedness - after this many in the series, you know the guys like characters in an ensemble police tv show.
One of the things that I enjoy about the Martin Beck series is that each book fits into a different archetype (if that's the right word): there's a sex fiend, there's an organized crime story, etc.
In any case, The Abominable Man centers around a madman and wins a fourth star from me for its high-tension conclusion.
That said, part of the reason the tension is so high is because this many books in, we are well acquainted with Beck and his colleagues - we have something vested in their fate.
The language is so fresh and without accent, the only thing preventing us from imagining it happening today is that there are no cell phones to clutter the action.
It is painful to see something happening in slow motion in these pages, all the while knowing this could never happen anywhere in the world today.
The authors are so dry in their humor and restrained in their expression, that I have definitely developed a warm spot for criminal investigator Martin Beck.
This gives us a hint at the authors' characterization: Martin Beck said nothing.
Book 7 looks critically at the problem of police brutality and how it is covered up within the infamous code of blue, even in Sweden. A senior policeman is murdered in the hospital, and as Beck investigates, he learns that the policeman often took the law into his own hands, dispensing justice. Apparently the book was published in 1971, the same year that "Dirty Harry" was released in the U.S. The final 25% was action-packed, putting the reader in the middle of a terrifying inner-city Stockholm scene: gunman-on-the-roof, lone-madman vs. the entire police force, with many innocents in between.
Fairly fast paced story of murder set in 1970's sweden. The sort of crime story which has the focus on the crime, and the circumstances and characters surrounding the actual act. Have to see about reading more of the Beck series.
It's 1971, and this one is unusually quick.
We are used to Martin Beck and his colleagues busy for weeks and months when solving a crime.
This time it's just 2 days, I think - at least two of them never even get to sleep.
I liked the unusual pairings of Martin Beck-Einar Rönn and Lennart Kollberg-Gunvald Larsson.
I admit it pains me whenever pieces of Gunvald's classy clothing are destroyed ...And again the dilemma: a victim who "deserved" to be killed and a killer who was driven to desperate measures, for whom one can't help feeling sorry.7 down, 3 to go.
The Beck novels are realistic in a way no other detective novels are.
Or maybe I don't mean "realistic" so much as "true to life." I mean, I have no idea how well the world of Swedish law enforcement is depicted here.
But I have an increasingly veteran experience of the way that life works, which is to say not according to plan.
Martin Beck starts investigating crimes in a perfectly rational fashion, but he never follows a procedure or a chain of deduction through to their logical end.
When I wrote in my post on Sjöwall’s & Wahlöö’s  Murder at the Savoy  that the authors were taking the whole of Swedish society into their analytical focus, I was not entirely correct – with all the harsh criticism there remained at least one area where things still seemed to be for the most part as they should be, namely the Swedish police. Certainly, there was the occasional incompetent cop, the occasional bureaucrat who cared only for his own career, but overall the novels gave the impres
Certainly, there was the occasional incompetent cop, the occasional bureaucrat who cared only for his own career, but overall the novels gave the impression that police was filled with people like Martin Beck or Lennart Kollberg – far from perfect, but hard-working and well-meaning people.All of this changes with The Abominable Man. This seventh novel in the series opens with an aged policeman being murdered in his hospital room, and the ensuing investigation into his death not only reveals him to be incompetent, narrow-minded, reactionary and prone to use violence, but also makes it clear that everyone knew about this, that in fact he trained many young policemen (with rather questionable methods) to his way of thinking, and that the only reason his career in the police came to a sudden standstill is the arrival of a more liberal climate in Swedish society during the sixties – a climate which by the end of that decade (when I presume the novel takes place) has already begun to fade again.
It's been months since I read any of Sjowall and Wahloo's Martin Beck series.
As the novel was first published some forty years ago, I am including The Abominable Man as my 1970s read for the Goodreads / Bookcrossing Decade Challenge.The tense thriller had me gripped from the start and I couldn't put it down so read the whole book in an afternoon.
Many authors have since emulated Sjowall and Wahloo - in fact I have read uncannily similar plots in other books - but I would say that the Swedish series are still the best.
A problem for me while reading it was I couldn't figure out if it was part of a series, or who the main character was supposed to be.
But at the end it was funny to see all the distinct police officials standing around with their thumbs up their asses, a bunch of free agents under the deceptive moniker Police clumsily trying to work together.As I write this some punk in a gas mask is being reported to have gone on a shooting spree in a movie theater in Colorado (my copy of this book has on its cover a man in a gas mask and in the novel a man in a gas mask goes on a shooting spree).
This time, it’s a hospitalized police inspector who, while in his hospital room, is brutally killed with a bayonet.
The plot resolves in a much more straightforward way than Murder at the Savoy.The murder victim is the title character, “the abominable man.” He’s a sadistic, brutal guy who trained other cops in his ways.
It makes for an interesting character.
But the authors didn’t really do anything with the character.
The killer had a motive for killing the “abominable” guy, but not for killing anyone else.
There is a killing spree at the end, but again, it’s all pointless, without motive.
Another excellent entry in this 10-volume "story of a crime." This one ends as brutally as it begins.
The more I read Maj Sjöwall & Per Wahlöö, the more impressed I am with how solid this series is – characters, plot, social critique, atmosphere, even… its grim metaphysics.
Compared to these decades-old police procedurals, most hard-boiled detective fiction seems hysterical, over-written, forced and fake.
It's a mess Martin Beck makes sense of the only way he can and of course it ends badly.Perfect.
I'll take Sjöwall & Wahlöö over Beckett any day.
These books are sparsely written, even for Swedish detective novels, and I find them somewhat unsatisfying as a consequence. This is the second one in this series that I have read, The Laughing Policeman being the first. This one had a plot so simplex and characters so one-dimensional that it may be the last one that I read. Can't believe this book got an average of nearly 4 stars - more highly rated than Last Night in Twisted River. Twisted ratings.....more like it.
I read this as a kind of curiosity, since I normally do not see the point really to read a translation from my native language. Of course, I have happened upon translated books (into Swedish) where the translator really has added something, but I'm not sure I would appreciate this the the other way around. Anyway, this worked well in another language and it was a fun experience.
Otra magnífica novela policíaca del personaje Martín Beck, en este caso ante un episodio de brutalidad policial. Sjowall no deja pasar un estamento sin crítica feroz, resignadamente admite que las sociedades burocratizadas no tienen remedio.
This series just gets better and better. Definitely a nail biter. I'm so glad I wasn't reading this in 1971...I'd hate to have to wait a year to read the next one!
I read this out of sequence (skipping over #6) -- and was fairly disappointed by it.
I simply adore this series and am dreading the harsh reality that I only have two left to read! The series seems to be getting darker and I seem to worry more about the characters. Wonderful!
This police procedural picks up the pace that was lost in the last one in the series.
Re-reading the Martin Beck series and found this mystery, one of my least favorable.
The major theme is the consequence of poor policing of the police force.
The death of a police captain leads to an investigation of past cases and a broad history of criminal practices of the Swedish police.
I found it difficult to understand how such a repressive set of policing behaviors was apparently ignored and perhaps rewarded.
Overall, it is depressing for Beck and for those who are good policemen.
The outcome translated into a rampage of a former policeman.
