https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/760848.Dogsong
With Gary Paulson's books, my relationship is a little strange.
I either end up hating it completely or falling completely in love with it.
This was one of those I fell completely in love with.
The language is simple, so simple that one may mistake it as a story for children.
I disagree.
He weaves the words in such a way that once I shut the book I am left in a thoughtful mood, and filled with yearning.
This book is a masterpiece, and one I have read dozens of times.
The first part is about Russel feeling unhappy about his life and going to see a blind old man called 'Oogruk'.
During his journey in real life, he faces many difficulties such as starving.
So, Russel starts his way with the dogs to take Nancy to the Northern village and to the doctor.The part 3 is the actual dogsong, the song the Russel made during and after his long and hard journey.
I like how the story was about a journey of a boy being a man.
By the time fourteen-year-old Russel Suskitt comes along, the Eskimo way has lain forgotten for generations, held to only by Oogruk, an elderly man who remembers the white missionaries who reformed Eskimo spirituality and culture.
Russel must assimilate the dying Eskimo way of life before the last man who lived it is gone.
Russel ties the dogs to Oogruk's sled and drives them away from civilization into the howling snowstorms of Alaska's wilderness.
This is why Russel's father urges him to spend time with Oogruk; Russel isn't happy in the village, and the song of the old man's life can help.
Russel Susskit, a 14 year old boy, lives in a village in Alaska.
He has made terrible health decisions, leaving Russel looking for answers.
Russel visits the village elder, Oogruk.
Russel is sent on a wild, breathtaking ride.
And Russel must use them to travel up North to look for clues and answers.
He then finds clues, and his life is completely flipped upside down, but in a good way.
I felt like I was holding onto my seat, due to the greatness of the book.
I’ve read several books by Gary Paulsen, and this one doesn’t quite top the rest of them off.
My oldest granddaughter, she is ten, traveled to Alaska with me this summer.
We have a lot of time on our hands and with no T.V. or internet access at our summer home, reading has become a huge happy pastime for both of us.
I read Dogsong to Iris and we both were so in love with this book.
The writing is almost rhythmic and flows in a way that makes you feel like you are floating along with the writer on this stark cold journey of the Alaskan north, I am so happy I read this book and more so, I am happy that my granddaughter and I got to share this book.
I really did not like this book. I thought it was slow and there was not enough action. I would not really recommend this book to anyone because it was boring and was not worth reading. Also it was not worded very well.
good i like the theme
But then it gets even weirder when Russel finds a woman that was banished from her village for getting pregnant without trying to get pregnant so shes out in the wild about to die and he saves her and she gives birth to a stillborn but they have to go to a village to try to save the woman whose name is Rachel, then the book ends with one of his songs that the old man always talked about, he told Russel that he needs to find his song which I guess Russel found, so I liked the book it was good.
I really enjoyed this book.
Gary Paulsen has a lot of experience with dogs and writes with such detail that you feel like you're there.
I've read many other Gary Paulsen books and would reccomend them to anyone.
His books can make a person enjoy reading.
The reason I chose this book is because as said before I've read many other books by Gary Paulsen.
I would reccomend this to anyone because as I said, these books can make you love reading.
That's how I feel about this book and think that you should definantly read it.
Russel is a young Eskimo who is trying to live his life within the traditions of the Eskimo people.
He then says goodbye as it is his time and Russel with his dog sled and team heads North to find himself .
He meets someone along the way.
It i in his dreams that he conquers a great monster of a foe.
In his time of need he is able to conquer a similar foe in real life.
"Mother Wind and Father Ice " are there to show him the way.
He learns to keep himself and his team alive.
Dogsong is a fiction book by Gary Paulsen, it is about Russel who is a young teen who can't find himself. He feels lost with his life so he goes to this old guys house for help. The old mans name is Oogruk. Oogruk is a wise old fellow who lives close to Russel in their Eskimo village. Dogsong was published in 1985 by Simon & Schuster, Inc. Simon & Schuster, Inc was founded in New York, has published about 2,000 titles, and is one of the four biggest U.S. publishers. Russel tells his dad
Oogruk is a wise old fellow who lives close to Russel in their Eskimo village.
Oogruk is an old blind, but very wise guy who lives close to Russel and his dads winter house they stay in during the whole winter.
Russel went for many miles leaving behind his old life at the village.
Finally Russel came upon a person with its head facing down in the snow so he could not tell if it was a man or woman.
Russel set up camp left Nancy there and went hunting.
When Russel got to Nancy she was again almost dead.
One day in Alaska a boy named Russel went on a run.
His friend wanted deer eyes to eat so he went out and got him some.
Oogruk said yes so Russel took them out, and kept heading north so when he got lost Oogruk was the only one who knew where he was.
He went up and kicked something it was a girl that got lost.
He got her up and said "we need to get you to a doctor" the next day they found their way back to the village and she went to the doctor.
PAULSEN CATEGORYRussell is 14 and restless.
Russell goes and realizes as he listens and learns from the old man that his restlessness is a hunger for the old ways, and traditions of his people.
At the encouragement of Oogruk, and with only an ancestral dogsled and a strong and loyal dog team Russell embarks on a traditional long run where he learns to hunt, see and trust as he searches for his own song.
Paulsen accurately and sensitively depicts the agitation and confusion of a boy as he tries to become a man and make sense of himself and his world.
Dogsong was a very good eye opening book from the view of the eskimo prospective.This book is about a young boy that doesn't know what to do with his life and needs help.
His father tells him to go talk to an old man in the village they live in that has been around a very long time and knows a lot of things he can share with him to try and help him find what needs to happen.
After the two talking for a while the boy borrows the mans dog sled and the team to go out on the ice and tundra to hunt to find his song.
This story seems pretty simple on the surface: an Eskimo boy takes five dogs and a sled and finds himself with the old ways.
However, the social commentary that exists in this novel speaks out for the new generation to remember who they are and their culture.
Despite the fact that this book was set in Alaska and the protagonist was an Eskimo boy, I really felt a connection to the theme and messages of this novel.
I feel that many multicultural students can find a way to relate to the themes of this book, and I would recommend it to my students.
Russell wants to live the old ways of the Eskimos and goes to live with an old shaman, Oogruk, to learn the old ways.
He learns how to hunt in the old ways with a dog sled team and hand-made weapons and how to survive in the Arctic wilderness.
Russell must now go on a journey alone to learn about himself and to learn his own song.Gary Paulsen is the king of survival books for young adults.
He keeps you reading to find out how Russell is going to survive this epic journey into the ice and snow.
You also learn a lot about the Eskimos at the same time.
This is the wonderful tale of a boy who follows his dream which were inspired by an old man he admires.
Russel Susskit dares to follow a strange, powerful dream of his long-ago self to find his own song in an effort to better understand the old ways and the songs that describe them of his people.
It's a great story.
It is the story of Russel Susskit who follows a strange, powerful dream of his long-ago self to find his own song in an effort to better understand the old ways and the songs that describe them.
I've been wanting to pick up this book since I read Paulsen's nonfiction account of running dogs, Winterdance.
I found the first half a little heavy-handed, even for YA fare, but sank deeply into story and rhythm the second part in a way I haven't fallen into a book in a long time.
In the end, the power of the story overcame the unfortunate tendency (of so many books)to assume and even preach the superiority of everything old and indigenous and lost.
I don't know if I would have been as enthralled if I didn't have such a personal connection to the material.
I found this one in a stack of books I received from my Aunt's classroom.
At first, I couldn't believe 10-11 year old children should read about the harsh and raw lifestyle of an eskimo boy; however, the book is rich in detail about native american customs.
It is brilliant coming of age tale.
Also, the boy learns of the circular nature of life because animals give their lives to feed man and man returns gratitude to the animals so their spirits will return the next season.
He also dreams in a circular way that ties his life to his ancestors.
A much needed book for boys today. It is rough and raw, a survival story which is so characteristic of Paulsen. A coming-of -age story, but more than that; it is the story of a boy that makes the passage to manhood. Russel Susskit begins as an eskimo boy, living with his sick father on the government reservation and ends as a man, living on his own, surviving by the "old ways." His passage involves the hunt, running dogs, and a journey where he finally finds his song, his meaning and place in the world.
This is an Eskimo coming of age story, filled with the dramas of an adventure through the frozen north. A tale written simply enough for young readers, but filed with enough substance for adult readers. In some ways reminiscent of stories by Jack London. A great read for those who enjoy a good Arctic adventure, truly deserving of it's award wins.
I just finished reading this book with my kids as the culmination of our Innuit unit. It was wonderful. There is not one misstep in this beautifully written novel. I found the voice to be perfect, as primal as the main character's urge to return to the ways of his ancestors. Paulsen's cultural details were impecable and his execution of setting meticulous.
The is a book for elementary students ~ and there are many lessons to be learned (even if they don't realize it!).It is a coming of age story addressing how and what can be learned from a simpler way of life ~ learning from the wise of the older generations. Something we can all appreciate. Understanding the cultures of others is especially important in today's world.
I don't know if it was because I was forced to read this book for english class but I really did not like it at all. I got bored in so many places that I almost fell asleep. This really was not my kind of book.
This book was really weird and boring and dind of hard to understand because he was trying to imitate the way they speak. No one should read this book unless they want to be bored to death.
Oogruk tells Russel that he needs to discover his own song and returning to the old ways of his people may help.
Driven by a recurring dream and a team of five great red dogs, Russel heads north searching for answers and a song.Dogsong is divided into two parts: Russel’s training with Oogruk and his solitary journey north.
Pay attention to the journey.” All too often we find ourselves consumed or distracted by the things that have little to no effect on our life or circumstances.
If we take an old shaman’s advice and simply look up, look around, and pay attention, perhaps we too can find the words to our own song.
A couple days ago, I finished the fiction book called, Dog Song by Gary Paulsen.
In the book Dog Song, four-teen year old named Russel Susskit.
In Shaman, there’s this person named Oogruk who starts to talk a lot about Jesus since Russel doesn’t know much about Jesus.
Soon Russel goes on a real journey and finds this a lost pregnant woman in the wild.
Russel heals her and soon finds her hometown where she can heal.
This book was probably one of the best books I read just because it taught me a lot of life lessons.
Dogsong Picture QuestGary Paulsen ISBN 978-1-4169-3919-1Dogsong Book Review Gary Paulsen is the author of the book Dogsong that takes place in the Arctic. The main character is Russel and he is sent on a mission to discover the old ways of life. As Russel gets deeper into the wilderness he starts to have visions of what could happen to him. As Russel continues his journey he find a woman who is almost frozen solid and he helps her get better.Dogsong would be enjoyed by people who like the outdoo
Throughout the book Russel is discovering what his ancestors felt like as they moved through life.
With each section there is a new part of the story and a new task for Russel to complete.
By the end of Russel’s run he is going home to his village to go back to normal life.In conclusion dogsong is about a boy named Russel’s journey.
As Russel goes on the journey he has tasks to complete.
Once Russel completes his last task he can go home and live a normal life.
Dogsong is about a fourteen-year-old Eskimo boy named Russel Susskit who lives with his father.
His father notices how Russel doesn't follow Jesus so he sends him to a blind old man named Oogruk who lives in a small town.
Oogruk tells Russel about how the before the missionaries came and talked to people about Jesus, people had their own life songs.My favorite part of the book is the beginning when Russel runs dogs for his first time.
I enjoyed this part because it is interesting to see how Russel runs dogs.
I did enjoy the parts that involved Oogruk and Russel.
I never got around to reading the book, but I thought Gary Paulsen must be an amazing author to capture a young boy's attention like that.
I came across a collection of Gary Paulsen's books in paperback and bought them for my son.
Needing a new book to start, I picked up the Paulsen books from his old room and decided to read them in chronological order of when they were written (Hatchet was not in this collection).
I have no problem with it though and I feel like his writing style is what first attracted my son to his books.
