https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/151242.Titus_Alone
Titus Alone has the charms and eccentricities, the verbal and visual beauties of its two formidable predecessors, but it is only about half as long as they are, with extremely short chapters, and it lacks their concentrated richness, their depth and perspective.
Or is it best viewed as a mere charcoal sketch, a study containing all the lines but lacking the coloring of the painting that--for whatever reason--was never completed?
The theme of madness and Titus' fear of it--which some have seen as proof of Peake's artistic breakdown--is entirely appropriate, given that our hero has been formed and shaped by a world--Gormenghast--that other characters view as his own fantastic creation.
The world is as strange to us, as it is to Titus.The setting and narration of the first two books is inextricably bound to, and by, the crumbling, timeless walls of Gormenghast castle.
Within the walls of Gormenghast castle, the focus is on the past, on tradition, on predetermined fate; yet in Titus Alone, we are exposed to a world with a focus on the future, on self-determination, and innovation.
And perhaps, madness.Which leaves us with Peake's most provocative exploration in the book: that Gormenghast itself may be something entirely different than we, or Titus, thought.
I waffled a little bit between three and four stars, but in the end Peake's use of language won over the rather odd plot departure in this third book.I didn't mind that Titus was a stranger in a strange land or that he has apparently skipped far into the future where he's among moderns with airplanes or even stranger "seeing" devices or oddly strange ways of transportation upon one's side.
This could have been a standalone quite easily, turning the modern world into a falling-down-the-rabbit-hole kind of fantasy for someone like Titus.
Overall, it is perhaps most like dystopian sci fi: a bemused outsider is treated as a mad and bad interloper by all-seeing, all-knowing authorities and where a rough underclass survives literally underneath the main cities, which makes me wonder if I would enjoy it more as a standalone book with no references to Gormenghast or the Groans.Each time I read it, I am more baffled than the last.Despite that, there are still glimpses of Peake's inimitable use of language: “merest wisp of a man...
It was not Peake's intention to stroke and comfort his readers, but to take them from high to low, to present them with wonder and with a vast, unconquerable world of wretched beauty.Over the long stretch of the first two books, the reader becomes accustomed to the castle Gormengast, to identify with Titus' everyday struggles against plodding tradition.
However, it is difficult for me to imagine how such readers could at once praise Peake for the the singular, spectacular world of the first two books, and then become upset when he continues to expand his vision.
The last book in the Gormenghast series was sadly a big let down for me, although I loved the peculiarity of first two books in the series, but things got a lot weird and meaningless for me in this book.
This review is not a spoiler for Titus Alone, but because it is book 3, it is generally a spoiler for the first two books in the series, so I don’t recommend reading this if you have any interest in books 1 and 2, which  I reviewed here.One of the intriguing and compelling aspects of Books 1 and 2 that made it feel so dark and claustrophobic was the enclosed and isolated nature of the kingdom of Gormenghast.
Mervyn Peake was the Buddy Holly of literature - there was absolutely no doubt that he would have written a great third volume of the Gormenghast saga, but he fell victim to early onset dementia, and all we have are the scraps of notes from this last unhappy period; just as we know full well that the void between 1960 and the rise of the Beatles in 63 would have been filled magnificently by Buddy Holly, whose musical imagination had already at age 22 impressed all with his huge potential.
Titus Alone is in no way to be compared with the first two brilliant Gormenghast volumes.
There was no knowing.
In a few moments there was no noise at all, and then the scuffling sound of a bird in the ivy outside the tall window recalled the world that was outside himself – something apart from this frightful zoneless nullity.As he lifted himself up on one elbow, his memory returning in small waves, he could not know that a figure filled the doorway of his room – not so much in bulk as in the intensity of her presence – filled it as a tigress fills the opening of her cave.”Titus Alone is morbidly surreal and it is most hopeless – there is no light in the end of a tunnel.
3.5 that I'm rounding up because the trilogy as a whole was awesome this book just didn't have the same magic as the first two.
I have a rocky relationship with the Gormenghast book.
I've often found the writing style too ornate - deliciously descriptive, true, but also sometimes so adorned that I can't tell what the hell is going on.
I found the second book more readable than the first.
I find the third more readable than the previous two.
The problem is, while it was a more pleasant read, I'm not sure why it exists.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Well, it has only taken me fourteen years, but I have finished the trilogy at last; I read the first volume back in 2001 as a high school sophomore, and enjoyed it, but at the time I was being carried along by a seemingly endless wave of writers to discover and rediscover that I didn't fully appreciate it at the time.
So much seems to flow from this novel; I get the feeling that many rivers - Ballard, Carter, Harrison, Bernanos' 'Other Side of the Mountain', great swathes of the New Wave and New Weird both, can all trace their point of origin back to the phantasmagoric lands depicted here and in 'Boy in Darkness'.
A decent wrap up to the trilogy, but it was not as satisfying as the first two books having not taken place within the walls of Gormenghast with all the characters I have come to know and love. But, the weirdness of the new characters and scenes, along with Peake's way with imaginative descriptions, were still all there to be savored.
Fortunatamente sono andata avanti, rendendomi conto di aver perso anch’io ogni punto di riferimento, di aver fatto mio lo smarrimento di Tito man mano che la sua fuga lo portava sempre più lontano.Sparito il profilo della sua casa grande come una montagna.
And although I can't possibly give away the sensational ending to "Titus Alone", I can say the ending is similar to the end of "Gormenghast" and, oh, here is a comment that hurts to consider: with the end of "Alone" and with what little I know of "Titus Awakes", Peake had opened for himself a singular world ripe for novel after novel after novel.
And if you're an action thriller fan (that isn't one of my favorite genres) , you can't miss "Titus Alone." Now, it's time to seek out "Titus Awakes", which I believe was written by Peake's wife based on a few notes Peake had left to us.
And is that a drone Peake is imagining in 1959?The vast difference in quality between Gormenghast and Titus Alone is due to Peake's battle with dementia toward the end of his life.
It's a sad impact to the quality of his work, but an excellent study in the difference between masterpiece writing and amateur writing (though there are a few passages in TA where Peake still kills it).Also, I flipped between the very different editions of this, an early version of poor editorial judgement, and the more recent restitution by a close friend of Peake's.
La sua brama di una illusoria libertà, nutrita fin dall’infanzia, si rivelerà come il vero ostacolo da superare per diventare uomo, ed il suo superamento sarà possibile solo dopo l’avere riconosciuto come vero (e non un sogno o un incubo che fosse) e così finalmente introiettato, il proprio passato, la sua infanzia e adolescenza, la parte fondamentale del suo essere: che non è altro che Gormenghast, lui stesso, il suo coraggio e la sua viltà, con il suo lato oscuro che era rappresentato dal perfido Ferraguzzo, ucciso sì, ma ancora presente come un’ombra costante nei suoi pensieri, e la nascosta fuga con cui si era concluso il secondo volume.La trilogia solo così con questo terzo volume forse meno raffinato, meno curato dal punto di vista formale, così diverso dai precedenti, acquista pienamente tutto il suo significato, quello di una potente metafora di una storia di formazione.
Given that Peake intended two more books, it's hard to see why he created this scene with so much effort, and then did so little with it.
(Or, given the timing, that he created a broader setting for Peake's detailed locale).At any rate, worth reading for those who really enjoyed books I and II, but of a wholly different order than those are - wilder and less coherent.
Now to decide whether to read book IV, but on whole, given the reviews by Gormenghast fans, I think I'll give it a try.
Peake's intention with the series was to tell the entire life story of the character Titus Groan, and he was working on the fourth book in this series at the time of his death.
He planned to write five volumes in the series, the fourth and fifth being "Titus Awakens" and "Gormenghast Revisited." Clearly Peake didn't think of this book as the conclusion to a trilogy, but a middle-section in a much larger work.Aside from that, the first two books in the series, Titus Groan and Gormenghast, tell a more-or-less complete story about the bizarre happenings at Gormenghast castle during Titus's youth.
RTC
Stark: dry: unequivocal: and cryptic: a thing of crusts and water." While the writing style of this third book in the Gormenghast trilogy is so different, it still has the taste and flavor of Peakes eloquent and repugnant writing.
While more abstract in his writing, he follows some themes that we continue to see throughout this short book, such as can we really escape who we are?
He also displays a unique way of writing and no one that reads Peake can object to his fanciful words that draw you in to his story.
Non si può lasciare indietro Gormenghast. Perché è il tempo, è la terra.
This book achieves the rare feat of making the other books in the series feel worse on reflection.
Such a whiny, inconsiderate twit is Lord Titus that I found myself sorry that Steerpike failed to lay him low in their final encounter.Many character quirks and and attitudes are rehashed from the first two novels in ways that are unsubtle to the point of distraction.
There are also social/political statements attempted with such heavy handedness that I am forced to re-examine the earlier books with concern that what I'd taken for charming eccentricity is actually more of this lumbering attempt at poetical philosophy.The book ends exactly where it begins, with Titus setting out from his home determined to never return, making the whole tortured journey (of the reader) doubly pointless and negating any possible catharsis.
The Gormenghast trilogy is in my all time favourites list. The writing is incredible. I read the three books straight through as one. The second, Gormenghast is the best. After this Gothic Fantasy, anything I read seemed flat and boring for a while.
Even though it's very different from the first two books, I found Titus Alone a fitting addition to the Gomenghast saga.
It complemented the first two books well and turns the careful world building of those novels on their head.
The biggest problem with this volume is that Peake didn't live to write the remaining books he had planned.
It relies heavily on what's come before and sets up the next chapter in Titus' life.
Had Peake completed the series, I suspect this would have been a transition novel, tying the early and later parts of the series together.
Peake really just let his mind wander in this one. All sorts of side stories, plot holes and weirdness that made little to no sense. So many questions with no answers.
As weird as ever. Creepy phrases and bizarre characters, always a winner.'Under a light to strangle infants by,' is the best set up I have ever read.
:/This is the third book completed by Mervyn Peake, centering around the character Titus Groan, Seventy-Seventh Earl of Gormenghast.
Modern cities, cars, weird flying machines, underground people, a zoo, houses made of glass, poverty, money-eaters, mad scientists, love.
No, not one person is familiar with his home.Titus isn't even the only character that suffers from bad characterization-- but there are others.
In particular I'm thinking of Cheeta and the scientists (the latter feeling like something tacked on just for plots sake, something even more of an enigma than Titus).There's also the matter of writing style.
I adored the first two books in the series, but I didn't think they deserved five stars.
'Titus Alone' is a masterpiece.
I have no other words for it.When I first read the blurb, I was worried.
But that's exactly why it works and why it is so much better than the first two books.
I mean I love 'Titus Groan' and 'Gormenghast'.
They are great, but this book is indescribable in its brilliance.Normally, I have a complaint with every book I read, even if it's just a quibble.
At the moment, I can't even think of a quibble to complain about.
The story wasn't quite on the same level as the other two books, but it's still very much a Titus novel.
The lovely room grew soft with evening light as Juno and Titus slid from their clothes, and, trembling, sank to the floor together and began to drown.
It swarmed across the carpet; climbed a wall of books, and shook with joy across the solemn ceiling."I could pretty much read Peak's descriptions of a game of golf at this point or something equally as boring.
And I love Peak's nonchalance in describing Muzzlehatch's intentions.What a great book that brought me back into that world for a little while.
