https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1117634.Small_Is_Beautiful
That economic growth should be subordinated to broader human, cultural, political and ecological concerns, and that it should serve human growth by being intelligently harnessed to fuel community-development projects (rather than having politics hijacked by economics by claiming economic growth is the end-all of politics and society), is an idea we badly need to grasp at a time in which corporations are gaining unprecedented legal rights and political power.The underlying issue here is, as he rightly points out, our culturally patterned inability (read, unwillingness) to understand issues in their true context.
He highlights the shortcomings of statistical models (i.e., "externalities" such as quality of life, environmental degradation, social impacts, etc are not assessed).The response to Small is Beautiful was the creation of a humanistic economics movement.
This movement suggests that deeming something "economic" does not mean it is the automatic correct course of action, rather the first discussion of "economics" should be followed by consideration of whether the action is ethical, ecological, etc.
The basic tenent of Small is Beautiful is that people should come before economics, that one's workplace/life should be dignified and meaningful first, efficient second, and that nature is priceless.

Trust me, this was not on my reading list...I am fascinated with the idea that capitalism has become the new religion for the US/West and that envy/greed the primary morals.
The book discusses how capitalistic systems push for growth to solve problems, including poverty, unemployment and standard of living.
It also shows how capitalistic systems fall short of solving these problems, because it 1) assumes that infinite growth is possible within a finite world (sustainable econ.
Schumacher reminds us that there are spiritual, moral and ecological losses in a capitalistic system.
I’ve never been all that interested in macroeconomics, but intrigued by the title, I gave Small is Beautiful by E.F. Schumacher a try.
It was a long read, but a good one, and I culled interesting insights from every chapter.
Schumacher also explains how little consideration was put towards pollution until it was too late.
I have talked about the religion of economics, the idol worship of material possessions, of consumption and the so-called standard of living, and the fateful propensity that rejoices in the fact that ‘what were luxuries to our fathers have become necessities for us."When I read quotes like that one, I couldn’t help but think about what the economic implications of Christian thought are, and how few Americans I know, least of all me, embody them.
He doesn't use this terminology, but I think his advocacy of small scale is closely tied to the ethics of caring: it is natural to want to care for things one owns, but this is only possible at the human scale on which care can operate.-I appreciated his discussion of "convergent" and "divergent" problems.
I find this distinction to be pretty useful.-Despite approaching it critically due to the New-Agey title, I actually liked the essay "Buddhist Economics", and I wish he had called it something different as there is little in it that is specific to Buddhism--I think it was just a hot topic in 1973.
Oof, tried to read this but found it dated and preachy. Some of Schumacher's fundamental ideas are wonderful and important, but I can't read books that make blanket statements about the iniquity and moral vacuity of modern society & how things were better before the 19th/20th/21st century.Also, if you're writing for an audience of non-conformists in the seventies and you're NOT a feminist, shame on you. (Schumacher says that "most" women shouldn't have to work, yet claims that meaningful work is a human right. Um.)
the basic idea of Small is Beautiful is that our economies in the world are big, big businesses, have become too big.
But he was writing about these things way back in the‘70s.What is the most basic problem?“Economically our wrong living consists primarily in systematicallycultivating greed and envy and thus building up a vast array oftotally unnecessary wants.
Because to deny them would be too obviously absurd andto acknowledge them would condemn the central preoccupation ofmodern society as a crime against humanity.“=====by A.J
Read for class.Several extremely interesting economic ideas, including pointing out some of the flaws with some economic statistical models, as well as offering some very interesting solutions. I admit some of these are too idealistic to be practical, but many of them are very interesting. The book also has a clearly religious disposition, which may turn off some freethinkers, but the ideas are still substantial enough to be considered and applied, as seen in the Bhutan.A very interesting book.
To find out more, click here.Small is Beautiful is a collection of essays outlining economist EF Schumacher's philosophy on modern economic, ecological and spiritual thinking.
Its strength lies in Schumacher's ability to elegantly and intelligently question many assumptions of modern economics, highlighting some of the fallacies.
What makes his work all the more remarkable is that his starting point was indeed economics, rather than environmentalism or social activism.Part of his thinking about technology comes from Schumacher's vision of what he calls 'Buddhist economics'.
Here, he is calling for a new philosophy, which values people above production and values labour above outputs.
This is a very dry book on economics based on metaphysics. It questions modern motives and provides some insightfull answers to them.A great read altogether.
Although a bit dated which is apparent when he refers to specific details, Schumacher's 1973 book Sm
So, for the ideas, five stars!Unfortunately however, there are different ways to review a book and as a work of literature I found it slightly disappointing.
Hence three stars (sure, I liked it - but that's all).The other difficulty I had was the overall style but which was probably down to its age.
About the time he was writing it, I was moving up to ''big school'' and being handed those awful, dry-prose things known in our time as ''text books''.
This reminded me a lot of those old text books, in contrast to the more conversational, less overly didactic style of today's specialist, non-fiction writers.
I would classify E.F. Schumacher as an economic philosopher.
His thoughts are valid not just in Growth & Development economics but also extend to aspect of microeconomics, corporate culture, human resources and environmental economics.
Schumacher is a Gandhian at heart.
The economics we learn in school seems very biased and this book presents a different way to look at it all.
Schumacher writes passionately and drives his point home.
I wish I could ask him his thoughts on modern day breakthroughs like microfinance and corporate social responsibility.
I can only draw my conclusions from the writing in this fantastic book.
Although I don't agree with everything he says, this small book by Schumacher contains extremely interesting ideas. I liked especially his chapters about education (which he calls The Greatest Resource) and about the prediction of future. I intend to use these ideas in several future posts in my blog: http://populscience.blogspot.com/ in English and http://divulciencia.blogspot.com/ in Spanish.
But I had never actually read the book as amazing as that seems.
Now I have finally read it as it approaches its 50th anniversary.The book has a few too many biblical references for my liking.
Here's one of my favorites:The cultivation and expansion of needs is the antithesis of wisdom.
It is also the antithesis of freedom and peace, Every increase of needs tends to increase one's dependence on outside forces over which one cannot have control, and therefore increases existential fear.
Only by a reduction of needs can one promote a genuine reduction in those tensions which are the ultimate causes of strife and war.
Là 1 nhà kinh tế học với đầu óc quản lý xuất sắc, Schumacher đã nhìn nhận rõ ràng những vấn đề kinh tế xã hội của thời đại và ảnh hưởng của chúng đến môi trường sống. Thật đáng buồn là tới những năm 201x rồi, nhìn lại vẫn thấy khó hiểu tại sao có những người nhìn ra bản chất vấn đề và đề xuất giải pháp từ rất lâu nhưng thế giới chúng ta đang sống vẫn tụt dốc không phanh kể từ thập niên 80 đó.
Schumacher discourses on economics, through the prism of an ethics of care and respect for human dignity.
These include the absurdity of treating non-renewable resources as income instead of capital, the central importance of fulfilling work to human well-being and the need for an 'intermediate technology' to facilitate securing full employment.
The language is clear, free from jargon and meant to be understood by the lay person, so I'd recommend this to students and general readers"There are no 'final solutions' to this type of problem [corporate ownership and organisation, which should depend on size and circumstances].
Corporations and capitalism are evil. Blah blah blah. More simplistic garbage drenched in Eastern mythology. I appreciate the attempt of the author to save the world from consuming itself into its grave, but such an effort deserves far more academic rigor than that exemplified by this book.This was assigned to me in class long ago. Admirable, but forgettable.
It's amazing how old this idea is and yet how little we really take to heart. let us change.
Dated, Still Relevant The last great finical debacle, the one in 2007, is still affecting people the world over, but the affect is still heavy in American. I was personally affected, my wife and I both lost jobs. We have yet to recover from that. There was a snow storm a few weeks back. It occurred when the Polar Vortex slipped it’s usual spot over the North Pole and paid North America a visit. The company I work for is dependent upon trucks from Chicago based warehouses to fulfill the retail st
Schumacher called this thinking Buddhist Economics, in his words, "the aim ought to be to obtain the maximum amount of well being with the minimum amount of consumption." By not living this way we over work ourselves just so we can consume, and all that makes us human is shoved away so we can sit in a cubicle or waste away at a type of manual labor that destroys our bodies.
Instead, if we lived by Buddhist Economics, we would have more time and energy to be with people and spend more time producing that which makes us happy.
For the novice economist this book provides the language to understand and reflect on the economy and economic matters.
However, being reminded that issues such as depleting non-renewable fuel supplies, climate change and First World greed perpetuating and creating Third World poverty, are not recently created atrocities but have been apparent for decades and yet are still being denied by some, is somewhat depressing.I really enjoyed the book and will definitely reread chapters.
I would recommend to anyone thinking about giving this book a try.
I'm proud to add Small is Beautiful to the list of significant books I've read, but getting through Schumacher's economics classic was a long, hard slog for me.
Small is Beautiful is basically a book-length version of the dinner party where you get stuck sitting next to a person who wants to do nothing but tell you all his ideas and assertions about how terrible the world is today and what we should do to fix it.
Schumacher tries, but is just too non-specific to give the reader any concrete idea of what he's proposing.
Si je devais recommander un livre à lire pour critiquer l'économie de marché capitaliste et présenter une conception plus englobante et plus humaine de l'économie, pour moi Small is Beautiful vient en tête de liste.L'économie de surconsommation actuelle, qui s'impose de plus en plus en tant que principe d'État, comme véritable culture du pouvoir, inhumaine et destructrice de la nature commence à montrer de manière de plus en plus évidente ses failles et les périls qu'elle fait peser sur notre avenir.Pour Schumacher, l'économie est un phénomène humain qui doit avoir pour visée l'humain et non pas la croissance, la productivité ou encore l'innovation technologique.
This 1973 take on industrial and global economics is as applicable now as it was back then.
Schumacher, perhaps the first to develop the notion of natural capital, argues for both the virtues and necessity of a sustainable economy, and he examines insightfully (if broadly) the requirements for such an economy.
Schumacher tears apart the inhumanity and unsustainability of 1973 global capitalism.
But until the economic injustices are examined and righted, it seems little to no lasting progress can be made.If Gross National Product still makes financial headlines, if cities continue to fatten as attrition abandons the country to agro-business, if social parity and human rights are not integrated into governmental environmental policy, well...Schumacher says it better.
Schumacher provides a good criticism of the modern methods of production that resulted from the desacrilisation of nature and man.
Production relations that resulted in the alienation of man from his work and creative spirit, and the culture of mass production and mass consumption that led to the ruthless and violent exploitation of nature.
He rightly challenges the unsustainable path of accumulation and consumption and the Keynesian economic models that are built on the principles of market individualism and social non-responsibility.
He challenges the modern politics where economic growth has become the highest of all values and the human, cultural and ecological concerns have become subordinated to it.This isn't just romantic idealism.
I will admit to skimming a lot of this.
But the underlying message is one that I am fully convinced of: that "logical absurdity...destructive of civilization...[is] the pretense that everything has a price or, in other words, that money is the highest of all values" (48).
It reminds me a lot of the ridiculousness that many of my students repeat, the belief -- without actually thinking it through -- that the only reason anyone would do anything is because of money.
I bought that book very long time ago in India, in a cheap paperback edition.
It took me more than 20 years to pick it again, but when reading it, I was so suprised of its scientific approach and its deep originality, considering the book was written in the seventies.
It worked as an eye-opener to me and it strongly developed my interest in various approaches to green economy and and sustainable human activities.
I understand that the pace of our actual transition towards a sustainable way of life is way too low, when we consider the progress made since the seventees....
"The cultivation and expansion of needs is the antithesisof wisdom. It is also the antithesis of freedom and peace.Every increase of needs tends to increase one's dependenceon outside forces over which one cannot have control,and therefore increases existential fear. Only by areduction of needs can one promote a genuine reductionin those tensions which are the ultimate causes of strifeand war."
Granted, I only read 2 of the articles from this book, but I found the ideas there to be little more than Bono-esque bullshit (that is, Bono with regard to development issues--not Bono with regard to 'life').
