https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/527747.The_Wonderful_Flight_to_the_Mushroom_Planet
David and Chuck, two young boys living in California, build a backyard spaceship and jet off to the Mushroom Planet to help save that world, with the help of a rather strange but engagingly enthusiastic scientist in their town.
As a young teen, I loved the adventures of David and Chuck and their visit to the hidden planet of Basidium, whose beautiful blue-green color always intrigued me.
I can't speak to any of the sequels, but this book is a great retro trip for anyone who enjoys charming old-fashioned YA science fiction, and stands fine on its own.
I was not old enough to know or care about some of the science parts being really, really improbable...nay, impossible...as we had just been to the Moon and had recently landed a probe on Mars that put paid to even the dream of a Universe like the one Author Cameron created.
I loved revisiting Dave Topman and Chuck Masterson's flight to the impossible, tiny planet Basidium, all of 50,000 miles away.
It's starting to, but not quite yet does, blessedly.I would give this to a six-year-old and read it with her.
Maybe a slightly slow seven-year-old.
So maybe, if like me you read it in your tinyhood, you'll smile and enjoy and keep out of reach of children.
***Wanda’s Summer Carnival of Children’s Literature***I’m pretty sure that I was in Grade 6 when I first read this book.
I was also busy reading Children’s Digest during those years and I’m pretty sure that’s where I had been reading about mushrooms & fungi before encountering this little adventure.
I remember being completely enamoured of the Mushroom Planet and going on to make many spore prints from mushrooms found in a little grove of trees in my uncle’s pasture.
Flowers being pressed in the encyclopedia, mushrooms releasing their spores under jars, snails doing their thing in goldfish bowls).
The two boys take up items that they find and build a spaceship and go off to meet the man who put the ad in the paper, Mr. Tyco Bass.
Once they meet Mr. Bass and hear about the mysterious planet that he wants them to take off and explore, the story picks up.
With books like these, I often think they are easier to read as a child.
I think if I read this at age 10 I would have probably said cute story and went back to my Nancy Drew books.The setting of the "Mushroom Planet" was pretty funny.
Still a fav of mine since childhood. If you can find a copy, settle in for an evening's read and let the story take you back to a time when space exploration was new to America and something as magical as a tiny planet close to the earth could really exist undiscovered as yet. I totally love the style of the storytelling and Ms. Cameron's delightful characters. I think you will too.
Author Eleanor Cameron takes us for an adventurous ride alongside with two young boys named David and Chuck.
David and Chuck construct a small spaceship according to the rules and bring it to the advertiser, the mysterious scientist Mr. Bass.
After Mr. Bass gives them some advice and supplies the two boys set off to the Mushroom Planet.
David and Chuck meet some local residents of the mushroom planet who happen to be cousins of Mr. Bass.
David and Chuck take it upon themselves to help the local residents as their sole mission before returning back to Earth.
As the characters look at the moon and wonder what it would be like if we were able to send men there.
Might be an interesting conversation starter for an older person to explain to a kid what it was like before Apollo, looking at the moon and wondering, hoping some day we would get there.
And the excitement of watching those moon landings.The second was that as an adult, and perhaps kids more savvy and less willing to suspend disbelief than I had been, it's a bit hard to go with the premise of kids building a ship capable of space travel.But overall, a fun story.
David's father reads an unusual ad that is printed in green (bear in mind that in 1954 newspapers were black and white; well I wasn't born then as my mother was still growing up, but I remember when newspapers were always black and white) with an invitation for a boy or two boys between the ages of 8 and 11 to build a spaceship and to take it to a street his father doesn't recall ever seeing.
Lexile score of 1030 as it was written back when reading standards were higher than today.
I read Eleanor Cameron's The Wonderful Flight to the Mushroom Planet when I was a child.
Granted, at this point I see a lot of problematic areas where the author really didn't think things through.
(hide spoiler)] But it's still an enchanting story, filled with a sense of wonder, and they're both enjoying it quite a bit.We will be reading the sequel, Stowaway to the Mushroom Planet, together as well.
(The final scenes from that book also stayed in my mind a long, long time.) After that point, the series changed its focus and, I think, lost its way.
The boys are in for the experience of a lifetime.My first discovery of this series was in reading the second book.
Still, I find it wonderful that a book written before any real space exploration had occurred can still seem so futuristic.
Of course, some of the things the boys say are dated, and fewer houses receive newspapers, but the science is vague and crazy enough to still seem like it just might work.
I'm hoping to read this aloud to my third grade class to introduce them to science fiction and maybe even tie into their study of space.
I first heard about this book in  Mark A. Clements’s  The Land of Nod. Given how surreal Mark’s book was, I honestly expected that this was a made-up title. When I saw it in a San Diego bookstore, I had to have it.It is definitely a kid’s book; it’s also a lot of fun. And weird. No wonder Mark Clements is who he is if he read stuff like this as a kid.
A marvelous story, written at the dawn of the Space Age, about two boys who build a spaceship and travel to an alien world. It’s fantasy but surprisingly accurate in some of its science, and visionary in terms of its descriptions of viewing Earth from space. One star is docked for inevitable (it was 1954) sexism — I’d discuss that before handing this book to my daughters. But it’s easy to see how the book inspired a generation of children to a love of science fiction.
I hit the I'm finished switch about 24 hours early. There are no "Do Overs" on Good Reads. This was a very enjoyable little tale. It could have been written any time in the past sixty years, or so.

Title: The Wonderful Flight to the Mushroom PlanetAuthor: Eleanor CameronGenre: Science fictionTheme(s): Mystery, adventure, friendshipBrief Book summary: Two boys, Chuck and David, build their own spaceship and travel to the planet Basidium.
Professional Review 1: "The classic science fiction fantasy, about two boys and their space ship, and adventures on a planet found not far away from Earth.
There is a bizarre, almost dreamlike quality to the book itself, due at least in part to the juxtaposition of a strong and clear respect for and use of scientific approaches and terminology with truly mystical phenomena that cannot be explained by any science known to man.
Lo and behold, on my birthday, a few weeks after the conversation, my wife handed me a copy of it, neatly wrapped.It is a story of 2 boys building a rocket-ship and, under the tutelage of the mysterious Mr. Tyco Bass, flying to a tiny planet that no-one knows exists to save the people who live there.
And there is definitely a sense of magic and fantasy underlying the science-fiction elements of the story.Did it influence my future reading?
From there it was the worlds of science fiction and fantasy, which formed my primary reading during my late teen and early adult years.One thing.
Still just as good as when my fourth grade teacher read it to us in the late seventies.
Stirred the imagination of what a couple of kids could accomplish together.
Also good reading for the unconditional support the grownups offer to the children.
Still fun and cool even after all these years.
Kids eight to twelve should enjoy it still.
I enjoy it still of course because I am for all intents and purposes still somewhere between eight and twelve and probably always will be.
Going to read the other four in the series now.
Should be fun !!!
This was a childhood favorite, so I couldn't resist rereading it when I came across it on my library shelves.
I knew it might not be as magical as I remembered, but I decided to take the chance.
I'm glad I did!
This was a fun book to reread so many years later.
There were many details I hadn't remembered - even a few scientific details!
But my favorite and fondly remembered magical parts were all there.
I love that the spaceship just works (with the addition of Mr. Bass's inventions, of course!) and that the boys get to visit a tiny planet orbiting earth that no one else knows about.
Very magical.
This is a fun, quality read for my fifth-grade students.
The book is perfect for fourth grades or fifth graders who struggle as readers.
I loved David and Chuck explaining the scientific method to the clueless mushroom people as they used observations, theories, and experiments to solve the problem threatening the inhabitants of Mushroom Planet.
It would be great to accompany this read with a request that students look for a problem in their own community, then design an experiment to try out solutions.
What an opportunity for interdisciplinary studies and community involvement!
I literally haven't thought about this book in years, and today for no reason the whole story just pops into my head.
The whole thing; answering a newspaper ad for a spaceship, the "pheeeping" noise the oxygen tank makes, a screw-cap jar full of another planet's air, and saving the day with a chicken.
I'm shocked to see that this book was written back in the 50's; it was one of the more popular children's books in the 80's.
I need to sit down and re-read this one day, since it's one of the more surreal and magical children's books out there.
Written in the 1954, there's a nice "Gee whiz for space travel" air about the book and confidence in good old American know-how. Eleanor Cameron wrote a dozen books for children but is perhaps most famous for having declared "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory" to be "one of the most tasteless books ever written for children", "sadistic" and "phony." Dahl's response: "I would dearly like to see Ms. Cameron trying to read Little Women, or Robinson Crusoe for that matter to a class of today's children...."
Trippy sci-fi from the Atomic Age (1954) about two urchins who fly to a spore satellite called Basidium-X. I read this for the first time in over 30 years and could've sworn that the illustrations were in green ink but I guess my boyish imagination ran away with me. Now I have to read the entire series again.
This was the very first book that I ever purchased. I got it at a book fair that my school was holding. I loved the story then as now, and I still have that copy on my shelf. It reminds me of what a great adventure reading is, and why I love books so very much.
Una tía abuela me regaló este libro cuando tenía ocho años y lo leí por el simple hecho de que leía todo lo que caía en mis manos, pero la verdad me aburrió MUCHÍSIMO.
Great story! The Mushroom People in this story were not as much fun as the ones in the Toho film about their laughing Mushroom cousins, but you can't have everything.
David Topman, a little boy, wants a planet just his size to explore.
The ad was placed by Mr. Bass, a little old man who just might be from another planet.
A planet that's small, perfect for a little boy to explore.
There is an absurdly short time span on every action in the book - David and his friend Chuck must build their spaceship in a matter of days, they can only stay on the planet for 2 hours, etc.
Highlight of the story: (view spoiler)[ Mr. Bass being a spore person that just blew away to another adventure.
Cameron's story is a great read for children.
The readers are able to expand there imagination through mushroom planets, rocket ships suitable for children, and the mysterious sicknesses slowly bringing the natives on the planet to extinction.
Science fiction is a perfect genre for children to read.
Using this story to expand a child's imagination is a great way.
I believe this book is a great way to enhance a child's reading ability.
Another great reason this book is so well for child is, its a comfortable read allowing the reader to stay attached to the plot.
i read this book in 3rd grade.
i remember it being the kind of book i'd race home after school to read; one i would look forward to reading after dinner, or on the weekend, but before doing my homework.
i may re-read this even though it's a children's book, to see what it was about it i found SO fascinating at the time.
the series of books (after and including this one) were reasonably short as i remember but my hometown's small library never got the ones after the third.
i doubt i'll take the time to read the ones after the third, something i was SO eager to do in my youth.
This was a fun children's book that I struggled with a bit now, but I know I would've loved as a child.David and Chuck are best friends who are enlisted to help the mysterious Mr. Bass build a spaceship to save the people of Mushroom Planet.
David and Chuck were fun, the storyline was intriguing, and the plot, while simple, was enjoyable.The problem was that I was far too old for this book.
I thought the perspectives on space travel were interesting and I'd be interested in seeing how children's sci-fi books changed pre- and post-real life space travel.Recommended for 7-8 year olds with an interest in science fiction.
The science fictional and fantasy book “The Wonderful Flight to the Mushroom Planet” (Mushroom Planet #1) by Eleanor Cameron is a hit!
I would recommend this book for young children who are into chapter books or young adults.
This book is very interesting and pulls and hold the reader’s attention from the start.
Even the front cover of the book just makes you want to grab it off of the shelf and read it to find out what it is about.
It will be a book you will always love and recommend to your children.
