https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1650575.Understanding_and_Using_English_Grammar
Ok weather you are an English student or you want to gain grammatical points and notes during your English class this book has something unforgettable in a such way!I mean with lots of grammatical ideas,ways to remember most forgetting rules like articles and verb tenses,get the most out of this book keeps you safe in your way in english!
The single most helpful book in my ESL training and grammar teaching repertoire. I first used this in a pedagogical grammar course in grad school and have used it (and several other books in the series) for something like twenty years. While Azar has her detractors, students love the easy-to-consult grammar tables and the plentiful exercises. A more recent edition contains the answer key in the back of the book, which is a particularly useful feature.
Bravo! This book is my milestone I confidence with my English, no matter anybody say. This book teach me when I'll enroll magisterial, I read repeatedly this book because I didn't pass the English exam. Until I can reach it and be a magisterial student in Favorite University in Indonesia.
The easier book to understand English Grammar.
قویا توصیه می کنم
A very useful book on grammar; it is essential reference for any learner of English language. The illustrations provided in the book further clarify the grammatical rules. I enjoyed reading it doing its exercises.
I have been using this book with Upper Intermediate and Lower Advanced Students for the past 3 years and recommend it to other teachers.
good for your english reference.
This is the most thorough, well-thought-out grammar book I've ever used as an English teacher. Each chapter nicely scaffolds knowledge with a large variety of simple to gradually more complicated activities, with quite a few conversation exercises thrown in. At times, I actually have trouble choosing just a few key exercises out of the very large number provided for us.
My "ESL/EFL" bible. Azar's as sound as they come.
not bad
Excellent book for the English learner and for the native English speaker at the same time!
Read & owned. whether you have taken English in the past, this book can help you out to remember the structures of grammar from any level.
recommended for teacher, student and anyone who wants to study English structurally...beginners, intermediate and advanced...GRAMMAR ORIENTED...so...better be followed with others focusing on the conversation
it;s my fAbarit
i am think well
nice book,,
I like the book
This was the textbook we used for our TESL course. We went through it from cover to cover. For a native english speaker who acquired English without really learning the grammar rules, this book is a godsend. I have even used some of the activities in my advanced grammar classes - the students love the format (as do I). Everything is explained so well...it is the most useful (and used) book on my bookshelf. Love it!
For students and teachers alike, it gives wonderfully succinct and easy-to-understand descriptions of various rules and elements of grammar - semicolons, verb tenses, everything - as well as an abundance of exercises and activities that would be great for individual students (especially ELA students) or daily warm-ups.
I haven't listened to the audio CD yet, but I imagine that it is also a great resource, especially (again) for ELA students.
Again, not really an in-class textbook, but wonderful to have on hand for reference or from which to draw exercises/warm-ups/etc.
I'm just wrapping up my teaching practicum, and this is the textbook that both of practicum classes use. My classes are intermediate ESL students. I liked the textbook overall- it had some good activities and summaries, though it falls in the usual trap of using technical words and long descriptions to teach grammar (probably meant for native speakers, but not as approachable for ESL speakers). This is a good book to use as the bedrock of a course, but you will want to spice it up with other activities and projects.
frm where should i read this?
garramer english
Buku wajib waktu kuliah
amazing book
Excellent grammar explanations. Less than perfect exercises. The students should get the book with the answers in the back so that they can repeat the exercises on their own.
iwgigfi
fine
