https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/612478.The_Golden_Ball_and_Other_Stories
A delightful collection of short stories by Agatha Christie. None of the stories feature any of her characters like Poirot, Miss Marple, Mr. Quinn of Parker Pyne. Despite that stories have intrigue and keep you glued till the end. One of the stories seems to be inspiration behind the Japanese movie-Grudge. One story features James Bond as well, though only the name is common.
Saruman Christopher Lee's narration needed some getting used to, he's got that old-world echo thing going on.Hugh Fraser, on the other hand, was a fantastic rout from the get-go.
Those who came from 'the right lineage' or old money, regardless of how poor they were, remained dignified and were handed their happy endings, while those from lower classes would behave in a less-than-tasteful manner regardless of how rich they were.But the short stories do bring you to a time when characters behaved like classical fictional characters, and the silly stories (those read by Hugh Fraser) were light-hearted escapism.
The stories read by Christopher Lee were either serious or spooky, plus his narration could get boring at times, like listening to a Victorian-age principal (not that I'd know how such a person would sound like).
The Golden Ball and Other Short Stories by Agatha Christie is fun and light reading for the Christie fan.Great if you're short on time, or want something quick to read, these stories are lighter than her longer works, and have less character development, but are good, traditional mysteries.I particularly enjoyed A Fruitful Sunday, and The Listerdale Mystery.
Instead, we see Christie explore themes of romance, suspense, and the supernatural, sometimes with a flavor of mystery or a crime of passion involved.
I found some of the stories, notably The Listerdale Mystery (in which the lovers are not who you expect), to be quirkily charming, but I would never have guessed that any of them were written by Agatha Christie.
These stories have the value of showing the average Christie fan, who may not have read any Westmacotts, the softer side of Agatha.
Fifteen Agatha Christie short stories. A mixture of romance mysteries with Christie's plucky heroine and horror/supernatural.-The Listerdale Mystery-The Girl in The Train-The Manhood of Edward Robinson-Jane in Search of a Job-A Fruitful Sunday-The Golden Ball-The Rajah's Emerald-Swan Song-The Hound of Death-The Gypsy-The Lamp-The Strange Case of Sir Arthur Carmichael-The Call of Wings-Magnolia Blossom-Next to a Dog
I am a big fan of Agatha Christie, but this collection was very hit or miss for me, mostly miss. Not a real mystery in the bunch although a couple of decent old style thrillers. The rest were IMHO silly romances that relied on ridiculous coincidences or supernatural fantasy tales that didn’t work at all. Two stories that I enjoyed: Swan Song—an excellent thriller and Magnolia Blossom which in a way reminded me of Ibsen’s A Doll’s House.
I was very surprised and pleased.15 Stories:1.
The Listerdale Mystery: A woman in desperate straits finds a good home2.
The Girl on the Train: A young woman jumps on a train making a fast escape3.
The Golden Ball: A young man ousted by his uncle makes good7.
The Raja's Emerald: A spurned young man makes good after finding a stolen emerald8.
The Gipsy: A young man and a Gipsy that is ever present warning him of danger11.
The Strange Case of Arthur Carmichael: A young man in a trance acting very strangely and a grey ghost cat13.
I haven't read short stories since I don't remember when. All these stories were by the same author. Some I really liked, some I could take or leave but they were well written. Different, found myself just getting into the story and characters and it was done. Overall, good.
I liked the beginning stories better than the ones later on, but overall a very good sample of Agatha Christie :) My favorite story was "The Girl In The Train." I wuvs George!
For example, a character with oriental heritage is assumed to know or be able to use ancient magic simply because she has oriental blood.I will say that I could see several of these stories drawn out and turned into decent episodes of a TV show or even movies, but in book form they failed to enthrall me.
Plus, most of the stories had rather obvious endings and there was none of the mystery elements that Christie is usually associated with.If you're looking for a fictional collection of mysterious, unexplained occurrences or enjoy stories of people stumbling their way into a single wild event that they'll tell the story of for the rest of their lives, then this is for you.
The first book of Christie short stories I had read. This is a mixed bag. I really got the sense that I was observing a beginning writer trying to explore directions, techniques, and topics. Many of these stories are like her typical mystery novels, though the end of the volume the stories veer into the supernatural. I really felt the influence of Henry James toward the end of the volume.There are some touching stories and many that are forgettable.
Nothing really appealed to me.
1971, another of the 1970s collections of her early short stories, this has fifteen; eleven of them were first published in magazines in the 1920s, and the only information I can find for the other four is that they appear to have been first published in the short story collection THE HOUND OF DEATH, 1933, (UK only). Includes [date= when first published]:1925 12 The Listerdale Mystery apa The Benevolent Butler— wonderfully sweet little gem of a Cinderella tale, Christie-style, and one of my favo
1924 06	The Hound of Death— "Angel of Mons"-type creepy story, with apocalyptic overtones, stilted and easily predictable, but still powerful1933		The Gipsy apa The Gypsy— creepy reincarnation tale, nicely resolved1933		The Lamp — classic haunted-house story, very dark, almost Victorian in tone, with extremely powerful ending1933		The Strange Case of Sir Arthur Carmichael— extremely traditional - and sentimental - ghost story/murder mystery; beautifully set-up and written but ending weak, although it likely seemed shockingly powerful in 19331933		The Call of Wings— creepy supernatural tale of a man with everything - and nothing!
Most single-author short story mystery collections are full of similar stories.
It also isn't full of typical mysteries, either.The first set of stories have some similar themes - young celebrity women in disguise, stolen jewels, plenty of misdirection, unlikely romances.
They're also about human nature, temptation and self-concept as much as crime and detection.
I would give them 4 stars.The second group are all ghost stories in one form or another, which I don't like.
The doctor/detective in "The Strange Case of Sir Arthur" was particularly dense.
lol This set get 2 stars.The last two stories aren't ghost stories and I wouldn't call them mysteries, either.
I like the first half part of the book (in Indonesian translation, most of them are taken from the Listerdale Mystery) - they're hilarious, full of great sense of humor, witty and surprising, they remind me of delightful stories by Roald Dahl. But the second half of the book is too full of supernatural stories (taken from The Hound of Death), and I don't enjoy them as much as the first half part of the book. I wish Christie wrote more hilarious stories. She really had great sense of humor!
A very good collection of short stories from the Queen of Mystery. Standout stories are "The Strange Case of Sir Andrew Carmichael" which concerns a murder plot and the ghost of a gray cat and "Next to a Dog", not a mystery story but a simple, well told tale of a girl at her wits end, who has only the love of her dog to keep her going.
Wow. This was not what I expected from Agatha Christie! Nice mix of stories here- some "mysteries" here but instead of making them a full novel, she cut to the chase and explained them right away. I was surprised to see so much romance and even subjects touching on the occult. Some of the stories were sad but most were filled with hope.
Very different than other stories by Agatha Christie.I enjoyed the lighter side and the unexpected endings.Fifteen stories deal with a mysterious benefactor, a young woman in hiding, switched cars, an unusual job listing, a secret test for suitors, and a stolen emerald.
Overall the book was interesting and a different genre than i usually read
A great collection of Christie stories - a perfect mix of mystery, humor, romance, and the supernatural.
Uneven but interesting. It is probably only a 3 star book, but have to give Dame Agatha the benefit of the doubt.
Just an OK collection. The first half of the stories all seemed to end up Happily Ever After and the second half of the stories were a little darker and spookier.
2 x HEA.) 2 The Girl in the Train - Dashing heir George Rowland booted from job by hitherto-generous uncle, given packet and orders to follow man by mysterious Elizabeth fleeing Germanic uncle.2* (Elizabeth took red hat and drew pursuit in place of her brother's fiancée and upon explanation George proposes.
1* horror (Rose's diary shows hunger for power, sent to Anstruther after docter and Marie destroyed by landslide, same night greedy villain's wealthy uncle struck by lightning, rockfall and burn both shaped like hound.) 10 The Gipsy - McFarlane meets Mrs Hawthorne, after pal Dickie dies despite her warnings, both have the Sight.
The characters in each are so delightful that even when the stories get sappy or ridiculously cliched, you know Christie had to be writing with tongue firmly in cheek, and it's impossible to not still love the stories.The Rajah's Emerald, Swan Song, and The Strange Case of Sir Arthur Carmichael are not favorites but still usually get a re-read.
Rajah's Emerald and Carmichael, I more skim than read.Stories I didn't enjoy and tend to skip on rereads would be The Hound of Death, The Gypsy, The Lamp and The Call of Wings - I've never enjoyed Christie's forays into the occult/psychic/ghost story type realms, so these unfortunately just bore me to tears.
were these short stories mysteries???
I got bogged down in the second half when the stories took a weirdly mystical turn.
Of the last seven I want the minutes I spent reading "The Hound of Death" back as well as "The Call of Wings".
I'm a little bit at a loss as to how/why these stories were hobbled together.*Ahhhh, so I just read some other reviews and it seems that this is a collection of some of her early short stories.
After reading these I'm glad she left the mysticism alone (mostly) later on.*

Don't come to this expecting typical whodunit style mysteries. The first half (more or less - 7 of 15) are stories with some kind of mistaken identity, either of people or objects. Some have a supernatural / spiritualist angle. Four of the last eight I had previous listened to as BBC adaptations (in the "modernized" series). Another element in multiple stories: complete novice drivers. Was there a period of time when people could just go buy a car with absolutely no training or prior experience? I get the impression there was! Is that how licensing came about??
As with any compilation of short stories (especially 15 of them), these are a bit of a hit or miss.  Some of the mysteries are very well done, but others didn't The real mystery stories felt like other Agatha Christie books, but there were quite a few that felt more like romantic comedies? Not that they weren't good - just unexpected, and didn't seem to fit with the others.Audiobook note: It threw me off when they switched narrators partway through the book. Not sure why they changed.
Four stars for the sweet romance mysteries (stories 1 to 8 and 14-15), and two stars for the supernatural ones (9 to 13), which are also part of The Hound of Death and other stories.EDIT: Funny thing, before the times of the political correctness and before Hitler, she could get away with anti-semitic remarks such as:-"several miles of picturesque bungalows belonging to fashionable actresses, rich Jews and those members of the English aristocracy who had married wealthy wives" (THE RAJAH’S EMERALD)- "It required no stretch of imagination to realize that his father’s name had probably been Cohen." (SWAN SONG)
Christie was a prolific short story writer as well as a novelist. Many periodicals sought out her short stories as they knew she would always send them quality. Here we have 15 tales of mystery, human drama, the supernatural and above all English tongue in cheek humour. A fine collection from 1924 thru 1934.
