https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239917.Sign_of_the_Unicorn
This book finds him trying to understand was was going on since the time he regained his memory - it turns out his fatal auto accident holds clues to present situation.It does not help that the royal siblings are found of sticking knives into each other's backs at a drop of a hat.
In fact the book ends in one big question: what did those people find?
This combined with great writing and the ability to cram lots of ideas into measly 140 pages makes the series unmatched classic.
Can anybody name a great modern fantasy book which take less than 500 pages?
Despite all that, I considered them to be 4 star novels.As good as those novel were, Sign of the Unicorn was that much better.
This is the novel that made me understand why Amber is considered a classic series.Going into the third novel, I thought I had a pretty good handle for what was going on, but, damn, was I wrong.
You find out what all of Corwin's siblings were up to and it turns out that the story you thought you knew is actually way more complicated and interesting.The members of Amber's ruling family are a scheming and conniving bunch and they were were not idle while Corwin had his adventures in the first two novels.
"...inside stories seldom live up to one’s expectations.
It is 3/10 in the Chronicles of Amber decalog, or 3/5 in the Corwin pentalogy.
A bulk of the novel centers on a family meeting (a meeting of siblings) in Amber.
It allows for stories to get told, and more of the background of what is going on to gradually unfold.
Good enough that I have no issue coming back to it between other reads, but I'll have to decide if I want to just read the pentalogy or if I'll actually read the entire decalog.
3.5 stars. Good, solid installment to the excellent Amber series by Zelazny. I didn't like this one quite as much as the first two installments mainly because, until the very end, nothing really new happened that added significantly to the storyline begun in the first two. Still, a fun and fast read with Zelazny's typical elegant prose.
Finally, here, Zelazny writes with authority and a sense of clarity about the characters he portrays.
We have a lot of people to keep track of, with Corwin and his brothers and sisters involved in an intricate series of shifting alliances, schemes, and deceptions.
We must rely on Corwin, our protagonist, to filter what is happening into something that makes sense.
And, with patience, this does happen.I'm very bad at reading stories with a large number of characters who come and go.
And this time, I finished the book looking forward to the next one, wanting to know what will happen next.
This first hardcover edition is signed by Roger Zelazny.
3 stars. I enjoyed this one a little more than the previous two because we got to see all of the siblings together, which made for a "Clue" board game who-done-it feeling.
I would rather have Sign of the Unicorn than all the boys in the Valleys.-- Among Others
Посетете отново Амбър, загадъчна земя на приключения и романтика. Амбър, единственият истински свят. Всички останали светове, дори и Земята, са само негови Сенки - „Хрониките на Амбър – том 1” от Роджър Зелазни! Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле": https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
Ben bu evrene bir türlü adapte olamadım. Sorunun bende olduğunu düşünüyorum. Yanlış zamanda başlamış olabilirim.
These stories slow the action but serve to enlighten us further about Amber, the Shadow worlds, how the trumps and the pattern work, the alliances between the siblings, how Corwin lost his memories, and what may have happened to their father Oberon.
Things slow down a bit during this installment while the siblings tell their stories, but there are lots of revelations and plot twists to make up for that.
In fact, go ahead and get the fifth book, The Courts of Chaos, because the end of The Hand of Oberon is a doozy, too.I read the entire CHRONICLES OF AMBER twenty years ago and am re-reading them now that they’ve been produced by Audible Frontiers.
This book is a lot different to the previous 2 in the series.
Sign of the Unicorn reads more as a mystery, 'whodunit' novel.
The overall plot for the series builds very little until nearer to the end and so the book felt somewhat like a filler.
(view spoiler)[I thought it was blindingly obvious who the culprit was too.
The only big surprise was right at the end when Corwin & co.
(hide spoiler)]Nevertheless, I had fun reading it simply because I enjoy the characters.
We get to know a little more about Corwin's brothers and sisters, and there are a couple new appearances.
Rezension | Im Zeichen des Einhorns von Roger Zelazny Beschreibung Nachdem Corwin nun endlich wieder an die Regentschaft Ambers gelangt ist gerät er selbst in den Prüfstand.
Die Geschwister kommen in Amber zusammen um den Mörder zu entlarven, dabei spitzt sich die Angelegenheit rasant zu und endet schließlich mit einem Attentat auf Corwin.
Die komplexe Fantasywelt von Amber hat mich wieder ein Stückchen mehr in ihren Bann gesogen und hinterlässt mit einem Cliffhanger den Wunsch direkt weiter zu lesen.
Putting this book down for about a week to attend to others, I found, when I returned to it, that I could not remember much of the action, and still less of the action and outcomes of the two novels preceding it, which I finished (for the first time) less than two months ago.It was my intention to read all nine Amber books, but I think I'll just give up now.
The characters and their activities are futile to the last degree, since nearly every one of them could live as a god in a world of their own creation; Zelazny's attempt (in this book, IIRC) to explain away this fatal flaw in his plot superstructure is unconvincing to say the least.What a disappointment Amber has turned out to be.
Somehow I missed Zelazny.
Spoilers for the first two ahead.Corwin arrives at Random's door with the news that another of their brothers had died: Caine was murdered under circumstances that make it clear Corwin was to be framed.
In fact, the reason he's at Random's door is that the killer was the same sort of being as attacked Random in Nine Princes, and he needs that support.Corwin, in fact, has decided that he can not be crowned without evidence their father is dead, and that the black road is not the top priority, which must be finding their brother Brand.
This one took a turn for the awesome.
It started pretty slow - Random took a chapter as narrator that seemed to drag.
Not only did the story get a lot more compelling and suspenseful, (the whole family is assembled in one room for a Clue style whodunit,) the writing in the last 2/3 grew a lot more taut.
Like other reviews have said, the story finally seemed to come into focus for Zelazny a little ways into the 3rd book, and his writing seemed much more inspired as a result.
Quite simply, this series is getting good.In Sign of the Unicorn, Zelazny continues the story of Corwin and his struggles to secure Amber.
While I definitely enjoyed the first two books, in SOTU I could hardly put the thing down (at right around 150 pages, it's rather light in the hand too - or would be, if I wasn't reading books 3-5 in one volume).
Now, it would have been maddening if the 4th book wasn't immediately available, but when a book ends and you're saying to yourself, "Wow, I can't believe he just - Wow!" it's always a good thing.
This is the third book of the Chronicles of Amber which feature Corwin as the hero. It was excellent. The Amber universe is further revealed, mysteries abound & deepen. The book does end on a cliff hanger. If you get this far into the 5 book series, you simply have to finish it out now.The writing style is still the same & Corwin is still a most likable hero. He's not perfect, but he is tough & pragmatic. He's facing a lot of tough decisions, but takes them in stride. Can't wait to read the next!
The story of this time-traveling, in-fighting and incestuous family dressed in anachronistic  medieval attire really hit its stride in this volume. The pacing and political intrigue are tight and complex, yet comprehendible. The things revealed by twists are unforeseen and captivating. If you've read the first book or two and wondered what all the hoopla was about (the series has appeared on many Best Of awards lists and name-checked as an influence by a healthy number of talented writers, Neil Gaiman among them), stick with it and you'll probably be rewarded at this point.
The middle book in the original Amber quintet is mostly info dumps designed to firm up the remaining storyline as Corwin's siblings bring him up to date on what they've been doing while apart from him. New friends, foes and settings are introduced throughout. There are a few noteworthy events though in addition to all the catch-up, especially the murder that opens the book as well as the ending which presumably sets the stage for the final two installments.
Проковтнула за один день. У "Хроніках Амбера" якась неймовірна магія, яка не відпускає і не піддається здоровому глузду.
holy cliffhanger BATMAN!
Another fun book in this series. This one was more of a mystery fantasy novel and the ending was a unexpected. I can't wait to start the 4th one.
Terzo volume delle Cronache di Ambra, e il più chiaro fin qua.Dopo la psichedelia dei primi due libri, tra rivelazioni di multiversi, Ambra e le ombre, Avalon, Oberon e faide famigliari tra principi potentissimi, in questo terzo libro il ritmo rallenta e si fa un poco il punto della situazione.Corwin è il difensore del trono, dopo la morte di Eric sul campo di battaglia, ma si trova a dover fronteggiare diversi pericoli.La strada nera che riversa le Corti del Caos su Ambra e su tutte le ombre lungo il cammino, certo, ma ci sono anche altre minacce: cosa è successo a re Oberon?
In The Sign of the Unicorn Corwin begins to learn just how little he truly understands of what has been going on in Amber since he began his lengthy sojourn on earth.
Amber is threatened by a force King Oberon did not understanding and it quickly becomes apparent that it is Oberon’s children—the princes and princesses of Amber—who are responsible for the kingdom’s danger.
This book will keep you spellbound as each new revelation forces you to reexamine what you—and Corwin—thank you know about who actually has the best interests of Amber at heart.
I'm actually reading The Great Book of Amber but I had this one in paperback so I took a book from the big 'un to read this.
He repeats that here, sometimes with tremendous effect as things you may have disregarded as "color" turn out to be significant in the state of affairs of Amber.I admire this book tremendously (as well as enjoying it): Every section comes down to either a character study, an action set piece, a plot exposition set-up/twist (usually done very succinct and effective fashion), and then the sections of "shadow traveling" which is (at its best) interesting and poetic.
Corwin, printr-o stranie întorsătură de situație, este mai aproape ca oricând de a deveni regele Amberului. Totuși, blestemul aruncat asupra fratelui său îl obligă să-și schimbe prioritățile. Zelazny reușește un nou volum excelent. Mi-au plăcut întorsăturile de situație, dar și modul în care sunt descrise emoțiile și sentimentele eroului. Zelazny este, de multe ori, un poet, plin de sensibilitate și foarte atent la detalii.
Šī grāmata nebija slikta, bet lielākoties man atgādināja Erkila Puaro izmeklēšanu. Lai arī bija ļoti interesantas lietas un pavērsieni, lēta krimiķa smaka mani nepameta. Protams, tas nav iemesls, lai sēriju neturpinātu, jo jāuzzina vēl tik ļoti daudz.
Random's chapter wasn't pretentious like Corwin's narratives had been, but it was self-deprecating and funny while still relaying important plot information and building the universe of the novels.
Bottom line though is that I can't tell either way after I've read 3 books and my first theory might just be me rationalizing a poorly written storyConclusion: I liked the fact that Corwin wasn't running around like an infallible Classical Greek hero every second of the novel, the change of perspective that Random offered in chapter 2, and that Zelazny finally answered questions that have been left unanswered since the first page of book one.
Really liked this entry in the series. Lots of intrigue and action. Finally, some answers about who did what to whom, and some more bread crumbs to follow about the end game.I still think there are way to many paragraphs of description, but I do enjoy some of Zelazny's references to other works.
