https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23603.Tales_from_the_Perilous_Realm
Tolkien is often remembered for his vast fantasy worlds but he also wrote simple things, shorter works more in touch with the humorous themes of The Hobbit rather than the sense of darkness that permeates The Lord of the Rings.
Other than that, I’d say that this one is likely to appeal more to the serious Tolkien enthusiast rather than the casual fan.Farmer Giles of Ham This is a great little tale full of bravery, heroism and Tolkien’s ever so subtle humour.
No sé porqué he tardado tanto en leer estos relatos, quizás porque no esperaba gran cosa de ellos pero me he llevado una buena sorpresa. Me ha gustado MUCHÍSIMO 'El Herrero de Wootton Mayor', 'Hoja de Niggle' también es una preciosidad, y 'Las aventuras de Tom Bombadil' (aunque en verso) son un complemento perfecto para leer tras 'El señor de los anillos'.Los otros dos relatos me parecieron simplemente entretenidos pero todos tienen algo de original y único que solo Tolkien podía crear
This collection of Tolkien's shorter works (Farmer Giles of Ham, Leaf By Niggle, The Adventures of Tom Bombadil, and Smith of Wootton Major) rely on England's "tales of yore" and its faery-filled past.
Their whimsical nature echos the more fanciful scenes in The Hobbit, but beyond that - and obviously the inclusion of Bombadil in Fellowship - there is little resemblance to these short works and his epics.
(For something in the middle, one might try Tolkien's Sir Gawain and the Green Knight.)No, the depth, the thrill and (for better or worse) the gravitas of LotR and The Silmarillion is lacking here.
If you're looking for more ME, try something like the Unfinished Tales collection.
Ya había leido antes, mucho antes, los cuentos Egidio el Granjero de Ham, El Herrero de Wootom Mayor, y Hoja de Niggle (lejos, mi favorito <3 ) que son fabulosos.Roveradom, lo vi por ahi en este sitio, y es más bien para niños, como dice una de esas historias inventadas para uno de sus hijos. Muy fantasioso, valga la redudancia, sencillo y hermoso.(view spoiler)[Arte de Alan Lee (hide spoiler)] (el Hombre de la Luna)—¿Qué hace él solo todo el día? —dijo Roverandom a Rover. —¿Hacer? —dijo el p
Ya había leido antes, mucho antes, los cuentos Egidio el Granjero de Ham, El Herrero de Wootom Mayor, y Hoja de Niggle (lejos, mi favorito <3 ) que son fabulosos.Roveradom, lo vi por ahi en este sitio, y es más bien para niños, como dice una de esas historias inventadas para uno de sus hijos.
Después estan poemas de Tom Bombadil, y de otras cosas,  (Arte de Alan Lee)algunos más interesantes que otros.
Por eso, y más allá de la hermosa edición (mucho mejor la de Minotauro), se me hace más correcta la presentación que hizo Harper en Inglaterra consistente en un pequeño boxset con todas estas obras (minus el ensayo - pero sin el ensayo no vale mucho).Entonces, lo que hace más sentido como en toda colección es ver la valía individual de cada uno de los cuentos y ponderar al final.Roverandom es una novela corta infantil.
Si bien es whimsy y por momentos encantadora, se habría beneficiado mucho de un formato aparte, con muchas más ilustraciones de parte del infaltable Sr Lee. Es como para leérselo a los niños en voz alta y quizá el relato que menos tiene que ver con la colección.
Life's tough.Buy anyway.
This is a funny book (I mean...
It's hard to sum it up - to be honest, each of the fairytales deserves its own rating.
But like I said, life can be tough, so we'll just have to do with a single one.I liked most of these fairytales (and hey, you already know which one I didn't like).
The book is also illustrated very nicely.
The stories are all so different - ranging from a truly children's story (about an enchanted puppy, turned into a toy) to a nearly metaphysical story about death and afterlife, the completion of one's life's work.
Tanto tiempo sin leer a mi amado Tolkien."Fantasía es una tierra peligrosa, con trampas para los incautos y mazmorras para los temerarios"Cuentos desde el Reino Peligroso es una compilación que nos presenta cinco historias escritas por Tolkien a lo largo de su vida, algunas narradas originalmente de forma oral a sus propios hijos antes de ser ampliadas para su publicación y otras tantas escritas por sobre pedido de sus editores.
Ademas contiene una introducción de Tom Shippey y un apéndice en el que aparece un ensayo también de Tolkien.
Las aventuras de Tom Bombadil: Completamente diferente a los anteriores esta tercera parte del libro está formada por poemas/canciones.
I'm not sure they should all be combined.Anyway, today this arrived -- since my first copy, most irritatingly, did not include 'Roverandom', which is a fun story aimed at younger readers than the others, involving the adventures of a puppy who gets turned into a toy, and his marvellous journeys.
The illustrator is Alan Lee, about whom I probably have to say very little -- I think his drawings capture the things and mood described pretty well, for this volume.
This edition also has an introduction, which helps contextualise each story and draw out a few things of interest.
It includes 'On Fairy-Stories', as well.I think one of the most charming things about Tolkien's fairy tales is the lack of moralising.
Cada uno de los cuentos que aparecen en este libro son una muestra de la maestría de Tolkien como narrador y creador de mundos. Y respecto al ensayo: "On Fairy-Stories" (Sobre los Cuentos de Hadas), repetiré lo que escribí en twitter esta mañana: debería ser lectura obligatoria para cualquiera que pretenda escribir (y leer) Fantasía en serio. Yo me demoré demasiado (más de lo justificable) pero creo que aún no es demasiado tarde.
Много добър сборник с разкази на Толкин.
В интерес на истината, най-много ми допадна „Фермера Джайлс от Емз”, също харесах и „Роувърандъм”, което беше леко изненадващо за мен, защото този разказ си е типично детски.
От Бомбадил очаквах малко повече, все пак е един от най-митичните и интересни герои на Толкин.
„Ковача от Голямо Омайно” ми беше най-безинтересен от всичките, но все пак, сигурен съм, ще допадне на някои хора.
И последно - „Листо от Дребносръчко”, който също беше доста добър, с подчертан биографичен елемент.
О, и няма как да не спомена есето „За вълшебните приказки”, което излиза за първи път на български в този сборник.
This edition seems to be combined with other editions that have different content -- mine contains only four stories: 'Farmer Giles of Ham', 'The Adventures of Tom Bombadil', 'Leaf by Niggle', and 'Smith of Wootton Major'.
Possibly best read along with 'On Fairy-Stories', which some editions also contain.'Farmer Giles of Ham' is fun -- closer in tone to The Hobbit than Lord of the Rings.
I wasn't so keen on 'The Adventures of Tom Bombadil' -- I prefer Tolkien's prose to his poetry, for the most part.
'Leaf by Niggle' is rather more allegorical than I expected of Tolkien, and rather magical.
Lepo i potrebno izdanje koje objedinjuje sve nezavisne priče inspirisane keltskim i staroengleskim folklorom, kao i pesme o Tomu Bombadilu. Autentične ilustracije prvih, pojedinačnih izdanja svake od pripovesti su, takođe, zadržane i u ovom izdanju.
I know that his writing style and the structure and complexity of his narratives isn't for everyone, but this man and the worlds he has created have slowly but surely stolen their way into my heart.Tales from the Perilous Realm is a collection of three short stories set outside of the realm of Middle Earth and one poetry collection featuring legends and jests of the Shire at the end of the Third Age. I was prepared for many things but not for the level of wit and charm which Tolkien displayed in these tales.
Iskreno, ocekivao sam vise od ove Knjige. Pjesme o Tomu Bombadilu su simpaticne ali mi nekako nisu sjele ovako u stihovima. Prica o slikaru, ocekivao sam puno vise od tako divne ideje za pricu, ok je, ali nista vise. A one druge dvije....Uglavnom nazalost samo trojka po meni. Smrc....
Not bad, quaint wee stories but not on par with his famous works
Tales from the Perilous Realm  on audiobook was a delight. It's a BBC production, done up with sound effects and theatrical narration. It makes you feel like a child listening your grandfather tell you tall tales about the fantastical. I'm so glad I chose this for 1971 book read! :) The book is the telling of four of JRR Tolkien's fairy tales."Farmer Giles of Ham"Farmer Giles is a plump farmer living his quiet life in his village, Ham. One day a giant comes into his village and Giles manages to
Rating: 4★'A fabulous tale of the days when giants and dragons walked the kingdom' - SUNDAY TIMES"Leaf by Niggle"This story begins with the narrator telling us that every leaf on a tree holds a unique tale.
Rating: 3★'Whoever reads it at eight will no doubt still be going back to it at eighty' - NEW STATESMAN"The Adventures of Tom Bombadil"The story begins with Froto Baggins and hobbit friends heading off on their mission to destroy the One Ring.
Knowing they must return to their mission, Froto and the hobbits ask Tom Bombadil to come with them.
This review has been edited to fit right in line with Goodreads' reviewing principles. As such there are no:1. Hints to any potential censorship2. Off topic digressions3. Personal mentions of the author (just to be on the safe side)If you want the better review, it can be found at my Booklikes profile: http://headspinningfromvagueness.book... In a serious effort to remain on-topic, for fear of this review not being marketable and so on, I must first say that only one selection in this volume li
I can then say that Middle Earth is one of my favourite book worlds to read more about, it should be obvious from my Gandalf profile picture.
Really good children's story that should be read.Farmer Giles of Ham: 5 starsFat farmer becomes a hero thanks to talking dog.
Definitely a story that should be read by people somewhere.The Adventures of Tom Bombadil: 4 starsPoetry about Tom Bombadil and fairies.
Another story that is good for you to read.
Really, really good short story.
In "Leaf By Niggle," J.R.R. Tolkien describes a painting that the artist Niggle has been working on:It had begun with a leaf caught in the wind, and it became a tree; and the tree grew, sending out innumerable branches, and thrusting out the most fantastic roots...
Soon the canvas became so large that he had to get a ladder, and he ran up and down it, putting in a touch here, and rubbing out a patch there.If the great tree on the canvas is Tolkien's master-work, The Lord of the Rings, then the other little pictures that are "tacked on...
One of my favourite Tolkien books so far. The story of Roverandom was the absolute cutest and I really adored the poetry as well. The explanatory parts about fairy-stories was extremely interesting as well.
Tolkien Schreibstil ist durchaus auch mal anstrengend, aber diese Ausgabe mit ihren Illustrationen ist einfach traumhaft
It is a humorous and somewhat satirical tale, easily enjoyed by children for the adventure, and by adults for the characterisations.The Adventures of Tom Bombadil is not a story, but rather a collection of poetry.
For me, this was the most surprising story in the collection as it is utterly unlike anything else I've read by Tolkien.
If Tolkien had not been consumed by his Middle-earth conception, could stories of this nature have been what he was known for?Smith of Wootton Major is the most faerie-tale-like of the four branches.
Smith's journeys into Faerie are haunting and the sense of lurking mortal peril is the most pronounced in this story.
Very enjoyable. Farmer Giles of Ham was my favourite from a reader's point of view. I particularly wanted to read Leaf by Niggle and On Fairy Stories, having had them recommended so often by other authors. On Fairy Stories was longer and more scholarly than I expected, but the last few pages contained the gold -- Tolkien's famous coining of the term eucatastrophe (for a glorious happy ending) and his discussion of the Christian Story as the work of the Ultimate Author, the ultimate story that has entered and changed history and "the most complete conceivable eucatastrophe".
My one and only Tolkien read of the year 2014 (that still makes me sad!), but the quality of these stories was worth a thousand! Within it were several treasure troves that I dearly, dearly loved. Roverandom, of course. Farmer Giles of Ham, and Smith of Wootten Major. Tom Bombadil's songs. . . and the Leaf by Niggle. . . I enjoyed each one of them dearly. But I think the crown of this charming collection of more "light-hearted" stories, was Tolkien's own essay "On Fairy-Stories". That was great and inspiring to read; I can't recommend it too highly!
Až se mě někdy někdo zeptá, kterou pohádkovou knihu bych mu doporučil, bude to tahle. Ať už normální, veršované, krátké, nebo dlouhé příběhy, všechny mají jedinečné a nezaměnitelné kouzlo. Tohle si brzy přečtu znovu, vždycky, když budu mít chmurné myšlenky, nebo jen špatný den. Díky, pane Tolkiene, za další skvělé čtení.
I checked this book out of the library originally for The Adventures of Tom Bombadil as part of a LOTR reading group, but I have to say I really enjoyed all the stories it contained, even those distantly or completely unattached to Middle Earth.
Honestly I was mostly just bored while reading this.Roverandom - 3Farmer Giles of Ham - 3The Adventures of Tom Bombadil - 3.25Smith of Wootton Major - 3.5Leaf by Niggle - 3.75On Fairy-stories - DNF
❤Mi mayor problema con todo lo que escribe Tolkien, es que me quedo sin elogios
❤️Mi mayor problema con todo lo que escribe Tolkien, es que me quedo sin elogios
Tolkien es magistral en muchos aspectos, lastimosamente no son los aspectos que hacen que yo me emocione con una historia.En este libro específico, lo que más me gustó fue el ensayo final "Sobre los cuentos de hadas", que aporta material interesante sobre la escritura de fantasía al estilo de Tolkien y echa luz sobre las decisiones que él, como autor, toma a la hora de crear sus mundos.
Como siempre, la sencillez y bondad de la pluma de Tolkien conforta el alma. Un motivo más para seguir amando ese reino peligroso llamado Fantasía 💗
3.5*
