https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/632594.Man_of_La_Mancha
This is a musical play based on Miguel de Cervante's book Don Quixote.
Cervantes and his co-prisoners act out a play about a half-baked knight, Don Quixote, through his fanciful adventures.I see this as an interesting introduction to Don Quixote which I look forward to reading for "The Classics Club" I joined.
It came as a realization how actors do wonders to telling a story.
Seeing and hearing this play live would have been more meaningful for me.
Hooray for actors!Now, HERE is "The Quest" song, aka "The Impossible Dream", that inspired me to look into Don Quixote again (I vaguely recall the story in Junior High).
how did it take me this long to read/listen to this? love love LOVE
What a genuine pleasure to read. I am following this up with a viewing of the movie so I can fully appreciate the music and theatrics created by this book. 5+ stars
Despite this, there are a few elements of the Spanish-speaking world in which I take great pride, and Miguel de Cervantes and his immortal Don Quixote will always command a place of high importance and sentiment in my heart.
Despite his madness, Quixote brings hope and rebirth to those he encounters along the way- as the character of Cervantes does to the prisoners in his cell, and as the real Cervantes has done to so many generations of dreamers and idealists over the centuries.
Man of La Mancha / 0-394-40619-2Though I find the Don Quixote story to be moving and meaningful, I am the first to admit that the full work of Cervantes can be incredibly daunting - not exactly light evening reading.
The character of Dulcinea is particularly touching - where those who would use and abuse her see only a whore broken by life's cruelties and painful necessities, our mad hero sees a woman capable of love, kindness, and friendship.
Perhaps it is the rest of the world that is mad, and only our dear man of La Mancha has clear senses.~ Ana Mardoll
I kind of loved this when I read it high school--it was funny and sad and romantic and hopeful, and a heck of a lot easier to get through than Don Quixote itself (sorry, Miguel de Cervantes). I mean, it kind of has everything--adventure and intrigue and love and prison and prostitutes and the Spanish Inquisition...great stuff!
I read Don Quixote over a half century ago and it remains in my mind one of the most unusual and fascinating books that I have encountered. Since I will not read through it's 1,000+ pages again, I took the opportunity of reading this musical version as a reminder and was not dissapointed. In addition to Quixote's madness there was the addition of the "impossible dream" and other music added.
This was the book from the play so it helps if you are familiar with the musical score and can play the tunes in your head.Timeless and excellent story only made better if you know the history of Cervantes. We all pick and choose the reality that suits us best.
Much shorter than Don Quixote and it has the lyrics for the songs in the musical. Nice little read.
I read this in my creative writing class. I have to say, it was a bit confusing at first but once I caught on to the story I fell in love. The soundtrack is fantastic too, very catchy. It must be listened to if you are reading the play alone.
Read for a MS class and has stayed with me to this day!
Refreshing my recollection of this musical in case our civic theatre decides to mount a production of it. Good show!
I'd read Cervantes' Don Quixote in junior high and heard the soundtrack of the musical numbers of Wasserman's work on WFMT radio, so, when offered tickets to its debut in Chicago's Auditorium Theatre, I enthusiastically accepted, excitedly inviting Rachel, the girl of my dreams from down the block, to the performance.
Dejectedly, I invited Richard, my best friend, instead.
He accepted.The musical is, in part, an endorsement of emotion and idealism over reason and practicality.
Naturally, I loved it, identifying stongly with Quixote, a poster of whom, the Picasso rendering, I was soon to put on my closet door near the "Vietnam Will Win!" one.
Miguel Cervantes' classic novel "Don Quixote" was written over 300 years ago.
"Man of La Mancha" was the musical adaptation of the story of a poor country squire who loves to read about the days of chivalry and knight-errants doing battle on behalf of their 'lady fair'.
This stage vehicle took the highlights of Cervantes' story and brought it to life in a magical production that opened in 1965.
The only thing missing here is the actual music itself, but all the song lyrics and on-stage dialogue is present.
I saw the production back in 1966, and almost 50 years later, it still moves me tremendously.
My review comes from someone who knew nothing about the book before buying it. I only bought it because of course I've heard the names many times.The book is actually a play for any of you, like me, that didn't know.It is quite cute, funny and very short. I made it thru it and was slightly entertained.
I read it as I was preparing to perform the play. I found it richly rewarding as a story and was thrilled to be able to read it over and over. One of the benefits of being an actor.I would like to read the entire work that this was based upon.
Odd
"An idealist? Well, I've never had the courage to believe in nothing."
Don, reminds me of some old people I have known.
I could not get through this book. The English was too old and too wordy. Loved the musical though!
It's a wonderful play, both minimalistic and lush. I would love to be part of the cast someday. That's probably a pipe dream.
I read this years ago in High School and loved it. I suspect that I still would. Though it is a rather sad story.
"And maddest of all, to see life as it is and not as it should be!" This is hands down, one of my favorites!
LOVED IT!
I love this story and it was wonderful to read it in play form. It went along with the 1972 movie so well and it's just my favorite musical!
lovvvvvvvvve this book! much shorter than Don Quixote... one day I'll read it. [the entire book of Don Quixote that is]
Okay, so it's not like this book was bad. It was just a difference in opinion that made me hate it. I found the main character to be really annoying.
One of my favorite musicals!
Such a deep book, it got boring at times, for me anyways, but I teared up in the end (no, not cry, of course not--I was at school, it would be so uncool).
Love this play and enjoy really being able to digest the words
