https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31271.The_Matlock_Paper
I loved it! The plot twist was marvelous. I liked how an innocent college campus can actually be a network for drugs and prostitution. It isn't quite as fast paced as I thought it would be but it does have a certain elegance and intrigued to it.
Ludlum has the psychology angle down pat.
That is what makes his books stand out from others who do not understand the subtlety of human motives.
On the very lowest levels the "good cause" excuse for behavior is very evident here.
While instructive it does not reference the varied levels of such rationalizations evident in the common everyday world we all inhabit.
But the study here is very interesting in the details and the meaning, considering what it states about the children.
There is a price to pay when the adults sell out the children telling them it is for a "good cause" and therefore, okay.
Sjećao sam je se kao bokje. Izgleda da se ukusi s godinama mjenjaju
In a nutshell, this book had all the elements I needed to get a good read.
In comes the second man just assigned to MATLOCK and then it JUST gets crazy..
College fraternities set in a separatist time, vrazy allegations, people spooking Matlock looking for "the Papers" half a document that gives him access into a secret drug dealers society.
Mr Matlock is told that the owner/dean of the university is at the top of the LIST of people that the FBI is trying to infiltrate and bring down..
Guess he was involved or was scared to death of those involved now knowing that the FBI asked Matlock to infiltrate and that they are all under suspicion...This is where i Quit reading..
A good book. The pace is fine. A clean cut pure thriller. Not adulterated with unwanted romance or nudity. A routine Robert Ludlum affair.The end was a tad predictable... at least to me.. I somehow expected it...

I hadn’t read anything by Robert Ludlum for a few years, but this book reminds me why I liked his works so much.
It also reminded me why it has been a long time.
Let me explain…Ludlum, more than any of his successors in the thriller genre, could really write a dramatic scene well with twists and turns, and this book was very dramatic.
The thing about Ludlum is that his books – and it’s realistic and not a bad thing, but just one that prevents closure for me – don’t end with a tidy “they all lived happily ever after” ending.All-in-all, an enjoyable story.
It was good to get back to Robert Ludlum.
James Matlock is going to find conspiracy, suspense and danger when he takes on a job for the United States government and finds he is tangled in the dark world of drugs, prostitution and more. Always a thrill ride when readers grab a book by this author.
The Matlock paper.) It reminds me of a little kid stealing a ball and going, "it's mine now.
When a group of black militants are preparing to do battle Ludlum describes "tight-fitting khakis and open shirts." It sounds like they're going to the disco rather than to an ambush.
It's very unusual that Ludlum was only able to identify the black characters by their race, even when all the characters at that point of the story were black.That about sums up, "The Matlock Paper" in a nutshell.
I'm normally a big Ludlum fan, but I have to admit I was disappointed by this book. I found the beginning to be a slow start and the ending was rather lacking closure and somewhat frustrating by how it was orchestrated. Overall, the only "Ludlum" feel that I felt was in the direct middle of the book! Definitely didn't have the smooth action I've come to expect.
Seneler sonra ikinci okuyusum. Beni ilki kadar etkilemedi. Ancak Robert Ludlum' in gizemli kurgusunu anlatan iyi bir kitap.
First Ludlum book I have read for a couple of years and very much enjoyed it. Follows along with his usual style but storyline very different than his usual. College professor gets recruited the Justice Department to help investigate and bring down a drug cartel working around his college campus. Set in the early 1970's in Connecticut. Suspenseful story albeit parts were fairly unbelievable.
أعجبتني الرواية كباقي روايات روبيرت لدلم، قد لا ترقى هذه الرواية لمستوى رواياته الأخرى، هناك عنف في بعض المواقف زائد عن اللازم، تمنيت لو أن الكاتب خاض في مزيد من تفاصيل الأحداث قبيل نهاية الرواية، تخديدا اتصال البطل بالشرطة وإقناعهم بفكرته، الكاتب متمكّن من وضع الحبكة البوليسية ومفاجأتي في النهاية بما لم أكن أتوقعه
This book was first published in the 70,s, as such it is rather dated. This is not one of Ludlum's best. The characters are rather flat, and it is hard to work up any enthusiasm for the main character. The ultimate villain is rather apparent very early in the book, so the end was no surprise. Read this is you want to examine the cultural aspects of story lines in the 70s.
One of Ludlum's early books. Kind of sketchy in getting a college professor to go against a drug smuggling ring, but it does have some interesting parts. If you can get past the plot, this can be an enjoyable read. Ludlum is not at his best in this book. It seems he was still learning the craft that would make him a pile of money once it was refined a bit in the Bourne trilogy.
Uggh! The casual racism. The implicit misogyny. The tired and offensive tropes. The clueless main character. The obvious plot 'twists'. I went in wanting Jason Bourne and I ended up with a limp Robert Langdon. So disappointing.
A bit strange. I mean who mixes drugs, academia, undercover agents and ethnic conflicts?
rereading the good ludlum books after being disappointed with Van Lustbader's version of Bourne
Storyline is weak. Main character is naive, unskilled and usually unarmed in his implausible war against professional mobsters.
Didn't get the feeling of reading a Ludlum piece. Maybe one of his earlier works.
I wasn’t really sure what was going on (the plot and characters just seemed plain absurd to me) and I am still confused even after finishing the book.
From what I understand, the federal government enlisted a completely clueless and inexperienced University professor, Jamie Matlock, to go undercover in his own university to uncover an international drug/prostitution organization run at the administrative level at the institution.
As Matlock starts doing his own digging and uncovering more and more information, I started getting more and more lost.
There seemed to be a lot of unnecessary violence and unrealistic action that was going on.
I thought this was a GREAT early Ludlum book with a simple and intriguing and sparse story-line.
I love that this book had a dated feel to it in that there wasn't any modern technology involved: no cell phones, no computers, etc.
The mention of phone booths only added to it.
It wasn't a spy novel per se, but if you like Ludlum's later spy novels, and are of an older generation, I think you will find this book fascinating.
It isn't long, and can probably be read in a week under normal circumstances in our busy lives.
This book was only Ludlum's third published novel, and like most of his earliest works, The Matlock Paper is a very forgettable tale.
It's principal flaw is that it is so lacking in detail and depth (particularly in terms of characterisation) that the narrative is never truly engaging.In truth, it's a really boring and predictable affair, with a clueless, out-of-his-depth protagonist who's hard to root for.
And even if the book's conspicuous lack of depth were to be addressed you would still be left with a ludicrous plot that isn't remotely believable to deal with.Given how much better some of Ludlum's later novels are, I wouldn't recommend this one to anybody.
Wow, this was one hell of a book. Ludlum weaves his characters so well its unreal. the story was fast paced and is so much more enjoyable with its setting in the 70's. when this book was written there was no computer surveillance, cell phones, CCTV everywhere, nothing. This made the story feel so much more natural.
This is the first book of Robert Ludlum I have read and it was fast paced. The plot twist was excellent and I was half expecting it to go that way by the time I completed half the book. The story has intrigue and it touches upon many social themes. A good read!
Eerily reaching octopus tentacles. Brutal secrecy.
This book seems to be the outline for Dan Brown's Robert Langdon books.
One of his better early '70's books. Well written.
The plot twist was marvelous. I liked how an innocent college campus can actually be a network for drugs and prostitution ! story is little bit weak than other works but somewhat enjoyable
