https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22877488-the-jilting-of-granny-weatherall
This short story needs precise precision and fastidious eyes to understand and analyze the elements and to follow the plot.The story is told through a mixed of third-person and stream of consciousness narration.
The tone of the story is quite nostalgic and she reminisces about what she has done and the author uses interesting conceit metaphors to convey how she feels.
We all know that there was a growing notion in 19th and 2oth century that we needed novel manners of storytelling, authors were trying to discard the previous styles and come up with personal styles.

The protagonist Granny Wetherall is a well-developed round character. She always likes to keep the house clean and thinks that she she can do everything on her own and that the doctor is silly. Until hear death she waits for her favorite son Hapsy to come, but he doesn't. She also looks for signs of God and she doesn't get that. Wetherall feels that she has been jilted again.
Truly made me depressed ...
This story was alright.
While reading this, I kept thinking of the time before my grandmother passed away, so that helped me to push through and keep reading it.
In my opinion, I thought it was a little confusing towards the end when Mrs. Weatherall is in bed dying and everyone is crowding around her and trying to talk to her (maybe because I'm reading this while I'm super tired and ready to pass out).
I think this is a good short-story, but it should be read when one is fully awake to appreciate and understand it better.
Hauntingly beautiful.
Did not connect with this one. Sorry Granny.
I only read The Jilting of Granny Weatherall. I found myself dizzied and a bit sad over it - which was likely the point.
It’s a great story which takes a keen eye and understanding (or 4 read-throughs) to fully comprehend everything that is happening.
It was okay. A dying lady is being taken care of by her children. She thinks that she has lived a life with no problems, but that turns out to not be true. She thinks she has accepted death, but she truly hasn't. I liked it and did not hate reading it. 3 stars.

A great premise to use for showing off the technique of stream of consciousness. Difficult to read emotionally if you've been with someone you love as they face illness and death. I actually didn't enjoy it that much. Maybe I will appreciate it more with time.
I liked this story better than death of Ivan Ilyich because of the main character. You want to hate her but you can't help but like her and feel sorry for her. I love the feel about the usefulness of denial.~Megan~
I actually read this in February 2016 but it's a short story within my LIT book that I counted as read already :)
Was hard to follow at some points
