https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16791.Death
Deadly brilliant!!! This is a collected edition of the story “Death: The High Cost of Living” which includes “Death talks about Life” which is a health pamphlet about how to have safe sex, and also there is a brief guide-like about the appearance of “Death” in the pages of “The Sandman”. Also it has an introduction written by the musician Tori Amos.Creative Team:Writer: Neil GaimanIllustrators: Chris Bachalo (main story) & Dave McKean (additional health info)Letterer: Todd Klein (since he i
That girl will be the death of me.
Certainly she wears black goth-like clothes but that’s a fashion decision, you don’t have to be angry with life or having glum mood just for wearing that kind of attire.Death is always smiling, and it’s not a creepy malicious grin, she is genuily happy with her role in the balance of the universe and she likes to meet people and experience new things.
If you know someone really well it’s hard to be mad at them for very long...
In this story, Death lives a day as a normal human being.
Death is a far better character.
Death is the end, but she is also something we will all have to accept with open arms.
There’s no escaping her and perhaps that’s why she is so welcoming here.
It is fate that we will one day meet her.
They want to be around her and one day they will be forevermore.
He hates his life and he wants it all to end.
Death appears.
Death taught him a lesson: she taught him that life must come first.
"It always ends.
That’s what gives it value."
It's strange. Gaiman's Sandman is a far better story overall than his death books. But I think Death herself is a much better character.
There are good ideas but he doesn’t do much with them.
It’s just not as good as you’d hoped it would be after reading the cover blurb.
The character of Death herself is marvellous – I like the idea of Death looking like a teenage goth girl, and actually being a rather sweet person.
The story, though, doesn’t really go anywhere and doesn’t make the most of the idea and the character.
I’ve never read anything by Gaiman that I’ve actively disliked; he just leaves me feeling like I’ve eaten a McDonald's burger rather than an actual meal.
I actually have the first volume at home ready to read, but thanks to my involvement with a comic book discussion group, this one ended up being my introduction to the Sandman universe, instead.Other readers have claimed this book has problems as a standalone book, but I found it to read quite nicely on its own.
This is not a problem, as far as I’m concerned; it took me back to the last time I read comics this frequently, which is definitely a good thing.
In fact, I’d peg it as a great introduction to the Sandman books.
I would date Death.
Mindless multiple gasporgasms.
"One day in every century Death takes on human flesh, better to comphrehend what the lives she takes must feel like, to taste the bitter tang of mortality."I love the Sandman series, and Death is my second favorite of the Endless.
I liked this graphic novel installment, and while not great, it's an interesting story and the art is good.
I love Gaiman's take on Death.
In this installment Death meets Sexton Furnival, a jaded, suicidal sixteen year old, and they spend an odd and rather alarming day in New York City.
Somebody funny, and friendly, and nice, and maybe just a tiny bit crazy.”Sexton Furnival, one of the main characters of Death: The High Cost of Living, shares this sentiment with me—and perhaps also with legions of other Sandman readers when they meet Death of the Endless for the first time in Preludes and Nocturnes.
In a whole day they spent together, both took from each other important lessons about life and the value of it.There is nothing much to say about the plot; even if there is an antagonist of sorts in the form of the Eremite, the spotlight is on the Death incarnate and Sexton.
In the end, after interacting with Didi/Death, he admits to thinking of life so much after the day they spent together.
Loved it. Gaiman's portrayal of Death is truly unlike any other, friendly, kind, and funny. It's not hard to see why she's kinda becoming more popular than Morpheus himself. Personally, while Sandman has better story, I like Death more tham Dream. Too bad there isn't more of the story.
Me salvó la vida.
A fitting story about Death spending a day mortal.
Mysterious and entertaining.
It's always a good time when Dead of the endless is around.
She's just that good a character.It's funny, I remember having the 6 page Death talks about STDs comic back in the day that appears at the end of this book.
It really shows how it's a product of its time by having her explain Aids and STDs to readers.
Since this comic was released in the early 90s, the Aids epidemic was very much still in the minds of people.
It's just amusing to see it again.
Okay, ich wusste nicht, dass Death eine Figur aus den Sandman-Comics ist, weswegen es mir schwerfiel, in die Geschichte reinzukommen und alles zu verstehen. Dafür bin ich aber noch neugieriger auf dieSandman-Comics und will sie alle lesen, um auch mehr über Death zu erfahren, die eine interessante Figur ist.
Death... Something a lot of people fear... Something unknown...Here is portrated by a cute, funny, kind and friendly girl who is a pretty awesome character!I liked the whole concept and the story, but not the artwork as much.I love Neil Gaiman's work and I hope one day I can afford the "Sandman" collection to read too!
Who knew Death was so sweet and fun to be around?! I loved the 90s nostalgia of this short graphic novel. Could have read in one sitting, but decided to drag out Death until I got the overdue notification from Darebin library ;-)
It was good experience reading this comic. There were parts where it got boring and obvious but it had its unique touch in the end anyhow. The comic was made really well, though the concept was fine, as well as the story lie for one could do too much more than that concept. The characters were good and so was the end. Goodread
Neil Gaiman's Sandman comic book series (which is profoundly good - read it right the fuck now) centers around a family of immortal beings called The Endless.
In this book, Death is taking a holiday; once every century, Death becomes mortal to get a taste of what it's like to be alive, only to die by the end of the day.
During this particular day, she comes across an unhappy young man, named Sexton, who is considering suicide.
I love the symbolism of a suicidal young man spending the day with "Death" - that, among other things, is brilliantly done.
This is a very small story and a very sweet story. I've always found Gaiman's personification of Death to be one of the most unique approaches to the concept, and because she's such a delightful character, it's easy to just watch her go on for a day as she takes a stroll amidst humanity.I did, sadly, find myself bored at times, or found that my mind wandered away from the (rather simple) narrative. Nonetheless it held my attention and kept me entertained--and I will absolutely adore this character for years to come.
Death: The High Cost of Living is a short and sweet little comic, featuring Death as she appears in The Sandman, but as the star.
None of the other Endless appear, instead it follows Death during her one day in a hundred years of being a mortal.
It's a pretty simple little story: it's interesting because it stars Death, who as a character is awesome, but the story itself isn't dazzling.
The art is nice and the bonus story where Death talks about STDs and such is fun, but in itself, it isn't dazzling and it's not a good introduction to the series.
Death and Sandman was my introduction to the world of graphic novels and - well, it's pretty much the only graphic novels I've read... But they're amazing!Love Death - love the fact that she gets to live once every hundred years and then uses it to the fullest - to eat hot dogs and appels other food! And how she just love life! In theory these stories should be dark and gloomy, but they're not - they're actually very life-affirming and humoristic!
Ten pocit, když jste si jisti, že Smrt by mohla být váš nejlepší kámoš. #friendshipgoals <3
This three-issue book chronicles one of Death's once-per-century days as a mortal, and while it was enjoyable, it just left me wanting a bit more.
Never thought I'd say this, but man I love Death.
One of my favorite authors and favorite artists create a short-but-complete story about the one day, every hundred years, that the personification of Death must live a mortal life.
(Not that there's anything wrong with that -- Terry Prachett proved there's a lot of good material with that version, too!) Instead she's a young woman, experiencing the world innocently, seemingly without cares or concerns, as if for the first time.The story is primarily about the interplay of the characters -- Death (or Didi, as she is known on this one day as a mortal) and Sexton, who joins her on her 24-hour exploration.
One day every century, Death walks the earth in a human body as a container and experiences what it is like to be among the living (and be one herself) before the time comes and she takes their lives away.
This time around, Death is a young woman with a seemingly pleasant disposition and aside from her head-to-toe black ensemble, doesn't stick out like a sore thumb.
She is accompanied by a suicidal young man for her one-day travel on Earth, and is given a quest while being pursued by a mysterious figure.I understand from reading other reviews that the secondary characters are seen or referenced in The Sandman series.
This graphic novel is a fun one-shot for fans of Death from Gaiman’s Sandman series—I’m not sure if readers who don’t know the world of the Endless already would enjoy it as much. But for fans, this comic includes a fun story about Death visiting Earth as a mortal for a single day. It also includes a mini-comic about safe-sex featuring Death and John Constantine which has more than a little fame among Sandman fans, making it somewhat of a collectors' item for Gaiman fans.
Wow. I love Death, I love Gaiman. This is enjoyable as it's easy to read, as it's funny and in the same way teaches you a lot bout life itself. And death too. It's plain simple, but you never notice it until it's right in front of you. Death is so likeable and lovable.Loved this.
It's a good story. It's just not as great as the main body of The Sandman series. It probably gets more love because the character is so fantastic than it does for the actual plot. At least, that's certainly true for me.
If you don't compare it to Sandman, then it's great, it's fun. However, I couldn't avoid comparing them, and Sandman is a superior story by far. I gave it 4 stars (3.5 would be more suitable), because it's a great character.
I won't give too much away but if you've followed the Sandman Series which the character is derived Death (personified as the young girl Didi) is the phyiscal manifestation and a member of the Endless (the actual representations of war, dreams, delirium & yes death).
Through their adventure it's shows that he is not really ready to give up on life & although she is only with him for 24 hours...neither is death.You know how when you're a kid and you don't want to go to summer camp but by the time summer is over you want to stay forever?
