https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101672.The_Chronicles_of_Narnia
I remember these books vividly from my childhood.
I think my mother read them to us.
The boys and the girls enjoyed them, and I'm looking forward to sharing them with my children.
One memory in particular stands out.
When I was young (5, 6, 7?), every summer we used to watch The Lion, the witch and the Wardrobe for summer Sunday School.
The supervising adult would set up the hugh projector with immense reels (4, I think) of film in the old, dusty, woody, gym, and the film would be projected onto a large white blanket hung on the wall.
Beside the projector, no supervision was necessary....
I really enjoyed it. I remember reading "The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe" as a child, but I never read the whole series. It was fun to read each of the books, though I must say that I was surprised by the HEAVY religious tones in the stories. I am sure that children don't pick up on it as quickly as adults do, but it seemed to be an ever-present part of the stories and, I felt, somewhat took away from the fanciful magic of the story itself.
I'm not exactily sure when I first read this series. I do know that since the first time I have read these books they have been my favorite books of all time. I especially enjoy The Lion the Witch and the Wardrobe out of all of the books. I think I need to start reading them over again especially now that the Motion Picture for Prince Caspian is coming out. I definetly think the books are better than the movies, but I do enjoy watching the movies as well.
I read all the book and heard them along side as well. They brought about something in me that screamed wonderful fantasy and a chance at a wondrous belief between fact and fiction truth and myth mix. I read them during the summer of middle school, the movies that are out give a good definition of the books but not as could as imagining it for oneself
this book was about these kids that has to move away because of a war that is going on.then one day while playing the little girl goes into the wardrobe that leads into a diffrent world and thats when the adventure starts.
First read these as a child and love them still. I like the growing the kids do and that they aren't perfect...they have issues and personality trials that everyone faces. CS Lewis is just fabulous.
I read this series when I was in my first trimester of pregnancy with my first baby. I was very sick. Throwing up all the time. I was miserable. Reading seemed to help the time pass. I enjoyed each one of the books in this series. I thought they were fascinating.
I read the series when I was in grade 5 and it is one series that I actually reread a few times. I still remember crying in "The Last Battle".Enough layers here to holdthe attention of various ages and reading levels and as time has proven, a classic.
The Chronicles of Narnia, The Lion the Witch and the Wardrobe was a good book. It was interesting and held my attention the whole time. It was sad and emotional but the ending was happy. I enjoyed this book and look forward to reading the rest of the series.
In this book, I learned about teamwork and overcoming obstacles. there were many obstacles that the 4 kids(siblings)Lucy, Edmund, Susan and Peter had to face together. I learned that you need to be brave in order to compete with the antagonist.
"Larry got me this set of Narnia books last year, and I read them all in chronological order that the stories took place (C.S. Lewis didn't write them in order). It was a lot of fun to get the complete picture from beginning to end, and I highly recommend it.
This is a series I'd like to re-read as an adult. I remember loving it as a child...
These are always a good read every 5 years.
Absolutely stimulated my interest in literatue guised as children's adventure tales. Satisfied my inner child, nurtured love and spirituality, without having to swallow the bitter Christianity pill.
i love them all though it has been a while ...i reread the lion, the witch, and the wardrobe recently and loved it probably even more. beautiful!
I like the book because it like your into it.and it saves a lot of details,and action.And I will recommend this book to me little brother because he like fiction books.
I thought that an example of forshadowing in this book is when Aslan starts walking away with his head lowered towards the stone table. I think forshadowing is hinting at future events in a book.
I really liked it because I loved how Lucy walked into the wardrobe and just came into Narnia!!!
I loved this series! I'm glad there were seven books. I wish there were more.
I read all of these a few years ago, but looking back, I realized how badly written and christian linked they were.
This book is a book that takes imagination to a new level that shows a imaginary land where any thing takes place and four kids come together to restore the land to the way it used be
I loved these books. It was like a teleporting device into Narnia.
this book was good because it had action and death but itt was an amazing booook
I recently re-read all the Narnia books with my adult son while he was convalescing. I had forgotten how beautiful the symbolism of each book. One of the all-time very favorite books.
Another set of books my dad read me as a kid.
I thought that the book was very expressive. There was a lot of passion and I really enjoyed it in my spare time.
I enjoyed these books as an adult as I think kids do. Obviously Christian parallels are intended and done pretty well I think. My favorite: Reep-a-cheep and Dawn Treader.
The set I actually own was given to me in 1979 when I was 8 years old. It is the 22nd printing from 1978. These books are timeless classics. I look forward to reading them with my kids.
brilliant book!! loved the movie also but i think the book is better!
very nice and wonderful book stories ..really like in Garcia fantasia land..
