https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/157332.A_Path_to_Freedom
A vast ocean of words have been lavished on Michael Collins, revolutionary founder of the modern Irish state. Yet relatively few readers are as familiar with Collins' own writings, as they are with books written about him, by others. In clear and vibrant prose, his penetrating understanding of Ireland's issues, sterling character, noble yet practical ideals, and pragmatic proposals, cut through all the confusion and factionalism of that contentious period. If I could, I would make this required reading for anyone who wants to know the truth about Collins, his life and times.
This thin little book was put out as a prelude to the Hollywood version of "Michael Collins." I was struck by the passion in the pages, and how coherently - and consistently - Collins framed his arguments for a free and independent Ireland. Time and time again, I was shocked to be reminded that he was so, so young when he put pen to paper to create these essays. I'm only sorry I'm such a poor student of Irish history that I certainly missed a lot of important nuances, because Collins clearly knew what he was talking about!
Although the book was a study in propaganda, I really enjoyed reading something Michael Collins had written and getting a chance to step inside his mind during such an important time in history for Ireland. It was only one perspective, but it taught me a lot. I would like to read De Valera's side too if it is out, just to get a more well-rounded understanding.
It's good to find a book that groups together all the opinions and points Michael Collins made in his short life. I don't think it was 'propaganda filled' like some people say, it was his own words and whether you agree or not is nothing to do with the points made. Also interesting to see the notes and unread speeches. Good book well worth the read.
As a student of Irish history and a descendent of Irish immigrants,I've been following Ireland for along time.Michael Collins,has always been one of heroes of modern day Ireland. Reading his articles and speeches,he's still relevant today,over 75 years since his assassination.Since I never heard "Mick" speak,when reading this book,I could close my eyes and hear today's Sinn Fein leader,Gerry Adams,speaking the same words.My only problem with the book,is that the editors,did not not which were speeches and which were articles. But since was originally published in 1922,the people of Ireland,knew the difference.
This little work is nothing but a collection of articles, yet I was astonished with the coherence amongst them. In them, behind all the propaganda value of the writings, Collins shows a consistent view of what he believed Ireland should be, in words that sometimes tells to the present-day people - sometimes even to those who are not Irish. I was positively surprised.
This is a brief book of writings and speeches made by Michael Collins in defense of the Irish independence movement.
His arguments make one wonder why Britain did not sponsor their independence as a U.K. confederate similar to Canada or Australia.
Maybe things would have been different had not World War I been so brutal.
The Irish uprisings also coincided with the movement for a Jewish state in what became the British Mandate.
Reading this book showed me how little I know of modern Irish history!
pendamping nonton film Michael Collins, tentang IRA dan Irlandia Utara....
