https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26055.The_MacGregors
The MacGregors, Alan~Grant by Nora Roberts is made up of two separate stories, All The Possibilities and One Man’s Art, both originally published in 1985.
Also, both children have grown up to be artists, in two very different ways.All The Possibilities deals with Shelby.
One night at a dinner party she meets Alan MacGregor, Senator of Massachusetts.
The fiery red headed Shelby is not the sort of girl Alan usually dates.
Also, they discover there is a connection between Gennie and some of Alan’s family.As the MacGregors and the Campbells come together, family ties bind them all together in a way only Nora Roberts can accomplish.

These two stories are contemporary and revolve around art.This series is a mess chronologically and has a number of stories combined into single books, so you may want to explore my list of the MacGregor family saga.Series (chronologically):All the Possibilities, 5One Man's Art, 6Third and fourth in the MacGregor romance series revolving around the MacGregor family and their friends.
This was such fun and Roberts gave a delightful twist to Alan MacGregor's pursuit of Shelby.
It was interesting to read how Grant processed the information he took in although Roberts didn't delve too deeply whereas she did spend more time exploring how Genviève Grandeau thought about her art.
Super read! I loved the characters. This has great personalities, emotions, humor, family, swells and calm seas, and great HEAs. I loved both stories in this book and am looking forward to reading more in this series (some again)! Well written, descriptive, creative and pulls you in just to see what happens next. Totally Enjoy!
The MacGregors again.
Shelby is an interesting woman, but I seriously question her sanity when she tries to reject Alan and when she tries to push him away.
I know she was devastated when her father was killed but he did not have to be in the political arena for him to die.
They could be mugged or carjacked, or killed just because someone else is a psycho.
Shelby tried to lock her heart away to protect it, so that she would not find someone she could fall in love with.
That makes Daniel MacGregor happy as he approves of strong “blood” and “stock”.
Alan and Shelby are my most favorite MacGregor characters. Shelby's free spirit and Alan's Senatorial demeanor draw you in with their "opposites attract". Her resistance, his persistance and the push-pull of their fight against love at first sight...yum.
Totally loved this book, to think that Alan could find things in common with Shelby, let alone fall in love! Always love Daniel’ meddling under the guise of looking out for grandchildren for his wife!Grant & Gennie appear to be such opposites at first, then of course love fixes that!
The one interesting thing about this couple, besides their complimenting personality, is that their families (Campbell and MacGregor) are from rival families in Scotland.In Grant's love story entitled One Man's Art, we meet again Grant Campbell, Shelby's older brother.
It feels like they all fell in love too quickly, and it makes you wonder if their relationship is sustainable, especially when despite the brevity of each story and relationship, all characters end up married at the end of their stories.One part that I wish that Nora Roberts had worked on was the Campbell and MacGregors being enemies due to some old land-conflict back in Scotland.
When two young siblings see their beloved father, a politician running for President of the US, gunned down before their eyes, it affects their adult lives in different ways. One refuses to date aspiring politicians and the other lives in a lighthouse and seeks to be ALONE. It takes two persistent people to break through these limitations and show these "wounded" adults what their futures hold. I really enjoyed this book in the MacGregor series and recommend it, even if it is the only book in the series that you read.
I finally finished this book. I am determined to finish series that I have started, and this is one of Nora Roberts earlier series that she wrote. The MacGregors are a clan that each have love problems. I enjoyed the second story better with Grant and the Artist he falls in love with. I will read the next two in the series.
Very good but kind of predictable!
I loved Grant's story, but not as much Alan's. Still worth the read though!
two Nice romance stories
Ekki alveg að gera sig þessar sögur :(
But Alan was determined and nothing was going to keep him from getting what he wanted—not even the centuries-old feud between the MacGregors and Campbells….My Rating: B+ My Review:I really enjoyed the story of this MacGregor book.
She knows that he has the ability to make her fall in love and she doesn't want to face that loss, because she won't put her heart at risk.I LOVED Shelby's character.
And for Alan, he knows that Shelby is who he wants as his wife...no doubt about it and he pursues her like he has everything in his life...completely!This is another Nora Roberts book that was originally released in 1985.
But for me, in my case, sometimes the predictability factor of a story makes it more intriguing.Think about it.
Sometimes, when something is so very ordinary to you, don't you get this kind of apprehension wherein you seek for something in the story to make it more, you know, interesting.
I mean, despite knowing the characters, who wouldn't want to read another MacGregor novel after reading the first?
:D All the Possibilities  made me dream of all possible romantic stuff a seemingly "unromatic" guy like Alan does.
I mean, guys should read this.
I found their romance a bit more believable than that of Serena and Justin, and Caine and Diana.
I also found both characters more likeable, despite Shelby's incessant attitude of not knowing what she wants and the fact that once again, Alan is painted as a man who simply needs to force himself upon a woman to get what he wants.
The treat for me was reading about cartoonist Grant Campbell, Shelby's older brother, and artist Gennie Grandeau.
I had a problem with all the male characters in the series so far but it might be that Grant so far is the best, despite his flip-flopping temper and attitude.
yep....gonna love it....
Overall, it was "ok," but, like most of the old NR re-packaged for fresh marketing, they were dated, facile, and not all that interesting.The first story, All the Possibilities (1985), was marred by a serious issue of bulldozing and consent.
In One Man's Art (1985), Grant is surly, but attractive, and I rather liked Gennie.
I liked the setting here, though.I could have done without the old MacGregor Family Reunion in the second one, though, since it was really tacked on.2 or 3/5 for One Man's Art.ETA: It's time for me to stop grabbing books with NR's name on them, even at the thrift store.
He is a US Senator in his mid-thirties and his hoping to run for President eventually.
She couldn't be more perfect for a Senator's wife.
Alan finds his way blocked by Shelby's insistence on not having anything to do with a politician.
Having her father assassinated within twenty feet of her while running for president has put a permanent damper on any desire to marry anyone who could find themselves in a similar boat.
In the end Shelby finds it boils down to "all the possibilities" of life, which she can live with and which she can't.
In All the Possibilities, Washington, D.C., socialite Shelby Campbell meets Senator Alan MacGregor and the attraction is immediate and powerful.
Her determination is no match for Alan's, though, as the handsome MacGregor lays siege to the Campbell heart with weapons too compelling to resist.In One Man's Art, Shelby's brother, Grant Campbell, has found his own way of coping with his loss.
A famous cartoonist and political satirist, Grant lives as a virtual hermit in an isolated Maine lighthouse, jealously guarding his privacy.
Genvieve, herself a renowned artist, has come to Maine seeking solitude and inspiration.
couldn't get into the story but the beginning was good
Still enjoyed them, but obviously older style books.In Alan's book, the oldest son of Daniel falls in love with the daughter of an assassinated presidential hopeful (he died years before).
Shelby is a pottery artist in her own right, and a fun character.
There is one scene in particular where he basically drags her off to dinner, but one good yank would have got her away.In Grant's book, the MacGregors are only bit players.
Grant is Shelby's brother, and he falls in love with Genevieve Grandeau, who is a distant relation of MacGregor in-laws (it's a bit confusing, and very providential).
They both have to have each other because it's like the world stops when they touch one another.........mind blowing sex, and then one of them decides they do not want to be tied down, but the other is head over heels in love, but afraid to tell the partner of their feelings.One gets fed up with the other, and leaves (by their own will or some other way), but they come back together and profess their undying love for all time and live happily ever after.Isn't that what all romantic girls want??
I loved this book in the series.
All the PossibilitiesI enjoyed this book and loved Shelby and Alan.
Shelby is an eccentric artist who watched her father get assassinated on the campaign trail, and vowed that she wouldn't become involved with politicians, but Alan MacGregor has other plans.
They fall in love quickly but Shelby struggles with Alan's profession.
Cannot wait to continue in the series.One Man's ArtThis was a good story and I loved following the story of Gennie and Grant.
Didn't enjoy it as much as the previous book but it was still a good book.Definitely a series I would recommend.
Love this classic book from Nora Roberts.
I am not going to review every Nora Roberts book that I have read in the past because she is quite prolific and it would get redundant and I honestly cannot remember all the plots.
I think I have read every one of her books to date because despite the cheesy nature, the ending is always happy and the read is easy.
Frankly, I like these books and will continue to read each one that comes out.
I am going to post this same review for each of her books that I have read in the past.

Another Nora Roberts book - I couldn't help myself.
She portrays strong female characters not really looking for love and when they find it there is a struggle.
The loves have some sort of conflicts that they have to work out and then they do and are into each others arms.
Her books go into great detail on the foreplay, which is probably what draws many to her books (me included).
This book is in a series of books, which I just jumped into the middle of reading.
It was a nice book to read over a vacation and I have a pile of them left.
3.5 stars: Great summer readingI really like this light hearted, laugh out loud series.
Great characters.
I've read most of the books in this series and enjoyed them all.
Not realizing it was part of a series, I started with MagGregor Brides (the one with the MacGregor acting as matchmaker for his grandaughters).
My favs in the series are the later books with three generations of MacGregors and the matchmaking, meddlesome grandfather.
I actually think I liked the series more by starting with those books, because it made me more interested to go back and read the other characters story.
