https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10584.Desperation
U.S. 50 is much more than "the loneliest highway in America" when you end up in DESPERATION!It all begins with a monstrosity of a 6' 7" police officer from hell and a scary trip into town for one unwary traveler after another; and once you do make it to town, well, the deadly creep-fest begins.This chunkster of a novel is filled with really icky creepy crawlers, horrific & gruesome death, and enough blood and gore to fill a movie theatre, but when eleven year old David Carver enters the picture, (and steals the show) you'll also hear about friend Brian's miracle, a promise made to GOD and the power of prayer.I admit it, this is one of those horror reads that made me want to scream at the characters (more than once) to get the hell out of dodge while the getting was good, but, of course, they don't......they prolong the reader's misery by waiting out a blustery sand storm in the dark, share scary stories of the supernatural (while worrying about the "thing" outside) and then still enter the evil pit of hell!
Tak.”I see holes like eyes.”Desperation is one of the downright scariest books I’ve read, and the scares come early.
Some sequences are somewhat bizarre, and others are bluntly offensive, although this is only what you’d expect from a novel such as this: it’s not meant to be easy reading after all.
Biological?Dolls with no little girls around to mind them were sort of creepy under any conditions, that was his opinion, at least, and to come upon one abandoned by the roadside, half-buried in blowing sand—It’s a visual novel, and King makes very effective use of imagery.
What I always found insulting was how easily critics, snobs, and pretentious twits write-off Stephen King because he writes stories about realistic people in fantastic situations.
Desperation is a perfect example of horror and fantastic writing and anyone who doesn't think so can go stick their nose in some classics of literature and sip wine and think about how superior they are.The first thing that gripped me in this book was how goddamn creepy it really was.
I never knew how powerful repetition could be until I read this book and this scene and I begin to sweat as hard as I thought the characters were.
And of course there are the recycled characters, the characters who have made numerous appearances in other King novels – the young boy with strange powers, the weary, cynical writer, the slightly downtrodden woman who has to struggle against the odds – but then again the fact that they keep coming back only really testifies to how successful they were to begin with.
Awesomesauce!!I closed the book with a wicked smile across my face.First, the boy character made this book.Second, the way this story makes you feel like you're right there. Third, how can you not love a 600+ page King novel. The bigger the better in my opinion. One of his best for sure.
Μονο και μονο για εκεινο το πρωτο 1/3 που υποσχεθηκε πολλα, αλλα δεν...ποσο απογοητευτικο οταν ενα βιβλιο ξεκινα πολλα υποσχομενο και πολυυυυ δυνατα και τελικα καταληγεις να κοιτας ποσες σελιδες μενουν ως το τελος....Εεεεεεμμμμ τι γινεται? εχω φρικαρει !!!Για να δουμε, τι λεει και αυτος ο..δρομος..
“Dolls with no little girls around to mind them were sort of creepy under any conditions.”    Tak As a constant King reader, I was looking forward to diving into his twisted mindset again, for believe it or not this was my first King book this year and immediately from page one it felt like home. The whole setting for this book lends itself well to the extreme creepy factor from the ghost town in the middle of a desert to the long stretches of highway that just give this unsettling feeling lik
The whole setting for this book lends itself well to the extreme creepy factor from the ghost town in the middle of a desert to the long stretches of highway that just give this unsettling feeling like something bad is about happen.
“You said 'God is cruel' the way a person who's lived his whole life on Tahiti might say 'Snow is cold'.
Exploring addiction and alcoholism was well done as the subject hits close to home for Stephen King.
I would definitely still recommend it for the sharp writing and atmosphere but it isn’t like my favorite King book, I have read better.
Tak!This is a story about the little mining town of Desperation.
Collie brings passers-by into Desperation where the real nightmare begins.I loved this book from beginning to end, I was hooked from the very first page.
You could not wish for any more!People appear to have issues with the religious undertone of the book, but I personally enjoyed this aspect.
I felt like it was necessary in order for this story to progress and make sense.
It allowed for the character David Carver to really shine.
King really developed each with their own unique characterisation and this is truly why he is the King.One of my top King books.
So, I dropped the pretention and read a Stephen King novel.
True, I read several of King's works...in middle school...but I thought that it was time to give him another chance.
After all, King's popularity is eclipsed only by, oh, I don't know...Jesus?
Well, not Jesus...but someone popular.I'll admit, the story was engaging.
Unfortunately, the mediocrity of his prose is, at best, distracting and at worst infuriating.
I don't know, but King sure does: twenty-seven.
Metaphors are ham-fisted and cliched, character development is superficial at best, and the dialogue is trite and unconvincing.
The upshot to King's fast-paced, yet uninspired, novel?
It has ups and downs and definitely could have trimmed at least 75 pages or so with better editing, I think, but a good read. Heavy on the religious aspects, for a King novel. After reading this one, though, I ALWAYS have to then immediately read 'The Regulators', which is the 'other side of the story' written by King's friend, 'Richard Bachman'...--Jen from Quebec :0)
Although not one of my favorite Stephen King books I would still recommend it to all.
Tak!Desperation is probably the closest thing to a horror novel King had written since Needful Things, which was...
Tak!Conspiracy Theories:I find it strange that King used the Mr. Smiley on the bag of weed in Desperation, and then used it again TWO DECADES LATER in Mr. Mercedes.
I've been trying to six-degrees Mr. Mercedes into the rest of the King-verse since I read the book almost a year ago and I've been coming up empty.
I know it sounds strange, but it's technically NOT a King novel.
My sole reading of this novel was in my sophomore year of high school — about six years’ worth of stuff has happened to me since then.
This is perhaps the one and only time a King novel reads like Clive Barker, albeit with more doses of Jesus and Americana than Barker has ever gone for.
From him comes this novel’s most frustrating religious elements (the sardines and crackers scene— *rolls eyes into the back of my head*) and I’m just not here for it.Like The Dark Half and Firestarter before it, rereading this novel made me appreciate the work and see what it is others see.
UUUUUUUUUUGGGHHHH I FEEL SO BETRAYED BY THIS DUMB BOOK.The first half, maybe even two thirds and I was all HEY THIS MIGHT BE MY FAVORITE KING NOVEL.
DUDE!There's a movie adaptation where RON PERLMAN PLAYS THE COP!?
(And neither can his son for that matter, file that away for later...) How every single novel ends with a MAJOR deus ex machina??Usually he can come up with a better name for his 'deus' than God.The entire second half of Desperation is a pile of proselytizing garbage.
This got two stars for each hundred pages I could stand.So upset.
This book together with its companion novel, The Regulators penned by Stephen King under his pseudonym Richard Bachmann, are probably two of the scariest books I've ever read.
IN THESE SILENCES SOMETHING MAY RISE Oi, this book is a doozy! I read it months ago but only just finished its companion novel so I think I'm finally ready to organize my thoughts and write a review of this thing. I know I rated it three stars but that's really only in comparison to King's other work. Because compared with other writers, this book is far better, but compared to a lot of his other novels, it is just on the lower end of the Stephen King spectrum for me. Which really is too bad be
Among these strangers are the Carver family: Ralph, Ellie, and David who lost their young daughter/sister, Pie, at the hands of Entragian; a local drunk and veterinarian, Tom Billinglsey; tough but afraid Mary Jackson who saw her husband Peter murdered in front of her; and prize-winning legendary author Johnny Marinville, setting out on a cross-country voyage to gain substance for his new memoir: Travels with Harley.
The energy that Tak creates wears their bodies out too much, and any kind of flaws whatsoever grow exponentially in a short amount of time.
Stood up well after nearly twenty years. Too tired to put together a long review, but I want to point I reread this one right behind my second trip through It, and was surprised at how many similarities the two share. It is a far superior book, of course. There was also a nice reference to those pesky tommyknockers, as well. On to The Regulators now.
Overall I enjoyed Desperation and I'm still planning on reading The Regulators.
Religion was more of a theme with this book than the somewhat subtle undertones King usually uses but it didn't detract much for me.
It comes full circle through the characters and while King managed to create characters with human flaws, desires and thoughts, I didn't believe Johnny's part in it at the end.
The atmosphere that was created around it though was something, worth reading it for at the very least.
King told a story, he never claimed to have written a masterpiece and I didn't expect him to.
I have always liked this story, although not as much as it's other half, The Regulators, but I have to say that this time, unfortunately, Desperation lost a little something for me.
I wish, this time around, that there was a little more history behind this aspect of the story.
Personally, being a liberalish kind of girl, I think that it does far more harm than good, but this isn't the time for another of my rants.
Absolutely brilliant!
I am usually a slow reader and expect to take a while to digest a book of great size (as this book is over 700 pages long), this book took me less than a week to read!
The book was gripping at every sentence.
I loved King's use of the mad cop in the first few thirds of the book- the cops possession of the demonic entity known as 'Tak' provoked the protagonists horrific and desperate actions- hence the name of the novel- 'Desperation'.
This is definitely a horrific treat and one of my favorite Stephen King novels of all time, which is why I rewarded it with 5 stars.
I do think this is the one I enjoyed least in my King reading project this far (except maybe for the short distance I made into the 'Tower', but that I expected and also maybe 'The Dark Half', which was a disappointment, but still a way better book than this bloated thing).
Sequences of events that should be over in seconds are drawn out over a lot of pages and just when you think that there can't possibly be more anything to say or describe regarding it, it's retold from the start from another character's perspective.
Άνθρωποι που αναγκάζονται να παλέψουν για να γλιτώσουν σώοι και όσο πιο ασφαλείς γίνεται,μαζεύοντας τα κομμάτια τους.Δεν ξέρω γιατί,αλλά σε ορισμένα σημεία κουράστηκα να διαβάζω!
Μου φάνηκε πως ο King έκανε μερικούς αχρείαστους πλατειασμούς και περιγραφές,και σε αρκετά σημεία του ένιωθα τη διάθεση να πηδήξω παραγράφους(ανήκουστο!) Ίσως φταίει που είχα τόσο πρόσφατους τους "Ρυθμιστές" στο μυαλό μου,επαναλαμβάνω.
Ίσως η ιστορία 'χώλαινε' και πραγματικά πλατείαζε σε αρκετά σημεία,καταντώντας κουραστική.Δεν ισχυρίζομαι σε καμία περίπτωση πως δεν μου άρεσε το βιβλίο ή η υπόθεση,αλλά οπωσδήποτε έχω διαβάσει άλλα βιβλία του Βασιλιά που θα μείνουν για πάντα στην μνήμη μου,το υποσυνείδητο και την καρδιά μου και αξίζουν τα αστεράκια τους,κι ακόμα παραπάνω.
I say surprisingly good, because years ago I listened to something Stephen King read (can't remember what) and found his voice to be flat and emotionless.
It was like having him in my living room, an old friend come to visit, drink coffee, and tell me of his latest adventure.I reread a lot of King's books, but not Desperation or The Regulators since I first read them in the 90's.
And for those who like audiobooks, if you're a little deterred by Stephen King's voice at the beginning, persevere.
Unlike literary authors, who write about extraordinary people in regular situations, King writes about regular people in extraordinary situations, and that’s just fine with me.Desperation is reminiscent of King’s magnum opus The Stand, and King revisits many familiar themes such as good versus evil, salvation, redemption, faith, so forth.
However, I’d say the best thing about the novel is the spooky, desolate atmosphere of the ghost town in no-where Nevada where the action takes place.King’s a master at telling human, character-driven tales despite the presence of non-human, often demonic entities.
Just can't get into this one, nothing really compelling me to keep reading. Into the abandoned book pile it goes.
This book is different from everything else I have read by Stephen King so far because it is really focused on religion and beliefs, but some of the characters are not that compelling.The giant cop Collie Entragian regulates the traffic on Route 50, and those who don't obey the law are taken to Desperation, where strange things have happened.
In that place, an ancient evil force resides, and is getting stronger.This book is one of the creepiest I've read so far, with spiders, coyotes, snakes, scorpions, buzzards and any kind of creepy animal lurking around the corner, such as that evil force (Tak!) and the gory and macabre scenes, written with so vivid details and full of suspense.
Nope. King's work have always been a hit and miss for me. This one is definitely a miss.
You certainly can't take away from King's ability to weave a tale, insert gore, religion, faith, horror and bloody ooziness into one solid crazy ass novel.Some people have issues with the religious aspect of this book.
I am not a religious person by any means but this never really bothers me when reading books, especially horror books as this can be seen quite a bit with the whole good vs.
I still put it all in a fiction category and enjoy the read for what (I think) it's mean to be.While I did enjoy The Regulators a bit more my second time around, Desperation still holds its place in my heart between the two.
I malcapitati vengono fermati, con i pretesti più disparati, da Collie Entregian (un poliziotto di taglia XXXL, che fa il bello e soprattutto il cattivo tempo da quelle parti) e sbattuti in cella nella prigione di Desperation, una poco ridente cittadina su cui incombe l’ombra sinistra della miniera China Pit. Entregian, però, è solo una piccola parte della diabolica presenza che ha contagiato Desperation come un virus: l’entità che domina è terrificante, forse invincibile…Quello che il Re ci racconta è lo scatenarsi di una vera e propria guerra tra le forze del bene e quelle del male, e lo fa da par suo: fin dalle prime pagine si avverte una tensione che, con il procedere degli eventi, cresce, si fa spasmodica, fino a sfociare nell’horror vero e proprio, una tensione che ci tiene incollati alle pagine con la smania di sapere, di vedere, di capire.
I ja sam osoba kojoj smeta jedan deus ex machina pred kraj priče, jer to mi pokazuje da pisac nije imao pojma kako da završi priču i tu onda malo vara.
Jedinu zamjerku koju bi imao ovdje bi bila dužina priče, jer se King opet raspisao o svemu i svačemu i mislim da je moglo malo kraće.Možda da nije King ovo napisao, mislim da bi knjiga bila svrstana kao neki klasik horor književnosti, ali pošto je ovo samo King, ovo je samo "prosječno i dosadno djelo".Ocjena je nešto između 4 i 5, ali neka stoji 4.
