https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/395090.Ariel
Plus, you're kind of irritating.THE RABBIT CATCHERI went out with this guy once and then I found out he liked to catch rabbits.
Hah.THE BEE MEETINGI thought I'd like to join in village life and get involved with local societies and all that.
I liked it.STINGSNow I'm a real bee keeper.
You really don't want to, it's kind of a drag and there's nothing to do there, but you just feel you have to because you're a good person.LETTER IN NOVEMBERDear Ted - Fuck you - SylviaDEATH & COCheer up, things could be worse, I could be dead.
Sylvia Plath went on an expedition to a sort of emotional Antarctica, a place most people have heard of but never visited, where you experience love so intensely that it ends up killing you.
I remember that we were snowed in, and that my father shovelled a path to the house next door, so that we could at least visit them.
But when someone's written a poem like this about you, you're as immortal as the unnamed subject of Shakespeare's Sonnet XVIII.By the way, most people have been very dismissive of the movie with Gwynneth Paltrow and Daniel Craig.
Some things are best left unsought, some things need to be sensed rather than known, so I decide to surrender to Sylvia’s acidic voice and let the walls of this cage dissolve away and for the briefest of moments, I taste the undistinguishable flavor of exhilarating freedom.Let the poems speak for themselves.
“O God, I am not like youIn your vacuous black,Stars stuck all over, bright stupid confetti.Eternity bores me, I never wanted it.”YearsSylvia’s use of colloquial language and her disdainful tone puncture the balloon of comfort and challenge the reader, her assonant and imperfect rhymes structured in free verse blend with myth and natural imagery creating a surreal and hypnotic hum that soothes and strikes back like a cobra, drawing honest blood and recognition.
What do I think? I honestly don't know. My favorite poems were Elm, The Moon and the Yew Tree, and Edge. I admit that Sylvia Plath's poetry may be beyond my ability to fullly understand. I have The Collected Poems, which won the Pulitzer Prize in 1982, on my to-read shelf. Maybe the more I read the better I will understand. There is an aura about Sylvia Plath that I find fascinating. Her writing is so unique, so different from anything else, you can't help being drawn to it, like a moth to a flame.
“Cold glass, how you insert yourselfBetween myself and myself.I scratch like a cat.” These poems are jagged, visceral, and very, very raw. They’re angry and bruised, “extravagant, like torture.” And they are frequently charged with a dark, mirthless laughter. After all, “there is no fate that cannot be surmounted by scorn.” Or so Camus once said.As a total poetry novice, I might be way off base with some of my impressions—I didn’t even come close to understanding everything I read. But I do kno
“Cold glass, how you insert yourselfBetween myself and myself.I scratch like a cat.”
They’re angry and bruised, “extravagant, like torture.” And they are frequently charged with a dark, mirthless laughter.
After all, “there is no fate that cannot be surmounted by scorn.” Or so Camus once said.As a total poetry novice, I might be way off base with some of my impressions—I didn’t even come close to understanding everything I read.
But I do know that she shared some of her deepest, most intense feelings with me.
“There is the sunlight, playing its blades,Bored hoodlum in a red room.”
It probably won't be right to draw comparisons between the Sylvia Plath who wrote Mad Girl's Love Song during her time at Smith's and the Sylvia Plath of Ariel.
There's a world of difference between a Sylvia merely mourning lost love and a bitter, lonesome, vengeful, depressed Sylvia trying to live out the last vestiges of a tumultuous life by seeking a form of catharsis through these poems.
Merely trying to imagine the ways, in which this lady could have further overwhelmed the literary world had she lived a full life, gives me goosebumps.Who would have thought that cutting your thumb on a chopping board could transform into exquisite poetry?A million stars.
I picked this up last night, wanting to read just one poem, The Moon and the Yew Tree specifically, but I ended up reading all of them, the entire book.
I won't pretend to understand what most of her poems were about, but they left me in goosebumps and ashiver.
Her poetic prose and timings are undeniable.
Read it.
Addendum : as I was reading this it dawned on me her poems are undeniably Gothic, weird this didn't occur to me before.
Her every poem makes me suck in my breath.
I had to get this mainly because of the cover, but I can say that though I have the 'all poems' book, having this separately was worth it....And I a smiling womanI am only thirty.And like that cat I have nine times to die...(from "Lady Lazarus")There are so many themes I could get from here: colors (red, white, black, etc.), moods (uncertainty, calm, quiet joy, being distant), and subjects (motherhood, marriage expectations, mornings, the "still alive" after another suicide attempt, feverishness, something that reads like a nightmare, death-waiting, a solitary autumn walk, children with balloons...), and nature (bees, flowers, moon, night, sheep, trees..)Some poems were difficult to open, difficult to find their meaning, but that just means repeated readings might open them.
Haunting and honest - a scalpel that cuts so deep and quick you don't even feel it.

I'm wanting to get into more poetry, but I have to classify books of poetry in two categories: poems I understood, and poems I didn't.
The majority of these poems went over my head.
I saw in a previous review that Plath writes very personally, which I suppose is what went wrong here.
There were so many abstract references and just being plain honest, 80% of these poems I just had no clue what she was trying to communicate, other than the fact that she wanted to die.
Stunned.Destroyed.Took the wind out of my sails,and the light out of my eyes.Not wanting to curse but fuck me! could she write! As for "Daddy" what heart crushing despair.
My favourite poems out of this collection: Lady Lazarus, Tulips and Death & Co.
A lot of the poems went right over my head, but a few I enjoyed, including Lady Lazarus, The Rival and The Moon and the Yew Tree.
Of them all, I think Lady Lazarus had the most ‘pull’ in that it’s quite deeply emotive in its portrayal of wanting to be dead and the mixture of emotions that comes with this.
I’m just not sure that for the most part, Plath’s words are my kind of words.
I’m not a big poem fan, and felt next to no connection with any of the other poems.
Definitely contain some of the best poems by Sylvia Plath. The one I most enjoyed was Lady Lazarus.
Sylvia Plath had a way of rendering things mysterious and disturbing, compelling you to read each poem again and again to unlock the meaning. Compared to The Colossus, Ariel feels a little more mature, a little less concerned with the world, and a lot more fixated on death, specifically, suicide. These beautiful poems are sometimes difficult to read.
The restored edition of Ariel is the group of poems that Sylvia Plath left as a manuscript at the time of her death by suicide in 1963.
The originally published Ariel was edited by her former husband, Ted Hughes, who substituted some of her other poems written in the last months of her life.
The forward by their daughter, Frieda Hughes, discusses the strengths and weaknesses of each grouping of poems, trying to be fair to each parent.The poems in Ariel are brilliant and powerful, but often sad, since they were written at a devastating time in Plath's life.
The most accurate thing about Ariel has been said  "In these poems Plath becomes herself"  I fear that I cannot be objective when I am writing (or talking) about Sylvia Plath because she speaks directly to my heart.
Sylvia Plath is raw, brutal and bitter.
Also, you can listen Sylvia Plath reading it  here  There are also other poems she reads from the collection of Ariel, look it up if you haven't already.
Of course then there's Daddy, Elm, Ariel, A birthday present, Letter in November which I love.
Plath is my love and she has shaped me, so yes I can't be objective.
(gorgeous, like 6 stars of gorgeous2 stars lost for outrageously gratuitous use of racial slur and wtf use of the holocaust as symbolic of personal family relationship)
This is Sylvia. Purging.Hushed and frantic and brutal.Written during the last months of her life…her peak was so so beautiful. Tragic.
It feels like Sylvia Plath’s life overshadowed her literary value; her autobiographical novel The Bell Jar was like a confessional and people tend to read it for all the juicy bits.
That book made me want to re-read The Bell Jar which I loved but instead decided it was time to give her poetry a go.However I am very aware that I don’t know how to review poetry let alone a whole collection, so this is more about my experience with this book.
I don't feel like I have enough knowledge of the craft to fully appreciate poetry, and so I can't really comment on how good it is.
Sylvia Plath is a poet I do like, but I don't love all of her poems.
This collection in particular was a little bit of a mixed bag, but I feel like I'll appreciate it more and more on subsequent readings - and I will most definitely be returning to it.
The majority of the poems have a strong focus on death, at least for me, which does not make for light reading.
Deus é mulher.
I am inhabited by a cry.Nightly, it flaps outLooking, with its hooks, for something to love I opened it just to get a glimpse, only an idea of Sylvia Plath's poetry and man, was I hooked! Her words grabbed me by the neck and dragged me all the way, intoxicating me with bitterness, irony and hard-boiled truth. At times I'd get this feeling of "age", this smell of a time before the 20th century, and then I'd come across a poem like Lesbos and receive the "slap-in-the-face" treatment. It was a jou

[Ahah, ağaçlar kuşlar böjükler ve lanet çoban çeşmesi optimist pastoral şiir oluyo bu durumda asdfasdf özür dilerim asdfasdf]neyse, okudukça daha net kavramaya başladım tabi, Plath'i önceden ne kadar çok okuduğum pek bir işe yaramadı.
şiirin bir güzel yanı da, asıl anlamından bambaşka, ve üstelik üzerine yapılan yorumlardan da bambaşka anlayabilmek (mesela 'Oraya Varmak' veya 'Lesbos' gibi).
sadece ben, şiir çevirisinde önce anlam dediğim için çevirmenin haklı kaygılarının neden olduğu, özellikle kıta ayrımı olan şiirlerde dizelerin (mesela bir kıtanın son dizesi ile bir sonraki kıtanın ilk dizesinin) yerlerinin değiştirilmesinden hoşlanmadım çünkü okumamı zorlaştırdı.
/ It can sew, it can cook / It can talk, talk, talk.' 'Out of the ash / I rise with my red hair / And I eat men like air.' 'While / From the bottom of the pool, fixed stars / Govern a life.' 'I do not fear it: I have been there.' 'I am terrified by this dark thing / That sleeps in me; / All day I feel its soft, feathery turnings, its malignity.''These lamps, these planets / Falling like blessings''I am nobody; I have nothing to do with explosions.' With fiery intensity Plath - again - manages to use the personal trinkets of her haunted psyche to weave the most elegant and ambitious of poems.
For even when I came across a poem I didn’t fully understand, I could still sense the power within the words of Sylvia Plath which are precise, explosive, darkly beautiful.In the afterword to Ariel author biographer Hal Hager notes the “paradoxical union of the self-destructiveness and creative energy that was the core of (Plath’s) personality”.
She writes to her son:O love, how did you get here?O embryoRemembering, even in sleep, Your crossed position.The blood blooms cleanIn you, ruby.Just prior to her death in 1962 Sylvia Plath took up beekeeping, a fact which I found fascinating.
The entire collection left me in full appreciation of the genius that was Sylvia Plath.
But after reading her poems, everything made sense.
I could feel the dilemmas of Sylvia; the gigantic gap between the longings of her soul and the desperate reality of womanhood, her dead father and infidel husband.Sylvia Poetry is mysterious and savage, and her imagination goes beyond time and places.
What you will feel, though, is the heaviness of Sylvia's troubled soul.It was very hard to read these poems and not to imagine what Sylvia did to herself after a few days of publishing Ariel.
Reading her poems felt -for me at least- like going into her inside and discovering her.
The short length of the book and seeming simplicity - a woman rides her horse through the countryside - is belied by the incredible amount of attention given to it.
The use of dazzling imagery, vivid emotional resonance, historical and biblical allusions, and a breathtaking sense of movement, explores several different subjects, including - poetic creativity; sexuality; animism; suicide and death; self-realization and self-transformation; and mysticism.If one is so inclined, one can even connect this interpretation to the feminist and creative interpretations to suggest that Plath's ultimate goal was to relate ecstatic frenzy - how we identify and understand the frenzy ultimately reveals our own personality and interest.
Sylvia Plath has a very singular voice-she might be talking about bloody veins and suicide or envy or simply describing doom in the morning sun but it's picturesque and it affects me in the most indefatigable way, almost subliminally-like the beautiful and fatal thoughts of Esther Greenwood.
You need to look closer and dig deeper because underneathe that facade of despair is a more subtle shade of human conscience, designed to be missed.
My own favorites were: Ariel, The Moon and the Yew Tree and Berck Plage.
I don't think I can ever get her compelling words or her passionate stanzas out of my mind.
