https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10776592-the-boy-in-the-suitcase
-Short chapters and great pacing made this book a breeze to go through.-I felt like I was right in the story and could visualize everything going on.I would recommend this to people looking for a great thriller---I would also recommend this to anyone who likes to read books involving strong female characters.
This recommendation would be made to 2 separate groups.I could definitely see this book being made into an incredible film.I will buy a copy for my boyfriend's Mom who likes thrillers---I think she will love this one.
Meanwhile, in Denmark, a nurse named Nina Borg finds him in a suitcase and sets out to find his family.
My problem with the book is the character Nina Borg.
She is a nurse who works helping refugees and immigrants; in fact, she is totally obsessed with helping people, to the point that her own family is neglected.
Towards the end of the book there is a reference to a childhood trauma which is supposed to explain her compulsion to help people.

I liked the story line but that's about it.
I don't think it was executed well enough for my tastes or maybe I am judging this book rather harshly after just reading two great books.
3)Every chapter was a new character with their story and no corralation to the previous chapter.
4)I wouldn't have minded the chapter jumping so much if at least held my interest long enough to read on which it didn't.Other than the title and the first page of the book everything else was a bore.
Even though this book started out a bit confusing - the characters are jumbled together and introduced a little haphazardly, I found that part of the intrique!
It does start to flow once it gets going and the characters all mesh together in the way the author, I think, intended.
I LOVED the fact that it's an international book - based in a Danish setting with the richness of the area and people so descriptive in this tale.When Nina, a nurse and working at a Copenhagen center for social services, agrees to do a favor for a friends, she is shocked to see the suitcase she is sent to get has a small 3 year old Lithuianian child inside, stolen from his mother.
Danish writer Lene Kaaberbol’s 2008 novel The Boy in the Suitcase, originally published as Drengen i kufferten, introduces us to the very original mystery heroine Nina Borg.Neither a police detective nor a prosecutor, Nina is a Red Cross nurse working in a welfare clinic, down in the trenches dealing with domestic violence and substance abuse.
I liked her and I was digging how Kaaberbol put this unique but contextually understandable protagonist and crime situation together.
A little three-year-old boy is found in a bag in a train station locker and Nina is given the responsibility for helping to keep him alive and safe from the serious mess he’s in.
(Yeah, I know it's not crime - I'm making a point here.) Because these series titles didn't hint that any particular character(s) were central to the overall story arc, I was on the edge of my fucking seat when the characters were in danger, because I couldn't rely on them being the center of the story's universe and thus have to make it into subsequent books.
I say this because my perspective on Nina's family changed about a dozen times during the reading of this book.
Because the book was originally written in Danish, the names of all of the characters are northern European and may be a bit confusing at first for the average native-speaker of English.
The audio was so excellently done that I purchased a hard back of the book, and when two more novels followed the character of Nina, I had to buy those as well.
I saw the later books again illustrating a handful of excellent stories that tie to the situations a typical relief nurse - and somebody with Nina's psychological mindset - might encounter.
An excellent book!
What is about the Scandinavian/Northern European mystery/thriller writers?
This book is set in Denmark and the main character is an aid nurse dealing with immigrants.
Immigrants in Europe are a touchy subject, a bit like the Hispanic/Mexican illegal immigrants to this country.
The story deals with dark topics and is very gritty.
Much grittier, I have to admit, than my view of what Denmark is really like.
A boy is found in a suitcase.
Where is his family?
Do you want to know?
Read this book!
It's a nice trip!
What an intriguing read! While I predicted the twist from approximately halfway through, I still greatly enjoyed the journey. This book is very fast paced and much easier to read than other Nordic Noir fiction I've read. Full review to come soon.
The Boy in the Suitcase is yet another entry in the growing catalog of Scandinoir coming to these shores, and in many ways fits the general pattern: a socially maladapted protagonist, evil doings involving underage victims, societal rot, Eastern European villains, heat waves.
The narrative switches between Nina’s efforts to figure out who the boy is and why he’s in Denmark, the Lithuanian mother’s attempts to find out what happened to her son, the Polish and Lithuanian kidnappers’ attempts to get paid, and the ultimate culprit’s maneuverings to make everything turn out right.This multi-viewpoint approach works pretty well and ensures the reader doesn’t spend prolonged periods with any character who bugs him/her.
I'm quitting this book. It might be interesting, it might not, but I really don't like four different point of views for telling a story. Twenty-two pages in, five chapters and four characters; it's a nauseating whirl. This isn't the first time I've seen this technique, it was another Nordic Noir book too, maybe it's a regional style issue, but I hate it.
As I was reading the novel and observing some of the ridiculous actions that Nina took, I would often say to myself, "No one is really this dumb." But then I would think about the people encounter in my job (I work with the general public) and would correct myself: yes, some people--in fact, far too many people--really are as stupid as Nina.
So, I guess the general imprudence of Nina's actions are actually realistic.Overall, this was a quick, easy read.
Rate 2  stars. Nina Borg, Red Cross nurse, wife and mother of two to the rescue! Reviewer's continually compare this to Steig Larson’s “The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo.” Both are action packed by respected Danish authors. It is a really satisfying account of the rescue of an abducted child. My low rating is based on the writing style rather than the plot. It did not flow well, choppy and difficult to follow. In any event it’s still worth reading if this is your genre.
Rate 2 ½ stars. Nina Borg, Red Cross nurse, wife and mother of two to the rescue! Reviewer's continually compare this to Steig Larson’s “The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo.” Both are action packed by respected Danish authors. It is a really satisfying account of the rescue of an abducted child. My low rating is based on the writing style rather than the plot. It did not flow well, choppy and difficult to follow. In any event it’s still worth reading if this is your genre.

The mystery is intriguing and I found myself really identifying with parts of Nina's character- more specifically, her quirky, disordered thinking, and I really sympathised with her genuine desire to help this child.One part of the plot really aggravated me, however.(view spoiler)[ Nina's decision to not involve the police was very bizarre.
I suspect this decision was taken to draw out the plot  (hide spoiler)]The other Scandinavian thrillers I've read, The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo series, and the Department Q series are both better.
This is still worth a read.
When the book first starts it is a little confusing, trying to figure out who is in what country, but easier as the book goes on and more is revealed. Very well written, with building suspense and a slow reveal. Although what is going on we know from the beginning but the why of it remains a mystery until almost the end.
On top of that, the narrator wasn’t much able to differentiate the voices of the female characters, making it even more confusing.The twisted web of the plot involves several interesting and well-developed characters: Wealthy Jan Marquat, able to buy whatever he wants; Lithuanian Jucas, with a fierce temper, and his girlfriend named Barbara; Sigita Ramoskiene, mother of Mikas, the boy in the title; and Nina Borg, a Danish Red Cross nurse who is unable to say no to any of the world’s downtrodden.

Another entry in the Scandinavian mystery/thriller category. This one was very good and not nearly as violent as Steig Larsson's first book (I prefer the lower violence levels). Will read the next book then see if this is a series I want to stick with. This book had lots of characters moving in and out. I did not pay close enough attention to this in the beginning, so sometimes was confused about who was related to whom. I'll do better on the next book!
Come to think of it "The Killing" was based from a Danish's tv, so I'm really hoping they could consider making this book into adaptations so that Lene Kaaberbol would be famous enough that people notice her AND GET HER TO TRANSLATE THE THIRD SILVERHORSE BOOK!!!
*I read this during the time when it was confirmed that the unidentified body that was found burned in an abandoned building in Johore was the missing girl, Dirang, and just earlier the little boy who slipped into the lake in Titiwangsa Park and drowned.
I found myself stopping every few chapters, not because I wanted to think about it consciously, but it kind of felt like the story was simmering way back at the base of my brain, like when you put on a batch of ham-and-potato-and-cheese soup in the slow cooker allll day so that when you get home from work the entire house has that gentle savory scent, and it greets you as you walk in the door.
And so I'd pick it up again later that day, and even though there's multiple POVs and the setting skips around as a result I didn't have trouble picking up where I'd left off.
Particularly when her friend turns up dead, Nina knows she is on the run for their lives.The book takes twists and turns, every chapter ends on a cliffhanger, and it rockets along at an amazing speed.
This is more a thriller than a mystery, as we know from early on who the boy is (although Nina does not—he speaks a foreign language she doesn't recognize.) But we don't know who wants him or why until close to the end, and then there's a fabulous climax with lots of action and it's very satisfying in the end.
If you like foreign-set thrillers, this book is for you!

Predobra!!!! ;)
Read for Battleship, WOBBLE challenge, NBRC group.
A super exciting book that deals with a heart-breaking situation that occurs in the world. It was difficult to pull myself away from this book. The story of Nina and the young boy she found in a suitcase takes us as readers on a roller coaster ride that continues to the very end of the book. I am anxious to begin the next book of the series.
This was my introduction to authors Kaaberbol and Friis, and it was a wowser! Their intricate plotting, clean, tight, sometimes visceral prose, and characters about whom we care all combine to form an unforgettable thriller, the first in the Nina Borg trilogy. A Red Cross nurse, Nina is an inveterate do-gooder with an unshakable belief that she can make almost anything better, much to the chagrin of her husband. This combined with her role as a wife and mother often presents her with frightenin
Their intricate plotting, clean, tight, sometimes visceral prose, and characters about whom we care all combine to form an unforgettable thriller, the first in the Nina Borg trilogy.
I should also mention that she is a very good friend for when Karin, last seen gives her a key to a public locker in the Copenhagen train station and implores her to take care of the contents she agrees.
Karin had warned her not to open the suitcase until she left the station.
It was there that she opened the suitcase and found the boy, perhaps three-years-old, naked, drugged, but alive.
She is now attempting to keep her "do gooder" compulsions close to home, no longer flying off to exotic countries but staying close to her husband and children.There is a feeling that Nina not only needs to save the world but perhaps escape the sometimes overwhelming commitments of being a wife and mother and it is hard not to sympathize with her husband's anger and feelings of abandonment.But what can Nina do when an old friend is viciously murdered and her last plea is to Nina who opens up a suitcase only to discover (as the title says) a boy-a 3 year old baby who has been abducted from his mother in Vilnius.Kaaberbol orchestrates the different and ultimately converging story arcs well and the book is an intense tour of the dark side of Denmark.
I saw some of the reviews this book was receiving so I decided to the audio version.
She brings Nina Borg to life along with the other characters.
This is a very well written story not only about Nina but about 3-year-old Mikas who is abducted from his mother Sigita Ramoskiene.
The story takes place in Denmark and Lithuania.
So on the audio book you really have to pay attention until you get to know the characters.
What a horrible story, a little boy, drugged and naked stuffed in a suitcase, being sold for $1 million.
