https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/365522.Juxtaposition
The conclusion of the Apprentice Adept trilogy. Although that trilogy seems to have grown somewhat since the first time I read the first three. Now it's a seven part series: two trilogies and a finale apparently.The end of the first trilogy ties up all the loose ends. The ending isn't ever in any doubt – the good guys win, the bad guys lose. The journey is the fun. Now I'm gonna have to find the rest of the series aren't I?
He’s self-confident (of course) and self-assured (obviously), and the few times that he’s not the best at what he does, he’s at least second-best (clearly), so it’s somewhat understandable, but he lacks empathy toward anyone else who doesn’t meet his own standards (always).So, I re-read the series, and plan to finish off the Battle Circle series (I already picked up the rest of the books in the series), but I think after these, I’ll be done with Piers Anthony for good.
The red and blue adept continue their spat2 March 2012 This is the final book in the first trilogy of the Apprentice Adept series and is where the battle between the Blue Adept (Style) and the Red Adept comes to a conclusion. The final parts of the book are very action orientated as the battle rages across two interconnected worlds. Personally I have no idea why the Red Adept was so intent on killing Style, but it is a conflict, and it is a requirement of most literature that there be a conflict
I believe that it is in this book that Style wins the game and becomes a citizen, and despite now being allowed to clothe himself, discovers that despite being a citizen, he still sits at the bottom of the ladder and now faces new challenges to increase his status in the world.
Despite it being a very opaque organisation that seeks to strike down any treaty or law that restricts trade, in some cases it is beneficial.
I will probably consider writing about the next trilogy, though the problem is I really cannot remember the content, and am unsure if I actually read them.
On the planet Proton, science works and magic doesn't, but juxtaposed with this world is another frame, that of Phaze, where magic works, but science doesn't.
Stile has been prophesied to ameliorate this destruction, but many powerful people in both frames are out to stop him, denying the destabilization and wanting to maintain their present status.
What Stile must accomplish, jumping back and forth between frames, is enough work for ten men.
Anthony's world, and it's backstory, contain logical explanations for the fantastic occurrences therein.
World-building does not come at the expense of characters, either.
The Citizens' culture seems about as patriarchal as it gets - the women go for medical/surgical beauty improvements while the men are content to be fat slobs, which would only be mildly eyebrow-raise-worthy if it wasn't explained as "The vanity of women caused them to go this route." In a book describing a male-gaze paradise, that was almost enough to cause me to throw the book across the room.This was originally the end of the trilogy, and it's a perfectly good end, for what it is - the additional four books are definitely only for the faithful.
I strongly encourage this be read as the entire series. The last books go in a very different direction than the first few.At first, this seems a rather typical fantasy type book. Toward the end, well, the comparison to our own world is inevitable and powerful. Why can't we all just get along?I'm giving the series a rating of 4. Some of the books in the series are better than others. As a whole, I think it's worthy of a 4.
The weakest of the Apprentice Adept trilogy.The old characters are moved about like chess pieces.The new characters are uni-dimensional and just plot devices.The whole book is really a plot device to get the first two books to lie down and be quiet.If you have put your effort into the first 500+ pp and need to see that it all comes out all right, by all means go ahead, but not Anthony's best
This book taught me a very important thing, the meaning of the word Juxtaposition. I used it incessantly after and discovered that professors really like it in essays.
2/1/2013
With the power of citizenship behind him he'll be able to move back and forth between worlds without fear and all those resources can help him finally sort out the mysteries surrounding the attacks on his life.The last book ended with him winning a challenge against the murderer of his other self but he still needs to find out what set everything in motion.
His dream of becoming citizen and then hoping back over to Phaze to enjoy his new wife without a care in the world disappears like a puff of smoke because he's got a whole new set of challenges.
So the Game comes to a very anti-climatic conclusion since the final contest was a poetry competition which was never enthralling enough to pull attention away from the fact that hero was going win or the book would be much shorter than it was.
After Stile discovers this he is told that it is his job to move a large amount of "phazite" from Phaze to Proton to make that happen.
So, in short, Juxtaposition is the wrap up of the Game and mystery story lines from prior books with the added challenge of moving "phazite" from Phaze to Proton.
Misogyny and sexism play major roles in this book. It’s kind of sad. Every woman is objectified, her body described and rated for attractiveness. Stile is horrified that he gets beaten by a woman in a contest. And on and on. The storyline is enjoyable. But I had to edit the demeaning portions out as I read it to my kids.
This is definitely my favorite book of the initial trilogy. A lot more world building of course, less over misogyny and a happy ending. With how strongly this book ended I'll have to give the next trilogy a chance and see if it measures up.
You've come this far...This wraps up the first Apprentice Adept series, and if you liked them, you will love this. Explains the twists and turns that kept you turning the page (or swiping the finger) from the previous books.
Slow at the beginning. Gets better in the middle and towards the end.
was great. wish there was another one.
Great finish to the series.
This concluded a storyline nicely. It’s been a bit of a weird run in the world, but good to add some new Anthony to my list.
A good conclusion to the trilogy, that seemed slightly anticlimactic, but still created a satisfying ending to the our main heroes.
I tried not to look at the cover before opening the book to read each time…So, lots of wacky things happen, and there is a nice twist at the end – it was pretty well telegraphed though, but deserved.
He does put an actual ending in this book – although it still leaves a ton of things up in the air – the big one being what the actual status of the world(s) is/are!!
Oh wait, except we never find out about the “outcast” unicorn Belle’s resolution…she helps out then the book ends.
I originally read this series over 20 years ago.
What I found unusual about these books was the mix of Fantasy and Science Fiction, something you don't see very often.
Juxtaposition is the ending to a three book story arc that was the original trilogy for this series.
There are more books in the series now; a total of seven.
So, if you are looking for a wonderful book to read and don't know what to choose, pick up the entire original The Apprentice Adept trilogy.
I wonder what new adventures await Stile next in Out of Phaze?
Stile has to save two worlds at tghe same time and with the help of his friends, and some of his foe, he stops Proton(the science world) and Phaze(the magical world) by juxtaposing them.
Stile also needs to figure out which world he belongs to.
Thousands of lives are in jepordy and its up to Stile, this nobody from Proton, who turned into the most powerful magician in Phaze, to save them.
When the worlds juxapose, Stile will not be able to travel into both of them.
Stile tries to find a loophole that alows him to travel through the curtain.
I love these books sooooooooo much.
While I'm purging I might as well throw in this book from my early adolescence.
I blame this book for my adolescent tendency to strip naked whenever I was faced by an awkward social situation.
I got down to my boxers on that occasion, and had the good sense to stop there.
I remember being incensed because a girl wouldn't stop staring at the slit as if my reproductive organs would pop out at any minute.
At the time I felt this must be what it's like when men cannot help but stare at the cleavage of their dining companions.
As with the first two books, I liked the parallel worlds.
As expected, Style wins the game and becomes a Citizen.
I wondered what they'd do after that and was not left disappointed.
The Citizens also gamble and jockey for power.
The self-willed robot idea was well explored.
I was more drawn to the contrast between magic and proton's energy.I thought this was a 7 book series but found out it is two trilogies and a finale.
I hope I like the second trilogy as much.
I'm worried about the splitting because I like the Proton side.
The third in the series finally separates the two worlds. There is one item that truly irritated me throughout Juxtaposition. In the other novels it is quite secret that Stiles can shift between the two worlds, but in the third everybody and his brother knows all the details of Stiles journey back and forth. If it wasn't for Anthony's excellent action writing and creative game elements, I probably would have tossed it aside. It still amazes me this series hasn't been done in at least film or Anime format.
I read this as a stand alone book, not realizing that it was the third book in a series. Could possibly explain why it took awhile to figure out what was going on.Nevertheless I found it quite an interesting book with this kind of half science fiction and half fantasy world going on. I liked both worlds and our hero was quite fascinating. I was also quite interested in both love interests, one on each world. Not sure I liked the outcome but liked the book.
Something about Pier Anthony series always seem to find me slogging my way through to finish the last book. Yes, I know that he wrote more after this one, but I barely remember that I might have read Out of Phaze. I certainly didn't read any of the others. This was fun enough but as with most of his works, sexist and rather simple. Anyway, it's the last of the Adepts for me in my Year of Nostalgic Rereads...
Always kinda liked this series, a bit of a guilty pleasure; re-read it recently with a certain nostalgia. I felt the protagonist's adventures in the scientific world of Proton were a lot more compelling than his adventures in the magical world, since as an Adept he had the power to basically wish for anything he wanted in Phaze. I enjoyed his climb through the Tourney and up the ranks of the Citizenry, I liked the robot equal rights subplot, and I liked the book's ending.
This is another that was kind of 'meh'. It wasn't as much fun as the previous entry in the series; where previously Stile was trying to advance in the Game and win Citizenship, this book follows him and his new wife as they amble along on their honeymoon and keep getting delayed by interference. The interest didn't really pick up until closer to the end, with the merging of the frames and the challenges involved.
About time!Man, after getting hooked on the characters in Book 1, then the intense build up of Book 2, I could not finish Book 3 fast enough.The plot was pretty simple, and awfully predictable. But I've found all of Piers' books this way, and what kept me in the series was his high action stories, interesting characters, and the interesting environments.I found myself predicting most of this book before I finished Book 1. But please don't let that bother you, it's still a fun read.
