https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18144124-i-am-pilgrim
Despite its huge wealth, vast oil reserves, and love of high-tech American armaments, nothing really works in Saudi Arabia.The driver thought I was crazy - but then his religion thinks stoning a woman to death for adultery is reasonable, so I figured we were about even.
This whole book is about a white American milking 9/11 as an excuse to defeat the crazy Muslims.
And in case of married male committing adultery with a married female, they shall receive one hundred lashes and be stoned to death.— Sahih Muslim, 17:4191I read on for another couple hundred pages after the Islamophobia started because I wanted to give the book a chance to redeem itself.
Like when he robs a bank for useless records (because in this high-tech age super-spies don't computer?), or goes to the FBI for a contact because he knows fewer (actually he knows none at all?) hackers/tech people in the intelligence community than the FBI director...despite the fact you were station agent in the UK???(How is that possible?) Oh, and please write the obligatory ops, hits, and covert happenings with a little thought.
I don't really have time to be original because I'm writing about cheekbones and stiletto heels, so let's just make him a Muslim who decides he hates 'Merica because his dad died...at the hand of other Muslims.
However, despite being the top agent, you decide to get out of the trade.
But, before you do, you decide to write a book about your exploits which, despite the secrecy of it all, the government allows to be published.
You befriend him instead because he's a Great American Hero.
Unlike all the foreign scum you have killed over the years who deserved all they got because they're not American.I'm halfway through this garbage and am determined to persevere just to see how much worse it can get.
WOW!!!
Such is the case with 'I Am Pilgrim'.
The style of writing is fantastic, the plot totally mesmerising and the character development superb, so much so I even began to empathise with the fundamentalist lunatic.
It is 700 pages of intelligent, engrossing and breathtaking writing, I was disappointed to finish this one, not because I was dissatisfied with the ending, but because I had been swept up in the entire story and didn't want it to end.
I cannot recommend 'I Am Pilgrim' highly enough.
I finally finished this monster of a book!
I normally read a book in a days time, but this one wouldn't allow that.
I kept having to put the book down to look up stuff.
The author captured my attention so much that I wanted to see what the characters were seeing.
I love when that happens.
The only problem is..it takes me forever to read the book.There has been a murder in a run down hotel in New York.
A woman has been soaked in a tub of acid and her teeth removed.
The killer does not want this w
I'm going to call him Scott, but he has so many different names that I don't think he remembers his own either.
\Mostly I was thinking about how the secret world never leaves you-it's always waiting in the darkness, ready to gather its children back again.I don't want to give too much of the book away.
(This would have gotten a full five star otherwise)The book does drag at times, but if I put it down I could feel it calling to me, I couldn't take not knowing what was going on when I wasn't reading.
Everyone loves this book but me.
I am so shocked, confused and flabberghasted by all of the gushing, rave reviews of this book!
(?)I Am PilgrimSummary: A Jason Bourne-like super spy must stop a genius jihadist planning a pandemic by unleashing a potent strain of smallpox which will kill off most of the population in the United States.My thoughts: This book is a long-winded string of action spy movie cliches.
The dialogue is so silly, it sounds as if it was written by a 12-yr-old boy who has watched every 007 James Bond movie ever made a million times.
(eye roll)MGM is already adapting this book into a film.
By the time I got around to reading the book, I'd forgotten why I requested it, and that turned out to be a very good thing.
I prefer my surprises and plot twists to be unadulterated by book jacket blurbs and blabby reviewers.Here's the all-you-need-to-know version of the plot:The man who calls himself Pilgrim has a long history in secret operations.
Not simple at all, and that's why I loved it so and wanted to give it six stars.
Lots of globe trotting, with just the right amount of detail about each location to make it feel real without sounding like a tourist guide.
For all the intricate plotting the story too often depends on some pretty unbelievable coincidences, all of it a result of trying to lever far too much in.
There is simply no need to try to mesh a New York murder mystery with an international terrorist plot (not to mention a revenge vendetta).
It's not even clear what kind of book the author is trying to write.
He's like a cypher squeezed into whichever literary genre Hayes is cheerfully butchering at any given time.However it's the tone and undercurrent of this book that are particularly repellent.
Terry Hayes is absolutely Brilliant!
I loved this book so much I slowed down my reading because I didn't want it to end.
The best book I have read in a long time.
This book takes place all over the world ( including Greenwich, CT, where the main character was brought up after his mother died ).
It's not only a fantastic story but it has such wonderful character development.
I cried in parts, that's how good the character development was!!!
Without giving away too much I Iove how it took a spiritual twist at the end.
It was absolutely wonderful!!!
In a cheap hotel room, Scott Murdock, a forensic expert, searches for any clues or evidence from a particularly gruesome murder.
As the story unfolds it becomes clear this is no ordinary crime thriller but much, much more.
Murdock is a former member of a covert intelligence organization and top level government officials want him back.
Scott has no option but to accept the assignment and try to survive a deadly secret known to only eleven people.
It is definitely one of the best crime/spy thrillers out there.
"Who is this guy, Terry Hayes?", I asked myself when I was 200 pages in to the 600+ page I Am Pilgrim I was so hooked I had to read a bio of the author and you might want to also.
It's 600+ pages requires a time commitment but reads quite quickly.
It starts off with an expertly described ghastly murder scene of a young woman found dead in a bath of acid in a dingy hotel called The Eastside Inn. I couldn't believe where this beginning took me.
I Am Pilgrim is one of the best spy thrillers I've read in some time.
Take my word for it - get it - read it.
Λίγο με αφορά το γεγονός πως η ιστορία καταγράφεται και υποστηρίζεται κυρίως από την πλευρά της Αμερικής Αφού πραγματεύεται μια κατασκοπευτική (αντί) τρομοκρατική κατάσταση ανάμεσα σε Αμερική και Μέση Ανατολή.
Δεν γράφτηκε για μας μάθει αν ειναι καλή η Αμερική και ποσό σάπια και διεφθαρμένη η Μ.Ανατολη.
Η αλήθεια ειναι κάπου στη μέση ( κατα την ταπεινή μου άποψη)Ωστόσο ειναι ένα βιβλίο που σε ρουφάει από την πρώτη στιγμή και σε κρατάει σε υπερένταση μέχρι το τέλος.
Η τρυφερότητα και ο ευαισθησία ειναι αυτό που έρχεται σε αντίθεση με την ίδια την αλήθεια που πραγματεύεται η ιστορία μας.
The story begins with an unusually bizzare murder.....no big deal, right?
(there's even a visit from a relative of Annie Wilkes and a place so sinister and isolated, it's referred to as The Overlook Hotel)Although the character's and their background stories kept me interested throughout the 600+ pages, there were times our protagonist's adventures were a bit predictable and DID make me think of James Bond, but hey.....I've always liked 007.Great debut novel......look forward to the movie!
I did not finish the story of pilgrim.i.am, despite others raving about his rapping abilities secret agent prowess.
There are several reasons, but the top reason being that he is an utter cunt.His nicknames for women in "male" jobs are ridiculous; "Wunderbra" because any woman with big tits is obviously too stupid to have a good job and should, quote, come from Hooters.
He's the most sexist character I've come across in a while.
I can't imagine the book getting better or Mr. Pilgrim growing as a person at all.
I feel bad about all the other books I've rate 1 star because this was even worse than those.
All through the book he gets lucky breaks, make guesses with no logic behind them but always turn out right… really, the one bit of actual detective work he does involves a bit of science that’s absolutely ridiculous.The main character just seems like a bit of an unlikeable dick.
INTENSE & THRILLING. My heart is still palpitating. Hayes' first crime narrative takes us through a labyrinth of deception, espionage and bioterrorism through various countries, shocking cultures and disturbing deaths. Jack Pilgrim is not your average CIA. I Am Pilgrim is not your average crime novel. It had me teetering on the edge of my chair chewing my nails down to the cuticle. Amazing 5 ☆ must read.
For me, as a book lover, blogger and a person who just wants to send your way the very best stories I find out there, this says more than any in depth critique of “I am Pilgrim” could achieve.
Now of course, there is nothing wrong with a book of any size as long as you ENJOY it but I have always been a lover of stories that perhaps give you that little bit more.
If you want an in depth plot analysis you will need to look elsewhere – it won’t be hard, this book has touched many – I will end by saying that this is a must read for anyone who simply loves books.
This book is remarkable. The last section is so tense I am exhausted just from reading it! Who is Pilgrim? I have just read over 900 pages (in the paperback version) and I still do not really know. Nevertheless he is brilliant at what he does and he makes a fascinating and very appealing main character. The story is excellent, the pacing and the tension are brilliant and at no time does it ever seem like a long book! If you enjoy a good thriller then read this. It's not good, it is superb!
I just finished. OMG! That was so good! I cannot wait for the sequel. I hope it lives up to it's predecessor. If you like books that keep you guessing and turning the pages this is for you. As other people who read this have written, some things were a bit implausible but it is fiction after all...although in the world we live in today it is also very scary. I imagine this scenario could become reality.
And he'll need to be when he goes up against an Arab zealot dubbed Saracen, a very cunning terrorist.As the book shifts back and forth between Saracen's story and Pilgrim's story we find out that Saracen grew up in an educated, devout Muslim family in Saudi Arabia.
The Arab zealot has a bit of bad luck, however, and his potential weapon comes to the attention of the CIA, which immediately recruits Pilgrim out of retirement to stop the apocalypse.Pilgrim soon learns that Saracen has a contact in Bogrum, Turkey.
Or good plotting!)Saracen's biological weapon is perfected and sent on its way to America while Pilgrim races around Eastern Europe and the Middle East, collecting clues about the Arab's real identity and history.
Wow, wow, and wow!
I had to wait a little while to write this review just to let the full force of it hit me.
I honestly have not read a novel as well written and thrillingly addictive since Girl With the Dragon Tattoo.
Thrillers are a genre I've not had much success with...
they tend to be too predicable and cliche'.
This one, however, met and exceeded all of my expectations.
I was kept, literally, 'sitting on the edge of my seat' the entire 700 pages.
I would give this an easy 10 stars if I could...
A true gem to ANY reader.
They say the devil is in the details, and no truer words have ever been spoken.  This is one dense novel packed to the very brim with murder, treachery, and intrigue.  A ghost, a cleanskin, a pathfinder.  It is a fine line that divides religious devotion and fanatical zealotry.  Follow the Pilgrim as he progresses in his fevered search for the Seracen.  Time is running out.
A baffling murder scene in a run-down New York hostel brings together our hero, Pilgrim, and the NYPD copper, Ben Bradley, who eventually becomes Pilgrim’s side-kick and one of the most likeable characters of the book.
There is a lot of backstory to get through before we can really get to grips with the main point of the book which, essentially, is a dual played out in a race against time, a clash of the Titans with not a moment to spare, a fight to the death between the two single strongest warriors of our age.
Astonishing. 700 pages of brilliance. A spy thriller that is so much more than that. It takes us, the lead characters and the author on a series of journeys, populated by 'real' people, obsessed by their own lives, living their own experiences,influenced or merely observed by our leads. It's a twisty path, covering so many countries, sometimes leading to tears, admiration, horror or to tremendous shocks and revelations. So many stories in one. This is indeed a storytelling pilgrimage. Every page had me riveted. I am so sorry to have finished it!
But what happens when someone uses Pilgrim’s book as a manual for committing the perfect crime?I received a free copy from Simon & Schuster in exchange for an honest review.The scope of Terry Hayes’ I Am Pilgrim is much larger than I initially expected.
The character development is top-notch and when both adversaries finally do meet, the groundwork has been laid perfectly to support such a high stakes battle.Without giving anything away, make sure you keep an eye on your pulse as the novel draws to a close.
But despite my best efforts to treat it like junk food, I couldn't turn off my critical thinking.
The book has real POV oddities -- sometimes we're in the main character's head, and sometimes we are in 3rd person omniscient.
I think what really tipped it for me was just how incredibly flat any female character was.
The only positive female characters are barely mentioned assassins, loyal wives, or stock women created for the purpose of highlighting Islamic culture's sexism.
Other than that, any women are *constantly* putting their "best assets" (Hayes's words) on display for Pilgram's benefit.
Soon, I was yawning.Then Islamophobia started in right earnest, as the "hero" watched the twin towers coming down.
Every summer, Saudis and other rich Arabs would pay a huge premium for rooms at the front so that they could watch women sunbathing topless on the grass.Well, we all know the lecherous Arab, panting after white women...The driver thought I was crazy - but then his religion thinks stoning a woman to death for adultery is reasonable, so I figured we were about even.The Muslim, crazy by definition.---------------------------Well, ladies and gentlemen, I have had it.
This is one of those books that I passed in the book shop on numerous occasions without even picking up up because the cover didn't appeal to me and it just looked like way too many pages for my liking.
There was times I must admit I found some of the scenes tough going and others a bit far fetched but it was a thriller that certainly kept me engrossed and turning the pages way into the night.
For readers who enjoy a good thriller and are not not put off by torture scenes then this is well worth your time.
I am happy to say (after 700 pages?!?) that the book is, indeed, better than your run of the mill thriller both in terms of the plot itself as well as Hayes' writing style.I won't go into the plot, as I don't want to spoil it for anyone, but the story really pulls you in very quickly.
I often find my problem with thrillers to be that I cannot connect to the main character at all, not just because they are usually male and superhuman, but also because they are written in third person.
There is no nuance just a repeated chapter ending that makes us want to turn the page apparently - it is like a cheap comic book.My biggest irritation however was with the inconsistencies in the story and the timelines - warning: serious spoiler alerts follow:Cameron has been married to Dodge for eight months but she has been having an affair with Ingrid (Marilyn) prior to that marriage.
Her concept for the perfect crime doesn't make sense either.I won't even bother to dip into the utter absurdity of the Saracen character...who apparently breaks into the most secure Syrian facility using the eyes of another man and his body weight...a facility that apparently doesn't have any CCTV???
