https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30106.The_Swimming_Pool_Library
Swimming-Pool falls squarely within that second category.the novel is about a repulsive and useless parasite, a shallow and superficial upper-class twit obsessed solely with sex, entirely without any qualities whatsoever except, i suppose, his aristocratic lineage and his apparently smashing good looks and large endowment.
when our narrator greets his long-lost lover by ripping his pants down and burying his face in his ass, is this supposed to be palpably romantic rather than absurd and farcical?the novel wastes a golden opportunity in the story of the elderly and very gay Lord Nantwich, whose diaries the protagonist is working his way through as he considers writing a bio of the lord's life.
A wonderful romp around London-town, arguably the gayest city in all of Europe!
The novel is exquisite, very smartly titled (Swimming-pool implies the superficial aspect of the gay scene, Library implies all that is intelligent and witty: the book is a merger of these both).
This is a novel of paramount importance: it is a historical document which embodies the livid spirit of the gay scene back in the 1980's, before AIDS, before pretty much stuff like this gave homosexuals a bad rap.
It is one-of-a-kind, written eloquently, written with a focus on that elusive antihero: the gay leading man.
It can delicately register so many things--shades of emotion, nuances of intellection, as well as symphonies of physical movement, as in the suburban boxing tournament--but never sounds fussy or over-elaborate; very solid and quick, a model for anyone.
I wasn't sure if the rather stark contrast between the rich emotion of Lord Nantwich's old diaries and the senile, muddled form he took during the present-day of the narration was intentional or not.
Nantwich never caught on with me, he seemed so blurry and not-there; but as I said, maybe that was the point, Hollinghurst wishing to remind us that complex submerged past lives lie beneath the vague blandness of manner exhibited by the elderly.
at first appearance it's a breezy but self obsessed commentary by flirtatious man about town, William Beckwith; young, moneyed, unscrupulous, charming and gay.
The prose is written in such a way that it took me about 50 pages (until the mention of Bucks Fizz - the pop group not the drink), to work out that this book is set in the 1980's.
William is approached by Lord Nantwich, a man whose life he had previously saved while loitering in a public lavatory, to write his biography and through the research and reading Nantwich's diaries he uncovers elements of a sad and unpleasant past, previously hidden to him.I've given this book to two gay friends to read.
This book is extremely good written. Very erotic and very gay-ish. It could have had 50 pages less or 100 pages more, it wouldn't have had any influence on the storyline.(What a storyline?!)It doesn't have a typical beginning, culminating and ending.Here the journey itself is a destination. It is for sure a book I'd like to re-read some day and invest more time in it.
À semelhança de A Linha da Beleza, não se trata de um romance para o qual antevemos à partida um final bombástico, na verdade, obriga o leitor a adquirir um ritmo mais lento, pelos capítulos demasiado longos e demora dos acontecimentos.
William não é um personagem interessante, com excepção dos engates e conquistas recorrentes, pouco há a dizer sobre ele.
Já a história de vida de Lord Nantwich, que ficamos a conhecer quando este entrega a Will os seus diários para que escreva a sua biografia, pareceu-me muito mais rica e fez valer a pena a leitura.
There were a lot of good things about this book, and his descriptions of the club where he swims were so lovely and evocative that I actually looked into joining the Y, thinking that getting into lap swimming might be the secret to surviving a miserable winter.
I wasn't interested in his thoughts or what happened to him, which is usually a deal breaker for loving a novel.Maybe if I'd stuck with this longer, I would've developed feelings beyond bored irritation.
No, of course not: a lot of my favorite books are about idle rich people.
It needs to be remembered that Will is elitist, rich, unabashedly egotistical and fairly narcissistic, and, as is noted by a character at one of the clubs (if only I had the book with me right now!), it is quite in vogue for the white men in London to score a young West Indian or African man.
The reason I rated this book a 4/5, though, is that I'm fairly unsure of whether or not every reader will approach the text with a critical eye towards is very prominent--but curiously latent--approach to race and class, which I discussed earlier.
He is mischievous, cheeky and arch, while at the same time having a coy vulnerability.Let's listen in on the secret thoughts of his narrator, William Beckwith, as he goes back to the hotel of his latest pick-up, an athletic young boy called Phil:I was so lucky in general, so blessed, that my pick-ups were virtually instantaneous: the man I fancied took in my body, my cock, my blue eyes at a glance.
But his ironies would be empty without the delicious observational details – I very much wanted to fuck his big, muscly bum – and several times dropped behind a step or two to see it working as he walked which make listening or reading to him such a joy.Excellent English style is not just about vocabulary, word order and syntax.
As a result, the experience of reading The Swimming Pool Library is a bit like flicking through somebody else's Grindr account - vicariously interesting for about five minutes, quickly becoming repetitive and not a little depressing.In contrast to the excellent Line of Beauty, which takes place at the height of the AIDS epidemic, The Swimming Pool Library is set in the early 1980s at which time it was apparently still possible to have daily unprotected sex with strangers with no adverse physical health effects other than the occasional beating by right-wing skinheads.
In fairness to the author, the book's title strongly suggests that this is supposed to be a not entirely flattering portrayal of the superficiality of a certain type of urban, physical beauty-obsessed gay scene.
I read this book because it's on a lot of "Best Gay Novel" lists.
At first I thought it made the lists because there's a ton of sex in it.
Maybe that's part of it.I ended up feeling like Will Beckwith was a very thought-provoking character.
Hollinghurst did an amazing job of empowering the reader to decide how to feel about his protagonist.
You can almost always tell exactly how the author wants you to feel about the main character.
You really have to trust the reader.
There was one scene that didn't work for me, but I still thought it was brilliant.
I wasn't attached to any of the characters but the story itself held my attention very closely.
Hollinghurst covers a plethora of themes such as homophobia, while comparing homosexuality before and after the gay liberation movement.
Will, the main character, is filthy rich and a hopeless whore.
A big part of this book covers a diary that Will is reading and those events are juxtaposed with events that are happening to Will and his friends.
Fascinating the way Hollinghurst put this book together and well worth the read for it's story and themes but also for Hollinghurst's rich, exhaustive writing style.
Ένα μυθιστόρημα στη κατηγορία της gay λογοτεχνίας. Ο συγγραφέας έχει το ταλέντο να διηγείται μαύρες αλήθειες μέσα από ένα ροζ σύννεφο. Όλο το βιβλίο διαπνέεται από μια λεπτή ειρωνεία και αντιμετωπίζει το πρωταγωνιστή του με συγκατάβαση αλλά και αγάπη. Μας δίνει μια inside ματιά της upper class gay κοινότητας του Λονδίνου στις αρχές της δεκαετίας του '80 πριν την επέλαση του aids. Η σύγκριση των δύο εποχών που υπάρχη στο βιβλίο μας δείχνει ότι όλα τριγύρω αλλάζουνε και όλα τα ίδια μένουν. Α! και η εκδίκηση είναι ένα πιάτο που τρώγεται κρύο εώς παγωμένο σε αυτή τη περίπτωση.
Beautifully written.
Reams and reams of pretty graphic sex but it works because it's not floridly described and because it's crucial to the theme - the tension between the hedonistic life - cruising, endless meaningless shags, generally not working (our hero Will has come into lots of money), and commitment to work, ideals, friends.Interesting idea that decriminalising gay activity while obviously very important, took away some of the frisson and excitement from the game of seduction (this coming from a character who spends time in prison for soliciting).
Does this explain why the story was a little odd at times?The last chapters brought us to a rather strange place: a "secret" interesting enough to shock a very selfish and generally disinterested young man but not damaging enough for anyone to work very hard to keep and, crucially, not so interesting that any of the young man's friends or family had sought to tell him.
That's a funny sort of secret, isn't it?I'd love to know if the film at the end really exists.
Probably this is most of the reason it annoyed me.Towards the end I had the impression that Hollinghurst was showing off a dénoument that he was ever so proud of - "What an achievement for a first-time author!" "Didn't see that one coming, didja?" Well, no, I didn't see it coming, actually - I suppose maybe it was clever; a web of connections and intrigue and immorality had been constructed through the whole book, so subtly that I didn't notice it happening, only to be drawn tight at the very last minute.
However, this left me feeling not impressed by the author's skill, but confused.
Certainly one of the best representations of gay people I have ever read in literature and the first time I saw sex depicted so realistically and in full detail.
It has aged extremely well considering the fact it was published almost 30 years ago and it has rightfully earned its title as a queer classic.
I knocked off a star because there were moments where I found some of the characters too one dimensional and cartoonish (certainly a Dickensian inspiration there).
This is not necessarily a bad thing (Dickens does it all the time) but I wish sometimes some situations would have been handled differently.
ABANDONO
This has been highly praised as being one of the best British books about gay life.Not knowing a hell of a lot about gay life or the gay community (in Britain or anywhere else) or British fiction, I feel this is something I can't really comment on.
But as someone outside of this community and - I feel it's safe to say - that type of life (I don't have that much sex or that much money (and I'm not as sociable)), it was a great look into what goes on in a world I don't frequent; how things work and the different dynamics.
We're very different in character and personality, and that also lessens my enjoyment of a book.
His turn of phrase and excellent use of language is stellar.The story is interestingly told through the eyes of a thirtyish gay man in the prime of his life simply lounging, working out, and having sexual encounters of the various kind.
The plot dupes you into regarding the plot as non-existent and that the book will tell the typical tale of a lounger, but the author starts dropping hints to an underlying secret.I love William's gutsy sexual encounters - even more thrilling than the sex for William seems to be the unknown and the possibility of the situation deteriorating.
This book really absorbed me. How do I write this? Hollinghurst has a way of getting into the subtleties of perception - how the physical environment and the things people say, and the unconscious social messaging that is all around us combine..."He had that look of insincere good behaviour that people have when they are working on their own public relations. As I came in the coppery clack of the shop-bell had all heads turning."Also, it is full of sex, very graphic sex. A great read.
I read up until he tries picking up the sixteen year old hustler and because the young man asks him for money, Will dreams of pissing on him or violently taking him by force etc etc.
Look, I'm no prude.
I've read graphic books and loved them.
But this one bores me to death.
There's no dept.
The book would have been more fun if in the end we find out that Will is actually in a padded room in a mental institution and that all the while he's been reading his own past as a racist colonialist rich prick.
4-4.5 stars. Loved it!
This is the longest its taken me to read a book in years.
al.) luxuriated in nigh-on fetishistic descriptions of black male anatomy and debates on underage ambiguity, and none of that was going to fly.But enough about the things that prevented me from reading.
I will go on loving Alan Hollinghurst, but I will never read The Swimming-Pool Library on the bus.The Line of Beauty, The Stranger's Child, and this book all feature protagonists who should be working on a book, and aren't.
These are not the most restful novels a writer could be reading, but they are among the best.
Described by some as an elegy to the pre AIDS homosexual world, this was a tale without a single likeable character, with no human bases I could touch down with whatsoever.
Perhaps it's because there isn't a single woman in this book.
Perhaps it's because the main character is one of those awful dying breeds of monied posh sorts who can do nothing with their lives and still live them quite handsomely.
The glow of so much money, and so little done with it in a time of real social discontent is sickening.
It's a very strong word, but I think I actually hated this book.
The trouble was that, as attempts, they were half-successful: something in me was pained and removed; but something else, subliterate, responded to the book's bald graffiti"to me, this sealed the deal on such an eloquent way an otherwise, seemingly trashy novel becomes a timeless work; and in itself, I believe, is something that will be linked to by future novelists I will come back to this again, as I'm sure I will pick up more of the subtle ironies I missed this first time around
A semi-interesting story in parts, but ultimately it boils down to the vanity and shallow life of a gay man, William Beckwith, living in 1980s Britain.
This is all on the background of a bizarre landscape where seemingly every man William meets is gay and impulsively interested in sex.Hollinghursts best novel, The Line of Beauty, features a similary empty protagonist but features such a strong plot and a more interesting character progression.
Sadly I have a strong suspicion that elements of this book may be semi-autobiographical, and so it makes me think less of Hollinghurst.Ultimately it's an average book, which follows the unsavoury and oversexed adventures of a very shallow gay man in 1980s london.
In a hilarious, though slightly improbable, conversation between the narrator and his six-year-old nephew, the latter, who apparently has been told that Uncle Will is homosexual without really understanding it, is looking at a photo album and asking questions, concluding "I mean, almost everyone is homosexual, aren't they?
Boys, I mean." The reply "I sometimes think so" sums up the spirit of this book in which continuous cruising and brief but torrid affairs are literally the sum total of the narrator's existence (abetted by his independent wealth).
Saw this mentioned numerous times on a famous-gay-people-pick-their-favorite-books blog post a few weeks ago.
He spends much of the book falling fast into immature relationships and cheating on those boys at the same time.
- he's shocked and appalled to learn that those boys are cheating on him too.
I don't know what to say about that except that it is so completely dated.So if you'd like to peek into what gay life in Britian may have been like in the uber-decadent, pre-AIDS late 70s and early 80s, rehashing every negative stereotype and worst possible behavior scenario in the process, this is the book for you.
But Hollinghurst's style is wonderful, and his story of pre-AIDS London and the history of repression and entrapment in England is fantastic.
I'm a little annoyed by all of the class issues between the narrator, his lovers, and the lord, but I guess that is difficult to avoid in British literature.
It really got me fired up about Ronald Firbank, but since I ordered a book of his stories, I haven't been in the mood, instead turning to Hemingway, who is probably the antithesis of Firbank in style and content.This is also the last of Hollinghurst's books that I had to read, and I cannot wait for the next one to come out.
