https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8531.Proof
As I think about all of his books (yes, this review covers all of his books, and yes I've read them all) I think about a moral ethical hero, steeped in intelligence and goodness embroiled in evil machinations within British horse racing society - either directly or indirectly.
The heroes aren't always horse jockies, they can be film producers, or involve heroes engaged in peripheral professions that somehow always touch the horse racing world.But more than that, Francis's heroes are rational human beings.
The hero's thoughts reveal a vulnerability that is touching, while his actions are always based on doing the right thing to achieve justice.
This gives the reader a true range of behaviors.
In the case of Proof, Frances adds an additional element to his protagonist, Tony Beach.
Although Beach lives in the world of horses and horse racing and is seen to be an expert in the field, his profession is as the owner of a liquor store and wine shop.
He lives on the periphery of horses and in the world of liquor.
He is the calm in the eye of the storm and gives readers a feeling of being solid and grounded while they fear for the evil doers around him.
As with many Francis books, the title of Proof has multiple meanings.
In Proof, Francis gives us a look at the wine and spirit industry from the viewpoint of a liquor merchant who has recently become a widower.
At the beginning of the book the merchant is terribly depressed from the loss of his wife, and also weighed down by a conviction that he has failed his family because he has never been conspicuously brave or successful as his father and grandfather were before him.
Although the details of the liquor industry got a bit tedious for me once or twice, this is definitely another worthy entry in the Francis repertoire.
I always enjoy reading a good Dick Francis novel.
There was the investigation of what happened at the party but there is a bigger investigation going on.
He'd been talking to Tony, which is how he got involved.
The police looked to Tony as an expert to help locate the watered alcohol.
What happens next is standard Dick Francis hold-on-for-the-ride stuff.I really enjoyed this one.
I'd been looking at Goodreads lists of Dick Francis books and this one was right at the top of the votes.
I was reading it on edge wondering what was going to happen and would he get out.
A rattling good read--or listen, in my case.
I find this a common element in so many novels and plays written for the upper middle class of the UK: pleasant young adult with no drive to do much of anything discovers a talent s/he didn't know s/he had that not only permits them to earn the daily crust, but spreads it thickly with butter and even the occasional dollop of jam.
Like a good wine, cool on the tongue, light on the palate, it cheers and satisfies.I must have read this back when it first came out, but remembered nothing beyond a phrase here and there.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Dick Francis's thriller dramatised in eight parts by Ernest Dudley.Episode 1 of 8The champagne is flowing at a party thrown by racehorse trainer Jack Haythorne, when tragedy strikes.
Wine merchant Tony Beach is in the thick of it...Episode 5 of 8Mystery for Tony and Flora - is her son back from Australia?
Stars Nigel Havers as Tony Beach, George Parsons as Gerard, Jennifer Piercey as Flora, Tim Reynolds as Fulham, Pauline Letts as Mrs Fulham, Alan Dudley as Jack, Andrew Branch as Jimmy, Stephen Hattersley as Sgt. Ridger and Manning Wilson as Chief Sup. Wilson.Director: Matthew WaltersFirst broadcast on BBC Radio 4 in 1987.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b007m9f7
This was an excellent production by BBC Radio 4 with a full cast dramatization.Wine merchant Tony Beech is catering an upmarket party when a runaway horse float crashes into the marquee killing several people.
There is an intoxicating blend of deception, intrigue, and murder in this book.
It would have rated a full star higher except that there was one loose end that was not tied up to my satisfaction - and it's still annoying me!But that aside, it is still a good enjoyable example of Dick Francis' skills as a writer in the racing world.
Next to Break In, this may be my favorite Dick Francis story. The storyline is intriguing, enthralling and heartbreaking. Anything I know about scotch, I learned from Dick Francis. Twenty years after reading Proof, I bought a bottle of Laphroaig for my boss based simply on this book. A definite winner!
Dodgy wine, stolen whiskey, dead sheiks, expensive horses. Not really my bag, but Francis has constructed a neat little mystery here. Romped along nicely enough.
There was potential for Tony and the private detective Gerard to be unusual or have an interesting relationship, but that wasn’t done.
This is a story about a good guy investigating, being in danger, eventually figuring out the mystery, and catching the bad guys.
A couple of times Tony discovered something and tried to call the cops or Gerard, but they weren’t there, so he had to wait before he could pass on information - hmmm more suspense.
I’ve been spoiled by current mystery suspense authors such as Michael Connelly, John Grisham, Stieg Larsson, and others.
Book DescriptionYoung wine merchant Tony Beach's exposure of a liquor scam sparks a brutal murder and forces the corruption in the liquor industry to spread into the realm of thoroughbred horse racing.My Review:This was my first Dick Francis book.
I thought Francis' writing style was easy to read.
My only complaint is that Dick Francis left a few things hanging in regards to the incident in the beginning of the book.
I look forward to reading another of his books and I would recommend this book to those who love cozy mysteries about horse racing and making and distributing alcohol.
This was the second book I read by Dick Francis, and I quickly became a solid fan of this writer.
(Reflex was the first of his I read).
They are usually an unexceptional, average person, with possibly one skill that sets them apart from the other characters, and with this skill or talent, they do something heroic.
Francis' books leave you feeling good, and give you hope that we can do the right thing, do something to help others, even if we are just an "average" person.
Read by Nigel Havers. The Sheikh was rattled then rolled - I know, I have a terrible sense of humour. Classic Francis, which is always acceptable.At the annual party celebrating the success of the racing season, everything is running well to form until a runaway horsebox ploughs into the marquee, causing terrible death and destruction. A witness to the tragedy, wine merchant Tony Beach presumes it is just one of those awful accidents.But as he gets involved in the investigation and begins to make connections, events take a more sinister turn...First broadcast on BBC Radio 7 in 2004.

In the opening scene, when Tony works to rescue people at the scene of a horrible accident, the reader starts to see that his self-assessment as a coward isn’t really accurate, but it takes Tony much longer to recognize this.The accident draws Tony into a mystery surrounding stolen tankers of booze, and as often in Francis there is lots of great background stuff on this (I finally know what “malt” is in malt whiskey).
Both Tony and Gerard McGregor, the private investigator he works with, are interesting characters, and the mystery is a good one.
He’s just an average guy who sells wine, how and why he becomes so important to the police and others, and even a victim of crime himself, is a mystery to me.
The story was well written, and sucked me in enough to where I wanted to know what happened, but since I started reading this I purchased two other novels from the author (as I was intrigued at first), and to be fair, I’m going to give this guy another chance.
I can't say anything bad about this book.
It had all the qualities for a good mystery...
deception, intrigue, and murder.
I guess the thing I had the most problem with was the combination of the liquor, horse racing, and the murder at the beginning of the book.
The author did a commendable job of almost tying all the loose ends up and offering some excitement at the end that the book had mostly lacked throughout.
If you like mysteries a little on the cozy side...you should really like this book.
I enjoyed rereading this Dick Francis thriller about a man who owns and runs a liquor store and who becomes involved in a criminal investigation largely due to his wine (and whiskey) tasting skills. As always, there’s also a horsey element to the story.
One of my favorites by Dick Francis. They all take place somehow in the horse racing world, but this one is indirectly. Learned a lot about wine too. Read this a looooooong time ago. May have to revisit. Thank you to my dad who turned me onto the author lo, these many years ago.
My edition of this book proudly proclaims,"The best of his bestsellers,it's a corker." It begins dramatically enough,after that it loses steam.Not bad,but in comparison with many of his other books,it doesn't stand out for me.
It had been years since I’d read a Dick Francis mystery. I listened to this one on Audible on recommendation from my mom and loved it! All his main characters go through some sort of personal growth in his books, and this one is no exception. I’m not even a wine person, but I found what I learned about wine very interesting. I especially loved how kind the main character is.
Over the next couple of weeks, Tony becomes involved in two investigations.
There was the investigation of what happened at the party but there is a bigger investigation going on.
He'd been talking to Tony, which is how he got involved.
The police looked to Tony as an expert to help locate the watered alcohol.
What happens next is standard Dick Francis hold-on-for-the-ride stuff.
The story pulls you in and introduces a number of characters and then the questions.
I was reading it on edge wondering what was going to happen and would he get out.
I love this above average, but not spectacular, mystery more than I can say.
However, what puts it over the top, is that underneath the clever plot, the skilled narrative and easy prose style, lies the bedrock of an age-old question of "what is courage?" The main character's (Tony Beach,) father and grandfather were both highly decorated military men with formidable reputations for bravery under enemy fire.
It is on the last page that courage, honor and love come together in a powerful way which prove (Proof?) that heroics are not just played out on the battlefield.
This was my favorite of all the Dick Francis books.
It contains all of the best elements of his works: first, of corse, a well crafted mystery.
Then there is a main character already going through changes in his life who gets caught up in the mystery.
Then there is the painstaking research Francis did into an unusual occupation, which is a hallmark of some of his later works.
(The first books were all about jockeys or horsetrainers.) I later started at the beginning and read all of his books, but if I were going to recommend just one, this would be it.
Another great everyman mystery by my best bud, Dick Francis. This time, featuring wine. Meet Tony Beach. Wine merchant by trade. Young widower, as is the case in so many of his books. Brave, resourceful, but still just a regular joe. This is why I love these books.I really hoped for a new career by the end of the book, but the ending made sense to me. Anyway, another good one by Francis. 3.5 stars.
I love Dick Francis' books. (I do love the British mystery done right.) This story not only has some of the horse set but gives an education on the business side of wine. The MC is smart, lonely, quiet and braver than he thinks. Typical Dick Francis hero. Loved the story. Dick Francis could write. Very enjoyable.
Wine merchant, Tony Beach, is delivering wine to a party of racing enthusiasts when a horse trailer breaks loose and kills several people in the party tent.
That then leads to him being asked to assist private detective Gerard McGregor in finding out who is responsible for a series of whiskey bottling trucks being hijacked.I've never been much of a Dick Francis fan because I just don't have any interest in horses and that's normally what he writes about.
I do love wine and this book is filled with interesting tidbits about wine, as well as Scotch whiskey.
I may have to reconsider Dick Francis books, even the ones that deal with horses.
I have only read a few of Dick Francis’ books, and I greatly enjoyed “Proof,” one of his earlier ones.
I greatly enjoyed this book and its main character.First published in 1984, "Proof" is one of the earlier novels by Francis.
His protagonist, Tony Beach, knows the world of horses and horse racing; however, his real love is wine.
He also caters alcohol/ drinks for many parties.
It is a well-crafted mystery, especially to those who enjoy a glass of wine now and then.
I looked at Goodreads’ ratings of Dick Francis’ books, and “Proof” was right at the top.
Proof by Dick Francis was the first mystery I have read since my childhood when I used to read The Hardy Boys.
But I think this might be the last mystery I read in a while.Favorite Quote (I had two favorite quotes):"-As a detective, what pleases me is proof.-So what's proof?-If you mix a liquid with gunpowder and ignite it and it burns with a steady blue flame.
-Proof of what?-Proof that the liquid is 50% alcohol.
That's how they proved the liquid was alcohol three centuries ago when they first pit a tax on distilled spirits.
My first ever Dick Francis book and although I knew the name, I had no preconceptions of what I'd read.
Even the action when it happened seemed to be tainted with a 'proper English stiff upper lip' and an almost effeminate no-hero quality here.
However, the action continues and nothing is lost by not having a heavy macho hero or gratuitous blood-fest.
This is horror in places, crime in other and plenty of suspense and thrills for a very 'everyday male' lead.Francis books have an intimacy of character, a fearful growing menace that we can't look away from and ultimately satisfying endings where many loose ends are rolled up.
