https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/386187.Midnight_in_the_Garden_of_Good_and_Evil
and the book's central figure - the maybe-a-murderer - felt like he was an iteration of the film JFK's Clay Shaw, as played in an unusually fancy style by Tommy Lee Jones.
who knows, maybe i just automatically hate the rich & parasitic.
Berendt writes about a whole gallery of characters, all characterized briefly but adroitly, and eventually i realized i was reading a classier version of a tourist-eye's view of Southern grotesques, a drive-by tour of weirdos.
who knows, maybe i just automatically empathize with the weirdos and am annoyed by the normals.
Note, February 2014: I was just rereading this review, and FUNNY STORY, I moved to a small town.
Not so much a big city person as I had originally thought...Original review, circa 2007: I love this book to the point where I don't even really know what to say about it, because nothing I can say about it will be good enough to explain just how incredible this book really is.After reading this book, I had to restrain myself from booking a flight to Savannah.
I am a city person through and through, but this book made me want to move to a small town.
Berendt skillfully interweaves a hugely entertaining first-person account of life in this isolated remnant of the Old South with the unpredictable twists and turns of a landmark murder case.It is a spellbinding story peopled by a gallery of remarkable characters: the well-bred society ladies of the Married Woman's Card Club; the turbulent young redneck gigolo; the hapless recluse who owns a bottle of poison so powerful it could kill every man, woman, and child in Savannah; the aging and profane Southern belle who is the "soul of pampered self-absorption"; the uproariously funny black drag queen; the acerbic and arrogant antiques dealer; the sweet-talking, piano-playing con artist; young blacks dancing the minuet at the black debutante ball; and Minerva, the voodoo priestess who works her magic in the graveyard at midnight.
One of the best 'true crime' book I have ever read.
I actually had to keep reminding myself that it was, in fact, a true crime book.
So often in true crime books the characters are a little flat.
Berendt was really able to make them come to life.
His writing made the whole city come to life.
His ability to infiltrate the seemly exclusive Savannah society and do such an awesome character study was amazing.
The focus was not so much on the crime but rather the mesh of characters are interwoven into the plot (if I can call it that).
Extraordinary story and characters, slow read, some parts for me were a bit hard to get through, that's why four stars and not five. A classic though. Loved it. Now I want to go to Savannah too....Another early review of mine coming up... how times flies.Oh my, I loved this book!
There was a lot of mood, of which I'm a big fan.
That's not to say you don't spend a lot of time with them, or find out anything about them, it's just that you don't really give a damn.
The book is written by a magazine journalist who ends up living on and off in Savanah, GA for eight years to investigate and chronicle a murder and it's trials.
This book is more or less one long magazine article, detailng the events, and lives, but never really giving you sympathy for any of the characters.
There was a lot of hype around this book a few years back, but in this case I think it is actually deserved.
For one, Berendt is a skilled writer who understands how to tease a compelling story out of the material he’s working with.
And, oh, what material!
Whether he’s discussing the quirky, old-South rituals of the Married Women’s Card Club or the disturbed local genius who may or may not be plotting to poison the town’s water supply, Berendt kept me so engaged I relished every moment.
If you like the book, however, you may want to watch it just to see the notorious drag queen play herself.
The writing was great, the story was led into in an interesting way, but the trial was trivial and so were many characters that were introduced in the first half of the book. But, I liked reading about them anyway and, while the book came together well in the end, the whole thing wasn’t cohesive. That said, I feel like I should have more good things to say about a book I enjoyed reading so much.
Ova knjiga je jedan od meni najdražih prevoda, i žao mi je što film nije pomogao knjizi... Naime, knjiga obiluje živopisnim likovima, a Klint Istvud je u svom filmu samo načeo te likove, a nijednog nije u potpunosti prikazao... Ono što je posebno interesantno u vezi s ovom knjigom jeste to da je ona potpuno promenila život učmale Savane u Džordžiji... Gradić koji ne voli promene, koji ne voli savremene tekovine, odjednom se našao pod najezdom turista koji su se tu sjatili posle čitanja ove knjige... Bila je veliki hit krajem prošlog veka... :)
. .) There's probably not much I can say about this book that hasn't already been said, but that won't stop me.
I thought that the entire book would be about the murder trial of Jim Williams, the prominent Savannah antiques dealer accused of murdering Danny Hansford (with whom it was rumored he was having a sexual relationship).
And, while I knew he was probably a scoundrel, I also liked Jim Williams, who insisted on continuing to live in Savannah because "it pisses off all the right people." There was a lot of discussion at book club as to whether this should be classified as fiction or non-fiction.
While I enjoyed the ensuing movie very much, I like the book even more because it can take more time doing its job -- basically following a very bemused New York reporter (Berendt) around in search of answers to a controversial murder, as he crosses paths with Uga the "Damn Good Dog," meets Luther the "fly man," gets special permission to visit the Married Women's Card Club, learns about the hustler who was "the good time not yet had by all," dabbles in hoodoo, and of course makes the acquaintance of Lady Chablis, who had to tape her "Thing" down before she appeared in public.
Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil: A Savannah Story by John Berendt is a weird story about even weirder people!
I would be gone from that town soooo fast.
What creepy people!
With the strange people you knew the murder mystery would be just as creepy, but not good.
Easy to figure out that Jim and Danny were lovers right away.
Why hide it in this town?
These are the sane people!
I wasn't impressed with the writing, the plot, or the mystery.
I found this one a struggle. Several times I stopped and looked the title up again on Goodreads to make sure it really is non fiction. Surely all those weird characters could not really have existed in one place. Surely there must have been a huge amount of artistic licence going on. The court cases themselves rang true but ended up not being a major part of the book. Two stars because the author writes well. My struggle to read it was based purely on disbelief and not at all on the quality of the book. Disappointing.
Además, el aumento de los visitantes de la ciudad de Savannah (Georgia) fue notable desde ese momento, y no es para menos: en la primera parte de la obra tenemos una crónica social brillante de esa pintoresca ciudad sureña, atractiva por su historia, su arquitectura y sus habitantes, plagada de cotilleos, de pequeñas historias algo inconexas pero interesantes sin duda.
Me ha costado un poco introducirme en ella al lado de los personajes, brillantemente presentados y descritos, por los que me he interesado y he buscado información, pero a los que no he visto cobrar vida (la mejor, sin duda, Lady Chablis, quien se interpretó a sí misma en la película).
The perfect mix of character study and courtroom drama, Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil paints a fascinating picture of Savannah, Georgia.
It's a moody, atmospheric novel that draws you in with its exquisite descriptions and eccentric cast.
There are aristocratic snobs and drag queens, punk rock teens and possibly murderous millionaires.
It all sounds a bit too good to be true--based on a series of real events from the 1980's-- and maybe it is.
Fans of the podcast Serial might enjoy this one for it's court aspect, with the added bonus of some zany and memorable characters.
3.5 stars rounded up to 4B is for BerendtRead a book with antonyms in the titleSo I just realized that I totally forgot to review this one.....idiot moment #85749 For me, Savannah's resistance to change was its saving grace. The city looked inward, sealed of from the noises and distractions of the world at large. It grew inward, too, and in such a way that its people flourished like hothouse plants tended by an indulgent gardner. The ordinary became extraordinary. Eccentrics thrived. Every nuanc
Each idiosyncratic and vivid identity depicted within these pages seems like something out of a novel, so I loved loved loved that they all are, in fact, real, living, breathing human beings who lived in Savannah when this book was written.From an eccentric gay antique dealer who may or may not have murdered his young, redneck, playboy lover in cold blood to a beautiful trash-talking drag queen (my personal favorite of the bunch) to a mysterious and slightly loony voodoo priestess to a penniless womanizing philanderer, these characters were all extremely memorable and were my favorite part of this book.
We are going South, Deep South … and here we like to keep them things as they always were, when our fathers fathers fathers build Savannah. After all this are the 80-ties and we may have heard of the outside world, but were not gonna go there!Yearh, there may be an alarmingly high murder rate, but its nothing to do with us decent people, we have our country clubs, our yacht clubs and our good ol money in the bank. So, getting into the social life of Savannah is no easy job. Either you are ol mon
Friends and foes alike are now witnessing the months up to the trial which will determine if Jim Williams is a cold-blooded murderer or an innocent man, only guilty of defending his life, and even the social interest dwindle some in Savannah, the readers are following the next 8 years with trial and retrials.
John Berendt chronicles Jim William´s life over the span of 8 years, but not only that.We are also given a comprehensive guided tour of Savannah, it´s history, architecture, demographics, sports and a lot of celebrity gossip.
They do not though, if you take a guided tour of Savannah today, Jim Williams – and John Berendt are not mentioned, only Mercer House.
If Mercer House was not quite the biggest private house in Savannah, it was certainly the most grandly furnished.Much has been written about Berendt's many elisions and emendations of the strict truth: the way he rearranged the timeline of the murder at the center of the book to narrate it in the first person, the "degaying" of the murder victim, the changing of names and invention of composite characters.
Finally, as a wealthy gay man, Berendt's sympathies seem clearly biased towards Jim Williams, with whom he shares more than a little in common (Berendt currently lives in a mansion on the Upper West Side decked out not-too-different than Williams' house in Savannah.) How does this change his story?
Check out my review of this book (and the movie) on booktube: https://youtu.be/QB6Zto22UXg
The story is about the trial of Jim Williams, a Savannah's socialite and an international antiques dealer, crazy by the famous Faberge eggs, which was accused of the murder of Danny Handsford.
A remarkable piece of work by John Berendt and I am looking forward to read more books by this author.
The fourth and most famous statue was bought by a family in Savannah, Georgia, who named it Little Wendy and set it up at her family's plot in Bonaventure Cemetery in Savannah, Georgia."A film adaptation of Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil in 1997, directed by Clint Eastwood, where Kevin Spacey played the role of Jim Williams.
4.5 starsI was psyched to read this, and I'm so glad I wasn't disappointed! The writing is atmospheric and cinematic, and the author does such a great job capturing the voices of the various characters he encounters, with all their quirks and eccentricities. The whole book is perfectly enjoyable and fascinating, but the second half definitely feels a bit stronger than the first, simply because it becomes more focused rather than each chapter centering around a different character the author encounters.Definitely a new favorite!
I first read this book some 15 years ago, after being lent it by a friend.I now have my own copy. It is a book I go to every few years for a visit. And I must be due for another visit sometime soon.
Even after finishing the book, I still have a hard time believing that Jim Williams actually existed, that he actually shot his lover, that he actually spent eight years in and out of court trying to prove that he didn't plan to murder anyone, and that at the end of his ordeal he died suddenly in the same room where he shot the man, in the same place he was standing when the original argument occurred.
The characters are endlessly quirky and odd, the events Berendt witnesses have to be read to be believed, and the murder mystery that the book revolves around will delight any detective novel fan.
Although I enjoyed it, I think this book could have been much better.
The first half is largely a series of character studies, and the second half is essentially a true-life crime novel.
Unfortunately I grew dangerously bored with the first half, and as the mystery unfolds, I grew annoyed that many of the characters introduced in the first half really have little play or impact on the rest of the book.
The murder mystery itself is an interesting story but is very anticlimactic.
This book is chalk full of eccentric and sometimes amusing people.
In all, Savanah sounds like a lovely city.
The people mentioned were eccentric.....but not all of them were part of the crime or the investigation.
They were added purely for entertainment; they played no part in this story.The crime was glossed over, it felt.
That's as sloppy as the police work & investigation that occurred.
A true crime story where the events have been altered?!
All in all, an entertaining enough read but without depth and one shouldn't consider this non-fiction.
It's a fictionalized account of a crime.
The embodiment of "Truth is stranger than fiction". Great read.
It's less of a story and more of a brilliant, hilarious--and mostly true, as I understand it--character study of a collection of Savannah residents between roughly the mid-70's and mid-80s.
At the heart of the book lies the mystery of what really happened to Danny Hansford, a young man with a rough reputation who ends up with a bullet in his chest.Definitely one of the most unique books I've ever read, and extremely entertaining.
I'm not usually much for character studies but I enjoyed this one & I can see why it's become a classic.
John Berendt's well-known (non-)fiction work is the story of a murder. But it really isn't, it is actually more of a masterfully told story about a number of people in Savannah and the place itself. I just love this author's narrative and the first time I read the book I did it in a couple of long sittings, due to the fact that I couldn't bring myself to put it down. If you for some reason would not want to invest the time in this book, watch the great (and sadly underrated) movie! Then read the book.
In this narrative, Berendt introduces us to the place that is Savannah, as well as the characters of the time that made this such an entertaining place to live.
He builds the tension magnificently, bringing to life the society that really didn’t know what to believe as the trials were underway.
He highlights the undercurrent of tension between black and white, this is the deep south after all, and how Williams was able to move at all levels of society.It is very well written and even though it isn’t far short of 400 pages, took very little time to read.
The enchanting consistency between them is the cornucopia of eccentric characters living in the story...
and, according to the author, actually living in Savannah at the time he lived there.
Yes, it's a true story, with only a few names and dates changed.
Well, for me this makes it even more enchanting.
I'm disturbed by the possibility that the place could never live up to the richest descriptions contained in this, one of my all time favourite books.
Even more so now, that I read the final chapters lamenting the seemingly inevitable changes of modernization on the time capsule culture portrayed as Savannah.
