https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9827.King_Rat
Not only because it is based on facts from Clavell’s life who himself was a prisoner of Changi camp in Singapore and thanks to it the whole story, being still the work of fiction, gained air of realism and credibility; not only because it is a gripping, well paced reading, also because it reads as an excellent study of characters and morality in extreme situations.
But it’s also about a fear what life would be alike after Changi since no one escaped the camp unchanged, that place made them, then reshaped and destroyed, and how one can forget about atrocities prisoners were subjected to.
Сега знам защо тази книга е толкова популярна, защо е класика.Защото е драматично-иронична песен за войната, мъжеството, приятелството, смъртта и дома.
Защото в нея има всичко.
Когато Дънкън се изравни с тях, погледите им за миг срещнаха неговия.
Дънкън ускори ход и се загуби сред тълпата мъже, но знаеше, че те са видели бележката му.
Вие сте всичко за мен!" пишеше на бележката.
Посланието бе винаги едно и също, но винаги звучеше по новому, както за него, така и за тях, защото думите бяха написани с искрено чувство, а това бяха думи, които си струваше да се казват отново и отново, и отново.
His control creates a story that is never too hopeless to lose its deeper meaning, and that embraces its characters as real people, rather than tools for social messages.
For new readers, do not be daunted by the series - the books are tenuously related and can be read in almost any order you like.
As this book is the shortest and deals with the most characters of our own cultures, it may be the easiest introduction to James Clavell, though some readers may prefer to jump right into the deeper culture clash of Shogun or Noble House.

It's a great fictionalized account of American, British, & Australians in Changi, a Japanese POW camp during WWII.This audio edition has extra material from the original manuscript that's never been published before including an introduction written by Clavell's son.
Clavell was a prisoner in the Changi POW camp that this book centers around.
Uncertainty is hell & the Japanese, although they signed the Geneva Convention, never ratified it nor did they follow it.The Princeton Bio for James Clavell:https://www.princeton.edu/~achaney/tm...Wikipedia - James Clavellhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Cl...IIRC, when I first read this decades ago, 98% of the American's in the Japanese POW camps died.

Не 5, ако имаше как и 10 звезди щях да ѝ дам... Разкошна книга. Не ми се искаше да свършва. От тези, които после ти оставят книжен махмурлук... просто стоиш, гледаш в точка, не можеш да излезеш от историята и да се върнеш към реалността.
That's probably due in no small part to the fact that the 1965 movie "King Rat," with George Segal and James Fox, is tremendously awesome and one of the best war or prison pictures I've ever seen.
When that happens, Sean isn't a tolerated lust object anymore, but a deviant freak.I loathed Grey in the movie (Tom Courtenay), but I warmed up to him more in the book.
The main question I had at the end of the book was: Did the camp need the King?
От тук тръгна любовта ми към Джеймс Клавел...
In King Rat, James Clavell succeeds in doing what countless other authors usually fail at: taken actual experiences from his life and distilled them into a gripping dramatic narrative.
It's a story about survival and about friendship --- the true, unspoken kind that men shy away from when it is put into words.
The words "read this, it'll change your life" are dropped too often with books, but cannot be dropped often enough with this one.
A brutally realistic account of soldier's survival in a Japanese WWII prison camp.Clavell doing what he does best; making history come to life with very interesting and entertaining fiction.Back for more...i just found out that King Rat is in part autobiographical. Clavell was apparently a POW himself. That explains are great deal. i was very much awed that a fictional book could be so incredibly detailed and convey the day to day struggle of the characters so well. JC was writing from experience. Incredible!
I thought his novel was just fantastic! (However, the entire saga of the King and the diamond was a lot of build up for a lot of nothing in the end, wasn't it?)
I've read Shogun and Taipan, and though I adored the story lines and over the top drama in those books, I never really connected with the main characters because they were so loud and bold like superheroes...
When I read the last few pages, as the POW were being taken away, each of them nursing their own private fears about returning to a home they didn't know anymore and probably wouldn't know them, I was deeply moved and those last pages were what makes this book great and not just good.In a strange way, I'm going to miss reading about bedbugs, heat, rice, fried eggs, rats, cockroaches, fences, boreholes, sweat, cards, Sarongs, diamonds, Kooa cigarettes, wireless radios, and of course, friendship.For those who survived those camps, they were never the same, and in this book Clavell shared a little piece of Changi with us.
KING RAT is about the manliest, most violently existential novel south of Hemingway.
It's full of dudes lost without the structure and the social status that normal life usually provides and completely adrift, not knowing the faith of the free world during WWII.
It's a strange feeling reading something so close in style and philosophy to ol Ernie,but KING RAT was my first Clavell and it sure won't be my last.
He's too much fun not to read.
It's the kind of fun questions James Clavell answers with KING RAT.
Clavell is better known for his later Shogun and other Japanese history novels, but this earlier novel about the lives of Americans and British POWs in a Japanese prisoner of war camp is a classic. The title character is an American with a true gift for survival in the underground economy of the camp, and the book raises many questions about what the most ethical road is to take in an impossible moral situation.
Rank and class are important to the British who try to maintain discipline but there is corruption and theft of food.
The Americans are under the thumb of a superb entrepreneur who manages to have nice clothes, lots of food and Japanese money through great risk-taking in black market trading of food, soap and medicine.
The King works hard in getting the deal, forging unholy alliances with villagers, Japanese and Korean guards as well as the allied prisoners.
The Asian Saga: survival in a Japanese pow camp.
Благодарение на приспособилият се към живота в лагера Цар и сечащият му като бръснач ум преживяват и всички останали.
----------------Ако не сте чели книгата, но възнамерявате, не продължавайте с коментарите ми по-долу--------- Изключително много ми хареса края, сравнението на Царя с плъха Адам и изключително краткото, но точно и ясно сравнение на съдбата на плъховете с живота в лагера, а и не само-но и с живота такъв какъвто го познаваме всички ние.
Аз се загубих в това четиво, искрено исках да прегърна Питър когато разбра за ръката си, когато полудя пред приятелите си и когато се влачеше полумъртъв към оградата за парите.Искрено исках да прегърна Царя в края на четивото.
His career in Hollywood is almost as impressive as his novels (Due to lessons he learned the hard way in the POW camp?
Correction: Due to lessons he learned the hard way in the POW camp!).
Did you know that Clavell wrote and directed the movie TO SIR, WITH LOVE?I won't sport with your intelligence by relating the plot of the famous KING RAT story as told in novel and movie beyond to say that it is the story of how an American prisoner in a Japanese internment camp became more powerful than the Japanese warden.
As an Author myself I trace my roots on why I wanted to write back to "King Rat." After "Shogun" this is probably my favorite Clavell story, and rightfully so, as this was written based on Clavell's own experiences in a POW camp in WW II.What I take most from this book is that it directly inspired me to pursue writing, not for writing's sake, but to leave something worthwhile behind to inspire future generations.
Was googling Japanese POW camps to find more info after reading this amazing story. It's not for the faint of heart but very well done and worth your time. Just very eye opening to the deplorable conditions that prisoners lived in in that era. My grandparents lived in China during the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki and I remember them talking of a Japanese woman surviver that lived near them and took care of their children. Very good book!!!
Set in 1945 in Changi prison towards the end of the war, a story of men imprisoned on poor rations for months and years, and the growing relationship between a young British RAF officer and an American corporal, King. King is the best and cleverest black marketeer and operator in Changi. The desperation of all the camp inhabitants is all the more real when you know the author was in Changi himself for 4 years - this was his first novel, published in 1962.
"Животът на мъжа е вечен кръстопът. Но истинският мъж не избира само своята посока. На плещите му винаги лежи съдбата и на други хора."
The reprint I got from my local library contains sections left out of the original publication in 1962, giving a look at some of the wives and girlfriends of the prisoners and what they were going through while their men were in the camp.
I hadn't known that the book was based on Clavell's experience in such a camp in WWII and that Peter Marlowe was based on himself.Though the rest of his Asian Saga books are so very long, I think I may reread them also as I come to them in My Big Fat Reading Project.
I recommended this novel to my teen son and then re-read it myself.
The survivors are left to deal with survival instincts that may not fit them for life in the "world".*spoiler* As a psychological therapy, King Rat clearly was very important to Clavell, himself a POW at Changi Prison.
The Peter Marlowe character is Clavell himself, caught between the British class system replicated in the military and the American prisoners' informality.
The King is an American NCO whose talent for survival saves not only himself but Peter Marlowe, his company, and many others as well.
My interest in Japanese culture was just blossoming when I came across this powerhouse of a book, which I have re-read since at least three times.
The story, about a friendship between an American soldier and a British officer in a Japanese POW camp, and the way the two men influence one another, is interesting enough on its own, but the book also gives insight in how the camp strips the occupants of their civilization and shows the lengths people go through to survive.
Recommended not only to those who want a great war story, but also those interested in Japanese and Western culture clashes.
The start was quite slow, and the side stories, while pertinent, felt a bit out of place. The second half of the book was exhilarating though. The characters became more likable and the pace picked up a lot. After plodding through Gai-Jin, I really enjoyed this one. The fact that it is just one third the length of Gai-Jin helped too.
След толкова много фентъзи време беше да прочета някоя класика. Впечатлен съм от Клавел, разбирам защо книгата е толкова харесвана. Най-важното, е че научих доста неща за живота от нея... Препоръчвам я на всеки, който търси отговори :)
This is a book I read years ago and would like to get in my hands again.A tale of survival under brutal conditions in a prisoners of war camp.
Great one.Strongly recommend for my man-friends.I'll definitely read more from Clavell in the future.
