https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/230003.Daring_to_Dream
Margo, the housekeepers daughter, has always been in Josh Templeton's life. And he's always loved her. He has helped her out of a few scrapes, but this last one has almost broken her.  This is a beautiful romance with wonderful characters! Nora has the gift of keeping her main hero and heroine in the foreground while setting up the story for the next book and the one after that. She's amazing!! 😊❤❤
Margo, the housekeepers daughter, has always been in Josh Templeton's life. And he's always loved her. He has helped her out of a few scrapes, but this last one has almost broken her.  This is a beautiful romance with wonderful characters! Nora has the gift of keeping her main hero and heroine in the foreground while setting up the story for the next book and the one after that. She's amazing!! 😊❤️❤️
If you like Nora Roberts's books then you will enjoy this one.
It is pretty much her standard fare with three beautiful and talented female friends about to meet the loves of their lives, one at a time of course, in each of the three titles of a trilogy.
I quite enjoyed this one but the two lead characters were actually not very nice and probably deserved each other.
I do not feel compelled to seek out the next book in the trilogy although I would probably be happy to read it on a beach some day if I happened to come across it.
Not the best of her books by far.
This is a good story and introduction of the characters for the trilogy. I just didn't like Margo, the main character in the story. She was just too superficial and self absorbed. I enjoyed the relationship between the friends, which was the high point of the story. It's worth it to read this book just to get to their stories. And maybe Margo won't annoy others as she did me.
However, I will not overlook the deluge of plot clichés, cookie-cutter scenarios, dialogue, and the creep that Margo; a model who was embezzled to bankruptcy, loves.
If romances are like this, I am glad I seldom read them.
I was thrice appalled at what Nora Roberts thought was acceptable behaviour, in her late 1990s and early 2000s novels.
They are preferable to this one, Josh!Josh and Laura are wealthy siblings with loving parents.
Nora was silly about forcing each to be so different, they were caricatures: logical Kate, loyal Laura, celebrity Margo.
Sometimes I just feel like reading a romance, and who's better at good romances than  Nora Roberts?
Roberts might be a shopkeeper at heart if you consider her romantic heroines.
If you like Roberts, you certainly already read many of her successful stories and her leading ladies like Margo: there's Brianna and her B&B Blackthorn Cottage of Born in Ice; Rosalin with her In the Garden nursery of Black Rose; and even the four friends and their wedding planning company Vows of the  Bride Quartet.
Yeah, I really enjoyed these heroines and how they overcame adversity and found professional fulfillment and love.
Go on and try them if you haven't read them yet, and enjoy!
Daring to Dream (#1 in the Dream Trilogy) follows fiesty Margo Sullivan from her modeling days, the inevitable fall from grace, and then straight jump into bed with a man who she's known all her life.
This book, and I swear I don't generally say this about Nora Roberts' books, felt contrived and silly from the onset.
I found Margo to be a brat and her newfound love, Josh Templeton, a jerk with anger and jealousy issues.
After all, few of her books have.One of the things I love about Nora Roberts is her books aren't generally predictable.
Her reputation in tatters, her wealth stolen by one of her lovers, she has no other way to turn to but home.She’s filled with shame, guilt and remorse but with the help of her two close friends and family, especially Josh Templeton, she soon begins picking up the pieces of her life.Together with Laura and Kate, she opens up a shop, using her personal belongings as the first consignment for stocking the shop.This is such a wonderful family tale….friendship, love, loyalty and looking after each other when the times are not only good but bad as well.One may feel that Margo is a bit of a self-centered and selfish person but somehow that didn’t come across to me.
i mean is it just impossible for ppl to be dedicated to one person?&as always in a nora roberts book,the guy would do something outrageous like say she would stay with him and she gets mad but suddenly fogets how to refuse or just leave.&then all of a sudden she'd get over it.margo was a smokeaholic and an alcoholic,while kate was a Tums popper.characters in noras books are always drinkin wine.Kate turned into a real a hole when they got older.their friendship was terrible.&susan better watch her husband,because i swear margo was after him which was gross.but hey that's just how margo rolls.there were some funny comments in here and the whole locker thing was funny.everyone who had a hand in the shop were cons if you ask me.talking people into buying things,saying people looked good in stuff even when they didnt.
In love with the woman he likes to call Duchess since they were teenager, he never let his feelings showed, considering it preferable to wait for the right time.
Josh and Margo were like some kind of frenemy, always bickering but in a friendly way.
It's so sad that her latest work doesn't give me the same feelings of contentment but at least I'll always have these ones and it makes me happy :) It's interesting to realize Margo was not a perfect heroine.
3.5 stars.Can't believe this trilogy is already 20 years old! This was a re-listen and still surprisingly enjoyable. It's interesting to see that smoking was so cool in those days!
While it wasn't something special, it was definitely among the better romance novels I've read until now. Which is, you know, worth 4 stars.
*SIGH....Gosh I love a good happy ending. This book had me swooning and wanting to be caught up in the story of this woman's life. She is a strong woman, and surrounds herself with some people who help her realize how strong she is. I love that characteristic in a female character.
A Trilogia tem como protagonistas três grandes amigas de infância que foram criadas juntas e que se amam como irmãs, apesar de terem personalidades completamente opostas: Margo, Laura e Kate.A protagonista deste livro é Margo, uma mulher deslumbrante, antiga modelo, que volta para casa após um escândalo que arruinou a sua carreira.
Só que Josh quer mais, muito mais, e não se deterá até o conseguir.Mas será que ambos conseguirão superar as suas diferenças e passados,e construir um presente e futuro juntos?Um livro leve, com muito humor e um romance arrebatador pautado por jogos de sedução e ciúmes.
Já vos disse que adoro ciúmes e possessividade num romance?1 Dá um outro toque ao livro...
Two irritating, arrogant lead characters -- I guess they deserve each other. I kept reading the trilogy because I liked the secondary characters in this one.
Creo que es la primera vez que le pongo un puntaje tan bajo a un libro de Nora Roberts....Hay muchos elemento clásicos del estilo de Nora: Margo, Kate y Laura han crecido juntas, inseparable amigas proveniente de distintos ámbitos pero que encuentran el elemento común en su amistad y el escenario que les da esa oportunidad es la casa de los Templeton junto con la leyenda que la zona inspira, algo que en el corazón de tres niñas románticas las une y las marca. Es una trilogía así que hay un lib
Además de la falsa apreciación que ella se tenía, cosa que busca fuera a alguien que la acepte por lo "que vende" cuando siempre tuvo gente que la veía por quien era y la aceptaba; incluso el mismo Josh tenía mejor opinión de ella a pesar de conocer todo lo que había hecho.En fin; una trilogía que tiene elementos típicos de la narración de Nora con un escenario muy lindo , personajes secundarios que me interesaron más que los primarios de éste libro, una leyenda que inspira las vidas de los protagonistas de la serie que en el momento adecuado les ayuda a tomar la decisión más acertada.
ok so the book it self was 3 stars in my opinion as far as romance, but i gave it 4 because i liked the way NR created this characters and made them work out in romantic story.Let me warn you,that is not the typical heroine that is looking for love..Margo`s priorities are to make something of herself.
Margo achieves her "dreams" above and beyond..
the secondary characters as well as Joshua were very pleasant to read.
I for once felt Margo and Joshua`s dilemma,because its something we have to face every day..
She heads back home to heal her wounds and to help out an old friend going through an emotionally trying time and falls in love with the friend's brother, an old childhood crush, Josh now a rich playboy and sometimes attorney.This was the first book by Nora Roberts that I could easily put down.
I found Daring To Dream to be more effective as a story about a woman's struggle to rebuild her life after devastation, and her attempts to reestablish caring and loving relationships with her childhood friends.Although I didn't click with either main character in this story, and wasn't excited by the romance, Nora Roberts kept me entertained with the strong interaction between the friends.
I'm a little disappointed in myself that it took me this long to read the Dream series but better late than never.The series revolves around 3 lifelong friends - Laura Templeton, daughter of a hotel magnate, her cousin Kate Powell, orphaned young and brought to live with the Templetons and Margo Sullivan, daughter of the Templeton's head housekeeper.It's a great story that tells the tale of a woman's journey to realizing what is truly important is family and not material things.
Esta bien, solo bien no es algo nuevo para nada más bien es un libro con una trama común que ya hemo
Um romance maravilhoso, excelente para esta época de verão!https://momentosdemagia.wordpress.com...
Nora Roberts has done it again! Fully out of my reading slump. Yes, it's predictable. I don't care. Nora Roberts pulls me in every time.
Needed a little bit of Nora for my heart. Definitely, an author that never disappoints.
I think that is my one big problem with Roberts nowadays, none of the later books feel fresh, and when you go back and re-read the older ones you feel like you’ve read that story a dozen times or more.The setting of the great Templeton house was interesting, I felt like the Templetons were modeled off of the Hilton family in a way.
I also like how Roberts in her later two books does a great job of calling back moments that we read and giving you another perspective.
The big brother figure of the family, Josh Templeton had taken it upon himself to help Margo out even if she wasn’t aware of it.
Now that she was home, convincing her to see him as more than just a brother, more than just a friend might take more than the ten years he had already waited for her.
Book 1 of the Dream Trilogy.
Besides, Margo and Josh were already in love, they had known each other for so long and it had been there for so long that the actual “falling in love” was done and gone before the story began.
Books “MERAIH IMPIAN”Judul Asli : DARING TO DREAM( book 1 of the DREAM TRILOGY )Copyright © 1996 by Nora RobertsPenerbit Gramedia Pustaka UtamaAlih Bahasa : Nurkinanti LaraskusumaCover by Marcel A.W.Cetakan I : Agustus 2003 ; 464 hlmRate : 3 of 5California, 1846 : Seraphina adalah gadis cantik menawan yang telah memberikan hati dan jiwanya kepada Felipe – pemuda gagah yang berjuang di garis pertahanan Santa Fe melawan pasukan Amerika yang melakukan invasi ke New Mexico.
Bagi Margo Sullivan (12 tahun), yang dramatis dan memiliki jiwa bebas, ia menginginkan adegan yang berbeda, situasi yang sama sekali berbeda.
I have also read a couple of other books by this author and have really enjoyed them.What I did like: I liked the theme behind this book.
Once again we have a series of book by Nora the centers around the close friendship of three friends and we one friend that is the main character in this story, which I enjoy.
Overall Impression: I enjoyed this book as was hoping for a happy ending but at times I was wondering if this would happen.
I look forward to the rest of this series and hope to read more about her "sisters" 4 stars
The main character is flawed and stupid, but changes as she grows up.
The relationship between Margo and Josh is believable.
"Margo and Josh talked about X." Don't TELL us this happened when it's important to the plot.
Sadly this book altogether seems rushed, like a first draft, which I guess is to be expected when an author puts out upwards of ten books a year.
Her less-rushed works are much better.That said, I still enjoyed this book, and this trilogy.
I especially liked the strong friendship between the three women and how they and their parents form an unusual, but close family.I had some problems with Margo and Josh.
well, I didn't like how often he and Margo argued.
It took a long time till I could believe the book that they are in love, before that I couldn't see more than friendship and lust between them.
They said that they loved each other, but I didn't really feel it till later in the book.
Because of that, their story didn't move me as much as it could have.
Let's see how I like book 2.
After reading just a few pages, I realised that I’ve already developed a bond with her and the other 2 female leads (Laura and Kate), which will lead me effortlessly and happily through the rest of the series.Daring To Dream is about Margo’s journey, going though life-changing ups and downs and how she emerges out of everything stronger and more confident than ever.
She takes life head-on and faces the worst situations with a lot of courage.In this adventurous journey, Laura and Kate play a very important role and reminds the reader that true friendships never die.
This is probably the 2nd trilogy of hers I'd ever read and it stands up fairly well on re-reads.Margo has a lot of growing to do.
And I liked how she took responsibility for her screw-ups and did what everything she could to make something out of the ashes of her life.Josh was solid and steady, and his long-held love for Margo is sexier than I'd expected.
When he screws up, and he does, big time, he apologizes straight up (after he has his head back on straight).
Family is the backbone of this trilogy and it's strong and absolute.
