https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18774736-the-yellow-dog
Le chien jaune = The Yellow Dog (Maigret #6), Georges Simenon تاریخ نخستین خوانش: یکی از روزهای سال 1995 میلادیعنوان: سگ زرد : ماجراهای مگره، کمیسر پلیس - کتاب 6؛ نویسنده: ژرژ سیمنون؛ مترجم: عبدالله توکل؛ تهران، طرح نو، 1373؛ در 199 ص؛ از مجموعه کتابهای سیاه؛ چاپ دیگر: 1389، در 182 ص؛ شابک: 9789644890352؛ موضوع: داستانهای پلیسی از نویسندگان فرانسوی - سده 20 مسگ زرد، ترسهای پنهان، دسیسه ها، اضطرابهای نهفته در پس پرده ی عادتهای روزمره ی زندگی، و نظم حاکم بر آن است.
در جستجویم در اینترنت مطلبی دیدم که گویا با اقتباس از این کتاب 44 فیلم و 112 اثر تلویزیونی و شش نمایش تئاتری آفریده شده است.
Four hard-drinking, lecherous friends — all of them well to do — meet most nights at the Admiral Hotel’s café in the backwater seaside town of Concarneau — when they’re not carousing.
On Friday, Nov. 7, one of their number is wounded, shot in the stomach, on his way home from a night of drinking with these friends.
One by one each friend, is attacked — always when a certain yellow dog is present (or appears soon after) — until only one remains: the cowardly Dr. Ernest Michoux.
Beside himself with terror, Dr. Michoux refuses to leave the confines of the Admiral Hotel.
There's a reason this one is considered a classic Maigret.
The early books in this series have been a little bit hit and miss in terms of real quality vs Simenon's famed speedy production but The Yellow Dog was reissued as part of the Penguin Red Classics series and is deserving of the accolade.Set in a sleepy seaside town Maigret is called in to solve the seemingly random shooting of a drunken major from a letterbox of a locked up abandoned building.
There's a multitude of suspects and suspicions amongst the locals and many red herrings planted in his path but naturally Maigret has everything under control.Simenon puts together a fine mystery with a high quality of human observation and a way of setting scene that is second to none.
Basterebbero queste semplici parole che sono la summa di ciò che è Maigret e di cosa rappresenta nel panorama del giallo, non solo francese.
La figura di Maigret si i staglia diventando il protagonista di un giallo con segreti e misteri da svelare.
"Il cane giallo" rientra in una indagine che si svolge in Francia, nella zona di mare del Concarneau, in cui le vicende delle persone comuni (la cameriera Emma, su tutte), sono la parte migliore di una storia in cui il genio di Maigret è più vivo che mai e il paese è in continua trasformazione, proprio come i suoi abitanti.
La paura regna a Concarneau Concarneau, Bretagna, la sera di venerdi 7 Novembre. La cittadina e il suo porto sono spazzate da un forte vento di sud-ovest. L’orologio della città vecchia segna le undici meno cinque, quando uno sparo echeggia e un uomo, appena uscito dall’Hotel de l’Amiral, stramazza a terra …Il giorno dopo, Maigret, da un mese distaccato alla Squadra Mobile di Rennes, riceve la telefonata del sindaco di Concarneau, che lo prega di recarsi sul posto per indagare sul tentato omici
Concarneau, Bretagna, la sera di venerdi 7 Novembre.
L’orologio della città vecchia segna le undici meno cinque, quando uno sparo echeggia e un uomo, appena uscito dall’Hotel de l’Amiral, stramazza a terra …Il giorno dopo, Maigret, da un mese distaccato alla Squadra Mobile di Rennes, riceve la telefonata del sindaco di Concarneau, che lo prega di recarsi sul posto per indagare sul tentato omicidio.
«Maigret si era fermato di fronte al porto, a cinquanta metri dall’Hotel de l’Amiral.
Il riflusso della marea scopriva, ai piedi delle mura della città vecchia, banchi di melma in cui erano come incastonate vecchie pentole e immondizie.
Well that was fun, and the ending completely unexpected. as I keep saying, more on this book shortly.
In uno scenario prevalentemente notturno e piovoso, in cui si susseguono agguati, tentati omicidi, avvelenamenti e il clima di sospetto si stringe attorno ai notabili di paese, l'apparizione di un enorme cane giallo che vaga per i luoghi dei delitti è proprio una trovata d'ingegno sopraffino.
Bir Simenon polisiyesinden beklenebilecek her şey vardır Sarı Köpek’te: sâkinlerinin keyfini kaçıran cinayete kadar olağan-sıkıcı hayatını sürdüren bir liman kenti, kentin savcısının, belediye başkanının, emniyet müdürünün, doktorunun, ticaret erbabının yiyip-içip lafladığı kahvehane, gelip geçen gemiler, sisler altındaki kent her şeyden habersiz huzur içinde uyurken, yolu kentin limanından geçen, geçmişiyle kavgalı deniz insanları.
Maigret serisinin ve Simenon külliyatının ilk kitaplarından biri olmasına rağmen - Simenon, Sarı Köpek yayımlandığında henüz 28 yaşındadır - bu erken dönem Maigret macerasında herhangi bir acemilik emaresi görmek mümkün değildir.
Sarı köpek'te Komiser Maigret’nin yolu Fransa’nın liman kentlerinden biri olan Concarneau’ya düşmüştür.
Sarı Köpek'te Komiser Maigret o kadar gençtir ki, hemen her macerasında rastladığımız Madam Maigret’nin adını bile duymayız.
Et, hélas, je n'ai pas la cœur d'écrire la revue entière une second fois, donc, voici la dernière phrase que j'ai écrit auparavant (laquelle, au fond, dit la partie la plus importante de ma revue...)Bref, je peux recommander ce livre car il est intéressant, et si on veux lire quelque chose rapidement, on peut lire cela vite et se divertir.
Pour les erreurs dans ce que j'ai écrit...pardonnez-moi, c'est l'essaie qui compte, n'est-ce pas?Oh, je dois ajouter..."Tout seul dans la voiture, [Maigret] haussa au moins trois fois les épaules, comme un homme qui a une rude envie de se moquer de lui."Ce ne serait pas un livre français sans la haussement d’épaules, pas un, pas deux, mais TROIS fois!!
Fino ad ora ho letto un trentina dei libri di Simenon con protagonista Maigret.Mai una volta sono rimasto deluso, anzi più ne leggo, più mi piacciono e più mi appassiono ed affeziono al personaggio di Maigret.Ogni volta è come rincontrare un vecchio e buon amico che ti racconta una storia.
Un gialletto senza grandi pretese condotto con da Simenon con mano ferma ma senza grande impegno, una storia un po' forzata con qualche passaggio discutibile, buona la caratterizzazione dei personaggi ma per me non va oltre il 6
Not my favorite of the Maigret books I have read to date.
Maigret does seem removed and totally unconcerned as a town becomes hysterical with fear as to who will be the next victim as newspapermen churn articles about the poisoning attempts, shootings and the giant roaming the streets.
The story is centered on the "elite" men of the town who meet every day in the hotel dining room.
In fact, Maigret is being offered drinks with this group of men when one of the group warns all not to drink and asks the pharmacist to immediately test the contents of the glasses and bottles.
It is a quick read.
grande maigret, qui ancora più del solito
Les événements se multiplient dans tous les sens et au final ça va bien plus vite que ce que je m'imaginais, je ne me suis donc pas du tout ennuyée.Ce que je reproche par contre c'est le final.
Rien n'est expliqué.Et contrairement aux Agatha Christie qui étaient aussi sur ce principe de tout révéler à la fin, on a dans ce cas la aucune idée de comment Maigret à pu résoudre le crime.
In The Yellow Dog (US), Superintendent Maigret is sent to investigate a shooting in a small coastal town in France.
Maigret is often rather aloof with Leroy and can be rather harsh, but he’s passing on the lessons of police work in ways that only he can and points out that there is no one approach to the investigation of crimes as each one has its own flavour.
Maigret is hard and tough much of the time; he’s also warm and generous when the attention is off him – it’s a great mix.There’s plenty of action in this case and the plot is unfolded very nicely.
This is a very short book but it seemed like it took me forever to get through it because life is crazy during this time of year.
Some nights I'd only have a few minutes of reading time before dozing off.
So what I'm trying to say, is that this is not the fault of the book.
I think I would have enjoyed this more if I had read it all in one sitting.
I liked the MC and his "own way" of handling things.
I also liked the stage he set and how he worked the yellow dog into the story.
I read Maigret because he is an interesting detective and also because it's good to get a little bit of a French perspective amid all the British and American settings. While there's no way you can figure out the solution to this mystery, the writing is great and the atmosphere of terror created is wonderful.
After introductions, I am about to drink an aperitif with Messieurs Michoux, Le Pommeret, and Jean Servières, when the doctor suddenly becomes suspicious of something in his glass.
Before this discovery, the Brest Beacon receives a report of the events nicely calculated to sow panic in Concarneau.’‘Then Sevières is seen first in Brest, latter in Paris, where he seems to be hiding and to which he has apparently gone of his own free will.’‘The same day, Sunday, Monsieur Le Pommerest has an aperitif with the doctor, returns to his home, has dinner there and dies afterwards, from the effects of strychnine poisoning.’The mayor insists that Maigret makes an arrest, any arrest.
Simenon doesn't disappoint, but for the kind of reader I have become over the years (both in experience and temperament) I am now convinced that Martin Beck provides me the utmost delight when it comes to crime writing. Maybe I came to this Frenchman too late. For all the existential undercurrents of this book, it all seems same-old, same-old. The problem is of timing. A younger me would have gorged the Simenons (quick and easy they are) with pure joy, as only pulp fiction can bring.
If I would draw some conclusions about Simenon favorite schemes I would say that he likes showing us humane criminals, someone who is wronged by their victims big time. Here was another sad story and ruined life of innocent people. This is so sad. Especially the part about innocent dog being killed by the town folk.
I love Maigret.
The stage is set in the small Breton town of Concarneau when a murder attempt fails.
Maigret is order to investigate with the assistance of a young assistant, unknown to him.
A sinister yellow dog appears that nobody knows but seems in one way or the other connected to the crimes.
Young Simenon is still honing in this book the template of Maigret (here Inspector).
On a gloomy night in the small town of Concarneau, The yellow dog itself represents an interesting literary devices as signal function for Mr. X.
I mean, what's "perfection" when it comes to a detective novel anyway?
Written in 1931, this translation from the French left me with a warm feeling that the language of detective fiction has not needed any "dusting off" for the past century.
(Although, at a mere 134 pages, I can usually put up with anything.) Maigret manages to astound the mayor of Concarneau, the local gendarmerie, the fiendish Parisian press, and his inexperienced junior-detective sidekick with his preternaturally blase attitude.
This would indeed have been a realistic fate for a French murderer back in the early 20th century.I'll take it slow, but Maigret may enter the Star Chamber.
An early Maigret mystery; number six in the books released about this famous detective.This is a stand alone novel with the Chief Inspector away from Paris reassigned to Rennes to oversee the flying squad there.
Maigret is sent to Concarneau a fishing community in Brittany to investigate a mysterious shooting at the request of the town's politically connected Mayor.As with other stories the detective seemingly allows the actors to play out their roles while his skills interpret the baffling events which have left the local people in terror of an unknown assassin.
The plot is particularly fast-paced and urgent, even as Maigret himself gives the false appearance of meandering and plodding. This is one of the best of the series so far. It might be worth knowing that the sequence of the books is confusing -- thank goodness it does not really matter. Goodreads has a list of the Maigret books in order (which my library used to make its order and catalog the books) , and this is not precisely the same as that given by Penguin or even by goodreads with the individual titles in its search engine.
Another of the early Maigret mysteries first published in 1931, this one has Inspector Maigret investigating what seems to be an attempted murder in Concarneau, a small town on the coast of Brittany. There are several more incidents, including a poisoning. And there is a little yellow dog in the vicinity being seen at most of them. As in most small towns, everybody knows everybody else and word gets around fast, so Maigret has to deal with the alarmed public and mayor while investigating. Fast moving with a quite satisfactory ending.
الكتاب ده عندي من أكتر من ٣ سنين مع ٣ كتب من نفس السلسلة دي.مبدأيًا حاسة إن الترجمة واخدة من روح الرواية فمحستش إني مستمتعة بيها زي ما كنت أتمنى.الرواية بوليسية بيحصل فيها أكتر من محاولة قتل لأكتر من شخصية.. النهاية كنت متوقعة تكون قوية أكتر ومفاجأة أكتر لكن جايز أنا اللي توقعاتي كانت عالية شويةودي أول مرة أقرأ للكاتب ده أو أعرفه
The fifth 'Maigret' novel I have read. They have all been excellent so far and this one is no exception. In a rain-lashed coastal town, the great detective encounters a very baffling case involving disreputable local dignitaries, a huge vagrant and a mysterious yellow dog...Only 70 more 'Maigret' books to read!
Some of the minor characters were very good, as were some of the twists in the storyline and the atmosphere of the sleepy provincial town. As with most Maigret novels though, the basic plot is a bit too far fetched
My first Maigret book and it will not be my last.
