https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/131090.Night_of_Camp_David
So I examined the book more closely, and when I found it was Night of Camp David written by Fletcher Kneble (co-author of my second-favorite political thriller movie, Seven Days in May), I decided to give it a try.Boy, was I was wrong!
Fletcher Kneble, in the long run, lost his nerve, and, refusing to consider the implications of ending with a bang, decided instead on a whimper.
Do yourself a favor, and if you want to read a political thriller from the ‘60’s, choose Richard Condon’s Machurian Candidate instead (which is my first favorite political thiller movie!).Oh, a final word to the good folks at Vintage Books.
Fletcher Knebel 's first book written without Charles W.
This time, a junior senator from Iowa is asked to meet with the President at Camp David; the result of the meeting is that the senator begins to believe that the President is becoming clinically paranoid and is descending into madness.Writing in 1965, Knebel tries, and for the most part succeeds, to keep the tone matter of fact and eschews melodramatic flourishes in favor of documentary detachment and realism.
The most disturbing thing about the book is that the behaviors that in 1965 would make you think the president is insane now would get him elected.
You can see why this book is being talked about again (especially with the first chapter of the Press Correspondent's dinner) since it deals with a mentally unstable president and the "Deep State" group of politicians (including the Supreme Court Justice in this book, who is of course named Cavanaugh) who try to save the country (and the world) from him.
Edgar Hoover because he would never stoop to "blackmail"--and the party distinctions mean a bit less, since the president & hero of the book are both Democrats (Republicans barely seen in this at all), but since this was written right at the time of the Civil Rights act and South switching allegiance from Democratic party to Republican, party distinctions don't really apply.
What does a lawmaker do when he's convinced the president of the United States is insane? Here's a plausible scenario. Older book, but still relevant and thrilling.
Senator Jim McVeagh is approached by President Mark Hollenbach at a journalists’ dinner and invited to Camp David the same evening.
Soon afterwards, Jim breaks it off with Rita.As the President gets increasingly paranoid, he floats many plans to remove rights from the American people beginning with freedom of the press.
It is then that Jim concluded the President is insane.Night of Camp David seems like it was written for our current political climate of a President who also appears to have “delusions of persecution and perhaps grandeur as well.” However, it was originally published in 1965 well before the Trump and Nixon presidencies it most resembles.
What the hell, Grandma.
The unofficial subtitle of this work of fiction is: What would happen if the president of the USA went stark-raving mad?2.
It was published in 1965.This novel by Fletcher Knebel was just reissued by Random House, presumably because the premise is so close to what many people in this country now think of our current president.
The book's fictional president, Mark Hollenbach, is very (very) different from Donald Trump and not just because Hollenbach is a Democrat.
One thing that this book is NOT is a loosely-veiled roman à clef about the current administration.
Still, the basic premise of the book—what if the president DID go stark-raving mad?—is chilling.
An ambitious young Senator realizes that the President of the United States has gone insane, and frantically tries to convince his colleagues before he acts on his strange impulses.
Poor thriller by the author of Seven Days in May starts with an interesting premise, then bogs down in an overcomplicated plot; who cares about the protagonist's philandering or the President's choice of running mate when the fate of the Republic hangs in the balance?
It has a few interesting twists, then culminates in a damp squib of an ending that resolves everything without tension, conflict or catharsis.
It was a good read altogether.
Unfortunately, I didn't have enough sympathy for Jim Mcveigh's character.
His affair and quick & easy make up with the wife was more of a man's fantasy than reality.
The president and his crazy ideas were portrayed well.
Too, the inner workings of Washington and secret meetings within the Democratic party leaders were well done.The ending was anti-climatic for me.
I think the author could have gone somewhere exciting threat-wise, the president's finger on the button wise.
Could have written a fictional Cuban Missile Crisis type thing where only a few are aware of the danger.
Well written, easy to read.
This is a thought-provoking novel, the ideas still current 50 years later.
A junior senator is tapped as the president's running mate for his second term after the current VP is embroiled in a corruption scandal.
When the senator, Jim MacVeigh, has a late-night meeting with the president at Camp David, he's disturbed by the president's plans to institute wire-tapping of all phone calls and to forge a super-union with Canada and Scandinavia.
Is the president crazy?
Is MacVeigh overreacting?
The plot seesaws between these two ideas, making the reader (and MacVeigh) occasionally doubt MacVeigh's sanity.
This is a political thriller written in 1965 about a young senator who begins to suspect that the President of the United States has gone insane. The first clue? The president wants to enact a federal wiretapping law that would let him listen in on and store the phone conversations of US citizens. Crazy, right?
Come for the story of a paranoid, mentally incompetent president, stay for the yuck-yuck racism and unapologetic sexism?People may come to this novel looking for some suggestions for dealing with our current crisis or simply as an old-fashioned political thriller, but I don't think it satisfies on either front.
This is a story of a competent president who is experiencing a decline but ultimately cares about what is best for the country.
If you read it simply as a political thriller, even if you can get over the 99.9% white boys' club depicted here (not saying it's not accurate for the times but it's still jarring), the thrills are pretty tame.
As for the political message: The story probably was powerful in its day - do we have the wherewithal to deal with a mad president?
However, it is hard to treat the fictional President Hollenbach as mad -- on one of his good days, Trump makes Hollenbach seem the picture of sanity.
What I take as the message now, is not that the book is prophetic, but that it shows how low we've fallen.
In the fiction, members of his own party band together out of concern for the nation to take a mentally incapacitated president down.
On a par with "Seven Days in May" I think; thanks to Rachel Maddow for bringing this title to our attention. A very plausible scenario regarding the possibility of mental illness affecting a man who resides at the center of power. How does the American political system deal with such a situation? Knebel is on his game with this one, keeping the reader on the edge throughout the narrative. Quite well written, with many well-drawn characters - the cheating senator's wife comes off as too accommodating to be believed - but overall, this is a very entertaining and provocative story.
Is the President of the US cracking under pressure? Does anyone see it? What are the dangers to the world?The President decides he needs a new VEEP. One night at Camp David he blurts out his crazy plot. Should his running mate tell? Will anyone believe him? What should he do?Good political drama by the master, Fletcher Knebel.
Remarkable parallels to what's happening in DC today, from a book written in 1965.
I heard about this book on The Rachel Maddow Show and it sounded fun. The book was written in 1965 and the tone of the book shows that. The interesting part is how the question of the President’s competency is dealt with throughout the book. I can see some parallels to today.
Not as good as I was hoping but it was still worth reading.
beh, thriller non è proprio, l'idea è simpatica, portata avanti abbastanza logicamente, conclusione poco colpo di scena, però si legge scorrevolmente, romanzi in cui almeno non c'è un "cazzo" ad ogni frase come in quelli contemporanei. Meno avvincente di Sette giorni a maggio. Forse me lo avevano regalato per i miei 18 anni..
Even though this political thriller was published in 1965, it remains extremely relevant. The book is about what happens when the sitting present exhibits significant symptom of mental illness. Need more be said? (Thanks to the Rachel Maddow Show for the recommendation.)
Well...it was a rather interesting read, actually. But, the ending was such an utter disappointment. As if the author just got tired of reading and so ended it.
Read this back in 1969. Tonight Rachel Maddow talks about this novel’s eerie parallel to today. Same author wrote Seven Days In May. Terrific political thriller, both book and movie.
An old book, loaned from a friend, was really a very good novel.
Its title is Night of Camp David, but Amazon covered it up online with a teaser page to emphasize the novel's relevance to the madness in Washington today.
The implication is that this novel anticipated Donald Trump.In fact, this political thriller published more than 50 years ago is difficult to relate to today's circumstances.
And that's no surprise given the temper of the times.A novel that anticipated Donald Trump, five decades ago?In Night of Camp David, President Mark Hollenbeck displays classic symptoms of paranoia on numerous occasions.
Is it reasonable to think that Knebel would believe that his novel would anticipate Donald Trump?
which clearly the author of this book and the two other mentioned ALL predicted or else wrote horror stories about to raise awareness due to the risks he saw?....
Since Chomsky is also known for his strong politicalopinions (social syndicalism etc), I want to point out that he (also) can think to support the cited conclusion of the risks / REAL THREAT TO ALL OF US in the world, of Trump is so much more frightening than even this / these books if THEY all three combined was the worst case Sebastiao,,, Amazed and I wonder if the author thought of all three in essence ever being non-fiction at once...?
The new edition features a stark black cover with the words "What Would Happen if the President of the U.S.A Went Stark-Raving Mad?"Well.In Knebel's novel, the junior Senator of Iowa (Jim MacVeagh) is summoned late at night for an impromptu visit to Camp David, where he begins to suspect the novel's tightly-wound President (Mark Hollenbach) is becoming unhinged.
The novel works best when MacVeagh is struggling with the idea that he, alone in the world, may be the only person who suspects Hollenbach might be losing his marbles.
I don't normally read political thrillers but I bought this at Barnes & Noble last Friday after reading this review in The Guardian: https://www.theguardian.com/books/201....To be clear, Knebel (now deceased) originally published this book in 1965. He's apparently the godfather of modern political thrillers, publishing a host of best sellers (Advise and Consent, The President's Plane is Missing) in the wake of the Cuban Missile Crisis. The book is now being re-published to capitalize on swi
The new edition features a stark black cover with the words "What Would Happen if the President of the U.S.A Went Stark-Raving Mad?"Well.In Knebel's novel, the junior Senator of Iowa (Jim MacVeagh) is summoned late at night for an impromptu visit to Camp David, where he begins to suspect the novel's tightly-wound President (Mark Hollenbach) is becoming unhinged.
The novel works best when MacVeagh is struggling with the idea that he, alone in the world, may be the only person who suspects Hollenbach might be losing his marbles.
Apparently, Patrick O'Malley, the current VP has been caught in a bribery scandal and Hollenbach is going to ask for the VP's resignation.McVeagh is troubled by the fact that the meeting was late at night, held in total darkness, and Hollenbach is accusing the VP of being a member of a network of men who are on a conspiracy to bring the president down.A sense of patriotism invades McVeagh, who thinks the President has lost his mind and it's up to him to bring the President down before he has a summit with the Russian Premier.
What if the President of the United States went stark raving mad?First published in 1965 "Night Of Camp David" was reissued recently because of todays headlines regarding the Trump administration.This must have been a pretty far fetched idea back in 1965 but again the country just suffered from one of the most tragic of events in losing a president to an assassination.
I will let you read the story for yourself and not spoil it.There are some interesting comments from the period made about people and politics and MacVeagh's that in todays world may not be so politically correct...
However, the plot is certainly worth reading as the overlay on the re-issued book from 1965 reads: What would Happen if the President of the U.S.A. went Stark-raving Mad?All of the women are portrayed as less than men.
One man confesses to his wife of his affair.
However, ninety percent of the book is about the power men in D.C. and one man's concern that the POTUS is losing his mind to paranoia and rages.
An excellent idea to re-issue exactly as it was written.
Camp David shows where our country was fifty-three years ago, the distance we have traveled and the distance we still need to go.
