https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148842.The_Real_War_1914_1918
This is strictly a book for folks who are able to visualize war as a complex puzzle with complex characters who are struggling for achieving definite objectives.
This is not a book for those who wish to know about the costs of war or what war wreaks on a nation.
We never get to know what the peasant tilling on the fields of Germany thought of the war effort as he sat eating ersatz foods during his lunch break.
The book breathes life into even the most static military struggle the world has ever witnessed.
In his War Memoirs, Lloyd George recalls a conversation with the French General de Castelnau as stalemate set in on the Western Front.
Understandably sickened by the Western Front, Liddell Hart developed the strategy of Indirect Approach, namely, avoiding the bulk of the enemy's forces and taking his flank or rear (see his book Strategy).
If politicians could not deliver peace the generals must deliver victory and to secure this there was no alternative to defeating the German army in the field.
As horrible as the Western Front was, the “something else” on another battlefield is a chimera.
История на Първата световна война: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/i...Основният ми интерес и в университета, и до днес е Втората световна война и началните етапи на Студената, пряко следствие от нея, но не можех да пренебрегна излизането на този прекрасно изглеждащ том на Базил Лидъл Харт, посветен на Първата световна война. Доколкото разбрах, първоначално книгата излиза през 1930 г., после двукратно е преработвана и допълвана, като преводът е от последното издание от 1970 г.Издателство Труд﻿http://knigolandia.info/book-review/i...
ağırlıklı olarak batı cephesi ve doğu cephesinde alman-rus ve avusturya macaristan-rus mücadeleleri işlenmiş.
savaşın en çok kayıp veren ülkesi osmanlı'ya dair çok az detay var bu ciddi bir eksiklik bana göre kitabın başındayken de yorum olarak belirtmiştim savaş öncesi ülkeler hakkında bilgi verilirken de osmanlı es geçilmişti.
bunun dışında batı cephesi ile ilgili çok doyurucu bilgiler var.
yazar her yıl öncesi genel hatlarıyla bir ön bakış yapıyor daha sonra kronolojik olarak cephe cephe anlatmış o yıldaki savaşları ben bu tarzı sevdim şahsen.
bazı muharebeleri okurken sıkılabiliyor insan ama her bölümde çok kıymetli bilgiler ve yazarın da güzel tespitleri var.
The first real history of the first world war I've read. Has the sharp analysis that would expect from Liddell Hart
It is written by a military historian, and in his scope lie the grand war-plans of the Field Marshals and the Crown Princes, the whirling, sweeping moves along fronts miles broad, entire armies described as pawns on a chessboard spanning a continent that was awash in blood by the end of the “Great War” but stubbornly refused to learn a single lesson from it.Within the limitations described above, this book is a marvellous read indeed.
It is hard to read the book without being crushed by the futility of the war, something that Liddell Hart actually accents by highlighting where the generals went wrong.
A particularly painful part of the book is the praise that Liddell Hart gives Petain.
It only makes Petain's later actions even harder to deal with and understand.I enjoyed reading this book and finding the beginning of ideas that would later be expanded upon in Liddell Hart's book: Strategy.
I had actually been looking for a one-volume history of the first world war for a long time, and was delighted when I found that Basil Liddell-Hart had written one in 1930. His writing is as usual concise and engaging, though even I had a bit of trouble staying with it through the largest battles like Verdun, the Somme, and Passchendaele, though this is really more the nature of the conflict than Liddell-Hart's writing at fault.However, the side campaigns and the eastern front are portrayed quite vividly, and this will be a good springboard into further reading about the war.
This was a criticof the strategy and tactics of both sides in WW I by a British military officer. Ir provided some interesting insights but mostly was short on overviews and long on criticism. You would need to have an indepth knowledge of WW I to get the most out of this book
WHY did the countries fight
Well written book about the cause and effect of World War One.
The book itself describes the progress of the history of the war not only as a historian and/or as a captain but also an English intellectual who wants to look the affairs w/a wide angle including international relations and a political scientist. We're very lucky to have such a book to enlight the contemporary politics and affairs.
