https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22054340-the-queen
In the main series, Queen Amberly is the epitome of poise, grace and love...BUT back in her day, she was quite the feisty girl (well, kind of) (okok, not really)I mean, she did shock the entire world  when she (a lowly Four) won the Selection and was granted the honor of marrying Prince Clarkson.
Thank goodness this one was short - I don't think I could've handled much more of it.Audiobook CommentsOkay, in Book 1 - Queen Amberly didn't have an accent but her sister had a strong southern twang (since they were Fours from the south).
What the shit is this?This was supposed to be a heartfelt tale of how Maxon's mom, Amberly, went on to win the Selection and become Queen. Keyword:  supposed .This is not a love story; its a portrayal of an unhealthy relationship. Maxon's dad (he shall hereby be referred to as M'sD as I didnt bother to remember his name and I don't care enough to check) is one of the most assholic son of a bitches I have ever read about and Amberly is not only a human doormat, but also the most naïve idiot I hav
What the shit is this?This was supposed to be a heartfelt tale of how Maxon's mom, Amberly, went on to win the Selection and become Queen.
.This is not a love story; its a portrayal of an unhealthy relationship.
"From now on your only job is to show up, be a lady, sit there, and smile."[M'sD's mom] eyes met with mine as she ended her speech, and, stupidly, I thought that was a command.
Really?And I mean it when I say they had an unhealthy relationship comment.
Buddy read with my girl, Desireé :) 4 Queen, Wife, Adore. ★'s   “You will be the only thing in this world that is truly mine. And I will put you on a pedestal so high, it will be impossible for anyone not to adore you.” This novella was surprisingly a very delightful read. I have never liked Clarkson because he was always shown as a mean hurtful tyrant and although I still don't exactly like him I got to see him through different eyes. Amberly's eyes. She is such a sweet and caring person though
I have never liked Clarkson because he was always shown as a mean hurtful tyrant and although I still don't exactly like him I got to see him through different eyes.
And Clarkson got a little peace.
I loved getting a chance to see how Maxon's parents met, I just wish I knew how Clarkson went from this kind-ish boy to be such a cruel and hateful man.
Everyone who loves The Selection should really take the time to read this.
Illustration of Queen Amberly & What I picture she'd look like.Illustration of King Clarkson & What I picture he'd look like.
|3.8 stars|This is going to a be a really short review.Overall I really enjoyed this novella and I was so curious about Queen Amberly but I just didn't feel like the book gave her the credit she deserved.
I wanted to know more about her.But can we talk about how Amberly was so like America?
I mean, that makes it all worse because America was literally the little girl she could never have.
He was way too much of an asshole to me to just forgive him like that.Anyhow, Amberly, you deserved so much more, darling.
The Queen is #0.4 in The Selection series by Kiera Cass. It’s no secret how much I am in love with this series. I have been from the start. This little novella explains so much as to what made King Clarkson the man we know him as. It is the story of the previous Selection, when Queen Amberly met Clarkson while he was a Prince choosing his own future bride.  Even though we get a good look at Clarkson’s own parents, the current King and Queen and their very dysfunctional relationship, I still hav
It’s no secret how much I am in love with this series.
It is the story of the previous Selection, when Queen Amberly met Clarkson while he was a Prince choosing his own future bride.
Amberly was clearly smittened with Clarkson before she even met him.
But were the reasons Clarkson chose her for love, or just because she was submissive to him?
The Amberly we meet, though, is every bit the poised woman and future Queen we know her as.
“You’ve kept my secrets, and I assure you, if you marry me, there will be scores more to keep. You don’t judge me, or seem startled by much. You’re soothing.” His gaze traveled up to my eyes. “I’m desperate for peace. I think you might be the only chance I have at that.” I mean, I can see why King Clarkson was an actual jerk face in The Selection. He didn't like America, and he didn't like some of the girls. I'm pretty sure he got that from his mother, but pretty sure his attitude comes from hi
Even though the King and Queen before Clarkson and Amberly were mentioned like once (I think) in The Selection, there wasn't much said and nothing was needed.
But suddenly Amberly is able to bring him peace and is able to do the things he's been waiting for: keep his secrets, bring him peace, and not act like a spoiled brat like the other selected girls.The Selection was not my favorite series.
It's not like America where America doesn't want to enter the Selection and doesn't really care about marrying Prince Maxon, but Amberly has been in love with Clarkson since she was 7 and has wished to marry him, kiss him, have his arms wrapped around her, and yeah all that.
I mean Clarkson is a terrible person and how could I like someone who I know will hurt his son in the future?
Queen Amberly seemed like such a lady in The Selection but now I can't help seeing her like a submissive little girl.
Oh my god we could see how Queen Amberly was before she became the Queen of Illéa she was so amazing in the books and I can't let go of this series just yet.
(sigh) No matter what I'm still going to read it, I can't let go of this series just yet...
UPDATE: It says december 2nd which means...

Conclusion: King Clarkson has always been a huge asshole and Queen Amberly has always been a sweetheart.
KIERA CASS, ARE YOU SERIOUS!?I THOUGHT AFTER YOU'VE FINISHED THE ONE, THATS IT!!NO MORE, NO EXCESS!!BUT I CAN'T CONTAIN MY FEELS WHEN I SAW THIS, THIS EFFING GORGEOUS NOVELLA WITH AN AMAZING COVER.!!!!OHHHH KIERA, NOW WHAT HAVE YOU DONE!!! YOU PUT ME INTO ANXIETY!!!! I'M EXCITED!!!*hyper-ventilates*
Sumisa, sosa y estúpida; se enamoró del príncipe por la tele y está dispuesta a lamerle las medias con tal de que le sonría ¡por favor!Amberly se la pasa llorando porque no puede tener un **** bebé, echándose la culpa de todo.
Sé que cada uno tiene sus opiniones y todo ese rollo, pero, chicas, nos la pasamos luchando siglo tras siglo para los derechos de las mujeres, para la igualdad de género, ¿y nos dejamos degradar por un libro así?Porque básicamente Kiera Cass nos pone a las mujeres como una máquina de hacer bebés obediente que sólo está para complacer a su marido.
The Queen is a prequel novella in Kiera Cass's young adult, dystopian series titled: The Selection Series.
This short story features Maxon's father and mother, King Clarkson and Queen Amberly, and includes the story of how they met through their generation's selection process.
The answer is...I have to admit though, Ms. Cass was much more subtle in her character development of Clarkson, but his need to control and his hard-handed threats are still shown through his interactions with others in this prequel.
Through Amberly's point of view, the two of them have a very promising future together, and they may very well be just what each other needs.
OMFG WE GET TO READ THIS ABOUT OUR ADORED QUEEN AMBERLY!?!??!?!?!?!?!????!!!!!!!!!!!!?!?!??!!???!?!?!I WANT IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!KIERA I WANT IT NOW!!!!!!!!!! EDIT: MAY 16DID THAT JUST FREAKING SAY DECEMBER 2!?!??!?!?!??!?!?!??!?!WTF!!?!??!??!?!?!??!NO!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!I WANT IT NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
We get a glimpse of the life of Maxon`s parents: Queen Amberly and King Clarkson.
Their first interaction with the Prince went somewhat like that:-	Cut your hair.-	You don`t like it?-	Meh, I think you`ll look better with a short hair.-	Well, even though I like my long hair, I would go bald if you asked to.
His parents are constantly fighting and, because he doesn`t want to be like them, he`s looking for a wife that won`t ever say “no” to him.
And I thought I liked Queen Amberly.
This was such a disappointment. I ended up loathing the one character that I actually liked in the Selection series, Queen Amberly. She turned out to be a shallow and totally deprived of self-respect little twit.I don't even think I can explain it. Just please, don't read this.
If I can agree on anything with anyone, it's that Clarkson is a grade A creep and awful human being. Even during his own selection.
Es extrañísimo leer este relato y ver que Amberly, aún entendiendo y siendo partícipe de las explosiones en el carácter de Clarkson, haya querido ser su princesa, su reina, y estar a su lado.
Es un relato duro de leer porque se desmorona un poco la idea que teníamos de la Reina Amberly gracias a los libros de The Selection, pero tampoco creo que debamos juzgar rápidamente.
No todas las parejas son perfectas y, como en la realidad, los libros tampoco pueden escapar de eso.
Y, más importante aún, el que un escritor plasme relaciones abusivas en un relato o libro, no quiere decir que las condone.
I really liked to start The Selection series with this one, it's nice to know more about the King and Queen before jumping in with the first book.
Loved seeing Queen Amberly go through the Selection and loved seeing how King Clarkson treated her and how he told her she was the one
(hide spoiler)] But I liked the way (view spoiler)[he said all of that stuff, and their first kiss was exceptional :)  (hide spoiler)] And while it's sad, it's also good to see that all stuff isn't what it seems at the start, what with (view spoiler)[during America's Selection, we see Clarkson and Amberly not too loving.
(hide spoiler)] I like the way Amberly knew she wanted the crown, as well as Clarkson, while that's what America thinks she doesn't want.
This story explains a lot about the King Clarkson behavior, but brings us a Queen so submissive that is difficult we like her.

No es una mala historia. Fue muy interesante ver a la Reina Amberly y al Rey Clarkson antes de casarse, en su selección. Ambos no son muy agradables en especial el Rey Clarkson, ambos tienen muchos defectos. En cierto modo los comprendo a los dos más ahora, pero todavía no me agrada ninguno, especialmente Clarkson.
This novella was so good! I love queen Amberly and it was awesome to read her story during her own selection! Really great read!
I just keep giving this woman my money and I fail to regret it every time.
I really enjoyed this story, but would have rather seen it as a prequel series or full length book rather than a packed novella. When it ended I felt like it had hardly begun.
Πρώτη φορά ανυπομονούσα τόσο πολύ να διαβάσω νουβέλα στη ζωή μου.Και τώρα που διάβασα το "The Queen" I'm like *hmm...* .Και αυτό για τους εξής λόγους:1) (θα αρχίσω από τα εύκολα).
Αξιαγάπητη ναι μεν, καλή, γλυκιά κοπέλα, ερωτευμένη με τον Κλάρκσον αλλά αρκετά αφελής δε, ηττοπαθής και υπάκουη αλλά σε σημείο όμως που φαινόταν λες και είναι χαλάκι του Κλάρκσον (το καταλαβαίνω ερωτευμένη ήταν αλλά δική της βούληση για κάποια πράγματα τίποτα;) .
Στα κανονικά βιβλία της σειράς και στις υπόλοιπες νουβέλες αυτής (The Prince, The Guard) έχουμε δει ότι ο Κλάρκσον φερόταν άσχημα , με κακία , με χειριστικό τρόπο και χωρίς να δείχνει και τον ιδιαίτερο σεβασμό προς το γιο και τη γυναίκα του αλλά και προς την Αμέρικα και τον οποιονδήποτε άλλο.
I wanted to like Clarkson, but he reads as a misogynistic douche.
I enjoyed learning a little more of how Maxon's Mom became Queen and what her selection was like. This gives a small glimpse into that.
My entire relationship with the Selection series is pretty hard to describe.I can't say I'm in love with it, but at the same time I feel this weird obsession-like attachment to it.So yes, I devoured this one too.It was as good as all the other books and even though I (we all) hate Prince/King Clarckson, it was something that was easy to forget due to Amberly's love for him.Plus, I've never seen the Bachelor so hit me up with as many different Selections and I'll be on my toes, cheering!
