https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55236.The_Irony_of_American_History
"Nothing in history is inevitable."-- Reinhold Niebuhr"Sometimes the irony in our historic situation is derived from the extravagant emphasis in our culture upon the value and dignity of the individual and upon individual liberty as the final value of life."-- Reinhold NiebuhrI read this on a plane ride from Malta back home to AZ.
Normally, I wouldn't consider a book of philosophy to be a travel book/beach read, but Niebuhr's prose was so clean and his ideas expressed so well that I could have read it anywhere and not been distracted.
Though he draws a deep influence from scripture and bases his worldview on questions of faith, hope, and sin, he is not the bloody crusader we have seen over the past thirty years.
Niebuhr's thought straddles the two conceptions of american history, between the 'Puritan' moral ideal and 'Yankee' ideal of power.
Nevertheless, American policy almost since its foundation has often been couched in moral language, while achieving realist aims.
But even if we do have problems of evil, he cautions against having a 'black and white' view of morality, with dual parties in eternal opposition.
Niebuhr's purpose in identifying the ironic forces at play in American history is to increase awareness of them, as awareness of irony dispels it.
If that was the feeling in the late 90s, how could a Cold War-era book on communism be timely today?
One need only substitute the term terrorism for communism and The Irony of American History comes across as a new release rather than a re-release.The similarities are uncanny: the folly of a preemptive war, the misguided notion of spreading democracy in totalitarian agrarian nations, and the delusions of a powerful nation believing it is the master of its own destiny are all discussed.
Dry, wordy, and sometimes hard to follow.
There were nights reading this where I would finish several pages and have no recall of what I had just read.
I did end up highlighting multiple passages though, and the final sentences in the book do seem very appropiate in the current day, as the author talks about our duty in preserving our civilization: :"For if we should perish, the ruthlessness of the foe would be only te secondary cause of the disaster.
The primary cause would be that the strength of a giant nation was directed by eyes too blind to see all the hazards of the struggle; and the blindess would be induced not by some accident of nature or history but by hatred and vainglory."
However, I don't think Americans are as naive about this as they once were.
If anything, I think we have now gone past irony and are well into cynicism.
I still agree with the premise that we should not be engaged in deciding the fates of nations abroad, but I worry that we've lost faith and are too cynical about the social changes we can make domestically.
This book doesn't address that directly, but it was written in a time when Americans were still committed to domestic progress through labor and other reforms.
Our claim that with American optimism all men can guide their destiny through sheer character is as baseless as the inevitable communist historical dialectic.As I said, he is relentless, as much as he decries communism he feels we have to guard ourselves against the hubris of any idealism, even American idealism.[idealism}...is too certain that there is a straight path toward the goal of human happiness; too confident of the wisdom and idealism which prompt men and nations toward that goal; and too blind to the curious compounds of good and evil in which the actions of the best men and nations abound.
They are the perils which can be understood only if we realize the ironic tendency of virtues to turn into vices when too complacently relied upon; and of power to become vexatious if the wisdom which directs it is trusted too confidently.
The ironic element in American history can be overcome, in short, only if American idealism comes to terms with the limits of all human striving, the fragmentatiness of all human wisdom, the precariousness of all historic configurations of power, and the mixture of good and evil in all human virtue.
The introduction by BU International Studies professor Andrew Bacevich calls it "the most important book ever written on U.S. foreign policy." (!) I don't know about that, but it certainly deepened my thinking.
And the irony that it MUST be exercised.What I take to be the central paragraph of the book: "Nothing that is worth doing can be achieved in our lifetime; therefore we must be saved by hope.
Therefore we must be saved by the final form of love which is forgiveness." Obama seems to have taken this kind of analysis to heart--he calls Niebuhr his favorite philosopher--and I've heard his Nobel acceptance speech described as pure Niebuhr.
Although most of the book is a diatribe against Communism, Niebuhr does not glorify American democracy.
His insights into American aggression in 1952 have been validated.
There is a blurb on the back of the book by then-Senator Obama.
I think Obama's presidential record reflects Niebuhr's positions.
A quote to sum up: "The controversy between those who would 'plan' justice and order and those who trust in freedom to establish both is, therefore, an irresolvable one.
Every healthy society will live in the tensions of that controversy until the end of history; and will prove its health by preventing either side from gaining complete victory."(edited for clarity in 2014)
For Niebuhr, the ultimate irony of history is that a supposedly great and virtuous power would need to hold nuclear weapons (weapons that threaten the destruction of humanity) in order to dissuade greater tyranny—this Niebuhr terms “the ironic climax of [US] history.” This irony—that a supposedly great and virtuous nation must use its power imperfectly and often amorally—is something that can be seen throughout the Cold War. In the introduction of the book, Bacevich argues that this is the most important book ever written on U.S. foreign policy because it warns about “the indecipherability of history; the false allure of simple solutions; and finally, the imperative of appreciating the limits of power” (p.

On the deepest level, ""The Irony of American History" reflects Niebuhr's complex Augustinian theology with its teachings of original sin, skepticism about humanity's ability to resolve its problems, and realization of human finitude.This book is strongly and unmistakably anti-communist in contrast to the more ambivalent views Niebuhr expressed in earlier books, written during the Great Depression and During WW II including "Moral Man and Immoral Society: A Study in Ethics and Politics (Library of Theological Ethics)"; and "The Children of Light and the Children of Darkness: A Vindication of Democracy and a Critique of Its Traditional Defense".
This book's worth rereading periodically because every time through will lead to another new insight.Niebuhr's perspective on Christianity is thoughtful, abstract, academic, and maybe monastic.
When the simple interpretation of scripture is insufficient, Niebuhr offers a brilliant, abstract one.
One of the most refreshing parts of reading Niebuhr, actually, is hearing him frame Christian ideas in their strongest formulations.
Niebuhr has a tendency to criticize social and political theory by foiling it against his theology.
What frustrates me is while he formulates his arguments from theology in their strongest light, he usually frames the secular theory he's dismissing in a concrete (and, comparatively, mediocre) formulation.
Thus we arrived at the point of our greatest power having to rely on the most morally ambiguous weapon.This book also has some thought-provoking comparisons of classical liberalism and communism.
The point is that belief in one's moral purity is always bad because (as Niebuhr shows) any politics or identity that doesn't grapple with the flaws in our nature will likely tip over into zealotry and intolerance.The more I read this guy the more I see how figures like Obama love him.

ohdeargoodness. this book is now among my top five ever books! to think that i've only just read it. well, better late than never. and i am sure i will be re-reading if not actually memorizing it. i am a "political" animal but also high-strung and emotional, so as a political devotee i seriously need a solid foundation of reasonable thinking as a solid foundation before setting out (yet again) for political arenas.
His view of communism/Marxism seems a clear product of his time, but the comparison between 1950s communism and democracy/capitalism (what he calls bourgeois society) made sense. I still need to think about this...it reminded me of some of the arguments in Zizek's work, but I'm not ready to articulate why, yet. Just a disavowal of cynicism, I guess.
This book seems to be (I was never 100% sure I was fully tracking with the author because this subject matter is outside my wheelhouse) a study in 20th-century American foreign policy using a lens of irony.
The strength of this ideal, coupled with our power on the global scene, demands we amass enough military power to crush forces that would threaten world peace.
Second, we value economic prosperity, and even though much our nation's prosperity has come through luck (natural resources) and/or evil practices (slavery), we use it to commend democratic capitalism to the world.
Theories of history being my current fascination, I was directed to Niebuhr as a pessimistic speculative theorist.
Guilt and innocence, the guilty opponent, the innocent self, are the primary colors of the history of man.
Man cannot escape his desire for innocence, a vantage point that may be claimed from which to dictate terms to the future.
Niebuhr points out again and again that the saving grace of overly technical achievement in the West is just that it is not overly self conscious.
In Niebuhr's day, the materialists were aligned under a specific doctrine of revenge and righteousness.
There were a few times in the book I wondered if that particular viewpoint made his statements suspect.
If one were to take the religious view out of his theory, the idea that hubris will be the ultimate sin of our "great nation" stands up to scrutiny.I have read a few other reviews and I cannot do any better than many of them.
I can only say that the deep thinking of Mr. Niebuhr is on full view here and his thoughts are just as relevant today as they were in 1952.
I think we would all be better off if he were here to speak out.
Ok, I really liked this, what with all the honesty and nuance and complete lack of romance.BUTMy hair kept catching on fire.
How, HOW can an essay called the "Irony of American History," mainly about historical misuse of power and collective guilt, that regularly references Jeffersonian ideals and Manifest Destiny...
I mean, the very first great irony in American history is the outrageously ironic rhetoric of Thomas Jefferson, slaveowner.
What the hell does he mean that the US was "innocent" before it began flexing its military power internationally?The irony of "The Irony" actually made it a struggle for me to read.
Niebuhr was writing in the Cold War, trying to warn America of over-confidence and a lack of self-criticism while also emphasizing the importance of fighting evil.
It's also highly relevant for today.
Obama mentioned Niebuhr was his favorite philosopher and you can see why.
Niebuhr called on America to be cautious and humble in its approach to the world, but still saw America as a potential force for good.
He also warned about the nihilistic depths we might sink to if the illusion of American innocence and power faded, which is particularly relevant for today's politics...
While there were several well stated concepts, the overall feel of this was of America-first, anti-any other political system, and very much a narrow view of humanity.
Yes, it was drafted in the 5 or so years after the end of the conflict known as WWII but that was not the central aspect of the dialogue.
So much of the content was spent on evaluating and disassembling the "Communist menace" of the era leading up to that period of American history we know know as McCarthyism that if there was a different purpose of the full thesis I could not find it.
I listened to it (book on tape - i'm a long-distance runner) and understood the parts but not his overall idea, so i listened to it a second time. Then started a third before deciding that maybe this book is applying his thought to politics, and i won't understand this by itself without learning more about his theories from other works.
Mr. Niebuhr had me at "irony." This important gem of a book is worth re-reading, many times, and the pearls are too numerous to mention. One example: we (mid-century Americans) are actually better than our creed (though our creed is market capitalism, we support unions to promote societal health). I have long considered this my favorite book.
Well written critique of American exceptionalism. It’s as if Niebuhr was anticipating the Vietnam War. Niebuhr is justifiably harsh on Communism but also demonstrates the challenges the U.S. and its allies would have in defeating it. I wish that Niebuhr had paid more attention segregation and the moral challenges it presented.
A great book about politics and religion that has a lot to say about America in 2018. This book will require several readings in order to absorb completely as the author is quite good at packing in the details.
B+. Reread.
The Irony of American History by Reinhold Niebuhr seems to be the book most often referred to when speaking on the philosopher/theologian.To quote Obama via Brooks: “I take away,” Obama answered in a rush of words, “the compelling idea that there’s serious evil in the world, and hardship and pain.
Marxists/Communists assume that property rights are the cause of all economic ills and that if a nation has rich people they only became rich on the backs of the poor.2.
But Marxists point to these countries as evidence of Western exploitation.
Niebuhr looks down on "American Exceptionalism," the idea that America has a unique, world-enlightening role to play in history.
And I did, to a degree.The book preserves a series of six lectures held a few years after World War 2, bookended by introductory and concluding chapters.
By the time the lectures were repeated, the Korean War was underway, and the French empire in Southeast Asia was crumbling in the face of a peasant insurgency, also aligned with the communists.
And it is bittersweet to read his confidence that a democracy could not engage in a preventive war.At times while reading this, I felt it should be added to my short list of books every person should read to understand the U.S., alongside the state papers, the Federalist, two of Lincoln’s immortal speeches, and the observations of non-Americans such as de Tocqueville and Lord Bryce.
