https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/397861.The_Dark
It reminded me of The Fog with the way he wrote some of the epic horror scenes, sheer awe ispiring macabre, but with this book there were many more such scenes.
Startingout with a terrific opening scene, armed with the original premise of evil as a tangible psychic force, the story takes the readers on a really dark (pun intended) scary journey.
What Herbert really excelled with here were just these incredibly vivid terrifying memorable scenes of horror, really some of the best a genre reader can hope for, most impressive and imaginative.
This book is pure horror candy.
Herbert is a master at gore and he lays it on thick here along with plenty of unnatural sex acts.In the end it was like fudge, the first bite is great, the second and third just okay, and by the tenth you want to throw the thing away, but you have to finish it.
The ending was like, "I've written enough now."This edition from Centipede Press also had a story, a Hallowe'en spooker that was good and an interview where Herbert wishes he would be remembered for a book about a dog, which he won't.
The dark and the fog are very similar. A fog turns everybody crazy as does the dark. I think the fog is a better book but they are both worth a read.
Now in the case of horror - its the fact the characters, places and events all remind me of the world around me (or at least of the 80s when I was growing up) rather than just another location a blockbuster story uses to destroy as a bit of time filler (come on we have all seen those movies who to make a point trash a European city or two).So what of this book - it is from the phase where horror was full on almost tangible - yes Herbert can be visceral and graphic but also subtle and menacing and this book to me captures both aspects of his writing.Now a little back ground here - I first read Herbert as I started to explore outside science fiction and found horror, now at the time horror or at least those books on the second hand markets were all gaudy eye grabbing extremes which when you read then often offered little extra.However James Herbert offered something different, yes there were so truly graphic scenes but there was as story there, characters you could invest in and events you just had to read to the end of to see what happened.
Really good read. Great premise and characters. Got me scared a couple of Times real good plus one nasty nightmare:D Nice take on zombies. Recommend it to fans of the genre. For me 5 stars.
"The Dark" is the first novel in a long time to tap into one of my childhood fears and actually made me start at some of the sounds my house makes at night (though I'm pretty sure those sounds were from the ice maker!)This novel grabbed my attention fairly quickly and changed pace just enough to keep me interested, yet not so rapidly that I ceased to care.
in fact, all of these elements came into play at some point and blended quite nicely.
A good, solid read, with a few of Herbert's trademark tableaux of grue.
The characterization is good, the pseudoscience enjoyably pulpy (we're talking '50's b-movie here), and the tension palpable.
The ending is disappointing and pat, but other than the last ten pages, a good read.Note: The gender politics are odd, as this is firmly a book of it's time, but it never quite indulges the sexism that was prevalent in splatterpunk a few years later.
However, there are a few scenes of gore that are still disturbing now.
Those who prefer quiet horror, as well as those weak of stomach, need not apply.
This has to be one of the creepiest books I've read.
The book starts with a mass suicide/murder of a group of people in house.
The story goes on to be basically about the battle between good and evil that all people face, just with a more paranormal scary twist.The idea in the book as good and evil being an energy force that can be controlled is an interesting one that raises many questions as you progress through the book.
Can people be that easily influenced?
It certainly made me a turn a few lights on in the house as I was reading it.
Well Damn, where do I even begin?!?
This Author was recommended to me by another Fabulous Author Mr. Tim O'Rourke & I owe him a huge thank you for that!!
I was gripping my Kindle wanting desperately to read on but afraid to at the same time, scared of what was to come.
I never saw the end coming!!!
I look foward to reading much more from this Author & fully intend to invest in some Damn good nitelights Lol Peaceful sleep is but a dream tonight, this one will stick with me for awhile *shivers*
An absolutely BRILLIANT book ! What a story ! And what a twist ! Completely took me by surprise! Herbert at his best here !!
This is the book that sparked my creative writing journey, and I've since remained a devout fan of Herbert's titles.
The amount of research that goes into each story is impressive, and the psychological/scientific aspects offer a certain realism that leave us thinking, "What if ...?"I've heard that James Herbert was known to chuckle at horror (as many fans of the genre can probably resonate with) and parts of his writing definitely show glimmers of a warped sense of humour.
Probably not, although my connection to it ensures that it will remain a firm favourite.
James Herbert's The Dark is a creepy horror novel that is unfortunately mired by a lackluster ending.
The novel contains some truly creepy scenes and setpieces.
The entire novel builds up the air of desolation and makes the reader feel that there will be no end to the problem in the book, what makes the ending feel cheap is that the problem is resolved within a mere few pages.
Overall I liked the novel even with the cheap ending.
If you're looking for a solid horror/thriller book James Herbert's The Dark will fit the bill.
The Dark is my fourth favourite James Herbert novel after The Rats, Lair and The Fog. Very similar to The Fog (evil force sends people barmy and evil), but also rather different in its own way, The Dark is the ideal book with which to curl up on a cold winter's evening.
For me, the wonderful highlight of my 1980 reading pursuits!Further to my previous comments about The Dark, I don't know what happened after that book, but all his subsequent titles didn't seem to have quite the same heart-stopping magic.
I'm loving the digital re-releases of Herbert's books and they mainly stand the test of time. This is about a horrific mass murder suicide that seems to bind the evil energy of the participants which then starts to spread in the dark, taking more lives and building into a presence of pure evil. This is definitely horror with a number of scenes I had to skip over because I was reading before bed, but it's certainly a page turner with massive body count.
One of the freakiest books i have ever read. I really couldnt put it down because i was scared out my wits. Read in record time as i couldnt turn my light off before i knew how it ended. Must re-read to see if it has the same effect.
James Herbert's books are some of the creepiest I've ever read, and not because of the dangerous entity featured but because of the way the society within the story reacts to the threat. The Dark is no exception and Herbert exceeds at psychological terror and sinister elements.
I think I’ve read enough James Herbert to have a valid opinion.
Like shit, it’s the same as all James Herbert’s trite but readable junk.
Interspersed amongst a boring narrative of cliched, moralistic heroes is an intricate montage of horrible violence, all of which vary in enjoyment.
The only things that surprised me were its unnecessary length - (his books are generally short) - and the lack of sex.
In short The Dark is a decent book.
This was better than the last Herbert book I read - The Secret of Crickley Hall - but it was not as good as his best stuff.
A gripping novel that will chill you to the bone.When Bishop goes to Beechwood house to investigate 
Throughout the book from beginning to end, it's filled with gore, bloodshed and massacre.
It brings the controvsial "debate" in whether whatever causes the bloodshed is based on scientific meaning or some sort of unknown forces that are trying to get rid of the human or at least the physical part of mankind.To be honest at the beginning I thought the book was really good.
I guess you can say I just lost interest and just finished reading it because I hate starting a book and not finishing it.
Anyway, I would recommend this book to people who like to read about paranormal horror.
What's that odd smell? It keeps following me. Is it the smelly people on the bus on my way to and from work? But, I can smell it sat at my desk at work. And at home. On the sofa. In bed. Is it me?! I've just finished this vulgar little Herbert romp. Dirty little book, 35 year old yellowing pages, complete with mildew. THATS the smell!! The Dark has been tickling my senses all along. How gross. How fitting. :)
Well...I finished this book in about 8 hours! i was engrossed! Couldnt put it down. I really enjoyed it although i dont think the ending was as perfectly written as the rest of the book. Would certainly recommend it to someone...infact my aunty has already pinched it!
Don't read before going to sleep like I did. Scary. Recommended.
This book is about an evil that is started from one man and his followers through their death.
They start this evil called the dark and as it spreads it is easy to see that everyone has the dark inside of them, it just needs a little coaxing to come out.
It begins in a house, then a street, and then it starts to spread even further through London.
Every time the sun goes down the darkness spreads even further and it starts to look like there is no hope against it.I absolutely loved this book.
Would recommend this book to anyone that enjoys Stephen King.
Alright so I've read maybe three or four or more books from Herbert now.
I see his impact on horror fiction from the late 70's and through the 80's until now.
I decided to read this one next as it seemed like quite a big deep horror read, one of his which really went all out with the shocks and terror as far as I could tell from some reviews and more.
It is a good read, and considering when it was first published stands quite well today.
A good book but maybe not so surprising by the standards of today.
I decided to finally give up on this book I've been trying to finish it for over a year and it's just not pulling me in like you want books to. Also some of the vivid imagery is very very disturbing and I did not like that. Don't get me wrong I do like some horror books, but this one just was too gruesome in certain scenes in the book. I'm sure other people who like those types of books they will love it.
It came like a malignant shadow with seductive promises of power. And somewhere in the night...a small girl smiled as her mother burned...Asylum inmates slaughtered their attendants...in slimy tunnels once-human creatures gathered. Madness raged as the lights began to fade and humanity was attacked by an ancient, unstoppable evil.
James Herbert is a truly scary writer with an imagination that should drive him insane, but instead, it lets him present stories like this to make even the most 'macho' man check under his bed before turning out the light....
It was so good... til it wasnt. The ending was so flat and boring. It was unexplained and tidy. Too tidy. The reader shouldnt always get a happy ever after.Would have been a five but the ending was THAT dissapointing...
I'm not a fan of giving up on a book, but I've been dragging with this one and I don't know that I want to keep reading. I'm almost 2/3 of the way in and it just really doesn't have my interest. No judgement on fans of the book. Just not my cup of tea.
I think this is Herbert's best book, and they even made a solid movie out of it that I liked. Great atmosphere.
