https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4788279-an-appeal-to-the-toiling-oppressed-exhausted-peoples-of-europe
Trotsky had bars.
However, the climactic document presented here, "I Stake My Life!", written during the Moscow Show trials in 1937, shows his clear limitations as a political commentator.
Having spent his life building the USSR, Trotsky is unable to defend himself from the accusations against the Old Bolsheviks except through refuting the sham evidence that is presented in these trials.
I suppose though, having lived and died an unabashed Marxist, it would be beyond Trotsky to admit the deficiencies of his political ideology in general, and far easier for his own conscience to blame everything on Stalin's gangsterization of the Soviet state.
Today this class struggle is pretty much ignored by the western consumerist society who watches revolutions live on TV, which is busy exposing its inner self on social websites or by having wet dreams every time Apple releases a new toy - of course made by desperate Chinese workers or when a famous fashion brand releases a new collection which uses cotton picked up by poor sods from India paid with 5 cents per day!
Yay!
Wonderful: a nice collection of Trotsky's speeches, in chronological order, which illustrate his evolving ideas and ticking down to the end of his life in Mexico.
This book will be interesting for social political history lovers. Unfortunately it doesn't come with any analysis so don't read it unless you have a solid knowledge of the topic.
Trotsky was one of the leaders of the Marxist Revolution, one of its leading advocates and occupied a leading position in the Soviet Union until he split with Stalin over his authoritarian vision of the State.
You understand the excitement and fear of being caught up in a world historical cataclysm in which anything could happen next and you are witness to a new world order coming into being.
As you read this book you can't help but wonder what if Trotsky had managed to take power and implement his vision for the Soviet Union instead of Stalin?
“It’s the generals, bankers, czars, and landlords who need the war.
They increase their power, their strength, their wealth, by war.
They turn the people’s blood into their master’s gold.”He made a few good points, and I’d like to read more about Russian history.
Trotsky did a lot of ranting throughout this book, and a lot of name dropping to the point where I had no clue who he was accusing of what half the time.I finally realised the link between socialism and communism though, and there’s a few good points made throughout this book.
It’s a strong 3/5 from me, but no higher.
A good selection of Trotsky speeches that allows a glimpse on how the public engagements of one of the most important figures of the ussr panned out his own destiny
Guess I'm still not a Trot \_(ツ)_/
Guess I'm still not a Trot ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
Great Book depicting the evils of Capitalism and Stalinism as well as the optimism of Leon Trotsky and the benefits for mankind of real Marxist Communism.
An Appeal to the Toiling, Oppressed & Exhausted Peoples of Europe by Leon Trotsky is part of Penguin Book's Great Ideas series.
I wonder what criteria the editors of the series used to select the nineteen excerpts from speeches, manifestos, essays and books that are included in this thin volume (9 from the revolution, 8 from while in power and 2 from exile).
(One bibliography I consulted contained an astounding 1799 pages of materials by and about him.) Regardless of the potential debate over which pieces were chosen and why, I think the editors did a good job of capturing the essence of Trotsky's ideas and political philosophy.
Despite the utter ruin of the revolutionary experiment, Trotsky's ideas and ideals live on.
Mostly taken from Leon Trotsky Speaks, these essays convinced me that a biography of Trotsky needs to be on my to-be-read shelf.Zimmerwald Manifesto Against the War On the Eve of a Revolution Two Faces – Internal Forces of the Russian RevolutionThe Growing Conflict War or Peace?
The Overthrow of the Provisional GovernmentWalkout of the Mensheviks and Socialist RevolutionariesOn the Arrest of Socialist Ministers The Organization of Power For Peace – Against Secret Diplomacy!Appeal to the Toiling, Oppressed, and Exhausted Peoples of Europe A Word to the Russian Workers and Peasants on Our Friends and Enemies, and How to Preserve and Strengthen the Soviet Republic Lenin Wounded I Stake My Life!
A short read.The speeches and letters discuss various themes:## SovereigntyEach nation is sovereign and its right to rule within its own borders is inviolable.## InternationalismThe relationship between the proletarians of Europe is stronger than class relationships within countries.
The proletarian revolution should be encouraged everywhere.## Class StruggleWhen reading of history, class warfare is the dominant force.## PeaceWWI serves only the interests of the rulers and bourgeois.
The proletarians of all countries should lay down arms and secure peace and bread to their populations.## Anti-TsarThe tsar is an illegitimate ruler.## Anti-BourgeoisieThe bourgeoisie is rent-seeking on the backs of the proletarians.
This collection of Trotsky's speeches and articles made for interesting reading (and topical too as Corbyn wins the Labour leadership again). Trotsky is a compelling rhetorician but without his later exile I can see him going on to be a pretty irredeemable totalitarian himself; the early speeches are full of reasons to ban and/or murder political rivals...As a historical document it was fascinating and its always interesting to see what the more practical realities are for individuals trying to live by broad idealist ideologies.
What a fantastic collection of Trotsky's speeches and letters - concise, certainly, and not exactly comprehensive but a truly representative sample of his thought nonetheless. Primarily concerning itself with the revolutionary period and his speeches in favour of the establishment of the Soviet State, there are a further three texts from later periods: one speech [delivered by proxy] from 1937 decrying the Stalinist purges and two diary entries, of sorts, from Mexico in early 1940 before his assassination.
At times prophetic, this little book charts the life of the author from the appeal of the title speech up to deathbed swansong. Even if the ideas at times seem muddled together, one gets the sense of a great thinker who gave everything only to watch the communist dream hijacked by the Stalinist nightmare betrayal. A bittersweet book, especially thought provoking today given the volatile financial climate and political extremism rising across the globe.
If ever anyone 'maintained the rage', it was Trotsky. I stumbled onto this book, and never having read any of his speeches or writings, thought I would give it a go. Trotsky's rage against the international ruling classes and the Stalinist traitors in the USSR is palpable, and it's still a powerful read today. I'd like to see him and Putin in a stand off...
Even if you disagree with a person's politics, there are some that are just born for the role; and Trotsky certainly fits that description. He maintained his belief in Marxism right to the end of his life, and this collection of his speeches and articles demonstrates that the fire in his belly burned to the end too.
Good read taking the reader through the the Russian revolution ... Obviously from the point of view of the Soviets ... Right up to Trotsky's rather sad end ... Excellent use of original material ... Interesting to refer back to ... Length of the book made it easily readable and the layout easily accessible ...
This book is made up of short articles and speeches by Leon Trotsky. The book is chronologically structured which results in an overarching narrative of Trotsky's life and thinking through his own words.
Passionate and dignified. Unrepentant in his hope for humanity, its creativity and yearning for freedom even in the face of despotic terror.
