https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56034.The_French_Lieutenant_s_Woman
Naturally, Charles finds himself falling for her despite warnings from a local doctor that Sarah is ‘addicted to melancholia’ and may only be interested in spreading her misery around.At first, this seems like it’s going to be a pretty standard Victorian-era tragic romance.
Or that none of them are.While I liked the writing and the way that Fowles played with the structure of a traditional novel, the problem for me is that I was so unsure about Sarah and Charles that I couldn’t ever really get engaged with them emotionally.

The language, metaphors, and focus of the book all come from the 1960s, and the actions of the characters are all given the lens of the highly visible author- who is in fact one of the major characters of the book (much in the style of Thackeray, though more personally done here, I think).The plot itself starts off as a flimsy Victorian melodrama, if one were to remove everything but the bare skeletons of the action from it: boy meets girl, boy is engaged to girl, boy meets mysterious amazing girl, boy suffers crisis of love, moral dilemmas abound...
And they seem to me crueller than the cruellest heathens, stupider than the stupidest animals.”The French Lieutenant's Woman is a baffling book.
I wonder why no one has blurbed it with “The French Lieutenant's Woman, proudly baffling people since 1969” yet.
You wouldn't feel as stupid if it showed to care, and then it would amuse no one.Because The French Lieutenant's Woman is a microcosm on its own.
It needs nothing and no one, and no matter how many times the God of this world will address you, reader, because the truth is that to it, to Him, you do not exist.
“I am infinitely strange to myself.” ― John Fowles, The French Lieutenant's WomanThe reason I am drawn to literature, to art, to books considered to be classics, is to watch some middle-aged, bearded man put on a pair of (excuse the flamboyant analogy) skates and suddenly pitch himself into the center of the ring and pull off a triple Salchow.
He (re)creates a Victorian period novel and then deconstructs, dissects and parodies it while we watch.
'The French Lieutenant's Woman' is a work of genius and a book that teased and challenged me on almost every page as I read it.
¿Puede uno beber sus páginas a sorbos, en una lluviosa tarde de invierno?
A veces, uno abandona la última página de un libro enamorado de sus protagonistas; otras veces, con la sensación de haber perdido el tiempo; y pocas, con un sabor entre amargo y dulce.
En este caso, ni me he enamorado de sus protagonistas ni he tenido la sensación de haber perdido el tiempo y mucho menos un sabor agridulce al terminar la historia.
Y, aun así, sé que esta historia me acompañara por mucho tiempo y que, tal vez, recuerde a Charles con una sonrisa y me imagine un futuro de libertad para su alma...
Fowles'ın şimdiye kadar okuduğum eserleri içinde en sevdiğim açıkçası "Büyücü".
Fakat bu kitabında çok sarsıcı bir etkisi oldu üzerinde.
Kendi kendime Victoryen Dönemi içerisinde postmadambovaryci bir kitap okuduğumu sanıyordum ve Sarah karakterini de Madam Bovary'e bir alternatif olarak önemli görüyordum.
Ancak Fowles'ın romancı olarak her zaman nüfuzunu hissettirerek kitabı yazması, ancak bir süre sonra romancının yarıtanrıcı rolünü oynamayı başaramayıp, kontrolün kaleminden çıkması; karakterlerin kendi istedikleri hayatları yaşaması beni kaba tabiriyle durur etti.
Kitap bu özelliği ile deneysel bir yazım tarzına sahip, modern romancılık içinde eşsiz bir yere konumlandırılabilir.
Üzerinde fazlaca düşünme gereksimini doğurtuyor.Kitabın biçimsel ve anlatısal özellikleri dışında, çok ciddi bir tarihi tarafı da bulunmakta.
While I am intrigued by how writers create stories, I find it hard to see truth in fiction wherein the writer makes contemporary comments and otherwise reminds me that he made the whole thing up.
On the other hand, I didn't like his The Book of Laughter and Forgetting because he overly cogitates on his thought processes in creating the related stories as he is in the process of telling them.To me, many novels of this ilk amount to a form of intellectual "dick-measuring" exercises, whereby one author gets to show the others how smart, cute and clever he can be.
John Fowles invites you into an experiment he is conducting himself, & stick with it you must: the great puppeteer takes a story 100 years old, writes his characters and HIMSELF into the plot, right smack in the middle of Darwinian enlightenment and the empty floral vase that is Victorian Europe.
There is a deep mourning for the loss of individuality felt by the characters that's the true main theme: the "tension between lust and renunciation." [216] Ah, the naked wrist!The work is invigorating, suffused by the modern master's touch.
He breaks the armor plates set up by the Wuthering Heights of yesteryear, by the demonic texts of Hawthorne--the book seeks an ending like the reader seeks it.
(Or was the gap too long for you to remember that the subject of that sentence was some vague and generalised ‘qualms’?) Authors are Gods – if they choose they can write about things that quite simply they could never know the first thing about: how it feels to be that woman standing over there in her billowing cape blowing out against the wind, what it means to be dead and yet to not expect judgement, what the rush of power is like in having just created an entire universe with all time and all space and all actions that shall ever take place therein laid bare and translucent before one.
The writer slides a blank sheet of paper into his typewriter.
He wants to start writing but something is stopping him.
And he most definitely wants to be a serious writer.
She'd be absolutely perfect as…as… Hmmm, I haven't given her a name yet."(1) Suddenly, the writer turns around, his back to the typewriter.
I'm going to write about this woman, and she's going to be this Victorian lass.
It's actually 2010."Well, the John Fowles in your mind hasn't yet, has he?
Mwa ha ha ha ha(2)(1) Of course, he didn't really think that.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book!
The story wasn't what I expected it to be at all.
I expected the story to be similar to Madame Bovary and the writing style of the author to be more Victorian, seeing as the story was set in that era, but it's actually quite modern.
He writes very intelligently and although he plays the role of narrator in the 19th Century, his perception is that of a 20th Century writer, which makes the book even more interesting.
He also includes his opinions on 19th Century society which I believe enrich the story.
(There is one part of the book where Charles is sleeping on a train, and a stranger watches him in a much perversely violating way, which gives me the gut feeling Fowles may admit to have done the same.)Unforgettably, in just the second chapter there is a notable scene where we see Sarah for the first time.
It is the moment we see Sarah for the first time, and without the narrator describing specific physical features, he allows the reader to envision her spirit with utter clarity, with just the ghost of her face staring back at us, just hovering there, and of course there is the natural sadness of it all.
Hoy día se olvida a menudo que siempre fue la clase revolucionaria por excelencia; vemos en ella sólo lo que tiene de masa, a la burguesía como reducto de la reacción a lo largo y a lo ancho del mundo, siempre egoísta y conformista.
Todo esto encontraréis en la novela, pero por supuesto leeréis también un bello romance de esos apasionados e imposibles tan propios de aquel período, aunque la perspectiva sea más actual, relatado con una ironía propia de la Elliot de Middlemarch, con personajes muy de la época -la mala dickensiana, pícaros, esos personajes bonachones y encantadores, la burguesía "egoísta y conformista"- aunque también están los protagonistas principales de un corte más complejo que el de aquellas historias, destacando el papel de la protagonista femenina, desconcertante.
Beklentileriniz nedir ne ararsınız bilemem ama Fowles i benim gibi Büyücü sonrası okumaya devam ediyorsanız, hayranlıktan ağzınız açık kalıp sonunda alkış tutmak isteyebilirsiniz. Bana öyle oldu ordan biliyorum.Okuyunuz efenim!
This alone firms up my belief that this book deserves its inclusion in the Time 100 Best Novels of the 20th Century and its seemingly permanent inclusion in the 1001 Books You Must Read Before You Die.Sarah Woodruff is the mysterious woman who is so beautiful men who meet her could not resist her charm.
However, the twist in the end still gives some question of whether Sarah will actually be finally happy.
Fowles seems to want his readers to choose for themselves their preferred ending and settle among themselves the twists that he presents towards the end.One of the more stylish books that I've read.
Hem farklı roman okuması ve hem de roman yazımı tekniği ile üzerinde biraz düşündüren ve entelektüel birikime katkı da bulunan bir eser olduğunu düşünüyorum.
What really makes the book, though, is the postmodern narrative voice which inserts itself into the story with the mindset and cultural baggage of 1969: not just a retrospective view of Victorian game-changer thinkers such as Freud, Marx and Darwin but also replete with the theoretical stance of Barthes who is name-checked and his compatriots.
Fantastic book, and not at all what I expected.
I was expecting a contemporary Victorian novel - perhaps a "Scarlett Letter" written in the 1880s.
Imagine my surprise upon finding out that, in fact, its this weird, fascinating, post-modern version of a Victorian novel written in the 1960s.
After his first unexpected intrusion into the story, I worried that I might hate it and sort of (ineffectively) shushed him, hoping it might not happen again.
That Sarah is a tricky one - I admit I only half understood her motivations by the end of the book.
Check it out if you haven't - it's a lovely book.
Aslında sıra bana kalsa Koleksiyoncu, Büyücü ve Fransız Teğmen’in Kadını olarak planlardım okumamı -ki zaten öyle niyetlenmiştim- ama grupta Mart ayı okuması için seçilince planımı birazcık değiştirme yoluna gittim.Yazar Viktorya Dönemi’de kurguladığı bu romanı gerek o dönemin insan tiplerini ve onların karakteristik özelliklerini ve gerekse de toplumun genel olarak durumunu -kendisi o dönemde yaşamamış olsa da- çok güzel yansıtmış.
Ertesi günün de tatil olmasını fırsat bilerek tek oturusta bitirmekten büyük keyif aldım.Kitap ile ilgili ayrıntılı bir inceleme yazmayı düşünüyorum ama şimdi bunu yapamayacağım için genel bir giriş şeklinde yazıp burada noktalı virgül koyuyorum;
That's his genius, dammit, he snuck up on me.The other stuff that blows my mind are sort of complicated and totally spoilers, so I won't go into all of it here because that would be jerkface of me.
I just wonder how the ending will come across.So the non-spoiler-y things that I can talk about are all the same sorts of nerdy stuff that attracted me to The Magus specifically.
All cool stuff because, of course, he was exactly right about all of it.Sometimes, in some cathedral or art gallery, he would for a moment dream Sarah beside him.
The book is set in the 1860s, but Fowles writes it explicitly from a 1960s perspective, commenting on aspects of life at the time, and then veers off to talk about the writing of the story itself and the different ways it could possibly end.It is an unusual choice, and in that sense it’s interesting, though in this day of author blogs, a “behind the scenes” look at the author’s process isn’t the novelty it may have been in pre-Internet days.
I know that I read this one many years ago but couldn't remember very much about it.
I appreciated it more with this second reading many years later.
Charles Smithson, a man torn between his future marriage and duty to Ernestina and his lust for the more earthy and forbidden Sarah Woodruff, the French Lieutenants Woman.
Poor Charles torn between his wallet, position and his heart.
When reading this novel I felt more empathy towards Charles than with Sarah, she seemed more removed from the reader, more enigmatic in her motives, thoughts and deeds.For this reader however it was Mrs Poultenay, on the fast track to reach the pearly gates who stole the show.
4,5. He disfrutado mucho de esta lectura. El mérito lo tiene Fowles, que ha jugado conmigo, se ha reído de sus personajes pero también los ha perfilado de manera impecable, me ha enseñado una época, la victoriana, y toda su hipocresía y sus formalismos. Protagonistas complejos. Una narración con detalle, con ironía, con humor y con pasión.Ahora me falta ver la película (aunque no es una adaptación total de la novela).Recomendadísima. Abstenerse todos aquellos que no disfruten con la ironía.
büyücü'den sonra en çok merak ettiğim romanı buydu fowles'un. viktorya dönemi ingilteresini tüm iki yüzlülüğüyle anlatırken bir aşk hikâyesini kuruyor. bunu da okura anlatarak yapıyor, hem tanrı anlatıcı oluyor, hem de postmodern romanlardaki gibi araya girip okurla konuşuyor, açıklamalar yapıyor... romanın sonu da bambaşka bir yaratıcılık örneği.kurgu ve anlatım olarak büyücü'den çok daha ileride ama viktorya dönemi ingilteresi ne sıkıcıymış be kardeşim :/bu arada o dönemde yaşamış darwin ve marks'ın adı bol bol geçiyor romanda :)
At times this hampers his style, confining himself within such narrow paramters is the only fault I find, and, even then he breaks free with such startling regularlity that the only problem is the jarring realization that you have not been reading Dickens, but Fowles the whole time.His meditations on the creative process continue here, as do his criticisms of the idle rich and the foolish hobgoblin of "duty" that so haunts young men trying to do "right" in the world.
Perhaps I'm wrong, perhaps he's standard reading and I just came from ill-informed systems.Or perhaps I should come home, armed with the books, and a box of t-shirts.
I know this book is supposed to be all quirky post-modern/Victorian and that lots of people think it's amazing.
While I recognize the merit/intelligence of said exposition, I guess I just really wanted a good, straight-forward fiction and not a lesson on the dichotomies of the Victorian psyche or the sly referneces to god, destiny, the power of the author.
I LIKED the story, I really did, but a lot of times, the exposition and extranneous stuff sorted of bogged me down.
I guess I just wanted to be taken away by the story and not blown away by the technique.
Il romanziere resta sempre un dio, dal momento che crea (neanche il più aleatorio dei moderni romanzi d’avanguardia è riuscito a sopprimere completamente il suo autore); ciò che è cambiato è che non siamo più gli déi dell’immagine vittoriana, onniscienti e sentenziosi; ma déi secondo una nuova immagine teologica, e il nostro principio fondamentale è la libertà, non l’autorità.  Il titolo “La donna del tenente francese” ha sempre avuto su di me un forte potere evocativo legato al ricordo infant
Sulla base di queste poche informazioni avevo costruito una serie di aspettative, anzi direi di “certezze”: con quel titolo la trama non poteva che raccontare di forti passioni, di un amore contrastato tra un ricco gentiluomo e una giovane donna di bassa estrazione sociale e con un passato torbido, il tutto magistralmente incorniciato in epoca vittoriana.
Guida d’eccezione in questo tour è John Fowles, nel senso che spesso lo stesso autore si intromette e spiega perché un certo personaggio non può che avere quei sentimenti oppure ci illustra quali potrebbero essere delle scelte alternative ma sempre abbastanza coerenti con la mentalità vittoriana.
It's hyper-aware of itself - its narrator, coming at you from the presentish day, keeps pointing out his own Victorian cliches as he writes them, and he makes it clear that he's perfectly willing to go back and change his own story.
Tess of the D'Urberbilles seems to be the main touchstone here, and it feels a little like Tess as written by Alec (in the book, her (view spoiler)[rapist (hide spoiler)]) - so I nursed a theory that the whole thing would turn out to be Charles's criminal defense.
Part Victorian melodrama, part sociological study; I felt like the author was looking at the characters from under a microscope.
The story has three main characters: Charles is a quintessential Victorian aristocratic dilettante, duty dictates his every move; Ernestina is his wealthy but vapid fiancée whose dowry is tainted by that dirty word, “Trade”; and Sarah is a mentally unbalanced (or forward thinking suffragette, you choose) young woman reveling in her disgrace and the tizzy fits this causes her uptight employer, who takes her on as a charity case.
