https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10718.Something_Happened
I fully believe that 99% of readers will want to yell "Let Me Out Of This Man's Skull!" within the first hundred pages because it is such a cramped and uncomfortable place to be in.However, for the other 1% let me give two reasons for why I liked the book.
Bob is intimidated by the gym teacher because he himself wasn't very good at sports.
He feels his son is right not to enjoy gym because he himself didn't.
He wants to get his way because that proves he is a more powerful man than the gym teacher.
Joseph Heller is one of my favorite authors, with CATCH-22 perhaps being my favorite novel of all time, and yet, it took my over two decades to make my way to SOMETHING HAPPENED.
A brilliant office satire, as well as a scathing critique of the unique upper class American man that likely plunged our country into the quagmire we now find ourselves in, this novel's take is completely different than CATCH-22 when it comes to uncovering dark truths.
This book will not make you feel good about the American man, but who cares?
"Nullifying a Whole Culture"To the extent that Slocum is typical of his generation, “I cannot nullify a whole culture, an environment, an epoch, a past (especially when it’s my own past and environment as well as [my daughter’s], and I myself am such a large part of hers).”Slocum speculates, “I know I must have done some horribly damaging things to her when she was little, but I can’t remember what those things were or when I did them.”"All My Fault"Paradoxically, he says, “I can’t believe it was all my fault.”A clue to Slocum’s plight lies in the fact that he thinks his 80 year old mother said to him, on her deathbed, that “You’re no good.
Pues sí, efectivamente, este Joseph Heller es el mismo que escribió “Catch-22”, esa celebérrima novela calificada por muchos como un clásico moderno.
No es fácil enfrentarse a sí mismo con la sinceridad con la que Slocum lo hace (dicen las malas lenguas que Slocum y Heller tienen más de un punto en común), no es sencillo vivir tan a disgusto consigo mismo, ser tan infeliz y estar presente en el día a día de su hijo, al que siente como si fuera una prolongación de sí mismo, y que parece multiplicar hasta el infinito todos sus miedos y debilidades.Al final, sí, algo pasa y, claro está, nada bueno.
We don't hear much about his time at war, other than his hearty appetite for prostitutes, but upon his return, he finds himself working for a company (whose business is hilariously and purposefully vague), and from when the novel begins to its ending, we realize too late that something has happened; that Slocum's attempts at material happiness have been mere distractions, and slowly, as he looks back constantly at his withering past, does he see the life he could have, should have, led.
A scathing howl of rage and despair from the school of Céline, Bernhard, and Miller.
Your repugnant host is WASPish Republican lower executive Bob Slocum, tunnelling—in a breathtakingly lucid stream of hypnotic and explosive bomb-strength paragraphs—into the fieriest hells of middle-class melancholia with the savage spadework of William Kohler from Gass’s The Tunnel.
The novel is initially comic, until the vile pre-war attitudes of Slocum, an openly misogynistic, racist, and misanthropic creep with a suspiciously spicy sex life, whose open loathing of his autistic son, his wife and daughter, eventually brings you to howling pitches of rage, regardless of however we might empathise with his existential kvetching.
I realized pretty early on that the method that Heller uses is that he pulls us in and lets us identify readily with the protagonist - little things of recognition: "I'm also like that, I shy away from confrontation in those circumstances", "I find it hard to indulge people like those", "I don't like those social events either" - and then he slowly pulls the rug out from under us, or opens a door we did not know was there and had we known, would have preferred closed.I have never felt only sadness at the death of a friend or relative or the departure to a faraway place of someone I like, or even perhaps love.
To Bob, everything is about him, so his son, the ray of hope in his life [so you can figure out what happens to him— but you can’t say this book is about plot anyway; it’s about the experience of Bob’s head] must survive.) Heller is quite brilliant, because towards the end, I was thinking, ‘Well, if nothing else, at least he’s being honest about how he feels.
I would have abandoned this book at the first 20 pages, if not for that kind soul who gifted it and the lingering memories of Catch-22.
In hindsight, I should have moved on.You are on a crowded bus, the journey is tedious, you don't how long it is gonna take to reach your destination, no place to even stand properly, sweat, irritation, all kind of bad smells.
You can get off at the next stop and forego the journey, but you don't.
His daughter's unhappy.
He keeps on talking about his urge to kick his daughter at her ankles.
"More like Nothing Happened," I've heard it quipped, which misses the entire point. Where Catch-22's Yossarian was essentially likeable, Heller doesn't give you that easy out with Bob Slocum.From Vonnegut's review in the New York Times (1974): "Is this book any good? Yes. It is splendidly put together and hypnotic to read. It is as clear and hard-edged as a cut diamond. [...] This is black humor indeed--with the humor removed."
The storyline reminds me of a story I heard about Joseph Heller, known more for the modern classic Catch-22.He was at a cocktail party in Connecticut and someone pointed out a hedge fund manager and remarked that, "He makes more in a year than you ever made for writing Catch-22."Heller replied, "Yeah, but I have something he'll never have."His host said, "Really? What's that?""Enough."
This is the sad story about Bob Slocum: business man, husband and father.
Written in 1st person, largely inside the mind of Slocum, we see true unhappiness as he pines for a better career, has unsatisfying affairs with secretaries and office workers, and constantly wishes for a better family and better life.
The drive of this tell-all confessional of Slocum's, is the curiosity as to which, of all his unhappy situations, will be the most destructive.
I thought, as I neared the end, that Heller might not give us one single incident, but he does, and it's a good one.
A truly excellent novel from the author of Catch 22.
Written with the same satiric style, this novel follows the rather tedious life of Bob Slocum.
Nothing much happens until the end of this 600 page novel, and we simply listen to Slocum's monologue about his life.
The book is partially a product of its time but most of the characters are just awful people.(view spoiler)[ I spent much of the book waiting for the "Something to happen, and wrongly assumed that something was Bob's new job.
I won't say anything more, but the ending truly caught me by surprise  (hide spoiler)]
In my opinion, this is Joseph Heller’s best novel, bar none.Something Happened is Mr. Heller’s second novel, published in 1974 and is thirteen years after his great first novel, Catch-22.The protagonist Bob Slocum, narrates the story in his stream of consciousness about his family, his childhood, and sexual escapades.
It’s a shame that his popularity just remains on his first novel.Yes, i guess it’s true but Something Happened has it’s own beauty that requires a second reading.
I don’t usually read books at the second time -for i have a lot to read- but if i have to pick up something (again), this would definitely be one.
I take my hat off to Mr. Heller, especially when he identifies many of our empty words and selfish tendencies in our interpersonal relationships.
(Dickens’ time is over Joseph!) But for a novel published in the 70s, it struck a chord about moral reform that few other books did at the time.
It is about the life we all lead today—and you will never be able to look at that life in the same way again.” This might be too grandiose of a statement (it is on the back of the book) but it’s in the right direction.
It's a bit like if you start a new diet and your stomach goes "I've had it with this shit, get a pizza in your bad self NOW!" Except artistic and benevolent in this case ;)While it's quite simple in its premise and execution, I think slightly differently about it each time I go back.
I know it feels that way sometimes and we know the best way to conquer fears is to address them head on, and so the reading of this book is like exhausting yourself on every daily fear you've ever had.
Let me preface this by saying that despite the single star rating, I think Joseph Heller is an amazing author.
Catch-22 is definitely one of the best books of all time, and technically Heller's writing is quite good in Something Happened.That said, I thoroughly disenjoyed this book.
It was actively unfun.
It took Joseph Heller about three times as long to say exactly what Steinbeck did in The Winter of Our Discontent -- and he said it less interestingly.
This story of unhappiness with the modern life probably would have worked quite well, including the surprise ending, as a short story.
read this book almost four years ago and it has stayed with me. you don't really want to identify with the main character because his life is a sordid, pathetic mess, but it creeps onto you anyway and by the end you feel sort of used and old and sad. or was that just me? there were moments of humor too, but what i remember most is the plethora of parentheticals, the theory on the whammy, and the despair. if you're expecting catch-22 this is not quite it. think american beauty, but less uplifting.
One=Star because I hate Bob Slocum. There. I feel better. Take that, Middle America!
Bob Slocum, the protagonist of Something Happened, is the prototypical successful modern man.
But to our dismay Bob Slocum is a man in the full throws of existential crisis.
For close to 600 pages, Bob Slocum screams out to us a plea for understanding, a plea perhaps predicated on the idea that if he can reach us, take us inside his reality, then maybe his alienation and loneliness will be alleviated.
This is not a fun novel and its rewards are to be found not in its humor (which is certainly there), but in our identification with and empathy for the main character.
A character, who, even with all his foibles and blemishes, is ultimately extremely sympathetic.
In the office, Slocum spends most of the time worrying about getting fired, though as he himself says, he works well, meets his targets, gets his bonuses regularly and is generally seen as a solid employee.
The organization could be seen as a machine whose path has been chartered a long time ago and which humming alone nicely, irrespective to the individual merits/demerits of the employees.In Slocum's past we see a young man (boy really), just out from the war, working in a small position at an office, trying to reconcile the madness of the war that he saw with the (so called) normal social life.
something happened to heller. could not understand him....
If you can get through it, please let me know, because you have more fortitude than I do.I should elaborate on how this book is depressing, because the book is also quite humorous.
What is depressing is not the narrator's unrelentingly dark humor, the lack of anything redeeming in his life, or his prospects for some sort of life change--it's that his life is so ordinary and so similar to many middle-class readers' lives, that if you are middle-class, work in an office, are married, or have children, you can't help but recognize at least some part of yourself in the narrator.
I just finished it and I feel like crap, for example.I love Heller, his quirkiness and his humor, and it's all in here by the truck load, but it's all very dark and it sticks with you, which is both good and bad.
The character's musings present the entirety of existence as being very pointless, at least in my point of view.So I feel pretty silly giving it such a low score, but I just can't really get excited something that becomes such a burden -- and I love some heavy books!
In the end, I'm glad I read this book and feel that it is important books like this are written.
Like life Ha ha.
Like an argument.
Like the chorus of a song.
Like sex.
Like going to work.
There's always a 5 star book ahead of you for you to fear being inferior to.The something that happens was foreshadowed long before, but it's no longer significant.
Early on, we are asked, what happened to that perfect child?
The one we start out as?
The one our children start out as?
Something happens to ruin the perfection and it's not clear what it is and when it does.
What is that something that happens to turn what was glorious into boring routine and sadistic games while we wait, terrified, to die?
I believe that Alan Ball used a lot of Heller's characterization in this novel to create Lester Burnham for American Beauty.
The novel's protagonist is, simply put, an ass.
You don't have to like him to become mesmerized (only word I can think of) by what he says and does and how he perceives everything and everybody with all filters turned off; it's like a snapshot of all of the very real, dark, horrific things that go on in all of our minds that we don't want to admit as we claw our way through each day.The novel is an ascerbic reflection on the despair that the mere pursuit of the decadent American Dream actually brings about.
The protagonist even knows what a facade it is, yet he continues to plod along pursuing it page after page after page.
The main character describes his pathetic life in minute details but does nothing to change the relationships he despises.
There is no plot, no real character development, and no climax that's meaningful.
The 'something' that happened, did so in the last three pages but since you couldn't relate to the main character, Bob Slocum, you couldn't feel for him at the end.
The attempt at climax and resolution so near the end lacked the brilliance of Steinback in its ability to hold you captive until the end.
The story lacked the style and skill that a writter like Heller should display.
I read this in high school sometime after reading Catch-22. I might have forgotten about it if not for reading stuff about Joseph Heller a few days ago on the anniversary of his death or birthday or something, and it reminded me how much this book depressed me and seemed so grown-up and terrible. Just ... TERRIBLE-sad.
The protagonist in Kurt Vonnegut's Slaughterhouse-Five is abducted by four-dimensional aliens who experience every moment of their life simultaneously; their literature consists of sets of tableaux, each of which describes a plain situation or a seemingly trivial event, but experienced all at once they "produce an image of life that is beautiful and surprising and deep." The common wisdom is that this refers to the novel Slaughterhouse-Five itself; I am beginning to suspect, however, that Vonnegut might have been inspired by the early works of his personal friend Joe Heller.Something Happened appeared five years after that.
Like most of Joseph Heller's later novels but unlike Catch-22, it is written in the first person by an unhappy father.
I gave up on book after about 20 pages.
I like Heller's style of writing, but this type of novel (probably relatively new at the time of writing) has now been way overdone.
It's the amoral, dispassionate, existential novel that casually drives home the depressing reality of life bereft of universals.
One is weighed down by the meaninglessness, hopelessness, listlessness, and flippantly debaucherous nature of life without some undergirding or direction.
They make me feel dirty and depressed, and since I'm familiar with the concept, I for one am not going to torture myself.
