https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/773864.Passion_s_Promise
Kezia Saint Martin poor-little-super-rich girl falls head over heels in love with ex-convict, prison-reformer-wannabe Lucas Johns who's just too sexy for his shirt, too sexy for his shirt, so sexy it hurts.I thought I'd be reading some juicy, fluffy romance but this book actually takes itself seriously.
Kezia has an existential crisis and wears mink.
People are out to get our crusader.
Will they succeed?
Will he survive to pretend to sneer at his brand new brown suede Gucci shoes another day?
And what about Ale-ale-jandro, Ale-ale-jandro?It's also very sexist and homophobic.
he calls her "Mama".
Was that a thing in the 70s?"MAMA"'Nuff said!
I like it. From the beginning till the middle.I hate it. From the middle till the end.The girl pictured in the novel is a girl that is kinda plin-plan actually...
Yes, I know that she has to protect herself but outright lying is just wrong.When she met Luke, she became a totally different person and it wasn't a good thing.
(view spoiler)[ Luke dies in prison after they revoke his parole.
(hide spoiler)] I thought this was a pretty dumb ending.
It felt forced, like he had to (view spoiler)[ die or the story wasn't going to work.
I also didn't like how we didn't know what Kezia was going to do.
It was an okay book but there were so many things that could have been done differently.
I am not big on romance novels but this book is unlike any romance novel I have ever read and will always be a favourite as well as being truly unforgettable!
Read this the second time and enjoyed it just as much
SPOILERS AHEAD : Kezia is just a spoiled rich person who hates her life without doing ANYTHING to change a single thing about it, and then she meets Luke, who wants to abolish the prison system from existence ( BTW murderers and rapers should all live freely with us in this one happy world, right?
). They fall in love ( in 2 days !) And she learns the meaning of life.
By that time, Kezia has turned into a crazy alcoholic person that spends all her days drinking at home.
not Steel's best by any means.
While I was intrigued by all the places the character went, I found this novel lacking depth.
She just travels from party to party, restaurant to restaurant and club to club for the first third of the book, possibly more, gathering information for "the column." I found the pairing of her and Johns to be unlikely in her elite set and while it was sweet in concept, I didn't find it believable.
the best part of this book is all the traveling and fashion that are mentioned and the way the main character parodies it and the materialistic set that "must have a pair of gucci" Other than that, it was a bore.
This is such a silly book! I could not feel any empathy regarding the woman. What a terrible problem! So rich! And the guy struggling with a program in Harlem, she never thought about helping to fund it? When she is in crisis, she goes shopping? Terrible! And why should “leftists” be against a movement to improve prisons? I like many of Danielle Steel books, even if she likes so much to describe the life of very rich people, but this one was too much for me.
Great author!This story disappointed me only because the ending was completely unexpected and not what I wanted for the characters. But in a sense it was an ending with a message we should all as humans incorporate in our own lives.
second time reading this. had been years back i first read it and didn't remember the story at all. i absolutely loved it!!
Interesting premise - will read more from this author.
Scadente privo di trama.
#295
i read this book so fast! i was so into it, the story is so good and danielle's style of writting is easy to read.
Finding the most amazing loveGreat weekend book to read, finding a love that you would go to the ends of the world to be with.
My very favourite book!!!!
"Se veía como si fuera una mujer joven que no tuviera ningún problema en el mundo.El maquillaje la ayudaba pero era más la forma en la que lo llevaba. Nunca mostraría lo que sentía como si tuviera que dejar que los demás pensaran que nunca había conocido un momento de tristeza. Sólo cepíllate el pelo, hazte un nudo elegante, empólvate la nariz, colócate una sonrisa en la cara y habla en voz pausada".  La historia es sencilla: una mujer de poco menos de 30 años perteneciente a la alta sociedad,
"Se veía como si fuera una mujer joven que no tuviera ningún problema en el mundo.El maquillaje la ayudaba pero era más la forma en la que lo llevaba.
Este tipo de libros son los que voy a terminar leyendo cuando sea una solterona de 40 años.Es tan cliché y romántico -y hasta trágico- que me sorprendió que me gustara.
En general lo califico como bueno, ni muy bueno pero tampoco pésimo; tiene buenos ratos sobre todo después de los primeros capítulos de arranque cuando el libro se va centrando más en la trama principal.
1 STARS"Smart, beautiful, and very rich, Kezia Saint Martin leads two lives: one as a glamorous socialite jetting between the poshest places in Europe and America; the other, under a false name, as a dicated journalist committed to justice and her profession.But the two worlds are pulling her apart, leaving her conflicted about her identity and the lies she tells to every man she meets.
Then she meets Lucas Johns, a bold, dynamic crusader for social change--and an ex-con.
These are great for those who like mild sex, unrealistic dramatic romances and grand plots.
I liked this book but it isn't my favorite one of hers.
It isn't my least favorite either.
This book took me a while to get into but once I did I was invested and cared about the characters.
The ending left a lot to be desired for me.
I hate it when there are unanswered questions at the end of a book unless it has sequel where they will be answered.
Over all this book is a great read but I couldn't give it a 5 due to what I stated above.
I hope she will like it a lot too.
Happy reading!
Passion's Promise by Danielle SteelLots of action and different lifestyles.
Some are together as just friends, but dedicated friends and they see others.
he other males, her other males.She is a heiress and hides that.
She hides her identity with 5 different aliases, by writing columns and only a handful know who she is.
She takes the assignment to interview Lucas-he's out of prison now but the CA dept could put him back.He's on a goal to fix the prison system and aided those on the inside to form a union of sorts to get their rights.
I am a person who has to read a book to the end and I was glad I did with this one because the only great part of the book was the end.
I have read many Danielle Steel books and this was the rawest she has ever written.
On the one hand I appreciated her use of swear words and the dialect between the characters seemed real but on the other hand I couldn't wait to be done with the book.
I liked the ending that it didn't end like all love stories do but to get to that point was painful.
a really slow start. by the middle of the book I was starting to enjoy it. The story however is not predictable at all and has twists and turns you don't see coming. I felt the ending was abit abrupt and would have been nice to explore the final outcome a little more. overall an enjoyable read but I would not recommend it. Have read better Danielle steel books than this one.
I love this book. It shows that love can truely conquer anything put in its path. The fact that a woman of means falls in love with a convict and loves him beyond reason is beautiful. She sees this man for who he is on the inside and does not judge him for the mistakes he has made. This is a story of redemption, passion, and trust.
It was ok. I absolutely hated the main character, Kezia. She goes on and on about how she hates being rich. There is an easy solution. Give away more to charity. Tip the waiter more, establish a scholarship. I felt compelled to finish the book. I am glad I did, because I am still a Danielle Steel fan. But this one is not my favorite.
i believe this is one her earliest books and i can hope that she, like wine, gets better with age. parts of the story were really intriguing and otehr parts seemed to leave the characters at surface interactions. i'm a sucker for happy endings and this book didn't deliver in the way i wanted it to. i will be reading others of ms. steeles novels though.
Couldn't put this book down. Book started off a bit bland but after a couple of pages it started to get interesting. The middle is fast paced with lots of detail. The ending caught me by surprise...wasn't expecting that at all. A well written book with a protagonist who finally knows what to do.
Recommended by Maggie, Main Library, Circulation Department. (June 2016)
I wasn't crazy about this book. I thought it was way to long and about the same thing over and over. Kezki's character was good but I felt we should have learned more about her parents past.
Not a great one. Sorry, just can't understand women who date prisoners. Not my idea of romance!
Wild energy, passion and sexy menA great weekend read. Steel covers all the corners in this book. Money, power, sex, prison and strong wills tangled in a maze of love.
