https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29072594-born-to-run
Bruce, I fucking love you. That was amazing. "June 1, 1985, Slane Castle, Dublin, Ireland (Slane is NOT in Dublin, Bruce), our first stadium show ever ... Slane joined a rising number of our other performances to attain "legendary" status and, despite my distraction, turned out to be a solid show. On the streets of Dublin, it is often mentioned that if you were there, you were there. I was certainly there." I was there too.My first "rock concert"!31 years ago. I have the tickets and the t-shirt
We saw Bruce, as a family, over the years, five times - 4 times in Ireland (three in the space of two weeks, one summer and once in Belgium), but this summer my oldest son was the lucky one who saw him in Glasgow "sans famille"!I think I will keep this short and sweet because I really could wax lyrical about the book and Bruce for hours on end.
It is hard to read at times but I think Bruce, by writing this book, sort of dealt with his Dad and it was cathartic for him.
Bruce Springsteen. The Boss. One of the world's most iconic musicians whose career spanned four decades. He brought us so many great songs - Dancing In The Dark, The River, Radio Nowhere, Streets of Philadelphia, Darkness on the Edge of Town, Sad Eyes, Secret Garden, Death To My Hometown, Born In The USA, to name a few. He won an Academy Award for the song Streets of Philadelphia. He owns twenty grammys. He's such a freaking overachiever. I've been waiting to get my hands on this book for so lo
Bruce Springsteen.
One of the world's most iconic musicians whose career spanned four decades.
He brought us so many great songs - Dancing In The Dark, The River, Radio Nowhere, Streets of Philadelphia, Darkness on the Edge of Town, Sad Eyes, Secret Garden, Death To My Hometown, Born In The USA, to name a few.
He won an Academy Award for the song Streets of Philadelphia.
He owns twenty grammys.
He's such a freaking overachiever.
I've been waiting to get my hands on this book for so long and it did not disappoint.
Yes, it's freaking long.
You're the Boss.
Figure 1: Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band circa 1977.
(I was FOUR okay) (I also always thought it was the East Street Band...) This memoir is fairly in-depth - featuring over 500 pages covering Springsteen's childhood to present day.
So, when I would read about Springsteen getting the first TV on his block, dodging the draft or causing tension by including black band members - my immediate thought would be, "but surely he's not that old." Figure 2.
He used his time saved from the military to launch his music career - though he did hit quite a few rough patches.
Your mission today, if you choose to accept to accept it Self, is to head to my nearest Barnes and Noble and make this masterpiece mine. MINE MINE MINE MINE!
I loved this book.
Yes, I’m a Springsteen fan but I am not always a fan of autobiographical books.
So much I had no idea about his life and he was so open in this book.
He was honest with his feelings and stayed true to himself in this book.
He is not without fault or demons but if your a fan, you will stay a fan but I think the Boss gained some new ones along the way.
You ain’t a beauty but, hey, your alright.
Oh, and that’s alright with me.” Must Read
I listened to this from Audible.com read by Bruce Springsteen.
Back in the 70s in very blue collared Cleveland, Ohio I first heard Bruce Springsteen.
I owned plenty of 8-tracks but albums were things you kept recorded to cassettes.
Love or hate audio books, but there is something about the author reading his own life to you.
Unlike flash in the pan musicians, Springsteen has paid his dues albums stretching back over forty years.
There are the ups and downs of running a band and the swings in popularity as well as trying to lead a personal life.
This one is verbose with many songs on the set list and no fan lucky enough to attend one of his legendary 3-4 hour concerts (that would be me) would expect anything less.After reading about early then later family life, the inspiration and heartache behind the music, coping with serious depression, reinventing his music, the “brotherhood” of the band (RIP Big Man C), and the great blessings of his marriage and children, I was gratified to learn that I really like the generous and talented man behind the music I love.That moment at the L.A. Coliseum when he sang“So you're scared and you're thinking that maybe we ain't that young anymore .
Springsteen writes his autobiography like he writes his music, with an honest voice and in the most beautifully stunning way.
All in a bid to achieve the elusive American dream...
but what happens when you achieve the American dream?
He himself has inherited the susceptibility to depression and talks about it in such an open and honest way that only Springsteen could.One of my major takeaways from this book is that Bruce Springsteen is a guy that will always empty the tank in everything he does and he infuses that philosophy into the E Street Band.
That is Bruce Springsteen.
I'm a huge Bruce Springsteen fan, so it would be hard for this not to be fun for me to read.
I loved the stories of his childhood of near poverty, Catholicism, Freehold, NJ, his family, his awful father.
Bruce's ambition, from the get-go, is fascinating.
(As his desire for fame.) He is very honest and searching in this memoir--with thirty years of therapy to grease the wheels--and I found him to be quite articulate about his emotional landscape.
It was thrilling to hear him discuss how he wrote particular albums and how he writes songs.
But, hey, it's Bruce Springsteen.
I think he's a fabulous storyteller in songs--Darkness on the Edge of Town?
To be fair, it's a lot of anyone, but there is no better way to experience this than on audio with Bruce Springsteen expressively telling his story in his perfectly gravelly voice.
I often thought what he had just said was a line in one of his songs, and I enjoyed hearing the back stories to some of those songs, even when he didn't actually point it out.Bruce Springsteen remains an enigma even after alllll those hours I spent listening to him tell his story.
To me Bruce Springsteen remains an awe-inspiring talent, who has never forgotten where he came from.
A rock memoir like none other, a strange and extraordinary book that just might be counted as one of his greatest achievements. No, really.
I am not a Springsteen fan (nor detractor).
Before listening to this, I could have named perhaps one of his songs, though I'm sure I would have known more if I were played them.
His own truths are bared to the reader/listener too.
Here, the audio wins hands down: you can hear every bit of emotion as he talks about his family and friends, his mistakes and triumphs; every detail imbued with a frank self-reflection that I would struggle to apply to my own life.
In this, Bruce Springsteen has excelled.
40 favorite, ranked:racing in the streetthe riverthunder roadi’m on fire something in the nightghost of tom joadwreck on the highwaybecause the nightdeath to my hometowndancing in the dark adam raised a caintenth avenue freeze-outbadlandsborn to rundownbound trainjohnny 99point blanksherry darling nebraskapromised landthis american land human touchbrilliant disguiseatlantic city independence dayjungleland4th of july, asbury park (sandy)rosalitafurther on up the roadspirit in the nightfor youit’s hard to be a saint in the city highway patrolmanstate troopertunnel of lovelonesome daythe ties that bindcover meradio nowherelost in the floodsad eyes
Wow. This is hands down one of the greatest memoirs I've ever read.
The 500 pages breeze by in no time at all and I was sad when it came to a close.
Bruce opens up about his struggles in childhood and how those things came to effect his adult life in both his career and personal relationships.
He also, of course, goes into great detail about his rise from wannabe rockstar to full fledged Rock n Roll icon.
His chapter about his relationship with Clarence actually had me tearing up.Bruce's honesty along with his incredible storytelling make this a must read.
Written in a prose that can be described as Ray Bradbury by way of rock ‘n’ soul journeyman, “Bruuuuuuuuuuce” captures, recreates and spins the famous and infamous events and inner thoughts in the magic life of a man whose name is evoked so many times up and down our coast that one can very nearly hear it echoed in the almost total silence of its late-night circuit streets.Formed as three “books” within a book – Growin’ Up, Born to Run and Living Proof – and further broken down as a series of chronological essays with accompanying Backstreets-esque titles, it opens on his Freehold youth, where, at odds with a difficult 1950s-era factory worker father and under the wing of, first, a somewhat smothering grandmother despite his loving mother, Springsteen traces his burgeoning drive and ambitions while immersed in a heavily Catholic student life.
His spirit, his style, his nuances and his voice: the same things that draw us so tightly to his music, that make us cling so strongly to his words and sing them so loudly when no one’s watching (or in my case, listening!) and that serve as the links that allow us to see ourselves in verse after verse of his songs, are what ultimately make this book so great.A lot of us have read about Bruce endlessly since that historic week in October 1975 so reading about him now is nothing new, but in Born to Run we’re not reading about him.
3.5 StarsI only had one opportunity to see Bruce Springsteen in concert.
The chemistry between Bruce and the E-Street Band.
How did Bruce Springsteen become one of today's rock icons?
Bruce tells you all about growing up Catholic in working class Freehold, the transformative moments of seeing Elvis and The Beatles on The Ed Sullivan Show.
Many people have talent but you need some luck along the way.
People may envy Bruce.
when he didn't have a license or even know how to drive.
There is the story about a fishing trip to Mexico that his father arranged.
I desperately need my hands on this book and learn everything from my idol. Powerful voice and breath taking lyrics to unforgettable songs. I need more iconic musicians to write their autobiography and showcase the way on how they became famous and the journey it took for them to get where they are at now. I want all the Bruce Springsteen I can get!
Now there's tears on the pillowdarlin' where we sleptand you took my heart when you left.Without your sweet kissmy soul is lost, my friendtell me how do I begin again?My city's in ruins.My city's in ruins.Bruce Springsteen was forever on the periphery of my awareness.
Until the night he wasn't.There are moments in this life.
Then there's the black dog that caught up with him on the heels of his success - a depression dark enough to steal years of his life and set the core of his confidence trembling.
So, so beautifully written and incredibly honest. I could hear Bruce's voice on every page. He has honored us with sharing this gift, this 510 page song.
4.5 stars.I'm a fan of Bruce Springsteen so I knew I had to read this one.
This was wonderful and not just because I'm a fan and not just because I read a lot of autobiographies.
This book was well done.
It took more than a few years to write, and it shows.
He took his time with this project.
This felt honest and real.
I hate that he was draft-dodger, but I think I like him even more now, than I did before reading this.
I would read this again just for the writing style.
He writes of his family (most riveting for me), his bands and how he formed them, the genesis of his songs and albums and about performing.Most autobiographers tell you their experience as a child, very few attempt to interpret their parents’ experience of the family.
Springsteen is clearly the head of his band.
The “Tunnel of Love” album reflected his life at the time.
Springsteen writes a lot about the audience.

It may be impossible for me to review this book objectively, since Bruce has been my favorite rocker since 6th grade.
AND, being Irish-Catholic from the Rust Belt, there is something in Bruce's Irish-Catholic music (with admixtures of Dutch and Italian) that speaks to me.
Bruce was to my family what Elvis was to millions of poor, rural southerners in his generation.
So I was shocked at how the book rocked.
I was most touched when Bruce discussed his complex relationship with his mentally ill father.
At one time, while reporting how pissed he'd gotten at the paparazzi during the late 80's and early 90's, he mocked his younger self.
The possibility of finding root, safety and nurturing in a new season.” ~ Bruce SpringsteenThis must-read book is, of course, about music, but it is also all about LIFE.It's about living a life of your choice and pursuing your dreams.It's about not giving up.
It's about believing and trusting in LOVE and in family.It's about overcoming obstacles.And, more than anything else, this book is about believing in yourself.To be honest, I haven't heard much about Bruce Springsteen before - I feel that I am so very lucky and thankful to have had this wonderful opportunity, to listen to Bruce, telling his life story and memorable moments so far.
Thank you Bruce Springsteen for Born to Run!
He comes across as a man who has painted himself into a corner, trapped between his desire for authenticity and his awareness that his authentic life is going to seem ostentatious to a lot of people who earnestly believe in his myth.His weirdness as a writer isn’t limited to his prose style – Springsteen’s topic selection is also odd.
(That isn’t just armchair analysis on my part - he’s very open about how he needs his privacy, even from his closest confidants.) As a result he wrote a book that alternates between honest insights into his life and ‘relatable’ anecdotes that feel like smoke-screens and distractions from who he really is.
I remember when Bruce broke out with the dual cover stories in Time and Newsweek, that led me to the music and I was a faithful fan buying every album from Asbury Park to Nebraska and Born in the U.S.A. I was a more occasional fan after that, going through my jazz, classical and country period.
I suppose I'm trying to say that as a long time fan who has paid little attention to the details of the Springsteen journey and generally ain't much for biography I found this a beautiful and illuminating read.
Bottom Line: Bruce is honest, barebones, raw. It can't get any better than that. We all feel like he's our brother, especially if you're from New Jersey, and close to his age. But in this book, you'll discover, we didn't know everything, but we love him just the same. Ah, the family snapshots, not professional pictures, are priceless. Thanks Patti and Bruce.
I wasn't even a Bruce Springsteen person but ended up reading this book anyway and I am now a convert. I haven't stopped listening to Bruce Springsteen since the book ended. Great story, well told, with great lines (naturally) and a fascinating lens into fame and loneliness. Now I'm a fan for life.
My favorite part of the book was Part I where Springsteen describes growing up, and how he got into music.
His development as a musician took a great deal of work with many ups and downs.
Perhaps his parents move to California when he was just finishing high school, leaving him behind, was an important catalyst for his music career.I loved the stories of meeting musicians, especially Frank Sinatra.
His ups and downs, how he wrote certain songs and albums, his tours, all captivated me.
If you are a Springsteen fan, you'll be an even bigger one after reading his memoir.
