https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2300.Emergence
Eventually, she decides to check on life outside and discovers everyone dead, as well discovering a closely-guarded secret of her neighbor and mentor.It's an intriguing beginning, and I might have been a little bothered by the Speshul Snowflake syndrome (Candy is truly capable of everything) except she is so direct and honest about her feelings that her stiff-upper-lip self-talk and overall competence comes off as courageous.The narrative structure is--how do I say this--interesting, and now that I know the seeds of the story were in a novella, it makes more sense as a 'hook.' Candy uses a type of shorthand to write her journals, and the 'translation' of it comes across as quite staccato, missing conjunctions and normal sentence structure.
I read this book when I was thirteen, about two years older than Candy, the plucky girl-genius protagonist.
Major, major suspension-of-disbelief is required to survive some of the plot twists as Candy - who discovers while riding out a nuclear/biological apocalypse in her scientist dad's bomb shelter that she's one of a new breed of humans called homo-post-hominem - navigates the depopulated roads of America in a souped-up conversion van with her devoted pet macaw at her side (yeah, you get the idea), looking for fellow superbreed survivors.
I have read this book so many times that its cover is coming off. I would to have a hardcopy version of this book. This book is part of my "Comfort Reading" shelf -- books that are like old friends and need revisiting at least once a year or whenever I'm feeling off-kilter for whatever reason.
Here's a "sentence:" "Means must have farm."Almost every sentence is like this.
I may be the only one who reads this as an unreliable narrator book for this reason.That sentence, by the way, should have said.
"This (discovery) means I must move to a farm." When every sentence is like that, you have to re- and re-read to try and wiggle the meaning of out it, it's supremely irksome.
I stayed irked for 75 pages, and finally I tossed the book and it's awful (non)sentences aside.However, I am incredibly amused that because of goodreads recommending it, there are people going out and buying a used paperback copy for $55 American.
Ko i uvek :PImamo postapokalipticnu pricu koja totalno ignorise manje vise sve sto postoji u ovom zanru, hlavnog lika koja je klinka od 11 godina ali posto je manje vise suvi genije (ko rece Pera Kojot :) ) zvuci kao neko ko je daleko stariji.
Prica prati njeno prezivljavanje od pocetka apokalipse pa sve do razresenja nase buducnosti i vidimo kolko je neko znacajan i kolko je pamet stvarno vazna.Stil pisanja je ono sto moze najvise da vas odmije posto je knjiga prikazana kao njen zurnal, a posto kao genije nece da gubi vreme pisuci redvnim pismom nego koristi Pitman Shorthand zbog cega sve zvuci jako ...
This was another novel which I had started reading as a series of short stories in either Analog or Asimov's in the early 80's. I was first attracted to it due to the TEOTWAWKI elements, as I adore apocalypse fiction. But the unique writing style, and the delightful lead character has made this a book that I still returned to every few years. I have always thought it a real shame that Palmer never wrote more than two novels, his talent suggested that he was capable of many more great things.
The whole book is a journal of Candidia “Candy” Smith-Foster, an 11 year old super-genius representative of the next step in human evolution, the homo post hominem, man who follows man.
Cormac McCarthy was blunt and stark but lyrical, and Andy Weir, while still explaining how to solve problems of survival on Mars did not present the information like a text book or robot and the character emoted and was genuinely funny and real.
If the entire book had been more like the last 100 pages I might have rated it another star.
So the protagonist is a supergenius super cute preteen girl who is also a blackbelt in karate and has a talking parrot who can read her thoughts.
Which explains how she's just totally awesome and stuff.She meets up with a boy, they have adventures, they run into some bad guys...
and then stuff gets interesting.
There's no pretense of this being "realistic" or anything -- it's entertainment and there's a surprising amount of humor for a book that starts off by wiping out humanity.
Imagine if Buffy was crossed with Mad Max and you'd be close.This book was nominated for a Hugo ages ago, and it's easy to see why.
4.5 stars. Superior post-apocalyptic science fiction story with an excellent main character and well-written plot. Highly Recommended!!Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction NovelNominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction NovelNominee: Philip K. Dick Award for Best Science Fiction Novel
Labs! Sākumā grūti pierast pie tā saucamā "short handed" rakstības stila, jo it kā lasam dienasgrāmatu, ko sarakstījis ir 11 gadīgs ģēnijs. Bet pēc laika pierod un ir diezgan interesanta grāmata. Visumā ir pēcapokaliptiskā tēma un uz beigām arī nedaudz velk uz kosmosa SciFi sajūtām.P.S.: Starp citu "atpalikušais brālis dvīnis" ir galvenās varones papagailis ;) tas tā lai būtu saprotams jau no paša sākuma (man pieleca tikai pēc laba laika)
Unreadable..... The author uses a stream of consciousness writing style that annoyed me from the first second. Which is too bad because I have heard this is a good book. I can't be the only one who feels this way.
Gripping, touching, unpredictable. When it's all been done before, this is how you do post-apocalyptic fiction. Add a bird, skip (most of) the stranger danger, and blast off into MFing space!
Storyline: 2/5Characters: 4/5Writing Style: 5/5World: 2/5Consistency.
Long after the reader thinks, "this is not really going to keep going this way, is it?" Palmer is consistent.
It is not only the writing that is consistent though, it is the character.
First, I was so dazzled by the care in which the journal entries and our main character were put together, that I expected that same care in every other element of the novel.
Palmer was so narrowly focused on the writing and the character, so devoted to working out any plotholes that he tended to ignore anything not central to those elements.
But- you'll never read anything like it.
It's one of my favorite novels of any genre, and I've read lots (and lots) of post-apocalyptic titles.
Absolutely do not plan to read it out loud to anyone else, because it was written by a court reporter and reads like it was.
I'm not sure that it improved the story, however, it did give us more time with the protagonists, who we love despite the story going way, way beyond plausible coincidence.
If you get the chance to read this fun piece of "almost everybody else is dead" fiction and can actually find this one, it's well worth your time.
Years and years ago (when I was in my early teens), David gave me a copy of this and a Heinlein off of his own bookshelf...I'm pretty sure my sci-fi romance started out because of him.A fun story, with a smart, quirky girl at the core?
I'm fortunate to have read more of his work than most, and I can't recommend this one quite highly enough.
I had to replace my copy a few years ago (paperbacks just don't stand up to heavy reading for over a decade).
Might have gotten better score if not for the 30 page exposition why it would be rational for a 45yo creepy dude to do the naughty with the 11yo protagonist. For the rest totally unremarkable.
https://www.eyrie.org/~eagle/reviews/...Review written by Russ Allbery in the style of the book:"Short story remains simply brilliant, best science fiction short story reviewer has ever read.
Expanded story exposes far-fetched background more thoroughly, gives reader additional time to analyze, suspension of disbelief to suffer.
Narrative style helps considerably — too busy admiring language, identifying with emotions, caring about narrator to bother dissecting details.)Still brilliant.
Novel revived complete love of style, language, story, main character.
Very tempted to give perfect score despite flaws — love of story that strong.
Short story absolutely receives perfect score, novel very close.
Maybe an odd choice as a comfort read, but I've loved this book since I was about ten years old and swiped it off my dad's shelves of science fiction when I desperately needed something new to read.
Something about the combination of apocalyptic landscape, brilliant and funny eleven-year-old girl, and sciency stuff (even though, looking back, the science is horrible and also now incredibly dated) just hit all the right notes for me then, and even now I pull it off the shelf and reread it every once in a while when nothing else suits.
Still, if you can find it somewhere, it might be worth a read!
Fairly interesting and creative (certainly original at the time written), although certainly not for anyone looking for excellent literaty prose, as the "shorthand" style of writing isn't that. No more than 4 stars through (maybe 3.5, really) because of the extreme unrealism of the final plot twist(s). Am curious to try to find/download the sequel story though.
The writing style is super irritating. I rarely quit a book once I've started but I'm done with this one. So annoying. I really hate it. Go ahead, read a couple pages, you'll see what I mean.
Having loved the book when I read it at the behest of a friend a number of years ago (thank you Alison!), as soon as I heard this I rushed off to Fictionwise and bought the first Analog issue.
She continues to write everything down for History (with a capital H), in a chatty, informal style that quickly makes the reader feel like she is a familiar friend.Palmer has clearly put a lot of thought into the "what ifs" required for his story.
Candy is an eleven year old girl being raised by Dr. Foster after her parents died when she was very young.
He started teaching karate and Candy became his star pupil, she thereafter referring to him as Teacher.
When he goes to Washington Candy takes the opportunity to sneak into the bomb shelter and start reading all the materials that are there, which seem to be everything.
Candy after the waiting period plus safety margin decides it's time to leave the shelter.
Then goes into Teacher's house and finds a note.
post hominems that have been brought up with directed education, etc.
Having unpacked the books we couldn't do without, I picked up one of my all-time favorites, David Palmer's EMERGENCE, to re-read it.
As I've no doubt said before, re-reading old favorites is fraught with tension, because what if they don't hold up?EMERGENCE holds up.
I had every bit as much emotional investment--possibly more, because I'm a big old softie these days--as I ever did reading it previously, which is pretty wonderful.Also, Betsy Mitchell was one of the editors on it, which made me laugh out loud when I read the acknowledgements.
The main character is an exceptionally talented, extremely intelligent eleven year old girl.
There are a lot of other elements that you'll discover if you read the book, as well as an explanation for why Candy is so talented, strong, and intelligent.
The most interesting aspect was the narration style, which Candy describes as "Pitman Shorthand." There are no complete sentences, just the bare bones of whatever she's trying to say, so the book really comes across as a sort of stream of consciousness.
This was a totally fun story.
I read it on vacation in Florida last week.
It is written as an ongoing journal by Candy Smith-Foster of her experiences after a bionuclear war that destroys nearly everyone.
It sounds really depressing, but it's surprisingly up-beat and exciting.
Candy is a great character, maybe one of the best teen characters in sci-fi.The thing that cracked me up is that Spider Robinson was quoted on the cover as comparing this author's work with that of Heinlein's, but I found this book completely reminiscent of something Spider Robinson would have written.
Anyway, that makes it well worth reading!
Other, more enthusiastic reviews are I suspect based mainly on nostalgia, but this is as engaging as reading Heinlein's space-cadet books as an adult. The writing is moderately engaging in a naive, old-sci-fi kind of way, but heavily tempered by the preposterous premises, here just beginning with the super-human 11yr-old protagonist. I suppose if I'd read it as a pre-teen it would've been another fun, ego-centric super-hero romp. At this point though, well after that stage, I found it a bit painful.
The writing style is one of the most unique I've come across. The style itself is an extension of the main character as the story is in the first person perspective. At first it's a bit jarring, but then you get so used to it you don't even notice until... no spoilers.It's an amazing read, and one of my top ten favorite books. Unfortunately, it's out of print, but it's worth looking for in libraries, or the used section of Amazon.
I quite enjoyed Emergence. Nowadays it would probably be called a YA book, but at the time of publication (1984) it was probably considered straight SF. The story reminds me somewhat of Heinlein's juveniles. In fact, the main protagonist, Candy, is a very Heinleinesque character.I wanted more, but unfortunately, it seems that David R. Palmer pretty much stopped writing. Sad.
I have a great fondness for coming of age stories and apocalypse fiction, combine that with a girl as the main character and I'm sold. Excellent story-telling, vivid characters and a terrific side-kick. This is one of those books I go back to read every few years and enjoy as much as I did the first time I read it.
This is one of my very favorite books. I love the way it's written, the point of view (a young adult before they were big), the story and the adventure. I really wish Palmer had continued. I read Threshold eagerly and was anxious for that trilogy to continue, but it never did...
