https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1255781.Have_a_Little_Faith
"In the beginning, there was a question."In the end, the question gets answered." - Mitch AlbomI just finished reading Have a Little Faith by Mitch Albom.
Perhaps I was bored and needed something to do, perhaps I was looking for something to feel a void; or perhaps, just perhaps, I needed a little bit of faith.Have a Little Faith is an amazing story about a Rabbi, a Christian Minister, and a man with very little faith.
Sometimes in life I forget to look up and thank the man upstairs.
I forget to thank him for another day, another blessing, another lesson learned.I highly recommend this book to anyone from any religion.
Not overly melodramatic, or too nostalgic or sentimental, not even really distasteful, I like his writing, but just a little too much.
Like a glass of sweet tea that is just too full of sugar, needs a good squirt of lemon to knock it down a bit.
Having said that, I like Albom and his writing.
I like that he's a baseball fan.
I liked this better than The Five People You Meet in Heaven.
I thought of Randy Pausch's The Last Lecture and several people I know from my little bit of mission work.
I assumed this would be a typical Mitch Albom book, sentimental with "profound" life advice.
I feel like it's un-American not to read these short best selling books about finding what ever it is he is selling.
But I had forgotten how his simple story telling can get to your soul; the real reason these books are so successful.
Maybe it’s because we are so close in age with similar family upbringings that this hits me in the gut or because for me it’s an interesting look into the mind of a man hitting mid-life and the things he is still learning.
I didn't love it as much as I did the other books by Mitch Albom but this one is still worth reading.
Several years after Mitch Albom spent his Tuesdays with the famous Morrie, he began spending time with Albert Lewis.
Albert was his childhood rabbi, and sometime after Albom stopped going to temple, Albert surprised him with a request that Albert's eulogy be delivered by Albom.
The eight years they spent visiting and talking, along with each of their separate histories, are recounted.
Albom asked the wise old rabbi about his life, his marriage and family, and of course his faith.
The questions about other religions, their diversities and similarities, and the rabbi's answers brought me some understanding about those things myself.
داشتم فکر می کردم که اگر واقعا قرار بود خدایی وجود داشته باشه ، چه خوب می شد که خدای یهودی ها یا مسیحی ها می بود...
مهربون و بخشنده و همون قدر در دسترس و شوخ طبع !
درست بر عکس خدای ما مسلمون ها که همیشه عصبانی و بداخلاقه و بیشتر اوقات سرگرم جمع کردن هیزم واسه جهنمشه که به محض قبض روح شدن بنده هاش هولشون بده تو آتیش جهنننم تا هی بسوزن و زجر بکشن و خدا هم کیف کنه!!
One word - Amazing!
I'm really glad I chose to get the book.
It was a very insightful and thought provoking read for me.
Many parts of the book moved me to tears, and I loved the sermons.
I could relate them with everyday life!
I don't believe in any religion, so I started reading with a little trepidation, afraid it would start talking about converting etc.
But boy was I wrong!
This book is about faith, not just any specific religion..
but believing in something bigger than yourself.
and what life is really all about.
Great! What more can I say. Just what I needed on a sad day. Touches the heart! Quick, easy read full of meaning. Just like eating a warm brownie when my mother was alive.
Saya sendiri beberapa kali membaca ulang beberapa paragraf karena begitu indahnya makna yang disampaikan.Have a Little Faith adalah buku non fiksi yang ditulis dalam kurun waktu 8 tahun, berkisah tentang perjalanan hidup 3 pria - seorang rabi tua, pendeta kulit hitam dengan masa lalu yang kelam serta Mitch Albom sendiri.
Awalnya adalah sebuah pertanyaan yang kemudian menjadi permintaan terakhir "Maukah kau menyampaikan eulogi untukku?"Dan sebagaimana dengan keyakinan lainnya, aku merasa sedang dimintai pertolongan, padahal akulah yang sedang ditolong.Selesai membaca buku ini, saya juga merasa telah ditolong.
Thus begins an 8 year journey where he tries to learn about the man behind the pulpit, and to ask questions about how faith is developed and sustained.
A former drug addict and dealer, convict, thief, adulterer, and every other myriad of sins, at the bottom depth of his pain and treachery and danger, her reaches out to God. This begins a change in Henry that leads his to establish a church in downtown Detroit for the homeless.
Reverend Covington finds God and miracles in a dilapidated church where the heat and gas has been shut off.
The book is his journey to answer questions of God and Faith.
After the third book, his style seemed to be predictable: some stories about ordinary folks (The Five People You Meet in Heaven, For One More Day) and inject the subject of death or dying (The Five People You Meet in Heaven, For One More Day, Tuesdays with Morrie) and then throw in lots of heart-tugging emotional lines about love and family (The Five People You Meet in Heaven, For One More Day) or pepper it with some religious questions about how God works in our lives or the meaning of life (Tuesdays with Morrie).This book has all those ingredients.
The man, the congregate is Mitch Albom himself as this is has "Based on True Story" or so the title of the book says.
It is with grace of Jesus we all are saved.A book that gifted me lot of amazing moments.
Do your best with the present so you may be happy in your future and will be able to achieve the eternal peace which our God has kept for us eternally.It is a story about a Rabbi who approached Mitch Albom to write his eulogy.
In a deteriorating situation how the pastor manages to carry his works more powerfully proves the grace of God. The other side the Old Rabbi taught so many things to this generation.
«کمی ایمان داشته داشته باش» اثر میچ آلبوم.کتاب بر اساس اتفاقات واقعی نوشته شده.
همه چیز از زمانی آغاز میشه که کشیش کلیسا از میچ میخواد تا سخنرانی روز خاکسپاریش رو انجام بده و به همین دلیل هم میچ شروع به آشنا شدن با زندگی اون روحانی می کنه.
و به معانی جدیدی از ایمان دست پیدا می کنه.میچ آلبوم نویسنده ی محبوب منه و همیشه کتاباش بنظرم زیبا و خلاقانست.
اما این یکی رو که اتفاقا امتیاز بالایی توی گودریدز داشت، خیلی نپسندیدم.
به شدت شبیه به کتاب "سه شنبه ها با موری" بود که خب اون هم واسم خیلی جذاب نبود متاسفانه.
Becoming good or bad is always a choice but what we need to remember is God is always there to accept who we are, even though we made sins and troubles from our past, we’re not perfect we all know that and God also know that.
After that night, he started a new chapter of his life, he changed his path and he put God above all, he became a pastor on a church with hole on its roof and he served for his homeless brothers and sisters by giving them home.
God accepted Henry despite of all the bad things he made from his past.
Deep and brilliant.
I purchased "Have a Little Faith" by Mitch Albom, after receiving a recommendation to read this book
Just watched the movie; it's about two parallel (real) stories; one on Rabbi Albert L. Lewis; the other on Henry Covington. The sportswriter is the intersecting point. He's been asked an eulogy by the Rabbi; yet, he'll get to know also a former drug-dealer and drug-addict, Henry Covington, now a minister in a Presbyterian, Detroit church, crumbling apart. While collecting data from the Rabbi's life, the sportswriter will witness change in himself.The church gets rebuilt.Life takes on a new mea
Just watched the movie; it's about two parallel (real) stories; one on Rabbi Albert L.
Lewis; the other on Henry Covington.
The sportswriter is the intersecting point.
He's been asked an eulogy by the Rabbi; yet, he'll get to know also a former drug-dealer and drug-addict, Henry Covington, now a minister in a Presbyterian, Detroit church, crumbling apart.
While collecting data from the Rabbi's life, the sportswriter will witness change in himself.The church gets rebuilt.Life takes on a new meaning.Poignant,...
for both those two lives under examination.--UPDATEMitch Albom has written, very recently, an interesting article:"Lady Liberty has her say about The Wall"In: http://www.freep.com/story/sports/col...
Partially this book holds the same journey as the one with the professor Morrie Schwartz in  Tuesdays with Morrie  but here it has more a religious message which I found so many resembling spiritual values in my religion like: loving every person, giving, caring and turning to God whatever the situation is. I found Sami Yusuf New Song which celebrates The World Interfaith Harmony Week 2015 is a big match for this faithFULL book:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LHFuy...
Just what I needed to lift my spirit!
I loved reading about her testimony, but I felt like mine lost something in the translation from spoken to written word.Mitch Albom’s most recent book, Have a Little Faith, is, in a way, the story of his gaining a testimony.
Albom intersperses the Reb’s story with his own and with Covington’s, who came to Detroit and found his calling after an early life of crime, drug abuse and incarceration and now works to help change the lives of people who are as he once was, who need someone to have faith in them.I want to come clean with you: I haven’t been Mitch Albom’s greatest fan.
In this book, Two people are involved (not including Mitch Albom), Mr. Albert Lewis- or "The Reb" as he called who is a Pastor, and requests Mitch to do his Eulogy when the time he will leave this world, and Henry Covington, who is a criminal and drug addict, he lost his faith that's why he is doing such bad acts until the time that he need God's Help and became a Pastor after realizing his sins.
It's my first time to read a Non-Fiction book, but I found this interesting and inspiring.
Thumbs up to Mitch Albom for making such an inspiring story from other people.
This was 'almost' as good as "Tuesdays With Morrie". (both books being true stories)I read it when it came out. Its a human'gem' of a story!
"Unang songoni" beliau langsung berucap spontan demikian.Seperti Novel-novel yang ditulis oleh Mitch sebelumnya, novel ini merupakan kisah nyata yang ia tulis karena ia sendiri mengalami suatu pembelajaran atau pencerahan setelah ia merasakan pengalaman spiritual dengan orang lain atau sahabat dekatnya.Dalam buku ini, Mitch menggambarkan dirinya yang sedang dilanda kebingungan ketika ia diminta untuk menyampaikan eulogi kelak ketika Rabi di sinagoga (Sinagoga adalah nama tempat ibadah bagi orang Yahudi)-nya meninggal dunia.
Dan Mitch menanyakan kepada Reb, "Apakah kau akan bertemu dengan Rinah (putrinya yang meninggal karena gangguan pernafasan pada usia 4 tahun)lagi?"Jawabnya, "Ya. benar."kata Mitch lagi,"tetapi ia hanyalah anak."Ia berbisik," Di atas sana, waktu tidak berlaku."Akhirnya waktunya tiba.
«دوست ندارم این کتاب رو!» تا اواسط کتاب با این حس صفحاتش رو ورق زدم.
نمی دونم چرا، اما نمی تونستم باهاش ارتباط برقرار کنم.از نیمه ی کتاب که گذشتم، به طرز عجیبی همه چیز وارونه شد.
مقاومت رو کنار گذاشتم و دیدم این کتاب قرار نیس روبروم بنشینه و کلیشه ای باشه، قرار نیس برام موعظه کنه و از بالا بهم نگاه کنه...
به جای همه ی این ها، قراره کنارم باشه و فقط برام حرف بزنه.
قضاوتم نمیکنه...
قصه میگه و قضاوت رو به خودم میسپره...
درست مثل نمونه موعظه های روحانیِ دوست داشتنیِ این کتاب...دخترکی با نقاشی ای که
به جای همه ی این ها، قراره کنارم باشه و فقط برام حرف بزنه.
اما بینِ تمومِ این تکراری ها، روحانیِ دوست داشتنیِ این کتاب بود که متفاوت بود و کم کم جذبم کرد.
اینها رو دوست داشتم و این روحانی رو هم.انتظارم از این کتاب، مفاهیم متفاوت تری بود، شاید عمیق تر...
اما در آخر، درباره ی همین مفاهیم ساده و سوال های روزمره ی ذهن آدم هم روان و زیبا صحبت می کردند، و من نتونستم از خوندن حرف های ساده و صادقانه این روحانیِ دوست داشتنی لذت نبرم.چیزی را که به آن اعتقاد دارم، می دانم.
It drew me closer to my faith and appreciate and respect faiths of friends and family that are different from mine.
Certainly, my faith grew a lot stronger, although it was fairly strong before reading this book but it also helped me focus more on what is important but also on the things in life that we enjoy and realize that we are not in control of our future or our lives and we must always remember that.
If ever I feel my faith in God faltering, I will certainly read this book again and recommend it to family and friends when they are going through the ups and downs in their lives and feel they have no where to turn.
كتاب يحكي أحداث عاشها الكاتب مع راهب المعبد الذي كان يرتاده عندما كان صغيرا ، فحينما طلب منه الراهب 
I had two books left to read this year to meet my Goodreads reading challenge goal of 80 books. So, i pulled this slim book off the shelf. Wow, it packs a punch and turned out to be one of the best books I have read this year. During a time when I find myself questioning my faith, this book was just what my soul needed.
I read Tuesdays with Morrie several years ago, and I found it touching, but I'm not sure I would say I loved it.
And while some of Albom's questions seemed a little childish to me, I thought his depiction of the peace that comes through faith was beautiful.But most especially, I loved the Reb. I've always admired faithful people of all religions, but in particular, I've admired those of the Jewish faith.
Some people have a gift of faith, and it is clear that Rabbi Albert Lewis was one of those people.
It struck me as a simple, feel-good story about a journey to faith.
It felt like Mitch Albom was encouraging people to accept religion because it made these simple people feel good and be happy.
By the end of the book, I appreciated the characters and Mitch’s faith journey.
At the same time, this book – while espousing religions that are totally off-base with my own – re-affirmed my own theology.
I suppose, then, I would recommend the book to anyone of strong faith with an interest in relating to people with different belief systems.I expected more from Albom after Tuesdays With Morrie, which truly changed my life.
While I was reading Have a Little Faith, I found myself both emotional and pensive, pondering over the questions that Albom himself struggled with: Why do good things happen to bad people?
But both of them embody their faith and inspire the people around them, both in their congregation and beyond it.Every year, I'll read dozens of books from the library and happily return them when I'm done.
Have a Little Faith is one of those books I want sitting on my shelf, so that I can reread it.
