https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12395.Journey_to_the_End_of_the_Night
(...)Τί τρελοκομείο η στερημένη ζωή! Μια τάξη είναι η ζωή, κι η πλήξη είναι ο παιδονόμος της, που διαρκώς σε κατασκοπεύει. πρέπει πάση θυσία να μοιάζεις απασχολημένος με κάτι πολύ συναρπαστικό, ειδάλλως πλακώνει και σου ροκανίζει το μυαλό. Οταν η μέρα δεν είναι τίποτα άλλο από ένα σκέτο εικοσιτετράωρο, δεν υποφέρεται. Μια μακριά, σχεδόν αβάσταχτη ηδονή πρέπει να είναι η μέρα, μία μακριά συνουσία, θες δε θες.Σου κατεβαίνουν λοιπόν σιχαμερές σκέψεις, όσο σ' αποβλακώνει η ανάγκη, όσο μέσα στο κάθε
Είναι ο γιατρός των αθεράπευτων,των εκτυφλωτικά σκοτεινών ιδεωδών,των βαρύθυμων συνειδησιακά υπάρξεων που ταυτίζονται μαζικά στη μύηση της ψυχής του μέσα στη νύχτα,αθόρυβα και σταδιακά.
Δεν υπάρχει ζωή-ιδιαιτέρως για τους φτωχούς και τους διαφορετικούς-απο κάθε άποψη,που τους ορίζουν οι βάρβαροι και οι δυνατοί του κόσμου αυτού.
Ειρηνικής ή πολεμικής καθημερινότητας,που έχει πάντα έναν κοινό εχθρό: το δέος μπροστά στην αλήθεια του αφανισμού μας ως πνευματικές και υλικές υπάρξεις και την κόπωση μπροστά στη ζωή.
Μια ζωή αποδομημένη,ανοιχτή προς την πύλη του θανάτου και φιλική με τους κανόνες της υλικής εσχατολογίας.
Whoa.
How do you prepare someone?
Should someone be prepared (I wasn’t)?
Imagine the most depressing story you’ve ever read (and I’ve read ALL of McCarthy), narrated by the angriest of narrators (who may mellow, then again, maybe readers simply become hardened), describing circumstances that are necessarily ugly (war, colonial Africa) or merely simply ugly (contemporary culture, old people, young people, other people), but then told with a humor that makes it hard to put down (set down or belittle).
Maybe you.Unlike anything I’ve read, and it will send me back for more Céline—just not right away.
“Not much music left inside us for life to dance to. Our youth has gone to the ends of the earth to die in the silence of the truth. And where, I ask you, can a man escape to, when he hasn't enough madness left inside him? The truth is an endless death agony. The truth is death. You have to choose: death or lies. I've never been able to kill myself.”  Toni Servillo is Jep Gambardella in The Great BeautyI watched the Italian film The Great Beauty the other day. The film opens with a quote by Loui
I decided to start by reading a book that has been sitting on my shelf for a decade called Journey to the end of the night, after all Sorrentino did begin his film with that quote by the French writer.
I’ve never read Céline and not for the first nor for the last time I felt a bit foolish to be caught not knowing something, not knowing why Sorrentino would begin his film with that particular quote.
Céline wanted to write a truthful novel.
648. Voyage au bout de la nuit = Journey to The End of The Night, Louis-Ferdinand CélineJourney to the End of the Night (Voyage au bout de la nuit, 1932) is the first novel by Louis-Ferdinand Céline. This semi-autobiographical work describes antihero Ferdinand Bardamu. Bardamu is involved with World War I, colonial Africa, and post–World War I United States (where he works for the Ford Motor Company), returning in the second half of the novel to France, where he becomes a medical doctor and esta
The disparate elements of the work are linked together by recurrent encounters with Léon Robinson, a hapless character whose experiences parallel, to some extent, Bardamu's experiences.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و هشتم ماه فوریه سال 1995 میلادیعنوان: سفر به انتهای شب؛ نویسنده: لوئی فردینان سلین؛ مترجم: فرهاد غبرائی؛ تهران، جامی، 1373؛ در 534 ص؛ شابک: 9645620333؛ چاپ سوم 1383؛ چاپ پنجم 1394؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان فرانسه - سده 20 مکسی که از آینده حرف بزند، مخش معیوب است.
رمان سفر به انتهای شب، یکی از شاهکارهای ادبيات فرانسه است.
From the muddy battlegrounds of the great war and the sweltering infested jungles of French colonial Africa, to his discovery of america where he takes a job in an industrial Detroit and his return to the suburbs of Paris to work as a doctor before finally taking employment in a mental asylum, we follow Céline's alter ego Bardamu with a misanthropic first person narrative through the trials and tribulations of life and trying to make sense of the world around him.
Told as a semi-autobiographical novel Céline certainly doesn't hold back in terms of his views, where mainly it's one of disgust and bitterness at the state of society.
Ferdinand Bardamu, from the First World War on bush stories in the deepest Africa and a galley trip to America until the return to France as a poor doctor.
On Célines lies, vulgarities and corruption against the poor, experiencing this realistic-grotesquely portrayed world.The novel carries mainly autobiographical features.
How Celine marches his protagonist Bardamu as a worker, doctor, people and lover through the turmoil of war and the societies in Africa, America and Paris.
With one language ahead of the next, Celine's focus on everything that bothers him seems hypocritical and disastrous.
Great Novel!
از این یکی بهره ای نداشتم, یا در واقع آنقدر کم داشتم که به زحمت نشان دادنش نمی ارزید.........هیچ چیزی نداشتم غیر از خبث طینت!"ضدر اینکه لویی فردینان سلین نويسنده قادری بود شکی ندارم و در اینکه قلمی توانا داشت که میتوانست به روشنی بنویسد و تاریکی ها را به همان خوبی نور به نمایش بگذارد ابهامی نیست.....تنها تاسفم از بکار بردن اینهمه استعداد در بیان نفرت و انزجار پایان ناپذیری بود که خواندنم را به شدت دشوار کرده بود.....من با سلین به انتهای شب سفر نکردم که به انتهای بغض و کینه و انزجار رفتم جایی که امیدوارم ذات انسانی ام هرگز مرا به آنجا هدایت نکند
Apparently, for a week or so in June 1997 I either lost my sense of humor or felt some kind of glow of optimism that made me feel the misanthropic subject of this book was boring.
I could try to come up with some kind of serious analysis of the book.
I could ignore the book altogether and write about myself, and use the book as a vague jumping off point; i.e., write all about the types of people I hate and make myself Céline like.
just finished reading it and it really feels like it might be the central book of the entire 20th century.
thompson and bret easton ellis and about a million other people...
it's not even that i like the book so much (though it's ferocious and fun and has a lot of great lines), it's just that it's like this giant puzzle piece that i never saw before and now suddenly everything makes a whole lot more sense.
After a while I got up to look at his face.
He looked quite ordinary.
There ought to be some mark by which to distinguish good people from bad.
But lest I sound as if this book is 344 pages of depressing observation after depressing observation, Celine finds the humor and objectivity to step outside the masquerade and in turn possibly transcend artifice, even for a little while.
And although Celine doesn’t equate that transcendence with morality, and might mock me mercilessly for even mentioning the possibility, by acknowledging human need and darkness in all its plain, everyday forms one takes the first step in becoming something other than what some might perceive is the inevitable norm.
Don’t give up if after the first twenty pages you think this book will be primarily about Celine’s stretch in the French military.
Μιλάει στην ψυχή του ανθρώπου, για πράγματα που σπανίως λέγονται από τον άνθρωπο.
Το τρίτο αφορά τη μετανάστευση στην Αμερική των αρχών του 20ού αιώνα, με τις πρωτόγνωρες συνθήκες εργασίας στις φάμπρικες με τους ανθρώπους-μηχανές και τέλος η επιστροφή στην μεταπολεμική Γαλλία και η προσπάθεια του ανθρώπου να σταθεί παλεύοντας με την φτώχεια.Ο αφηγητής είναι σκληρός με όλα και με όλους.
Για να τον διαβάσω, πρέπει να αναστείλω την εβραϊκή μου συνείδηση, αλλά το κάνω, γιατί ο αντισημιτισμός του δεν βρίσκεται στην καρδιά των βιβλίων του.
Εδώ μιλάμε για τον ορισμό του πεσιμισμού, της ματαιότητας και της ανθρώπινης ποταπότητας σε κάθε πιθανή της έκφανση με αναλυτικές περιγραφές σε σελίδες επί σελίδων.Δεν ήταν βαρετό βιβλίο, είχε μία μεγάλη γκάμα γεγονότων τα περισσότερα εκ των οποίων βιογραφικά χωρίς να μπορώ να σας πω βέβαια με ακρίβεια τι ποσοστό αντιστοιχεί στην πραγματικότητα.
Όχι δεν μου αρκεί το γεγονός ότι σε αυτό το βιβλίο δεν φαίνονται αυτές του οι πεποιθήσεις.Αυτό μάλιστα που με εξαγρίωνε ακόμα περισσότερο είναι ότι αναρωτιόμουν πώς γίνεται ένας άνθρωπος που έχει βιώσει στο πετσί του την φρίκη του πολέμου, έχει δει τόσο θάνατο στην ζωή του να αποφασίζει να πάει από εκείνη την πλευρά του κόσμου.Ναι ο Σελίν σε πάει στο πιο βαθύ σκοτάδι, γιατί το κουβαλάει μέσα του.
Questo libro è un viaggio allucinante nella bestialità umana, nella solitudine, alla disperata ricerca di senso, di bellezza, di amore. Tutto inutile, fatica sprecata. Buio pesto.C’è in Céline qualcosa di disarmante, che mette a nudo le nostre ipocrisie, le maschere che ci piace indossare; la sua sincerità è spudorata, sfrontata, impertinente. Per quel che vale, io credo che bisogna amare la vita nel modo più struggente per essere così profondamente disgustati da tutto.Sono contenta che qualcuno abbia avuto il coraggio di scrivere un libro simile. Capolavoro!Metto una piccola luce nel buio…https://youtu.be/vDvL1qHnXAs
Nasıl başlayacağız bakalım...YKY'de onyedinci baskısını yapmış Gecenin Sonuna Yolculuk, kolay bir kitap değil.Öncelikle taşımak çok zor, Kazım Taşkent Klasikler Dizisi'nin kapak tasarım ve kağıtlarına hayranım.
Fakat kitabı yanımda taşımakta çok zorlandım, her ne kadar şık bir görünüm verse de bu kağıdın gözümü yorduğunu düşünüyorum.
'Gerçekten de insanın vakti asla yetmiyor, sırf kendini düşünmeye bile.'Bardamu ile yaptığım zihinsel yolculuk her konuyu derinlemesine düşünmeyi, alay etmeyi, aslında ciddi bir konu konuşulurken zihnimin raks etmesini, özgürleşmeyi, daha önce yaşamadığım bir vertigoyu, zihnimin 'yeter' diyecek kadar ısınmasını beraberinde getirdi.
Bütün bunlar artık beş para etmeyen son pişmanlıklardır.'Çok fazla alıntım var.
This is a little bit sad, because I would have loved this book fifteen years ago, when I believed bitter misanthropy and self-indulgent misery were the only true lenses through which humanity should be viewed.
Of course, I was in high school at the time (and it was boarding school at that),so that explained it.At age thirty-two, Journey to the End of the Night set somewhat differently with me.
His journey out of Africa in the throes of malarial hallucinations (by far, my favorite part of the book .
And maybe it's just that I've grown jaded (though not as jaded as Bardamu) with age.
Yüzyıl edebiyatını derinden sarstı, yapılmayanı yaptı, edebiyat tarihinde bir dönüm noktası oldu, romanda bir devrim yaptı ve benzeri büyük laflar… Bu ve daha büyük sözlerin hiçbirine katılmamakla birlikte gönül rahatlığıyla şunu söylerim ki; yer yer etki bakımından aynı düzeye taşındığı ( Ulysses,Niteliksiz Adam,Vergilius’un Ölümü ve Kayıp Zamanın İzinde) eserler ile karşılaştırılınca Yolculuk anakronik bir roman, 20.
Celine’i edebiyatçı değil de bir felsefeci olarak daha çok severdim gibi geliyor nedense.
Yazarın bir derdi olmasını önemsiyorum, bu derdi eğer roman okuyorsam edebi sınırlarda anlatmasını daha çok önemsiyorum, ki büyük eserler dediğim şey çoğu zaman tastamam bu derdin edebileştirilmesinden geçiyor.
Our journey is entirely imaginary, which is its strength."Celine's first novel begins with the words, "Here's how it started" and finishes "...and that would be the end of us."In between is a journey that takes in childhood, family life, service in the great war, recuperation in a hospital, an adventure in the heart of darkness of colonial Africa, a liberating voyage across the Atlantic, the glamorous promise of New York, factory work in Detroit, a return to Paris, life as a doctor in semi-rural France, a job in an insane asylum, and eventually death.
Comunque, ho difeso la mia anima fino ad oggi e se la morte, domani, venisse a prendermi, non sarei, ne sono certo, mai tanto freddo, cialtrone, volgare come gli altri, per quel tanto di gentilezza e di sogno che Molly mi ha regalato nel corso di qualche mese d'America".
"Quel che è peggio è che uno si chiede come l'indomani troverà quel po' di forza per continuare a fare quel che ha fatto il giorno prima e poi già da tanto tempo, dove troverà la forza per quelle iniziative sceme, quei mille progetti che non arrivano a niente, quei tentativi per uscire dalla necessità opprimente, tentativi che abortiscono sempre, e tutti per arrivare a convincersi una volta per tutte che il destino è invincibile, che bisogna sempre ricadere ai piedi della muraglia, ogni sera, sotto l'angoscia dell'indomani, sempre più precario, più sordido.
Era solo dentro di me quello che capitava, per farmi sempre la stessa domanda.
Il suo eroe, Bardamu, tormentato infinitamente, e il suo doppio, Robinson, compagno segreto, sono esseri minacciati da una forma di male endogena, in tensione tra eros e thanathos, ubriachi di vita e di delirio, trasfigurati nell'abiezione e nella corruzione.
Perché Céline, nel suo rabbioso altruismo, vuole sentire attraverso le personalità che rappresenta: “Il fatto è che io devo entrare nel delirio, mi trovo bene solo in un grottesco ai confini della morte, a tutto il resto sono insensibile”.
Bardamu scende nell'amoralità della strada; il suo nichilismo è intessuto di silenzio e contraddizioni.
به نام اوبرخی از نویسندهها و شاعران هستند که باید آثارشان را در خفا بخوانی، لذت ببری و جز به عدهای معدود توصیه نکنی هرچند که بسیار دوستشان داری و علاقه داری دیگران هم از اثر ادبی این بزرگان بهرهمند شوند، برای من لویی فردینان سلین یکی از این بزرگان استمن شیفته ادبیات فرانسه نیستم، با این که رمانهای کمی از این ادبیات نخواندهام. به غیر از چند اثر علاقه خاصی به فرانسویها ندارم، ولی سلین برایم چیز دیگریست انگار اصلا فرانسوی نیست اصلا ادا و اصولهای نویسندگان فرانسوی را ندارد، به عبارتی با توجه به کلیش
و مرگ قسطی آثار بهتری هستند و به زعم بسیاری تنها این دو کتاب را می‌توان جزو آثار داستانی به حساب آورد کتابهای پس از این دو کتاب با افراطهایی که سلین در سبک خاص خود داشته بیشتر به مقالات و نوشته‌های تند و گزنده‌ای شباهت دارد که سلین در دوران شهرت برای تقابل با جریانهای مخالفش نوشته استخودِ من نتوانستم دسته دلقکها را به پایان برسانم.
و از طرفی این کتابها ممکن است افراد مبادی آداب را پس بزند، پس من به همه دوستان توصیه نمی‌کنم، تشخیص با خود عزیزانبه هر رو خواندن سفر به انتهای شب با ترجمه مرحوم فرهاد غبرایی برای من بسیار لذت‌بخش بود
Céline was a pretty unsavory human being. An anti-Semite, a misogynist, pretty much full of hate all around. And yet, a fucking amazing writer. His French is both beautiful and vulgar, heart-rending and repulsive, full of interesting characters and yet completely alone. Voyage au bout de la nuit also exists as a graphic novel by Tardi. It is a completely unforgettable novel of devastating beauty that needs to be taken for the literature it is without too much concern for the tortured man that created it.
Öncelikle böyle bir kitabı yazabilecek cesarette biri olduğu için Céline'e; her röportajında on dört yaşından beri sürekli olarak tekrar tekrar bu kitabı okuduğunu söyleyip okumama sebep olduğu için Hakan Günday'a; ama -bence- en önemlisi, bu kadar muhteşem bir çeviri yaptığı, o güzelim dipnotları ekleyerek anlaşılmadık tek bir nokta bırakmadığı, insanın aklını başından alan, gülümseten, dünyanın en tatlı sonsözünü yazdığı için Yiğit Bener'e çok, çok, çok teşekkür ediyorum.
"Ben çok gördüm geçirdim, her şeyi biliyorum, evet insanların hepsi pislik, ama ben bunun farkına vardığım için onlardan biraz daha az pisliğim."cilerden sanmıştım.
bol yağlı, çok leziz bir yemeği bol kepçe yemişim de sindirimi uzun sürecek gibi..
لویی فردینان سلین را در حالی تصور میکنم که تا لحظه نوشتن این کتاب یعنی تا سیوهشت سالگیاش سکوت کرده و همه حرفها و گفتهها را در سرش نگه داشته، صبر کرده تا لحظهای برسد که بنشیند پشت ماشینتحریر (تصویر ایدهآلم از نویسندهها به وقت نوشتن کتابهایشان) و شروع کرده کلمهبهکلمه مثل آمپول بزرگی که در رگی فرو میرود و قطرهقطره دارو را تزریق میکند به خون، با حوصله قالب سخت و سربی نوشتار را قلقلک داده وگرنه چطور میشود کتابی نوشت که یک جملهاش هم غیرجذاب نیست اما اینهمه قطور است؟ در ابتدا به نظر میرسد که سلین میخوا
لویی فردینان سلین را در حالی‌ تصور می‌کنم که تا لحظه نوشتن این کتاب یعنی تا سی‌و‌هشت سالگی‌اش سکوت کرده و همه حرف‌ها و گفته‌ها را در سرش نگه داشته، صبر کرده تا لحظه‌ای برسد که بنشیند پشت ماشین‌تحریر (تصویر ایده‌آلم از نویسنده‌ها به وقت نوشتن کتاب‌های‌شان) و شروع کرده کلمه‌به‌کلمه مثل آمپول بزرگی که در رگی فرو می‌رود و قطره‌قطره دارو را تزریق می‌کند به خون، با حوصله قالب سخت و سربی نوشتار را قلقلک داده وگرنه چطور می‌شود کتابی نوشت که یک جمله‌اش هم غیرجذاب نیست اما این‌همه قطور است؟ در ابتدا به نظر می‌رسد که سلین می‌خواهد به انتقاد از جنگ بپردازد و در بدگویی از آن و دست‌هایی که آن را به جلو می‌رانند، کوتاهی نمی‌کند اما بعد خواننده خیلی زود متوجه می‌شود که جناب سلین تقریباً از هیچ‌چیزی راضی نیست و نک‌ونال است که فضای رمان را پر کرده اما این وسط چیزهایی دستگیر خواننده می‌شود که چندان بی‌ربط با احساسات راوی نیست.
یک کوه. یک سفر. یک مرگ. به زودی یک بغل نکته از این شاهکار مینویسم. بار دومی که میخونیش تازه متن به چشم میآد و فرم خودنمایی میکنه. بینظیر.
یک کوه. یک سفر. یک مرگ. به زودی یک بغل نکته از این شاهکار می‌نویسم. بار دومی که می‌خونیش تازه متن به چشم می‌آد و فرم خودنمایی می‌کنه. بی‌نظیر.
کار با غصه دار شدن به آخر نمیرسد... دوباره باید راهی پیدا کرد که همه ی قصه را از سرگرفت و به غصه های تازه تری رسید...ولی بگذار دیگران برسند... همه بی آنکه بروز بدهند دنبال برگشت جوانی شان هستند... بنازم به این رو!از متن کتاب
Το χειρότερο απ’ όλα είναι ότι αναρωτιέσαι πως θα βρεις την επόμενη ημέρα αρκετή δύναμη για να συνεχίσεις να κάνεις αυτά που έκανες την προηγούμενη εδώ και τόσον μα τόσον καιρό, που θα βρεις τη δύναμη για εκείνα τα ηλίθια διαβήματα, τα μύρια σχέδια που δεν καταλήγουν πουθενά, τις απόπειρες να γλιτώσεις από τη συνθλιπτική ανάγκη, απόπειρες που πάντα φαλιρίζουν, και όλες τους για να πειστείς ακόμα μια φορά πως η μοίρα είναι αναπόδραστη, πως πρέπει να ξαναπέσεις στα ριζά του τοίχου, κάθε βράδυ μες στην αγωνία εκείνου του αύριο, ολοένα πιο αβέβαιου, ολοένα πιο άθλιου.
It happened every day at exactly six o’clock.”Despite its pessimistic darkness Journey to the End of the Night is fraught with refined decadent romanticism.“Take the highway to the end of the night.
End of the night, end of the night.
Who of them didn’t wish to have one’s own journey to the end of the night?
And who of the readers didn’t as well?“Not much music left inside us for life to dance to.
And where, I ask you, can a man escape to, when he hasn't enough madness left inside him?
A full-on misanthropic epic, like if E.M. Cioran met Thom Yorke for a fly pie in a Nigerian slum.
Céline is a deliberately choppy, lawless stylist, Dostoevskian in his fondness for the nerve-racked ellipsis and the hysterical exclamation point (tics that would characterise his later, practically unreadable, work).
Bardamu is the Céline stand-in whose detached cruelty acts as a necessary galvaniser for his adventures in WWI, French-occupied African hinterlands and a stint in a freshly industrialised American scream.
His ranting adventures run on a manic, darkly comic energy, a teeth-clenching horror, a rubberneck’s glee at such innate human beastliness, and genuinely momentous plot shapes and shifts.
Tortuously human.
It has also influenced more great writers than you can shake a sock at.
Celine threw his lot in with the Nazis and argued for an alliance between France and Germany.
Now is the time to act, because tomorrow will be too late.”Once France had fallen Celine supported the Nazis.
The head of propaganda for the Nazis in France, Payr, was of the opinion that Celine was too extreme to be helpful.
After the war Celine had to leave France as he was wanted as a collaborator.
Celine is in the tradition of Balzac, Zola and many of the great French writers.
