https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/634757.Hatter_s_Castle
Was scared and rescared, depressed and redepressed by this novel many times.
A non-stop journey through heart-wrenching misery.
A masterpiece of a novel.
A must read for any psychologist.
Highly recommend it for people who are willing to learn about dinamics of disfunctional families across generations.
Some people manage to create such lives for their closest ones, without meaning to.
I read this while being thoroughly depressed as a teen (don't try this at home!) and it gave me, paradoxically, some perspective on things.
Even though I should have paid more attention to some of the things in here, at the time.
Cronin wrote and destroyed his firsts drafts of this story while working on it. Finally in 1931 Hatter's Castle, Cronin's first novel, was published. Meet the Brodie family: James Brodie and his wife Margaret Brodie, their children Matthew, Mary, Nessie and Mr Brodie's mother. In the story we see how the family is broken and destroyed by the tyrannical Brodie. The book is available for free here http://archive.org/details/hatterscas...
"Замъкът на шапкаря" на Кронин показва разрушителността на човешкото его: http://www.knigolandia.info/2009/11/b...Като малък често спирах погледа си върху тази книга.
Логично, него лично го виждах като Шапкаря от "Алиса в страната на чудесата" на Луис Карол, все пак с какво друго може да го свърже детското ми съзнание.
Преди дни взех тази книга и започнах да я чета, подтикнат от друг хубав роман на Кронин - "Цитаделата".
И наистина попаднах в страната на чудесата, но с обратен знак - на тъмните, зловещи чудеса.
Там, където човешкото его унищожава души, животи, разрушава настояще и бъдеще.
They were not impractically created, on the contrary, those kinds of models live everywhere among us: we can always find in real life a man who is extremely arrogant and delusional and disrespectful just because he thinks he has the edge over other people; a loving but mentally weak mother, whose way of loving her own children just spoils them; a spoiled son who uses up all the money his loving mother has worked her ass of to gain for him; a devoted, hard-working wife whose work isn't appreciated and respected by her husband; a husband who dreams about another woman while still in the marriage with his wife, and feels happy upon his wife's death; a daughter who hasn't been raised properly, with the lack of sex education that finally results in her being pregnant while not married; a child who is forced to study too much that she can't stand the pressure of it and the terrifying feeling that she will be punished really hard upon failing to achieve the extremely high academic goal her father has set for her, and decides to kill herself...
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
This book definitely captures the turmoil uf a dysfunctional family, whose members are slowly destroyed by the singular ambition of the head of the family:James Brodie.Basically,this book is about loss:loss of innocence, loss of succes, loss of family,loss of self-respect, loss of everything that truly matters and shapes us into what we are.The characters are all tormented in their own way,and yet they choose to rather turn a blind eye to their problems instead of trying to fix them.
There is only regret,fear and sadness.
Every significant moment is hidden by a bitter-sweet cover,and the ending,although quite predictable will still leave you with a slightly hopeless feeling,that may turn your stomach a bit and make you question what is really important in life and what are our true expectations.
Изрази које Броди користи када се обраћа својој старој мајци, својој жени, сину Мату и кћерима Мери и Неси - у најмању руку су настрани и гротескни.Његова превелика очекивања од своје деце подстицана застрашивањима и понижавањима најгоре врсте, а опет у циљу доказивања пред другима довешће до пропасти сваког од његових чланова породице, а самим тим и његове.Далеко од тога да су остали укућани савршени и без мана, али су класичан пример оних људи који су постали такви какви јесу јер је неко други дао себи за право да своје комплексе лечи одлучујући о судбинама других под изговором да је све то из најбоље намере и јер они знају шта је боље за њих.
I read this book a looong time ago, so although the storyline is now a bit fuzzy in my head, I still remember the heart wrenching, tear jerker scenes in it.
There are a lot.
The ending has a HEA.
This is the first book that made me feel pity and sadness at the very end for a character that I hated throughout.
Very powerful book, not to read when you're depressed!
But sad endings definitely are the most memorable of all.
That's probably why I'm rating this book so highly.
Джемс Броуди построил себе Замок.  Как это принято замках, и здесь в заточении томятся пленники- это семья Джемса Броуди. День за днем он превращает их жизнь в ад, в погоне за удовлетворением собственных гордости и тщеславия. А вышвырнутая им на улицу старшая дочь выглядит просто счастливицей. Тем, кто остался, повезло гораздо меньше. Ведь никто не прискачет в этот Замок на белом коне, чтобы победить дракона.Это книга из разряда тех, которыми восхищаешься, но в то же время они приводят тебя в ужас.
Definitely not a book that I would recommend. It was so very depressing and just hard to get through as the main character "Brodie" engulfed the whole book and this character had not one redeeming quality. This was one of A.J. Cronin's earlier works and leaves a lot to be desired in his writing ability.
excellent novel, one of the best ever written
Being a long term Mr Cronin's fan ever since my younger years, I must say that this is his best book.His writing and his narrating skills were amazing.The best thing, though, was the characters development.First off, let me start with a talk about, the main character, the "Hatter" himself, Mr James Brodie.Selfish, abusive, self indulged man who ruined his family and his life.
A delusional man who in the end, received a full tragic blow.Best book, very depressing and I certainly don't recommend this tragedy to anyone who is already depressed, anyway it was a very worthy read and I loved it!!.
J. Cronin with Dickens.
I found this book to have well drawn characters and beautiful descriptions, but the narrative is much more compelling than that of Dickens.It is a story of a self obsessed and cruel father who is the cause of his own downfall, but also sadly, of all his family.The plot is shocking yet totally plausible and shows the weaknesses and delusions of mankind and how victims can be ground down so that they in turn become cruel and selfish.And yet it is an enjoyable read, partly due to the goodness and forbearance in some of other characters.
*** means I liked it, but I didn't like it.
The stars are because of his writing and storytelling ability and character development.
But you'll be hard pressed to find a book as depressing as this one.
The Judas Tree comes close.
It is another of his writings.
A mean tempered louse, full of pride and horrible treatment of his family as what James Brodie is all about.
It is AJ Cronin's first book.
There are some good people in the book, thankfully, which overshadow the brute character of Mr. Brodie.
It's not a book I would care to read again.
Четейки "Замъкът на шапкаря" противоречиви чувства се зараждаха в мен.
Имаше моменти, в които не харесвах книгата и други, когато не можех да я оставя...Тя предизвика в мен гняв, омраза, съчувствие, съжаление...Не съм сигурна кой ме дразнеше най-много: Джеймс, Мама, Мат, Денис или Баба.
Тъмна книга, която доказва, че огромното Его е гибелно, както за притежателя му, така и за хората около него.
Там където има Его, няма любов.
А Мери?
Още в началото й симпатизирах, та до края.
В немалкото страници, когато я нямаше, ми липсваше.
Добре, че е тя, за да видиш светлина в такъв дълъг и тъмен тунел.
I read it in spring and i still cant stop thinking about it. The writing is unbelievably detailed and beautiful,the story-breathtaking and keeps your attention with a million surprising plot twists.I felt so much reading this,anger,fear,sadness. Sure it's not the happiest and light-hearted of novels but definentley worth a read,because even if you don't like the story you can enjoy Cronins amaizing writing
This is a quite interesting novel with a clear moral. It is basically telling in every page "Look what it can happen for those that have a high self esteem doubled by vanity and a big amount of stupidity". This is why I believe it is mostly a good reading for teenagers. I consider myself a teenager as well, although biologically this is not entirely true, so I enjoyed the novel as if I would have read it 10 years ago.
what an emotional journey. I was wrought out from the very beginning. now I'm going to hide out in my blanket fort for a day or two.
Когда человек человеку волкПсихологическая драма.
Дальнейшее развитие сюжета только подтвердит эту истину.Джеймс, я думаю, противен всем читателям.
Раздутое самомнение, презрение к окружающим, грубость, гордыня - нехороший человек, в общем.
Конечно, это персонаж где-то гиперболизированный, но на самом деле не так уж он и далёк от жизни, встречаются и хуже.
Хотя и миссис Броуди человек по сути безгрешный, но зашуганный мужем.Что интересно, я только к половине книги узнал какой год на дворе.
Сначала думал, что первая четверть 20-го века.
Оказалось, 1880-ые.По атмосфере этот роман мне снова напомнил Грозовой перевал и Тринадцатую сказку (которые похуже будут).В общем, добротная книженция.
Một tấn bi kịch.Hết 1/3 truyện mình vẫn nghĩ Mary mới là nhân vật chính.
Không phải một câu chuyện mới lạ gì, một người đàn ông độc đoán, ích kỷ, một bà mẹ chồng già và xấu tính, một bà mẹ nhu nhược, yếu đuối, một anh con quen được chiều chuộng, và một cô gái nhỏ phải gánh chịu tấn bi kịch kia.Những con người không hề lạ, chỉ là lần đầu tiên thấy họ trở thành nhân vật chính, được miêu tả từ đầu tới cuối.
Libro che ho amato. L'ho trovato nella libreria di qualcuno della mia famiglia, forse mia nonna, e l'ho letto così, senza averne un'idea. Lo stile è molto diverso, perché l'epoca è lontana, ma è avvincente nella narrazione, coinvolgente nello stimolare indignazione, frustrazione, voglia di ribellione verso tanta ingiustizia.Accettate le lacrime e la rabbia come parte del tragitto che farete con questa storia. Sono certa che chiuderete l'ultima pagina con il senso di sazietà che deriva da una buona lettura. Ottima.
This was the first grown up book I read in my early teens and I have been a Cronin Fan ever since. I have over the years re-read this and other Cronin books and for me he is a master of story telling. Hatters Castle is one of my best ever books!
Like Dicken's ,Cronin is a master story-teller. He drew the figure of Jams Brodie vividly, who is a man filled with greed , lust, & vanity. It is a dark story . It can be depressing to read due to Brodie's cruelty, especially to his family. .
Terribile e disperato, grande capacità dell'autore di farti vedere la vicenda come se te ne trovassi nel bel mezzo assieme ai personaggi, vivi come persone. Stupendo.
One of my favorites. Story, language, charakters - amazing combination.
Много тъжна книга! Невероятна разрушителна сила,себелюбие и гордост,които не ти позволяват да обичаш дори собствените си деца...
This is the kind of book that makes you say "Uff... why in earth did he do that?". It is close to perfect. It is a thriler, a drama, a personality and parenting war.
MY favourite
O carte bine scrisa, dar greu digerabila din cauza cruzimii de care poate da dovada personajul principal in repetate randuri, pana la final.
Very good book. A little dark and depressing but worth reading.
