https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/103171.Northwest_Passage
Not being terribly familiar with North America, especially that of the wild days of the late 18th century, just before the American War of Independence, I read this book with an open atlas at my elbow.
The third part is a denouement, telling a love story of the first person of the narrative, Langdon Towne, and his finding peace in a troubled continent.It was not only America that I learned more of, but Americans, too.
Americans' excessive religiosity, the idea that they were chosen of God, parallels that of the Boers of South Africa in the early 19th century, who also sought to escape the clutches of British despotism and to find their own northeast passage.
I then proceeded to read everything else by Roberts I could find.
He portrays the good and bad in all those he writes of and captures and venality and corruption in war that are inseparable companions to bravery and decency.
These books were my real education in history and beat the pants off of the textbooks of the day.
There are other works by Roberts just as good, foremost among them the monumental Oliver Wiswell; a more complete look at the Revolutionary War than most of that or this day.
Read this book and discover an author you should know more about.
I’ve learnt to be very cautious when picking up a book written by a journalist of our present day.I found this book to be riveting reading; which given the length of this novel is a good thing!.
Alfred Hitchcock) was a completely different story!I’ve never before or since read a novel, let alone such a compelling and epic text, on the subject of unexplored America in the eighteenth century: the Americans vs the Brits vs the French, & all vs the native ‘Indians’ (who of course weren’t Indian at all), which is where this novel triumphs by including a search for the mythical North-West Passage.The narrative of this book is vivid; sometimes uncomfortably, even horribly so.
I loved the book the second time around, too.The dramatic focus are the events surrounding Major Robert Rogers' Rangers' raid on the village of St. Francis along the St. Lawrence River in early October of 1759.
The Rangers (precursors to today's US Army Rangers) endured incredible hardships leading up to the attack, but nothing like the constant terror that accompanied being pursued (and butchered, if caught) by hundreds of French soldiers and Abenaki Indians bent on revenge after they found St. Francis burned, winter food stores destroyed, and most inhabitants killed.
Robert Rogers is not much talked about these days, and so far as I know was never taught in schools.
Despite what the school books imply, it was never a given that Britain would control North America.
And the picture of the American wilderness of those years is something everyone should see.
The opening half of the book--a harrowing tale of wilderness survival against all odds--has gone into the records as one of the greatest in American literature, all the more telling because true.
So long ago I read this book, it was one book that I got as a gift when I was young that I truly enjoyed. The story of Landon Towne and his "little trip" with Major Robert Rogers and the Rangers, would set the imagination of any young man on fire, as it did mine. It later inspired me to track the story of Robert down and of course it takes a sad down turn as so many did. Still this story of determination, courage, duty not to mention cruelty and madness is still a good one.
The first part deals with Robert Rogers' St. Francis raid- our fictional protagonist joins Roger's Rangers on the eve of their raid on St. Francis.
In this first half (350 pages) of the novel, author Roberts deftly explores tensions between the British regulars and their Provincial counterparts; as well as portraying the ambivalent attitudes of both toward Native Americans.
The book started to lose me in the second half, however.
This second part of the tale could have been told much more efficiently; it was hampered by a contrived, melodramatic romance and repetitive ruminations on the relationships between Indians and whites in the Western territories.
I almost gave up on the second half of the book.
The best fiction makes us think without realizing that we're doing it.In finishing Northwest Passage I was struck by a pair of sentences written in the last five pages of the novel that seemed to jump out at me as representative of what this country has become.In the first, the character Ann Potter rails against King George's England, which she refers to as "this land where nobody gets anything except by the accident of birth or favoritism" and "where noblemen think less of the poor than they do of dogs." We persistently believe in this country that a) it is still true that anyone can attain anything regardless of what they are born into, and b) that there is no such thing as privilege.
Supposedly the second book is not close but I heard similar complaints about Oliver Wiswell.The book is less predictable than his other titles but the best thus far is still Rabble in Arms.Usually, the lead is just a foil for the excellent supporting cast.
In this case the lead is his best so far.
The love story is better developed than in previous offerings.
One person who is really heroic is barely noticed unless you are carefully reading the book.The oft criticized second book is much better than advertised.It is an excellent experience and should be read first by Roberts fans.
Another great boook by this author. My darling husband found it for me in an antique shop! I loved the perspective of the main character when he found his hero, turned antagonist in a debtor's prison, "so low that a man could go no lower this side of the grave." His forgiveness was apparent as he expressed, "I suspected, there in that same grime, but for the grace of God, might lie any of us, our talents quenched and our best dreams beaten." p. 694
I was lucky enough to read this in my youth, another one of those books that came my way, when I think of it something or somebody must have been passing these along to me, was it my eye or providence that lead me to these books. I know it has left an impression that has been with me all this time, I think I just identified with central character, then to get the chance to go and walk on the the same ground. Life is beautiful don't you just love being alive? Oh and reading books of course.
This is a historical novel about the French and Indian Wars and Major Robert Roberts and his Rangers in particular. While Rogers has setbacks Roberts introduces Langdon Towne, a Harvard-educated artist who demonstrates the heroism needed for the adversities encountered in the Northwest Territories. Growing up in Wisconsin I found this an exciting part of the history of my home state.
I enjoyed this book even though it wasn't quite what I expected. It's called Northwest Passage, but it really has very little to do with the Northwest Passage. Go figure. Other than that small quibble, I really liked the characters and the story kept me turning the pages!
This book was recommended to me by my father. I was doubtful and expected it to be boring. On the contrary, it had a little bit of everything--adventure, romance, history--I loved every minute of it and was sad to see it come to an end. It is an epic, sweeping story. Stellar in every way.
Never having heard of Roberts (1885-1957), I "Wikipedia-ed" him only to learn that he graduated from Cornell University, wrote two fight songs for them & was a member of the Quill & Dagger Society; that he was a lieutenant in the intelligence section of the WW I American Expeditionary Force Siberia during the Russian Civil War instead of at the front in Europe; that he was the first American journalist to cover the 1923 Beer Hall Putsch, Adolf Hitler's first attempt to take power; that he'd written 8 key historical novels in addition to many more books; that he'd been a journalist, working for Saturday Evening Post; and that he was born & died in Kennebunk, Maine.There was one other fact I learned which set up an immediate mental prejudice against him, almost causing me not to even read this book: "...Roberts wrote many magazine articles and a book during the period immediately following World War I that urged strong legal restrictions on immigration from eastern and southern Europe, and from Mexico, and warning of the dangers of immigration from places other than northwestern Europe.
George Washington rose to prominence in these wars, and this book is about a much less known man from the time: Robert Rogers.
Rogers had a military unit he called his "Rangers" and they wore greenish uniforms, lived off the land, and basically were guerrilla fighters or Indian fighters who preferred the tomahawk over the rifle (Mel Gibson's character in The Patriot was this kind of soldier).The book is ostensibly about an artist, and is told from his point of view, but in truth it is really about Rogers, a largely-forgotten figure who was a truly amazing leader and soldier.
There is some controversy about his achievements and actions even to this day.The book is engaging and easy to read, with plausible period characters as well as attitudes and language.
Interesting story based in history of Robert Rogers and his Rangers in pre Revolution USA.
The writing style of kenneth Roberts is at times is riveting then can become quite bogged down.
I felt at times his detail to accuracy rather like a history lesson which while intriguing and informative rather dry and dull.
However I plodded on with it and found a resemblance to Diana Gabaldon style in the long winded and precise telling of story.
Nothing stood out to me as remarkable in the author's style.
I think it was on a reading list for college preparation and also an adventure book.
I remember liking the adventure part of the book, and the setting, in the old (colonial or early United States) Northwest Territories (Ohio, Michigan, Indiana, Illinois and Wisconsin) and especially appreciating the description of the reality of almost starving to death back then, when things went wrong on a trek, when food and help were not nearly so abundant in the world.I also liked the book reference(s?) in the story.
Northwest Passage is an epic story of early North America during the French and Indian War. I’ve never read better historical fiction than that written by Kenneth Roberts.
As you join the story of Langdon Towne the research the author has done becomes apparent immediately and forgotten as quick as your taken into an adventure of exploration, the politics behind the shaping of men’s lives in America and England that slowly begin building the causes of the Revolutionary War. The novel gives you much more than “the history of...” Just as all Roberts books, I didn’t want it to end.
This is the best book I've read in quite some time. Roberts did an exemplary job of fleshing out the characters and fine work of bringing even the scenery to life. I've been intrigued by Major Robert Rogers and his Rangers since watching the series called Turn which is set during the American Revolution. This book gives readers a look at events prior and is really interesting. The author shows the man and his many facets. I've enjoyed Kenneth Roberts Arundel, but this one surpasses it. I highly recommend this book.
Ending was poorI enjoyed this book and enjoyed his descriptive style. The ending was poor and written as a series. I would have preferred a single book that Langdon actually made it through to the northwest passage.
Enjoyed it- though many references to other races were indeed, from another less evolved time. A bit long, but the first half is great early American history. I liked Rabble At Arms a bit better.
This is a great book, that tales readers back into history during a tumultuous time. The author does an amazing job with the feel of this book and taking readers into not only the tragedies but the amazing partnership of those just trying to protect the country.
Excellent narrative
I read this originally 20 yrs ago and it was even better this time. In my all time top 5 favorite books!!!!
It's a great character study spanning a frontier wartime adventure in 1759 and then a descent into drink, ambition and other personal dissolution in the second half.Robert Rogers was one of the most colourful figures in what were then the American colonies — the founder of a specialized military group he called the Rangers, and later one of the most determined of the many people who thought they could find a "Northwest Passage" through North America to Japan, China and the East Indies.
Lo que al parecer quiere contar, si nos guiamos por el título es el descubrimiento por parte del capitán Robert Rogers, fundador de los Rangers, de una ruta hacia el Océano Pacífico por el Noroeste de Norteamérica como una forma rápida de llegar a Japón desde las colonias inglesas para así aumentar el tráfico comercial con Asia.Lo que en realidad cuenta es:Primeras 300 páginas: una expedición de castigo para destruir un campamento indio que previamente había masacrado a una población de colonos.Siguientes 200 páginas: un intermedio en el que la acción se desplaza a Londres donde Rogers busca dinero para su paso al Noroeste y el otro protagonista y narrador, un aficionado a la pintura, trata de mejorar su técnica pictórica.Últimas 200 páginas (que no he alcanzado): la expedición al Noroeste propiamente dicha.
I remember my father reading each new Kenneth Roberts book as it was published; the books sat on a bookshelf in my parents’ home and eventually found their way to me.
Langdon Towne, a former Harvard student with an aptitude for art, leaves his home town of Portsmouth, NH in a hurry because of some political remarks that he makes which are overheard by the wrong persons.
He joins up with Robert Rogers and his Rangers, who are on their way to St. Francis, in Quebec, to fight the Indians.
The first part of the book, about the Indian fighting in Quebec, was gripping.
Today this book would be published as two novels, but in the late 1930s novels weren't taken seriously if they were less than 600 pages.
I would give Book Two four stars.
It's a fast-paced account of the raid conducted by Rogers' Rangers on the Abenaki village of St. Francis in October 1759.
The author was known as a stickler for historical accuracy in his novels, but his story tends to follow the exaggerated account of the raid’s success later made by Rogers.
That’s accurate, because the life of Robert Rogers ended that way, but it does not make for great reading.
Langdon Towne, a former Harvard student with an aptitude for art, leaves his home town of Portsmouth, NH in a hurry because of some political remarks that he makes which are overheard by the wrong persons.
He joins up with Robert Rogers and his Rangers, who are on their way to St. Francis, in Quebec, to fight the Indians.
Langdon goes to London to study painting at the urging of John Singleton Copley, and there meets Rogers again.
The first part of the book, about the Indian fighting in Quebec, was gripping.
