https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/835458.The_Pursuit_of_Love
“Always either on a peak of happiness or drowning in black waters of despair they loved or they loathed, they lived in a world of superlatives.” Nancy Mitford, unlucky in love, like many of her heroines.Nancy Mitford had five sisters and one brother and when you look her up on wikipedia all of her siblings are in blue which of course means that wikipedia has a worthy entry for each one of them. They were certainly a talented, artistic family, and if this book is any indication also quick with th
The Mitford SistersFanny is the narrator and is reminded all the time how fortunate she is.”Oh, you are so lucky, to have wicked parents.” Her mother is referred to throughout most of the book as “The Bolter” as she runs through marriages like a crazed colt intent on escaping any form of stanchion.
Blue, a good colour, but small.”“In England,” said Linda, “I am considered a beauty.”“Well, you have points.”
I will most assuredly be reading book two in the series Love in a Cold Climate.My GR friend Michael Edwards shared a great story about Queen of England choosing this Mitford for reading.
Nancy Mitford's The Pursuit of Love is about love and loss, about family unity, about memories and senseless consequences. A very worthy theme, for love is what enriches our memories and memories what sustains our lives. There they are, held like flies, in the amber of that moment – click goes the camera and on goes life; the minutes, the days, the years, the decades, taking them further and further from that happiness and promise of youth, from the hopes Aunt Sadie must have had for them, and f
Even Uncle Mattew acknowledge the change.‘If I were the Bolter,’ he said, ‘I should marry him.’The thing that made me think is that, despite the differences, we know people like those depicted by Mitford in her novel.
The Radletts, who were always either on a peak of happiness or drowning in black water of despair, are so like many people out there: parents that don’t prepare their children for the realities of life.
RESEÑA COMPLETA: https://cronicasdemagrat.wordpress.co...Me lo he pasado demasiado bien con este libro como para no darle la máxima puntuación posible. Es ingenioso, ligero, divertido... pero con destellos de una realidad terrible (La Guerra Civil española con sus refugiados, el auge del fascismo, la Segunda Guerra Mundial...).Es un libro lleno de personajes ridículos y maravillosos (tío Matthew y Lord Merlin INOLVIDABLES), totalmente british. Realmente creo que si Jane Austen hubiera nacido en el siglo XX hubiera escrito algo así.
(Mitford is confident that discerning readers will know, without being told, that one must instead say writing-paper, chimneypiece, looking-glass and scent; and instead of spending a weekend at Alconleigh, you will be invited to spend ‘a Saturday to Monday’ there.)Uncle Matthew is not a literary man – the only book he's ever read is White Fang – and I did enjoy the passage where he was dragged to a performance of Romeo and Juliet:It was not a success.
They are the same age, and together they will navigate the turbulent waters of Victorian social conventions in the years after the first World War in search of the safe harbour of the perfect marriage, the perfect husband and the perfect love story.I picked up the book expecting the kind of funny and laidback summer entertainment that I get from P G Wodehouse and from the pre-War Hollywood screwball comedies : rich people in sumptuous mansions flirting endlessly while the reality of hunger and strife and violence seems to belong to a different planet.
SUMMARY FROM THE BOOK Nancy Mitford’s most enduringly popular novel, The Pursuit of Love is a classic comedy about growing up and falling in love among the privileged and eccentric. Mitford modeled her characters on her own famously unconventional family. We are introduced to the Radletts through the eyes of their cousin Fanny, who stays with them at Alconleigh, their Gloucestershire estate. Uncle Matthew is the blustering patriarch, known to hunt his children when foxes are scarce; Aunt Sadie i
Uncle Matthew is the blustering patriarch, known to hunt his children when foxes are scarce; Aunt Sadie is the vague but doting mother; and the seven Radlett children, despite the delights of their unusual childhood, are recklessly eager to grow up.
The first of three novels featuring these characters, The Pursuit of Love follows the travails of Linda, the most beautiful and wayward Radlett daughter, who falls first for a stuffy Tory politician, then an ardent Communist, and finally a French duke named Fabrice
THERE is a photograph in existence of Aunt Sadie and her six children sitting round the tea-table at Alconleigh.
That said, I know that I read Love in a Cold Climate when I was about fifteen, although I remember absolutely nothing about the book.
It was, therefore, a bit of a surprise to realise that this novel is the first in a trilogy of which Love in a Cold Climate is the second book.
This is the story of the intensely romantic Linda Radlett's "pursuit of love" in the 1920s and 1930s.
The eccentric Radletts are based on Mitford's even more eccentric family.
And the great love of Linda's life - Fabrice Sauveterre - is based on Mitford's lover, Gaston Palewski.
I came to this because a) never read mitfords, b) love the whole daft-country-manor-in-the-thirties genre, c) mother of narrator here is real-life Lady Idina Sackville http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...
(Uncle Matthew, lord of the manor, a colonel-blimp who gnashes his way thru a couple sets of dentures a year --- has set up an excercise called the 'Child Hunt' on the estate, to air the horses, run the dogs, and keep the children in line.
Good show.)Overall a simple coming-of-age story, but complete with manor-house, acreage, staff, stables, dreary weather, beastly, titled adults, and wildly inappropriate children.
Tiene ese punto de humor inglés, ligereza narrativa y personajes excéntricos que me encanta.Sí, puede que a ratos sea un puntito demasiado cínico y el final no levante el ánimo, precisamente, pero ese final era previsible a partir de cierto punto en la historia y no consigue empañar las partes cómicas de la novela.
Las Mitford tienen material para esta novela y otras 50 más.Tal vez no sea para todo el mundo, que a algunas personas les parezca aburrida o que se toma con demasiada ligereza temas muy serios (el fascismo y la guerra, por ejemplo), pero es mi tipo de droga.
Here it is, although I should warn you that it contains a hint of spoilers in it, not that this book is one where spoilers are exactly a thing:She was filled with strange, wild, unfamiliar happiness, and knew that this was love.
(view spoiler)[(“I’ve had 11 months of perfect and unalloyed happiness, very few people can say that in the course of long, long lives, I imagine," Linda says at one point, which I agree with and it's very sad.

Really quite wonderful. I had no idea what to expect from Nancy Mitford, knowing that people are divided over her type of comedy. Luckily it was exactly the sort of comedy that I like, and I found my first experience with her fabulous and so incredibly funny. I also unknowingly read this first without realizing that it's the first in a series of stories about the same characters - I cannot wait to read 'Love in a Cold Climate.'
OK, I do not like writing reviews of books I detest, and so I will try and keep this brief.
The humor and the events as the book nears its end turn the whole into a circus performance.I don't mind reading a good love story, if it is good.
In this story we follow several girls of the Radlett family, each in the pursuit of love.
I want to feel empathy for a book's characters.
If I wasn't recoiling with displeasure I was laughing at the antics, at the characters and how the story was unfolding.
This makes life a tale of continuity; not worth breaking one’s heart over the pain it gives but embracing the happiness that always shimmers on the plane of human love and relationships.
Linda herself provides lots of humor to the story with her conflicting though non-existent alternative ideologies with the capitalist Kroesigs and the indifference and boredom she finds in the company of her Left-wing husband Christian and his comrades.'Darling, I am being disloyal, but it is such heaven to have a chat after all these months.
I think Linda grabbed that day that I took years to learn: the behavior of a civilized man has nothing to do with nature. All is artifice and more or less artistry.
This is at least the third time I’ve read The Pursuit of Love - the Mitford novel which remains my favourite, and for me, the quintessence of the Mitford charm and style.
I vividly remember the first time I read it: it was a foul October’s day in 1999 and we had just returned to England after three years of summer in the Caribbean.
And yet Davey is a wonderful character, too, and every bit as eccentric as Uncle Matthew.Perhaps I don’t love this novel as much as I did when I first discovered it, nearly twenty years ago, but it is still a great comfort read and a true sentimental favourite.
Sigo encontrándome títulos leídos de hace años, antes de tener la aplicación, sin puntuar.
Creo que debo partir la valoración de este libro en dos términos:-Técnica narrativa y estilo literario: 5 Estrellas.-Capacidad para emocionarme: 1 Estrellas.Es la primera vez que me encuentro tanta diferencia entre lo brillante que me parece la escritura y lo poco (o nada) que me importa lo que suceda en la novela y lo cierto es que estoy confusa y que creo que es un tema muy subjetivo.Nancy Miford, la autora de la novela, tuvo una vida interesantísima y ese es el motivo por el que esta novela tuvo tanto éxito cuando se publicó (es en gran parte autobiográfica).
I rather enjoyed that one, but somehow wasn’t in the mood for Mitford this time around, and ended up just skimming this one.
This time it’s Linda Radlett, whose two marriages – to a Conservative and a Communist – are doomed to failure.
The last two pages of this novel turn particularly nasty, though, which made me wonder how people can call this a comfort read.A favorite quote: “The Radletts were always either on a peak of happiness or drowning in black waters of despair; their emotions were on no ordinary plane, they loved or they loathed, they laughed or they cried, they lived in a world of superlatives.”
Sharp, witty, and a real eye-opener into a certain aristocratic mindset. "We were all terrible snobs in those days". And the derision of the vulgarity of a cottage with a spring-flowering garden. How common! One's home should be cold and pragmatic. Kind of hilarious.
Oh, how I liked that book, it was everything I expected and everything I needed at the time.It's witty and charming and I loved every single chcracter (Linda escecially, she's a babe).I don't know what else to say, you should just read it.
Catching up with the classics # 243.5 starsI read love in a cold climate out of order and there was no issue.
Catching up with the classics # 243.5 starsI️ read love in a cold climate out of order and there was no issue.
Fanny – our narrator – having been dumped by her mother The Bolter (a thinly disguised Lady Idina Sackville) has been brought up by her aunt Emily, and spends holidays with her cousins the Radletts at Alconleigh a large uncomfortable house in the country.
Of the Raddlett children Linda is the one closest to Fanny, a hopeless romantic, she is destined to marry badly twice before finding the love of her life.
Growing up with her cousins running slightly wild at Alconleigh –when not living quietly with her dear Aunt Emily, Fanny learns about love through Linda, before marrying her own quiet Oxford Don.
But in The Pursuit of Love, just one of eldest sister Nancy’s novelisations of her fabulously bizarre family, little details like Uncle Matthew’s tendency to “hunt” the children are hardly twee set-dressing; that was taken directly from life with the Mitfords.At this point, I’ve read some of Nancy’s other novels, plus Jessica’s memoir of their upbringing (Hons and Rebels), plus Mary S.
Lovell’s biography of the whole crew (The Sisters), plus Jo Walton’s fictional take on some Mitford-esque ladies and their hapless political intrigue (Ha’penny).
The Pursuit of Love felt a little like The Mitfords’ Greatest Hits: The Early Years.
I regard The Pursuit of Love as a pristine example of hilarity upheld with a fist. Chuckles pervade on almost every page while always reinforcing life's injustice. The risible drifts into a bruised silence. In very unequal measures, The Pursuit of Love is much more Candide than Emma.
One of my favorite styles of writing, this British witty, charming and wise view of life, society and human.
Fortunately, Nancy Mitford's style of writing and her characters were so wonderful that the fact that sometimes I knew what would happen didn't spoil my joy of reading.
It was like Nancy Mitford was creating me a world, telling me what should I think (who is good or bad) and then she looked at me and told: 'No, it isn't that simple, you judge some people badly only because you know them less or/and you know them only from hearing.' (If you have read it, you know what I mean, if you didn't I will not spoil it to you.)‘One always thinks that.
4.5* A witty social satire about an idiosyncratic, upper-class family, growing up between the wars.
Fanny is the narrator, telling us about her holidays with her cousins family at their home in Gloucestershire, and later their coming out season in London and Linda's pursuit of love.
The novel takes a more serious turn about halfway through.
(Love never does run smoothly).
It is loosely based on the authors own experiences.
The 'Child Hunts', where the children would lay a trail and be hunted by their Father on horseback, with a couple of Bloodhounds, apparently really did happen (and sound like great fun).
I was hooked by the first paragraph:There is a photograph in existence of Aunt Sadie and her six children sitting round the tea-table at Alconleigh.
In the photograph Aunt Sadie’s face, always beautiful, appears strangely round, her hair strangely fluffy, and her clothes strangely dowdy, but is unmistakably she who sits there with Robin, in oceans of lace, lolling on her knee.
It had Angelica Kauffman ceilings, a Chippendale staircase, furniture by Sheraton and Hepplewhite; in the hall there hung two Watteaus; there was no entrenching tool to be seen, nor the head of any animal.
The main character is insufferable; I think we are supposed to love her?
The main character is the type of character for whom the writer is constantly telling us that everyone loves because of a "special spark" or something, yet does not convey--show--in the text.
Perhaps I dislike her mostly because she is a terrible mother; and yet we are told to accept that it is okay that she is a terrible mother, almost because her fat, unlikable child warrants being unliked.It has a few moments of wry humor, but not enough to redeem the novel, or the main character, in any way.
This is the 1st of Mitford's novels about the eccentric Radlett family, closely modeled on her own.
Unlike many coming of age/family novels, this one is not highly emotional or sentimental.
It's a cleverly written story and I did find myself chuckling often at the Radletts' antics and the witty writing at times.
For instance, one of the central characters in the book basically deserts her child and the reaction among the family seems to consist mostly of the occasional disapproving comment and the mother's jokes about the child's awkwardness.
