https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/219362.Legion
PRE-READWhen Ben asked me if I wanted to buddy read this scary as f*ck story, naturally, I said,...
Commencing on the 25th of August.*looks at Ben and mouths* If I lose night sleepS, you're in big trouble, StahlPOST - READ Yes. I have indeed ran to the wrong direction.
I was barely in my teens and enjoying Mills and Boons stories when he gave it to me and said this is a better read {side note: why does everyone seem to pick on my reads?}Anyways, my epic of a brother kept feeding me all these scary sh*t info whilst reading that I  felt  was truly traumatized.
RIP for the author, he dished out some chilling stories.We all remember the bizarre and relentless Lieutenant Kinderman from the original story.
As he follows the crime, he runs into a truly unsettling shock.It's funny that the strength of philosophy in Kinderman's character and the storyline both upped and downed it.
Obviously Blatty would work religion into this book.There's a sad death here to hated to hear about, and the poor soul was offed in a horrible way.
Unfortunately the story is a little cheesy in some ways, and the Exorcist is more original (in its time), but this was a worthy follow-up that deserves a read.Oh, and love the stepback
A police detective, Lieutenant Kinderman, investigates these crimes and ends up visiting a mental asylum, where there are a couple of possible suspects and some connections to the exorcism of a certain Regan MacNeil began to form...First of all, William Peter Blatty is now one of my favourite authors.
I guess such a topic isn't for everyone, but you can enjoy both The Exorcist and Legion even if that's not your style.Having previously watched The Exorcist 3 and having LOVED it, I went into this book with a general idea of what I was getting into (The Exorcist 3 is, of course, based on Legion), but that in no way dampened my reading experience.
The book is well written and the transitions from the rabbit trails (which seem to be the reason for this book) to the main storyline are cohesive and often times so rapid it's startlingly subtle.
Even IF this book had picked up the day after The Exorcist and continued the exact same story, just due to the way it's written, it wouldn't feel the same.
Do not expect to be scared by this book, or if it starts to get uncomfortable, at least know it's very likely the next five pages will be so senselessly unrelated to the story that any suspense you were feeling will be replaced by a quiet sigh and the question of when you can return to the book you thought you had purchased.
A polished supernatural mystery with an easy reading style that keep the pages turning.
I would have given this five stars except for segments of introspection and Jungian philosophy filler.
This is concentrated at the start though, and can be easily avoided (unless it's your thing).This was also the basis for the movie, The Exorcist III, starring George C Scott heading an all-star cast, with an especially memorable appearance by the always creepy Brad Dourif.
It has some terrifying scenes, including a jaw-dropping hallway clip that I still remember vividly.Those who like their mysteries with a world weary detective, a bit of supernatural, and a grimdark tone, I highly recommend Legion.
This novel scared the beans out of me. It had me questioning myself, faith, society, everything. Not many books have had that type of impact on me.
But with Legion - (incidentally I originally read this before the first novel) - I found myself mostly surprised that I had loved it so much the first time.
Every now and then, things do start getting interesting and exciting - (occasionally, though not often enough, even scary) - but Blatty unceasingly halts these moments with completely unnecessary philosophical speculations which hardly make sense to a reader approaching this book with expectations implanted from the spellbinding first novel.
And so at the end of the day, I have to admit that I was still, for the most part, disappointed that I did not enjoy this half as much on reading it a second time.
"The Exorcist" scared the bejeebers out of me when I read it many years ago.
"Legion" was Blatty's sequel (as opposed to the nonsensical theatrical sequel with Richard Burton) and it haunted me for slightly different reasons.
The protagonist might well be going through some kind of brain malignancy, and Blatty describes some odd neural phenomena as well as introducing the necessary supernatural stuff.
I actually think this was a much better structured and composed book than "Exorcist." Also, being a Georgetown alumnus, I got a kick out of the real-life ubiquitous Hoya booster and tavernkeeper Richard McCooey being a suspect in the killings.
I loved this book. The philosophical questions about good and evil and God's role in both was wonderfully laid out. Kinderman is such stellar character. Although I did not like it as much as The Exorcist, I was pleasantly surprised by how well it held up in comparison. It's a mixture between a supernatural/possession novel and a murder/crime novel. Worth the read!!
The only reason I gave this 2 star instead of the more appropriate 1 is that I did finish the book (though I almost quit three times) and there were a few brief moments of "Wait it's getting better....aannndddd no...no it's not".Stupid Plot Summary:Annoying Jewish Homicide Detective (AJHD) Kinderman (K), the cryptic, rambling, tangential Homocide detective from the first novel (friend of Father Karas) is the central figure this time.
This isn't so much of a horror story but a cheap way for a devout Catholic writer to use AJHD-K to spoon feed us religious claptrap and pooh-pooh all that "science crap".
I had high hopes because I liked The Exorcist so much but this one wasn't the same quality.
He tells his partner that in the book The Brothers Karamazov, the brother Alyosha speaks to his friends about holding on to memories that help you keep your faith and belief in the goodness of the world.
He then tells them, 'First, and above all, be kind,' to which they all shout, 'Hurrah for Karamazov.' A beautiful end after all of the struggle and pain of the more horrifying element of this story, to see that the detective makes it through with his belief still intact.
This will only mean something to a select few, but I love interesting ideas about the beginning of the world.
This book is not scary, not terrifying and didn't really make much sense.The story centers on Detective Kinderman, a real mensch, he reads books like Waiting for Godot, he questions the nature of God and why evil exists he loves old movies.
I guess what makes this book so terrifying is that some evil force took possession of a dead priest who ended up in a psych ward as a John Doe bided its time then somehow manipulates these people into murdering people for it.
Don't believe the blurbs on the back of this book and pick up something else to read.
esas coincidencias que te da la vida son lo maximo y me emocione muchisimo con eso, pero luego simplemente la lectura volvió a decaer, no pasaba nada LITERALMENTE...y estaba pensando en que lo que quedaba de lectura iba a ser igual pero no fue asi.Aquí viene la parte buena del libro y es cuando volvemos a todo lo sucedido en ''El Exorcista'', leer otra vez sobre aquellos personajes memorables fue EPICO y me emociono mucho (DE NUEVO) desde este punto, te emocionas, te sorprendes, hay ciertos momentos que te dejan como :O OMG NO PUEDE SER CIERTO y eso fue muy muy bueno, pero a lo que iban pasando las páginas no podía dejar de preguntarme ¿Como iba acabar?, ¿Como iba a acabar?
"Legion" is a more successful work than the "The Exorcist III," the film adaptation of this book that author William Peter Blatty also directed.Studio meddling had something to do with the sloppiness of the film, but reading this novel reveals some of the faults lie in the source material.
This supernatural murder mystery starts strong, but Blatty seems to rush his way through the end.
The last third of the novel struck me as disjointed and less than satisfying.That said, Blatty expertly juggles theological ponderings with horror and suspense for most of the novel.
This is more or less a follow up to The Exorcist, and it's actually a great deal better than The Exorcist.
I do recommend reading the predecessor first, because a few fairly major plot points will have a lot more meaning and be much more interesting if you've first read The Exorcist.I love the character of Satan/Lucifer/The Devil in almost any work of literature, and any rumination about the nature of human or 'divine' evil, and this book delivers it.
If you like the horror genre and the crime fiction genre, you'll very likely enjoy this novel.
A thoughtful meditation on the nature of good, evil, and God, disguised as a horror-tinged thriller. That's not a criticism; it's essentially what "The Exorcist" was as well. Some characters carry over, but this is pretty much a standalone, with its own points to make. If you enjoy dense, digressive prose done well, then you'll like this.
I think this book was pretty neat, but even if it had sucked, it'd still have 5-star detective Kinderman. He reminds me of my dad, and that's the biggest compliment I could pay anyone.
This book was very hard to follow; between the detective's nonsense ramblings and the demons ramblings.
Wow! Just wow! I was blown away by this book. It pulled me in from the first page and I ended up finishing it in one sitting.
Many pages are devoted to the philosophical monologue of the main character about the meaning of life, death, and pain.
The murders occur sporadically throughout the work and the action doesn’t really start until about 200 pages in.
This leaves about 50 pages for Blatty to deliver a conclusion and he does.
The true heart of this work lies with its main protagonist Lieutenant Kinderman, a Jewish man devoted to his family and friends whose calm demeanor is slowly being chipped away from his job.
What I take away the most from ‘Legion’ is Blatty’s underappreciated wit.
I was SOOO disappointed with this book, and doubly so given The Exorcist is my all time favorite horror novel.
I mean, he could have written the first 74% of the book (yes, I measured) in two chapters (f that) and then just started writing the bulk of the novel from that point onward (coincidently a strong suggestion if you haven't read it yet).
It was like a haunted house amusements ride that's a total bore fest and you can't wait to get out, pissed you actually spent money on it, until the very end when it gets REALLY good but then the doors open and you're outside again.
This is a verbose and rambling novel, with characters that are clearly intended to be captivatingly real but aren't.
It takes itself far too seriously, both in the prose and in the protagonists overwhelmingly boring contemplations about life, science, and God. But the religious theory broached near the end is such a magnificent and hilariously logical burst of creativity that the novel might have something worthy of serious consideration after all.
The novel ultimately falls flat, due to its childish need to cover everything that could possibly come to the mind of a troubled and analytical being, in as many words as could shimmy through the author's mind.
No es precisamente una novela de terror, yo mas bien diria de detectives, esto no quiero decir que sea mala, tuvo sus partes buenas, aunque las primeras 100 paginas se me hicieron aburridas, en comparacion con la novela de "El exorcista" (ya que este es la secuela) creo que se quedo corto! :/
Repeated the success of The Exorcist this one did not. Far too complicated and long-winded. Does not keep the interest up.
If Amfortas were removed from the novel, nothing would change but the word count.Lieutenant Kinderman is presented somewhat better here than he was in THE EXORCIST, but his dialogue still comes off like someone doing a bad impression of a nebbishy Jewish person.
I also wish it had tied in a little better with the plot.
Ultimately, LEGION is a messy novel with a few good scenes and a couple of good chills, but not a novel I would recommend to anyone but Blatty completists or fans of Lt. Kinderman who want to see where his adventures take him after THE EXORCIST.
It's the feeling that you get when someone you absolutely detest is having a wonderful time without you.” Legion by William Peter Blatty is the novel about the death of a young boy who is found murdered in a horrific way.
This case begins to take some strange twists and turns and it falls on Lieutenant Kinderman to solve the case.Firstly I adore The Exorcist by William Batty and have seen the movies umpteen times.
William Blatty writes in such a unique way with his characters its places you directly into their minds and he makes you feel like you are that person.
Полнейший бред!!!!!!!!!!!!!В этой книге плохо всё! Давненько я не читал такой напыщенной чуши! Да и, в принципе, хорошая мистика мне ещё не попадалась.
Once more, the investigator from THE EXORCIST continues his mental struggle regarding the nature of Good and Evil…and why Evil is allowed to exist in the first place.
Lieutenant William Kinderman’s investigation follows not only who is responsible, but also why these horrors are allowed to exist…with a surprise twist along the way.LEGION is not as powerful a work as its predecessor.
This worked in THE EXORCIST because it was restricted and served as a bit of relief from the intensity of the story.
It had a lot to live up to based on THE EXORCIST, and it doesn’t deliver that level of intensity or completely believable characters.
When I started it, I must say I thought I had jumped into a simple murder mystery.
Sure, a bit stereotypical, but very entertaining.
He's a little bit Columbo from the old TV series and a Jewish Grandmother all mixed up into one.
Sure, I have nothing against murder mysteries, but being a sequel to the one of the best horror novels of all time, made me have very high expectations.
Alot of the enjoyment in reading this book, was how you find things out a little bit at a time, just when you think things are going in one direction, you will find yourself then pulled in another direction.
