https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/117833.The_Master_and_Margarita
In the end, The Master and Margarita is, by virtue of its own existence, a testament to the necessity of art in times of repression, and to the urgent need for artists to veer from cowardice and hold firmly to their commitment to living a true human life, with fantasy and reality combined, with history and invention feeding into each other, with good and evil providing the shadows and depth that make life meaningful and real.The Master and Margarita as Fairy TaleOne approach to The Master and Margarita that appeals to me is understanding it, in part, as a fairy tale.
EXTRA! EXTRA! This review has now been immortalized in audio format. Authentic Russian accent and Russian quotes are provided free of charge :) http://soundcloud.com/nataliyac/the-m...--------------------I'm staying home from work today, sick to the extreme, and it's only in that unique feverish clarity that comes with illness that I dare to even try to write about this book.This is THE book. The one that all the other books are measured against. The one that I've read more times since I was tw
The one that I've read more times since I was twelve than the number of books some people I know have read in their entire lives.
It is a story of Pontius Pilate (the equestrian, the son of the astrologist-king, the last fifth Procurator of Judea) who has achieved the dreaded immortality due to a single action (or rather INaction) and wishes nothing more than for it to not have happened.
He wrote it during the times when the reaction to such novels would have been the same as Woland has when hearing Master say he wrote a novel about Pontius Pilate:"About what, about what?
The second setting is the Jerusalem of Pontius Pilate, described by Woland in his conversations with Berlioz and later reflected in the Master's novel.
The rejection of his historical novel about Pontius Pilate and Christ had led the Master to such despair that he burned his manuscript and turned his back on the world, including his devoted lover, Margarita.
Bulgakov referred to his own apartment as one of the settings in the Moscow section of the novel.)Part two of the novel introduces Margarita, the Master's mistress.
The Chicago Tribune wrote: “The book is by turns hilarious, mysterious, contemplative and poignant, and everywhere full of rich descriptive passages.”Hilarious and contemplative my ass, CT.
I get that this book satirizes 1930s Stalinist Russia, and I get that—for some—this earns The Master and Margarita a place on their “works-of-historical-importance” shelves.
Although there is a point where some barely discernable personality traits become apparent in one or two of the characters, by the time the reader makes it this far the show is nearly over.
Bartenders, ticket sellers, poets, little old ladies—they are all ambushed.
I’m tired of even writing about this book.
«What’s confusing you is just THE NATURE OF MY GAME»«This song has a direct tie to the book, "the Master and the Margarita", is about all the history & tragedies with points throughout time.
Κοιταζόμαστε στον καθρέφτη βλέποντας τα πάθη και τις αμαρτίες μας.
Μαθαίνουμε ακράδαντα να πιστεύουμε πως το μεγαλύτερο αμάρτημα για τον καλό και τον κακό Θεό είναι μόνο η ΔΕΙΛΙΑ.
Ο Σατανάς πάντα δίπλα μας έκανε χρέη οικοδεσπότη και μεταφραστή.
Βασικό μειονέκτημα η θνητότητα μας που ίσως θεραπεύεται μόνο με πάθη και αμαρτίες.
همچنین نمی تواند براحتی به زبان روسی حرف بزند ولی وقتی !!!در خطر می افتد می بینم که به روسی فصیح درخواست کمک می کندداشتن ارز در روسیه زندان دارد و ولی برای بعضی ها نهو پیرمرد ادای خارجی ها را در می آورد تا مردم عادی چیزی نفهمند که چرا وی پولدار است و آنها نه!؟:کمی در مورد داستانمرشد مردی است که داستانی در مورد مسیح نوشته و می بیند منتقدان معروف نه براساس صداقت بلکه با ریا به داستانش حمله کرده انداین باعث می شود کارش به اندوه و جنون بکشداما در زندگی او که بی شباهت به مسیح نیست، منجی دیگری وجود دارد: یک زنو بولگاکف هم مانند ساراماگو در "کوری"، تنها راه نجات را در وجود زنی شجاع و فداکار می بیند..زنی که برای بدست آوردن عشقش، حاضر است به مهمانی ابلیس برودو یادمان نرود که ترس بزرگترین گناه است:تخیل و خلاقیت نویسندهفضای سوررئال این کتاب فوق العاده لذت بخشهبولگاکف در هر صحنه ای چیزی خلق می کنه که آدم انگشت به دهان می مونهدر یک کلام، محشرررره:نتیجهنوشتن کتاب 12 سال طول کشیده و این خود نشان می دهد که بولگاکف وسواس زیادی بخرج داده تا کتابش اجازه چاپ بگیرد.
Somewhere around 1930, the devil and his cronies descend on Moscow, putting the entire city on edge by their diabolical humor and ditto magic tricks.
Before the arrival of the devil, a “Master” wrote a novel about Pontius Pilate (this serene novel within the novel is entirely integrated in the story), which was dismissed by the regime, therefore sending the Master into a mental asylum.
A poet "Homeless", as he calls himself, and a magazine editor, his gruff boss, Berlioz, are having a conversation, in a quiet, nondescript Moscow park, just before the start of the Second World War. Drinking, just harmless sodas, and discussing business, ordinary right?
The charismatic professor, and his talented entourage, give the best magic show, on stage, ever seen in Moscow, by an astounded audience, it's so spectacular, incomprehensible and not explainable, that all the city wants to go also .
Meanwhile a married woman, Margarita, having an affair with an obscure, poor author, writing a novel, she calls him "Master", you guessed right , the book is about the Roman Governor of Judaea, Pontius Pilate.
Bulgakov lovingly loads each page with semi-auto-biographical frustrations and sharp irony as he unleashes the powers of hell upon Soviet Moscow.Inspired by the epic Faust in its various forms, notably the opera which our author frequently attended, Master and Margarita spins the story of a Mephistopheles, Woland, and his cohorts as they wreck havoc upon the Moscow.
For in the Pilate chapters, the reader will find a story that is seemingly biblical shorn of all religious implications and instead illuminating political plots and an attempt at a historically plausible event (the Master was a historian, or so he says) while the biblical allusions and quotations are found within the Moscow chapters instead.
But for me the book is less about the corruption of Soviet society and its attitude toward the Christian religion and more about the even more fundamental beliefs that are the unspoken tenets of story-telling, that is to say, the philosophy of literature.
In The Master and Margarita, Bulgakov echoes Jung exactly in Satan's criticism of the evangelist Matthew: "Would you be so kind as to give a little thought to the question of what your good would be doing if evil did not exist, and how the earth would look if the shadows were to disappear from it?
While reading it I saw somewhere that Salman Rushdie said it was a major influence for him in the writing of The Satanic Verses.
I speak here of "dekulakization," in which some 20 to 50 million people died, many succumbing to cannibalism, and the Moscow show trials so carefully dissected by Robert Conquest in his The Great Terror.
But I was oblivious to any such subtext while reading this novel.
But here we have a Moscow bursting with life, with people enjoying their lives.
But all that aside the book is finally unlike anything I have ever read before.

چگونه مىتوان عاشق ولند نبود؟ چگونه مىتوان آرزويش را نكرد؟ شيطانى كه با دستيارهايش جهان را از پاشنه در مىكند تا حق گردن كلفتها را بگذارد كف دستشان، گردن بزرگترينهاشان را به يك اشاره خرد كند، با شعبدههايش به ريششان بخندد و اين چهرههاى متشخص و جا افتاده را روانۀ تيمارستان كند، و از طرف ديگر، زير پا لهشدهها را، بىمنزلتترينها را، ديوانههاى تيمارستانى را، مطرودان و محرومان هميشگى را غرق پاکترين و كودكانهترين رؤياهاشان كند، و همراه خود پروازكنان از نزد مردمان فرومایه ببردشان، ببردشان، ببردشان تا ابرها،

The Master and Margarita by Soviet era writer Mikhail Bulgakov seems to inspire strong emotions though most critics and commentators have been impressed with the fantastic satire.
The premise is that Satan and his demonic retinue has come for a visit to Moscow and this visit is used by Bulgakov as a means to critically observe the Soviet Russians.
All in all, this is an important work, though it may not be timeless as many of the references to Soviet life were not clear to this 21st century suburban American.
This is (was) one of them (had I chosen to read the censored version, there would have been only 4.637 titles to haunt me—I wish I’d read the censored version.) And now the list is down to four titles—my personal List of Shame.Not since On the Road have I been so certain that a book would, indeed, go on forever.
Some rating approaching 2 stars—I was going to give it a 1-star rating, but the ending merited another fraction of a star—not the telling of the ending, which felt very much as though the author just kept writing until he could think of one, but rather, the FACT that an ending exists, it was way too long a time in coming.My humble apologies to those who love this book.
Collectivisation saw major inroads into personal and creative freedom, while the rest of the world looked on, not without its own problems, moving towards a second great war.The arts were expected to reinforce the culture of Socialism, and Socialist Realism was imposed on artists.The formal radicalism that had flowered at the same time as the Revolution was clipped and discarded.Only, one Mikhail Bulgakov found that Socialist Realism was not the appropriate vehicle for the tales he wanted to tell.Between 1928 and his death in 1940, Bulgakov started to construct his story his own way.He was capable of descriptive realism, but he had also mastered the fantasy stylings of fairy tales and the parable structure of the Bible.These styles flew around his head and poured onto the page, only to be rejected, altered, rearranged, burnt, rewritten, reconstructed and published in different iterations.His progress was plagued by both institutional and personal censorship.Still, the structure and substance of what he wanted to say was firmly etched in his mind.After one spate of burning, when he sat down to rewrite it, his wife asked how he could remember it.
لكن الدور الذي لعبه المعلم (الشيطان) يجعلني في شك من أمري وقد تكون رواية عابثة من ناحية الموضوع قوية من ناحية المعالجة السياسية إذا ما قسناها على الإتحاد.كذلك للرواية رسالة واضحة المعالم وهي عن الخير والشر وموقف أحدهما إذا ما غلب الثاني الأول أو العكس.أخيرًا نصيحة قارئ للنص.
The first time I read The Master and Margarita many years ago I saw it as a diamond in the rough. Rereading it now, I can see how brilliant that diamond really is.   Jubilee edition   It's difficult to explain the effect of this book. There is such a wild oscillation in it that swings us back and forth between two worlds: the world of Moscow - a wild circus with the devil Woland as ringmaster - and the world of Yershalaim (Jerusalem). These are fictional reinventions that retain a basic truth.Bu
The first time I read The Master and Margarita many years ago I saw it as a diamond in the rough.
Both Christian and Atheist get to see what a dog and pony show their ideas can be.The scenes with Pontius Pilate are poignant, and speak of the power of "goodness".
If The Master and Margarita has a sister book, it is The Idiot.
Enjoy Gounod's Faust and Andrei Petrov: The Master and Margarita Symphony-Fantasia.Read the book.
I love this book, but I won't assume you're an idiotic bigot if you think it sucks.
Hay ciertos autores que alcanzan la gloria eterna como es el caso de Mijaíl Bulgákov cuando este tipo de joyas de la literatura mundial son amadas universalmente por lectores de todos los continentes.Bulgákov, es dueño de una brillante dinámica literaria a la hora de narrar esta historia que en realidad se compone de un ensamble de tres, a saber, la visita del Diablo a la ciudad de Moscú, esa maravillosa historia de amor entre Margarita y el maestro y la novela que escribe el maestro sobre Poncio Pilatos, insertada dentro del libro y desperdigada en sendos capítulos.Ahora bien, en primer lugar debo decir que ha sido una genialidad por parte de Bulgákov petrechar una historia tan amena, disparatada e hilarante como la visita del Diablo a Moscú.
فيطلب الشيطان من المعلم بعد أن رأي بطل روايته وجهًا لوجه أن ينهي الرواية الآن.

The appearance of Marguerite Nikolaievna, the lover of the Master - 30 years, beautiful, smart, and married - without children - a very eminent specialist early in the second part of the story was very bewitching and for good reason, and thanks to Azazello his little box of ointment, she regains her youth and better is our beloved Witch, straddling a broom to fly in the air to our delight!
From the beginning, we see that the writer is not free: it must join the system and integrate a literary society for recognition.
There was something devilish and demonic in the time itself so the devil with his demons descended unto the capital city.First of all, the man described did not limp on any leg, and was neither short nor enormous, but simply tall.
Right eye black, left – for some reason – green.
In the grotesque Soviet times the tale becomes especially grotesque and fabulous… Follow me, reader!
The master was mistaken when with bitterness he told Ivanushka in the hospital, at that hour when the night was falling past midnight, that she had forgotten him.

This Russian novel was so wacky and schizophrenic that it gave me a headache.I had never heard of "The Master and Margarita" until a book club friend said it was one of her favorites.
She got way more out of this book than I did.Bulgakov worked on the novel for more than a decade, but in several different versions because at one point he even burned the manuscript.
(One of its most famous quotes is that "manuscripts don't burn.") While I know enough about Stalin's oppressive regime to appreciate the creative protest that Bulgakov was undertaking, I think I would rather read a biography about the author than to ever reread "Master and Margarita."
While other writers of this time period put pen to paper in the darkest of ways under Stalin's reign, Mikhail Bulgakov decides to write about among other things, talking cats, naked witches, Pontius Pilate, invisible body cream, trumpet playing gorillas and dancing polar bears!, the range of characters on offer are also nothing short of fantastically bonkers!, the sheer audacity to come up with the ideas for this novel has to be commended, and the fact of being written in secrecy obviously helped.
La farsa centrada en el diablo, Woland, y su comitiva, es una sátira grotesca y justiciera de la situación política e intelectual rusa, con un lenguaje y tono propio de un cuento infantil y de ritmo trepidante; el drama histórico de la muerte de Jesús, despojado de toda simbología cristiana y alejado del relato bíblico, que concentran uno de los leitmotiv del libro, la cobardía como el más grande de los defectos del hombre, narrado de una forma realista, con un estilo literario más cuidado, una gran atención por el detalle y de ritmo mucho más pausado; y, por último, el lirismo y la poesía de la bella historia de amor entre el maestro y Margarita que ejemplifican otros dos leitmotiv de la novela, la misericordia y la leyenda de Fausto.

Given that the Soviet Union in this era was promoting atheism, closing churches and persecuting religious folks, the main thesis seems to be summed up as follows: "Surely the devil is real, and if so, there must be a God." Like Dante, in his Divine Comedy, the author uses his work to settle old scores with critics and censors.
I wouldn't say that it's a book that I couldn't put down, but the plot moves and it kept my attention.
One thing that struck me is that Moscow was "behind-the-times" apparently, and much of the plot felt like it was set in the late 1800's.
