https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7091370-the-carrie-diaries
It has been years since I tried to read a translated version of Bushnell's Sex and the City, and I never got past the few first chapters because of the always horrible writing.
Maybe it was the translation, or maybe Bushnell developed her writing skills during the years, but there is no hint of the horrible in The Carrie Diaries.But, if you are like me and really enjoyed the show Sex and the City, it is very hard to see the familiar TV Carrie inside the written world, not even as a younger version of herself.
I actually never liked Candace Bushnell's books I've read - Sex and the City and Lipstick Jungle.
I guess my enjoyment of the TV show affected my judgment?This novel was a drivel and I couldn't get through more than 20 pages of it.
I don't think even the fans of the show will enjoy the novel because Carrie of The Carrie Diaries had nothing to do with neurotic, clueless in men, shoe-obsesses Carrie of the show.
Kudos to Bushnell for being smart enough to see that she, like everybody else, could cash in on exploiting the YA fiction boom.
If you are a SATC fan you will love this series!
I think this is what most people are looking for when they read the actual book called "Sex in the City" and they are disappointed when they don't get it.
This book just reads like an actual diary of a young Carrie Bradshaw, and of course since I love Carrie I love these books.
I feel like she's just so real and that's what had made me a huge SATC fan for so long.
I like this series, but I don't think I have ever finished a single one of her other books.
I liked that it transcended typical teenage / highschool stereotypes generally portrayed within books such as these and insisted upon the integrity and value of each person - it did not victimise or vilify one group or clique, but rather highlighted the hypocrisy and flaws of each.
Actually, that same concept was analysed and critiqued in The Carrie Diaries and for that I'm appreciative.The book had a unique voice and well-rounded host of characters which I felt really fleshed it out and made it more than just a contemporary high-school romance.
The kind of books that make you feel like you could go anywhere you want to – That anything really is possible.
The type of book that people recommend you don’t read in public unless you want people to see you start crying over the book.
(IF any of y’all feel like recommending a book to me, it would be fantastic!
Y’all know what to do.)This book?NEVER AGAIN.The characters – there was something I just didn’t like about them.The plot – Ughh… No Way. This book just reminded me about why high school is so horrible at times.The main character – Carrie was okay, I guess.
(Life's too short, right?) One of my biggest pleasures is reading teen and pre-teen literature.
So reading The Carrie Diaries was like combining the two in one ultimate dream!
There are a few oddly glaring inconsistencies between the book and the TV series, however.
In the series, she re-dates her high school boyfriend who she went to prom with...
she doesn't actually go to the prom in the book.
Don't read it expecting it to be a grown up novel!
You can probably already tell whether you'll like this or not: it's more or less what you're expecting.
SURPRISE: It was actually really good?Disclaimer: I haven’t seen an episode of Sex in the City.
I’ve seen the first movie but that’s pretty much it.
I’ve also seen the first few episodes from when they adapted this book into a show and barring a few things, this book is nothing like that.
While sometimes she drops the ball when she’s told she’s “not like other girls”, overall she’s fab.I pretty much hated Sebastian from the get go.
Sebastian wasn’t the only character I wanted to slap silly, especially towards the end.
(hide spoiler)]Overall, this book was a lot better than I expected.
Pur și simplu nu pot citi cartea asta!
Chiar am încercat de multe ori și am vrut să-mi placă, dar nu pot duce cartea asta până la capăt!
Stilul de scriere este plăcut, lejer, ușor de citit, însă povestea în sine este groaznic de fadă și plictisitoare, un mare clișeu american.
Nici protagonista nu face povestea mai acceptabilă, deoarece mă enervează și plictisește concomitent.
Cred că este prima carte chik-lit (nu că aș fi citit prea multe până acum) care nu mi-a plăcut.
Cum ar fi In Her Shoes mi-a plăcut foarte mult și mi-a făcut plăcere să o citesc vara trecută.
Before Carrie Bradshaw hit the big time in the City, she was a regular girl growing up in the suburbs of Connecticut.
How did she turn into one of the most-read social observers of our generation?Even though I'm a woman in her very late 20s I still enjoy YA books.
And I LOVE the show Sex and the City, I grew up watching that show with dreams of living in the city like them and being a fashionista.
So, I enjoyed learning how Carrie became the goddess she was in my eyes.
I recommend this series for any fans of the show.
I hated this book so much I destroyed it after reading.
In my opinion, I think this book is very recommendable to any girl in high school mainly because the things Carrie goes through are things that I’ve seen amongst my friends or people from the grades above and when reading the book, I could sometimes relate.
Also, it’s very amusing to read the issues she has between friends because that’s something almost everybody goes through.What I liked the most about the book is being able to completely get to know the protagonist, Carrie and imagine her in my mind.
Mind, I never got through the entirety of the original book, as the writing was pretty much sub-par and not as fun as the series, so I could be wrong.This Carrie Bradshaw has sisters (three, and one's a delinquent), a father (but no mother), and likes to cook (elaborate Julia Child meals, at that!) And (perhaps sadly), I can tell you where all of these things are refuted in the tv show.This isn't a BAD book by any means, but take out the last chapter, and/or change some names, and it could be any book about any girl in Connecticut in the 80s.
It's too slow and inwardly-focused for the Sweet Valley High crowd, and as a teen novel for adults (Secret History, Prep, etc.), it fails miserably, with the fact that there is almost no character development whatsoever being one of numerous flaws.
All of the characters are 2-dimensional, nearly interchangeable.
I kept comparing the Carrie in this book to the Carrie of the show (which I'm a big fan of), then having to remind myself that Bushnell has almost nothing to do w/ the tv series (which was "loosely" based on Bushnell's original SATC book), and that the Carrie in this book should be viewed as a stand-alone character.
Before long, Carrie and Sebastian are a couple - and the envy of the popular girls, who harass Carrie and make her life harder than it needs to be.Besides Carrie's hot-and-cold relationship with Sebastian, she also has to deal with a huge secret her best friend, Walt, is keeping, and a betrayal that threatens to ruin a lifelong friendship in an instant.Fans of Sex and the City will enjoy this novel, as it gives a lot of information on Carrie's family life and what inspired her to become a writer.
Ι am a major SATC fan and so it seemed natural for me to pick up this book.
What didn't feel so natural was reading it.
The Carrie Diaries is a sad attempt to keep the SATC era going and for Candace Bushnell to make a profit out of the YA hype.The story follows Carrie before she was a New York sociallite, when she still lived in the suburbs with her father and sister after her mother's death, and instead of Miranda, Sam and Charlotte hang out with a closet-gay, his cheating girlfriend and an asian nerd (really Bushnell?
First love, First betrayal, growing up, you want it all so bad but when it's all done kinda of want it to all disappear or you could!What irritates me as would every reader is the inconsistency between books and film; the teen Carrie is so much more independent, strong and carefree than that of the adult Carrie who lives, eats, sleeps breaths NY (which would make you think she is all independent...) but is constantly seeking out a man to help...
The book helped me relate more to teen Carrie growing from teen to adult; but made me watch the adult Carrie go through every drama, make out, girl chat and stiletto purchase all again - I do love it
Descrie bine viața de liceu, dar mă așteptam la altceva. Carrie de aici este bleagă, plângăcioasă și acceptă prea ușor multe mizerii, nu e o sursă de inspirație, așa cum mi-am imaginat-o. Drăguță lectură, dar nu prea. Ultimele pagini au fost savuroase.
Finally Candace Bushnell answers the questions that have plagued diehard Sex in the City fans ever since Carrie Bradshaw sipped her first pink cosmo: How did Carrie hit the big time as a newspaper columnist in New York City?
Fans in need of a Sex in the City fix will love seeing Carrie evolve from an awkward teen into a quick-witted, insightful writer.Although I was hoping Bushnell would give readers a taste of Carrie’s early beginnings with Miranda, Samantha and Charlotte, she does reveal the young fashonista’s road to New York City and serendipitous encounter with a certain PR bad girl.
This book takes place during the iconic 1980's, following Carrie as she tries to juggle her aspirations, dreams, and the social burdens that accompany high school.
This book doesn't skimp on the traditional adventures of high school.
It deals with the real issues of growing up, and getting hurt, and this book was so brilliant because how Carrie deals with all these problems, can be an inspiration to all struggling high schoolers.
She lets her emotions rule her and reacts in ways not unlike how girls do today, which makes this book relatable.
Carrie Bradshaw is one of my all-time favorite literary and television characters, fashion icons, and "every" woman.This novel is actually a prequel to "Sex and the City", and introduces us to Carrie as she begins her senior year of high school.
We see Carrie as she struggles to find her writing voice, gently experiments with fashion, and questions her own place in the small town where she has grown up.
Friends, dating, family drama, peer pressure, you name it - Carrie experiences it all (and with her usual candor, optimism, and sensitivity).
Esta lectura la tuve teniendo en cuenta la serie y peliculas de Sex and the City y la serie de The Carrie Diaries, y comparándolo con estos, no me gustó para nada el libro.
Los personajes son uno más irritante que el otro, incluyendo Carrie.
Esperaba ver un development en al menos uno de los personajes, pero ni siQUIERA ESO.Lo único que me gustó de todo el libro fue el gran final, ya que no me acordaba (o quizá no sabía?) que Samantha era la prima de Donna..
Heerlijk vermakelijk tussendoor boekje, zeker als SATC fan ♡
I read this book when I was way to young, so don't blame me when I say: THIS BOOK KILLED MY DREAMS! I was seriously depressed for awhile after I finished it.
Luin tämän ensimmäisenä kirjana sitten pääsykoekirjojen ja oli muuten hyvä aivot narikkaan kirja! Osa hahmoista jäi vähän etäisiksi, mielestäni edes carrieen ei syvennytty kovin paljon, mutta itseä se ei niin haitannut kun on katsonut kumpaakin sarjoista jonkin verran. Seuraavaksi sitten kesään sopivasta toinen osa eli Ensimmäinen kesä New Yorkissa :D
SO FUN! It totally held my attention and was a pretty quick read for me. I loved it.
This book was awful, and I want to beat the "not like other girls" trope into a quivering pulp.I really hated everything - everything - about this book other than George and the ending. Hence, two stars.
Mittelmäßige Story mit leichten, sehr kurzen Spannungsbögen. Eine typische Highschool-Geschichte, die mich leider nicht ganz packen konnte. War aber dennoch angenehm zu lesen und relativ kurzweilig.
I think it is really unhealthy for young girls to read about characters like these and since this book is targeted to the teen audience, it would probably have been wiser to have at least one sensible main character.
Although I must admit, the character of Roberta “The Mouse” was pretty reasonable but she was not around long enough.What I Liked:
Hopefully, this would be explored and written more about in the next book.The pace picked up around the 65% mark and I stayed up until the wee hours of the night to finish the story.
I'd probably pick up the next book in the series sometime in the future.
Candace Bushnell’s latest book, The Carrie Diaries, is aimed at the Young Adult market as a chance to “Meet Carrie before Sex and the City.” I love Sex and the City (the TV show) so I wanted to read this story, but I had to wonder – would this story for teens be as frank and explicit as the show?
This coming of age story chronicles Carrie’s senior year of high school.
The jealousy between girls – even best friends – was a sadder but realistic part of high school I also remembered well.This book is such an engaging and interesting read.
We watch her love of vintage clothes unfold as she searches through her mother’s things (her mother died recently after a long illness) and dons genuine go go boots from the 70′s for the first day of school.
“I figure the boots have had a much more interesting life than I have.”Watching Carrie develop into the character I know and love so well was a joy!
Unlike Bushnell’s more mature material, The Carrie Diaries are age appropriate and written for the teen audience.
And I don’t need to be rescued either.”Carrie finds her writing voice after a particularly humiliating encounter with the resident mean girl, Donna LaDonna.
