https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/365879.Huntingtower
This was not the mild goddess he had sought, but the awful harpy who battened on the souls of men.’ However, he faces down his doubts and fears, clinging steadfastly to the belief that there is a solution to most problems if one one applies a business mind to it (such as some sleight of hand involving a left luggage office) – and that there’s life in the old dog yet.There’s a lot of humour in the book, chiefly contributed by the exploits of the gang of Glasgow street urchins who come to the aid of Dickson and Heritage in their attempts to rescue the Princess.
Both the Russian Revolution and the Great War lurk in the close-background of Huntingtower, set in a Scotland of 1920 and published in 1922, but there's always a subdued jolliness and sense of well-being in Buchan's adventure novels that mitigates whatever menace he introduces.
His suspicions are aroused when he and the poet are hurried off the grounds, and they return to find that a beautiful Russian princess and her elderly female cousin are being held hostage inside.
"He is the petit bourgeois," says the Russian princess Saskia, admiringly, "the épicier, the class which the world ridicules.
One of the best books I've read this year.RTC.
This review will also encompass the entire Dickson McCunn series, "Huntingtower," "Castle Gay," and "The House of the Four Winds." We've only really begun to scratch the surface of Buchan's writings, but this hero, Dickson McCunn is the most unlikely and the most fun.
The subtitle to this book is "The astonishing adventure of a merchant, a poet and a captive princess." Dickson McCunn has spent his life as a respectable and successful Glasgow Grocer.
Mr McCunn almost wimps out when the going gets tough, but he doesn't, and it's so great.
While these two novels were fun stories, they really lacked Buchan's best storytelling style.
It's a strange little book.It was a clever, interesting story at first, but as the dialect got broader and broader I got fed up with it.
Surely we can get the idea of accented speech without making every word look like an Overdrive misprint.
"When I was a lassie they ca'ed it Dalquharter Hoose, and Huntingtower was the auld rickle o' stanes at the sea-end.
Naebody, since the young laird dee'd.
But the laird bode to waste his siller in stane and lime, and hadna' that much to leave to his bairns.
Great adventure stories with tons of period details (he seems to know every general, battle, and politician of the era).
I love the idea of these British dudes going off to some colonial frontier to "make their pile" then coming back to live the good life for a while, and eventually getting bored and heading off on some other adventure.Good stuff.
So far it's pretty cool.This story was a little less exciting than 39 Steps or Greenmantle, if only becuase it's about a retired grocer/gentleman who goes on a walking tour and is somehow mixed up in a Bolshevik kidnapping plot.
A rip-roaring adventure, marred by the ugliness of Buchan's anti-Semitism.
The damsel in distress was pursued by people who wanted to get the jewels with which she had been entrusted.
"But behind them were the Jews, and behind the Jews our unsleeping enemies." (page 120)What I find really chilling about this quite unnecessary reference to Jewish people being cast as part of an evil conspiracy, is that it was perfectly acceptable and unremarkable to have it appear in a book published in 1922.
John Buchan became Baron Tweedsmuir and was a Governor-General of Canada.
Brilliant. No "Clubland heroism" here...
I didn't think Buchan was capable of writing a bad book, but this comes pretty close: preposterous, vague backstory, and tediously overwrought intrigue suspense make for a boy's own adventure fit only for the dimmest of lads.
I first read this book many years ago after seeing a very good BBC production on TV.
I then read it a couple of years ago on my Sony E-Reader; which was brilliant because in the Oxford English Dictionary pre-installed on my e-reader, I found definitions for all but one of the archaic Scots words that Buchan uses (and he uses a lot).
With a fast-paced story like this it’s pleasant to have a printed book; where one doesn’t have to turn the pages as frequently as touch-screen swipe on the e-reader.
I've always enjoyed this story of the retired grocer who sets out on a walking holiday and finds himself allied with a cynical Modern poet and a gang of Glasgow street boys defending an exiled Russian princess from her enemies, but on my most recent revisiting of it, I found myself wondering whether Dickson might not have a small place in Bilbo's literary genes. Tolkien enjoyed Buchan, and the exultation of how middle-class British virtues underpin an enduring heroism, and the efforts of both Dickson McCunn and Bilbo Baggins to apply 'business sense' to their romantic heroism, is suggestive.
A very enjoyable short read packed full of adventure and altruistic actions. The protagonist (a retired grocer taking a holiday in the Highlands) battles with his conscience, going against all he has abided by his whole life, in the name of justice, romance and euphoria. Buchan finds warmth in the darkest corners of an often barren and harsh land, through loyalty, valour and a good cup of tea!
Better known for his drama, The Thirty Nine Steps and hero Richard Hannay, Buchan here introduces another hero, Dickson McCunn, who leads us through quite a thrilling adventure set near Carrick, Scotland...
John Buchan is a favourite author of mine, and I don't think I could ever be disappointed with his work.When I found out that Dickson McCunn was a man aged past his fifties, I wondered uneasily about how the romance would be worked in.
Here is material for romance." But Heritage was not the right type of person for a beautiful Russian princess, and I was in suspense until she blushingly spoke about a "friend".
As my father used to say, cripples have a right to be cankered.'"Dickson is the best kind of hero.
I look forward to reading the next two books in the Dickson McCunn trilogy.
I really loved this book.
It was first published in 1922, and it could be described as a really jolly adventure.
It's the story of a retired grocer, a poet, an old lady and a valiant band of street urchins, who rescue a Russian princess from the clutches of dastardly Russian villains.
The book made me smile, with people dashing about on pushbikes, and doing things like using a trunk of home made scones as a decoy for a batch of priceless jewels.
It is humorous and heartwarming, and the plot carries you along.So if you like an improbable adventure, a lot of humour and heavy nostalgia, then read this book.
This is classic early 20th century action and adventure, with some of the cultural flaws inherent to the time (off-hand antisemitism & misogyny, etc.) I was impressed by the cast of characters, though- headed by a middle-aged grocer who finds himself thrust into intrigue and danger, it includes a competent and self-aware princess, a gang of street kids who save the day more than once, and an old Scots granny who plays a key role in many of the heroics. It's old-fashioned and a bit quaint, but still a fun, G-rated, red-blooded adventure.
An old fashioned "Boy's Own" tale of derring do, with the Bolsheviks being the villains on this occasion, although the setting is not some exotic foreign clime and the hero is a retired middle class grocer, giving it a different angle to other adventures of its time. However, the real stars of the show are the Gorbals Diehards, characters that are heroic in the pages of this book but who would have ended up with ASBOs these days.
Definitely of its time: the upstanding British shopkeeper fighting the nasty Bolshies. Also a little hamstrung by a lot of "Scotch" dialogue that we Sassenachs stumble over (maybe that was the idea). That said, it's the kind of "Boys' Own" adventure that would have enthralled me when I was about 10.
WonderfulWhat a great storyteller, took me back to my school days when I first read the thirty nine steps, I was enthralled then by this great author and can't believe I've not read more by him.So glad I have been reintroduced bk kindle to him.
A Scottish adventure. This book has all what I expect from a Buchan story. True, the characters are a bit simplified, and as always the English are the best, but it is fun to read. Only the last part, at the end of the battle, it becomes a bit dull.
After a very slow start this was an exciting story. The only problem for me was that most of the dialogue was written in "Scottish" and half the time I didn't have a clue what was being said!
Very well-written story about a poet, a businessman, and six "Boy Scouts" who band together to save a Russian princess from a forced marriage with a Bolshevik officer.
I say! John Buchan. jolly good
How much he liked people of every class (not just the upper class) and perhaps most of all we see Buchan’s final concept of what a hero is – a normal man in an extraordinary situation).
Jaikie thought it was some kind of a draigon." {Love of the class system}"I have been back among fairy tales," she says.
But for ancient race he has respect in his bones, though it may happen that in public he denies it, and the laird has for him a secular association with good family......Saskia, looking into the heart of the peats, began the story of which we have already heard a version, but she told it differently, for she was telling it to one who more or less belonged to her own [upper class] world.
Suffers a bit from the lack of a sufficiently scary villain and the abuse of Scots gets sometimes tiresome but....Pure Buchan.
Buchan is pre-postmodern.
A dialogue like this one is simply unconceivable today (Dickson, the proud middle aged, middle class protagonist is adressing the Gorbal Die-Hards "underprivileged" children from the worst neighbourhood in Glasgow that have decided to create their own Boy Scout's troop:" None of you has ever had a proper chance or been right fed or educated or taken care of.
“We’ve just had a meetin’ and I’ve to report that ye’ve been unanimously eleckit Chief Die–Hard.
We’re a’ hopin’ ye’ll accept.” “I accept,” Dickson replies.
I absolutely love this delightful story about a retired Scottish grocer in the 1920's who goes on a walking tour, and becomes embroiled in the discovery of a kidnapped Russian princess.
A brave little band of street urchins, who have been sent to the country for "camp" (though it seems they are there entirely without adult supervision), have also become suspicious about the old mansion where sinister things appear to be happening.
Numerous ruffians and accomplices to the kidnapping keep entering the picture, and many "accidents," stakeouts, and knocking of heads happen along the way.
So I love the book for what it represents to me.
I also love it because it is about apparently unremarkable people embarking on great adventures.
Buchan lived an incredibly varied and accomplished life and the message of his book is that it's never too late to embark on an adventure and indeed, to be be changed by it.
In this, Buchan seems to make a profound point about the nature of heroism and how it is often those who apparently have the least who are willing to give the most for their friends.

Dickson McCunn “has had a humdrum life since the day when he first entered his uncle’s shop”, but now he has retired, and with his wife away, decides to take a holiday on foot.
I do like a hero who spends more time deciding what book to take than on all the rest of his packing.“He had never fished in his life, but “The Compleat Angler” seemed to fit his mood.
Decidedly it was the right scrip for his pilgrimage.”Leaving home, McCunn quickly falls into an adventure in a remote village with a Poet, a mysterious imprisoned maiden, evil men, and a band of rough and tumble boy scouts.
Noticed after reread number 4 (in the span of almost 60 years) that I had never reviewed this Buchan book.
The book tells of a beautiful White Russian princess trapped in a lonely stone house by international villains and rescued (sorry if that's a spoiler) by the combined efforts of a retired Scottish grocery merchant, a cynical lovelorn poet pining after his lost lady and a band of Glaswegian street arabs, Buchan's version of the Baker Street Irregulars.
The opening is vintage Buchan: a good-hearted soul is drawn by a chance meeting, against his prudent judgment, into a dangerous cause.
Really good fun for Buchaneers.
