https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33381433-we-are-never-meeting-in-real-life
Reading Samantha Irby’s We Are Never Meeting In Real Life cracked my heart all the way open.
The essays in this outstanding collection are full of her signature humor, wit, and charming self-deprecation but there is so much more to her writing.
For every laugh, there is a bittersweet moment that could make you cry.
From black women and mental health to the legacies created by poverty to dating while living in an all too human body, Irby lays bare the beautiful, uncompromising truths of her life.
We Are Never Meeting in Real Life is as close to perfect as an essay collection can get.
what will happen?i read this book because it was free, blurbed by jenny lawson, and it had a cat on the cover, thus combining three of my favorite things.i am not blog-savvy, so i’d never heard of the author before, but i needed a nonfiction title to read for this month, and i really really needed something funny, so this seemed to be the perfect choice, and finding another funny lady-writer for the future would just be icing on the cake.
she has certain writerly idiosyncrasies, like invoking imaginary people in the second person, “your aunt Karen,” “ your grandma’s favorite adhesive bandages,” “your recently retired fifth-grade teacher” that threw me for a loop at first, but i think the bigger problem is that our funny bones just don’t align.
I just love how self-effacing she is—that honesty is so endearing and makes me feel like I know her (yes, I KNOW we’re never meeting in real life).
I liked them all, but We Are Never Meeting in Real Life definitely wins second place, losing only to Hyperbole and a Half.Funny, it was the title that drew me in from the start.
I don’t like looking at mean or pissed off people either, so it’s not surprising I prefer to see chilled-out, cool cats.I love it that the author put that period at the end of her title: We Are Never Meeting in Real Life.
Wonderful, honest, hilarious, brilliant, raw, and did I mention hilarious?I am a big fan of memoirs, especially those written by women funnier than me, and this is one of the best I have read so far.
I adore the way Samantha Irby's language flows, with her perfectly placed expletives; there is just a poetry to it that I can't quite describe (the best kinds of voices are like that, I find).
Samantha Irby's writing worked best for me when her topics were deeply personal ones - such as her childhood but also her unsuccessful relationships.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Let’s just get things out of the way and address the pink elephant in the room. The title of this one alone almost gave me an out of body experience and most definitely had me saying . . . .  Then she added in a homeless-as-fuck looking kitten for the cover art as a bonus and I was sold.(Have no fear, Samantha Irby, I am far too lazy to actually leave the comfort of my couch in order to stalk you properly. It shall strictly be via the
All this is being disclosed to let you know I had never heard of Samanthy Irby before seeing this title so I can provide zero insight as to whether this is fresh material or simply “upcycled” content from Bitches Gotta Eat that has been repackaged with a mangy cat on the front.As soon as I saw this thing (somewhere at some time ‘cause y’all know my momma must have dropped me on my head a time or twelve since I cannot remember shit), I ran straight to NetGalley in order to get a copy.
A humorous and poignant collection of essays.Samantha Irby writes about events in her life from an honest and sharp angle.
You will be introduced to her "judgmental" cat, former bad dates, sex toys how-to, and her take on the absurd situations she's been in.I struggle to write a coherent, short book review so I appreciate the brilliant effort that takes to write an interesting, engaging, and raw collection of stories as the ones in this book.Overall, it was ok.
I am not a fan of non-fiction books but highly recommend this book to those who do enjoy it.PS: the bait was the cat on the cover!
I loved these essays.
They were reminiscent to me of a combination of Roxane Gay and Jenny Lawson, in their ability to confront tough issues and situations head-on (in this case - poverty, disability, weight, race, sex, among many other things) with a dark humor and open honesty that most of us can never dare get to.
I laughed out loud at several points and I felt furtive reading them on vacation with my very conservative mother in the same room, in the very best way.
Now I really want to check out Samantha Irby's blog, bitches gotta eat.Thanks to Goodreads for choosing me for this giveaway!
I have read so many books like this and yet I seem to keep picking them up and not being impressed.
The author shared random moments and stories from her life and she was funny enough to entertain me, but not good enough for me to recommend her book..."Sometimes you just have to laugh, even when life is a dumpster fire.
At least in MY reading of her book of collected essays, she came across less as self-deprecating and way more as an anxious, washed-up character stepped in bathos, who simply makes me relish my inconsequential, NORMAL life.
I'm not wondering what people think of me when I take a bathroom key, so apparently I'm more of a functional human being than she is?
I did laugh outright at her depiction of steaming diarrhea on the side of the road, hanging out from a college bro-dude's car -- and beyond that, I had to force myself to finish the book.
Vulnerable and real, this book made other people laugh but had me amused at best.
Like, I do not think I have ever given a "humor" book five stars.
Still, I appreciate what Samantha Irby does with We Are Never Meeting in Real Life: she uses her unique voice to talk about issues like fatphobia, mental health among black women, messy relationships, and more.
Overall, recommended to people who want a humorous read that may prioritize potential for laughs over depth of insight.Also, I did chuckle at the line when she asks her partner "has anyone in the patriarchy oppressed you lately?" before having sex with her.
By the time I got around to We Are Never Meeting in Real Life, I was pretty much resigned to thinking that these collections were never going to live up to their potential and I should just stop trying.
The clouds parted and a ray of sunshine, in the form of Samantha Irby's funny and note-perfect writing, blazed down on me.I definitely spent some time trying to figure out why this collection worked better for me than so many others, and I came up with two reasons.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestIt is a truth universally acknowledged that a cat lady in want of cat pictures is going to buy your goddamn book if you slap a cat on it. Also, Yaa Gyasi's HOMEGOING was kicking my butt all over the place emotionally (yes, butts can be emotional, thanks), so I decided that my ARC of WE ARE NEVER MEETING IN REAL LIFE would be just the thing to revitalize my drained repository of feels.I WAS WRONG.Don't get me wrong. WE ARE NEVER MEETING IN R
Also, Yaa Gyasi's HOMEGOING was kicking my butt all over the place emotionally (yes, butts can be emotional, thanks), so I decided that my ARC of WE ARE NEVER MEETING IN REAL LIFE would be just the thing to revitalize my drained repository of feels.I WAS WRONG.Don't get me wrong.
WE ARE NEVER MEETING IN REAL LIFE is funny.
And I get how this could be the perfect literary diversion, but it reads like the Platonic ideal of a hilarious blogger who writes a book.
Each chapter is like a long form blogpost, perfect in it’s ability to invoke a wry chuckle, reading it over your morning coffee while avoiding work in the early hours of the day.
And just as quickly it’s gone, the browser tab shut down as you return your focus to the work you’re supposed to be doing.
The book feels like a collection of these posts and are just as forgettable.
After reading this, I would very much like to meet Ms. Irby in real life.
Weight, race, sexual orientation, class, part of the country...all come under her gaze, and she catches us out.--------I just want to register the notion that Irby has my permission to actually relax a little, not fake-relax as in writing jokes.
She doesn't have to be 'on' all the time, though it looks from these popular books that she feels an obligation to keep it up nonstop.
Like Zadie Smith says in her book of essays, Feel Free: Essays, there was a moment in the history of American literature when the work of Philip Roth and Saul Bellow were so spectacular and spoke to so many of us that Great Jewish-American Writer was turned into Great American Writer.
There are days where I would rather pick up a book like Irby’s or Lawson’s and bunker down all day, rather than a fictional novel where I can get lost in a different world.I just did not connect with the author AT ALL.
I found the author to be quite judgmental and I feel like she would look down on me because I vote, love animals, am not lazy, etc.
Samantha Irby is just a very different person from who I am and I feel that the reason I could not enjoy her book was that we would never get along in real life.I think my main issue with the book is the crass and harsh essays that come out of it.
..my first call would most certainly not be to a dude who says LIE-BARRY and is afraid to try artichokes.Does Samantha Irby understand that she is a goddess? Does she know that she may be the funniest person to bless this goddamned earth? Her life seems to be a series of crazy situations that - yes she may have gotten herself into - but doesn't know exactly how. I love love love this book and I want to pay Sam to be my friend. Which seems like something she would be into. ;)
I smiled and chuckled my way through this collection of essays.
I love humorous essays, but this is the first time I’ve read a collection by a black author.
We’re both from the north shore suburbs of Chicago, I’ve also battled the depression she describes, and while my health issues are different than hers, I understand.Parts of this collection are very funny; others poignant and sad.
There are so many lines I’d like to quote but can’t because I’m reading an ARC (advance reader copy) uncorrected proof.
Thanks to NetGalley for the opportunity to review this book.
For more of my reviews, please visit: http://theresaalan.net/blog
3.75⭐I really enjoyed some of the stories. Some made me laugh out loud and wish she was my best friend. But other stories were, well, just her real life. Which believe me some peoples life is crazy and dramatic all the time but i found some stories to be unnecessary or a bit too long. Otherwise it is a highly entertaining novel.
3.75⭐️I really enjoyed some of the stories. Some made me laugh out loud and wish she was my best friend. But other stories were, well, just her real life. Which believe me some peoples life is crazy and dramatic all the time but i found some stories to be unnecessary or a bit too long. Otherwise it is a highly entertaining novel.

I *love* Samantha Irby, like seriously love her.
Actually as much as I loved Meaty, I think this one is even better.
It's just as personal, funny, and poignant, but it's almost like Meaty on steroids.
I laughed out loud several times, which is not something I typically do when I read something funny.
I love Curbside Splendor, the small press that published Meaty, but I'm thrilled that this book is published by a major publisher because I want Irby to have a larger audience.
I really hope this forthcoming essay collection has the success Irby deserves because it's such a truly great read.
Samantha Irby is so insanely funny. Her voice is so real and so comfortable and lovely to have in your head.
It isn't because I don't like this style of humor, or "get" her type of humor, because I do, but there is a finesse to it and many of these essays don't have it.I was led to believe this was a body positive book, but making larger than average size women seem gross, lazy, and depicting them as unhealthy eaters is not going to do this.
She doesn't shave her pits because she doesn't want to, but you are unreasonable if you won't date her because if it.
Actually, she makes it sound like you are an as$#ole if you won't accept her hairy armpits.
3.5 rounded downI'll be honest, I was mostly attracted by the adorable kitten on the cover. That and I've been in the mood for memoirs/essay collections recently. I'd never heard of Samantha Irby before, but found a lot of these essays incredibly relatable and funny, although I did find that this petered out a bit towards the end, and I didn't like the last handful of essays as much as the others.
Thanks to Netgalley and the publisher for the chance to read this book. It made me laugh and cry and I might have ignored my kid so I could finish reading it. Ten stars.
Irby's chapter endings are an excellent study in dropping the mic.
I suggest Samantha Irby for fans of Lindy West, Luvvie Ayaji, Roxane Gay, and those who like their humor a little more real and less mannered than, say, the typical NPR or New Yorker fare. These essays are so funny and sometimes gross. They also provided me with validation I didn't know I needed for working the same job for a long, long time, and also for never wanting people to come over to my house.
TMI and bitter - which coming from me, is saying a lot. There are a few laughs but otherwise I am glad that we are never meeting in real life.
Love love love! This book was amazing. She is honest and self deprecating. It is genuine and laugh out loud funny. She also talks about her hardships and her sick mother(that part was very hard for me). I already recommended this to my friends multiple times in the two days it took me to listen to it. I want to meet her and hang out with her. The audiobook read by the author is fantastic. Seriously if you haven’t already, check it out!
This being my first experience with the comedian and "bitches gotta eat" blogger, it took me a bit to catch on to her serio-comic style.
But then it was smooth sailing and easy reading, going from laughs to amusement at her storytelling style.
It's a mix of painfully honest family stories that all seem to end abruptly because first her dad died, then not long afterward her mom died as well.
In better circumstances certainly, because then her dad couldn't drink her check away.
