https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227053.Religion_and_the_Rise_of_Capitalism
(Also, I came to realize for sure that the "selfishness is good" school is not, historically, a natural ally of the kind of conservatism I believe in; rather, it's a natural enemy.) And finally, though Tawney's analysis basically covers only the early modern era, it gave me an interpretive key to understand the desire of the wealthy capitalist class to free itself from moral and religious restraint as a broad, ongoing process that continues to shape Western intellectual and economic history --a process that explains the whole elevation of first Hume and then Darwin to thrones of unquestioned authority in Establishment thought, that explains the horrors of slavery and the Industrial Revolution, that explains today's twisted "globalism", and much else.
It is a difficult read because the sentences are long and typical of 19/20th century writing. For that reason, it took me months to finish this book. This book will inform you how Christianity after The Reformation influenced the economic development in Europe. The changing religious thoughts at that time had of course changed the way average people and nobility think about properties and the state. A must read for fans of historical socio-economic thoughts.
That said, his (non-Marxist) socialism doesn't seem to get much in the way of his historical work here.The statement about how Aquinas espoused the labor theory of value and "The last of the Schoolmen was Karl Marx" was a bit much, but this is not really a book about economic theory so perhaps we can forgive the author that little faux pas.Tawney's criticism of Luther, Calvinism and Puritanism is really powerful.
The book really is electrifying in some parts.)It'll be interesting to return to some of these historical subjects (enclosure, for example) and look back on what Tawney says in the light of whatever more detailed reading I end up doing.
The business of God ... is business28 December 2012 It is interesting to chart the rise of the modern state, which in a way began back in the Renaissance and the period in European history known as the Babylonian Captivity (when the Papacy was moved from Rome to Avignion) to the modern day, and to see how all of the events are interconnected with each other. This book, though, probably should have the title of Protestantism and the rise of Capitalism, namely because it was through the Protestant
is business28 December 2012	It is interesting to chart the rise of the modern state, which in a way began back in the Renaissance and the period in European history known as the Babylonian Captivity (when the Papacy was moved from Rome to Avignion) to the modern day, and to see how all of the events are interconnected with each other.
However, I would not say that Capitalism is itself Christian, and in a way it is moving from the days where people were forced to change or die back to a feudal system when governments are sidelined and corporations are taking the role of the new lords.
During the first war he served in the Royal Army as a sergeant, having turned down a commission because of his political beliefs.In studying Christian religion, he found a fissure developing between traditional Christian teachings and the pursuit of material goods, and this comment reflects that view: "A society which reverences the attainment of riches as the supreme felicity will naturally be disposed to regard the poor as damned in the next world, if only to justify itself for making their life a hell in this." This echoes Max Weber.Weber (1864-1820) also had interest in the connection between Capitalism and religion.
Been years since I read it. But I love this book. The writing is really fun. We've removed all aspects of poetry from modern writing about history. Tawney doesn't feel those shackles and goes with the words.Accuracy is not entirely there. But he clearly gets across one concept of the odd ways that puritanism and capitalism were bound together in their early development and how each affected the other.Regardless, I highly recommend it.
Nevertheless there was also, at the core of Church ideas, something admirable: ‘… its insistence that society is a spiritual organism, not an economic machine, and that economic activity, which is one subordinate element within a vast and complex unity, requires to be controlled and repressed by reference to the moral ends for which it supplies the material means’.‘Religion and the Rise of Capitalism’ is a classic study that probably suffers from being so influential that its arguments have been largely accepted since its publication in 1926.
There is a genuine strangeness about a time described by Tawney in which economic activity was not the principle activity of life itself.
As I dip into early modernism, these sort of sweeping analyses that work in a great deal of history are just the kind of slog I need. Part economic history and analysis social psychology, Tawney certainly implicates Puritan secularization of politics and economics and valorization of economic individualism in the rise of capitalism. It's not the sole factor: he notes that crucial banking systems were developed in Catholic countries, technologies of navigation allowed for increased supply of $ &a
As I dip into early modernism, these sort of sweeping analyses that work in a great deal of history are just the kind of slog I need.
Part economic history and analysis social psychology, Tawney certainly implicates Puritan secularization of politics and economics and valorization of economic individualism in the rise of capitalism.
Useful also in contrasting Medieval systems of mutual obligation versus early modern forms of individualism and what this means in regard to who is responsible to the poor and in what ways.
Kinda like the political theology thing.
this is a very very very good book. covers much the same ground as weber's the protestant ethic. but the rise of cap. is more interested to show how capitalism/protestantism arose in sharp contrast to medieval ethics/economics. lots of cool references. goes way beyond like john locke & st. augstine.
A classic if now perhaps dated evaluation of man's economic drives. it was and still an influential explanation of motivation for the accumulation of wealth and the wish for prosperity; although nowadays simple naked greed seems more convincing with no veneer of any philosophy or religion to justify what drives the already unbelievably wealthy to steal more.
While I cannot find anything particularly wrong with the author's arguments and do not imply that I am an expert or have any great knowledge of what he talked about I did find his writing very opaque and his sentences and paragraphs poorly formed for understanding.
I've read a great many books from this era of the 1920's and before so I can't blame it on the style of the time.
When you have to read and reread something to get any understanding out of it something is wrong with the writing.
A must-read for anyone interested in the development of capitalism, specifically, how it was that avarice and material interests came to prominence in certain denominations of Protestant Christianity, ideals which the medieval Church regarded as sinful.
Fantastic overview starting in the Middle Ages. And so interesting to see how the Puritan movement has left its mark on the U.S. Well, not like it ever left...
Though this book is written in an very outdated style.
It is the only explanation I have every read or heard of that explain the transformation of the western thought from the medieval period of social obligations to the present economic self responsibility.
How English Calvinism laid the frame work for capitalism with the emphasis on individual character and self responsibility.
These changes in religious thought laid the frame work our acceptance of self responsibility, economic expediency and economic gain as the measure of value in our society.
It is such a shame that this book was written before post modernism and managerialism.
My old-guys-burnt-out-lefty book club read this one.
As usual, being behind, I didn't read it until after we had discussed it.
Not an easy read as it has those 19th century English long sentences, many quotes in Latin sprinkled here and there.
That said, this is, in my view, a great book, a genuine `classic' in its field.
The interaction between religion and politics - a timely contemporary subject in another context - is usually complex, but important to understand.
Definitely on the academic side - more so than Popular Delusions - lots of references to and citations of other literature on the subject. A lot of it covers the question, "How did the Catholic Church get so wealthy?" Covers Western Europe mostly ... a significant amount of the book deals with how the Catholic Church (and protestant sects once they're established) deal with the issue of interest ... is it usury and a sin against God or is it okay? Another issue is pricing of goods with the aim of profit.
There were parts of heavy slogging onwards, but as always with Tawney patience and effort finds a reward. Very beautiful in its thinking and sentiments, but I'm also an avowed fan of the author and medieval views on usury, so take it as you will.
Very heavy going. An important book but not, as I discovered, a holiday read.
Well written despite being incredibly detailed. A first rate book that anyone could enjoy and learn a great deal from.
KOBOBOOKS
Important stuff - bought it as it was on a school reading list many years ago and glad I finally got round to reading it
Fascinating take on the religious control of the economy as it moved from feudalism to Renaissance financial theory, and then into a free market.
