https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33926.The_Girls_Guide_to_Hunting_and_Fishing
The New Yorker  actually compares it to Bridget Jones, because, you know, all books written by women with a female protagonist in her 20s are the same.
If a guy had written this book, he'd be called the next Salinger.
If an older woman had written this book her name would be Abigail Thomas and it would be a memoir titled  Safekeeping .
Good serious.The only reason I'm not giving it 5 stars is because of the bizarre placement of the story titled "The Best Possible Light." I got all excited to jump into the future with future-Jane.
This book sucked some major balls.
Perhaps she gets lumped into that fluffy genre because of her age and her contemporaries are cranking out pop fiction instead of literary fiction.Her characters proceed with humor, but it is not cheeky or plucky.
If her characters were brought to life on tv, it would be a drama, not a comedy.
Like my favorite short story collection of all time, The Nick Adams Stories, the protagonist, Jane Rosenal observes the world as a teenager through her early adulthood."I saw my life in scale: it was just my life.
I saw myself the way I'd seen the cleaning woman in the building across the street.
0 stars. if i wanted to spend hours hearing another female continually question her own abilities and judge herself mediocre, I could just hang out with myself.Found in Last Word trash. A good placeAlso someone edited in an extra, unrelated chapter
Based on the title, I thought that this novel would have some feminist themes, encouraging women to do things that normally men do, but instead this was a book about a series of romantic affairs, none of which were particularly engaging, memorable or unique.
After realizing that the book was about relationships, at a minimum, I had hoped Ms. Bank would shed some new light on the woman's struggle to find a male partner in modern America...Instead, I found her writing to be caddy and her plot to be shallow and somewhat reflective of a soap-opera.
The first chapter was enticing, but afterwards I found the protagonist's decisions and reflections to be vexingly childish.
Now in all fairness, I read it between Jen Lancaster books so....but really, it had a bleak, Russian winter feel to it.
Jane's relationship with Archie, the alcoholic older man, was just so sad that I wanted to beat her for even entertaining the notion of such a self-indulgent ass in her life.
Based on the title, I thought the book would have as least some notion of a feminist "I am woman, hear me roar" theme to it but no.
Ok... I read this book a while ago. I saw it on our bookshelf and realized I had completely forgotten what it was about. I decided to re-read it... and guess what? I cannot remember what it is about. I don't think I can go for a third time. I have to say that the cover and title seduced me. Apparently, the story didn't.
This book drove me crazy. So many of my friends loved it and insisted I read it. I hated it. I thought I was missing something, so I read it again. Still hated it. Ugh.
Sometimes I read books such as this in an effort to find feminine mystique.Ths book is about a woman and the men she dates.
This book makes me wonder if the reason some women take so long in the bathroom is because they are so lost in the search for their own identity that they can't find their way out of the bathroom stall.The high point of this book is that it reminded me of one of my best childhood friends.
It’s time to lube up and face the fact that I might just be becoming one of those women that I want to kick in the shins with my doc martens and spit and spew snarky, inappropriate, gen x’er, manifesto-esque, Jenny Holzer Truisms back at their vapid expressions.
They made me think back to college when I was reading Lust and Self-Help: Stories and wanting so much to emulate these amazing writers.
It’s overly dramatic and it brings the story right to me.
The thing that makes me wonder if I’ll ever grow up and see that all of this as just fiction and that the more I want to believe the more that I will be let down.
I love when her brother asks if she read the Norwegian philosophy book he gave her, and she says, “I spent about a month reading it one afternoon.” I love all the little details in her stories because she doesn’t beat you over the head with them.
It's all about characters we don’t give a full shit about, so I skipped it and will pretend it doesn’t exist.
“The Worst Thing a Suburban Girl Could Imagine” is about her dad dying of cancer, so I skipped that too because Christ.
There’s too much death and cancer in this book.
I'll fustigate a structurally fantastic novel because its central theme is presented in an unbearably banal mode: The Girls' Guide embraces a worthy theme but devolves into national geographic narrative, rendering the text completely (in my opinion) degrading. The easy to follow jumps in time are clever and enthralling. However, if you want to address the dilemmas of modern, urban single women astutely, don't end the text with "We are just two mayflies mating on a summer night." Seriously. Don't.
As a single, independent woman living in the big city, I can relate with Jane's journey to find out who she is and what she wants her life to be.
Sure there are stories about dating, but the men are used more to illustrate Jane discovering who she is and what she expects from people in her life.
The book tells her to put her true self aside and put on an act of “hard to get” so that men can enjoy the chase.
Women have so many rules that are supposed to follow or else a man will never want them.
And do men really think that they don’t want that?
This is one of those books that you fall in love with immediately.
From sentence one to the very last, it's a book that sticks with you.It's made up of short stories, snapshots of main character's life.
Even though the stories were quick I felt like I got this wonderful portrait of the character Jane.
Jane is truly all of us, every woman.
The book is written so smartly, nothing is dumbed down for the readers, nor is it pretentious.
The characters are three dimensional, flawed but lovely as well.
I might read more "chick lit" if chick lit was written this well!
I remember this book was out around the time that Bridget Jones' Diary was out and they were comparing the two as "great novels for single females".
While Bridget Jones did the trick, this book did not satisfy me what-so-ever.
The only chapter I liked in the book was ironically the last one that actually dealt with "the girls guide to hunting and fishing".
It could be that I really expected something fabulous with this book, but honestly I didn't like it and I wouldn't want to recommend it to my friends.
There are plenty of other great novels out there!
I would just like to clarify that this book is not chick lit.
(I suppose you could call them chapters, but I think of it more like Amy Bloom's short stories than a traditional novel.)Yes: so far, so chick lit.
I did laugh out loud a few times like the book cover informed me I would, but it's a wicked laugh, a laugh born of uncomfortable and awkward situations that you can recognise yourself and those you love in, rather like watching an episode of The Office.If you enjoyed Amy Bloom or Simona Vinci, or indeedMargaret Atwood or Tove Jansson, give this a go.
A dear friend said it was good and I should read it; I asked whether it was just about romantic relationships, as the blurb suggested it was, and would thus not be to my taste.
[EDITED TO ADD: My dear friend has since admitted that she lent me the book because she didn't want it!
A book-based betrayal.]‘The Girl’s Guide to Hunting and Fishing’ is written well enough, but everything about it wholly alienated me.
I didn’t care about Jane’s love life, or that of any of the characters, because it was all just so clichéd and predictable.
This is a series of short stories about Jane.
(Well one story is about her neighbors.) We first meet her at 14 during summer vacation when her older brother brings home a girl for the weekend.
Jane is witty and at times a bit dark.
My favorite story is when she meets a man at a friends wedding.
She then reading one of those self help books on how to catch a man.
The internal dialog she has with the authors of this self help book as she negotates this new relationship made me laugh and shake my head at the same time.
Every chapter of this book was different, both in writing style and quality. The weird chapter in the middle with a different perspective was not necessary, and the last chapter was just plain stupid. Some of the other chapters had me feeling things though, so all in all this book could have been great after some more editing.Oh and the title is misleading and very forced in its meaning.
I found this somewhat disappointing. Not that it was a bad book - but it really meandered and it wasn't as enthralling as I had hoped. It had moments but over all not what I thought I was getting into.
Ugh. In the annals of great Chick Lit (Bridget Jones' Diary, Sex and the City, et al.) this book wouldn't even be a footnote. Sporadic, pathetic, and droll- steer clear fellow readers! The only reason I gave it two stars is that the main character references some good literature- although she fails to emulate the strong female ideals she professes to enjoy. Bleh.
And it is - it's her coming of age story, from the time she was 14 (my favorite part of the book), up until probably her 30's.
But then, just kind of randomly, there are two sections that aren't told by her and aren't about her.
One is told by her neighbor, which is the closest it comes to being about her, and the other is just some random short story kind of a thing about I don't know who.
Plus much of the book was just kind of a bummer.
Loved the name of the book.
Loved Jane at 14.
The book teaches you nothing except that love is sometimes difficult (no brainstorm there).
None of the men up and leave her.
Her problem is that she's not choosing her men wisely.
Actually, her men reflect her own ambivilance about her life goals.
The solution doesn't lie in better relationship games but in figuring out what she really wants in life.
I will give her credit for writing a very quick read but an only mildly entertaining read.
The writing style is light with some snappy one-liners.
The one highlight in the book is her relationship with her father.
All I know is that it was a struggle for me to finish this.Overall, this read more like a collection of short stories than a novel, no real surprise since the publication info page indicates that many chapters previously appeared singly in various publications.
All the stories were supposedly about the same main character but a couple of them just didn't seem to fit, there was no real connection to events in the other stories and the main character acted different enough to seem like a new person.
It was just another book about a whiny female who can't get her life together and all the relationships (romantic or otherwise) that she screws up or actually manages to get right.
"After a while, though, it occurs to you that even a perfect understanding of failed love is the booby prize."
I could not get through this book! I hated the main character!
This book was interconnected stories based on Jane's life dealing with love from when she is a younger girl to when she is in her later years. It had bits of humor which I enjoyed, but overall I just thought it would not stay with me in the long run.
Many of her turns of phrase are equally vivid, and I grinned a lot at some of her bons mots.The title, The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing, refers to the final story, in which Jane reads one of those dreadful How to Catch Your Man books and, through following its advice, manages almost to scupper what we sense is going to be her last and permanent romance.It would be easy enough to dismiss this book as just a light read, and certainly it's very fluent and entertaining; but I found it more rewarding than many a book I've read.
Good stuff!Just what I needed to pass the silent moments swaddled in covers attempting to get over whatever bug seems to have broken through my vitamin C barrier and given me some type of cold or flu.
It's good stuff.
I'd never come across Melissa Bank but I'm glad I have and will read another book by her.
I give it 3 1/2 stars because it was surprising good reading and I really liked it.
It wasn't a life changer but most definitely a life saver while I'm stuck in bed.
I recommend to anyone who likes chick lit.
And those who just would like a really good quick read.
I don't know that I've ever before read the last sentence of a book, closed it, and said out loud: "Terrible.
That was terrible.
Terrible, terrible, terrible."There are some nice phrases in this book, but otherwise, the chapters are so disconnected that it reads more like a collection of disparate essays than a novel.
If the aim was a fresh angle on plot/character/whatever, it did not work for me.
The only essay that made much sense, and which revealed the meaning of the title, is the last one.
--a book-length manuscript.
