https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6050298-dreamfever
Whatever the hell he wants to call me.Gawd, if you thought Barrons was naughtee with double e's in the other books, I'm here to tell you that he is naughteeeeeee with infinite e's in this one!!
Sorry, I know I keep throwing Battlestar Galactica references in her but I only because I love these books so much!
Epic like Battlestar.Oh by the way, Barrons, who's your favorite little rascal?Is it................
And that better not be permanent or I will hate KMM forever!I'm not happy about the ending but I'm happy about the book, and the series, and generally about my love for Barrons!Well, back to my happy dance.
Rich in language (though I wish she'd ease up on two words: demarcation and irrevocably (I wish OTHER authors would stop abusing the latter as well but that's a story for another day)).
The book is fast paced, action packed and full of the kind of rich, original and immersive story each of the previous books have enjoyed.I thoroughly recommend this series.
This book has the worst case of cliff-hanger fever I've ever seen!
KMM, the last book better wrap up nice and neat or I am seriously going to lose my cool.
Maybe in the moment of being born and the moment of dying, we're nearer to pure. Maybe it's the only time we're ever still enough to feel that there's something bigger than us; something that defeats entropy; that has always been and will always be. A thing that cant be flipped. Call it what you will. I only know it's divine.  "Divine" sums up my opinion of this series pretty well. Every installment only gets more fascinating, more convoluted, more addicting. I have no idea how I managed to wai
Maybe in the moment of being born and the moment of dying, we're nearer to pure.
Maybe it's the only time we're ever still enough to feel that there's something bigger than us; something that defeats entropy; that has always been and will always be.
A thing that cant be flipped.
I only know it's divine.
"Divine" sums up my opinion of this series pretty well.
Every installment only gets more fascinating, more convoluted, more addicting.
I have no idea how I managed to wait several months for the release of book 5 the first time I read the series.As for the cliffhanger -
Who ends books like this?
Pri-ya Mac and her "relationship" with Barrons totally depressed me, because I love the two together and simply hated to see them finally get together in such a messed-up way.
My other complaints are in tune with those of other readers: - Give me some answers finally!
I've read 4 books out of 5 and I still have more questions than answers.
How can they all be answered in the last book?
And the cliffhangers!In spite of my complaints, I still enjoyed the book immensely and dying to finally have all my questions answered.
4.5 starsWOW, great start to this one.BARRONSMACI always wanted to own a bookshop when I was younger. I was raised on books, no ipods, mac books, ipads, PCs, kindles for lil’ ol’ me. It was Enid Blyton all the way.Doubt if many bookstores like this even exist anymore, the chains have taken over, the Chapters, the Waterstones, the Easons, the Barnes and Nobles. “Our sex is fierce. We will both be bruised. "I want it to always be like this," I tell him. "Try holding onto that thought." "I do not n
4.5 starsWOW, great start to this one.BARRONSMACI always wanted to own a bookshop when I was younger.
"I want it to always be like this," I tell him.
His laughter is as dark and cold as the place of which I dream, "One day you will wonder if it's possible to hate me more.”
Yes, I was feeling sorry for myself.
I felt kinda sorry for the monster who had protected her...Where in God’s name was she?ANYONE coming to the rescue, anytime soon?The first part of the book was great, it kind of waned a bit in the middle before we got to an explosive ending…Off to start …
Or maybe drifting off to sleep to the soothing sound of a solo violin, only to be blasted awake by the some angry riffs of Japanese hair metal that for some fucking reason I idiotically decided I want included in my "sleepytime" playlist a few days back.I didn't know that I could be so rudely jolted out of a reverie while reading a book until I read the opening chapters of Dreamfever.
One of the rare moments in which I actually agreed with Dani is her observation of how completely fucking useless Barrons had been in protecting Mac.
Confirmado! A la Moning le gusta hacernos sufrir.... Y de qué manera! La conde'a... jaja
We see her fight her way back from the oblivion that is Priya with the aid of a man she never thought she could trust.
In the early books Mac devoted massive amounts of time to painting her nails, matching accessories to rainbow colored outfits and spewing sunshine and flowers from her mouth.
Now she chooses to wear uninterrupted black leather because it’s easy to sponge someone else’s death off the material and blood stains don’t show on it.
Rely on nothing but myself.” “I would never count on him again but I would use him if I could.”This book is non-stop from the opening to the gut-wrenching cliffhanger it ends with.
First reread with my girl Tanya, January 2015.Think you'll be getting another review out of me after this reread? Think again. I don't have time for this.  A dead beast awaits .********Original review: November 2014Out of control buddy read with my MacHalo girls starting November, 24 2014.Up until a few weeks ago, my life had been pretty much gif-less. I've always been one for words, not for silly images. I'm no longer 15 for God's sake! Well, that's what I was telling myself anyway. Then our in
First reread with my girl Tanya, January 2015.Think you'll be getting another review out of me after this reread?
.********Original review: November 2014Out of control buddy read with my MacHalo girls starting November, 24 2014.Up until a few weeks ago, my life had been pretty much gif-less.
My name is Sarah and I'm a Fever Freak.This will not be a very informative review.
Too much pink, too much silliness, too irritating, not enough badass.
Life will never be the same.Fact #3: JZBBecause, you know, JZB.Fact #4: V'LaneNo more bra on bra off games?
Here it is in full, but be warned, it is spoilery unless you've read all of Dreamfever:Deleted Scene/DREAMFEVER “You’re not the only fucking one that got branded!” Barrons slammed his fist into the wall behind my head.
And for the first time since the morning he’d gotten up and walked out, leaving me painfully, horrifically aware of both who I was and where I was—in Jericho Barron’s lust-drenched bed on the verge of begging him not to leave me while in full possession of my senses--I could see that it hadn’t left him nearly as untouched as I’d thought.
It is something I have encountered in one too many books lately.That's what really bothered me in Dreamfever.I absolutely love the Fever series and had grown extremely fond of Mac and her gradual coming of age,of strenghts.A painful,humiliating incident takes that slow and realistic development and turns into a full 180-degree turn.It's cliched.It's redundant.I am not okay with sexual abuse in books, but that is a personal preference and I don't consider it a minus of the novel.
I get where he's coming from,but that is no excuse.I used to love these books, I really did,and perhaps that's why this installment disappointed me so much.
[4.5 Stars]OMG THAT ENDING THOUGH
Couldn’t stop turning the pages…and my love for Mac & Barron kept growing as I continued spending time in their world.Mac’s journey is going through some dark moments but she’s stronger than she was before..and it is this inner strength of hers that she is able to survive being turned Pri-ya (sex slave) by the Unseelie Princes.
They are growing closer to each other and to finding the darn book of evil!!!!!!!!!!The human world is quickly being overtaken by the dark Fae….and Mac, as she comes out of her addiction, discovers more of her powers and is prepared, even more so now, that no one and nothing will step on her quest to attain her quest.There are still so many questions left at the end of this book…..Who and what is Barron’s?
ARE YOU KIDDING ME RIGHT NOW?!This book was fantastic. The beginning had me like...Then, there was a lot of this...And, I'm left with this holy-crap-on-a-cracker kind of ending?! Once again, I'm so glad I have the next book in this series ready to go. I am stunned. And, because I refuse... REFUSE to accept that ending...I'm off to read the next book in this series pronto.
Other thoughts:(view spoiler)[My favorite part was when her monster (Barrons, I presume) kept urinating in a circle around her. Awesome. (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
*5 Fecking Stars* After the way the last book ended I had to go immediately into this one and let me tell you…it was intense, action packed and oh so sexy. Mac has been turned Pri-ya after the brutal ending of the last book. There is only one who can save her and bring her back and oh friends he sure does! ” “Our sex is fierce. We will both be bruised. "I want it to always be like this," I tell him. "Try holding onto that thought." "I do not need to try. I will never feel differently." Embarrass
*5 Fecking Stars* After the way the last book ended I had to go immediately into this one and let me tell you…it was intense, action packed and oh so sexy.
Mac has been turned Pri-ya after the brutal ending of the last book.
Embarrassment, duty and unanswered questions has Mac still doubting her allies once the spell is broken and she’s all about kicking ass and saving the world.
New world.
New me.
Have no fear friends Barrons and the sexy fae prince can't stay away from her.Mac may know all the players now in this game but their actions and plays are completely unpredictable.
Here's the schedule (sorry, I can't keep to a schedule with this series - it takes over and I have to devour it once I start):Darkfever: October 26 / Bloodfever: November 9 / Faefever: November 23 / Dreamfever: December 7 / Shadowfever: December 21 / Iced: January 5 / Burned: January 12New thoughts on the second read:This is pretty much the sidhe-seers book.
After we get past the delicious beginning of the book (view spoiler)[ HOW DARE YOU LEAVE THAT ROOM MAC?!?!?
Well, maybe I'll do a quick re-read of Mac and Barrons in the beginning first.
5 and then some millions Petunia-kicking and FECKing amazing Stars We’re taking back the night!I am Mac. And I‘m back...Sisters.... after THAT ending I am starting the next and when my heart starts slowing down and I am sure that I won't die, I am promising you one HELL of a review deserving of this tremendously amazing book!Jericho, MY LOVE, what the HELL??
I DON’T KNOW!!This is a story of hells and heavens, lies and truths, reality and surrealism.
“You're leaving me, Rainbow Girl.”And I mourn that loss, even as I know that the world needs you.
The world needs you back, healthy, strong.
You thought you had broken before, when you lost Alina, but there are so many more ways to break.
This world is dangerous and the only way you are going to be able to survive it is if you break all those pretty layers down and become the weapon.
Re-read 09.06.2018Wow, Wow, Wow.It doesn’t stop!!!How much longer will the awesomeness continue?
The story picks up were we left off in Faefever, so these books absolutely need to be read in order.
(I think you could start with Faefever as that book provided a lot of backstory, but Dreamfever just jumps into the continuation and assumes the reader already knows quite a bit.)In Dreamfever you will get a lot of answers to many earlier questions, and you will form new theories and opinions as to who/what everyone is and what they really want.
SO am I sorry that I didn't wait until all books were published before reading the series?
Not only will I re-read all the books over and over again, but Barrons has taken top spot as the literary man of my dreams (sorry Atticus Finch) - and I still have one book to go, which I am not ready for because good things can't and shouldn't end.Dreamfever is, for lack of better words, fucking AWESOME.
Mac is the fiery and fierce heroine I've come to lurve and Barrons just does things to my low region that makes me go woah hey what WHAT IS THIS.
She makes you work for your answers till the very last page, and you still end up with a steaming mug of WTF.
Plot: 5 starsCharacters: 5 starsWriting: 5 starsSexiness: 5 stars (off the scale)Ending: 5 starsOverall: 5 stars
I'm dying inside.This is such an epic fucking STORY.Like in the same way that Harry Potter or Lord of the Rings or Game of Thrones is a story.They all take storytelling to its most fundamental and beautiful form.This author is telling something, not a ego-filled conceptualization of their own fantasies filled with melodrama to cushion the lack of true plot. THERE IS ACTUALLY A STORY TO TELL.And holy fuck does Karen Marie Moning have stuff to say.Super recommend.
I’ve grown mad over this series and I wouldn’t have it any other way!!DREAMFEVER was my favourite of the Fever series.
I purposely waited until the release of Shadowfever so that I wouldn’t have to wait such a long period between books.With how Dreamfever ended, I’m sooo damn glad I waited this long!
I absolutely loved reading from her POV.
I loved the differences in writing style when she was Pri-ya and then later on for the rest of the book.
It is called jealousy.”“If that’s what you think, you have a problem interpreting subtle human emotions.
Start again, trying another book first.When Mac and Barrons are having sex together finally, it will be fantastic but it will also be bitter.
It will be mainly a matter of survival.This is the book where all the major players of the series are finally brought together.All the enemies, friends and lovers (hard to tell who is what still): Barrons and his team (yes, there are a lot like him), Ryodan, Mac, V’lane, Derek O'Bannion, Christian MacKeltar, Rowena, Dani, Kat, the three Unseelie Princes, a strange monster who will have a strange ending and who may be someone we know.This is a fast paced, excellent written, smoothly executed, originality oozed book.
And after recovering from my childish burst of emotion, I had to heave my big, pregnant belly out of bed, waddle across the room, bend over (which is soooo awkward that I normally try to avoid it as much as possible these days), pick it up and then crawl back into bed so I could reread the last chapter for clues about what the hell just happened.
I wound up rereading that chapter four times in a row and I'm not any closer to knowing than I was after the first time.
This series is so addictive.
You know you have it bad for a series when you think: "If I start reading now, I'll finish this book by midnight, start the next one and if I put it down by 3am then I am still able to get six hours of uninterrupted sleep which means I can finish it tomorrow before work and suffer through the brutal book hangover over the weekend."Not even sorry.
Pre-review:I am still not sure if I want to read this sequel, after suffering three books, I think I have had enough.And today I read this review:(view spoiler)[ Rape. There is a lot of rape, attempted rape, and mind rape in this series (so far). Personally, I don't think this author could handle the subjects she was trying to talk about at all. She brushed them under the rug, which means that all of her characters also brushed them under the rug. The male love interest REGULARLY MOCKS THE WOMAN
No one seems to care that they might just be as helpless and victimized as poor Super Special Innocent Snowflake Mac. Those nameless, faceless Pri-ya do not deserve to be sympathized because they are not Mac, you know.But of coruse, God forbid that sympathy and care to be showed among women, that's how things usually go in this Fever series, women can only hate, slut-shame, be jealous of, try to control each other instead of showing sisterly concern and sympathy, and it sucks.Edited@25/06/2015Actual review starts here:Looking for great urban fantasy novel series with strong heroine, realistic characters, heart-stopping suspense, brave men and women going up against truly horrible situations, and great battles between good and evil?
We got a teasing glance in Barrons past, but other than that, book 5 has to be packed full of answers - or I may harm somebody.The characters have changed in big ways, in this book especially, and I love how Moning has voiced them.
It's not enough to tell us that Mac is different, she took her character and showed us.
World building is definitely not overlooked in this series.
I've read lots of books where there are multiple POVs but they all sort of blend in together.
This series is definitely a drug.
:)Book 5, starting now!
