https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1025250.Schooled
I loved this book! This boy, Cap (short for Capricorn) has all the perfect ideals we all think we have, but really don't, and he remains true to himself despite being the weirdest and most tortured kid in school. It's dramatic, and unrealistic, but has kind of awakened the hippie in me! I think I'll tye-dye shirts this week with the kids...
Ok, first off I'm a home schooled, so I was immediately mistrustful of this book.
But Gordon Korman is one of favorite authors, so I gave it a try.
Excuse me?The main character of the book is Cap, who is a hippy who's been raised on a farm, homeschooled by his grandma, and has never watched TV or eaten pizza.
Slowly but surely Cap is transformed (mostly due to the power of bullying) into a "normal" kid who goes to school and is popular with everyone because of his amazing talents.
Gordon Korman is a great writer, but he's wasting his talent writing these kind of books.
The book is comprised of short segments from the perspective of various characters, from Cap himself to Mrs Donnelley, social worker who takes him in after Rain has to go to rehab from hip surgery (and who grew up on the commune herself until her parents decided they wanted a different life for their family); to some of the kids Cap meets when he starts 8th grade--Hugh, who was the bottom of the bottom until Cap became a bigger target; Zack, leader of the cool kids who gets Cap elected as 8th grade president just so everyone can make even more fun of him; Naomi, who likes Zack but starts to be won over by Cap's kindness and maturity in the face of cruel enmity.
I had absolutely no idea what the book was about until I actually got it, and it turned out a whole lot better than I thought it would be.
But, when Capricorn Anderson(Cap) joins the new school, almost everyone there torments him and tries to break him so that he'll stop being SO nice.
But, that all stops once everyone realizes that Cap is a much better person than the rest of them.
After reading about Capricorn Anderson, I thought to myself that I should act more like him instead of being so stubborn.
Well it's not really a cult anymore because it's just Cap and his grandma living as mentioned in the story "in the 60s".So stuff happens and Cap goes to middle school and enter society for the first time.
I thought that was the point of her character with her understanding his whole background.If you are thinking wow this cult thing sounds interesting and are going to read this well stop right there because it's only like 5% of the story is mostly just the idiots and the bullying stuff the other 95% of the way.
I loved this book even though it wasn't what I was looking for.I was looking for books with realistically-written modern homeschooled characters, and this one was recommended to me.
Unfortunately, Capricorn Anderson is not a realistic modern homeschooler at all.
So, don't read it for that.But the book -- and Cap as a character -- is fantastic!
Cap's background is what it is because that allows him to illuminate all the things that are messed up and cruel about your standard American middle school.The story is fantastic and the different characters' POV's are spot-on.
This is one of the more enjoyable books I've read in a while, and it's one I think Jr. High kids will love.
I hope I can sell it to my secondary kids, becaues it's definitely worth reading and provides a great platform to discuss bullying, cruelty, cliques, and stereotyping.
The only disturbing thing I found in the book was its heavy reliance on stereotypes: the cowardly nerd who kind of deserves what he gets, the cruel jocks, the wishy-washy socialites, the naieve hippy.
I will say that I got a little choked up at the end, but I don't want to spoil it by discussing it at length here.
So my teacher read this aloud.At the beginning, it was kinda boring. Everyone felt like falling asleep. Then, it actually got quite a bit better! Especially when Cap was driving the bus, that's when the fun started! Pretty great, I would definitely reccomend.
SchooledSchooled is a very good book for people that just transferred a new school because of any reason. But just to have a heads up the book starts off with a different person every chapter so you get every ones perspective. This book is about a kid named Capricorn Anderson also known as cap. He lives with his grandma in community for hippies. One day his grandma falls out of a tree and brakes her back, so cap has to go and live with someone else and go to school until his grandma gets well.
SchooledSchooled is a very good book for people that just transferred a new school because of any reason.
One day his grandma falls out of a tree and brakes her back, so cap has to go and live with someone else and go to school until his grandma gets well.
He goes to live with a family the Donnelly's, Ms. Donnelly and Sophie.
The bookend up with him going to school and being bullied by Sophie and many other people.
Then cap was elected school president just so people could make fun of him.
This was an amazing book about a kid who was stuck in the 80's and comes to reality when he leaves Garland farm and goes to middle school.
For some reason I suddenly remembered this book and how much I liked it back in middle school. So, here's a rating from 2009 Aila. :P
"Schooled" introduces readers to an extremely sheltered 13-year-old boy, Cap. When the story begins, Cap and his grandmother, Rain, live on an isolated farm commune where they live an alternate lifestyle.
As Cap has lived a sheltered life (and wears hemp shoes to his first day of middle school), he is immediately the target of harassment at his new school.
Each character adds a new depth and dimension to Cap's situation, thus allowing the reader to feel as if they are apart of Cap's middle school experience--as scary as that is!
Gordan Korman has brilliantly brought to life an unlikely hero in this book about a young man who enters school for the first time in his life.
He is a "stargi...more Gordan Korman has brilliantly brought to life an unlikely hero in this book about a young man who enters school for the first time in his life.
He brings the story to life by engaging opposites characters to throw life into a pendulum of good/bad outcomes.
He brings the story to life by engaging opposites characters to throw life into a pendulum of good/bad outcomes.
When she is injured and cannot care for him for two months he is forced to enter the real world and attend middle school in town.
At first all the kids treat "Cap" terribly because he is so different.
He is easily confused by the strange, foreign environment of middle school!
His innocent, kind and peace-loving nature help him to acclimate and eventually even win the kids over.
I really enjoyed the different personalities and how they grew, particularly Cap. A fun book!
Schooled is a book about a teenage boy named Capricorn Anderson who doesn't know very much about the outside world.
But when his granny has a little mishap and he has to live in the city and go to a local public school,he is gonna have to face the real world and the new things from it.
You have to read the book to find out.I liked this book because I like how one person who didn't know anything about the outside world,made a difference in the school.
To me he seemed like a undercover hero,someone who is doing the right thing without knowing it.
This has been one interesting book to read.
Its very unique.
I love how each chapter someone speaks whats on their mind, not just one person saying the whole book.
Although it kept me confused at times but overall it was a pretty good book.
Capri Anderson has been homeschooled ever since he was 13 until his grandma Rain falls out the tree.
He is currently staying with Mrs. Donelly and her daughter Sophie.
He has never been to a public school so it might be a little awkward for him.
Strange things seem to hit him a couple times.
I love Gordon Korman. This book is a true, extreme fish-out-of-water tale of Capricorn Anderson, raised on a commune by his hippie grandmother, where he is homeschooled and, really, indoctrinated. When Rain (his grandmother) is injured, Cap spends six weeks at a publich middle school, where he is immediately elected class president-- a dubious honor always given to the biggest loser. But as Cap, who has never used a phone or handled money before in his life, struggles to learn the ropes, the people around him start appreciating his Zenlike calm and innocent outlook on life.
I love this book! it is an awesome book about a hippie named Capricorn(or Cap) who is homeschooled by his grandma, Rain.It has self love, respect for self and other, family values, thinking of others, looking deeper than the surface, and never giving up.I had never read any of Gordon Korman's books until now, and I look forward to some more excellent and creative works that reflect how people effect each other. This book will appeal to both boys and girls, I think.Great book!
Read this with the 6th grade book group. I really enjoyed it and instead of breaking it up into 4 separate weeks to discuss just read in the first sitting. Shhh!!!
Capricorn Anderson has been homeschooled by his hippie grandmother, Rain, who seems to still be living back in the '60s, on a commune whose population has dwindled down to just the two of them.
When Rain is injured, Cap must attend a public middle school, but he is not remotely prepared for life in the 21st century, as he has never seen a TV or a cell phone.
In fact, there is no telephone at all on the commune.
And he has never handled money.Cap is definitely a fish out of water in a hostile environment at first, but eventually the other kids come to appreciate his Zenlike calm, honesty, and refreshing outlook.
Capricorn has been raised on a commune, by his grandmother, Rain.
He has no experience in the “real world”, but when Rain is injured and needs time to heal, Cap is taken in by a social worker and has to go to the local middle school.
Cap, the new kid, is nothing like anyone’s ever seen before… this weird hippie kid, who doesn’t understand the first thing about middle school or kids his own age.
Because of this, he’s an easy target to pick on.This was really good.
Meant for a younger audience, it’s pretty simple and quick to read, but a good story.
Schooled follows a boy named Cap who moves from his peaceful life as a hippie to public school.
I loved the life lessons presented here.
It’s a book about how many people will like you if you act like yourself, but not necessarilly all.
It’s a book about the good in people.
“Come on, who saw what happened?""I did," I volenteered."Well?""Buttwipe wanted to know what jerkface was looking at." I turned turned eyes on the bloody and dirt-smeared brawlers.
Couldn't you see that you were both looking at each other?"The teacher's face reddened.
It’s just a lot of fun.
Cap becomes a celebrity in the school, and becomes more popular than Zach Powers.
Zach was a really popular guy until Cap became a celebrity.
Zach wanted to overthrow Cap, so he gets a nerd who doesn't like Cap to put him in an arch rival's jersey, for football.
The team tackles him and Cap gets hurt.
Also, one of Zach's best friends, Darryl, punches Zach because he figures out that he tried to hurt Cap. Cap gets in the way because he doesn't like physical violence, but gets punched in the face accidentally by Darryl.
Capricorn Anderson was a homeschooled hippie teenager living with his grandmother...
He would have to go to a public school filled with kids trying to torment him.Of course, on the other hand, Cap Anderson is actually a pretty smart kid...
Read this hilarious book filled with friends, bullies, mistakes, and more!
Although this book is a tad bit unrealistic, I thoroughly enjoyed it!
Personally, I would recommend this book to kids ages ten through twelve.
I really loved how Mr. Korman made the main character have a likable personality.
Korman also used wonderful strategies to add in humor, excitement, and different POVs!
A cute and funny story. Really well written. Each chapter is told from different characters' viewpoints. The main character, Cap (short for Capricorn), has been raised in isolation on a commune with his grandmother, a '60s hippies. When she breaks her hip and has to go to a hospital for 6 weeks, Cap has to go into foster care and attend public middle school. He is a target for bullies, but he perseveres and becomes the most popular kid at school because of his honesty and unique outlook on life.
I liked this book because it was a quick read. I also liked that each chapter came from another character's perspective. That style brought all of the characters, good and bad, into the reader's sympathy and perspective.
This was such a cute, heartwarming and funny story! We read it aloud together as a family and we all loved it.
I’ve been looking for a book like this for almost a year but have come up empty until reading “schooled”. Sweet, innocent and funny- great for the soul.
If you're looking for humour, you are hands down in need of some Gordan Korman.(He has also written more than 80 books and some have been made into movies which don't do the books justice of course but they're still watch-worthy I adore this man okay moving to the review now.)Schooled is the story of Capricorn Anderson who is thirteen years old and if you think that means the narrative voice in this book is a bit young and simplified you would be right, but if you think that means this book is not good for older readers, you would be wrong.
Schooled by Gordon Korman is about a 13 year old boy who knows nothing about the outside world. Capricorn Anderson, or better known as Cap, was raised his whole life at Garland Farms because his parents had died when he was little and he needed to live forevermore with his grandmother. There had been more people at Garland, but they had all left after a while and now it was just Rain {his grandmother} and Cap. They were getting along just fine until Rain fell out of a tree while picking plums a
Capricorn Anderson, or better known as Cap, was raised his whole life at Garland Farms because his parents had died when he was little and he needed to live forevermore with his grandmother.
There had been more people at Garland, but they had all left after a while and now it was just Rain {his grandmother} and Cap. They were getting along just fine until Rain fell out of a tree while picking plums and broke her hip.
This book was also made funny by the moments where Cap was so bewildered by certain things.
