https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69392.Milkweed
Although it is considered a YA novel, any book (fiction or non-fiction) with a theme centered around the holocaust, is a novel I want to preview before allowing my child to absorb.I was immediately drawn to the short sentence structure and quick action.
From the beginning, the reader is drawn into an eight year-old orphan boy's innocent view of a world where he must steal, and become virtually invisible, to survive.
It is the boy's innocent and honest view of the world around him during one of the most horrific times in history that kept me turning the pages.
I'm drawn to the stories of the people - I want to know what it is in us that makes us so cruel to others.
When Misha ends up branded as a Jew and living in a ghetto in Warsaw, the tables turn a bit and he begins to act the "older brother" role for a young girl named Janina.
Her father, Tobiasz, takes in Misha as one of the family, and Misha smuggles food in from outside the ghetto to help feed the family, and a house of orphans in the care of another man.
This is the first Jerry Spinelli book that I have read.
Spinelli does well to portray the voice of a young orphan boy in Warsaw.
There are a lot of reviews about this and the book "The Boy in the Striped Pajamas" that say that it is unbelievable that there were children that did not know what was going on around them.
This was a great book about friendship and the importance of families, no matter who they are make up of.
Misha really didn't care about what group: thieves, orphans, Jews, Jackboots, he belonged in, he just wanted to belong.
This story feeds into the fact that victims need to be better, stronger, faster, more clever, etc - and if they are, they can outsmart their abusers.
I feel that stories like this perpetuate the myth that the victim is responsible for their own escape from abuse.
This story asks the questions: "Misha was able to walk away from the Ghetto - why didn't all those other Jews just walk away from the Ghetto?" It isn't realistic - I feel this story downplays the suffering of those who lived through the death camps and all of those who didn't.
Now that I've identified why I don't like this book, I feel better.
What a powerful book.
However, as we read today's headlines, and we see people, many of whom are in positions of great power, vilifying all Muslims because some are extremist terrorists, honestly the extremist "Christians" running America right now are a whole lot scarier.
Let's hope justice catches up to them, and soon.WWII in Poland, young and old starving, doing what they have to do to survive, thousands of Jews being imprisoned, massacred: This book brought that whole horrible time up close and personal.
A powerful read, and a beautifully performed audiobook, as well.
I grew up trying to learn all I could about war history, so the experiences described in Milkweed were nothing I hadn't read about or seen on film before, but the story of life in Nazi-occupied Europe through the eyes of a child, who at first can't even understand what's going on, packs quite an emotional wallop.
I was a bit put off at first, but now that I've finished the book I think it serves the story well.
And the book is quality, indeed.
I would have given Milkweed 4, maybe even 5 stars if it ends right after the war.
I give this book 5 stars for many reasons: It was well written, it was age appropriate, it had a great message, it kept me interested, and the author nailed the basic nature of humans in each character, whether good or bad.
It wasn't meant to be the best book ever written on WWII or the holocaust.
And I think that is saying a lot, especially when I consider some the inappropriate books my kids have been given to read over the years.
Set in Poland during World War II Milkweed is told through the unique perspective of one of those lost-through-the-cracks kids....
Misha stumbles upon a group of boys, thieves like himself, and learns a bit about what is happening and what it means.
Spinelli uses Misha's voice to show us what the world looked like and what it truly means to be invisible.
This is one of those books that reminds me I'm a monster, or that I have broken eyes, or some such thing.....
I bet this book makes loads of people cry but not me, my eyes were bone dry.
There's something special, something real, about Jerry Spinelli's books.
You don't just read his books.
You get inside the pages and stand on the street corner while the pickpockets run, the bombs fall, and the Jackboots march in their perfect rows.
I had to read the whole book in one sitting.
You lived and breathed with the characters, sharing their laughter, triumph, tears and the hopelessness of their world.
You see why they say mothers aren't real, and neither are oranges.
Real mother's don't die.
I don't often find books that capture a world.
It was written in Spinelli's usual simplistic style, which made it a quick and easy read.
I didn't quite like the way it was written as much as I did in Stargirl.
Not much happened throughout the book and though it was an easy read due to the writing style, it wasn't necessarily the most engaging or interesting one for me personally.
I will probably read it again later and see if my thoughts change, because maybe my mood/slump has affected my opinion too much.
Or maybe I just didn't love this as much as I thought that I would.
Only One Spoiler Alert sort ofThis is an amazing book. This book shows that even in darkness their is color meaning even though it's a really hard situation keep on hoping. This was an enjoyable book because it showed you can still help others even if you need the same help. For example Misha needed food but he still gave food to the orphans and his "family." This book can show you that not everyone is cruel.
I read this for school, and I was fascinated and couldn't put it down! I would highly recommend it
Milkweed By: Jerry SpinelliMilkweed is an amazing book written by Jerry Spinelli that takes you on an amazing journey of a young boy’s life during World War II, the holocaust.
To read this book, you don’t have to be a fan of historical fiction or WWII.
This book just makes you want to dive into the book and help each one of the characters.
This specific book was what made me love reading historical fictions because they’re not just stories.
There are many different stories written about the holocaust but never have I read one written through the perspective of a young orphaned around my age.
Strangely enough, neither protagonist knows what a Jew is at the start of their story.Milkweed, told from the perspective of a young orphan growing up on the streets in Warsaw and later in the Warsaw ghetto, has all the ingredients for a thought-provoking exploration of what would be challenging and important themes for readers for any age.
Weighty symbolism and a tragic setting are not enough to carry a story.The author is, to an extent, faithful to history.
I originally picked this book up because of the title; we're big monarch butterfly fans in my house.
I read the book in about two days and did like the story and was quite captivated by it.I had trouble with two things.
I was left wondering why he hadn't come across the other boys before.
I felt like that was unbelievable.This is the second YA book written from a childs' perspective that I've read in in the past two weeks.
The other was The Boy in the Striped Pajamas.
Misha(Stopthief), like Bruno, seemed naive beyond what I considered reasonable.
Author - Jerry SpinelliThis is a young adult book - maybe even for middle schoolers.It takes place during WWII in Warsaw, Poland.
This boy knows nothing about himself - not his name, not where he lives, not even his age.
The author uses very simple language and sentence structure in the beginning of the book so that we are drawn into this child's state of being.His friends do not know what to make of him, but it is believed he might be a Gypsy, not a Jew. He makes a friend in Warsaw, a little girl who is Jewish.
Author: Jerry SpinelliTitle: MilkweedGenre: historical fictionPublication Info: Random House, New York, 2003Recommended Age: 11 and olderPlot Summary: A pocket-picking orphan who thinks his name is “stopthief” tells of his experiences during the Holocaust.
Uri gives Stopthief a new name and makes up his background, telling him he came from a large Russian gypsy family and was kidnapped and brought to Warsaw.
Personal Notes: I would recommend this book to anyone who wants to read about history or the holocaust.
I think adults should read this one…it is definitely worth the time.
I read this book because my son (Boy 2) asked me to.
I read much of the book holding my breath, wondering what horrors he now knew about.
Spinelli packs a lot into this book, but he employs his usual sparse writing style and doesn't draw a lot of attention to the bad stuff.
My older son acknowledged that this wasn't the kind of writing he likes (he's more of a fantasy guy), but that "it was a really good story anyway." I couldn't be more excited about having an in-house book group with my family of choice.
Boy 1 is choosing next month's book!
He is a gypsy, a thief, but still a boy.
A boy who doesn't know who or what he is until his friend, Uri, tells him.
This story is about a young boy that finds himself in a small town that is under the Nazi power.
He has no family or home, so he steals to survive.
Uri, a slightly older boy, takes Misha under his wing and teaches him how to stay safe and fed.
He tells this story in a way where it seems like you are watching a movie rather than reading a book.
Perhaps that is why this still works as a YA novel on some level.The protagonist, an idiot savant and a genius at thievery, is an orphan child living in Warsaw during the Holocaust.
He forges a series of friendships with other orphans, a bunch of thieves, and a Jewish family - relationships which I feel are (except for that with the Jewish family) too sketchy and shallow to be significant.The ending of the novel is especially disappointing - I don't even remember it anymore, but do remember the feeling of bemusement mingled with relief.
A worthy addition to the list of Holocaust stories suitable for YA readers. Poignant and well written, about an 8-year-old orphan who survived the Warsaw ghetto during WWII.
I thought that Misha's relationship to Uri as they grew older was really interesting, and was a little sad that Spinelli didn't develop that further, even though Misha was "shifting alliances" from feeling his street friends were his family to feeling like he was Dr. Milgrom's child and claiming to all his friends that Janina was his sister when he introduced them (which I thought was very sweet).
SOOO GOOD!! Anyone can enjoy this book if they are fascinated by WWII. I think y favorite character would have to be Misha. Misha is the main character, but if you are more into side characters that's fine too. Anyone would love this.
This would have been 4 stars if not for the way the story was handled after the war ended. The story and characters were so well developed up to that point. Although the ending was neatly wrapped up, it was rushed and felt incomplete.
I took such a long time because I was so busy, but the novel was just so interesting.
His innocence is just so funny; this cute kid made me laugh hard at times when I was so pissed off from life.
He was so loyal and loving he kept walking beside the tracks to find her until a farmer got him.
The novel contained like a zillion symbols and I got a few.
To anyone hesitating, go ahead, you'll not just like it, you'll love it.
Moving and deeply sad story of a boy's life in Warsaw during the Holocaust. But Spinelli's gift of telling a story from a child's point of view brings hope, even to the Warsaw ghetto.
We've chosen this to read for the November 2008 Children's Book Club.
My students wanted to read about the Holocaust and I think this will provide an interesting discussion.
We discussed this November 12.
Spinelli spins an almost ethereal tale about a small orphan child in Warsaw during the Holocaust and at the time of the Warsaw Ghetto.
Spinelli doesn't make it an easy read - the horrors are right out there - but the viewpoint makes this a unique way of knowing about this horrendous period of history.This was the second time I read this book and it really is extraordinary.
Jerry Spinelli is cranking out books left and write, partly because his prose are so simple.
In this simple, yet well-told story, we follow a young, homeless boy from the beginnings of the Holocaust to the more deadly pinnacles of it.
We see how stereotypes were in place and those responsible did nothing to stop it, rather to perpetuate it.
We understand how so many unfortunate people caught in the evil workings of the Holocaust were left to fend for themselves, only they didn't have the resources and know-how to overcome what was ultimately one of the most sinister events in history.
I always read books about the holocaust, waiting for some piece of a happy ending that never comes.
It was a horrible time in our history.
But I credit the author in the telling of this story: through the eyes of this young and simple-minded boy, a beautifully painful narrative unfolds.
Part of the beauty of the telling is in the fact that Misha doesn't appear to understand just how bad things are and yet he always has compassion for others.
So through this story the reader is able to find some of the happy that Misha wants for others - especially Janina.
I loved this novel!
I've read many YA novels based on the Holocaust since we teach a unit on it every year.
This novel was told from, what I consider to be, a unique perspective - a child previously unattached to any "normal" family structure.
It is a story largely untold in many of the other novels out there, so the storyline felt fresh.
So often we hear of families torn apart and how people learned to survive after losing everyone they love in the Holocaust.
This novel provides a glimpse into that experience.
