https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2040557.Poor_Man_s_Orange
A truly Australian novel which depicts generational poverty in such a way that the reader is confronted with the reality of what poverty truly means.I found it easy to picture my grandmother living during this time in Australian history.
On the other hand the sense of community was real, people who had nothing always found something to give to those less fortunate than themselves.I would make this compulsory reading for the teens of today and ask them how and why did living conditions and working conditions 'improve'.
The Harp in the South trilogy can be called a bittersweet one, but PMO takes it even further. There is a lot of tragedy in this final volume, but Park's writing is a testimony to the hard knocks that life gives us, but how we struggle on regardless, even though we wonder why we do so. The poor man's orange has been tasted by everyone, and I think this book would resonate with all readers.
What Park does, not by standing on a soapbox and waving a finger at us as she lectures us about not judging the poor for being dirty, but by showing us the absolute impossibility of keeping a clean house when you are impoverished.
The way Dolour manages to escape the grip of filth cannot be to overcome it because that would defeat the author’s purpose of showing how impossible it is to defeat dirt when you are poor.
You can believe it.Park also builds character by showing, again through a poignant scene, what Dolour admires.
Park uses this as a way to show again, as she shows over and over again, the romantic sensibility of the heroine.
This is a really enjoyable series and Poor Man's Orange is the final part in the trilogy - although it was written second (published 1949) by Ruth Park (she published The Harp in the South in 1948).
I chose to read them in the order they were written and I'm happy with this choice (the first part, chronologically speaking, is Missus, but this was actually written over thirty years later, and published in 1985).
If like me you were almost totally ignorant about Australian literature I can definitely recommend reading this series!
Definitely plan to read more by and about Ruth Park.
Poor Man's Orange takes everything that  The Harp in the South  had to offer and puts it through the wringer: more sadness! More marital discord! More conviction of the crabs in the bucket theory!Shifting the focus to Dolour for this piece was a good idea, but you get the impression that Park did not want to reward her ambition. Dolour isn't exactly punished in this novel, but she certainly cannot catch a break. As such Poor Man's Orange is elegiac in tone, as Park says goodbye to a Surry Hills
Poor Man's Orange takes everything that 
More conviction of the crabs in the bucket theory!Shifting the focus to Dolour for this piece was a good idea, but you get the impression that Park did not want to reward her ambition.
As such Poor Man's Orange is elegiac in tone, as Park says goodbye to a Surry Hills that was dying out.
The implication is almost that the poor should stay in the countryside where they belong because the city will swallow them whole.
We'll never know, because instead of sequelising her first two works, she chose to write 
instead.
4.5
It’s a grim story. The descriptions are vivid and the themes especially about women are strong. I
Australia's John Steinbeck, writing intimately about the forlorn lives of Post-Depression Surry Hills slum Sydney. Heartbreaking desolation, drudge and despair, intense characters and narrative, the third of a the Darcy trilogy, perhaps slightly less strong that Harp in the South, an essential read for all Australians.
Third of the Harp in the South series. Just loved it
I fell head over heels in love with the Darcy family and with Ruth Park's use of language. Beautifully written.
(Disclaimer: I am actually reviewing the whole trilogy, so I have copied and pasted this review for all three books)Having previously only read Ruth Park’s books for children and adults, I decided time was well overdue to get around to her “Harp in the South” trilogy – which had actually begun with “A Harp in the South” before she followed it with “Poor Man’s Orange”, then she wrote the prequel “Missus.” So even though I had read them in order of the family’s story, they were written and published in a different order and I do believe they should actually be read in the publication order (ie start with the second one.) This is because I feel as though things were “revealed” in the prequel that I feel are more powerful when read in retrospect.I had started reading the book in print (but can’t remember why this got abandoned – I think I had to return the library copy) so I discovered the Bolinda audio versions of all three, and having the same narrator across the three stories was great.
such a sweet story. full of life's hard truths but always a lesson to be learned or a virtue to practice or the silver lining to be found... absolutely loved it!!!
Please please please don’t stop after Harp in the South this 3rd book is equal to all and brilliantly written.
I love Ruth Parks Australian writing style - engaging and warm - excellent read
The final in the Harp in the South trilogy.....just heartwrenching....how tough our ancestors had it.
Well its a classic for a reason. Real, in a way that few books are, but keeping its sense of humour, and with a transporting sense of time and place. The characters are big without being too much larger than life, and the ending is as good as we're going to get. You will cry, and you will get angry but Ruth Park should be read by everyone because she is fantastic.
Beautiful writing but just so awfully grim and hopeless. Harp in the South had some hope and happiness, but Poor Man's Orange was much, much darker. These three novels are such a wonderful documentation of a facet of Australian life that is often ignored and swept under the carpet.
I really enjoyed re-reading this book after many years! Life was certainly tough in Surry Hills in the years after Word War II - a bit different to today's Surry Hills. Loved the character Dolour and Ruth Park's wonderful writing!
Somewhat melodramatic ... But historically accurate and very moving. I love the Darcy family. Reading this series as a young woman helped me to understand my parents and my grand parents generation.
I listened to the Bolinda Audio book version of this in the car on a long drive. Really enjoyed it. Beautiful writing on the fairly mundane events of a family in the 50s in Sydney.Perhaps a little feminine for my liking but I could definitely appreciate the quality of this writing.
A great continuation of the story - a soapie really with some good social commentary.
Brilliant! I love Ruth Park's writing. Just read it.
Liked this better than Harp in the South. So very sad though.
loved these books..
There's an awful lot of heartbreak in here. Sometimes so much it makes it hard to keep reading.
I love a good historical saga, me. This one was very slightly overwrought, a bit too self conscious about historical and cultural sightseeing, but forgivable.
Brilliant sequel to Harp in the South.
A beautifully written novel that is a worthy sequel to The Harp in the South. Magical.
Loved this story, sad, funny and everything in between. Everyone was very tolerant of each other they had no choice.
