https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9813.The_Nonexistent_Knight_The_Cloven_Viscount
شوالیه ناموجود هم یکی دیگر از شاهکارهای رمان پست مدرنیستی است که باز بر پایه اصل پارودی یا نقیضه سرایی شکل گرفته
This is the third time I've read *The Cloven Viscount* -- one of the very few books I've read three times.
This short novel is the first in a loose trilogy of madly inventive tales called OUR ANCESTORS and is a fitting start to one of the most amazing story cycles in literary history!*The Cloven Viscount* tells the bizarre tale of Medardo, Viscount of Terralba, who is bisected by a cannonball during the wars against the Turks.
Pleasant enough but didn't really grab my attentionThis book comprises two novellas set in medieval or late medieval times. The first is about an empty suit of armour which may just be the best knight in all of Christendom.I much preferred the second story whereby a nobleman gets sliced in two when fighting the Turks and becomes the ultimate "good cop/bad cop"Playfulness and humour as ever from Mr C but a bit meh
آنوقت اینطور به نظر می رسد که آدم دیگر نمی تواند در صفحه ای که سیاه کرده است پناه بجوید."این صفحاتی که چیز ارزشمندی در آن ها نیست چه کاری برایم انجام خواهد داد؟ کتاب ها و دعاها فقط آن اندازه ارزش دارد که خود تو می ارزی.داستان از دو بخش کلی تشکیل شده که توسط راهبه ای بیان می شود.
He feasts with Charlemagne as, since he is afforded a chair due to his rank, he *must* attend, and occupies himself in endless and precise divisions and re-arrangements of food into ever smaller crumbs and parcels, before ordering the remains taken away and more brought.He is a modern character and reminds us of a lot of the quasi-robotic, hyper-logical, rule-obsessed contextless characters we remember from genre fiction.The most charming scene involves his attempted (well, actual) seduction by the Widow Priscilla in which the humanless man bends ever-so-slightly in his measured existence and twists his tables of knowledge and response-algorithms in such as way as to come as close as he can to the image of the romantic knight.
Maybe too there came a point when this diluted will and consciousness of self was condensed, turned to sediment, as imperceptible watery particles condense into banks of clouds; and then maybe this sediment merged by chance or instinct, with some name or family or military rank or duties or regulations, above all in an empty armor, for in times when armor was necessary even for a man who existed, how much f themore was it for one who didn't.
It combines two novellas which, along with a third story not included in this edition, make up the collection Our Ancestors: The Cloven Viscount, The Baron in the Trees, The Non-Existent Knight.
The first, from which the above excerpt is taken, tells of a knight who is simply an empty suit of armor.
I really have to give credit to this Archibald Colquhoun, who translated most of what I've read by the man.'The Nonexistent Knight' is Calvino's funniest story.
Without a doubt, this story has the funniest seduction in the history of literature, involving a lusty noblewoman who lures knights to her castle via staged bear attack, who then proceeds to make love to a man who doesn't exist, a suit of armor that spends most of the time moving the bed for the right light.'The Cloven Viscount' is a more gruesome story.
Reading Calvino just makes me feel incredible, especially these novels.
Calvino's blend of fantastic whimsy bordering on absurdism is always entertaining but then you're taken a bit by surprise as a fairly thought-provoking philosophical or moral critique emerges. "The Cloven Viscount" opposes excessive badness with excessive goodness, "The Nonexistent Knight" parodies Renaissance tales of courtly conduct (Quixote-style) as it actually discusses the nature of being and non-being.
Actual rating: 3.5 stars
I had tried to read another book by Calvino before, and could not get through the first ten pages.
This time I was determined; I heard these two tales were his best, etc.
Well, I struggled through them and made it, but I am not sure if I will ever read Calvino again.
The first tale is certainly the more humorous of the two.
(Oh, wait, The Holy Grail!) The second tale seemed more moralistic.
But with both, it is not clear what Calvino is trying to do, trying to say, and where the story is going at any given point.
Italo Calvino is a brilliant comic writer, and I love reading his tales, which seem plucked from the Italian countryside.
He's not afraid to be bizarre, too, as in the first story, which recounts the exploits of an animate suit of armor in Charlemagne's army--so dignified and courteous, yet ambivalent of his own nonexistence.
His love scenes, creaking in full, hollow armor, are quite funny.
The second story involves a viscount who gets torn in half by a cannonball while fighting the Ottoman Turks.
With Italo Calvino, that's never a worry.
Both tales were wonderfully bizarre (I enjoyed the Non-existent Knight a little more as it wasnt as macabre and twisted/cruel as the Cloven Viscount could be).
I liked the narrator's perspective in the Cloven Viscount, but am not sure it really added much to the overall tale.This review is a little disjointed, perhaps because I was not gripped by an overall theme or message that either tale emparted.
What didn't come through was what to do with that observation...and perhaps the answer is that there is nothing to be 'done.' Anyway, I will say that the Viscount had one of the best closing lines of any work I have read recently.
These two stories, or fables, are mystical and magical, yet utterly earthy and grounded in the physicalities of human experience. They will make you laugh and cry as you find your own fears and longings deciphered somehow, in these pages. To read and re-read.
I enjoyed the second novella better than the first, but maybe that’s because I had become better acquainted with the humor and style of Calvino. I am looking forward to exploring more.
Sir Agilulf Emo Bertrandin of the Guildivern is a nonexistent knight; however, as Charlemagne puts it, 'for someone who does not exist,' he 'seems in [irksomely] fine form.' The story sounds nutty as so many crazy things are happening as if everything is just fine but once you keep your disbelief at the background and delve into what is really going on, the logic of the story begins to grandiosely emerge.Sir Agiluf is the envy of the ambitious Raimbaut, is ever-seductive to Bradamante, and is the most charming knight of the widow Lady Priscilla.
He represents the Lacanian ultraperfect yet nonexistent Other, i.e. the [mis]perception of the [super]ego, and happens to be the omnipresent exasperation of his fellow paladins.The story gradually assumes new fascinating turns.
too, italo's characters, main and secondary, are some of the most quaint, eccentric, and lovable ever to animate a page."so of love as of war i shall give a picture as best i can imagine it.
the art of writing tales consists in an ability to draw the rest of life from the nothing one has understood of it, but life begins again at the end of the page when one realises that one knew nothing whatsoever." ~from the nonexistent knight
Ligt het aan mij, of is het echt zo dat weinig mensen Italo Calvino kennen?
Ik leerde deze schrijver kennen omdat iemand mij De baron in de bomen tipte.
Straf, want ik hou niet bepaald van magisch realisme en laat Calvino een exponent van dit genre zijn.Daarom stortte ik mij een tijdje geleden op De gespleten burggraaf, een boek dat dat duidelijk van dezelfde hand als als De baron in de bomen.
Opnieuw een adellijke type, opnieuw een verhaal dat zich goeddeels in de natuur afspeelt, opnieuw een totaal van de pot gerukt uitgangspunt.
Ja, ik ga nog boeken van Calvino lezen.
I think what I like about Calvino is that his novels feel like the work of a man who finds so much joy in reading and imagination and tries to write novels that capture that feeling.
I don't think there's ever any agenda with him, other than to give the simple pleasure of reading.Like The Baron in the Trees, this feels like a fairy tale in the best sense.
Fantastic events are treated as being barely out of the ordinary and the impossible feels logical.
I also like how the prejudices and superstitions of the era they take place in are portrayed as objective fact.
My first, and still my favorite. The two novellas housed in this tome are phenomenal examples of Calvino's craft, beautifully mixing the historical and the fantastical, the literal and the symbolic. Not as daring as If On a Winter's Night a Traveler and not quite as charming as The Baron in the Trees, The Nonexistent Knight and (particularly)The Cloven Viscount embodies everything I adore about his writing and writing in general.
Calvino writes the most charming fables; his stories always make me smile, and usually they contain some sort of lesson or satirical element. The Cloven Viscount was the gem of this book. It's a morbid, violent little tale about the literal duality of man's good and evil nature, and how the extreme of good is just as off-putting as the extreme of evil. Calvino virgins, however, should still begin their forays into his work with If On A Winter's Night A Traveler.
Among Calvino's very best. Two novellas, similar in length (143 & 102 pages), in folklore-fantasy (a knight who is an empty suit of armor; a viscount who is cloven into a good and evil half), and in narration. Both superb.
As someone with autism, I can say that the character Gurduloo from the Non-Existent Knight is a perfect metaphor for what it's like to have autism.
It's good because there is an ecstasy that comes from completely losing yourself in your surroundings, as the Knights of the Grail show in this book (and the late autistic author Donna Williams shows in her book "Autism and Sensing: The Unlost Instinct"), but it's bad because we therefore end up being "prisoner of the world's stuff." We are beneath everything.
Two lighthearted novella-length fairy tales about "incomplete" people: an empty suit of armor and a nobleman split into two independently conscious halves.
For example, you can explicate about what the knight Agilulf's emptiness symbolizes, and it clearly does contribute to the idea that he is otherworldly, fastidious to the point of inhumanity, etc.
But Agilulf is in fact not inhuman; he gets mixed up in amusing escapades, arouses sympathy at times, etc.
and hollowness aside is not so dissimilar from some people I know.
For me, he's just a character and the hollowness is an aspect, like Cassius having a lean and hungry look.
This book does not get five stars because I did not find the setting of either of the two novellas to be compelling and each of the two stories does not become interesting until you are at least half way through. Despite these shortcomings, each novella did conclude with a twist that leaves you feeling satisfied and makes the time spent reading worthwhile.
The Nonexistent Knight was hilarious and wonderful, the Cloven Viscount not so much - while both of these novellas have outstanding premises, Knight just delivers on more wacky promises than the Cloven Viscount.
Didn't expect anything less from Calvino!!! A very amusing novela with many twists as well as some really interesting philosophical comments. It was the second time I read "The Nonexistent Knight" and I found it superb once more!!! Highly recommended!!!
Lovely comment on philosophical dichotomy. Almost Jungian when showing the necessity of the shadow self. Pastoral imagery. Short and sweet. Book 1 of my Calvino marathon.
Calvino!
Two interesting, fun, and at times thought-provoking reads. Recommended.
Another example when author intrigues you throughout the book but exhausts himself at the end and just drops a lazy, below average ending, leaving no explanations (because that’s easier, right?)
