https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60737.A_Summons_to_Memphis
I read Pulitzer winning A Summon to Memphis by Peter Taylor as part of my classic bingo card.
Taylor details the differences of life between Nashville and Memphis, Tennessee, creating a premise in which a family's move from one city to the other causes a family to crumble.
Phillip Carver is thirteen years old when his father meets financial ruin and moves his family from Nashville to Memphis.
Such unravels a plot in which Phillip as the narrator alternates between present times and flashbacks, detailing how his father, in a never ending quest to constantly assert authority, demands to control every picayune detail of his children's life.
A brief, leisurely novel written by a master of the short story, A Summons to Memphis is an excellent example of what Henry James referred to as "the beautiful and blessed nouvelle." The narrator Phillip, a New York City book editor, is the son of imposing Memphis lawyer George Carver.
Phillip, meanwhile, is still obsessed with the belief that his father's decision to move the family from Nashville to Memphis forty years earlier blighted all of their lives.I think the key to appreciating the subtlety of this novel is to realize that--even though the narrator considers himself to be superior to his "provincial" family--he is narrow, selfish and capable of only a limited range of emotions.
Peter Taylor's Pulitzer Prize winning A Summons to Memphis is an extraordinary piece of literary fiction.The narrator is Phillip Carver, a 49 year old man living in New York City working as an editor and rare books dealer in the mid 1960s.
Having lived most of my life in Middle Tennessee except for the decade I lived in Memphis, the most interesting part of the novel for me is the contrasting of the cities of Nashville and Memphis.
George views Nashville as a city of schools and churches, fox hunts and horse shows while Memphis is a place of steamboats and card playing, a less refined society.
One sister had to give up an engagement; Philip was forever torn from an adolescent love; and the children’s mother, dead a couple of years before the book begins, had to leave behind all that was familiar and start anew.The story unfolds leisurely, Taylor’s prose the equivalent of a man dressed in a seersucker suit and bowtie gently rocking on his chair on a porch, pausing to sip from a cool drink before he moves on.
Names and details had faded from memory, like morning mist evaporating when the sun comes out.It’s a book that really needs to be read after one’s lived a certain number of years.
Philip is himself telling us of what happened, recounting also past events—the family’s move from Nashville to Memphis in 1931 when he was thirteen, his first and later attractions to different girls and his assignments during the Second World War. The story revolves around family relationships.
I will explain why.First of all, we are being t-o-l-d by Philip what happened in his family.
The degree to which subsidiary characters fold and do just as they are told, that Philip’s father was able to (view spoiler)[persuade / bribe all his children’s lovers to leave (hide spoiler)], I find totally unbelievable.Flipping back and forth in time, making sense of all the facts thrown at you, makes the whole telling of the story too complicated.
Beverly and Jo are those wild girls from Nashville who invent scandalous reputations for themselves, clearly as revenge upon their father who valued his reputation so highly.The summons to Memphis is made by the Carver sisters to remaining brother Phillip to prevent the impending marriage of their 81 year old father to a younger woman named Clara Starkville.
There is serious question as to whether his decisions were based on his children's best interests or the preservation of his own reputation."A Summons to Memphis" is a story of family, forgiveness, recognition, and reconciliation.
This is really a very strong 4.5 rating.I read this book many years ago, but remember nothing of the story at all.
Phillip is summoned to Memphis from NY by his sisters when their 81 year old widowed father wants to re-marry.
The family had been summoned to Memphis by that same father when he moved the family there from Nashville thirty years prior to the setting of the book.
Of course, the entire family considered the move a betrayal by their father, as the children were in their teens, and their mother was part of an old Nashville family and had never lived anywhere else.
Il protagonista è un agiato signore di mezz'età in crisi con la propria compagna, quando viene coinvolto dalle due sorelle che vivono lontano, appunto a Memphis, per una questione molto particolare.Queste due bizzarre donne ultracinquantenni, nubili, dalla doppia o tripla vita, aggiornano il fratello sull'ottuogenario padre rimasto recentemente vedovo : "qualsiasi idea sbagliata avesse di sé e del mondo, il vecchio gentiluomo sapeva senza dubbio quali vestiti gli stavano bene".
1986 must have been a singularly awful year for literature, because the book that won the Pulitzer that year would have struggled during the years when Taylor (most of whose work was released during the forties) was in his salad days.This is not to say A Summons to Memphis, Taylor's first novel in forty years, is a bad book.
A Summons to Memphis, on the other hand, just kind of sits there being nice.Phillip Carver (one breathes a sigh of relief that no one in the family is named Raymond) is the sixtyish son of a man who plans to remarry.
As he begins to see the prevention of the marriage as an act of revenge by the sisters, he begins to reconstruct the origin of the complicated relationship all these children share with their sometimes overbearing and always self-consumed father.Initially, it is hard to muster much sympathy for Phillip, this fully grown man who seems to operate from such a cold center, but as the book progresses, we begin to see him more clearly and how he has been shaped by the events of his life: the original abrupt move to Memphis from Nashville, the separation from his first and perhaps only love, the usurping of his place in his father’s life by his own best friend, Alex Mercer.
As the narrator, Phillip Carver, tells his family’s story, the author Peter Taylor shows the waning way of life of genteel society in Nashville and Memphis.
This book won the Pulitzer Prize in 1987.The narrator’s father was born perhaps a generation, maybe two, after slavery on one of the family estates outside of Memphis.
The irony hangs, but is unmentioned, that the father’s actions in different ways ended the marriage plans of each of his four children, 3 of whom, now in their 50’s are still single, and one is deceased.His son, the narrator, now an established rare book dealer and living in Manhattan, shows how much of his father’s control was based on his bearing, appearance, will and the social standing of his landowning family.
I've just finished 'The Help' and a re-read of 'To Kill A Mockingbird' so my Read-ometer is in serious need of recalibration.
I know there is a good short story at the core of this but the narrator's emotional remoteness failed to pull me in.
So I'm just going to say it was missing that Southern "warmth" I always look for.
I did on the other hand thoroughly enjoy all of the historical information and cultural descriptions of Nashville and Memphis.
That was a treat.
For anyone that can easily slow down to the pace of a Henry James novel, this could be greatly appreciated.

He is summoned back to Memphis, his family’s adopted city, several times during the book, particularly when his father is planning to remarry at the age of 81.
I struggled with understanding them.
Partly, I believe, because I also struggled with the narration.
For example, take this passage: “During all that long, lonely week since Holly’s departure I had felt so low that it seemed momentarily I was really glad there was somebody in Memphis who had something wrong too.
I did adjust as the book went along, but thank goodness it was short.
This is a beautifully written book about family and both the love and pain they inflict upon us.
It is about perspective and how each of us sees the same thing differently, which is why each adult sibling in a family can remember the same facts and events very differently from one another.
It is about the pain of the loss of a parent, and the shock of seeing your long-married parent with someone new.
They feel like people we all know.
And, at times, they feel like people we mock.
I would not have had enough life experience at that time to really take it in and understand the depth of it.
The first removal of the Carter family was when their societal status and their beloved home in Nashville is taken away from them by their father.
Mr. Carter is conned and disgraced by his dear friend Mr. Shackleford and the family must move from Nashville to the other, and considered less grand, side of the state to the city of Memphis.
The entire book is written by the escaped to Manhattan son and is, in essence, a bunch of long, rambling notes about the family's removal to Memphis and how that move formed the rest of the families lives.
But when he gets a surprise phone call from his older sister, followed only minutes later by a call from his second sister, and then from an old family friend, he knows he has been summoned to Memphis to help deal with the “disaster.” A mere two years after his mother’s death, his 80-something father has plans to remarry and his adult children have no intention of letting him do so.George Carver has always been the head of his family, and while he was gentlemanly and generous with his children he also thwarted any potential romantic relationship they might have.
A college teacher recommended this book to me over 20 years ago but I just got around to reading it and I'm glad I did.
At first I thought that this book was just a short story and he was writing this way to flesh it out enough to make it into a novel.
He says that it was so foolish of his partner to aspire to be a big-time publisher when her chief function as a woman is to serve men.
I feel like I don't know any of these characters because they are being filtered through someone so self-centered and narcissistic that they don't even seem real.
Reading this book felt like a chore and by the end all I cared about was finishing it.
I am so frustrated and upset about this book I can't even form a coherent review.
I do not understand how this book won a Pulitzer Prize.
Was there actually a story in that heap of recollections?
This story is like driving through Kansas.
Each chapter is a hiccup of the prior, and he goes back into his past and then just barely ooches (stop autocorrecting me, not ouches, or pooches - ooches) out a teenie little advancement toward finding out what's going on with his father's engagement.
Maybe the dancing around the story is the point.
Maybe that's his gimmick to illustrate his point, which I can only guess is that life is a dance with repeating steps and changing partners??However, as a former Tennessee-an I love the Tennessee lore.
What a delightful surprise.
I found this in a used book store in Fairhope, Alabama, and was curious.
What a terrific writer Mr. Taylor is, and how I enjoyed reading about the schism between Nashville & Memphis, which I had thought I sensed when I lived in Nashville for nearly a decade in the 90's.
I confess that I often wonder if people from places other than the deep South think that all Southern writers are liars and embellishers.
Not so, at least in Peter Taylor's case, I think.
Once again I can see my Mississippi, Alabama, Louisiana, Tennessee, roots exposed.
His prose seems effortless in this first person story about a man who chose to live outside the grid of his southern upbringing, in search of the bigger world in New York City.
With an objective eye, the bookseller, Phillip, returns to Memphis to see about his ailing father at the request of his elder sisters.
A Summons to Memphis is the story of a southern family with a history.
They are transplants from Nashville to Memphis, and the disparity in these locations is laid bare from Taylor's fine eye for detail.
The title of of this book is what attracted me to it.
A Summons to Memphis left a lot of questions in my mind.
After spending a lot of time writing my own book in my head I sat down to read Peter Taylor's book.
All the excitement left me.
My personal preferences overwhelmed me and prevented me from enjoying the book I thought I would enjoy.
I thought, but the story that I would never write would have been much better.
I never found my story.
I have given up on finding it between the pages of this book.
This book won the Pulitzer Prize in 1987. The story is about how we sometimes struggle with hurt feelings from family members and try to stay together. Some situations are easier to deal with than others, but in the end we must find our peace. I give this book three stars.
This book won a Pulitzer and the Ritz-Paris Hemingway award. And it proves that I could never be a judge for those.
Similarly, I moved to Nashville from San Francisco at age 13, then after high school I lived on the East Coast through my 20's.
While I lived in Nashville for several years and made some very good friends there, I always felt a bit like an outsider.
I felt distinctly that I had not only moved from San Francisco to Nashville, but that I had moved back in time at least 30 years.
It's accurate and incredibly well done.What I did not like about this book was that it became very repetitive for me (other reviewers here have mentioned this).
I have no problem believing that wealthy Southerners in the years following the Great Depression would be consumed with issues of class and status, but I felt that Peter Taylor was just expecting me to accept this while neglecting the hard work of making it real to me through closely observed character details.
Much is made of `Southern ladies of a certain age' and the conflicting cultures of Memphis and Nashville, but I felt as though I were held at arms length from it the whole time.
Phillip Carver is summonned back to Memphis by his sisters after their father becomes romantically involved with a new partner following the death of their mother.
His cultural and temporal distance from the family allows him to observe the family with more perspective and a degree of emotional distance unavailable to the daughters and father who had remained in Memphis together in the intervening years.
The novel explores the capacity of adult children to grow to new understandings of themselves, their families, and their history with increased maturity and the changing relationships that come with the aging of parents.
I liked this slow moving, repetitive novel that recounts a family's broken relationships through the vantage of the youngest son, now almost fifty.
In the narrator's youth, the father moved the family to Memphis after a business partner's corruption became known in Nashville.
The move disrupts the family and the father proceeds to destroy the potential marriages of his two daughters and eventually that of his remaining son as well.
The novel eliminates any sympathy for the characters, but you understand them, their connection to one another, and to Memphis.
“Both my sisters always had a good deal to say about the appropriateness and inappropriateness of other people’s dress.
This may seem strange in the light of how it was they usually dressed themselves.
But somehow one felt that their own attire could not and was not intended to be taken straight.
Rather, their own attire seemed offered as a criticism of how those about them dressed.
Or so I understood it.
It seemed a kind of cruel joke between themselves and the beholder if the beholder understood them correctly.” – Taylor might be describing his own subtile (Chekovian?
