https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/880729.Divine_Horsemen
Though Deren clearly participated in a lot of vodou ceremonies over many years, the first-person pronouns are refreshingly rare, and she limits herself to talking about the religion per se rather than how she was drawn into it.The one exception to this is her account of when she was mounted by a lwa – that is to say, when she was possessed by one of the vodou deities.
Even if this were just a straightforward overview of Haitian Voudoun, it would be amazing.
Maya Deren obviously did a vast amount of research to accompany her "fieldwork" in Haiti, which included becoming an accepted member of a Haitian village.
She knows what she's talking about.
In addition to this are her incredibly intelligent observations of how Voudoun shapes each Haitian village, the differences between "primitive" and "modern" religions and how that changes its society and vice versa.
Deren's insight brings the book from being just a book about Haitian Voudoun, to a book about how religion operates in a village society.
In January 2016 I attended a Voudoun ceremony in the countryside outside of Jacmel in southern Haiti.
Alhough I was captivated by what I experienced -- the energy of the crowd, the drumbeats, the jerky movements of the "possessed" -- I couldn't make heads or tails of what was going on.
Deren's beautifully and sympathetically written ethnographic study helped me understand, in retrospect, what was happening and why.
And her descriptions of the rites honoring the loa are beautifully rendered -- the feast of Agwé is a standout.
Highly recommended reading for anyone with an interest in Haiti or ethnography in general.
Although Deren, an artist and film-maker, writes passionately and intellectually about her subject, she assumes far too much knowledge on the part of the reader.
If you already know a lot about West African religion or its New World variants, and if you want a detailed analysis in a non-standard anthropological form, then this could be a five star book for you.
On the other hand, if you want to know more about Haitian society, if you are looking for an anthropological work that will give you some operating knowledge in Haiti or about Haiti, this volume is going to prove far too rich for your blood.
Brilliant, sensitive ethnography of Haitian VouDoun gods and practices by Maya Deren, an experimental filmmaker of the 1940's and 1950's. Deren's fresh, intellectual yet non-academic treatment of VouDoun has kept me up past my bedtime all week reading about the loa, possession by gods, magic, zombies and the synthesis of African and West Indian religious beliefs and practices into modern day Hatian VouDoun. Excellent reading!!!
More than sixty years after its initial publication, Deren's study of Haitian Voudoun remains a justifiable classic of ethnographic methodology.
With unwavering respect for the reality of the religion's assertions for its practitioners, she skillfully demystifies the rituals and meanings of Voudoun - a task which, sadly, remains as necessary today as it was in 1953.
Her artistically inflected recollection of personal observation and participatory experience, informed by then-current anthropological literature, conveys the essential cosmological and metaphysical underpinnings of the practices which constitute Voudoun as a comprehensive way of life, as well as the converging historical trajectories through which those practices have come to take their current variety of forms.
Who knew voodoo could be so incredibly boring? Maybe it's Deren's writing style, which approximates that of an insecure graduate student- i found myself skipping entire pages of hemming and hawing. It is a good introduction to the subject.
This book is very well written. I enjoyed the documentary based on the book,too. I found it to be a bit too academic and a bit boring in some parts. I am struggling to finish the last few chapter as it started out good but not as good towards to the end. Don't know if I'll bother.
I've been researching cultural considerations one would take with a Haitian client in a music therapy setting, and this is a wonderful resource for Voudou concepts. Haven't read it all... but enough to get some learnin' started.
Westerners generally think of Haitian Vodou as something to fear. It's unfortunate. Haitian Vodou is a way of life that encompasses unimaginable beauty, strength, grace, faith and morality. Maya Deren generously gives the reader a window into a profound world of love, commitment and surrender.
A MUST READ: The complexity, the beauty, the depth and the incredible mystery of the Haitian voodoo revealed on more than 350 large pages.WONDERFUL!
Very scholarly, a bit dry, but in the end, interesting. I expected it to be a bit more colorful, but it's extremely anthropological.
One of the best books.
This book is faboulous because your history.
That is to say, she approaches the rituals and the people as a fully engaged human being, not under the pretense of detachment and scientific study.In the second volume of her diaries, Anais Nin writes often about the differences between herself and her fellow (mostly male) artists.
This denial of half of man's being has caused him to view the world erroneously in her opinion (and mine.)To return to the topic at hand, Ms. Deren's totally human involvement with the Haitians allowed her to write a book that is informative above all, and not at all detached.
Anyway, this book gives a real insight to a previously little known world, and it does so from an extremely peculiar point of view, as Deren became initiated to Vodun mysteries in Haiti in 1947 (a rare case of acceptance of a foreign western woman in such a community) and actively participated in dances and ceremonies, while at the same time trying understand, figure out the mythology and build a bridge that could make a seriously mystified religion such as Haitian Vodun easier to interpret and perceive, from an outer perspective, leaving out all the sensationalistic elements that characterized some other literature (i.e. The Magic Island by W.
Dense, thoughtful, and thoroughly-researched, Maya Deren's 1953 exploration of Vodou remains one of the definitive texts on the subject.
The book describes the African and American roots of a religion that is often dismissed as sensationalist "magic." It attempts to explain the complex ways that Vodou affects the Haitian worldview, describes how Vodou emerged and coalesced, and explores the ways that Haitians practice Vodou in the mid-20th century.
A pioneer of American avant-garde cinema, Deren employed both her artistic sense and knowledge of dance, theater, and narrative to this study.
This amazing classic is probably one of the best and certainly most respectful writings about Haitian Voudoun ever written.Maya Deren was a renaissance woman, the grandmother of independent film (look up her short works on YouTube - she is amazingly influential to this day)she was also an intellectual and film theorist.
She is cerebral, but subjective in her writing, speaking to what moves her about this religion.
For years I only knew of Maya Deren as a dancer-filmmaker so I was surprised when I came across this book in a Haitian-owned Voodoo/Yoruba store in Brooklyn.
It was the only book they sold which had been authored by a Westerner, so I assume that Deren's initiation into Voodoun was at least partially authentic; her accounts are definitely thorough.
As an artist, it is interesting to see how Deren--who first went to Haiti on a Guggenheim to study ritual dance--moved beyond mere primitivist aesthetic appropriation (characteristic of so many 20th century modernists) and investigated this religion as a participant.
Apparently, there are some vinyl records of Voodoo music recorded by Deren out there too..
Amazing, in depth look at the culture, belief and practice of Haitian Voudou, unique in that it comes from the perspective of an artist rather than a scientist; Maya Deren's words are not clinical as she describes what she witnessed and experienced, but designed as only an artist can to stimulate the emotions and imagination. What a beautiful book, it's one of my new favorites! I couldn't put it down!
An interesting look at Haitian Vodou beliefs. This book not only details the major lwa (spirits) and the structure of worship, but also attempts to explain the roots of Vodou belief and how Vodou continues to inform/shape Haitian culture. Definitely worth a read if you enjoy learning about religions and/or Haiti.
After seeing Jo Ann Kaplan's wonderful documentary 'Invocation: Maya Deren' at the BFI last night, I was reminded of this beautifully-written & fascinating book. I read about a third of it when writing a dissertation on Deren and had to stop myself in order to carry on with my other research - it was that gripping.
Part of my issue with this book is that it did not teach me about CNF, and we were all crabby about it in class. It reads like a dictionary of voodoo tradition, which is interesting but the style and tone of the book is DULL!
Absolutely one of the first sources to which I would direct people if they wanted to know more about Vodou. Deren's book is an excellent and detailed ethnography, and is really a must-read for any Vodouisant.
I now realize that Deren is in my lineage---possession poetics. Coupling this book with her films made for the the complete transformation between performance, ritual, and art. This book will have me focusing for some time on what it means to be in public space performing my work(s)/world(s).
This is definitely more of an academically written book so it's pretty dry. There's lots of good information but also a little dated. Things in Haiti have changed dramatically since this was written, especially due to the earthquake.
An entryway for those coming from Western belief structures to understand Haitian Voudoun. Full of drawings, pictures and charts that were helpful for me to gain access to Deren's philosophy-heavy writing.
Divine horsemen : the living gods of Haiti by Maya. Deren (1983)
Fantastic insight into a much misunderstood religion. A comprehensive and enlightening study.
Wonderful anthropological insight into voodoo in Haiti. Fascinating material from a classic text. Well worth reading if you are interested.
