https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/143523.Cement
Most Westerners familiar with Russian Lit immediately cast this book into the 'not worthy of real literature/soviet propaganda' dustbin (I suspect because their prof told them to and, I would imagine, without even reading it).
Historically it is a little like John Reed's 'Ten Days...': it captures very vividly a moment in time that is vital to understand if one wishes any insight on modern Russian History.
This is a novel that captures very beautifully not only an important moment in history but also the nascent emergence of many modern issues and practices transcending early Soviet life.
Güzel bir sosyalist gerçekçi roman.
Sovyet Devrimi'nin ilk yıllarında, bir kasabadaki çimento fabrikasını yeniden çalışır hale getirmek için verilen mücadeleleri anlatıyor.
Hem kasabadaki parti organı içinde, hem de halkla yaşanan çelişkileri Dasha ve Gleb isimli iki karakter aracılığıyla gösteriyor.
Kadın-erkek ilişkileri, yeni bir kadının yaratılması için verilen mücadele ve bunun olumlu olumsuz sonuçları Sovyet romanlarında alışık olmadığımız kadar açık bir şekilde anlatılmış.
Aydın psikolojisinin devrimci mücadeleyle düştüğü anlaşmazlığın, aydının kendini aşma çabasının ele alınış biçimi ilginçti.
Kitabın üçte ikilik bölümünden sonra kurgu biraz tavsıyor, çelişkiler karmaşık bir hal aldıkça onları ana çelişkiye bağlayan kollar gevşiyor.
Bu nedenle başlardaki heyecan ve zindelik sonlara doğru azalıyor.
I had no idea if the book was going to have a happy ending or a sad ending.
Of course that did not matter as I would have no idea what a "happy" or "sad" ending would have entailed.
(No-spoiler alert: I have literally no idea if that ending was "happy" or "sad") So in some respects the book failed to fully incorporate me into the reality.
Those deal with a war of people, but Cement?
Cement launches a war of realities.
I may have contributed to the collapse of my book club by suggesting "Cement."I became aware of the novel in university thanks to a professor of Russian history who proclaimed it "the only readable work of socialist realist fiction" (I didn't read it until years later).
But it reads much as you'd expect a socialist realist work about the reopening of a cement factory to read.As a student of Russian history, I'm glad I finally read it, and I would be interested in reading the book again if a new translation were ever offered.
Adopted officially in 1934 by the party and ratified by Stalin, this new genre “…demanded that all art must depict some aspect of man’s struggle toward socialist progress for a better life.
The story depicts the struggle of a village post-revolution to restart the cement factory in their midst, which has gone silent after the original managers were killed.
All this, the mountains, the sea, the factory, the town and the boundless distances beyond the horizon – the whole of Russia, we ourselves.
This is Workers’ Russia; this is us; the new world of which mankind has dreamed throughout the centuries.
A Red Soldier returns home from the war victorious, eager to return to his wife, 'comrades," and factory, only to find out that the Revolution is in shambles, and that the country is in famine despite food rations.
Now his wife's heart has hardened, his "comrades" no longer recognize him, and the factory is deserted, stripped bare by the starving citizens.
These few serve as examples of the ideal socialist citizen, but there are too few of them and a socialist state requires the masses to operate the machine of the socialist cause.
Reviewed here.
At least there's a bit of sex.
reading this now; so far so good
One of the best books in Proletariat literature.
بيد أن هذا كله ليس شيئاً أمام عقبات من نوع آخر، هي هنا بيت القصيد بالنسبة إلى الجانب النقدي «الذاتي» في رواية «الإسمنت»: وهذه العقبات تتمثل هنا في البيروقراطية السلطوية والحزبية المستشرية والتي، إذ كان مطلوباً منها أن تعين المشروع وتساعده، ها هي تعرقله بتطفلها وعقليتها البائدة وسيطرتها على كل مركز إداري، من طريق ولائها للحزب لا من طريق كفاءتها، ما يمكنها من شلّ كل النيات الطيبة.> في هذه الرواية التي ستكون خاتمتها حسنة على أي حال، وستشهد انتصار غليب في مشروعه، عرف الكاتب كيف يمجّد من اعتبرهم البلاشفة الطيبين العاملين لخير الوطن، موجهاً سهام نقده إلى «بلاشفة» آخرين يختبئون خلف الهرمية الحزبية لتحقيق مآربهم الخاصة.
If you read it not as a work of historical fiction, but as a work of fiction written in the past about mostly current events, it takes on a different character.
That we get to read it in English also gives it a different character, I'm sure, than one would find in its original language.At the end of this story, all I can say is that you can't really judge a book by its cover, or the translation, or necessarily from where you stand on the planet in your own headspace and time.
This book and the story it tells takes you somewhere else entirely.
Struggled to get going at the start, but later on became much more interesting!Read for SLA221.
even though it takes place in Russia during the revolution, it thoroughly depressed me that the situations described are still strangely familiar to Hungary 100 years later...
In general I am a huge fan of Russian Literature but this book just really didn't do it for me.
I can't say if it was the translation (it's the only one that I could find) or just the writing but I had a very hard time getting into this book.
There were a lot of good concepts and ideas and I think it was an interesting picture of Soviet Realism but there is still a minimum bar of writing that this book just didn't meet for me.
I was very disappointed and underwhelmed with this book.
Gladkov's Cement is as boring as creating the mixture yourself. It is a landmark novel of socialist realism in Russia. If you are interested in the concept of socialist realism, then I recommend you read this novel. Overall, you will receive a great dose of each person as a machine and the world as one big factory.
So the New Economic Policy works, thanks to the cadre leadership of dear comrades such as Gleb Chumalov. Harrah! And let's all celebrate the fourth anniversary of the revolution by restarting production at the cement factory. But the crumbling of family life and the death of poor Nyurka... oh... such human costs... so very Russian.
not sure if i'd call this propaganda. gladkov certainly has an idealized view of labor politics, but is also fairly pessimistic towards soviet bureaucracy. actually seems like the jumping-off point for people like victor serge or arthur koestler. can't argue with people who think it's boring though. like "the iron heel" or "the jungle," the politics are interesting but the plot is dry as a bone.
Definitely an interesting read for somebody interested in Russian literature, particularly that of the 20th century. It does have some merit, but the Soviet Realism genre that it is beginning is a mode of propaganda, so you have to consider that when reading. It's difficult to tease out the author's opinions, and difficult at times to see this as a novel promoting communism.
Предсталински роман за работническата класа в началото на 20-те в Русия. Чиста пропаганда. Тъжно е да се чете, но е информативно. Много ме впечатли култът към личността - Ленин ги гледа от стената, в духа на Ленин си храбър и честен... от една религия се е преминало към друга.
Interesting in the context of Soviet literature and culture, but not a book I would read for fun...although I would be interested in reading some of his other edits of the novel.
Fantastic story, slow realization of a never ending plot. Soviet Literature has a way describing everything and explaining nothing.
This book is only of academic interest as the book was written as stalinist agitprop and is bereft of any characterstics that would qualify the tome as literature.
Propaganda
Historically interesting, definitely. Not, however, a book to read for fun.
Historically significant. Atrociously written.
Not an easy read, but an interesting one.
not a good book per se, but good as an insight into official soviet culture, i.e., its ideology
3 1/2 stars
