https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/258754.Third_Factory
I remain deeply affected by Shklovsky.
This particular edition of THIRD FACTORY concludes with a brief statement by Lyn Hejinian, the "Language" writer.
She excavates the tremendous impact Shklovsky had on the early "Language" writers of the 1970s whose own experiments with sentences and paragraphs coincided with Richard Sheldon's translation of Shklovsky.
An almost objectivist (to be anachronistic) commitment to the image as communicated in a condensed utterance.
These images remain with me.
It is also useful to note that "Language" writers, most of them anti-imperialist petite bourgeois white intellectuals (of American pedigree) would cleave to Shklovsky, the anti-Bolshevik anti-Tsarist.
Shklovsky was a major literary and social critic whose ideas about literary form (Formalism) aligned him with the Futurists of the Russian avant-garde in the teens and twenties (Mayakovsky, Khlebnikov etc.) This book of essays deals with the various 'factories' which processed himself as a human being.
As always, Shklovsky's writing style is epigrammatic and pointed, funny and full of exceptional metaphor (like being the vegetables thrown away after the Soviet soup is made).
This is the kind of book that I'll pick up and just read a page to be reinspired...
Can you ever say a book like that is "read"?
"on aluminium"
In the old anecdote, one responded above all to the attractiveness of the fact, to the material, whereas in the modern anecdote we respond mainly to the structure.This conflict – or, rather, the alternation – of perception from one aspect of a work to another – can be traced easily.I have no desire to be witty.I have no desire to construct a plot.I am going to write about things and thought.To compile quotations.The time has changed course once again and the word “anecdote,” once applied to a witty story, will soon be defined in terms of the various facts being printed in the this-and-that columns of the newspapers.
A great Russian Formalist genre busting read: "Take me, third factory of life!"
Stark, formalist & advocate of Soviet Futurism. Mediations on the Factory as a metaphor for aesthetics.
Not the factories you might think, but three stages of life. I'm fine with the abandonment of plot when the results are as interesting as this combination of memoir, novel, and literary theory.
Self-indulgent and tedious, this part biography, part fiction, part poetry, part literary criticism collection isn't worth anyone's time.
"My brain is busy with the daily grind. The high point of the day is morning tea. And that is too bad: some artists shed blood and sperm. Others urinate. Net weight is all that matters to the buyer."
