https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/477990.Summer_of_Fear
That said, Duncan knows how to craft a taut tale of primal fear and unsettle the reader regardless of the era.The story is the account of Rachel Bryant, a nineteen year old troubled by a newspaper article of a family who disappeared on a hiking trip.
Rachel's dog Trickle rounds out the loving household.Set for a summer of repose, Rachel awakens to the news that her mother's sister Marge has been killed in a car accident near her Ozark Mountains home in Lost Ridge, Missouri with her husband and housekeeper.
So therefore, even though I do have to admit that Summer of Fear is well enough written and as a teenager, certainly kept me up all night reading with suspense and appreciation, I really can and will now only grant a one star ranking at best for Summer of Fear (and yes, Summer of Fear is thus also and sadly most definitely a novel that I actively regret having revisited, for what was mildly entertaining, suspenseful and readable in 1982 has now completely dissipated, and really, Lois Duncan's obvious authorial disdain for the people of the Ozark Mountains of Missouri does majorly make me cringe and rub me the wrong proverbial way).
Still freakin' scary and still one of my best 7th grade booktalks. Lois Duncan knows how to work the fear nerve!
Summer of Fear is a short, simple read that I enjoyed but that I didn't find special.
Part of the issue is that I read this as an adult rather than as a young adult, so the "fear factor" and mystery did not really hit me.
Aside from this, the book was predictable and, though I did not predict everything exactly, I definitely saw one or two things coming.
I didn't really grow connected to any of the characters, unfortunately.
Nonetheless, if you are looking for a quick read that will bring back some nostalgia, this could be a solid choice.
So what happens in this book is that what suddenly tragic just happened to the family is that Rachel's aunt and uncle just got killed in a car accident and their daughter named Julia needed to stay with a new family.
What Rachel later knows is that Julia was the one who caused all of this and is a witch who wants to marry her father and kill anything that gets in her way.
person since it is Rachel vs evil witch JULIA.
I was surprised when I found out that little sweet Julia was actually a EVIL WITCH.
Rachel is fifteen, has a great boyfriend and a great family.
At least for a little bit, until Julia showed Rachel her true colors.
The problem is, no one else seems to see the true Julia but Rachel and she's not sure how to convince anyone that her cousin is not the angel she pretends to be.
I wasn't really sure what was going to happen next and I worried for Rachel's safety.
And her family and boyfriend just annoyed me because of the fact they couldn't see what was going on.
This story is still a fun read as an adult.
Who of us didn't have some kind of fantasy like that in the midst of our misunderstood youth?However, I wish I'd realized I got an updated version.
In the updated version, they threw in cellphones here and there but still had the main character call her best friend from the house phone and return the phone to its cradle.
I don't think most major magazines operate like that anymore.
There is a major story line were the main character and her best friend go to the fabric store and pick out patterns and fabric to make their dresses for an upcoming dance.
This is a solid 3.5 star read for me.
I have no clue what all she changed but I noticed her referring to Harry Potter and cell phones to make the book more relevant.
Yes, this book has a very, unknown film that stars Linda Blair and was directed by Wes Craven.
The movie actually followed the book pretty decent.
I would've loved this book when I was at about middle-grade aged.
It was still a fun read but I didn't find it remotely scary or even suspenseful.
It was almost unpleasant to read about her though because of how awful she was.
3.5 starsIn terms of the atmosphere in the novel and the general enjoyment that I got from this story, this should probably get a bit more than 3 stars.
I am well aware that this is an oldie and that I am probably not in the target audience of this book any more, but I was a bit disappointed by it.
I found it way to simple and a bit too predictable, but I did enjoy reading it, aside from that jerk of a love interest and Rae's parents, who had no problem calling their own daughter a witch, pointing out her faults in comparison to her cousin and not protesting when people her brothers called her a bitch in front of everyone.
Reread for the umpteenth time. This book is so. freaking. good.
She's close to her parents, has a couple of pretty nice brothers named Peter and Bobby, a friendly dog, a fun best friend named Carolyn and a wonderful boyfriend named Mike.
Like, I would hope that if I said 'hey mom and dad, my cousin definitely stole my boyfriend', they would say 'well that's really awful of her, maybe we should all talk about this' instead of 'well boys fall in and out of love so fast and it's not Julia's fault that she's so pretty'.
This book was very...meh for me. It was interesting, though predictable. I truly hated that it was revisited in 2011 to include frivolous details to make it more timely. I think I would have appreciated the book more if the author just let the story simmer in that 1970s time period. Throwing in cell phones and Harry Potter didn't make me enjoy or relate to the book more- it just annoyed me. I also felt that the ending (or maybe it was just the "resolution?") was very anticlimactic. It was a quick read, and I'm kind of glad about that.
Summer of Fear  was written in 1976 for young adults and has won several book awards: California Young Reader Medal for Vermont Young Readers Award, Vermont Young Readers Award and the New Mexico Young Readers Award. I chose to read this book for my "Lifetime of Books" challenge. If I hadn't had that challenge, I'm certain I never would've read this book. That being said, it was an entertaining read. I borrowed the audio version from the library and, although the narrator's voice didn't fit, IM
If I hadn't had that challenge, I'm certain I never would've read this book.
I borrowed the audio version from the library and, although the narrator's voice didn't fit, IMO, the book was easy to listen to.Rachel is a 17 year old girl living with her two brothers and her parents in Albuquerque, NM.
She's dating the boy next door and ready to enjoy the summer.
But, one day the family receives devastating news, Rachel's aunt and uncle have been killed in a car crash leaving her cousin, Julia all alone.
It was interesting reading a story that was written 34 years ago.
The book Summer if Fear by Louis Duncan, in my eyes was one of the best books that I had ever read.
The book is about a teenager named Rachel who had been looking forward to summer all year an when it finally arrives is overjoyed.
When the girl arrived nothing was out of the normal and everything was fine, but then weird things started to occur an Rachel knew that her cousin Julia was the cause.
This book was amazing in every way and I would recommend it to anyone looking to read a good book
This was a reread for me.I read all of Lois Duncan's books as a teenager. This is a good mystery chiller, very much written in the style of the vintage gothic romance...switched identities, murder, witchcraft.It's an excellent YA read, but also just generally is a good, quick book.You can find a full review later this week on my YA Horror Review blog:http://yahorrorrevisited.blogspot.com/
Not sure why I am being so nostalgic today....but this book randomly came to mind today.Anyway- this was one of my favorite reads as a young teen. Maybe I will also give this one a re-read in the future.
A damn solid book that has plenty of great jaw dropping moments. You feel the main characters frustration and it’s not a difficult task to put yourself into the main characters shoes, despite the occasional fantasy moments.
It was awfully predictable and not at all that scary, perhaps the original 1976 version would have been better. This version was rather boring :/
Rachael enjoys a loving, close-knit family (including two brothers), a best friend, and a dog named Trickle.
First, her southern accent inexplicably comes and goes and then Trickle, who had always been a gentle dog, takes a strong dislike to Julie to the point of biting her which results in his banishment from the house.As Julie becomes more outgoing, Rachael draws into herself straining her relationships with her family, her best friend, and even her boyfriend Mike, who takes more than a liking to Julie.
thin she divorced that Julie practiced black magic and wanted to take everything away from Rachel and wanted too kill her parents but at the end they catch her and everything was finally over.
I think this book is person vs person because is Rachael fighting with her cosine Julie that ends up being a witch.
i give it this rate because it had all i really like in a book fear suspension and creepy events.
This book us full of surprises and creepy event if you like these type of books i would really recommend u to read this.
I mean, it isn't too fundamentally different from Duncan's other books, which I typically enjoy.It was boring.Our main character is typical American teenager Rachel, who's living the good life.
Strange things begin to happen, and Julia slowly begins to take away Rachel's friends, boyfriends, and family love for herself.It's a sound concept, but I didn't particularly like the way it was written.
Julia would do something like cozy up to Rachel's boyfriend.
Again, she wasn't bad or offensive - just very boring.In fact, I found the character of Julia to be way more interesting, particularly the twist at the end.
I wasn't aware when I checked it out that Summer of Fear was part of a rerelease of a number of Duncan's books, with edits for the modern reader.
I don't think these edits are a bad idea, as I do feel that casual reader teens have a hard time really getting into the setting of a book with landlines and roller skates.
In this case, however, the edits didn't mesh seamlessly, and they felt incomplete.
Rachel has a great teenage girl-movie life, until a tragedy brings her cousin (who she's never met) to live with them.
After Rachel's aunt and uncle die in a car accident, her orphaned cousin, Julia, comes to live with the family.
It reminded me of that scene in the Blair Witch Project where Josh (or was it Mike?) was yelling at Heather and repeating "There's no one here to help you!"That was probably the creepiest part of this book, actually, watching this really close family falling apart and seeing Rachel try to figure out what was going on with no help.
seeing someone else live our life and doing it better and us not even being missed?
Fifteen-year-old Rachel’s life gets turned upside down when her orphaned 17-year-old cousin, Julia, from the Ozarks moves in with them when her parents are killed in a car accident.
Not only does Rachel have to share her bedroom with her unfamiliar cousin, but Julia quickly wins over Rachel’s brothers and parents who are entranced by her charming ways.
Julia’s bewitching ways, which cause Rachel to become an outcast in her family, only make Rachel more distrustful as she begins to uncover clues that Julia may not be who everyone thinks she is.
All of Lois Duncan's suspense novels that I've read have been fun, entertaining, and thrilling, and this one, in which orphaned cousin Julia comes to live with Rachel and her family after Julia's parents have been killed in a fiery car crash, is no exception.
Bad things start happening soon after she moves in, and it soon becomes apparent that there's something not quite right about Julia, to put it mildly.The book I read is the revised, updated version.
Sure, they added a supernatural aspect to it, but my hypothesis was still the same and I was right on all counts.
Did teenagers really talk like that back then?
Some bit of unscripted film footage that I could look at and finally know for sure if people from the 60's really did talk like that?
I would really like to know.Yeah, these books are fun if you just want something short to read and you can finish them really quickly before forgetting all about it and start on something completely different.I'm thinking of it as a kind of mind-sorbet.
Rachael's cousin Julia is going to be living with her family.
Julia's parents died in a car accident and Rachael's parents took her in.
At first, Rachael likes Julia but as the story goes on, Rachael starts to become suspicious.
Julia has "stolen" Rachael's best friend, her boyfriend, and her bedroom.
Rachael then discovers that this Julia was not her real cousin.
I think that this book is good, and it's for people who like mystery books.
i think that i can connect to Rachael a bit because sometimes there is someone out there that is ruining my life.
I remember our 6th grade teacher reading this TO us in elementary school.
When does THAT happen anymore?
Anyway, it was surprising for me to learn that this same author wrote the more well-known "I know what you did last summer".
But that's beside the point.A CREEPY thriller, and one that (in retrospect) I can't believe our teacher read to us.
Very adult themes in some places, but definitely touted as Juvenile fiction.
I re-read it a few years ago and was surprised to find it retained a lot of its creepiness.
Oh, and creepy.
Oh, and creepy.


