https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/452220.Die_Physiker
Imagine the despair when they realise that they are trapped in a system running like a fine-tuned machine to the tune of the Pied Piper, relying on human rats to follow the powerful psychopath and to turn the notions of good and evil, sane and insane, right and wrong, true and false, knowledge and belief into their complete opposites.Dürrenmatt wrote an inventive masterpiece of universal impact, signalling to the world that civilisation is but a thin layer of polish, and that the bullying power of ruthless narcissists will almost always be a step ahead of reflective thinking and responsible behaviour.
Macavity’s Not ThereIn T.S. Eliot’s poem, Macavity: The Mystery Cat, the protagonist is an accomplished feline criminal who causes havoc and confusion but is always is out of sight when the sheriff arrives: “...
when a crime’s discovered, Macavity’s not there.” In Durrenmatt’s play, Macavity is there, in a Swiss asylum, but he disappears into a psychotic mind, or rather three such minds, of the men identified as Newton, Einstein, and Möbius.
Newton only pretends to be Newton; he is really, he believes, Einstein.
The pretence is a courtesy to the one who believes he’s Einstein.
The fact is, there's nothing more scandalous than a miracle in the realm of science. Three of history's greatest physicists meet in a drawing-room: Newton, Einstein and Möbius. Newton has a bottle of cognac hidden in the fireplace. Einstein has just strangled a woman to death. And Möbius is being visited by the ghost of King Solomon, who is telling him the secrets of a Unified Field Theory.Except the drawing-room belongs to a Swiss insane asylum, and the three men are patients.What follows is a
Three of history's greatest physicists meet in a drawing-room: Newton, Einstein and Möbius.
And Möbius is being visited by the ghost of King Solomon, who is telling him the secrets of a Unified Field Theory.Except the drawing-room belongs to a Swiss insane asylum, and the three men are patients.What follows is a playful mash-up of a country-house murder-mystery with a scientific drama-of-ideas.
It was less than 20 years since the real Einstein had famously said that if he'd known what the results of nuclear research would be, he would have become a watchmaker.
It’s an absurd comedy, until it is no longer funny, of course, with a very moving conclusion, addressing the ethical dilemma that arises when politicians gain access to scientific knowledge that has the potential to destroy the world.
I am poor King Solomon.”So Möbius admits that it was mistaking scientific knowledge for wisdom that ultimately destroyed his kingdom.I was in a production of The Physicists at Calvin College in Fall of 1971, when I was a freshman Thespian, with the amazing Thomas Bloom as Herr Möbius.
Drei Physiker in einer Irrenanstalt, offensichtlich schizophren, begehen Morde an ihren Krankenschwestern, und die Polizei lässt sich von der resoluten Anstaltsleiterin einreden, dass die armen Patienten nicht für diese Unglücksfälle verantwortlich gemacht werden können.
Die drei Physiker wirken weltentrückt und verrückt, so dass man sich gar nicht vorstellen mag, wie das absurde Theater endet.
Das Stück entstand im Zeichen des Kalten Kriegs und noch unter dem Eindruck des erstmaligen Einsatz einer Atombombe 16 Jahre zuvor.
Wie verändert sich die Rolle der Wissenschaft in den letzten 200 Jahre?
Das Stück hat nichts an Aktualität verloren und mich sehr begeistert.

Ένα εκπληκτικό θεατρικό για τις ηθικές υποχρεώσεις του επιστήμονα, τις στάσεις και τις πράξεις του, και κατά πόσο το έργο του ανήκει τον ίδιο ή στην ανθρωπότητα, καθώς και τι μπορεί να κάνει για να το προστατεύσει...Εκπληκτική έκδοση, με εισαγωγή και επίμετρο από τη Μάρθα Κουτσιούμπα - Παιονίδη που ανεβάζει το θεατρικό έργο επίπεδο με τις παρατηρήσεις της. Στα συν του βιβλίου οι φωτογραφίες από τη θεατρική παράσταση του 1962. Μακάρι με αφορμή την έκδοση αυτή το θεατρικό να ξανανεβεί σε κάποια θεατρική σκηνή, καθώς ο χαρακτήρας του είναι άκρως διαχρονικός!
Ein unglaublich tolles Werk, das mich sehr überrascht hat.
'Die Physiker' ist eine Komödie mit einigen Konflikten, einigen Wendungen, die sehr überraschten und die ich ganz, ganz toll fand.
Ich habe zusätzlich das Hörbuch auf Youtube gehört, das von jemandem privat eingesprochen wurde, indem er jedem Charakter eine eigene Stimme verlieh, was unglaublich professionell und ansprechend gemacht war.
Das Hörbuch machte somit unglaublich viel Spaß und ich kam mir zeitweise beinahe vor wie im Theater.
Super Geschichte, toll umgesetzt, mit viel Charakter und Können!
Colui che ha appena ammazzato si crede Einstein, lo ha preceduto poco tempo prima chi reputa se stesso Newton e che ora, impunito in virtù della sua pazzia, è in scena col commissario; lo intrattiene argomentando sulla sua sanità mentale e asserendo di essere in realtà lui il vero Einstein e di fingersi Newton per non recare dispiacere al compagno.
Inizialmente appare come molto assennato e capace di comprendere le intenzioni della ex moglie ma al momento del congedo usa le sue eccezionali doti di fingersi pazzo- quelle che gli hanno permesso sì lunga dimora in manicomio- e ritorna nelle sue vesti permettendo con lo strappo generato dal comportamento pazzoide, un congedo più facile ai suoi.
This is powerful, always contemporary. I was in a production of it at Calvin College in Fall of 1975, with the amazing Thomas Bloom as the The Physicist. I was a Freshman, first play on the big stage, and was the Second Policeman, I think, no lines, just stand on stage for twenty minutes talking to Tim Talen... I was overwhelmed by the play, the production, moved to tears every night. I thought this was an important message to the world, I thought theater was a terrific vehicle for saying it. Still do.
I consider The Physicists, together with  The Visit , to be one of Friedrich Dürrenmatt’s undisputed masterpieces. A police inspector investigates the murder of nurse who has been found strangled at a sanatorium. The murderer is known, he is one of three patients at the institution who all believe themselves to be great physicists. In his case, he thinks he is Einstein. It is the second murder of a nurse in three months, the first having been committed by the patient who thinks himself to be New
The murderer is known, he is one of three patients at the institution who all believe themselves to be great physicists.
It is the second murder of a nurse in three months, the first having been committed by the patient who thinks himself to be Newton.
The questions he poses lead both to a resolution of the plot and to lingering impressions for the reader.
What happens when those we consider insane are actually the most sane and vice versa?If those questions intrigue you, then so will The Physicists.
21 points about Dürrenmatt:1.Dürrenmatt was a genius.2.Dürrenmatt was absolutely nuts.3.This is nuts.4.This is genius.5.I don't think I'll ever get this.6. No one can ever get Dürrenmatt.7.My name is Kepler.8.No, wait, I'm Marie Curie.9.But I know I am Kepler!10.I know even more that I am Marie Curie!11.I must be Marie Curie.12.Correction: I am James Bond.13.Fuck, I'm nuts.14.Fuck, this is nuts.15.Fuck, I need to read more of Dürrenmatt.16.42.17.I am still Kepler.18.I am also Marie Curie.19.I am the Big Sister and I rule the world.20.Fuck, I'm so nuts.21.We are all nuts.(No, I don't get my review either.)
This classic on the great ethical debate that followed the American bombings of Nagasaki and Hiroshima in 1945 is tremendous fun.
The question examined is what is the proper course for a scientist who has learned something that is highly dangerous for life on this planet.As an intellectual issue we have become somewhat tired of the dangers of nuclear physics.
Thanks to Kim Jong Un however we cannot forget that in mundane terms the matter is still quite serious.Fortunately Durrenmatt's contribution to the debate is light-hearted and quite funny on paper.
If I get a chance to see it performed I fully intend to.
From BBC Radio 3 - Drama on 3:Samantha Bond stars as a psychiatrist in this classic European farce by Friedrich Dürrenmatt about three theoretical physicists who believe they are Einstein, Newton and Möbius.
The Physicists was first performed in 1962 at the height of the Cold War.The serious subject behind the farce is what to do with the knowledge of weapons of mass destruction once let out of the genie's bottle.
Who controls that knowledge?
Can scientists remain free, even in the free world?The music soundtrack is from Bernard Herrmann's less well known score to Fahrenheit 451.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b01pyfr9
Wir haben "Die Physiker" damals im Deutschunterricht lang und breit diskutiert. Ich habe das Stück damals schon geliebt und werde es wohl immer wieder mit Vergnügen lesen.
I've read this book in school, not expecting much of it - but i was totally surprised.The story of "Die Physiker" deals with three physicists, who live in a sanatorium for the mentally ill.
"Die Physiker" is a play, which teaches us a lesson about the responsibility of science.I do have to mention that I am really not a fan of reading plays.
You read them with such a emotionless thought, not really thinking about the setting, the look of the characters etc.
But this just is my very personal opinion, which shouldn't hold you off from reading the story.Because in spite of that I really liked the book.
This was extremely clever! The plot twists were awesome, and I was NOT expecting any of them! Good, and crazy, fun!
Ein herrlicher "Imbiss" für zwischendrin. Manchmal mag ich es, wenn mich Bücher verwirren. Und ich liebe Dürrenmatts herrlichen Humor."Nur im Irrenhaus sind wir noch frei. Nur im Irrenhaus dürfen wir noch denken."
Reread in April 2017
3.5
Wie immer vermag Herr Dürrenmatt die Gesellschaftskritik schön zu "verpacken", diesmal in einem gelungenem Kombi von Kriminalfall, Drama und Komödie.
On the other hand, writers like Dürrenmatt put the blame on scientific and technological progress, economic competitiveness, and general hubris, and wished for a return to simplicity or old-time religion (the last words in this play are given to King Solomon, saying, "when I no longer feared God, my wisdom destroyed my wealth").
Although a review like this is a poor place to expound my own views, let me just say that an atomic bomb is by no means necessary for the extinction of the human race, all that's needed is a stone axe, fire, or a large herd of goats.
The edition of The Physicists that I read was translated by James Kirkup.Friedrich Durrenmatt’s The Physicists is a delightful and sometimes silly play filled with intrigue, science, and murder, all leading up to an incredible plot twist that will leave your heart hammering and head swimming from the page-turning, gut-wrenching dialogue.
As an example of Durrenmatt's ability to concisely sum up an entire ethical argument, he writes:"NEWTON: Is it because I strangled the nurse that you want to arrest me, or because it was I who paved the way for the atomic bomb?"In one line, we are confronted with the huge ethical question of the role of the scientist in the outcome of their discoveries.
Absolutely terrific first act, which portrays three men in an asylum, each claiming to be a brilliant physicist.
The second act, though, is something else entirely.
Where the first act was macabre and absurd, the second seems intent on providing detailed explanations (which sends the delicious oddity out the window), and tailspins into a diatribe against modern technology (particularly, but not exclusively, nuclear weapons) which is horribly dated now, but seems like it must have been heavy-handed and dull even in the original.
Alas; I'd love to see the first act on stage, but I've no idea what I'd do with the second.
The lunatic inhabitants or the head of hospital?یکی از کارهای برجسته ی دورنمات است.
هستند و خود را به دیوانگی زده اند تا از شر کشفیات و اختراعات خود و خطر آن برای بشریت، در امان بمانند.
رییس تیمارستان، خانم دکتری معیوب است که اتفاقن تنها بیمار روانی این تیمارستان است.
این اوست که شادمانه نتیجه ی کشفیات این دانشمندان را می دزدد و به نام خود در جهان می پراکند و افتخاراتی را که فیزیکدان ها از ان در هراس اند، با کمال میل برای خود می خرد.
این نمایش نامه توسط رضا کرم رضایی ترجمه شده و توسط خود او به روی صحنه آمده است.
riveting - and fairly short (76 pages) - discussion on the importance and danger of knowledge. really liked one bit where the cycle had come full circle and the "physicists", at the pinnacle of human knowledge as far as they knew, compared themselves to animals in their ability to destroy the world.
We had to read this book in school, and it's actually one of the few books that I really, really, really liked. I read it in a single day, because it was so thrilling and totally not like the usual books one has to read for school. And I don't think it's just because it's about Physicists. ;)
Das ist das erste Buch, was wir im Unterricht lesen mussten, was mir wirklich gefallen hat! Auch jetzt noch, lese ich es gerne und setzte mich mit meiner besten Freundin hin und spreche die Rollen! Es macht wirklich Spaß :)
Unterhaltsam, klug, überraschend ... bisschen altbacken ... aber, und das ist ja das eigentlich erstaunliche, es geht gar nicht so viel um Physik, dass man Angst haben müsste.
Incredible, unpredictable and funny book with a deep message for the world.
