https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/904375.Eternity_in_Their_Hearts
It was not.The author continues his attempts to prove his theory that God has left redemptive analogies in most, if not all, remote people groups.
I accept his theory in principle, although I'm not sure that there will be useful analogies in every cultural group.
This book is more of a general summary proving redemptive analogies with a short overview of each story.
It almost feels like he is trying to 'flesh-out' the book to make it a full length novel.Instead of keeping his focus on contemporary mission and people groups, the author returns to the stories in the Bible.
Prin toate acestea, autorul arata cum Dumnezeu s'a revelat acestor popoare pagine in diverse moduri, pregatind astfel calea crestinilor misionari carora le'a fost mult mai usor sa il prezinte pe Dumnezeul-Logos care s'a intrupat.Unul din obiceiurile care pe mine personal m'a fascinat a fost cel al poporului Asmat din Noua Guinee, vinatori de capete si canibali, care isi dezumanizau femeile fortindu'le sa participe la practicile de vinzare publica a propriilor soti si isi cinsteau rudele moarte folosindu'se de diferite parti din trupurile moarte ale acestora.
What a wonderful act of God! This book explains the providential wisdom our Heavenly Father displayed by preparing the Gospel for certain tribes and peoples in extraordinary ways. For example, a tribe in Asia had been waiting for a certain Holy book from their God that would show them the way to Heaven. When missionaries came, with the Bible, these people readily and happily embraced the Salvation through Jesus Christ, and countless thousands were saved! Every Christian ought to read this. It is such a inspiration!
Very interesting book on the spread of the gospel from the old testament up to today.
Richardson listed different peoples, nations, that at one time were monotheistic and then went into polytheism at later times because of Satan's influence.
He mentions that many nations only worshipped one god at one time.
The Chinese, before Buddha worshipped only one God. They had a written language (or characters).
When the Bible was translated into Chinese, there was no problem using the character they had for God as meaning one God. By the way the Cantonese and Mandarin characters are the same even though their speaking language is way different.
This was an excellent counterpoint to Joseph Campbell's 'the Power of Myth.'As we are created in the image of God, each of us carries a divine spark and a memory of the eternal. No matter how far one can wander, we recognize the essential truth, and it's carried from generation to generation, transcending cultures and societies, by way of myth.I find that absolutely thrilling!
Fascinating. I am very much in favor of social sciences as apologetics. I think there is a relatively untapped well of insight to be found by observing people and their ways, that points to the existence and need for a Supreme and Good God.
Shows the many threads of the story of the kingdom of God. One of my favorite books.
I read this when I was much younger than now... I remember tears flowing down my face as I caught a glimpse of God's "big-ness". I have my students read this, it's mandatory.
Don Richardson's Eternity in their Hearts plays an important role in my bookshelf - it, along with a handful of CS Lewis' works, the primary bridge between the "Christian" shelf and the "Cultural Studies, Anthropology, and Anthropology" shelf.Its premise is that, within the fabric of each of the world's cultures are embedded threads -clues in the form of stories and traditions - that point the way to the Gospel message.
If a missionary is senstive to such stories and traditions, it becomes easier for him or her to communicate the good news of Jesus Christ in a way that is deeply understood by peoples hearing it for the first time.You can imagine how this would be controversial.Imagine if a people reached by the gospel message for the first time believed in, say, a creator deity.
For instance, the ancient Greeks experienced a destructive plague in the 6th century B.C. and after sacrificing to every god in the pantheon experienced no relief.
The men of Athens sent for a priest from Cyprus who told the men the only deity who possessed power to abate the plague was a god unknown to them.
Needless to say, the men did what the priest asked and sacrificed to this "unknown god" and the plague ceased.
Now you probably know where this story is going if you've read Acts 17.
The author, a missionary and missiologist, shares his research of how God has left evidence of Himself throughout so many different cultures of the world -- often preparing these peoples for Christians to come to them and share with them the good news.
“These tribesmen think you may be a certain 'white brother' whom they as a people have been expecting from time immemorial!”“How curious,” replied the foreign diplomat.
“Ask them what this 'white brother' is supposed to do when he arrives.”The guide replied, “He's supposed to bring them a book just like one their forefathers lost long ago.” They are asking with bated breath, “Hasn't he brought it?”“Ho!
Fascinating, faith-building, and perspective-challenging! The first half is saturated with examples of how the Lord has revealed Himself to all people, and the second half effectively demonstrates how God's purpose throughout Scripture and throughout history has been to draw all people unto Himself. It encouraged me in sharing the Gospel, to see how God has indeed places eternity in the hearts of men; and it challenged me to share the Gospel - to all people - realizing afresh the importance that the Lord places on blessing all nations through His Son.
This is one of the key formational books for my outlook to how other religions should be viewed by Christians. I encourage everyone to read it.
God is at work through the centuries, preparing peoples and nations to know him. This book brings this out VERY clearly, a good read for anyone interested in God and history.
I wish I'd had the time to read it more slowly.
There were some parts where I suspect the author took creative freedom or speculation and portrayed things as more set-in-stone than they are.
However, as a whole, it seemed Biblically accurate despite that, and it gave me a lot to ponder.
Despite it not telling his story, this was story driven still.
One thing I appreciated the most about this was the undeniable enthusiasm the author has for his message.
And while I'm still digesting it, I hope to go back and check things against the Bible more thoroughly someday.
Acoording to Don Richardson (1935) former missionary and author of books like Peace Child (1975) and Lords of the Earth (2003) God’s general revelation (see Ps. 19:1-4; Rom. 1:19-21; 2:14-15) is not an effete, inconsequential, inert bystander watching from the sidelines as God accomplishes everything related to redemption via special revelation alone.
Canaanites (calling the Lord of Lords El, El Elyon), the remarkable story of priest Melchizedek blessing Abraham and Abraham’s reaction (Genesis 14, Hebrews 7), Incas (Viracocha), Indian tribes (Thakur Jiu), Africans (Sheit’an, Koro), Chinese and Koreans (Shang Ti, Hananim) and tens of other examples bearing witness to a genuine God that’s not idolized, has a son and reveals himself through a book.In Part Two Richardson describes the various ways the Gospel is prepared for the world.
Richardson, a longtime missionary in Papua New Guinea, makes the case that many cultures display so-called "redemptive analogies," truths hidden within the myths and legends of their traditions and religions that point to the gospel of Christ.
He cautions, rightly, that missionaries must be extremely careful not to misuse traditions in a way that would lead people to conclude that the gospel is simply an addition to their religion and not a complete change from it.Richardson also emphasizes the centrality of the Abrahamic covenant in both the Old and New Testament.
Yes, this effort looks at 'startling evidence of belief in the one true God in cultures throughout the world', but certainly not in hundreds of cultures.
I went into this book thinking it would largely be made up of evidences for the one true God in hundreds of cultures, but I was wrong.
And that's okay.I recommend this book to those who already believe in the one true God and wish to explore the evidences for Him in many of the world's cultures.
I also recommend this book to people who don't believe.
"Startling evidence of belief in the one true God in hundreds of cultures throughout the world," is what Don Richardson's book claims to be.
Too bad he doesn't expound on them, and seems to only select stories where "white" missionaries are the heroes or messengers of the "Sky God."The second half of the book is extraordinarily tedious to read.
Thank God I'm finished with that.I did enjoy most of the stories he told in the beginning of the book, and found the monotheistic nature of those beliefs to be fascinating.
This book was an overall good read, but the author writes about some pretty heady stuff, making frequent references back to many different verses in the Bible that make it sometimes difficult to follow, and often bogs down under the weight of having so much of it crammed into certain sections of chapters.
My perspective of "general" revelation has forever been changed in a positive way and given me a different view on the early church and missions.So, though it may be difficult to get through certain sections, it is definitely a must read because of the subject matter.
So neat to read how God has prepared several people groups all over the world to hear the gospel.
The author shows how several people groups had in their ancient folklore a knowledge of a one supreme creator who cannot be made an idol and is completely righteous.
The historic record shows a move away from monotheism, where many evolutionist ( now discredited) still believe that monotheism was an upward progression away from animism, pantheism, polytheism etc.
The author ties this in to how all people/nations will be blessed through Abraham's seed.
This book, carefully documented, is the account of dozens of incredible cases of peoples untouched by the West and Christianity who, whether buried deep within their own religious myths and culture, or by some other way, knew about the God of Heaven as told in the Bible, and sometimes were even waiting for their own copy to arrive!Thias is a living testament to Romans Chapter 1.
Evidence exists that the Judeo-Christian God reveals Himself to all mankind...enough to surprise missionaries who arrived to tie up some loose ends later on.
This book is fun and once you start will be difficult tio put down.
Richardson, long time mis'y in Irian Jaya (author of Peace Child) develops further his hypothesis that God left in ancient peoples a way of knowing God thru general revelation, the ‘Melchizedek factor,’ or thru special revelation, the ‘Abraham factor.’ Some rejected what they knew, the 'Sodom factor,' and were rightly judged.
I’ve wanted to read this for some time, and am glad to have found it at our friend’s house.
I would recommend this to be included in study programs like Biblical Theology of Missions and Perspectives.
It would be a good exercise to answer the study questions.
This is a fascinating book.
It raised new questions about how God has worked in history apart from Israel to save sinners.
Richardson doesn't really address that question--but he does demonstrate how God has prepared many people groups to hear the good news about Jesus Christ.
Many peoples have anticipated the Christian gospel and received the news about Christ with joy, because God had left a witness with them over the centuries.I don't agree with some of his theology, and some of his arguments seem stretched.
But the first half of the book is remarkable because it is a message that few have proclaimed.
If a book ever needed an editor it was this one. Some of the data is fascinating, but the hundreds- no lie- of exclamation points coupled with occasionally insulting phrasing when discussing other cultures has made this book almost impossible for me to get through.I'm going to keep on plugging along because the data is worth keeping, but the overall writing quality is so poor I'm almost afraid to recommend this book to anyone for fear they'll think I approve of this sort of thing.Good God. I don't.
A fascinating book. Don Richardson is a veteran missionary with amazing stories (in other books) about what he has seen God do in unreached tribes. This book brings together his expertise in the field of missions. He points to patterns in the religions of people groups around the world and relates those patterns to Scripture. Christians will gain a vital perspective on the purposes of God throughout history -- drawing the nations to Himself. Anyone (even unbelievers) with the remotest interest in anthropology will find this a gripping book.
This has been on my to read shelf for far too long. On chapter two and it is rocking my world view! I need to completely revamp how I teach comparative mythology. If you have thought about reading this and have not, get it immediately! If you have never heard of it, GET IT. No friend of Jesus should go another day without reminding it.
I read this while studying with Wycliffe Bible Translators. Richardson weaves together a string of amazing stories into a coherent whole that examines the common thread that runs through ancient cultures--the belief in a Creator who reveals himself. Especially interesting where the stories of the people of the lost book.
MUST READ!! Amazing how God prepared the Gospel message in the hearts of people in far away places, and then prepared his servants to communicate the message.Interesting to read about different cultures and how they interact.
So far this book has been rivetting. In the past I started reading it a few times, or only read the chapter about the people groups of Northern Thailand, but this time I decided to give it a full read, and I am not disappointed- I was even reading it to Mike in the car!! Very encouraging.
