https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153785.Page
Although she is not on probation anymore, she still has to prove herself to her training master, teachers, peers and the king himself, seeing that unfortunately women do not become knights in Keladry’s world, with the Lioness as the only exception so far.
It’s still an essential sequel, seeing that Keladry learns what it means to be a girl and care for someone other than herself, but not one to which I could give the initial high rating I believed it would deserve.
And she succeeds brilliantly in doing so.In Page, Tamora Pierce gets back to the very essence of storytelling - a young hero must prove herself in the face of seeming unbeatable odds to achieve her goal.
Tamora's characters pursue their dreams with strength and grim determination, and in doing so, make us believe that we too can achieve our dreams if we stick by them.I read Tamora's books as a child and found myself unable to put them down, and even a decade later I get the same thrill as her characters fall in love, escape from danger, or rush into battle.
Oh these books, every time I read them it's like visiting a best friend.
I adore Kel today as much as I did when these books were first published; I will forever be grateful to Tamora Pierce for creating this fantastic heroine because "bless [her], [she is] real." Kel doesn't have the Gift or any wild magic to help her.
I reread these books ALL THE TIME because I need that.
I need to know that I can crawl out of the mud and be my own hero - no magic required.
In fact, I really like Roald, and I wish he'd been in Kel's books more.
There's a comment later, when the pages confront Joren and Co. for making life a misery at Midwinter, that says he's every bit as stubborn as his famous parents, and I just wish we'd gotten to see that more.
Side note: When Imrah of Legann chooses Roald to be his squire (breaking with tradition, blah blah - do we think Jon told Imrah he wanted to do things differently?
And does Roald wear Legann colors?(VERY IMPORTANT SIDE NOTE: Gary gives Kel a note to bring to the king atop Balor's Needle, even though it could wait until morning.
At the end, when (view spoiler)[she has to save Lalasa and Jump from the tower instead of taking her exams, I totally expected Wyldon to be like "you already passed your exams by proving you are an awesome knight who rescues people in need!" But that would have been too easy.
And I loved Owen introducing Lalasa later as someone who "is good at sewing and knows a lot of ways to hurt you."I'm still convinced that Alanna is behind the anonymous gifts Kel continues to get, and I'm having a lot of fun imagining George's network of spies reporting back to him about how Kel is doing.NEXT BOOK PLEASE.
And in this book, Kel shows that she really thinks those below her should be treated with respect.-Lalasa.
Neal is a personal favorite of mine, but I also like Merrick, Wyldon, and Daine when she makes her little appearances throughout the series.
They add some humor to the series, and they all shape Kel and help her grow as a person.
I also love Neal and Kel’s relationship with one another—despite the age difference, they’re like best friends, and it seemed only natural that Kel would develop feelings for him eventually.-The ending.
It continues with many of the same themes as the first book, but expands to touch on subjects outside of focusing solely the Pages' training.
We continue to see Keladry in a fighter and protector role, not only for herself, but for those who cannot fight as well.
Here is where we really start to see why this series is the Protector of the Small quartet.Keladry also continues to grow in her Page skills, learning strategy and facing down her fears as often as she can.
Here is another book that I love too much to really review, and since I'm trying to save all my reminiscing about how important this series has been to me for the third book, I'm going to keep this short, with just a few of the things I loved about this entry:- Kel's friends, and particularly Neal.
From page 13 of the trade paperback: "Neal had taught Kel to know the palace the year before, assisting her with classwork and cheering her worst moods with his tart humor.
In return she tried to keep him out of trouble and made him eat his vegetables."- Lalasa, Kel's maid and a new addition to the cast.
From page 126: "To his cousins Owen said, 'That's Lalasa, Kel's maid.
5 Perfect Stars Again!!!Even more amazing follow up to the first in series. I've already fangirl'd really hard so if if you are interest in this series this is the review to read: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show.... I don't have the heart to do another GIF/quote-ladden review so just trust me, if you loved the first Kel book the second only gets better.
But I like being a girl.Keladry of Mindelan is the strong, tough girl who doesn't shun typical feminine things and supports girls who are different to her that you need in your life. Just trust me. You want to read Tamora Pierce's books if it's fun, moving, feminist YA and middle grade fantasy. This is the 11th book I've read by her and I just love her so much.
Kel was always my favourite, having been the first set of books I read by Tamora Pierce, but rereading this series for the 3rd time (I think?), I'm just in love with everything!The characters, the writing, the plot...the funny banter between the pages and the squires.
He's such a romantic and I love that about him cause it's totally the opposite of who Kel is (and who I am).
Her backstory is just so sad, but I'm so glad she's found a friend in Kel!I think that's all I'm going to say cause I don't want to spoil anything!
It's no secret that Keladry of Mindelan is one of my all-time favorite fictional characters, nor is it a secret that I reread these books almost every year (sometimes more).
All I can say is this: whenever I think I can pick a favorite book of this series, I am proved wrong when I start rereading; there is not a single chapter in this series that I dislike.Page has long been a favorite, and remains so after this most recent re-read.
More than even that, though, this book reminds me WHY I can't pick a favorite Kel novel, and that's down to the characters.
I really love Kel. Lalasa and Tianine should have been gay though tbh.
Good story line! I quite liked Owen! Lord Wyldon finally admits that Kel has proved him wrong!
This one was even better! She has more friends, the challenges are different, she makes a female friend, she starts experiencing all kinds of ~lady~ things. Seriously, I love this series. I love that Kel's goal is to be a knight that defends the weak/small - she doesn't even just defend, she *teaches* others how to defend themselves. So good. Would recommend to all!
I'm really enjoying rereading these.
I love seeing more of the schooling Kell gets. I am so fascinated by this series. Also Kell's reactions to becoming a "lady" were perfect, I laughed so hard. I loved seeing her determination again. Kell doesn't take shit from anyone, and doesn't let others feel sorry for things that aren't their fault. I loved the addition of Lelasa. She and Kell became such great friends and I absolutely loved how they complemented and support each other. (view spoiler)[ WHY HAVEN'T ALANNA AND KELL MET? I NEEDED THIS TO HAPPEN LIKE YESTERDAY I AM MAD  (hide spoiler)]
She isn't a warrior; she is shy, meek and soft-spoken maid who loves to sew, but she is still a great character, because you don't need to be a kick-ass fighter to be a good person.I love Tortall books, and I love ‘Protector of the Small’ series, but there is a problem I’m having with them.
However, In the Hand of the Goddess, the second book of Alanna's series, had a war and a plot to overthrow the king, and ‘Page’ has no serious plot except for Kel proving herself again and again… what is something she had already done in ‘The First Test’.
From the beginning, Pierce continues to show how different the experiences of Alanna and Kel are.
Experiences as a page are also described very differently from those Alanna experienced.
It's obvious that Pierce spent a lot of time and effort researching these training techniques.
Plus, the story has changed a bit to focus more of the experience of being a page.
As with many other books Pierce has written, three years pass within these pages.
Her entire third year is more or less passed over in a few short pages.
I can't wait to see how Kel manages as a Squire.
Kel grows on you, even if she is a portmanteau mashup hybrid thing of Daine and Alanna.
I suppose this means that will be formally settled in later books.Also, the dramatic irony of Kel's rampant ignorance in even guessing that Alanna could be sending her gifts is thin and not at all a source of tension or even interest at this point.
I wish there had been more on how Alanna is receiving information about Kel, rather than how expensive and beautiful her gifts are.
(Yes, I'm going through my and my roommates' bookshelves for things I haven't yet read and a lot of that is Young Adult fiction.
Lalasa's extreme fearfulness might border on the edge of frustrating for me as a reader (as it does for Kel), but who am I kidding, if I lived in fantasy land I would be just like her, minus the impressive sewing skills.
And I really love the way that Kel's hatred of bullying manifests itself as a particular hatred of sexual harassment/assault - unfortunately it is a very timely theme.
In particular, I like that Kel's strategy is to insist on teaching Lalasa to defend herself, rather than just swooping in to rescue her as needed (not that there isn't a fair amount of swooping as well).
This and my other reviews can be found at http://amethystbookwyrm.blogspot.co.uk/In Page, Kelladry has passed her first year in probation and still has to complete 3 more years of page training to become a squire.
She also has to contend with the conservative squires, who wish her to leave.I like how Kelladry has matured in this book.
You also get to meet a few new characters, and older characters get developed, with Neal falling in love with everyone female.Even though this is a good novel, I found that the pacing of this book was uneven, there were places where you were feeling rushed, and then places where the pace dragged.
I would highly recommend this book to young (especially female) people in middle school.
The pace of this novel picks up significantly, covering the completion of Keladry's training as a page, and her development from childhood into adolescence.
I wish I'd had this book during the confusion of my own pre-teen years, as it deals with the common traumas of puberty with honesty and compassion.
Instead, Page focuses on the invisible growth of one girl's courage and grit ...characteristics she will no doubt need in the very near future.
1/25/15 buddy re-read with RachelAll of the stars. Perfection in all ways. Complex, lovable characters; detailed, believable world-building; suspenseful action scenes and climax; hilarious writing inducing real, actual LOLing; kickassiest kickass themes of kickassery.The only thing - and it's a tiny, stupid thing - is that Kel is still too mature for her age at the beginning. In particular, her crush. She's eleven/twelve, she hasn't been socialized for this type of behavior, and it does not seem natural to her character. But this hardly matters, considering everything else this book is.
Page and Squire, the next book in this series, are my two favorite books in the Tortall universe. This one because, once again, of Kel and her solidarity--her friendship with Neal, her new friend Owen, the gentleness and consideration she shows her new maid. And yes, the anonymous gift at the end still makes me cry. (update, Nov. 2016: this is the second time I've read this book this year and it remains one of the best books I've ever had the delight to re-read.)
My love for Neal grows and grows. Kel's a bit annoying at times, but then I have to keep reminding myself of her age.
(hide spoiler)] My hats off to you Kel because FUCK THAT SHIT - I WOULD DIE.The ending did frustrate me a little, but that was purely because I really wanted to know (view spoiler)[a) who was behind the kidnapping of Lalasa and Jump, b) I wanted more info on her final test before becoming a squire and c) I wanted to know who Kel became squired to (hide spoiler)] but those are pretty minor frustrations in the long run XDPretty happy with this book overall - Tamora Pierce can REALLY write a believable and relatable heroine.
Really liked this second Kel book. It felt sliiiightly like a filler book in that not a lot of significance happened but was still fun to read. Really looking forward to Squire. Having to wait for these to come in as ILLO is killing me a little bit!
Sudden fast forward, and we go through 3 years of time, but so fun!
The training continues to be tough, but she has an established network of friends now, and takes on a servant at the beginning of the book.
Lalasa is interesting as she seems determined to stay as inoffensive as possible, but later shows that Kel has had a real effect on her.Compared to the Alanna quartet, this book comes off very well, as it feels like a complete book, instead of a mere 'part two' that In the Hand of the Goddess did.
Both Alanna and Kel are good characters that I enjoy reading about, but so far this series is a bit better structured.
