https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61049.Autobiography_of_Red
Oh, you should read this book. It's smart and sweet and tender and original. It's erotic, but just under your skin. It's a novel in verse, but don't let that deter you. You can pick it up off the shelf and settle into a big armchair in the bookstore and read the whole thing for free in an hour (even relishing and re-reading parts). But then you'll probably want to buy it anyway so that you can take it home and sleep with it under your pillow for the rest of your life.
We are neighbors of fire.And now time is rushing towards themwhere they stand side by side with arms touching, immortality on their faces, night at their back.Geryon is a little boy and he goes to his mother.
Geryon saves the voices his mother makes when she reads to him.
I wanted him to stay in that kitchen with his mother but he couldn't.
He would use her as something of his own, like a secret, when he wants to invite in.
I wouldn't want to be in love with Herakles.
Autobiography of Red was my Christmas miracle when Geryon is okay without Herakles.
Seldom have I seen a writer so maximize the balance between raw, grated, difficult, emotional pain and beautiful words that make me want to clutch them to my bosom and squeeze them with delight while making burbling noises of pleasure.
I read this book when I was about twenty, and it was the greatest thing that I'd ever read.
And no, it didn't do to me what it did the first time that I read it, and it no longer seems light years greater than any other book in human history.
I wish it weren't cliche to say that Anne Carson is a goddess.
Anne Carson is a goddess, and were I ever to build a temple or sacrifice mammals it would be to her.

It was taking him a very long whileto set up the camera. Enormous pools of a moment kept opening around his handseach time he tried to move them. Every so often my education comes in handy when I am confronted by a piece that does not seize me by the heart and wring it till I weep like it has apparently done for most everyone else. One could say peer pressure, or one could admit to capitalism and how a measure of discipline is needed in analyzing any work that is mandated, regardless of persona
for, albeit I dislike necessitating the swallowing of the same old canon for a work that should stand on its own, albeit there's many a confabulation of myth and written and blasphemy tickling my brain that I would so like to pin down to the count, albeit what the hell am I doing in the major of English if I want to forgo more reading for reading's sake, so.
Sometimes the internal to-and-fro works like these provoke is worth the cost of purely academic parsing alone.What have you written that could strike you blind?
One of those books that everyone else loves and I just did not get, oops.
Autobiography of Red has so many things I find relatable and should have liked more: a main character who experienced abuse in his childhood, a queer love story, and a plot that features the importance of art.
Unfortunately this novel in verse did not resonate with me.
I wanted more character development and a more substantial plot.
Perhaps I do not "get" poetry or I have been spoiled by my favorite gay novels, including 
. Even though I did not love this one I am glad others did.
Why, then, am I committed to this high-wire act, this emotional binge, when the reward is only scars made wounds again? (P. West)Questing after truth and beauty, Carson takes us on a journey into the depths of a red, volcano-lit night, where tenderness and pain become one and love is sustainable only in half-blurred memories of the old days. Embracing the impermeable shadows of this little masterpiece, we bathe in its unbalancing brilliance and capitulate in awe to the glory of the soul-stirring words — not touching but joined in astonishment as two cuts lie parallel in the same flesh.
The good ones count among some of the best works of written words - give them life by giving them more time than they need.
This is a beautiful book, short story, poem, that deserves that extra time and extra effort.
All of this is important in this poem, short story, novel, but you must figure out why on your own.I don't cry why I read, because I'm a man and I think that means I can only cry in shower or something like that.
It is captured in one word - which those who have read the poem, short story, novel will recall.Degrading.Good lord that word has so much weight.
Upon rereading, from 4 stars to 5. I was either a bad reader when I first read this or just not in the right place. In any case, Carson is a master and I don't think I could live without her now.“Then he met Herakles and the kingdoms of his life all shifted down a few notches. / They were two superior eels / at the bottom of the tank and they recognized each other like italics.”
And it's the one of only two books I've re-read several times (Great Expectations being the other.)There are some clever metafictional framing sections which come at the material from historical and literary angles, but the central section, the heart of the book, is the story, the novel in verse.
"Verse" in Anne Carson isn't strident metrical regularity or forced rhyme, but merely prose that fine tuned and broken into lines.
The story is a retelling of the myth of Hercules and Geryon, the red monster who he kills in one of his labours, as a modern gay romance.
Autobiography of Red by Anne Carson is that kind of book.A retelling of the story of Geryon, a red-winged monster who has a short but painful affair with Heracles that reverberates through his life.What struck me was Geryon's unending effort to make art out of his life-first through writing, even as a child before he could actually write, and then as a photographer.
Geryon's life is painful but he constantly searches to give it meaning, to find meaning in the world around him.The poetry is powerful and the story disturbing.
Anne Carson is good at many things: making a good turn of phrase (someone "falls out of the room like an olive off a plate"), good at weaving themes in and out of a narrative (her theme is good too: stories erode.
This is may be a pomo pseudo-pseudo myth, but the moments described are so intimate and private she manages to escape the depersonalization that many myths entail.She has given long narrative verse a shot in the arm, that's for sure--I can't think of many instances where an author has so willfully chosen a "difficult" medium and successfully made it so approachable.
A truly unique poetic experience. An important milestone for the verse novel. An idiosyncratic, fantastic (in the purest sense of the word) tale that explores the most important issues of our society from a somewhat comedic and surreal perspective. One of the great classics of Canadian poetry.
if you no like this book, i no like you
This was surprisingly engaging, emotional, and compulsively plot-driven. I've found other Carson texts occasionally too knotty and the first 20 pages made it seem like this was more of the same. But the importance of the set-up soon becomes clear and gives way to a poetically charged and compelling coming-of-age story that seamlessly mixes modern life with Greek legend. There are lots of wonderful reviews for this, so the only thing I'll add is that if you've been hesitating DON'T BE DAUNTED. Take the first 20 pages on faith and you'll be rewarded immediately thereafter.
I'm reminded of Michael Ondaatje's book of poetry,  The Collected Works of Billy the Kid . The book is a "verse novel" that loosely follows the exploits of Billy the Kid under the pretext that he is the author (though Ondaatje frequently deviates). There are aspects of this in Autobiography of Red (as you may have gathered from the title).The idea, a classic story from another perspective, is more reminiscent of John Gardner's Grendel (Beowulf from the perspective of the monster). The same appro
. The book is a "verse novel" that loosely follows the exploits of Billy the Kid under the pretext that he is the author (though Ondaatje frequently deviates).
There are aspects of this in Autobiography of Red (as you may have gathered from the title).The idea, a classic story from another perspective, is more reminiscent of John Gardner's Grendel (Beowulf from the perspective of the monster).
I say "uncanny" because the author retains a classical form (like 
Something else I liked about the form, the verse portion of the novel (that is the "Autobiography of Red") is established with a fake introduction and appendix.
Jako čudno, ali u potpuno pozitivnom smislu.
Priča o osetljivim, ličnim temama, o identitetu i ljubavi, o umetnosti i odrastanju i kako smrt tj.
Dovoljno je reći kako se radi o malom crvenom dečaku, a posle mladiću, koji ima krila i koji je neraskidivno povezan sa vulkanima.Možda je ono po čemu se na prvi pogled ovaj roman (ili jedna duga pesma) ističe je struktura: roman u stihu.
Ali meni se iskreno više čini da je to svojevrsno opravdanje za lepršavost teksta i izostanak bilo kakve čvrste forme.
Značaj teksta je često sakriven, ali jednom kada se pronadje, u pitanju je nešto posebno.5
"Lo ami?" Gerione ci pensò su. ”Nei sogni sì”.Libro stupefacente: un po’ romanzo e un po’ poema, un po’ rivisitazione non convenzionale di un antico mito greco e un po’ romanzo di formazione. È anche una storia d’amore (un amore infelice? un amore sbagliato?) tenera e commovente, sensuale e profonda. Gerione, il protagonista, è indimenticabile."Che aspetto ha la distanza?" è una semplice domanda diretta. Spazia da un interminabile interno fino al limitaredi ciò che può essere amato.
The awe I felt while reading was lessened due to this, which makes me very sad as this is a beautiful and heartwrenching book.
Geryon is one of the most fascinating characters I have ever read.
He saw the world unlike anyone else in the book.
This is one of those books I want to buy to have on my shelves so I can periodically take it down and again read one of the many beautiful or startling lines Carson wrote.
I hope to read more of her work soon.
Every page was exquisite and I can only describe my feelings that emoted while reading this book as paper-thin alabaster porcelain.
It may be hard to grasp this tactile description, but the best way to put it is: bone-hard-butterfly-delicate.
Maybe glass heart would be the best description.
I'm pessimistic and fuck the water in the glass; I don't care how many angels can dance on the head of a freaking pin, but this book of verse touched me.
I like that a book can do that.
…quest’idea che ti esplodano i polmonise non riesci a raggiungere la superficie…i polmoni non esplodono piuttosto diciamo che senza ossigeno franano lo so da Virgina Woolfcon cui una volta ho parlato a una festa non ovviamentedi annegare visto che ancora non ci pensava…te l’ho già raccontata questa storia?Ricordo che il cielo dietro di lei era vermigliolei venne verso di me dicendo: Perché se ne sta tutta sola in questo enorme giardino vacuocome un pezzo di elettricità?
Me l’aveva regalato Freud ma questa è un’altra storia.Davvero signora?Finì annegato non Freud il cagnolino e Freud fece una battuta che non era affatto divertenteaveva a che fare con il transfert incompleto non riescoa ricordarmi le parole in tedesco il clima tedesco invece quello me lo ricordo benissimo.Com’era il clima tedesco signora?Freddo e con la luna.
This hybrid novel / epic poem is one of my favorites.
It wreaked havoc on my life, mostly in a good way.Based on the Greek myth of Herakles (Hercules for all you Romans), it recasts Geryon, the slayed, sheepherding red-winged monster, as a protagonist who also takes form as a gay, socially-marginalized school boy.
From the monster's perspective, a story unfolds that is at once disturbing, coruscating, and beautiful.
The way Carson shapes verse awes me, you want to touch her craft, know its contours like a welder's wrought iron.
Autobiography of Red is an epic without the endless description and patronymics. And that only makes it better. Anne Carson is a literary genius. Her syntax is remarkable and her purpose is never clear. Those are two reasons I loved this, but there are many others. Read it. You will feel strange, but undoubtedly you will learn something from this. I don't know what you'll learn, nor do I know what I learned. Judge it for yourself.
Formally very beautiful, delivers all the pleasures (celerity, compression, wit) I associate with "A Novel in Verse." But I found the story (assuming it can be considered apart from form) wan and Geryon vaguely annoying. Looking forward to Plainwater.
It's not often that a book of poems makes my heart pound. I started reading it before bed on Sunday night. I was EXCITED TO WAKE UP ON MONDAY MORNING because I couldn't wait to get on the subway and continue reading it. On a Monday. Morning. Enough said?
Strange, and lovely. Funny and sad. a wonderful book I will certainly read again.
I approached this book ready to feel cowed and lost, so I was enthralled when that was not the case.I understand Geryon intimately, for I, too am a red creature.From a forgotten notebook of mine: "On my steady diet of nicotine and coffee, my thoughts grind (like bad teeth) into points.
Did you know longing was red?
And heartbreak, as we all can't help but know, is red like thunder.
The book opens with a short, informal "essay", which functions as a way of contextualizing the main narrative in the mythological/historical framework of Stesichoros' writing.
And while reading this essay, I grew worried that the "novel in verse" was going to be another fragmented postmodern reference-fest; the essay evokes a snarky sense of humor, drops a Baudrillard quote, and talks about how "words bounce" and "float", all within the first three or four pages.
As I slowly got a grasp on Carson's shrouded sense of humor and keen eye for pacing and setting, I started to enjoy the book immensely.
Carson turns his monstrosity into all that is both beautiful and difficult about being a creative and desiring person.The main part of the book is the story of a romance between Geryon and Herakles (In Greek mythology Herakles' tenth labor was to kill the monster Geryon.
Carson provides enough context in her introductory sections for the reader to see what she is doing with the Greek sources.) I've seen Carson's Geryon referred to as "gay," which I guess is literally true, but I wouldn't call this a novel about a gay relationship.
