https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40409718-post-office
Okay, I can already hear the “booooos” from the Mitchellites saying “how can you give Cloud Atlas two stars, but you give THIS four stars?” I will tell you how.
(Just be careful not to touch anything, you don't know where it's been).I enjoyed the fact that as I read the book, I didn’t feel like I was really reading.
I felt like Bukowski was telling me a story.
Some people might refer to his style as “conversational,” others, “raw.” To me, his writing was simple, like the everyman telling his tale.
You know what else I like about Bukowski?
is it just me, or does reading bukowski make you want to listen to tom waits, too?
finished post office last night and this morning listened to small change on the train.
It's nice work if you can get it, now who the hell said it?
I got money to spend on my gal, But the work never stops, and I'll be busting my chops Working for Joe and Sal. And I can't wait to get off work and see my baby, She said she'd leave the porch light on for me.
Bukowski was once an idol of mine.
I've since grown up.
He took himself too seriously (while pretending that he didn't).
And he was practically talentless.
He had spunk and a surprising ("surprising" because of all the booze) work ethic but an ultimately boring sense of humor.
His words are like what Hemingway would have thrown away.
Bukowski was America's greatest one-trick pony.
He might have had only half a trick, like that uncle of ours who used to steal our noses.
After a while, it's not even worth trying to get your nose back.
You just want your uncle to pass out so he'll stop bothering you.
Why is reading Bukowski so much more enjoyable when you're drinking?
Easy: because everything's more enjoyable when you're drinking.Still, for however much the man's life and writing was informed by the bottle, it was informed by a lot of other things as well, and working for the U.S. Postal Service from the early 1950s to the late 1960s was one of them.
This is the book where Bukowski explains how he fell into his career as mail carrier (and later mail clerk), why he stuck with the job for as long as he did, and everything that eventually forced him to quit."It began as a mistake," he tells us at the outset.
Not Much Pride; So Much PrejudiceWhen I was a child my siblings and I played a game we called Opposites.
So in that spirit: What’s the opposite of Jane Austen’s Pride and Prejudice?
Obviously Charles Bukowski’s Post Office.There is nothing in the least civilised, much less refined, in Bukowski’s protagonist, Henry Chinaski.
Hey, it’s a life.Chinaski has clear priorities.
Courage comes from the belly—all else is desperation.” And despite, possibly because of, his limited horizons, Chinaski is not desperate.
Resignation to one’s circumstances can indeed be a spiritual blessing.Happiness is a simple matter, even if it’s just beyond his reach: “By god, I thought, I'm going to make it!

مثلا این مورد  he got his little playbag and the rubber wraparound for the arm and he squeezed the ball and the rubber inflatedمترجم در خیلی از قسمت‌ها اصلا متوجه نشده که داستان از چه قراره و بخاطر این کج‌فهمی، در ترجمه‌ی دیالوگ‌ها دچار مشکل شده و در پنج، شش مورد کلا دیالوگ‌ها رو تغییر داده، به طوری که من در ابتدا فکر کردم شاید دارم نسخه‌ی اشتباهی از کتاب رو به جای نسخه اصلی می‌خونمبا این شرایط ممیزی، بخاطر سانسور نمی‌شه از مترجم‌ها آنچنان خرده گرفت و خب نوشته‌های بوکوفسکی هم که بنظر من اصلا قابل ترجمه نیستند، ولی در این کتاب با پدیده‌ای متفاوت از سانسور روبرو هستیم، پاراگراف پاراگراف متنی که بدون دلیل حذف شده، لغاتی که به سلیقه ی مترجم وارد متن شده و معنی و مفهوم بطور کل تغییر کرده.
"It began as a mistake." No writer has written about the hoodlums, the lowlifes, the lost souls, the unemployed, the castaways etc etc more beautifully than Bukowski. He hasn't pitied them, like Dickens would. He hasn't detested them either. He has made us live their lives: talk their talk, walk their walk.The charm of this book lies in the relentless attachment of Chinaski to the US Postal Service, as he puts in thankless hours on the trot in pursuit of a life drowned in alcohol, cigarettes, r
He has made us live their lives: talk their talk, walk their walk.The charm of this book lies in the relentless attachment of Chinaski to the US Postal Service, as he puts in thankless hours on the trot in pursuit of a life drowned in alcohol, cigarettes, race-horses and (obviously) women.BackgroundThe novel is a semi-autobiographical account of Bukowski's years working as a carrier and sorter for the United States Postal Service, the novel is "dedicated to nobody".
After a brief hiatus, in which he supported himself by gambling at horse races, he returned to the post office to work as a sorter.
Get yourself your favorite drink and let's get crackin'.Gender preference: IrrelevantMotivation: The romantic tension that comes with meeting a strange lady in a bar will potentially crowd out any other thoughts in my mind, effectively reducing my conversational skills and potential for philosophical questing, but if she doesn't mind me just paying for her drinks and hearing her out and not have any of the romantic stuff happen that's fine by me.
And personal anecdotes to add color and context to the BarBud. I want to know where he works, where he sleeps, his favorite swearwords used to coat around his soft nature.
My first affair with Bukowski.
I found this book while substitute teaching a group of tranquil 12th graders.
I picked up the book, began reading, and couldn't believe that this book was allowed in a classroom.
Luckily the students had no interest whatsoever in the book, so I had it all to my evil self.
The book is hilarious.
I read it in an afternoon.
I became that crazy person in a coffee shop cackling over her book.
He is a fucked up womanizer, but I still love it.
Plus, Bukowski's use of capitalization is genius.
I know he's fucked up, but I love him so.
Another masterpiece of feminism in American Literature. Jay kay!Oh, nah. The daily tale of the proletariat is fully disclosed here in such a disarming & shocking manner. The protagonist is one alcoholic, misogynistic mess! And I love him for it, & perhaps now C. Bukowski, too.
He tells his story after waking up from a terrible drinking spree.During one christmas season, after hearing from a drunk that the Post Office would hire "damned near anybody to deliver the mail", Hank applies and is successful at securing a delivery job as a temp.
I swear I had this image of Hank when I was reading Post Office!!!!The novel sheds light on Bukowski's life during the period from 1952 and until he resigned from his job at the post office in 1955, before returning to his position in 1958, where he continued to work until 1969.
Charles Bukowski's first novel presenting roughly the last fifteen years before his 50th birthday.
He will have spent 12 years living this hellish job at the post office, horse racing, alcohol and women.
Women he meets rather seriously, two or three long and many relationships, but still an unconditional love for the drink.
And when he describes his work, one can understand why he sinks so easily into alcohol and needs women to clear his head.This autobiography is written in a familiar register perfectly corresponding to what it means.
A very good novel without dead time.I don't know about you, but that does not make you want to be a postman...
كنت أود البداية مع أول أعماله الروائية (مكتب البريد : حسب علمي) لكن وجدت بين يدي (هوليود) وتجاوزت صفحاته الأولى أثناء لحظة إنتظار في المستشفى فلم أستطيع قطعه وقراءة "مكتبب البريد" الذي كنت قد نويت البداية به لكنني عرفت أن رواياته تمثل بطريقةٍ ما سيرته الذاتية فتوقفت مرغمًا عليّ أتلمس جمالًا سأندم لو أكتشفت معرفتي لمراحل تسبق تطورها في أعماله السردية، فبدأت بهذا النص، وندمت أن مثل هذا المبدع كان مؤجل كل هذه الفترة.يجوز تسمية بوكوفسكي = بو كو"ويسكي" رائحة الخمر والسكر تجاوز بها حتى (جورج أمادو) وشرابه الشهير "الكشاسا" الذي تجده لا يفارق شخصياته الروائية.
What do you get when you mix two cases of beer, chronic gambling, and a vulgar, "Fuck this world and fuck you if you live in it" attitude?Probably not a very nice person.
Reading "Post Office" isn't just an entertaining romp into the mind of a tortured genius drunk shithead (it is); it's also an excellent resource for figuring out why modern writers have such stupid literary style (it all started with you, Bukowski).So, next time you wake up and you feel like fucking pounding a case of Schlitz right after you beat the shit out of your cute ass toy poodle, read "Post Office" and get motivation to sit on your ass, complain about your job, shit on the opposite sex, and really, really, really fucking appreciate the finer delicacies of life.Because life is amazing, you just gotta punch the shit out of it sometimes.
It is all somewhat detached; his daughter is "the girl", even though he knew "as long as I could see the girl I would be all right", but such detachment is necessary for him to survive his lifestyle, especially the times when he is hurt.Amorality Redeemed by HumourDespite his general lack of moral compass or consideration of such matters, and the dreadful way he treats some women, it is a compellingly written story, with a wonderful irreverent wit than won me over, rather as an indulgent adult overlooks the worst excesses of a naughty child.
And then I did." Wonderful bathos.When job hunting, "The first place smelled like work, so I took the second" and much of the humour comes from work, especially satirising the bureaucracy of the post office supervisors and colleagues who are variously incompetent, sadistic and playing the system.
One of the reviews read: "Cunning, relentlessly jokey and sad".
Funny is clean, it makes you feel good, like it'll all work out in the end.
So I agree this book isn't funny, there are no thought through jokes, they were never meant to be written down on paper and told in a microphone for a well-dressed crowd, the world simply shoved situations in his face and he decided to laugh.
Jokey indeed, and well done, Bukowski has you laughing with him.
وابن ال**** يسميه ابن ال****!هذا النوع من الصدق يمكن أن تكون إحدى تبعاته عدم رضا المتلقي وامتعاضه من الكاتب وما يكتب، ولكن يبقى لهذا الصدق حلاوته وطعمه الغريب الذي لم نعتده من كثير من الكتاب، وبالذات كتابنا العرب الذين تعودوا تغليف الحقائق بورق سوليفان لتتناسب والمكانة الاجتماعية المرموقة للكاتب، فما بالك عندما يكون الموضوع سيرة ذاتية كهذا الكتاب!في "مكتب البريد" ينسف بوكوفسكي الحدود بين الأشكال والأجناس الأدبية، بحيث يمكن اعتبار هذا العمل روايةً وسيرة ذاتية في آن واحد، فهو يروي سيرته الذاتية عندما كان موظفًا في مكتب البريد لأكثر من عشرة أعوام قبل أن يتخذ قرارًا بالإستقالة والتفرغ للكتابة، أي أنه يمزج بين الواقعي والتخييلي.
And it's boring.
Sometimes some guy will come up with a new way of writing about his dick, your Ulysses or Gravity's Rainbow, or someone's particularly good at writing about his dick, like Philip Roth or Bukowski, and everybody's like, ta-dah!
New horizons in dick literature!
How guys feel about their dicks, and what guys would like to do with their dicks, and whether guys' dicks are any good, and it's all so boring.
I'm not part of any movement here, I'm not trying to make some political point, I'm just saying you guys gotta shut up about your dicks.
It's fuckin' boring.
يقول بوكوفسكي إن 93% من رواياته هي أحداث حقيقية تنقل سيرته الذاتية، و 7% المتبقية كانت لتحسين صورتها.
مكتب البريد هي أول أعمال الكاتب التي بدأها ونشرها بعد تركه العمل في البريد بعد اثنى عشر عامًا، تفرغ لكتابتها تحت إعالة الناشر له ماديًا.
بوكوفسكي يكتب بصدق وتلقائية دون تزيين الأحداث، ولعل هذا ما يجعله قريبًا لقلب قارئه العادي، وصادمًا للقارئ الكيوت.
Both books have lots of women, booze, and gambling, but in Post Office there are places of real regret and sorrow, and a little joy.
There’s more humor, genuinely funny spot-on meditations/anecdotes about the absurdities of working at the post office, that anyone who has ever worked a shitty job can relate to; there’s a divorce, there’s the death of Betty, his old girlfriend, who visits him before she dies:“I met Betty on the street.
Post Office is pretty funny at times, wincingly funny, and very entertainingly written.
Screw, shit, Six-pack, and Post office.

It's nice to know your moves.”This is Charles Bukowski’s life philosophy and according to it, he depicts his life…“The streets were full of insane and dull people.
There was one guy who wouldn't let you put the mail in his box.”Post Office is laden with subtly rude but precise observations of everyday life.“I had come to the racetrack after the other two funerals and had won.
A funeral a day and I'd be rich.”I quite admire Charles Bukowski’s dark and desperate humour and his ability to turn cynicism into literature.‘Take it as it comes’ was his ultimate truth.
Post Office is an account of one man's struggle with regular employment.
Henry Chinaski is a heavy drinker, gambler and philanderer.
His actions are often crass and immoral, and his behaviour gets quite sketchy at times, but despite all this, it's hard not to identify and sympathise with him.
For the reader, there is a guilty sense of vicarious liberation that comes from living in his shoes.
But Post Office is not an entirely frivolous affair.
Henry is in many ways a sad and lonely figure, and his story is filled with moments of deep melancholy.
His story is outrageous, yet authentic.
The cover said: "One of the funniest novels ever written." The little Joe Pesci on my shoulder kept chiming in, "Funny how?...I mean funny like I'm a clown, I amuse you?
(I could smell him through the picture.) The story starts out following a drunk scumbag who is of no benefit to society (other than purchasing from liquor stores.) This scumbag gets a job in gov't service, complains that the bosses make him, like, actually work (geez, don't they know he's hung over, they're harshing his mellow!) he quits the job for no obvious reason, but--this is key to the critics--he learns no lesson, and forgets that he hates it, and goes back to the job.
I found that film moving and Bukowski to be someone endearing --a misfit and self-hating artist--who set out to do for writing and poetry what the punk rockers did -- bring it back “to the people.” This then is a proletariat novel of sorts, about “the working class.” But it’s also very funny in its bluntness and admirable in its honesty.
And that seems to be Bukowski’s gift -- his raw honesty.The story is about the drudgery of being a working stiff.
And the book has a quasi-documentary feel.POST OFFICE by Charles Bukowski is a great book.
عمل بوكوفسكي موظفا للبريد لفترة 12 عاما عمله كان شاقا ويبدو كأعمال السخرة ولعل نوعية هذا العمل جعلته واسع الإطلاع على أنواع البشر ناهيك عن طفولته الشقية بسبب الأساليب العنيفة التي كان يستخدمها والده تجاهه وتجاه والدته وأخوته وكيف كان يحرمهم من متع الحياة الصغيرة مما ترك مرارة الحياة في فمه منذ سنين طفولته الأولى ، إلا إنه اللافت للنظر كم أراد بوكوفسكي أن يظهر كيف يستهلك الإنسان حياته في دوامة من العمل الذي لا يحبه من أجل أن يعيش وكيف يمضي العمر بالإنسان دون أن يشعر إنه ضاع في عمل تافه !على الرغم من لجوء بوكوفسكي إلى اللغة المبتذلة والصارخة جدا إلا إنني أرى أن هذا العمل من الأعمال البارعة جدا عمل بارع لرجل لم يستطع أن يجتاز الاختبار النفسي لأداء الخدمة العسكرية ، رجل لم يكن يترك زجاجة الخمر من بين يديه رجل عاش للنساء والقمار ومع كل ذلك فهو شاعر وأديب ساخر ببراعة ..
This is what makes Henry Chinaski's story very addictive to read.
It's also its weakness because we are never privy to the inner consciousness of Chinaski.
His first wife leaves him and he just accepts it.
His second leaves him and he just accepts it.
The rest of it— a moral compass, likability, vulagrity—doesn't matter; in fact, it's what makes Chinaski digestible, the flawed hero.
Only, these stand-out moments are not strong enough to delve the reader into the inner workings of Chinaski.
After reading Women first, and now Post Office, I do want to know what makes Chinaski tick.
At certain places in the book, I took this simply as his own fantasy of how he saw or wanted to see himself.
He loves two things more than anything, booze and women.Hank starts as a post service substitute carrier, a sub mailman.
His shackjob, and ironically, the love of his life, Betty, gets a job then and starts supporting the two of them.
Naturally, Betty dumps him.Lucky Hank ends up with a wealthy nymphomaniac called Joyce, who later decides that the two should get married.
This book, I think, comes close to being a satirical take on nine-to-five jobs, and the pointless drudgery these jobs often entail.

