https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102956.Preacher_Volume_5
It's a no doubter that this is foul, blasphemous and brutally violent...However, it's equally doubt free that this is powerfully evocative, brilliantly original and darkly humorous...It's 100% sans doubt that this is a kudo-worthy masterpiece of American pop literature...So please put your hands together and give it up for......PREACHER I’ve read a veritable parking lot full of comics/graphic novels and consider myself some+what of an aficionado of the genre. I’ve also read several pounds short
I mention this only so that when I back the praise truck up and dump a load of warm, moist awesome on the unique genius of the Preacher series by Garth Ennis, I am doing so not simply in relation to other graphic novels but to the full-color spectrum of everything I’ve previously read.
Thus, despite all of the blasphemous content leaking through the narrative, it is hard not to feel like you are in good hands with Jesse riding point.
Anyway, in sum, the Preacher series is AS GOOD AS IT GETS.
This is a 3* as in good, rather than a fuck-you 3*I bought this for myself as a Christmas present and I've enjoyed reading it.
The artwork is good, the characterisation and dialogue excellent, the story ...
Book one really grabbed hold of me, it was fresh, exciting, unpredictable, I didn't know what I had hold of and I liked it.
I might put that money down gambling on finding something as good as #1 from some new talent...I should add that I've now watched the first season of the Preacher TV show and I really liked it.
Just gets better and better.  This series is definitely not for everyone, but for those who like offensive, violent, whacked shizz, this is the best. Lots of good stuff happening in this one. It starts out with Cassidy blowing down the highway, when suddenly sirens are behind him and he's about to get pulled over. He yells out to the cops who have pulled up beside him:"Hey! Sheriff! I f***ed yer wife last night!"(Sheriff fires his weapon at Cassidy and takes off half the back of his head.)Cassi
They are pasty humans who cut themselves and drink each others blood, mimicking the vampire lifestyle.
But things don’t exactly turn out the way you’d think and Arseface finds a new career.Custer gets some answers by seeking out a voodoo practitioner who contacts the Genesis demon/angel hybrid inside him.This comic is very irreverent and, some would say, even “blasphemous” in ways.
Starr shows up, has declared himself the new Allfather, and is still out to get Custer.
Meanwhile, he’s trying on wigs and hats to hide the huge scar Jesse gave him in Vol. 3 that makes his bald head look like a gigantic penis.
Ahhh Assface, what a delightfully understated comic/tragic character.
To say that I'm invested in all these wonderful and wacky characters is a bit of an understatement, too.
Gotta love it.So yeah, we're moving out of the backstory stage and back onto the main quest, mainly, to hunt down god and make him answer for all his dastardly deeds, but first, let's get away from being a man of god, screw psychoanalysis, and go find some shrooms and dance with indians...
Okay, screw that too, let's get VOODOO on this here head-shrinkery.
:)Oh, yeah, and Cassidy's past comes to bite him in the ass.
The key to finding him and other info is locked in the Genesis entity that inhabits Jesse’s skull, and Cassidy has the bright idea to go see a voodoo priest he knows to see if they can do some kind of possession ritual to shake some tidbits loose.
It’s not all grim though as Herr Starr gets to try on some hats.But then they do that voodoo ritual and Jesse gets a big snake wrapped around him, and ….
I've been putting off doing this review for like a week but here goes, probably just going to be a lot of pictures ngl.
Anyway, it's nice to be back on track after the complete and utter pointlessness of volume 4.It's great to see more of Tulip and it's also great to see telling Jesse what's upIt's also nice to see her have a night out with a friend, although once again it brings me back to the old 'exactly how self-aware IS Ennis' question that, if I could find a solid answer to, would allow me to just like or dislike his work instead of going back and forth all the timeHaving just finish Ennis' first run on Hellblazer, I had to include these panels because apparently he's got some kind of thing for making his main characters' girlfriends lose an eye???Also this.
#whyGarth Ennis, introducing horrible vampire love triangles a full decade before Twilight!
Review in Volume 9.
I read a couple of those Anne Rice turds as a young man, but even then I wasn't able to stomach any more, and I was never sure - until I first read Preacher - if that was some kind of moral failing of mine.Cassidy's disgust and dry sarcasm are the perfect balm for that scuff on my soul.
I don't begrudge it being in here - it's a pretty common occurrence in life, and makes for some rich, nuanced characters - but holy good god it's probably more tense than some of the "who's going to die next" subplots we endure in long-running books like this.
Dixie Fried felt like a large yet necessary filler chapter om Preacher.
It sets the playground for the next arc of the story, which is to find God by letting Genesis overtake Jesse Custer's consciousness.
The whole Cass vs.
Tulip, Jesse and Cass are so awesome together that painting a malicious issue between them really hurts the way I see them.
I hope this goes to something relevant and good.Arseface was a bit of a chore to read.
Going full Arseface is not the way to go.Volume 5 may not be as good as the other Preacher volumes but it is blasphemously entertaining and funny to read.
It opens with an entertaining story of Cassidy finding another vampire in New Orleans--as well as a group of immortal-wannabes.
This sets up the action for the present-day when Jesse, Tulip and Cassidy visit the city.
The stop-over leads to a voodoo trance, flying bullets, uncomfortable revelations, a beheading, and a meeting with none other than Arseface.
Since I'm not crazy about the route Ennis is taking with Cassidy, I was somewhat dissappointed in this installment.
Still, it was nice to see a resolution for Arseface and to learn more about the entity sharing soul-space with the Preacher.
Not my favorite volume.
I haven’t read it in years, and I think there are elements of the story that would now make me cringe, but I feel confident in the memory that Ennis is a great writer of dialogue, of confrontational moments, and that the series is frequently both dramatic and hilarious.
But I think that this collection in particular, in which Jesse, Tulip and Cassidy go to New Orleans in search of a practitioner of voodoo who may be able to help Jesse locate god, is where Ennis started to realize what a complex and interesting character he had in Cassidy, Jesse’s alcoholic, jealous, pathetic, loyal friend.
This exists to show us that Cassidy is a good man when push comes to shove...that's crucial because most of the rest of the book is showing us what an absolute asshole he can also be, just by not thinking or not caring.Throw in Tulip kicking ass, Jesse getting into a Voodoo trance, and Arseface hitting the big time, and you've got the idea.I hope that's it for Arseface, as he's a waste of time now, no need for comic relief thanks.
Cassidy has a hard time even believing that someone could act this way but understands where he's coming from when the only basis for vampire activity comes from the movies.The story continues much along the same bath that Ennis has already worn down.
However, I still have a sizable journey to the end so I'm holding off judgement for now.5 books in and this series is showing no signs of slowing down.
They've already accomplished so much in the first 5 that I can't help but hope they haven't peaked early or will start showing signs of slowing down.On to book 6!
The best single issue is followed by the single biggest mistake of the series when Cass declares his love to Tulip.
Vol 5 is a damned sweet trade, but Preacher would have been better off without this particular twist.Plot points:(view spoiler)[Cass disposes of Eccarius, the poser vamp.Herr Starr gets a new hat.Cass stabs Jesse in the back because Preacher is suddenly a soap opera.Arseface gets the drop on our heros and becomes a rock star.Jesse hires a voodoo priest to unlock Genesis' secrets.The remains of Eccarius' wanker cult, Les Enfants du Sang, decapitate Cass and try to kill everyone else.
This is my least favorite so far in the series.
It was mostly filler.
Although, Arseface does get somewhat of a resolution.
Tulip also expands more as a character.
I liked her even more in this volume!My biggest complaint is that all of the females are different variations of each other in how they are drawn, essentially.
I really noticed it in this volume, with a handful of female characters looking far too much alike.
I kept having to double check to see what character it was supposed to be.Really looking forward to volume 6 with the return of Herr Starr & The Grail!
Graphic violence is the name of the game for these characters and anybody would be lucky to make it out of this story alive, let alone without any gushing injuries.As someone who never hits on women, I enjoyed the subplot where Cassidy drunkenly confesses his love for Tulip despite the fact that she’s loyal to Jesse instead.
Yep. It’s that dirty…and I love it!And of course, where would the Preacher series be without the delicious violence to go with all of this nasty dialogue?
While we’re at it, let’s keep Cassidy and Tulip away from the cage as well.The fifth volume of Preacher is a satisfying read that makes me want to finish the series.
Another strong volume.
This one has Jesse trying to use voodoo in order to harness the power of Genesis.
We also see Las Enfants Du Sang (I think that's it) which is the group of vampire wannabes after Cassidy.
There's also drama between Tulip and Cassidy, and it looks like Arseface is heading for a musical career.
(I read this entire series years ago but it's been awhile so it's almost like reading it all fresh.)The art is always pretty much perfect for the series, so that goes without saying.This is just a great comic series, especially when it's not so over the top to be silly.
I love the rest of the series so far, but this one felt unnecessary to me.
There was a lot of relationship drama/friendship drama in this one, which I did not enjoy.
I felt not much new was learned and wanted to just get on with the plot.
There was no introduction to this one, which I found odd.
A lot of the female characters also looked so similar, I was having a hard time deciding if it was a new character be being introduced or if someone was just trying to disguise themselves.
I feel the next one will pick up again.
Popravde, , táto časť sa mi veľmi páčila. Zaujímavo sa vyvíjal príbeh Cassidyho a Tulip.
The good part comes with an earlier tale wherein he finds another vampire, and we see demonstrated that he has his own code of behavior, however slippery it might me.That sets up the next bit, wherein Cassidy's essential adolescent nature comes to the fore in his propositioning Tulip, betraying both her and Jesse.Finally, we go to New Orleans, where we start getting a hint of the trail of negligent destruction that Cassidy leaves in his wake.Oh, Jesse and Tulip have their moments in here -- Jesse's search is incrementally moved forward through the help of some voo-doo, and Tulip demonstrates she is more than capable of kicking ass and taking names.
But it's really Cassidy's tale, where he moves from being a sidekick to a true protagonist with his own story arc.
Random thoughts about this volume:- C'mon y'all, let's go to New Orleans, muck around with some voodoo shit to unlock Genesis's memories & maybe we'll battle some vampy little wankers!- Cassidy is turning into a little lovelorn dickhead (there's something off about him...), Tulip is becoming more and more badass, and Jesse is just Jesse/Genesis.
- While reading this series, a quote that often comes to mind is "You might be through with the past, but the past ain't through with you." - my favourite bit in this volume is when the gunfight is going down at the cemetery, and Tulip shoots the tape deck to break Jesse's voodoo spell.
One more star than the previous bunch because this seems to be where the whole thing goes completely off the rails- but not five stars because, while the payoff is nice, Garth Ennis's boner for military army guys is in full effect in this one, and I don't really have that boner. ...Oh wait, the desert thing is the next one. Whatever.
I didn't love the place they took Cassidy's character in this volume -- I mean, was any sort of love triangle necessary in this series? Aside from that, this volume was still awesome, as usual.
The story is really starting to bore the crap out of me in these 2 past books. Love triangles? Voodoo? Arseface the Rockstar? WHat the fuck is going on with my PREACHER?!
Not sure where Ennis is going with the whole Cassidy-Tulip romantic interest, but at least we get to know a bit more about Cassidy.
4.5
Entre tanto tenemos a una secta de emos persiguiendo a Cassidy, que por lo que sea se ha enamorado de Tulip (un giro argumental que me hace bostezar muy fuerte, la verdad, porque era lo último que esperaba de Preacher).
La secta es despachada fácilmente por un Custer que ni siquiera se acuerda de que tiene la Voz a su disposición, y Custer y Tulip se separan de Cassidy para emprender su camino y liberar a Génesis con la esperanza de que los conduzca al paradero de Dios.Como puntos fuertes tenemos a Starr probándose pelucas (es prácticamente su única intervención en el tomo, pero es gloriosa), a Arseface convirtiéndose en estrella del rock, a Bill Hicks inspirando a Custer en sus homilías y, sobre todo, a Cassidy, Tulip y Custer cantando "What a Feeling!" en el coche a todo pulmón.
I found Preacher, Volume 5: Dixie Fried just simply amazing.
Of course by now, readers should understand the language and content are for adults only!I am loving how the plot thickens.
We see some every day happenings, but it is just enough to give our characters depth and structure, without slowing down the story.
I love the hats and wigs for Herr Star, as well.
I really like this novel, and I am invested in the story and characters.
There have been many plot twists, turns, revelations, and surprises.
I look forward to the next volume!
When I finally find time to read this, I am not quite as glad when I did the first time.It misses the whole point of the story: this book feels like going nowhere with all the characters talking about themselves.
It really has big potentials only to be destroyed because the writers decided to take a different route.
We write about different point of views and I know one of the reasons is that they want to know more about the characters.
When the story developed and how the characters talked and react, that's what's most important.
