https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/838768.Stranger_with_My_Face

I read every one of these books I could find in the library in elementary school and junior high. Trashy yet enthralling. I associate them with the period of time I was convinced I could have superpowers if only I tried hard enough. I really really wanted paranormal powers-- particularly telekinesis. If it could happen to the girls in these books.. why not me?

I read this book years and years ago.
In fact, I wasn't sure I had actually read it until I saw the summary of it in Bitch magazine.It's a really creepy premise.
A teenage girl is doing astral projection and while she's out of her body, the sister she didn't know she had slips her spirit into the vacated body.
I may have the details wrong about who the girl who slips into the body is.
Of course, everyone thinks the protagonist's body is inhabited by the protagonist's spirit, and there's not much she can do to correct the mistake.Kept me too scared to try astral projection during the time I thought it was maybe possible.
I haven't read this book in a very long time.
But I first discovered it when I was probably 10-years-old and I just kept taking it out of the library!
The librarians used to look at me and say, "Well there you go again Paula." This was my first introduction to science fiction (at least in book form) and it was awesome!
What if your friends suddenly started acting strange and told you you did things that you don't remember?
What if you started seeing strange things through your own eyes?
This book is creepy, but a real page turner.
It was SO HARD to put this book down every time I had to stop reading.
This should be required reading for suspense writers, because so many get it wrong.
I tried hard to like her, and succeeded only partially.
(view spoiler)[ Like, how did she NOT know Leah was evil?
(view spoiler)[ For some reason I didn't really believe in the relationship between the protagonist and the boy with the messed up face, though.
(hide spoiler)] I liked how the ending was good, but not all shiny happy, either.Fun, interesting, absorbing read.
I have become intrigued with this Authors talent, and plan on reading more of her works in the future.
The story was very fluid and easy to read and follow.
I was a bit confused at the ending and felt like I was left hanging a bit, like it seemed to be left open for a sequel, but I would have liked a little more closure though.Our main character, Laurie, was probably the strongest and best developed in the book, I loved her determination and courage.
It was like they did not wanna deal with problems that were brought into the story, wanted to act like nothing was wrong at all.I thought the premise of the book was great, loved the idea.
I remembered a few things from it and realized this book formed my love and desire to live:On a sweet little island where I need to take a ferry every day to go to school and whatnotWith my house perilously perched on a cliff to take in the best sea viewsWhere I would write all day as a job on my typewriter, click-clacking away.Sometimes I wonder what books are going to seriously shape my own kids' lives.
I stayed up way past my bedtime to finish this story!
It was really scary in a neat way.
Ohhhh I love it when things like that happens in movies and it sent a chill over me while reading it here as well!I despised Laurie's so called friends and boyfriend.
That's just not a friend to me which it more or less says she was only a member of their crowd on accounts of her popular boyfriend anyhow but still...I was not overly excited about "part" of the ending but if I explain I will be spoiling it for anybody whose not read it so I will leave it at that.
I'm not going to waste my time reading this dated, often racist and size-ist, and altogether ludicrous teen novel. I bought it bored on a cold, empty winter day. We do crazy things when holed up in an ice cave for months on end. The purchase of this book is high on my list of wintry follies. Suffice to say I will never finish this. And now that spring is here I have no desire to have this sitting among my things, creating added clutter. Be off with you Stranger! I don't care about you nor your evil twin's face!
The story was published in 1981 and yes, the book is a bit dated.
Although it is a bit predictable, I didn’t know everything that was going to happen and I do like how it was all resolved.
I didn’t really connect to any of the characters, I felt they were kind of stereotyped.
At first I felt as if she was reading a bit too deliberately and it just sounded funny.
I also thought it kind of odd that the main character Lori, who is 17, calls her younger siblings who are 8 and 11 “the children.” I don’t know, maybe it’s because that’s what her parents call them.
I haven't read this book since I was eleven or twelve years, and like most of the other people in these reviews, it was my absolute favorite book of my childhood.
I'm pretty sure I read it about seven or eight times when I was in seventh grade.
By the way, the Lifetime movie adaption was absolute crap, just like everything else on Lifetime.
Anywho, since it's been so long since I've read this book, I'm going to order it offline and re-read it, just to see if I still feel the same way, and then I'll write a better review.
I read this in eighth grade over 20 years ago and loved it then just realized the author died last year rip your books were everything to me as a teen and helps remind me of why ive always loved reading!!
I really enjoyed the premise of the novel. It has some elements that will certainly hold a reader's interest: astral projection, evil twins, disfigured boyfriends, and the like. It's a fun little read, if you're looking for a short book to pass the time.
Once again, Lois Duncan gave me a book I could not put down. I loved it! Can't wait to read more like it :)
I read this years ago and loved the suspense. I just re-read it again and in the exact same places, I shivered. A tad predictable and the story drags a bit. A gripping mystery that'll keep you guessing until the very end. My Rating: 4 stars
Rachel Wargo 2/16/18AP Lang Mrs. SmeenkBook Review  Stranger With My Face is an amazing novel that i would surely recommend for many of my friends. This is a typical mystery novel that is exactly what the title is. This girl, Laurie has her life all put together. She has her siblings, and her great parents. She has her group of friends and the popular guy finally has a crush on her. As she goes through her daily life she doesn’t think anything could go wrong, until another her began to appear. I
Rachel Wargo 2/16/18AP Lang Mrs. SmeenkBook Review 		Stranger With My Face is an amazing novel that i would surely recommend for many of my friends.
This girl, Laurie has her life all put together.
In strange places she would see the back of her, her friends were now thinking that Laurie was another person.
So many people saw a different Laurie, but nobody knew that there was two of them.
I got a lot out of each character and i think that is important out of a great novel.
i absolutely want to read more books by the author in the future, but not in the near future-top many books, to little time
I love this book. Read it around 32 years ago so it was like reading it for the first time again. Enjoyed it so much!
Over the summer holidays she's gone from lonely geek girl to member of the popular group, dating the school's main jock.
So of course, she can't wait for school to start again.
The one thing I did find a little bizarre at first was the fact that this novel, which was originally published in the 80s, suddenly had references to mobile phones, laptops and DVD players.
And then I twigged that Lois Duncan's novels have all been re-released in a newly edited version up-dating them for the modern teen.
Getting Lois Duncan to up-date her novels is a brilliant marketing move and it works well.
im on page 197 laurie found out after 17 yrs that she was living a lye. her mom and dad have ben hiding that she has a twin sister lia that was seperated from birth and lived in new mexico whille laurie is in nyc. if she thought it couldnt get any worse it did. she adopted! and her family is party idian (her bilogical familyy) plus since her idian sister can visit her with special idian beliefs. lia has ben hurting and trying 2 kill laurie freind so laurie and lia are the only ones that stick 2gether
I read this when I was a child, and it's even stranger than I remember it being. I remembered the evil twin, but not that the mechanism was astral projection. On reread it's both creepy and utterly hilarious.
I remember LOVING this book when I was a kid, but I haven't read it in so long, my review is likely biased by memory and time. Need to read this again!
A rather spooky childhood favorite!
it was ok. It wasn't Duncan's best book, but it was still creepy on some parts..
The main character of the book, Laurie Stratton, had been having the feeling of paranormal energy surrounding her in her own home.
The author has written other related stories, and they are similar in terms of the genre.
The protagonist is the main character, Laurie, and the antagonist is Lia, her long lost twin.
She eventually learned why she shouldn’t always do this, though, due to the fact that her long lost, evil twin acted against her to achieve only what she wanted.
This book was written in present tense, though it was officially published in the past in 1986.
For more thoughts and discussion of Lois Duncan and Stranger With My Face listen to Episode 19 of The Bookstore, a podcast I host with my friend Becca about book news, discussions, and reviews .
While I love a good internal struggle (I thought John Green's  Turtles All the Way Down was a masterful look into a teen's inner world), I have to say I found SWMF to be refreshing for it's lack of navel gazing, it's quick pacing, and ability to still create a world for the characters to live in.As a 29 year old, I could see the ending from a mile away, from the beginning of the book, and not because I remembered it from my childhood.
Then one day, a girl who looks exactly like her begins to appear in her life, a girl who claims to be her long-lost sister Lia .
The plot is intriguing (your long lost twin sister coming and stealing your life!) and the pacing is good.
Laurie really loves her family, and it comes through in many moments throughout the book.
So Duncan basically made up a mythology for a real life culture, and plays on stereotypes at that.Even more stereotypes: Laurie's mother was so beautiful that all the men of the tribe wanted her, and she ended up marrying (read between the lines: forced to marry) the son-of-the-chief when she was thirteen.
I read this book because it was chosen by the BookStore podcast and it was short enough to finish before their discussion.
She lives with her parents and two younger sibling in a large cliff-side house on an island.
This sets off a series of events in which people claim they see Laurie when she knows it was not actually her they saw.
Laurie's discovery of who this is propels the narrative of the book.
If you are looking for a quick read in the young adult genre this would be a good choice.
Apparently she has a twin sister who's out to ruin her life.
Will Laurie's sister Lia play such a dangerous game that puts both of their lives in danger?
Sometimes they're so fantastically written that it's not as obvious that it was meant for a younger audience but with this book you could definaely tell it was.
One of the biggest was that Laurie, 17, called her younger siblings "the children." Come on!
The story was predictable at certain points (it was easy to figure out Lia's agenda) and, to me, the ending was a little unfulfilling but I'd still recommend it to a younger audience.
