https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28481.Dragon_Wing
Book one in a 7 book series. I LOVE the series. Let me say this, if you think 'oh no it's just another fantasy series', think again. Yeah it sure seems that way, till you get further in... and you start realizing some of the plot, and the timeline... just WHEN it happens will interest you! Some books drag, some are better, but the last 2 books are my favorite.Book 1 however is action packed and hooks you in quickly.
The Death Gate Cycle is probably my favorite fantasy series. The settings are unique and engrossing. The characters are deep and complex. Haplo is the most interesting fantasy character I've come across.
I'm not too sure how to approach a review of this book.
I've never read the Death Gate Cycle before, and I must say that this book left me intrigued.
The maps and diagrams in the front of the book certainly helped.
Let's face it, the world(s) being presented here is almost a character in its own right.
I did enjoy the surprises and twists, although the intrigue (political and otherwise) being presented here is not nearly on the same level as what can be found in other series'.
Like I mentioned, I wasn't sure how to approach this review.
Se trata de una colección de libros en la que tiene cabida la reflexión sobre grandes temas pero que se sustenta, sobre todo, en unos personajes carismáticos, un universo rico y complejo y un ritmo narrativo adictivo que deja espacio suficiente a los detalles.En mi opinión, esta serie llega al listón de joya del género fantástico (con permiso de Sapkowski) ya que, a pesar de apoyarse en muchos de los estereotipos tradicionales, crea un nuevo espacio totalmente genuino.
It’s been roughly fifteen years since then, and of course, the reading experience changed.This is sci-fi-fantasy at its hugest form.
Hell, yes.It is impossible not to feel endearment and frustration at the interaction and evolution of the relationship between Jarre and Limbeck, the dwarven rebel couple in book 1, Dragon Wing.One can only love the dog, who roughly goes by that name “dog!”, and who is ridiculously important for Haplo.
Immediately I was intrigued by this book as we were introduced into the character of Hugh the Hand.
I was invested in the characters and the mystery of why a child was to be killed.
With some fantasy novels trying this huge undertaking, the description can get stuck in a mire with its details.
That never happens in this book as the pace is terrific throughout.I was impressed by the huge undertaking of conceiving this world.
With a little bit of humor thrown in the reader is intrigued by the characters and the mystery of where this book is heading towards.
The first book is amazingly spry in that they don't bog it down with endless details and make it carry the entire world-building burden.
Plus they are pretty sneaky by starting the reader off with a main character (Hugh the Hand) who isn't really the main character at all, yet he makes a good entry point for the reader.
Our main antagonists, Haplo and Alfred are introduced and by the end of the book I was sucked back in and ready to read the next one.
A good start and I thought this held up surprisingly well after so many years away.
hands down, my all-time favorite series. it's starts a little slow... you have to make it to the point where haplo is introduced, the main character in the series. from that point on, the series is amazing. this isn't just some wierd fantasy series for dorks, like trekkies or something. there are a lot of philosophies and ideologies presented throughout the course of this series, plus the story is wildly creative and interesting. there's nothing like it.
Gran comienzo de El Ciclo de la Puerta de la Muerte, de los creadores de Dragonlance (aunque a mí me gusta más esta saga que la de Dragonlance).Este libro sitúa la historia en el mundo del aire, Ariano. Es fascinante la imaginación de los autores del libro para resolver cada pequeño detalle que pueden encontrar los personajes, sobre todo esa capacidad para imaginar distintos mundos.Creo que una de las mejores sagas de fantasía, pero no mucha gente la conoce.
La fantasía más clásica está desapareciendo. Estos autores la han cocinado muy bien con la clásica saga Dragonlance que muchos la consideran de usar y tirar. Esta nueva saga que abrieron no es reversada, no es adulta, no hay presencia de sangre ni sexo, tramas políticas simplonas… Pero amigos: ¡COMO ENTRETIENE!
A good start for the series. The characters are nice, the plot is quite good, but the ambitious worldbuliding is probably its greatest achievement.4.25/5
La existencia de los sartán y los patryn, con el misterio que los envuelve, así como la identidad aun misteriosa de ese al que Haplo llama "amo" ha sido lo que más me ha gustado.El hecho de que todos los personajes, menos el pobre Linbeck, como Hugh La Mano, Bane o, incluso Iridal (sin olvidar a uno de los más importantes: el perro), tuviera sus propias motivaciones ocultas e intereses secretos le ha dado a la obra una sensación de permanente misterio que creo que es lo que me ha mantenido enganchado y ha conseguido que no pierda el interés con ese principio tan lento.
Dragon Wing is book 1 of 7 in The Death Gate Cycle.
The Death Gate Cycle is set in the far future, a post-apocalyptic world that looks a lot like traditional fantasy worlds—full of humans, elves, and dwarves.
The Death Gate Cycle follows a Patryn escapee from the Labyrinth, Haplo, as he explores the four worlds on behalf of his lord.
It’s those four disparate worlds that make the Death Gate Cycle special.
The Death Gate Cycle is epic fantasy but the nature of the worlds allows the introduction of tropes from post-apocalyptic and science fiction, injecting much-needed originality into the genre.
Instead of seeing the usual fantasy world and culture that is in most novels, this one is very out-of-the-box thinking when it comes to that aspect.
Dragon Wing is pretty good at avoiding all those cliches.However, the characters are dull and forgettable.
Some characters we get the focus on for a bit and some interesting changes (I won't spoil it), but for the most part, anything huge that happens to any of the people in the story is just shrugged off because there's no connection between the reader and the character, so there's no reason to care.If you're really into fantasy worlds, definitely check this book out.
This is the first Weis/Hickman novel I've read.
I'll certainly keepgoing with this seven-volume series because this one was a lot of fun.Any time I pick out a Fantasy or Sci-Fi novel to read, it is imperativethat it has this one quality: Give me an interesting (the moremind-blowing, the better) world or concept.These authors obviously put a lot of thought into this world they've created, and described it in a manner that was not dull or over-wordy, but fun and adventurous.
Nothing quite John Irving-esque here, butgood enough to care about what was going to happen next to them.The next volume is definitely on the near horizon for me!
I have to admit that I’m of the latter camp, and while I strongly suspect that there was a time when I could have greatly enjoyed Dragon Wing, that time has passed me by.
These days, I’m a little too jaded and I’ve read a few too many works in a very similar vein.
Dragon Wing isn’t bad, necessarily, but I’d be lying if I said I particularly like it.It starts well, mind you, as master assassin Hugh the Hand is employed by the king for that most politically...
Read More: http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
In  Margaret Weis  and  Tracy Hickman's  book Dragon Wing, tosses you into a new fantasy world that is so unique and innovative, quite literally. The character development of this book is unrealistically advanced, to the point that you have several main characters. They complement and contrast other characters in this book. The storyline takes you from reality and puts you into a time line which is unknown to you, and that to progress forward into the book is to learn of the past. The trek throu
book Dragon Wing, tosses you into a new fantasy world that is so unique and innovative, quite literally.
The character development of this book is unrealistically advanced, to the point that you have several main characters.
They complement and contrast other characters in this book.
The storyline takes you from reality and puts you into a time line which is unknown to you, and that to progress forward into the book is to learn of the past.
The trek through a foreign and awe-inspiring world combined with the different personalities and development of characters pushes this tale forward, as if itself were on a journey.
Just as I remembered. Not the most sophisticated book, and it has some of the 80's fantasy book villains issues, but the world building is quite good, and the characters aren't flat as you'd expect. I thing it still can hold it's own against now days novels, but it might be my inner 12 years old.
This was the first epic fantasy book I ever read. This saga is the reason why I never enjoyed Harry Potter at a young age. I found it rather lame compared to this.If you are into exploring new worlds, this is definitely my way to go. Margaret Weiss and Tracy Hickman are an amazing writing duo.
Still in my top 5 book series!If you are in the market for a satisfying high adventure story filled with a unique take on classic fantasy tropes then look no further.
Todo al que le guste la fantasía conoce a estos autores y la mayoría habréis leído la DragonLance.
A mí, por supuesto, me encantó.
Así que cuando esta nueva saga cayó en mis manos no dude ni un instante en leermela (y yo creo que, en general, es bastante mejor que su más conocida obra)Lectura entretenida, personajes carismáticos con sombras y una historia trepidante que, poco a poco, te va enganchando hasta que no puedes parar.Siglos atrás, unos brujos de gran poder dividieron el mundo en cuatro reinos (cielo, piedra, fuego y mar), y a continuación desaparecieron.
It’s been a really long time since I’ve read this series.
So long that I’d forgotten most of what happened on the first book and only remember some of the books that follow.
It’s one that I’d recommend to fans of fantasy.
It’s different than most fantasy books, although some similarities are there.
I’m not quite sure why they put them there and I really didn’t remember them being there when I first read them.
I think the book would have been fine with just an appendix of explanations.
If you like fantasy I definitely recommend this series.
This also take into consideraton of other generas such as sci fi ect, but if an author wishes it to be fantasy then they had better study LOTR first.The plot structure and charactor development in this book were (as to be expected) briliant and there wasnt any stepping stones skipped over.
But in this book you can feel the charactors changing as you read and the plot makes sense even with its own mysteries in the book.
I hope that this makes sense because it is hard trying to sum up 8 months of literary study in a review to explain what makes to book good or bad.
It's been a long time since I have seriously enjoyed a fantasy novel.
Strange, since I still consider it my favorite genre.
From start to end, I enjoyed it and wanted to read more about it.All the characters, for one, are really well-developed.
My favorite character is the assassin, Hugh the Hand and Alfred, who faints with disturbing regularity.
10 year old Bane scares me, but he has a lot to offer in character.
A lot of things came together during the end of the book, but I still have so many unanswered questions.
Which means I have the read the next few book.
The characters were quite well-rounded - and I particularly liked Alfred.I have to say, I felt sorry for Bane for part of the book, but he was a complete brat for most of it.
I suppose he comes under the category of 'villain who does do some nice things'.I'm not sure there were any truly good characters, apart from Alfred.
The whole concept with the song and the elves was interesting - I'd like to know more about how and why the song actually affects them.The Gegs were particularly likable, though I was sorry to see Limbeck and Jarre's relationship end.
I am given this first volume a reluctant three stars, but I don't recommend the series.In the mid 80's Weis and Hickman wrote the first Dragonlance novels which were very popular.
Since Dragonlance they have worked on a number of other series but never as successfully as the first.
Perhaps the most ambitious is The Death Gate Cycle, seven books set across five worlds each with its unique ecology and politics.
And it fails miserably.I think the root cause of the failure might be too much world building, so much that all the other elements didn't receive enough attention.
I was recently telling a friend and her husband (and you know who you are, Emily) how wonderful these books were, and as I was talking to them, I managed to talk myself into re-reading the books.Hundreds of years ago, the Sartans (a magical race) Sundered the world, dividing it into four components (air, stone, fire, and water) in order to prevent their enemies, the Patryns, from gaining control of the earth.
Reading this book again was like meeting old friends after twenty years and finding that they hadn't changed at all.
The characters are wonderful, and this series is unique among fantasy series.
loved it because it spoke about a tiered world, with the gegs (dwarves) being the ones on the bottom rung, totally exploited by other beings who proclaimed themselves to be gods and afraid of the elves!!
finally as all subjugated peoples do, a small faction started to rebel, and foment unrest amongst the gegs, the factree where they worked to provide water for the gods and the machine which kept them enslaved started to cause questions to be asked, then they found a human (god) who turned out not to be a god and excepted this himself and the revolution started for real!!
Am dying to read the next book as I love revolutions!!!
Llegué a esta saga de la mano de la obra más reconocida de esta autora (y Tracy Hickman), Dragonlance, con la intención de comprobar si era más de lo mismo o algo distinto.Una grata sorpresa me llevé: el mundo descrito en Ala de dragón, no el mundo de Ariano donde transcurre este primer volumen de la saga sino del universo entero es realmente sorprendente.
Una construcción sólida y que en su primer acto nos presenta a un protagonista con el que el lector empatiza casi desde el principio pese a tratarse de un ladrón y que es visto por los demás como un pordiosero.
An executioner name three chop Nick waits impatiently the cleave through the blood and bone of everyones favorite character right on the first page.
The writing style the makes bile rise and the heart beat at whim controls the victims of this series.
Grunting and cheering.
The language flows beautifully from a majestic landscape to a man being bound to the blade of a dagger.
Yet like all good things you won't realize its happening till its happening and once it does its time to call for pizza because that clock doesn't move slow enough.
