https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91097.Trouble_with_Lichen
ان جيلنا لا يعبأ بالتعاسة التي سيسببها..✒اللعنة على اطفال اطفالنا مادمنا نحن على ما يرام ..و لكن اذا استطعنا ان نحيا حياة طويلة كي نقلق من اجل انفسنا؟؟اننا نخطو نصف خطوة نحو الحكمة و بعدها نشيخ..نحتاج الى الوقت كي نكتسب الحكمة و نستعملها..و الا سنموت جوعا"اهذا هي قصص الخيال العلمي التي تروق لى⚪..
ذلك النوع الطموح الفلسفي العاقل الذي ميز فترة منتصف القرن العشرين فكرة لامعة عن منتج "الانتيجيرون" المأخوذ من "الحزاز" لا يمنحك الخلود بالطبع و لكن يطيل عمر الخلايا بشكل يمنحك وقتا اطول تبهرك الرواية رغم بطء أحداثها و كثرة تفاصيلها و طابعها البريطاني البارد ..
و لكن تظل تتأمل في تلك العالمة النابهة "اقدر جدا اختيار مخترعة" ديانا العبقريةالتي تهرب اللاليء الثمينة داخل لاليء مزيفة"مجازا".
I wanted to see if I would like the book now that I could fully understand it.As it turns out, I am in agreement with my younger self about how tedious this novel is.
I know one of the factors in my earlier dislike of the novel was that I was expecting something quite different from what I got.
I thought that perhaps even if I disliked the book the second time around, the experience of rereading it would stir up something meaningful like a memory or an insight, even a vague one.
Trouble with Lichen didn't strike me as quite as readable as Wyndham's other books, but the prominence of female characters/concerns was a welcome surprise.
The plot is a bit different to Wyndham's other books, too.
You might be excused, knowing Wyndham's other books, for thinking that this is a book about lichen taking over the world, but this isn't one of his post-apocalyptic efforts.If you've enjoyed Wyndham's other stuff, this is a bit different, but equally enjoyable, I think.
The science isn't too stunningly out of date or anything like that; Wyndham's writing is perhaps a little more stilted here than I remember it being in other books, but I enjoyed his hold on characters and relationships more.
3.5I'm fast becoming a fan of Wyndham's works. This is a lot more thought provoking than Day of the Triffids, though I will confess to enjoying it far less. Though it comes across a little preachy at times, Trouble With Lichens is nonetheless interesting, funny (at times), relevant and thought provoking, and I can honestly confess that I did not see that end coming.
I was expecting something along similar lines – an out of control plant species runs amok, humanity is threatened, and we are forced to face the moral questions that come along with fighting for survival in an increasingly cruel world.That’s not what Trouble With Lichen is about at all, though I did keep imagining this silent creep of green mossy evil, slowly enveloping humans like a oozy blob, because it’s a funny mental picture.One of my major complaints regarding classic-era science fiction is the dearth of female characters with responsibilities that go beyond making tea.
My recollection of those novels was that they were enjoyable but tended to have poor endings, as if Wyndham had said what he wanted, got bored and just stopped.
That said, Wyndham does describe some of the most dramatic action directly.Thirdly, the ending, though abrupt, was fairly satisfactory, after all: Many SF writers would be more interested in describing the social consequences of a drug that can extend the expectation of life tremndously but that is not Wyndham is after - he wants to suggest that women are not merely ornaments or baby factories and the beginning of a social revolution gives him plenty of space to do so.
Rather lichen offers mankind the solution to one of it's oldest problems, but the two people who discover it fear the social ramifications of it getting out.I'm not even going to talk about the nature of the benefits this lichen offers to mankind because it's not revealed until about 25% of the way through the book.
But I'm doing my review for people who like to leave as much as a surprise as possible and don't read the backs of books (a very hazardous practice indeed).This is not a post-apocalyptic story, nor is it even apocalyptic, although it explores the trials and tribulations, moral dilemmas and philosophical discourses of the two main protagonists who semi-independently discover a rare strain of lichen that has the most unusual properties.
" ماذا لو عشنا اعواما فوق اعوام من الترف والثراء اهذا حقا لنا بان نظلم اجيالا اخري ..
ان تعيش ثلاثة اعمار عمرك ..
ماذا لو خلق هذا جيلين من العاطلين ....
اللعنة على اطفال اطفالنا مادمنا نحن بخير"قصص الخيال العلمي دائما ما تجذبني نحوها فلا قدرة لي علي تركها ماذا تعرف عن الكيمياء الحيوية؟؟  الانتيجيرون المستخلص من الحزاز ..الذي يقضي ع الشيخوخة ويطيل العمر الي مائتي عام ..
ما السر ف هذا الرقم؟؟ ديانا الكيميائية التي فاقت التوقعات ..
الناس لايومنون بمعاهد التجميل دائما ما تتميز باللاشئ .
النصب من ثماتهم ولكنهم معها وجدوا نتائج حقيقية بفضل الانتيجيرون!!!!
This John Wyndham book, did not really contain anything that made me feel awesome (or even great or wonderful, for that matter), and as a result after loving his books like The Day of the Triffids, The Chrysalids and The Midwich Cuckoos, having read through the years, this one was very much near to boring, and even skippable I should say, much like how Chocky was just prior to this about four years ago.
Eventually I ended up thinking it was an alright-of-a-read, and was happy that it was only 200 pages long!
Definitely not 'gay' (as in cheerful) satire. Not even all that satirical, really. Social commentary, yes. An awkward exploration of how 'women' and 'men' and 'the rich' and 'the working class' and 'the religious' will diversely react to the news of a longevity treatment. Needed more individual people, not types. Interesting and entertaining enough, but if you've read or watched any SF, or philosophy, or have even dreamed yourself, you have your own ideas, and Wyndham's are, well, odd. If you've never thought of the idea, read Tuck Everlasting and watch some Twilight Zone... don't bother with this.
Published in 1960, John Wyndham’s Trouble with Lichen tells the story of Diana Brackley, a revolutionary, a feminist, and a scientist.Diana is considered odd because although she is attractive, she does not want to marry.
Instead, she is dedicated to her career in the lab, and it is there that she makes her amazing discovery: a type of lichen that slows the aging process.
Diana decides to use the lichen to empower women, and she sets up a beauty clinic that caters to rich and influential women (more often, unfortunately, women who are married to rich and influential men).
What if someone find the true anti-aging formula which enabling people to live to around 200 years?
A man may fear death just as much, but in general he doesn’t resent age and death quite as woman do.
It’s as if a woman lives—well, on more intimate terms with life; gets to know it more closely, if you understand me.
And it seems to me, too, that a man is not so constantly haunted by thoughts of time and age as woman is.
Generalizations, of course, but averagely valid, I think.
Though I don’t know for sure how it should be, at least he tried and it’s fascinating.
This was AMAZING! I love John Wyndham, but my problem with him was that his books always came across as sexist and racist. Though this book is still massively problematic in Wyndham's understanding of feminism, it's at least an understanding and frankly it's a pretty good one! He seems to have a good understanding of the binary between the public and domestic spheres and how that works in gender, and frankly, it was just well-written and exciting! My new dream is to find a lichen that starts a feminist revolution. This book is beautiful.
Read this 13 years ago, only fiished it due to lack of alternative reading material. Disliked it enough that it stuck in my memory, although details are fuzzy. Didn't realize it was the same author as 'Day of the Triffids'.
This book is unusual and intriguing.
Much more essay-esque than the rest of Wyndham's stuff, and perhaps that's contributed to it's comparable lack of popularity.
Especially one who, as far as my limited research has found, wasn't particularly know for his feminist leanings.Could this have effected the book's readership?
Though the movement has evolved a lot since the 50s, I can't see the majority of yester year's housewives reacting at all well to their depiction within the novel.
Would we be expected to?However you react to his depiction I really do think The Trouble With Lichen makes an intriguing read.
7/10I've been meaning to read a Wyndham novel. I found this and I was glad to finally be able to read one. Then I read the reviews and got the idea it wasn't the best one to start with but I read it anyways and I ended up really enjoying it ;D
I wouldn't say this is his best novel, in fact it felt very slow and meandering to start, and in someways is slow moving, told through people having conversations.
But Diana thinks women can achieve more than just being wives, just accepting things the way they are, and "diddling" through time without really thinking or wanting to change anything.
She thinks in that extending women's youth, it gives them space to grow (the panic for marriage and children is put off if they wish), think and consider that society should be fairer, things can be arranged differently.
When I gathered what the gist of this book was going to be, I assumed the rest of the narrative would be concerned with various governments and wealthy individuals killing each other to gain the secret of this plant’s life-extending properties, but no.
How are they going make a living if the previous generation don’t vacate their jobs?
The author addresses these and many more social concerns of extended life for the masses.My one qualm, and it is a minor one, is the title of the book, which put me off for a while.
Francis Saxover and Diana Brackley, two scientists investigating a rare lichen, discover it has a remarkable property: it retards the aging process.
Francis, realising the implications for the world of an ever-youthful, wealthy elite, wants to keep it secret, but Diana sees an opportunity to overturn the male status quo by using the lichen to inspire a feminist revolution.
"Trouble With Lichen" is a scintillating story of the power wielded by science in our lives and asks how much trust should we place in those we appoint to be its guardians?
I've been wanting to reread it for a while, but I did wonder how it would stand up, especially as it is a book written in the 1960's, by a man, about a revolution (for lack of a better world) led by women - and rich, white women at that.I was both relieved and rather surprised to find that on the whole, it did.
Having read a couple of Wyndham’s other books this is definitely not his best work. That being said I did enjoy it. It is different in the sense he tries to tackle and understand the (radical) feminism of the 60s and 70s and science fiction. I love how the main character, Diana, is both a villain and a hero. This was done really well and I’m still not quite sure. That is what is excellent about this book - the moral ambiguity of age, beauty and scientific discovery. All in all, if you like the blurb, read it.
A book ahead of its time. Very strong female character with Diana. A biochemist who discovers the elixir of life. A lichen which extends one’s life by a few hundred years. The book is a satire and funny in places especially the newspapers and their fake news. The premise of the plot is novel but lacks a bit of punch in the delivery. However, it is thought provoking and I think close to the mark of what might happen if anyone discovered a drug to extend life
More like a 3.5, but I have bumped it up simply for my love of Wyndham. A very interesting look into the huge responsibility that comes with scientific discovery.
The philosophical dilemma posed here is endlessly fascinating, and is going to turn over in my head for decades to come, but I didn't find the content/arc of this book particularly enjoyable to actually read.
Book club choice for February from Sue, and it's taking us back a few years, published in 1960. I thoroughly enjoyed this book, a certain feminist edge to it, and sci-fi but not space sci-fi, short and set in the UK, ticked plenty of boxes. My one and only criticism, a pretty abrupt ending, and I want to know what happens next!
And after a nice run of 14 years, that secret does indeed come to light, resulting in society-shattering repercussions....The astute reader will notice that Wyndham did not name his book "THE Trouble with Lichen" (as might normally have been expected); such a title would of course have suggested a single solitary problem.
This is one that I come back to less often than others (The Day of the Triffids, The Kraken Wakes) but still find new points to enjoy nonetheless.
It's different from most of his others, being more concerned with potential/actual societal change and the philosophical musings around what would happen if we could live 200 years.There's a preponderance of strong female characters - not entirely unusual for Wyndham, but they almost entirely dominate, making a nice change, and all with different voices.I still consider it one of his lesser books - it's also quite short - but much more enjoyable than, say, Chocky.
This was a quick read, breezily satirical and crisply written, with a charming heroine and an interesting hypothesis: What would happen if a lichen could be found and processed to create a potion that could slow the rate of human’s growth and extend people’s lives.
With the aging bulge in population by ‘Zoomer’ baby boomers who are healthier, more active and numerous than previous senior generations, many of the attitudes described in Trouble with Lichen are showing up today.
While I’m not generally a science-fiction reader, every so often I stray into one of the John Wyndham classics and always enjoy them sufficiently that I want to go back and re-read his other novels.
Not the best known of Wyndham's books - the Triffids offer stiff competition - and one I'd overlooked.
It's of its time, a time before genetic engineering was dreamt of, and yet curiously relevant to our own age of obsession with self-image and eternal youth.
- and has a good dig at the hysteria of the popular presses along the way.
The heroine is curiously distant and we can't be sure her motives are entirely noble.
She's a misfit, but one with means and wiles and goodness knows what plans for the "improvement" of humanity.
I enjoyed the fast pace of this book, which followed the evolution of a female scientist and her male counterparts facing a moral dilemma with a new biological discovery.
I felt that the character development was a bit shoddy.
The author also uses different characters to move the story along and it left me wanting to know more about those characters than what was provided.
In general it seemed to have a short story feel.
It was a very quick read, I finished it in about 4 hours.
Even so, I thought it was an interesting, fun, and somewhat insightful story.
