https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1145614.Dogger
I had almost forgotten just how good this is. Shirley Hughes manages to tread that fine line between emotionally affecting and twee without ever falling into the cutesy pie. The story of how Dave loses his beloved Dogger was always a favourite, especially with daughter number one, who had her own traumatic experience of losing Benny. For a whole winter, indeed. He turned up the next spring when we returned to the allotments, to find him carefully propped up on a hedgerow, looking out for his owner.
The summer fete features many activities that were common place when i was at school but when i recently read this story to a small group of year 1 children I found myself having to explain many of the activities that are illustrated.
The fashion is different as well and it makes a good starting point with younger children to get them to think about whether the story is set in the past or present.During the search for Dogger the illustrations are smaller and laid out in a way that seems to emphasize the panic and eagerness to find poor old lost Dogger as mum tears the house apart looking for him.
It has stayed in my family for many years and I have read it on numerous occasions to my own children who have enjoyed it just as much.It’s about a young boy called Dave who looses his precious soft toy called dogger and as a result he becomes very sad.
Dave’s sister Bella does something very special to re-unite Dave and Dogger once again.The great detailed illustrations in the book add to the delightful experience of reading a wonderful story.
I would definitely recommend this book for children in EYFS and KS1.
This was a wonderful story about loss, gain, friendship and family love! Most assuredly worth reading with your child. The love a child can have for a favorite toy and what happens when it is gone. Be warned, your child may be a bit sad for awhile but be sure to finish to the end! Very much worth a family or bedtime read!
One of my favourite children's books. It made me feel so warm and fuzzy after, I wish I had a sibling who would have done that for me!Also, the stuffed dog reminded me of a plush I used to own, which added to the cuteness of this book <3
It has a 4 for nostalgic reasons. I had to include his in my reading log because it is one of my favourite childhood stories. I was reading it to my son and just had flashbacks of my childhood! Love this book.
Such a loveable children's book! Perfect for a bedtime story with parents or in the classroom looking at decision making. The story line of conflict then resolution makes it so relevant for developing children to understand and learn from. With lovely illustrations and a story line that could almost happen to any child I would highly recommend all young children to read this picture book!
His baby brother has his ‘hard toys for chewing on’, his sister Bella has her teddies, but Dave finds full satisfaction in his Dogger.
They are inseparable.It is therefore a cause for much dismay when after collecting his sister Bella from school, Dave realises that Dogger is no longer with him.
Despite Bella’s kindness in lending him a teddy, nothing can replace Dogger.
Shirley Hughes manages to capture the simplicity and sincerity of a child’s love for his favourite toy through her narrative and illustrations; a love that many people can relate to.
Shirley Hughes is one of the best known and most popular creators of children's books of all time.
She began to write and design her own picture books when her children were very young because she felt there was a gap in this form of literature.
Dogger belongs to a young boy called Dave who takes him everywhere with him.
But one day Dogger gets lost and Dave is left really really upset and unable to sleep without him.
His big sister comes to the rescue and swaps a giant teddy for her brothers Dogger, making Dave a very very happy little boy.
Instantly I was drawn to this book as it is one that I remember reading as a child.
I read this book with a child this afternoon.
I asked the child questions about the book and they were able to give the answers based on what they had heard.
This book I would use from year one up to year, adapting the range of questions that I would asked based on the year group.
I found in this book that you could ask questions about feelings and get the children to empathise with the characters.
A beautifully well written and well illustrated book, with a lovely message.This story is about a young boy, his stuffed dog ‘Dogger’ and his family.
One day after the young boys love for Dogger is in no doubt, Dogger goes missing!
The story has a good complication and climax then in the end, as you would hope from a book of this nature aimed at this age group, things all work out in the end.
As an aspiring primary school teacher I am sure I will use this book many many times in the future.
I will look out for other Shirley Hughes books.
'Dogger' by Shirley Hughes tells a lovely story of the importance of a little teddy. The story tells of little boy who misplaces his favourite teddy and finds himself completely lost without it. The story delves into the theme of 'belongings' and of the importance of having special objects to cherish. This story is a great read to share with those children of the EYFS/ early KS1, as it highlights the importance of respecting belongings and of respecting the belongings of others. This book is great to use to inspire circle time and provoke discussion around respect and sharing.
I adore this book. There should be more stories that show so naturally, and so authentically, acts of love.
I love the way Shirley Hughes portrays family life and captures the things that really matter; a much loved soft toy called Dogger who belonged to Dave. Dogger is lost, but due to the kindness of his sister Bella, he finds his way home again. There's so much to see and talk about in Shirley Hughes' illustrations.
• Learn about doing things to make others happy.• Book is easy to read and understand by higher ability key stage 1 pupils.• Can be explained to younger children • Get in touch with feelings and expressing themselves, how would they feel if they lost their favourite toy?
When Dave loses his favourite toy, a small, threadbare dog named Dogger, he is very, very upset.
They are accompanied by a lovely story which many children will be able to relate to, with a positive message of helping others.
This book is ideal to read to children from nursery age to Year 3/4 where the children will be able to relate to the attachment to toys that Dave has to Dogger.
For younger children, a PSHE lesson/ circle time could stem from this story, with discussion about respecting other people's items and how they may feel if they lost something precious to them.
The main character Dave had a little teddy Dog which he adored, I was able to relate it to the children asking them if they had a little teddy or toy they cherished.
The happy ending in which Dave gets his cherished "Dogger" back is a result of his sisters kindness and selflessness.
The children were so happy for Dave at the end of the book that they cheered and smiled, they were aware of the good deed that his sister had done and as a result they learnt about doing good deeds despite personal sacrifices.
One morning, while out with his mother, meeting his older sister Bella at school, Dogger disappears.
When bedtime comes, Dogger is nowhere to be found, and although Bella loans him one of her teddies, he is very sad during the night.
In the morning at the school fair, Dave is too sad to have fun, and he wanders off from the rest of his family.
Bella saves the day, trading her new teddy bear for the worn old Dogger.This well-written story begins with concrete details and builds to a dramatic crisis and resolution that any child who's had a "lovey" can identify with.
I think a lot of children would be able to relate to Dave when they think about their favourite toy and how they would feel if they had lost it.
The next day is the school fair Dave is only interested in finding Dogger despite all the fun and games going on.
By the time Dave finds his parents to buy Dogger back, another little girl has bought Dogger!
In the end his big sister Bella comes to the rescue as she gives us the big teddy she won at the fair to reunite Dave and Dogger.
A lovely story with realistic and detailed illustrations about a child who loses their favourite toy.
Dave loses his "dogger" and Bella, his sister, helps him get it back.
This can be used to shows children how families can help each other out.
A great story to use for a PSHE lesson, to discuss loss and how loosing something you like can affect you.
It can help children to understand feelings they might feel in this situation and develop the strategies they may need to overcome it.
This is a wonderful story and pictures will touch you, and stay with you forever.
Drippy eye alert! My volunteer said "This books has the wrong label on it.. It is HUB instead of HUG, So I decided to put it in the fix pile. OH, a get this book!! The love a stuffed animals is almost everything!! Nice book! Good sibling story as well!!
This is another five-star favorite that I read to my children. It's a gentle, lovely story with sweet illustrations that perfectly captures a child's attachment to his beloved stuffed dog and the generosity of his sister.
This book was given to me as a gift when my children were little by a British friend who highly recommended it. I agree with her. This is a lovely book about kindness and helping others. Wonderful!
I particularly enjoy Shirley Hughes' stories; despite their increasing age compared to many contemporary authors, they seem to remain extremely relevant to children nowadays, and even to the childhood memories of many adults.
What child doesn't have a favourite toy or comforter at the age of four or five - some adults still have them!
Bella's actions (Dave's older sister) provide a fantastic example of sibling kindness for children in an increasingly materialistic world, and demonstrate that often happiness is not found in the biggest material benefit available.
A beautifully illustrated picture book by Shirley Hughes detailing the life of Dave, who loses his favourite toy Dogger, for it to be found later on at the school fayre on the raffle stand.
This had been one of my personal favourites as a child, the story remaining with me throughout my adult life.I believe that the nature of this book means that children are able to relate to it, thus have more meaning with it.
In the classroom, the teaching of this book could be aided by providing a 'Teddy Bears Picnic' where children are able to bring their favourite teddys to school for a picnic.
Miss 3 and I like to explore different books and authors at the library, sometimes around particular topics or themes.
We try to get different ones out every week or so; it's fun for both of us to have the variety and to look at a mix of new & favourite authors.This was one that I chose for us to read.
I love the post-war London look to the drawings with her books.
Miss 3 thoroughly enjoyed and I'm sure every person has the great teddy bear hunt resonate with them and the genuine misery of a child unable to sleep without their lovey.
I can totally relate to young Dave when he loses is favorite stuffed friend, Dogger.
I can also relate to his sister Bella, when she sleeps with all her stuffed animals in bed with her (ah, the memories of doing the same and feeling guilty when they all ended up on the floor in the morning).The best part about this sweet story is Bella's selfless act at the end of the book.
We often focus only on the bickering and fighting, but siblings sometimes surprise us with their acts of kindness toward each other.
Let's focus on those more and maybe even set an example ourselves.
You can definitely tell that this book written in the 1970s just based on the fact that there is a lovely image of children wearing "fancy dress," and it's the clothing from all different types of cultures. It's a bit weird.Tolerable story on its own, though. Not brilliant, though. It does have a nice lesson about why we need to share, but I think there are far better books available these days that would do it far better.
Read this book to my grandson and, because we enjoyed it so much, I sent my copy with him to school for his classroom library. I don’t know if his teacher ever read it to his class or any others, but I hope so. This simple story has good descriptions of family dynamics and the issues of problem solving and love and cooperation between family members that all children could benefit from with just a simple discussion as the story is read aloud. I will be looking for more books by this author.
Every kid can relate to this story of Dave who has a favorite stuffy. He gets dirty and so they wash him. Lots of other kids have lots of toys - but he mostly loves Dogger. One day though, Dogger goes missing. Finally, he is found as is for sale! Unfortunately, Dave doesn't get back in time with the money to buy him. The tension! This would be a good story for teaching rising action/tension.
