https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3124249-a-lion-among-men
I was originally entranced by Maguire's ability to reinvent Oz while still keeping the classical whimsical elements alive, in fact fleshing them out by putting them in a realistic and harsh reality of social commentary.
Maguire seems to have finally mastered his tempo problems of the first two books: the action, dialogue, and introspection all blend seemlessly to make this an easy, engaging read.
If you fell in love with the first book but were apprehensive about the second, I say save yourself the time and money and stop where you are.
Yes, A Lion Among Men has them all!
This is the Cowardly Lion's story in a nutshell...and a few other nuts are de-shelled as well.
It's interesting to see what he's done with the place!If you're not hep to Maguire's take on Oz, here's a word of warning: He has a somewhat comic approach and his material is occasionally blue.
It's not always easy to go from serious to ridiculous and back again.If A Lion Among Men is said to miss its mark - as many critics complain - it's due to a lack of a truly engaging story.
So. The third book in what's now referred to as The Wicked Years.
Brrr is on Emerald City business, in search of the oracle Yackle, who was mentioned in Madame Morrible's notes.
Mostly in search of both The Grimmerie, Elphaba's book of magic, and Liir, her son.
Yackle was often on the outskirts of Elphaba's life and Brrr wants to know exactly why.
There were parts that were interesting, both with Brrr and Yackle.
Brrr's childhood, for instance, since we know he was the cub in Wicked, and his interractions with Dorothy.
Yackle's memories of Elphaba and Liir and Fiyero.
Gregory Maguire wrote a terrific book called "Wicked" that I liked a lot and that spawned a Broadway musical that bore only a passing resemblance to it, but was also terrific.
He couldn't leave well enough alone and wrote a sequel, "Son of a Witch" that was really bizarre and a little creepy and didn't make a whole lot of sense, but was okay--sort of.
Well, it's sort of okay now that I've read installment three, "A Lion Among Men".
I just wish Maguire had written a book worthy of the first volume.
I was all geared up to find out what happens with Liir and you-know-what-from-the-end-of-Son of a Witch, but the third book in this series barely mentions him.
Instead, this book focuses primarily on the Cowardly Lion and his life experiences, and touches a bit on Fiyero's daughter.
I found the author's language annoying, if not incomprehensible at times (or maybe I just didn't have the patience to figure it out), and felt as though the effort he spent trying to sound profound could have been better spent developing a worthwhile plot for the Lion; overall the reading felt tedious.That said, I did enjoy some of the book, particularly the bits involving Mother Yackle, a strange character first introduced in Wicked, whose history is revealed in A Lion Among Men, and is a lovely example of the bizarre, yet imaginatively delightful writing I was expecting from Gregory Maguire throughout the book.
I really love Gregory Maguire's writing style, and I love where he has gone with this story over the three novels.
I suppose this is due to the fact that the protagonist in this story had little relation to characters I'd become attached to in the previous two novels--I still felt at odds at the end, and wishing a bit more to see the Point.As always, however, Maguire's turn of phrase and ability to put complex thoughts into interesting prose did not disappoint, and whatever questions I had about the plot, I was carried through easily on the strength of the writing.
After the rushed feeling of "Son of a Witch", MacGuire redeems himself with this novel... it made me feel as if some wounds were healed for both the reader and the characters.
A Lion Among Men is the third book in Maguire’s Wicked Years series and it’s the best one by far.
As well as getting to know Brrr, we get to know Yackle and how she came to know the two women who would become the Wicked Witches of Oz. Some of the answers we learn in A Lion Among Men were from questions or mysteries first posed in Wicked, so the book should please fans of the series.But even better than that, A Lion Among men is a wonderful parable and parallel of one lion among men who, though surrounded by people, is incredibly alone.A Lion Among Men is one portrait of a lonely lion haunted by a need to belong.
These books are too clever for their own good - or at least they think they are.The central characters in this book are the Cowardly Lion (who briefly appeared in the original book as cub) and Old Mother Yackle - the Oracle.
So Yackle is trying to figure out why.The Cowardly Lion (his real name is Brr) comes to Yackle for information - he's looking for Liir and thinks she can help him.
As a servant of the court he has to find it - otherwise he'll end up in Southstairs.But Yackle needs to know if she can trust Brr - so she gets him to share memories.
Wicked was an act of amazing and original brilliance, taking a world that we are all familiar with, and turning it completely upside down.
Brilliantly imagined and equally brilliantly realized, one of its strongest suits was the way in which Maguire took elements of the original books, (not just Wizard) and wove them together into a familiar and yet wholly new world.
Son of a Witch was weak, and left you waiting for resolution of a number of issues at the end of the book.
If you read Son of A Witch and thought it was terrific, then knock yourself out, you'll probably like this one as well.
"Wicked" was fantastically drawn, while at the same time intriguingly vague and introspective.
"Son of a Witch" and now "A Lion Among Men" only make blind attempts at creating the same mystique; they stumble along the way and end up a jumble of meaningless revelations that do nothing but create a more convoluted and less intriguing story.
At the same time that story has none of the charm of "Wicked".
In truth I was happier speculating about the vague origins of Yackle and the dwarf; I was content guessing at the significance of a partitioned Oz and a witch's bumbling son.
Upon finishing this book, that is exactly what I did, but I'm a nerdy ginger not a demi god, so the effect may have been less impactful.
I adored Wicked, tolerated Son Of A Witch, and despised A Lion Among Men. I kept reading this last book hoping all the while that the everlasting backstory would turn into a decent plot, but my wishes were not granted.
This book made no sense in context with the Wicked plot line, and was lacking in depth to be a stand alone novel.
It failed to resolve the conflict involving Elphaba's death and was weak in addressing any thematic issues in earlier books.
Maguire is a fantastic world builder and blew audiences away with Wicked back in 1995.
Lion continues in this tradition, but offers no characters that differ greatly from those in Wicked.
Maguire has a tendency of making all his characters very similar: Incredibly pessimistic and overly verbose.
This tendency cheapens the insights of what is a otherwise a very talented writer.
He continues his themes of the individual versus society, the question of fate, free will and human nature that were prominent in Wicked, but does not offer any new insights or new ways of looking at the question.
For now, I am agonized over the several years it's likely to take before I get another smidgen of insight into what the freak went on in Oz and beyond.I took away a star because it left me hanging, again.The development is a little slow - less action takes place - most in the present is in one building, over one day.
And are left really wanting to know more.
Here's to Gregory Maguire's swift completion of the *next* book in this series.
This book is almost completely backstory; we learn nothing more about Liir and Tristam and Candle and the new arrival.
The part of the story that does advance moves only about 3 inches, and it was no mystery who the handmaiden of the clock is anyway.
And Yackle's story--if you have to summarize it at the end, it wasn't well delivered.
Speaking of the ending, it was ponderous, and Maguire could have done better than use a literal deus ex machina.I did enjoy Brrr.
And I'll read the next book because Son of a Witch hooked me.
But the loose ends had better start coming together.
2.5/5*Pese a que sigue el mismo estilo que los anteriores libros, me ha gustado menos. La historia me ha resultado más aburrida y el personaje principal, Brrr, menos interesante que Elphaba o Liir, y aunque se han desvelado algunas incognitas, y algunas partes han sido muy interesamtes, me ha parecido bastante relleno en generalAún así me sigue gustando mucho la manera de narrar de Maguire y he de agradecer haber podido saber más de la historia de Yackle, personaje que siempre me interesó mucho y del que ahora estoy enamorada.♥♡♥
It took me ages to get into this book. It's not the best of the series by far. I didn't even Like Brr or Yackle. You do learn a lot more about Yackle though. It is funny in parts too. The ending left room for more books. Eh...
This is even better.Maguire is either an Asperger's person or intimately knows someone who is, as he so perfectly describes the journey of a character who grew up with no social interaction abandoned in a forest (King of the Forest?), and slowly learns the art of conversation and dealing with people and relationships through eventual painful life experience.
Beautifully and brilliantly done.I have a son with Asperger's...how interesting to view him as a "lion among men," not quite fitting in despite his ability to speak the same language.
I'll start this out simple; Maguire has yet to equal the writing he exhibited in Wicked.
I don't get the sense that Maguire's writing abilities have improved since Wicked was published.
She develops a rapport with the lion that is entertaining, biting (no pun intended) and ultimately tender.The chance for more information about Elphaba (a literary character with a following that could fill any Comic-Con panel discussion) doesn't hurt the novel either.
I admire that Maguire takes on the challenge of writing a novel from the POV of a character whose life isn't the most exciting nor whose personality is the most inviting.
I love Maguire's style and use of language. As he writes, I can hear his voice narrating and performing (which is why I won't spoil it with the audiobook, Maguire himself is a wonderful performer, and it was a delight to see him in person.) Lion is not as compelling as the previous two books, but gains momentum with the reappearance of Yackle, and the subsequent explanation of the character.
The third book in Maguire's return to Oz fills in some gaps in the ongoing storyline, and has a few moments, but overall falls short of the entrancing epic of "Wicked."I enjoyed the book, and am glad to have read it, but wouldn't put it in the 'classic' status like "Wicked" or in my "must read again" bookshelf.
They took them to heart and acted as if to live inside them.”I'm glad I finally made it back to this series, to finish up book 3.
I've enjoyed so many of these author's books that it was great to enjoy another.
I loved book one, only liked book 2 and I would put this one as somewhere between just okay and I liked it.I think something about Elphaba's journey really struck me - unlike her son's story in book 2 and now the cowardly lion's story in book 3.
If there is a book 4, I will definitely pause before picking it up.
Out of the series so far this was the best one and the one I enjoyed the most. I love the cowardly lion in the Wizard of Oz and he's my favourite character in the film so I think that's probably why I liked this book so much. I found it was alot easier to read than the other two and was easier to get into because of that. Definitely recommend reading the series even just so you can read this one as it's so good
Third in the 'Wicked' series, this story of Brrr the Lion fills in gaps in the overall tale, with a sad tone of regret and loss. Like many current regimes, corruption reigns, power-mad 'leaders' use others, and failure is sometimes rewarded to the haplenss. Maguire's analogies to community (the forgetful bears, the wary tigers) and politics take an even darker tone, while the quest for the magical Grimmerie book surprises. I enjoyed the references to the other iterations of Baum's Oz. Yes, it's a sad tale, No, it's not 'Wicked.'
enjoyed this one alot more than the others! looking forward to the ending, but i still find myself so lost in his writing having no idea whats going on and then all of a sudden it clicks!
Out of repentance for having betrayed the hopes of rescue of a young, dying soldier caught in a Bear-trap, Brrr stumbled through a haunted swamp, was implicated in a massacre of trolls, and fell in love with an emotionally disturbed Leopard princess, which last left him unable ever again to visit her people's part of Oz. Now, in order to avoid a prison sentence -- the oppressive laws against talking Animals are still in force in many parts of Oz -- he has agreed to serve the war-mongering Emperor of Oz, Shell Thropp, younger brother of the late Elphaba.A Lion Among Men describes a battle of wits between Brrr and Yackle made urgent by the approach of the Emerald City's armies.
I have spent years neglecting to finish this series because I had no interest in reading this book. I didn't care about the lion or what he had to say, I just wanted more of Elphaba, Glinda, and Liir.Well, I'm happy to say that I was wrong. While this book doesn't exactly take place in the action of the series until the very end, it actually answers quite a few questions left open from Wicked and Son of a Witch. I'm still not a fan of the Lion, but I'm not really sure I'm suppose to be, either.
Luckily, A Lion Among Men was a hit and one of the first of this series.The first book of Maguire’s that I ever read was Wicked and, while it started out very promising, ended on a more sour note.
It would be the fourth book of his that I read and out of the previous three, I liked one and a half of them.The story of Brr (or the Cowardly Lion as we all know him) was actually everything I was hoping his other retellings would be like.
Brr wasn’t cowardly because he was born that was but more because society and life made him that way.
The beginning was a little slow but I liked the Lion's story. Yackle is also an interesting character and I admit I was happy to read about her again. They bring the book to a cool end.
If there's any universe a coward could work in as a protagonist, it's the Wicked Year, where failure comes practically guaranteed.The authenticity of the Cowardly Lion (whose name was established as Brrr in the first book) relies on the realism of his cowardice.
I know fantasy authors like the whole conceit of doubling back and covering a story from a different perspective, but Maguire doesn't write these books often enough for it to seem like time well spent.All in all the Cowardly Lion just doesn't seem like a character anyone was really dying to know more about.
