https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6070552-the-notebooks-of-leonardo-da-vinci-complete
I do NOT recommend the kindle edition, which cannot do justice to the drawings, to say nothing of Leonardo's mirror-writing.
Leonardo worked as a military engineer for the Sforza, as James McNeil Whistler's father worked for the Czar building a railway.
Since my daughter has lived in Milano a quarter century, I have also seen many of Leonardo's constructions there in the Museo Nazionale della scienza e tecnologia.
Leonardo foresaw the US budgets of the 21st century, where the Department of War (nobody should believe the euphemism, "Defense") swallows whole the Arts.
Solution: Be a Whistler...or a Leonardo.
Wonderful detail from a Master; I need to find an illustrated version (if there is one) to better understand or see what he was seeing when he made his notes.
Considering this book is comprised exclusively of translated notes from 16th century Latin, the fluidity and general ease of readability was a pleasant surprise.
A quintessential polymath, versed in so many areas, a mind as great as Leonardo may come around only once in a century.
In an attempt to design an ornithopter, Leonardo's study of flight is excacting, transcending from aeronautics to the behavioral science of birds.
While studying anatomy, Leanardo makes it clear he is not comfortable working by candle light late into the night, alone with a mutilated body at his side.
So much to say about Leonardo. Truly the quintessential renaissance man. Reading his complete notebooks made me realize that the breadth and depth of his curiosities and goings-on are much greater than is commonly known. Many of his writings were discovered after the inventions he wrote about were re-created by others, but this collection still puts any modern blogger to shame. Keep your journals, you never know who might be interested!
Read this online at Project Gutenberg. What a great thinker and a great service.
Something an art and science geek like me can get into. An ongoing reference of creative genius.
This book is appropriate for students of observation, that is, science and art students, et al. Students as young as tweens can appreciate LdaV's notebooks.
A masterwork for understanding the process of creation of the great Maestro.To read this book and have the opportunity to contemplate Leonardo's thinking process was an Honor.
I immensely enjoyed reading the book. It inspires one to work, to think, to explore... and, ah, to paint too! Da Vinci's interests were wide-ranging.
(He thought that the Earth was full of water.) Another major complaint I have is that he often refers to diagrams which are not reproduced in the book.However, there are some interesting bits.
The painter waits for the priest to leave, then rushes to his window and dumps a large bucket of water on top of him, proclaiming, "Here's your hundredfold reward from on high!"Da Vinci also wrote a series of "prophecies" which sound like they could be included in the Biblical book of Revelation, but actually describe mundane events.
kindle cloud
