https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/478451.Alberta_and_Freedom
Instead Sandel chooses to share her memories from living a different type of life in the streets of Paris.
She seems to only live in the present and expands with connections to friends, and other people from abroad trying the more artsy life style in Paris.
To me it was interesting to get a feel for the community of artists living in Paris at the time.
Alberta is a bit different though, but her mind and observations allow us to get a sense of the lives of the artists, their friends, models, gatherings and the overall way of life.
This is Cora Sandel, real name Sara Fabricius. She is significantly more awesome than you.
Alberta broke my heart when she is dying alive in filthy hotel rooms, benches and the arms of men who want something out of her.
It felt like Viergaard was interviewing Alberta.
It eats at Alberta when men like her Norwegian lover use her to take care of their bad at the real world.
I think that's shit but I can't deny I wanted more than anything for Alberta and Liesel to do anything but that (how the hell was she shocked by her friend or her own pregnancy?
I liked Alberta more when she wasn't.
Why isn't this author better known? This is a fantastic study of an insecure person coming to terms with life. And it's beautifully written!
This book is really beautifully written and the story is very nice. I really liked it.
Alberta is a very occasional artist's model and freelance journalist but really she has no job.
Both the lack of money and the lack of role are problems but this rolelessness brings us to the freedom of the title.
This awkward, unnerving in-between-ness in which she somehow carries on is the nearest she can get to freedom because there she is as much herself as the world will allow her to be, without having to be something to somebody else.
This is part of why the book has some warmth to it; Alberta's life is not so devoid of consolation as it might seem.
Sandel masterfully portrays the ennui and the lack of individual direction of a woman who struggles to wrest control of her own life, but, in the end, is mostly buffeted by life and largely makes her life choices through the process of avoiding choices.
Not only did I recognize my younger self, but to some degree I recognized every woman among the novel's various female characters.
I have thoroughly enjoyed the journey so far and look forward to "Alberta Alone," the third novel.
It occurs to me that perhaps Sandel came to recognition late because she was so far ahead of her time.
Love her.
5.0 out of 5 stars Superb writing, 12 Jun. 2016This review is from: Alberta and Freedom (The Alberta Trilogy) (Paperback)Second volume of the Alberta trilogy: having left our 'heroine' in previous volume (Alberta and Jacob) as a depressed, dissatisfied teenager, living with her parents in the depths of N Norway, this book describes her new life in Paris.
But life is hard, living in a garret and struggling to make ends meet.
