https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/862004.The_Clue_in_the_Crumbling_Wall
This has to be my all-time fave Nancy Drew mystery. It has an aging castle, and hidden trails through the overgrown gardens, and boat trips up secret tributaries, and a cloister walk down to the beach, and a clandestine Poet's Nook...and on and on. This is one guilty pleasure I do allow myself a grown-up read now and then on winter days by the fire.
This mystery involves yet another abandoned mansion that's a stone's throw away from Nancy's hometown River Heights.
In this particular book, the mansion is most easily reached by boat.
I'm reminded that River Heights has the word "river" in it, and this book definitely makes the most of it.Nancy's sleuthing brings her to encounter a seafaring gentleman known as "Salty" who makes a living selling mollusks to the townsfolk.
I've always wondered whether it's a New England town, but several online sources say River Heights is in the Midwest.It really doesn't matter.
Nancy's world is a fictional fantasyland.
Abandoned mansions everywhere!
Ned was missing from this book. Apparently, Nancy "missed her special friend who had gone to South America on a school project." (See chapter 10, paragraph 3). Hopefully, he's in the next one.2018 challenge: a book mentioned in another book (The Secret in the Old Attic)
In chapter one, in a non-sequitur action sequence, Nancy finds a pearl in a freshwater clam from a door-to-door clam salesman.
What the hell is a door-to-door clam salesman, besides another veiled reference to lesbianism?
Ned Nickerson appears once in writing, but apparently he and the other guys are in South America.Nancy helps find a missing woman whose inheritance is being mismanaged by a crooked lawyer.
Part of the inheritance includes a Lost Textile Process.Bess loses consciousness when she falls out of a boat and hits her head on a rock.
Nancy loses consciousness when she's in a factory that explodes.
Maybe it was The Mystery of the Moss-Covered Mansion that I really loved?
(I'll try that one for the next challenge, as my "cozy" mystery...) The ending was a bit...
anticlimactic to me...Anyway, this book was a Nancy Drew version of Cinderella.
The kind where Cinderella is a dancer who has been missing for 10 years, and in which the "prince" (aka rich fiancé) died 5 years afterward, leaving his fortune to the missing woman, who must claim it within 5 additional years.
And so time is running out and Nancy Drew must FIND the dancer, or the evil lawyer will get all the money (through mischievous ways)...
These may be the books that pull me out of my reading slump!
Well, I met a woman who collects Nancy Drew books.
I haven't read any in a long time.
We exchanged favorite titles so I went to the library and got out my 2 favorites and hers.
I read all three and they were better than I remembered.
The descriptions of the estate was just as wonderful as I remembered.
I was impressed that Nancy was an interesting young woman - not the pablum I kind of remembered.
She now drives a sports car (still a convertible), not the "roadster" of the books I read oh so long ago.
And is George the first model of gayness for young women?
Yet another excellent addition to the Nancy Drew mystery book series.
I must be in some kind of a reading slump, since it took me four days to read this, lol. This was another typical Nancy Drew mystery. Sorry Nancy, but that's all the time I have to write a review today haha. Maybe I'll update this later.
The Mystery of Crumbling wall is 22nd edition in Nancy Drew mystery Series.
This mystery was less action-filled and adventurous but still intriguing and captivating.The story starts with a missing dancer and also a potential hieress to a big fortune.
The dancer must be located in time so as to prove her rightful inheritence.
Nancy begins her quest to locate the dancer in order to help her impoverished sister and her little daughter Joan.
But a lot of hurdles and sinister plotting lies between Nancy and her goal.Will she be able to achieve it before the time runs down?Overall a very nice and enjoyable read.
This was pretty good, but it seemed that the clues were too far apart and weren't pieced together properly until the last second. I felt this way with The Secret of the Glowing Eye. I've been reading a lot of Nancy Drews this summer because i get a thirst for some mystery each summer. The one i would recommend is The Secret Of The Broken Locket or something related to the Broken Locket, but I think that one's my favorite and i have read it at least four times.
When I want to escape for a few hours there is no where better to lose yourself than a Nancy Drew book.Easy to read,usually plenty of dangerous situations that you know Nancy will get out of some how.Yeah in the earlier mysteries you know who the bad guys are but who cares,you still can't beat a good Nancy Drew book and this mystery is one of my favourites.
I probably wouldn't hate reading these as a grown-up if I hadn't read them as a child. But they are a fun, nostalgic read for me. Even though Nancy's world is cliche and idealistic, it's sometimes comforting to turn to a book where you know everything will turn out a-ok in the end.
Probably the most romantic Nancy Drew ever. Not so campy as some, but high marks for atmosphere, romance, and imagery. Solid mystery and love combination made this a very piognant Nancy Drew.
Nancy is trying to locate a missing dancer. A delightful mystery.
When Nancy Drew becomes involved in a case where a dancer went missing ten years ago, clues lead her and her friends to the haunting HEATH CASTLE.
They become aware that thieves are exploiting the estate and its crumbling walls.
And what is the lawyer in charge of the estate doing about it?
Nancy and her friends are pretty sure that the lawyer is not making any effort in finding the missing dancer.
Danger lurks in the castle and its towers.
The girl's gripping adventures end their most baffling mystery as it ends with a dramatic confession of the whole scheme which will hold all Nancy Drew fans in suspense.
Judy was like "I stole the rose bushes 'cause we can't have pretty things!" and Nancy's like "No, it's okay, sadface," and the mom's like "if only my talented dancer sister were here, she's missing; she was gonna marry a rich man and he died but he left her his estate and if she doesn't claim it in three weeks it reverts back to the state!" Nancy of course is like "YES PLEASE."Also, this clamdigger/seller named something normal but who has the nickname Mehearty (because he kept calling people "me hearties" and Nancy referred to him as "Mehearty-man" as a child) tells Nancy about Heath Castle (said rich guy's estate) and is kind of an idiot, but he has a good heart and he helps the girls out.
I’ve got to say River Heights sounds like a magical place—someone’s even built a castle! And thank goodness Nancy could just whip out her knowledge of Middle English to solve the mystery! My favorite part of the book is when Nancy gets so wrapped up in the mystery she forgets George in a shack, who is waiting for her clothes to dry and depending on Nancy. It's nice to know that Nancy has some faults, and it's even better because she her fault is a result of being so absorbed in the mystery.
This was a fun read, and perhaps I'm reading these books a bit too close together, but I'm getting a bit tired of poor relations needing money as reason for Nancy to get into a mystery. This was still fun, and involved a castle, no less-and Bess and George were on hand to help as well. This is a good read, but I would recommend others for a start to Nancy Drew. This series is always reliable for something easy and entertaining, which this book delivers in spades!
Just finished reading this with my granddaughter, Mattie, and I believe she liked it as much as I did 50 years ago. I read every Nancy Drew book I could get my hands on; it really was the beginning of my passion for reading. My granddaughter loved it when I told her I would put a lamp under my covers and read all night to keep my parents from knowing I was awake. It's a wonder I didn't catch the bed on fire! I highly recommend sharing your favorites with the next generation.
A castle with crumbling walls, overgrown gardens, and a tragic love story. Nancy saves the day once again! It’s been a long time since I’ve read any of these, and this one is definitely a favorite. Prepare for some tears at the end during the heartfelt “finale”.
This was less far fetched as other Nancy Drew books are. I couldn't follow (in my mind) the castle that was being destroyed by the bad guys. Once again, I enjoyed the antics of Nancy with George & Bess!
Giving this five stars because it was "amazing" is a bit much, but for a ND story, this was a really fun one, with a whole slew of drama and intrigue. I loved the abandoned castle exploration, and there was real peril involved!
This has to be my favorite book now of Nancy Drew! I loved how the story’s plot blended well, the reasoning behind who did it was not easy to find out, and the ending was just as it should be- perfect! Will read again for sure<3
Parts of this book seemed familiar as I was reading it, but others weren't. I liked this one. Good action, and stuff didn't happen too easily as in some of the other books.
Another fun one, complete with a vanished heiress, vacant castle, and a star-crossed romance.(read to us by our daughter on a road trip)
3.5
The very first Nancy Drew book I ever touched and one of the best to feature the young sleuth. A timeless classic.
i'm the impostor that pretends to inherit this CASTLE
Another fun mystery.
