https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6095883-design-as-art
munari diceva: «il sogno dell'artista è quello di arrivare al museo, il sogno del designer è quello di arrivare al mercato rionale». e diceva pure: «l'uovo è una forma perfetta benché sia fatta col culo».eccoci qui. con un libro in cui c'è tutto: il sublime e il prosaico, il colpo di genio dell'ispirazione e la ripetitività del metodo, il volo pindarico e la pratica. un testo fondamentale. da consultare, da leggere, da tenere lì perché di munari non ci si stanca (io non mi stanco) mai.
This has been my Italian year reading wise.
After Elena Ferrante, Umberto Eco, Roberto Calasso, Felice Benuzzi, I'm adding Bruno Munari to my list of the best experiences of 2016.
For me, Design as Art might be the definitive book on design, because it's precise, smart, and humorous, and because I've never before read anyone talk about design with such combination of joy and gentle scolding that at times I needed to close the book and laugh to myself.
What a great read this one is.
Part social commentary in a world of design, part designerly musing, and part thoughtful criticism at a world filled with abused objects, Munari's new publication by Penguin is a welcoming oasis of short essays (many merely one page long concisely argued and written) to the tyranny of cognitive science and user research tomes dominating design thinking today (think Norman and IDEO combined).
Or as Munari suggests, should we design objects according to how it has been worn across time?
But it is this pensive quality of his work that merit his presence in the mind of every design thinker--a mind that seeks to ponder the thoughts on design across time.

A quote ‘Copying nature’ is one thing and understanding nature is another. Copying nature can be simply a form of manual dexterity that does not help us to understand, for it shows us things just as we are accustomed to seeing them. But studying the structures of nature, observing the evolution of forms, can give everyone a better understanding of the world we live in.    It's a gem!
Så tacksam att få ta del av Munaris humoristiska, erfarenhetsbaserade tankar om design.Fann den via en 'staff pick' i museishoppen på National Portrait Gallery.
Anywho, I had originally read Design as Art a while back because it was recommended to me by someone at the Bauhaus-Archiv in Berlin, and about a year or two later by a Danish guy at a clothing store in NYC when we were talking Naoto Fukasawa.
I had no idea what to expect upon going in.What I found was one of the most brilliant explanations of the merit of industrial, graphic, and architectural design I have cole across yet.
Either way, Munari basically said everything Dieter Rams wanted to say about design in a much more round-about way, so kudos to him for that.
About half of this book is excellent and insightful design theory, which I found compelling and inspiring as a designer myself. However, the rest of the material somewhat detracts from the excellence of these parts with tangential stories about the author's own projects (references to his own work aren't a bad thing as such, they are just too frequent and sometimes too lengthy) and a couple of tedious chapters that spend several pages dramatically emphasising a single point.
W związku z tym przyszedł czas na zrecenzowanie arcydzieła teorii sztuki projektowania - Design as Art, za którego zaistnienie się odpowiedzialny jest włoski artysta, Bruno Munari, prawdziwa gwiazda swojej dziedziny.
Zresztą, nie tylko wzornictwo Munariego jest różne od tego, do czego jesteśmy przyzwyczajeni; także zadania wyznaczone projektantom są nieco inne:„The designer of today re-establishes the long lost contact between art and the public, between living people and art as a living thing”.Grają trąby, drżą góry, artyści-projektanci, otoczeni świetlistym halo zniżają się do poziomu profanów, przekazując im swój święty ogień!
From what I understand, this book was written in the 70s, so many design principles hold relevance even today, some do not, so in that sense, some of it is slightly dated.
The takeaways are truly your own as a creative person, so its kind of a make-what-you-will of these essays, here is what Bruno Munari has to say about design stuff.
5. What I appreciated about the essays, is that there are global references, about art and design in other countries, which is nice to have context about, as a creative person.All and all, a good quick read, not too boring, some stuff I definitely highlighted/bookmarked and will go back to later.
Though he gets a little high on his horse at times, Munari's thoughts on art as a trade are very cool, and offer an interesting exploration on the relationship between skill and practical function. As a worker in a creative field, it's a refreshing perspective to think of skill as a service rather than, like, Art, which is worth thinking about, too, in the hierarchy of high and low art, or whatever.
Really, really enjoyable book of essays on art and design. Some chapters were less interestinh than others, as it usually happens, but I found it a book full of curiosity, appreciation and enlightenment.
The first book I've read that clearly articulates what a designer is and what their duty is to society. Over all the book was interesting. Lot's of disconnected ideas related to design and aesthetics.
کوتاهنوشتههای یک طراح ریزبین و نکتهسنج.کتاب موناری به شما آموزش طراحی و به طور خاص طراحی صنعتی نمیدهد، موناری کشفوشهودها و حکمتهای آموختهاش را در قالب نوشتههایی که به پستهای بلاگی امروز میماند، به شما منتقل میکند؛ درواقع این کتاب نگاه طراحانه و نوع رویکرد به هنر را از نگاه نویسنده آموزش میدهد.بدون شک بخش طراحی پژوهشی شما را با توضیحاتش شگفتزده و علاقهمند خواهد کرد.
کوتاه‌نوشته‌های یک طراح ریزبین و نکته‌سنج.کتاب موناری به شما آموزش طراحی و به طور خاص طراحی صنعتی نمی‌دهد، موناری کشف‌وشهودها و حکمت‌های آموخته‌اش را در قالب نوشته‌هایی که به پست‌های بلاگی امروز می‌ماند، به شما منتقل می‌کند؛ درواقع این کتاب نگاه طراحانه و نوع روی‌کرد به هنر را از نگاه نویسنده آموزش می‌دهد.بدون شک بخش طراحی پژوهشی شما را با توضیحات‌ش شگفت‌زده و علاقه‌مند خواهد کرد.
I think Munari does a great job challenging the reader to think about ways to improve design (making it more accessible), however at times I got lost by his subjective ramblings.
It's important to remember that this is sort of a catalog of Munari's thoughts.
If you're looking for a book to learn about design, there may be better reads.
Personally, I learned the most from his writings about the traditional Japanese houses and I like the way he contrasts the Japanese way of life (where virtually every part of their house is well designed and serves a purpose) to the life of Italians (who indulge in superfluous luxury).
This book started out really great! Munari's vision for what design can be is very well articulated and worth internalizing. However as the book went on, it got a little less interesting. The book is basically a compendium of essays on design. Some of the essays were absolutely wonderful. Others were a little more tedious. But the good ones were great and definitely worth reading.
Like listening to a wise elder ramble on an on about varying topics only to find that at the end of all of it, the specifics of the monologue have all melted together. An easy mindless but enjoyable & wise read.
There are 4 category of design explain here namely Visual design, graphic design, Industrial design and Research design.I would have given 5 stars, if the last part of research design is not present in this book.
There is not many pictures also.Upon completion of this book, my mind was counting on pages rather on what author is intended to convey.
This book would have been a great book, if presented more colourful with lot many pictures.
It would be better if author could have sum it up at end of chapter or end of section.Not so impressed.
Humorous, insightful and an engaging read.
A must read for anyone who confuses between art and design.
The author presents a viable case with respect to industrial and visual design.
The chapters are not essentially list based and the book is worthy of many re-reads.
Some of my best quotes are as follows:"Anyone who uses a properly designed object feels the presence of an artist who has worked for him, bettering his living conditions and encouraging him to develop his taste and sense of beauty.""When one studies something characteristic of a people it is wise to look at its best side, at least if one wants to learn anything.""Errors in construction do not arise from the aesthetics aspects of a thing, but from neglect of the natural and logical techniques of construction.""Subtract rather than add"...and so on.
The first half of the book is quite good with the author's musings and original ideas about the function of art in human life and how it related to design as functional art.
So is the section in which delves into the relation between art and natures.Unfortunately the 2nd half on the book devolves into navel gazing on the author's own exploration of art using different mediums and doe not have much co-relation with the design aspect of things.
Even then some of the small essays are interesting enough to be read on their own.
Overall a decent read.
A very satisfactory read as for as content goes, but no so much when you actually take the time to appreciate the writing.
Bruno Munari might be a guru of design (in his own right), but while the book does hold very interesting teachings and examples on the subject, his writing lacks the appeal and coherence of what would be expected in a book of features.
A larger than expected number of pieces feel unfinished, which would create a somewhat continuous feeling of "so what?" if it wasn't f0r the very compelling topic - the meaning and method of art in the age of reproduction.Nonetheless, a good read if you like design and/or want to understand how and why design exists in the XXI century.
Bruno Murari asked a designer/engineer why he had painted a certain scooter yellow.
He then explains that it is the hallmark of a true designer, one who knows what is immediately practical and avoids frills and jazz and jargon to justify his shoddy work.
His key knife to the design process is functionality, and you can forget form for all you care ( he employs the example of an aerodynamic hearse to tell us how ridiculous style can get).
While his austere devotion to function comes clearly across (and he has an important point on several things), the publics sometime like a key hanger in the shape of a giant key with hooks attached (Munari thinks they're being stupid)
Ignoring the fact that some things in this book did not age well (and this was to be expected). The book starts strong and interesting but the later chapters dwell a little bit too much in the irony through enumeration and small experiences without (in my point of view), much utility.Also, at the time of writing, the pragmatism and utility surrounding the Design world as well as using nature's forms as reference wasn’t something really new. Nonetheless, these points of view are always interesting to read and can be a positive reinforcement for young designer’s minds.
Short little collection of musings, experiments & criticism related to the state of affairs regarding design in Munari's day and age. While his predictions regarding the future of the aesthetic landscape might be off, for instance, the idea that the desires of the future consumer will be homogeneous and perhaps rather drab, he delivers several interesting takes on the world around him, sometimes delving into the innocence of the vision of a child, while at times sounding like an old man recollecting about the bygone days and the absurdity of the now.
It is interesting to see the image of design in the 50's and the 60's that are portrayed clearly by Bruno Munari in this book. Design in that period is more related to engineering, architecture, mathematics, and physics. He introduces us something new in that time which is design as art that becomes the norm now. But, it's quite technical and rigid explanation that we will find in this book so might be a bit complicated to grasp.
I could read this once a year and find something new in it every time. The Italian mid century version of Kenya Hara's Designing Design. Creatives who don't identify as designers, aspiring aesthetes, designers who became engineers, engineers who want to be designers, the curious - this one's for you!
"One day a man with nothing but a hammer in his hand presented himself to one of the great personages of the day and said: 'With this hammer I intend to make works of art, great works that the whole world will come flocking to see.' They ushered him, kindly but firmly, out of the palace. It was Michelangelo."
Easy to be read. The art and design both seem hard to approach. However, Bruno Munari uses accessible topics talks about concepts that we can think about art and design, from color to shape, from function to beauty. Open the imagination of the daily objects next to you.
Bruno Munari is a genius and everything created by him should be enjoyed (or studied, as you prefer...)! I find it rather interesting that in the 21st century I would much rather have a dead Italian genius 'talk' to me about design than any other contemporary desing-thinking-expert-guy.
One of the best books on design I’ve read. Approaching design by taking cues from nature is something I’ve been particularly interested in as of late. If I ever teach a class on design this will be a required reading.
