https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6539.The_Body_Farm
Final Thoughts  4 of 5 stars to Patricia Cornwell's fifth book in the Kay Scarpetta series, The Body Farm, published in 1994. The title alone tells you what kind of book this will be, and it is full of thrills and suspense. Scarpetta has an opportunity to try to capture a serial killer she's dealt with sometime in the past. And with the history she needs to revisit in this one, you will learn a lot more about who she is and what's happened to bring her to today.Another good part of this book i
4 of 5 stars to Patricia Cornwell's fifth book in the Kay Scarpetta series, The Body Farm, published in 1994.
And with the history she needs to revisit in this one, you will learn a lot more about who she is and what's happened to bring her to today.Another good part of this book is the development of Scarpetta's relationship with her niece, Lucy.
but he still makes you angry.As Scarpetta finds different body parts all over the place, she knows she's close to meeting her match.
It's still early on in the series before the books get too "governmental" and "formal," in regard to Scarpetta's career.
From the misnomered title (A 'body farm' is only in a small portion of the book) to the implausible plot--how did this get past editors???
One has a dubious past and 'lied' on her application???
There are many other problems with the storyline...Scarpetta returns to the crime scene at night and 'forgets' a flashlight???
A child is missing and NOBODY thinks to search her home--but Kay does?
Scarpetta enters a suspected killer's home without a gun, yet she sleeps with one next to her bed at all times?
Sorry I wasted my time reading this....
The personal perspective of Kay's teammates, family, friends, and my familiarity with them make all her series exceptions.
Patricia Cornwell's novels are a successful effort in higher tolerance.I ask authors to cease hurling cat deaths into fiction.
This will always deduct a star but especially with the horrific addition so pointless and arbitrary to the novel.
That criminal's plot, pertaining to Lucy's FBI training, suggests that his unwarranted appearance sets up a succeeding novel.
I look forward to Patricia's next novel, after my habitual break to absorb other tones of fiction and non-fiction.
Number 5 in the Dr. Scarpetta series.Kay Scarpetta is more of an investigator that a medical examiner in the story.A young girl is murdered and the murder is attributed to a known serial killer.
Whilst the FBI and the local police are searching for the serial killer Kay goes of in a different direction.
Although in the end it was Kate’s investigation that proved to be right.For all it’s flaws this is still an entertaining read.If you have enjoyed the other Dr. Scarpetta books then you’ll enjoy this to.
Mixed into the plot of Dr. Scarpetta's public life of autopsies, vengeful serial killers, and bastard politicians obstructing her and the police, are a vividly dysfunctional gang of police friends, lovers and family who pop into the middle of her cases causing stress and distress.
Anything related to Gault has the attention of the FBI - and Dr. Kay Scarpetta!
Do I like PC or do I not like PC?
I'm tending toward the latter with this book.
It's the 2nd PC book I've read.
Kay is unappealing as a main character, and grows even moreso the more I read her.
Is it believable that she has all of these incredible insights into fingerprints, car wrecks, etc.
Are we to be ambivilent and accepting of the fact that she is an active accomplice in marriage-wrecking?
Above and beyond this, there's just nothing relatable, enjoyable, and interesting about her character.
Has taken me a very long time to read this book.
I think Patricia was starting to question her own sexuality with this book, because there is absolutely no reason or previous hints, that would have lead anyone to believe that Lucy simply getting her cigarette lit by a pair of female hands means that she's a lesbian.
It felt very out of the blue that suddenly Kay was suspecting of Lucy's sexual preferences.The Benton storyline:I actually didn't mind this, though I was rather ambivalent towards it one way or the other.
His jealousy though did make more sense than the entire Lucy plots.The killer storyline:Meh. Didn't like.
Όλη η ομάδα καλείται να αναλάβει δράση για να λύσει την υπόθεση, όμως είναι το κοφτερό μυαλό της Σκαρπέττα εκείνο που θα επικεντρωθεί στις μικρές λεπτομέρειες που θα οδηγήσουν τελικά στην εξιχνίασή της.
Η Κόρνγουελ έχει δηλώσει πως η Σκαρπέττα είναι το alter ego της και αυτό είναι φανερό στο βιβλίο - το ότι δηλαδή η συγγραφέας έχει γνώσεις που αφορούν την ιατρική, την ιατροδικαστική κτλ., και πως αυτές χρησιμοποιούνται με τον καλύτερο τρόπο όπου κρίνεται απαραίτητο.
Ας πούμε, το τι ακριβώς έχει παιχτεί με τον Γκολτ (που όλοι τον κυνηγούν και κανείς δεν έχει καταφέρει προς το παρόν να τον πιάσει) και το πώς εξελίχθηκε μέχρι τώρα η σχέση της Σκαρπέττα με τον Μαρίνο ή τον Ουέσλεϊ, για παράδειγμα, είναι ασαφές.
In my head I always imagined Marino looking and behaving like Skipp Sudduth's character John 'Sully' Sullivan in Third Watch, who isn't particularly appealing in personality or (to be honest) appearance.Unfortunately, I had to dock a star due to the false advertising of a book about the body farm that wasn't actually about the farm at all and because I have a question about the passage of time between this book and the previous one.
Entretenido, aunque previsible.
Picking up the threads left in the previous novel, Scarpetta has agreed to advise the FBI on some of its cases, to create a better mechanism by which to catch the seediest.
With the murder of a young girl, all fingers point at the elusive serial killer who got away in 'Cruel and Unusual', leaving Scarpetta to determine how to catch him and use the clues left at the scene to piece it all together.
Masterful storytelling and a plot that does not give the reader the chance to breathe make for the perfect novel.Cornwell continues to build up the storylines for Scarpetta, as well as injecting a plethora of information about the characters involved.
Scarpetta's relationship with Wesley changes from professional/friendship to an affair.
Because of the change that goes on with Wesley and Scarpetta's relationship it makes Morino very upset and you start to realize that he has feelings for Scarpetta that are stronger than just friendship.
I very much missed that relationship in this story.
I enjoy the back and forth between Scarpetta and Morino and find it rather endearing the protectiveness he feels for her.
All this was missing in this book.
I am concerned what is going to happen in the next book in regard to Scarpetta and Morino's relationship.
Cornwell infamously has the most important emotional events between books (I had to keep googling to tripplecheck that yes, another guy left the stage between books, I hadn't missed a novel), and for a long time I tried to see it as her "style", but the praise is ridiculous, she's not writing incisively or chillingly, she just can't seem to write certain things?She also seems completely overreacting about Marino without actually doing anything about him - just as going to one bar makes Lucy an alcoholic, being justifiably hurt and angry and considering a new life in a small town makes Marino a liablity she and the FBI suddenly don't talk to, despite him seemingly working with them on a case.
This (like probably most of her books) was a thriller/suspense and it definitely kept my attention throughout the whole book, as I constantly read quickly to see what was going to happen next.
My only issue with it was that Cornwell seemed to put a lot of time and effort into creating the suspense and going through layers upon layers of different theories from the main characters; however, the end seemed to happen kind of quickly and easily, which was a bit of a disappointment.
I would still recommend this book and this author to anyone looking for a good suspenseful thriller and I look forward to reading more of her books as well.
I can recommend pretty much everything from #1, Postmortem, through about #9, Point of Origin.
(Some might suggest that the drama got obnoxious at an earlier point, but that's just about where I knocked off.) There are an additional 9 Scarpetta books beyond that - if you like her stuff, go for it.
She has also started at least two other series featuring different characters, but I have found that once an author has hit on a successful franchise, subsequent series will follow virtually the same path - and life's too short (IMHO.)
Scarpetta, the main character was really unlikeable, an arrogant, boring, emotionally void, judgemental kind of woman (whilst still maintaining dubiousindulgences of her own, Scarpetta has it off with a married man throughout the book without a single qualm) who big upped herself in all depts.
Cornwell seems to have many fans so maybe I'm just too picky, but I won't bother with her other books, despite this being an easy and light read, I just didn't warm to a single one of her characters (except perhaps for the dead girl) and found the writing style clunky and lacking in detail.
And did anyone notice the lack of explanation in the final pages for the sexual abuse of the girl?
kay shows some bad-ass moves as she performs (view spoiler)[ante-, peri- and postmortem bullet surgery on a perp with pete's pump-action winchester (hide spoiler)]
The book is fantastic !!! I enyoyed !!!:)
The side story in this book has to do with her niece Lucy and a break in at a top secure FBI lab.Some things that annoyed the hell out of me about this book and has turned me from liking Kay as a strong complainant female into hating her with a passion and hoping she got offed were numerous.First Kay is just a consultant on this FBI case yet she spends most of her time either in town helping to solve it or with Lucy who is accused of a crime at the FBI training academy.
Two-haiku review:Little girl murderedKay thinks serial killerThen she's in dangerInteresting bookMain plot plus sub-plot with nieceAll's not as it seems
2,5
2.5My mistake -- in my review of the previous book, I referred to the affair that didn't start until this one.
It was, however, both set up and telegraphed in the previous one, so I'm going to leave that in the review.I really hate it.
We have a guy who until now was careful about even the appearance of impropriety, and now he's cheating on his wife repeatedly, over the course of (as becomes clear in the book following), several months?
GAH!
So 3.5 for the murder and related plot, and -1 for the stupid and unbelievable affair.
I'm usually a bit of a stinge when it comes to star ratings and very rarely give out 5s.This is definitely worth a 5. I've never read this author before and very rarely read this genre. But the setting (Autumn in the US east coast mountains), the characters and the investigation absolutely spoke to me.This was very easy to read, not so easy to put down and I would recommend to anybody, particularly those that don't usually read this genre.Will be following this author going forward.
I enjoyed this. Didn't love it though. They only go to the body farm at the end think the title was misleading.3.5 stars
This is the 5th book from Cornwell's Kay Scarpetta series.This is the worst of the series that I have read so far.
Cornwell spends the first 100 pages covering medical technology at Quantico and she takes forever getting into the story.
Kay and Wesley have an affair that goes on throughout the book-whenever they can get it on they do despite Wesley being married.
Take away the massacre of the main characters and the book investigation is pretty entertaining.I hope Cornwell can resurrect her characters in the next few books because right now I am not a fan of any of them.
Patricia Cornwell has this way of writing that I just start reading and before I know it, I've read half of the book. Her books just suck you in and don't let you leave until you've finished the book. This book had so many twists and turns and so many sub-plots that I didn't know what interested me most. I really enjoyed this book and it was another great addition to the Kay Scarpetta series.
A couple of things still bug me about the series, though:Kay "sleeping with a married man", as Pete Marino throws out at her.
It was all lost on me and could be entirely hogwash for all I know, and care.I didn't care for Kate Reading's narration as there was no differentiation between the characters' voices and I couldn't tell, at times, whether it was Kay or Wesley speaking.Overall though, I enjoyed this more than I expected to, given the slow beginning, and I'm glad I've decided to keep the series on my TBR list.
Excelleny Scarpetta addition. Now a consultant for the FBI Kay works to track diwn a serial killer slaying children. Her niece is an intern at the Bureau which a number of other challenges and the web spun by the killer slowly envelopes her friends and loved ones. Great stuff.
Fantastic!
Loved it. I love how the progress of these books are going.
