https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4064936-books-v-cigarettes
Orwell muses on how much he spends on books, recollects his time working in a bookshop and on being seriously ill in a Paris hospital, considers the merits of book reviewing, the censorship of literature, patriotism and his joyless time spent as a scholarship boy at prep school.
Is there still, as Orwell said, a rarity of ‘bookish’ people?
Certainly many book reviews or book prizes can be said to be judged by those who care little for what they are reading and censorship is still in place – a disturbing amount of books are banned worldwide each year.
50), I think, this seven-essay selection published in 2008 might aim at increasing Orwell readership in a new generation in the early 2010’s.
8)As for Orwell newcomers who have never read him, I would like to recommend this cute paperback as a sort of literary hors d'oeuvre or something delightfully manageable due to his readable and witty stories in which each one you can blissfully read in one's sitting before trying reading the real thing, that is, the hardcover Essays mentioned above and eventually cannot help admiring him as one of the great writers in the 20th century.
At time of writing, there were certainly places in France where “the poor” could not even afford to die.Compared to the UK at that time, you may easily say there were room for improvement.The last essay, and the longest, is a memoir of the early schooldays.
Even the collection from my point of view capitalizes on Orwell´s many left-over essays and is a bit inconsistent, I never tire of Orwell´s writing style and wit and grant it 4 stars.
Slim book containing six essays by George Orwell. His writing is clear and concise and can certainly make you think.For example, in spending time in a Paris hospital for poor people: "I think it's better to die violently and not too old. People talk about the horrors of war, but what weapon has a man invented that even approaches in cruelty some of the commoner diseases? 'Natural death', almost by definition, means something, slow, smelly, and painful". Like I said, he makes you think.
A small collection of essays by the wonderful master of the sentence, George Orwell.
I think he's one of the great craftmen of the written word.
I can see why he's idolized by hack journalists (some of you know who I am thinking of), yet never mastered.
Since i work at a bookstore I totally tuned in to his essay about working at a bookstore.
The dust is still a problem, but unlike him I stayed at the job.
Smelling the dust and still loving the sexual beast that are books.
I loathe to know what I spend on such decadent items (meaning books).
Ça n'a pas raté: la libraire, visiblement heureuse de trouver une oreille où verser des reproches vigoureux et exhaler un courroux indigné, m'avait soumis à un long interrogatoire inquisiteur auquel je me suis prêté de mauvais gré, pour sonder mes sentiments et mes opinions sur un sujet délicat.
Elle finit par m’édifier par une longue tirade brûlante de vertu et de droiture, mais peut-être pas aussi éclairée que j'aurais souhaité pour oser y répondre franchement.
Enfin, tout ce que j'aurais su répliquer dans la langue de Molière serait devenu des pauvretés si j'avais voulu les transporter dans celle de Shakespear.
Yazarın sağdan soldan toplanmış yazılarından oluşan kimi zaman siyasi kimi zaman da anılarından yola çıkarak oluşturduğu denemeler. Birkaç küçük yazı dışında kitaplarla çok da ilgili olmayan ( sigarayla hiç ilgisiz ) adının neden böyle konduğunu anlayamadığım, Orwell'ı daha yakından tanımak için okunası...
Cigarettes, Bookshop Memories, Confessions of a Book Reviewer, The Prevention of Literature, My Country Left or Right, How The Poor Die and Such, Such Were The Joys.
I loved how personal most of these were, especially the last (Such, Such Were the Joys), which was basically a mini-biography of his childhood years.It is written with the wit and wonderful turn of phrase Orwell naturally possesses, and it is a wonderful insight into his mind.
Maybe it’s because two writers I admire writing about their childhood and not making a dog’s dinner of it, but I will definitely treasure this book.
Seven essays - all of which are interesting, insightful and readable - and it definitely saves the best until last...
One minute we're reading a wince-inducing account of the brutality of St Cyprians (Orwell's prep school) and the next this meanders into social history, philosophy and a deconstruction of the pre-WW1 class system.
When Orwell wrote his essay, he states that there were 15,000 books published annually in the UK.
Orwell states he did not resent this but could never get used to it.This book is a mere 125 pages and every page contains something interesting and enlightening.

Orwell's non- fiction has been among my favourites reading for years, and it is very good to get back into his essays.
Once I had the collected works, goodness knows where they are now, and I picked up this short collection of six essays in a London bookshop a few weeks ago.
It's a long time since I read Down and Out in Paris and London or The Road to Wigan Pier, but i still have clear images of the sorts of lives he wrote about, and the issues are alive even if the players have changed.I now want to read Christopher Hitchens on Why Orwell Matters, because I believe he does, and I know that Hitch will be acute on the subject.
Para quem é fã de Orwell, este é um livro a não perder. Ficamos a conhecer bem melhor o escritor por detrás do 1984 e do Animal Farm. Recomendo imenso!
Driven mad when friends opt films over books?
Wonder why reading is still the realm of the elite, or why Brian Tracy insists wealth production can be determined by the number of books in an entrepreneur's library?
So did Orwell...
summed up here:"...
And if our book consumption remains as low as it has been, at least let us admit that it is because reading is a less exciting pastime than going to the dogs, the pictures or the pub, and not because books, whether bought or borrowed, are too expensive."
"Eviniz mükemmellikten uzak olabilir; ama en azından korkunun hakim olduğu çevrenizdeki insanlar karşısında sürekli gardınızı almanız bir gereken bir yer değil, sevginin hakim olduğu bir yerdir." Kitabın yarısından sonra sürekli olarak bir ağlama modunda okudum kitabı. Ey George Orwell sen neler yaşamışsın öyle... :(
(3.5) bookish. Nostalgic. Readable.
Cigarettes is a collection of essays, originally published between 1936 and 1952, brought together in this one thin volume in the Penguin Great Ideas series (I intend to have all of these one day).The first essay gives the book it's title and is a quirky bit of maths with a serious message: some people don't read because they think books are too expensive, but given what else one's money is spent on, how much does reading cost compared to other leisure activities?Bookshop Memories is entertaining, wry and amusing, with a sad kick, and provides wonderful sentences about the people of London and where bluebottles die.Confessions of a Book Reviewer is a masterclass in how to construct a word-portrait of a person.
Four of these are book or writing-related, one is war-related, one recounts an incident where Orwell was in a horrifying French hospital suffering from pneumonia, and the last essay (the longest and certainly my favourite) depicted his days at a preparatory school called St Cyprian's.
Each essay was well-written and informative, and I particularly enjoyed the autobiograhical essays where Orwell used an almost story-telling voice to recount events he had experienced throughout his life, sometimes funny but most often very depressing.I can't wait to read more of Orwell's writing, particularly anything I can find about his own life.
The essay 'How the Poor Die' relays the horrors of being sick in a hospital for the poor in Paris.
This is similar to 'Down and out in Paris and London'.
The first three essays are interesting, all to do with books.
1.'Books v.
Cigarettes' asks if being a reader and book lover is an expensive business or a choice of priorities, and if people are reading less.
2. 'Bookshop Memories' looking back at his experience working in a book shop.
3.'Confessions of a Book Reviewer', this one was a bit disappointing.
This is a nice small selection of six Orwell essays.
I particularly liked 'How the poor die' and 'Such, such were the joys' though I had read it before.
These Penguin 'Great Ideas' editions are rather beautiful to look at, but there is a lot of crossover with other Penguin essay collections.
So while a book for under £5 seems like a bargain nowadays, the content is a little thinly spread.
If you enjoy Orwell and want a pretty book, then buy this one.
If you are more about the content, then maybe start with these 50 essays available for free online at  Project Gutenberg Australia
Não me recordo de ter lido algo tão humano desde há muito. Um conjunto de crônicas exímias. Uma, em particular, onde Orwell esmiuça a influência da política na literatura. Genial.
Hoş, akıcı denemelerden oluşan, bir bardak çayla arkadaş sohbeti tadında bir kitap.
Cigarettes is another fine collection of selected essays by George Orwell in the Penguin Great Ideas series, this one focusing on books, literature in harsh political regimes, patriotism, his time in a run-down hospital in France, and his memoirs of going to a private boarding school.
Cigarettes is a somewhat laborious essay where Orwell explains that working class people read fewer books and choose books over things like cigarettes, beer and gambling, not because the habit is expensive but because they’re not interested in it - contrary to their claims that it is.
I never expected to read this, or really anything by Orwell beyond Animal Farm.
This little economics exercise turned out to be pretty relevant considering the topic of the eponymous essay “Books v.
Cigarettes.” I remember my father raving about what a great essay “Such, Such Were the Joys” was when I was younger, and me nodding along all the while saying “no more Orwell…” I don’t know why I suffered this slight aversion.
Or reading about misery.
For example, I realized how much the prose of another book I was reading simultaneously annoyed me.
My already considerable respect for Orwell has increased further after reading his essays.
This is maybe not quite as brilliant as Why I Write, but it's still very good.
I vehemently agreed with the first essay (Books v Cigarettes) and felt almost unbearable sadness and empathy for Orwell as a small boy in the last one.
Incidentally, his thoughts on totalitarianism (and in particular the constant need to rewrite history in such societies) reminded me of The Noise of Time that I just read.
In reality, it's of course the other way around - Barnes echoing Orwell.
I think I must eventually read everything this guy has written.
I originally bought this because I loved the edition. In fact, I'd happily have all of the beautiful Penguin Great Ideas series.This is a collection of Orwell's essays, of which the title is just one. Most are literature-related, although the longest is delves into Orwell (or, at the time, Blair)'s time at Preparatory school.All are written faultlessly, have dated only through their content, and then only just. You won't get much more genius for your money than buying a book of Orwell essays, and this is, as I say, a beautiful edition. Highly recommended.
Τα τρία πρώτα, που αφορούσαν τα βιβλία, μού φάνηκαν τα πιο ενδιαφέροντα, άλλωστε ο τίτλος του βιβλίου ήταν αυτός που με προσέλκυσε από την αρχή.
Στα υπόλοιπα διηγήματα, ο συγγραφέας καταγράφει τις σκέψεις του για κάποια θέματα (αυτό με τον πατριωτισμό μού φάνηκε το πιο κουραστικό από όλα), ενώ αλλού μας αφηγείται προσωπικές του αναμνήσεις είτε από το νοσοκομείο, όπου είχε νοσηλευτεί κάποτε, είτε από το οικοτροφείο, όπου ήταν εσώκλειστος κατά την παιδική του ηλικία.Μού άρεσε πολύ ο τρόπος γραφής του Όργουελ (να σημειώσω εδώ πως δεν έχω διαβάσει άλλη φορά κάτι δικό του) και ειδικά το καυστικό του χιούμορ το βρήκα απολαυστικό!
Kitaplar ve Sigaralar’da, George Orwell’ın denemeleri toplanmış.
Çoğunluğu kitap üzerine olan denemeler ama yazarın çocukluğundan ya da dünyadaki siyasi gelişmelerden bahsettiği denemeler de var.
Orwell’ın ne kadar kitaba sahip olduğunu hesapladığı bölümde “Ödünç alınan ama geri verilmeyen” ibaresini görünce “Sen de mi Orwell?” dedim.
Sonradan kendisinin de birçok kitabını çevresine ödünç verdiğini ama çoğunluğunun geri gelmediğini okuyunca yazarı mazur gördüm :-)Orwell’la kitaplar üzerine birçok düşüncemizin ortak olduğunu görmek çok hoşuma gitti.
Yazar yaşasa ve biz kitaplar üzerine sohbet etsek çok iyi anlaşırmışız gibi hissettim.
Bu da zaten sevdiğim Orwell’a beni daha da yakınlaştırdı.Romanlarıyla favori yazarlarımdan biri olan George Orwell, denemeleriyle de benden tam not aldı.
Okuması çok keyifli bi kitaptı
A rather thin but excellent collection of essays containing what might well be the first text on media manipulating and rewriting of history that we now call post-truth. I was mentioning this on the dinner table and what my partner said was "Orwell has only ever written warnings"...Hard to pick a favourite but his account on what it was to work in a bookshop in Camden and the various characters pestering him was hilarious.
Part of the penguin “Great Ideas” series, it collects a number of Orwell’s essays and journalism from the post war period, around the time of the publication of animal farm.
This is quite simply a wonderful collection; it begins with an essay arguing that one spends more on smoking than on books, concluding therefore that cost cannot be given as reason why reading is an unpopular pastime and ends with a broad and illustrative account of his time at St Cyprian's, an old fashioned pre-world war one prep school.
