https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/178572.Some_Tame_Gazelle
Pym started it in her 20s and imagined herself and her sister in their 50s, unmarried and living together.
Belinda and Harriet Bede are sisters in their early 50s living together in an English village.
Harriet receives an annual proposal from an Italian Count who lives in the village.
It must also be said that the male characters are also pretty grim and it is no surprise that there are so many unmarried womenAs a comedy of manners and a satire on middle class English village life in the early twentieth century it works quite well.
Why is a man's terrible loneliness, depicted with muscular internal dialog, a moving account of the human struggle and a spinster's timid expressions of the smallness of her life a boring second-rate life of no account whatsoever?
It is precisely the timidity, the modesty, the dismissability of Pym's characters that makes them so specifically what they are, and a casual reader may find them as easy to miss as Pym's engagement with the men of the EETS in this book.* Yes, all she has to look forward to is a boiled egg alone.
**Oh, is this book written by a woman about women's concerns ALSO like Jane Austen?
He uses this time to remind Belinda that they were once in love and that perhaps he made the wrong choice in marrying Agatha, something that is on Belinda’s mind at all times and which, coming from the archdeacon, pleases her but makes her uncomfortable.Some old friends visit the archdeacon and one of them proposes to Harriet but is spurned.
She borrowed a title from Thomas Haynes Bayley."Some tame gazelle, or some gentle dove:Something to love, oh, something to love!" Its significance wasn’t clear to me at first, but as I read understood.And then Barbara Pym imagined how she and her sister might be, thirty years in the future.
Belinda was softer and meeker, more involved with her friends and neighbours, and quietly, wordlessly, loving the married archdeacon.It was lovely just to watch their world, so beautifully observed, and to realise that the sisters Bede were not unhappy with their lives.
I first read Barbara Pym 30 years ago.
It's a deep part of being human.Belinda and Harriet Bede are two middle-aged "spinsters" (not a word one hears much anymore!) who live in a small English village.
Since her college years, Belinda has been in love with the man who is now the archdeacon of her church.
Harriet occupies herself with caring for the new curates that come to their church and Belinda gardens.The book is not just a gentle bucolic tale.
Even the man she loves is not spared her judgments.Pym is one of the funniest writers I've read.
But, I will tell you that no one is better at developing the simple lives of wonderfully complex people like Barbara Pym. I hesitate to compare her to Jane Austen, as all critics do, but both of them have a way of making every day life seem so enthralling.The lives of Harriet and Belinda may not excite many.
But I find that in this simple life, one can best see the complexity that surround each decision we make.
Can a spinster every hope of getting married?
Sisters Belinda (Pym) and Harriet (Pym's sister Hilary) are confirmed spinsters sharing a house and a life filled with gardening, church activities and endless speculation about other people's comings and goings.
Here the bishop shares his African experience with the parishioners, singing and playing native instruments: 'Imagine yourselves taking part in a Mbawawa wedding'.'I do not feel myself equal to that', whispered Edith to Belinda.
And yet perhaps the Mbawawa did have voices like that and it was wrong to feel one wanted to laugh.After this ordeal , it is time for the next instrument, the characteristic Hmwoq:Everyone looked with interest at the curiously shaped object which had had now appeared on the screen.
I really enjoy Barbara Pym's quiet, peppery humor. I wish she were better known. I thoroughly approve of the way this book ends.
Some tame gazelle, or some gentle dove: Something to love, oh, something to love!  ---Thomas Haynes BaylyTwo reasonably content spinster sisters live together in a small town. Harriet "dotes" on young curates, having them over for meals and taking them presents, while our main character Belinda has spent thirty years gently nursing a flame for her college boyfriend, long since married and a clergyman in the same town.
From the opening line of this novel you are safely and deliciously in Pym Country writes Mavis Cheek in her introduction. That's exactly where I've been during this read.
Yes, Ms Pym's stories are usually set in what now seems like an almost vanished world of genteel Anglo-Catholicism in middle class England of the 1950s that many readers will not be able to relate to.
But as is always the case with Barbara Pym, the principal characters unwittingly reveal themselves in a series of acutely accurate vignettes that are redolent of the quietly desperate and pathetic nature of the foibles and eccentricities that constitute the major part of almost all of our lives.
I urge you to read it (and Barbara Pym's other novels, most of which are as good as this one).
This is her first novel and my second Barbara Pym novel.
Barbara Pym writes of English village life and the main characters here are two spinster sisters whose chief form of entertainment seems to be refusing marriage proposals.
Both sisters have a very romanticized view of marriage and Belinda thinks she would have made a much more patient, understanding wife to the horrible archdeacon than the wife he chose.
Overall, I enjoyed this break from 2018 and chuckled at how exhausting this gossipy village life left them all.
Each of the sisters is preoccupied by local clergy, Harriet by ministering to a series of pale young curates who live in lodgings nearby and for whom she knits socks and makes apple jelly, and Belinda for the pompous self-important Archdeacon Henry Hoccleve who she first knew thirty years earlier.Belinda, having loved the Archdeacon when she was twenty and not having found anyone to replace him since, had naturally got into the habit of loving him, though with the years her passion had mellowed into a comfortable feeling, more like the cosiness of a winter evening by the fire than the uncertain rapture of a spring morning.Belinda’s rapturous loyalty to Henry and her dislike of his wife Agatha is a full time occupation.
Oh this is my third Barbara Pym and she's fast becoming a complete delight. The literary equivalent of sinking your teeth into a delicious afternoon tea. This was wickedly funny, spinsters, vicars, the dilemmas of knitting socks. No-one captures the absurdities of English village life like Pym.
SOME TAME GAZELLE. (1950). Barbara Pym. *****. This was Ms. Pym’s first novel, and clearly showed the talent that was to flow from her pen in succeeding years. The title comes from a poem by Thomas Haynes Bayly: Some tame gazelle, or some gentle dove: Somethng to love, oh, something to love!The gazelle (or dove) referred to takes on the form of a curate or curates in the village where two sisters, now approaching spinsterhood, live together and spend their lives helping their neighbors and, espe
The title comes from a poem by Thomas Haynes Bayly:		Some tame gazelle, or some gentle dove:		Somethng to love, oh, something to love!The gazelle (or dove) referred to takes on the form of a curate or curates in the village where two sisters, now approaching spinsterhood, live together and spend their lives helping their neighbors and, especially, the leaders of the local church.
The sisters are Belinda and Harriet Bede – precursors of Pym’s succession of “excellent women” that she features in most of her later books.
I have just re-read this after about 20 years and fell in love with all the characters once again. How well she understood people and their foibles, and especially their dreams. Those dreams are often unrealized, and one sees eventually that it is probably just as the characters themselves wish.
belinda describes her love for the archdeacon as being "like a warm, comfortable garment, bedsocks, perhaps, or even woollen combinations," and that's how i ended up feeling about the book and everyone in it.
and the archdeacon thinks about how annoying belinda's affection could be in the past, but he still loves her.
this is by far the longest goodreads review i've written, and i think it's because this book kept surprising me, and i'm still figuring out how and why.am definitely reading more of pym.
It's not my typical fare and I don't know if I would've read it if it hadn't been for my club.
I have never read Pride and Prejudice, but I imagine this is a similar kind of tale.
It was slow going at first and I didn't eagerly jump to read it like I normally do, but the story certainly grew on me.
I am glad that I read this tale, but I'm not sure how soon I'll return to this genre.interesting quotes:"We really ought to love one another, she thought warmly, it was a pity it was often so difficult." (p.
In the 80's the Pym novels were re-issued, and the author received very belated adulation for her work.
At that time, I binged on Pym and now I am re-reading some of the novels for perhaps the third time.For me, the fascination is in comparing the lives of her educated, middle-class women with ours today.
In some of the other books her "excellent women" work in non-profit associations or semi-academic positions.
There is definite humor in the coddling of an assembly line of young curates, but some of Pym's other books are more satisfying to me and might be more suited to contemporary taste.
Published in 1950, it's a wonderful if somewhat bittersweet tale of two sisters, Belinda and Harriet single women in a time when women were expected to marry or live in a very coded way.
Belinda has been holding a torch for Henry, the archdeacon for 30 years since he chose to marry Agatha.
I was less impressed with all the poetry quotes but they do add to the overall effect when used, I just don't love them as much as Belinda or Henry.
I will definitely return to Pym's world.
It's an amusing, yet very unpredictable world to visit.
This was my first Pym, although she was recommended to me years ago on Amazon; I picked up a few ancient paperback editions from my local used book store over the years and put them on the "to-read" shelf.
I know Pym's been compared to Austen, and I see that, but I also think, as a NYT reviewer says on the cover of my edition, ".
It's an amazing balancing act, and I find myself smiling and chuckling as I read - delicious!
Some reviewers on Amazon say this book was nothing compared to her later works, which I look forward to tracking down and savoring.
I love the many references in this book to stopping everything one is doing and having tea around 4pm.
In this little English village, the two 40-something sisters have a lovely life of inviting the clergy and anyone new who visits over for dinner.
I couldn't get over how a few times during the story, a man who stop over to propose to one of the sisters after only being in her acquaintance once or twice.
I guess having a helpmate or partner in life was more important to a man than a woman he was passionate about.
Barbara Pym is not for everyone...Her main characters are always maiden ladies of a certain age living in small villages in England sometime after WWII.
They are engaged in fastidious (yet hilarious) tasks usually involving the parsonage and a young, unsuspecting curate who will need to eat their boiled chicken dinners before he leaves for another post.
They dissect all encounters with food, neighbors, men, clothing, dust, and the garden.
There is the upmost respect for librarians and anyone who works at the university.
They turn down suitors and life goes on.
Amazing how enjoyable a well written book can be, even if nothing spectacular happens, the setting is some English village or other, and the protagonists are on the surface rather boring people, spinsters and clergymen mostly past their prime. But I'm not the only one to like Barbara Pym's offerings, so she must have done something right. More like this, please!!!
Wonderful book, wonderful author. I don't know whether to mourn that I have missed reading these books for the past years, or rejoice because I have so many hours of enjoyment ahead reading more of Pym's books.
(This being her first). Jane Austen meets the W.I. Deceptively twee; actually very satirical. More English than a malfunctioning hotel shower or a broken laundry drying rack. Perfect Trump Era escapism.
Barbara Pym observed Life keenly, writing novels of relationships, comedies of manners, played out around her.
Some Tame Gazelle is exactly that; a novel whose exquisitely portrayed principle characters and perfectly crafted plotlines produces no great surprises; just a certain vaguely unsettling, worrisome, nagging inner sixth sense that one has already met such recognisable scenes before, in real life.
Pym is the mistress of the deadpan line; just one example (of very many) being, “The Archdeacon preached a very fine sermon on Sunday, about the Judgement Day. We were all very much impressed by it.
In it she features characters based on people within her own circle of friends and acquaintances but imagines how their lives could be twenty or thirty years' time.The two 'gazelles' are the middle-aged spinster sisters Belinda and Harriet Bede.
Who would exchange a comfortable life of spinsterhood in a country parish which always had its pale curate to be cherished, for the unknown trials of matrimony?During the course of the book, both sisters reject proposals which would have taken them into the unknown world of marriage.
I took a few days to gather my thoughts before writing this review -- I feel like I have so much to say, and was worried I couldn't find the words.
Certainly these are among the most difficult type of books to write -- and Some Tame Gazelle is a stellar example of the genre.
The things she's feeling matter to her -- even if it's something as non-eventful as deciding not to knit her beloved Archdeacon a sweater, and then being relieved by that decision.Small daily emotions are hard to pin down, and can be boring in a narrative.

