https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12279.Molloy_Malone_Dies_The_Unnamable
Through a monologue by Moran, we are told about how the days are spent in search, how Moran seems to have killed a man (perhaps the same policeman, we don’t know) and how he also comes across a man, who from the appearance seems Molloy.
Someone who has witnessed the coming and going (birth and death) of the likes of Molloys and Malones?
But it certainly is coming after a death; death perhaps of Malone or Molloy, we don’t know that.
Molloy passes and then Malone passes too, both unaware of some other presence, which witnesses their passing and seems to be always there, a consciousness turned into a voice, perhaps waiting for its birth too.
I am now a Beckett convert.
in the self-referential The Unnameable paved the pomo path).
On the whole, I prefer not to make the same remarks as countless millions of Beckett lovers have made before, so I will limit this to ecstatic superlatives.
Molloy: hilarious, surreal, fucking brilliant prose, infinitely re-readable, fabulous.
Malone Dies: darker, more baffling, hilarious, fucking brilliant prose, infinitely re-readable.
The Unnameable: maddening, insane, fucking brilliant prose, enough to leave one squirming on the floor in all manner of priapic fits of pleasure and pain.
He just couldn't understand why a book like Molloy should exist.Beckett's art is often discussed as a formal reaction to Joyce and other modernists.
And while death can never be experienced in the first person, the trilogy pushes about as far in that direction as can possibly be done.(Perhaps I should add that if you don't think Molloy's funny it's unlikely the next two books will cheer you up much.
No matter.I could simply leave this as my review and summary of Beckett’s trilogy of nothingness, but in the spirit of Beckett himself, “I’ll go on.” Wow. Just….
Parts of The Unnamable at the end drift into what I call “literature of the black speech,” which like Leautreamont and Kafka, end up like being some evil incantation in which reading is reciting; there’s no meaning because the lines themselves embody the meaning, which here is nothingness or an attempt to achieve nothingness.
Beckett mastered these guys in his first book; it truly is heroic then, albeit in a brutal kind of way, to choose and continually attempt the antithesis of what most writers only dream about achieving.
Fiziksel varoluşun canı cehenneme artık sözden müteşekkil bir varoluşa merhaba! Ters yüz etti beni Beckett o ayrı ama bir sorunum var; Beckett'ın mizahına ve absürd karakterlerine alışanlar sonrasında ne yapıyorlar öğrenebilir miyim? ^^
Getting through this loosely-related trilogy of short novels was one of the hardest reading experiences I've ever had, and I'm not exactly sure if I enjoyed it, or even knew what Beckett was getting at half the time.
Sometimes I would get in the flow (mostly during Molloy and the first parts of Malone Dies), but other times I would just be reading words without understanding meaning.And honestly, I'm not sure I understood much in the way of meaning in general.
Reading Beckett is totally like a different experience.
I have been reading a lot and a couple of weeks back my eyes would just cry for not reason at all.
The doctor and my wife both said that I am abusing my eyes by working (I am a workaholic) and reading (I am a bookaholic).
Beckett is like eating in a French restaurant if you are an Asian.
You will feel some kind of class by paying a lot for a food that filled not your tummy but your other senses.That's Beckett for you.
But once I began Molloy and realized I was feeling it, it shot to the top of my "most brilliant and personally influential reads" list.
I actually cried when I was reading it because I thought it was so great, and I think about it pretty much every day.
I don't think I'm as cynical or dry as SB and his antiheroes, but for some reason i really embrace them.
Malone Dies and the Unnameable do get a bit more difficult, but the way I see it, it's just a relief to have some extra material to decompress with after the brilliance of Molloy.
Above all, neither can stop narrating: the narration, the telling of their own story, the use of words to circumscribe, to connect, and to unify: language, that body of concepts that defines the world and allows us our intersubjective relations, is the final thing maintaining their being.
Like everything else, it is crumbling.The second of the trilogy begins at the existential level where Molloy ends, telling a tale consisting solely of the ramblings of a dying man lying alone in a room.
There are also the tantalizing references to an austere and removed God and angelic messengers that send the narrating entities on missions for which the purposes are inscrutable, the means a further fragmentation of the physical from the mental, and the end result a more circuitous, tortured route for consciousness to end up back at the starting point, no further enlightened (indeed, even more confused) and stimulating the endless counter-measures by the naked soul to repel the nausea—and quiet the abhorrence—for existence that the pointless eternity of the now engenders.Definitely requires more than one reading, perhaps even reversing the order of the novels to experience Molloy's emergence from the echo chambers of the Unnamable, the Beckettian ontic proceeding from the ontological.
This book is bigger than me. I still plan on devoting a week to going back over it and give it my best shot at doing it some justice. A seance invoking the spirit of Beckett is not out of the question.
Crazy. There's really nothing else like this. Just read the first section of Molloy in one uninterrupted sitting if it is possible.
In the far distance, receding all the time, I could just make out the tiny shapes of overlooked blogging commitments I had passed somewhere along the way.My commitment, for example, to re-read Beckett's could-be-called-a-Trilogy with blogging friend Anthony, who has by this late date posted his thoughts on both the first and second books.
And I knew this swamp a little, having risked my life in it, cautiously, on several occasions, at a period of my life richer in illusions than the one I am trying to patch together here, I mean richer in certain illusions, in others poorer.This re-read of Molloy, hurried and fragmented as it was, lived up to all my memories.
The voices (and they seem more like voices then characters) that narrate these books are those of wretches occupying some dying twilight world of their own dwindling consciousness, faced with their own immanent dissolution.
You could recognize one of Beckett's sentences in a heartbeat.
These three novels are books of sentences.
Yet they are also weirdly affirming in spite of their darkness, you get the sense that these voices are forever circling the void, merely perpetuating themselves by some act of sheer will that is as futile as it is inevitable.
In ogni caso, non solo la missione di Moran è destinata a fallire, ma lo è anche la sua narrazione che si impantana nei preparativi, nel viaggio di avvicinamento alla contea in cui Molloy vive e in episodi che in maniera sinistra ricalcano le vicende di Molloy stesso, tanto che Moran e Molloy sembrano simbolicamente avvicinarsi, se non addirittura sovrapporsi e confondersi l'uno con l'altro, finché non ci si domanda se non potrebbero essere la stessa persona.Se Molloy ci ha offerto un ritratto grottesco della condizione umana, riuscendo spesso a divertirci e a strapparci parecchie risate*, ridicolizzando qualsiasi nostra velleità, cogliendo in pratica il ridicolo che c'è nella tragedia, dall'altra parte Moran ci ha rivelato il lato più disgustoso e inaccettabile della nostra follia e stupidità (seppure, a tratti, anche lui divertendo); e Beckett, da parte sua, ha probabilmente scritto un capolavoro, un'opera d'arte che è un fare le capriole nel nulla, tessere una tela inesistente, per piantare poi il tutto in basso, molto in basso."Che volete, il gas mi esce dal culo in qualsiasi circostanza, sono quindi proprio obbligato ad alludervi ogni tanto, malgrado la ripugnanza che mi ispira.
If you have read Waiting for Godot, Beckett’s famous play, you will recognize his style of writing in these three novels.Beckett was the most famous of the existential playwrights/writers that comprised the Theatre of the Absurd genre.
I don’t think I have given away any spoilers here as the stories are all existential and a bit absurd and open to a fair amount of interpretation.In the first novel, Molloy, we see the ruminating of what seems to be an old man confined to his room.
In the second novel, Malone Dies, a man is confined to an asylum of some type, is taken with some other patients on a day trip to an island.
I read this on a long train trip from Chicago to Salt Lake City and back several years ago.
When I finished, I felt that I had read a masterpiece of literature (I had!), but the experience was so painful that I only gave it four stars.
Now, after I skim it again, the images and experience comes back in a flood, but with only a modicum of the pain.
It's an incredible, exhilirating feeling, tinged with a very slight pinch.
What an incredible piece of art.
It's time to fill in that fifth star and consider a re-read.
It was worth all the pain.
We all know what it feels like to lack the proper words to express something: some of my more intense experiences with psychedelics have definitely fit under this label, as have, on a more mundane level, those times when I just can't say what I want to.
So let me, if you don't mind, make a quick jump to the point: while Beckett's trilogy may at first appear to be abstracted beyond the level of meaning anything, but ends up revealing something essential about the human experience.
Each of these novels deserves its own review but there are two highly-distracting birds flying back and forth around the Columbus airport right now, and anyway the plain fact is that Beckett's human or post-human or pre-human comedy wants to be read as a single, prolonged descent.
My guess is that, like many experimenters, Beckett needed to reach his end before he could go back and synthesize it into the less punishing Molloy, which really is an incredibly beautiful book, and maybe the one novel of B's that I can take utterly seriously.
Malone Dies is interesting sentence to sentences (Beckett is always interesting sentence to sentence).
"Nothing is more real than nothing."These novels are different from Beckett's shorts, which I personally liked more.
Also the narrator in all three is physically challenged due to different reasons (injury, old age and deformity) and also probably mentally challenged.
The novels ride completely on back of Beckett's unusual narrative style - completely absurd, often self-contradictory, explaining very obvious activities in a great detail and a very sad, pessimistic and dark humor - some of these things are common to most of Beckett I have read.I have reviewed them separately too but here are some examples of prose to be expected:Self contraditory:"A little dog followed him, a pomeranian I think, but I don't think so.""I found my bicycle (I didn't know I had one) in the same place I must have left it."Dark humor:"I don’t wash, but I don’t get dirty.
(actually, i'm not reading it, but re-reading it) This trilogy is really the heart of Beckett's writing. Nearly everything he ever wrote is coded in these three novels. You can see the seeds of all the plays and the short prose in here - but in this case, it's expressed in a longer narrative, where he takes his time playing and cloying with the ideas of narrative, tearing those ideas apart as he goes along. I think this is his greatest achievement, and I'm a huge fan of the plays and the other writings.
This is your brain on drugs...http://www.popsugar.com/love/photo-ga...This is my brain on Beckett...Plate from “Essai d’Anatomie” produced by Gautier D’Agoty in 1745, ParisUpon reading the last pages, sentences, words...this is Beckett."Lifeblood" by Diana Debord, photography
“When a man in a forest thinks he is going forward in a straight line, in reality he is going in a circle, I did my best to go in a circle, hoping to go in a straight line.”A life of an individual is an incessant running on the spot – wherever one goes there’s no destination.The greatest trilogy by by Samuel Beckett - the wisdom is hidden under the mask of feeblemindedness and senility.
Stream of consciousness series with less plot and more depression toward its conclusion. I wanted to read this because as a younger man I really liked Waiting for Godot.
The gap is a double sign of both failure and success: the gap points to the inability of closure, but allows the movement necessary for this reflection.Here's another quote, this time from Žižek.
“The universe is...a positively charged void, and then particular things appear when the balance of the void is disturbed...It means something went terribly wrong.
That what we call creation is a cosmic imbalance, cosmic catastrophe, that things exist by mistake.
Love is not ‘I love you all’, love means I pick out something, it's a structure of imbalance...in this quite formal sense, love is evil” (Slavoj Žižek in the film “Žižek!”).
i wanted to like it, blurbs on the copy sounded promising, i have enjoyed his plays, i was ready to do without the usual furnishings of fiction, you know, plot, character, place.
maybe i am just not ready to find the humor said to be embedded in the long, long, long, pointlessness of these books.
i tried to like it, but since then i have learned to be more careful interpreting blurbs, after all, they want you to buy the book…maybe it is more a book to study, after you get your secret agent decoder ring.
the reason all the philosophers/ academics are obsessed with beckett is because he perfectly describes their pathetic, obsessive, plotless existence. this was the most boring set of novels i have ever read in my life. i hate novels about people's thoughts, this was 100 times worse. i tried so fucking hard to finish the unnamable but felt like pinning my tongue to a light fixture and hanging myself would have been a better idea._______in other words, beckett did too good of a job with his stories
Like getting drunk on words in a vacuum.
In his trilogy, Molloy, Malone Dies, The Unnamable, Samuel Beckett explores the frailty of existence.
Samuel BeckettIn the first novel, the unreliable narrator recounts his decline but through the monologue, the reader learns not so much his past as declining state of mind.
But here, as in Molloy, the unreliable narrator conveys not so much the events as his delusion and decline.
The narrator claims to have created Molloy, Malone and other characters in Samuel Beckett's novels, and like them, he also struggles to communicate reality and follows the same path toward non-existence.
The stories aren't as good as the ones in Molloy.Finally, in The Unnamable, character, plot, setting, and any reason to read the book other than to say you've read it, are all MIA.
At this point, if not earlier, it has become apparent that some at least of the traditional elements of a novel are there for a good reason and shouldn't have been thrown out.
