https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35411583-surprise-me
I know many readers hate on the light and fluffy crowd, but I say why can't we read something simply for all the feels?
(It's creepy because those are the exact statistics of our couple in the book; obviously you wouldn't know this yet DUH CHELSEA!) Maybe this set up made it possible for me to get lost in the book, but at 450+ pages (which is neither a light nor fluffy count last I checked) I was expecting a struggle.
I didn't even care that the story wasn't wholly realistic or plausible; I had to know what would happen dang it!Also, for a light and fluffy, this had a substantial ending.
I really like the premise of Surprise Me--rather than the typical Kinsella premise of a single girl trying to get her life together and in doing so ultimately finds love, we have a married couple worried that their marriage has gone stale.
While the premise was fun, Surprise Me didn’t quite have the magic of some of Kinsella’s other books.After 10 years of marriage, Sylvie and Dan learn that they could potentially be married for another 68 years.
Don’t get me wrong, I love Sophie Kinsella novels; they often serve as my break from reality.
soMe of Sylvie and her BFF Tilda‘s antics in trying to come up with “surprises“ left me laughing so hard I had tears coming down my face(I think my kids thought I had gone mad).....Along with fabulous female main characters and tear inducing laughter....Miss Kinsella always has wonderful female relationships and almost too good to be true men in her books....Tilda was a truly fabulous BFF and Dan really had the patience of a saint....The only “surprising“ part of this book is it had a bit of a more serious tone to it in parts...
in the end I thought this part of the book was done well and tied all the other pieces in the book together....Absolutely recommend for a fun, fluffy, laugh out loud read...
This is a well-done novel that starts off with a light, chick-lit tone.
Sometimes you just need a book that has a humorous take on life and love.
For a time, this does seem like a frothy novel about keeping the spark alive in marriage before it becomes a deeper look at relationships between family, husbands and wives, work, and yourself.
It’s when this novel goes deeper that I really enjoyed it.
This book is touching and funny and fun.
Thanks so much to NetGalley and Random House for the opportunity to review this novel.
(Bad) pun very much intended.I feel like if this is your first ever Sophie Kinsella read, you should pick another one of her stories.
I would point you towards her Confessions of a Shopaholic series first so you become acquainted with her humour and style.Because this book is crazy even to fans of Sophie Kinsella, so I can’t begin to imagine what people who know nothing about this author will think.
Surprises don’t have to be about material new objects/pets, but well Sylvie and Dan have a skewed understanding of what beautiful surprises are.And yet, I did like the surprises.
Sophie Kinsella didn’t exactly catch me unawares by writing this book.
4 silly, but surprisingly serious, stars to Surprise Me! ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ Sometimes I think I subsisted on Sophie Kinsella books in my 20s. I looked forward to a Becky Shopaholic book like Christmas. It’s hard for me to believe I used to be quite the shopper then. I also have fond memories of reading Kinsella books at the beach or on vacation. I read The Undomestic Goddess while cruising past Sardinia! Her books are perfect for vacations because they are easy to pick up and put down, and well, they are j
I also have fond memories of reading Kinsella books at the beach or on vacation.
Her books are perfect for vacations because they are easy to pick up and put down, and well, they are just plain engaging, fun, and easy reading.
So when I saw Surprise Me was coming out, I was onboard, even though I’m not on a vacation currently and haven’t taken one in years!
They come together and decide to keep their marriage fresh with lots of fun and quirky surprises.
SURPRISE ME definitely surprised me and I kind of liked the idea of Project Surprise Me too except for one of the surprises that Dan gave to Sylvie in the book which had me totally creeped right out!SURPRISE ME by SOPHIE KINSELLA is a charming, warm, humorous and a feel-good story that even had a touch of mystery to the storyline and a surprising twist.SOPHIE KINSELLA delivers an engaging, lighthearted and entertaining read here with well-developed and likeable characters.
Would recommend!Published: February 13, 2018Thank you so much to my fellow Traveling Sisters for another wonderful reading experience!Thank you so much to NetGalley, Random House, and Sophie Kinsella for the opportunity to read an advanced copy of this book in exchange for a review!
Surprise Me is a standalone novel written by the fabulous Sophie Kinsella.
Surprise Me contains a bit of mysterious/emotional suspense, a few jaw-dropping revelations, family drama, both lighthearted and deep perspectives on marriage, and Kinsella's classic humor and shenanigans.
Thank you Sophie Kinsella for surprising me!
Check it out!My favorite quote:"Love is finding one person infinitely fascinating."Thank you to the following for permitting me access to an advance reader's copy (ARC) of Surprise Me. This generosity did not impact my honesty when rating/reviewing.Source: NetGalleyAuthor: Sophie KinsellaPublisher: Random House Publishing Group/The Dial PressPub Date: February 13, 2018
Sylvie and Dan have adorable twin girls and are about to celebrate "ten years" together.
They have a joyful marriage, but Dan has had some issues with Sylvie's father.They find out that they could potentially have 68 more blissful years together!
The second half of the book deals with some more depth and brings out insecurities and second guessing that goes with it.This was an entertaining and enjoyable book about marriage and making the journey exciting and fun.I had a fun time reading this one with The Traveling Sisters Book Club group here on Goodreads!Thanks to Random House Publishing / Netgalley for my ARC to review.
Listened to this which I always recommend with all of Sophie's books!I really wanted to fall in love with this book but it fell a little short for me. The first half was annoying, honestly and I had a hard time connecting with the characters. The second half was much better and I really loved it.Overall it was a fun, quick read much like all of Kinsella's other books and I did enjoy it!Solo video review coming soon!
Last year I read another book by Sophie Kinsella - My Not So Perfect Life -- and was thrilled to find the perfect “palate cleanser”.
This year’s offering was also a palate cleanser but this one ended up being just a bit too fluffy and disjointed for me.
There were things I liked, but it I didn’t take to the protagonist in the same way I have with some of Kinsella’s other books.Sylvie is happily married to Dan. They have 5 year old twin girls.
Many of the surprises were so hilarious, I found myself laughing out loud to myself.
I loved the cast of characters that surrounded Sylvie, especially her boss, Mrs. Kendrick.
I’m American, but I love reading books by British authors and books that take place there.
This book, like all of Kinsella’s books, had that quaint British charm.
I liked seeing the evolution of both Sylvie and her marriage to Dan. This is totally random, but when I was reading this, my mind kept drifting to something I learned in a philosophy class about Simone de Beauvoir’s idea of idolatrous love.
Turn off your inner critic and just have fun with it.I confess I had a slight problem with the premise: a young couple panics when their doctor tells them they will likely live to be over 100, which would mean another 68 years together.
(True story: As I'm writing this review a news reporter is on TV interviewing a couple who have been married for 73 years!
)But Ok, the couple decides to spice things up by planning surprises for one another.
The last half of the book turns a little more serious with lessons to be learned about married life, and the ending is as you would expect from this genre.
I always enjoy reading Sophie Kinsella books and was delighted to receive an advanced copy of Surprise Me. I really enjoyed this book about marriage, trust and family. I liked the characters especially Sylvie and her twin daughters. There were quite a few laugh out loud moments. A feel good book that will make you smile. I would like to thank NetGalley and Random House Publishing for my e-copy in exchange for an honest review.
Where’s the joy in our lives?” He looks around the kitchen with a questing gaze, as though it might be in a jar labeled joy, next to turmeric.Even though everything is perfectly fine and they have happy lives, now they have to deal with the concept that they’re going to have to be with one another for SO LONG.
And I’m sure they get over it and get back to being perfectly happy with their kids and white picket fence but I didn’t really care if they worked it out or not.
At times the seriousness got a little prickly for us in the thorny bushes with our likable and loved characters.
I have not yet read My Not So Perfect Life but I have now bumped it up my list to read soon.Surprise Me is a bit different from other books by Sophie Kinsella's girl meets boy storyline and in this one, she explores a marriage.
Sophie Kinsella does such a fantastic job of creating some likable, colorful and eccentric characters here.
She does a great job developing an interesting and quirky character with Sylvie who we loved following along within the coulee.
Warm, affecting, and extremely entertaining!Surprise Me is a lighthearted journey into the lives of married couple Sylvie and Dan who have it all, beautiful girls, successful careers, and a rock-solid marriage until the suggestion of another 68 years of marriage sends them into a tailspin that makes them question their goals, dreams, and each other.The writing is smooth and effortless.
And the plot is an engaging, moving tale bursting with witty banter, embarrassing situations, awkward moments, hilarious hijinks, and sweet romance.Surprise Me is, ultimately, a story about marriage, secrets, commitment, family, introspection, and enduring love.
So, these two set up a plan with surprises involved in which they will continue to add zest and spice to their marriage.Those surprises initially turn out to be fun, silly things that often made one laugh.
However, the surprises soon turn out to be more serious and as the story continues, a scandal makes them realize that what they thought they knew about one another might just be an illusion.
The book also had a rather interesting idea behind the story when a long time married couple goes for their check up and passes with flying colors with the doctor explaining just how long a life they should have together.Sylvie and Dan are just hitting their ten year anniversary from the time that they first met when they get the news they just may have sixty eight more years of marriage.
After a bit of a freak out the couple wonders how they will keep their marriage fresh and exciting for such a long time and decides to begin surprising each other to shake things up.Of course the surprises and long life diagnosis are only the beginning to Sylvie and Dan’s story and there is much more involved as the book goes on.
Ehh I think this plot just wasn't a good fit for me personally.
It's hard to sympathize with people who are so dang healthy that they can assume they're just guaranteed another 68 years of life to wonder WHAT WILL THEY DO.
Oh my goodness.
Most of the plot was definitely rich white people problems, but the main character's narration itself actually didn't annoy me.
There were definitely some sweet moments!And I still liked Sophie Kinsella's bubbly, upbeat writing!
So this wasn't my favorite one of her books, but it's also not my least favorite.
I think people who realllllly love all of her books will enjoy this one too!
4 Surprised stars It is true that I love Sophie Kinsella's books, I have read almost all of them.Eve

3.5 starsWas I surprised about how much I enjoyed Sophie Kinsella's new novel Surprise Me?
When it comes to  Sophie Kinsella, the only surprise for me is that I haven't joined the millions of readers who love the Shopaholic series.
So, when this title showed up I couldn't wait to start it.
So when their Dr tells them they can each expect to live until 100 it should be music to their ears, but it puts a whole new spin on "till death do us part" and somehow freaks them both out.
I think the story and these characters cover such a large network that many could relate with different things that the characters are going through.
One of the best parts of Sophie Kinsella's writing that also occurred in this novel is the ability to relate.
Sophie Kinsella does humour amazingly well and I'm happy to see that she included it so appropriately in this novel.
After reading this novel, I'm getting the itch to reread all of Sophie Kinsella's novels because they are just so well done and thoroughly entertaining.
Mini review: I received this e-arc via Netgalley and the publisher in exchange for an honest review.DNFDespite the not-so great synopsis I wanted to read this anyways.
After all it’s a Kinsella book.
The main characters were supremely dumb.
Her 20 year characters (in other books) have more sense then the husband and wife in this book.
And even if it is true I still don’t buy it.
But no these two instead stress about how they’ll manage their marriage.
Personally speaking I felt that they had insecurities about their marriage before the appointment.
Don’t recommend.
Honestly just read her other books.
It’s much better than this.
*Romance week!Would you believe that this is my first book by author Sophie Kinsella?!
Sylvie and Dan Winter, both aged thirty-two, visit a new doctor for their physical.
Surprises." But as Sylvie's best friend and next-door neighbor Tilda tells her, "Surprises have a bad habit of going wrong."And things do start going wrong: Sylvie's happy life starts to unravel.
Is their happy marriage a sham?
She learns the correctness of the Latin proverb "vincit qui se vincit: she conquers who conquers herself."Thank you to NetGalley, the author and publisher for the opportunity to read an arc of this fun new book.
*3.5 stars 🌟The thing about reading a Sophie Kinsella book is that you know your going to have a fun reading experience.
So they decide that if they are going to have 68 years together, they should have surprises for each other so their marriage doesn’t get stale.
The thing about surprises, though, is that you may get more than you bargained for.
Even though I enjoyed moments of the story, I didn’t live it as much as I do other Kinsella books.*Thank you to the publisher and Netgalley for an ARC in exchange for an honest review.
The prologue is a tease about Sylvie finding out some terrible secret about her husband, Dan. The first chapter starts with "Five weeks earlier".
But both have internalized "caring" to mean "hiding things that are painful or hard".
This is the third "surprise" where she's followed the exact same pattern and I'm bored and a little disgusted.I've been ready for a turn around, or even just a hint of something deeper, but both Sylvie and Dan are superficial cowards living stunted emotional lives and I'm still three weeks away from the prologue's hinted discovery/turning point!
I thoroughly enjoyed this this book!Surprisinly, this is the first time I have read Sophie Kinsella’s work and I was well pleased with it! It was fun and had quirky characters that I grew to love. This story goes deeper than that and it faces what is deep behind face value and trust issues one faces. This novel was full of unexpected surprises and was truly heartfelt. I am glad that I picked up this book and finished it within a few sittings!
Surprise Me is a more serious offering to the usual fare of Sophie Kinsella.
Sylive and Dan, happily married, realise how many possible years of marriage they have left – almost 70 if the results of their latest medicals stand true!
They need to mix things up and decide to surprise each other once in a while to make things a little more exciting.
I enjoyed Sylvie, she was realistic and I really felt like I got to know her, as I did with Dan. Recommended read, which was still easy to read.
Sylivie's prickly mother was a good addition, as was Mrs Kendrick.
Good narration with the audio copy.
