https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/132913.Reconstruction
There are tides in the affairs of men, and in this book we see both a high tide of civil rights and equality and then see it ebb away in a flood of weariness and exhaustion from White supporters in the face of White violence, voter intimidation, and terrorism, in the Southern states of the USA, which ended in the 'redemption ' of those states, Democratic political control, Jim Crow and the situation that continued down to the era of the 50s and 60s when the tide finally began to turn.
And as Foner notes, even the attempt was revolutionary: “Alone among the nations that abolished slavery in the nineteenth century, the United States, within a few years of emancipation, clothed its former slaves with citizenship rights equal to those of whites."Phase IV: Industrialism in the North and Southern White Resistance (Chapters 9-10)The staggering social and labor changes ushered in under Radical Reconstruction threatened what was left of plantation agriculture.
The further I get into this book, the more I realize that we have virtually no understanding as a culture of one of the most important periods in American history.
Halfway through this surprisingly clear and meticulously researched book, a window is opening into my understanding of how the character of the United States changed during Reconstruction from a republic focused on States' Rights to the centralized juggernaut which controls the majority of political affairs to this day.
Eric Foner is a first-rate historian, and I highly recommend this book for anyone who wants to know more about 19th-century American politics.
MASTERFUL HISTORY OF RECONSTRUCTION Foners excellent book is a masterfull historical synthesis of the period known as Reconstruction after the American Civil War (1861-65).The book is extremely readable, comprehensive and full of intelligent analysis of the social, cultural, racial and economic forces of the era amply illustrated with pertinent quotes from all those involved.
The situation after the end of the civil war when the defeated south was occupied by the Union Army is one that I knew little about before reading this book, but that proved to be no obstacle to engaging with Foners well written book.He pictures the position of the freed Slaves, the Confederate south and the Union North with great skill; not simplifying or glossing over nuances but presenting a full picture of all the forces, pressures and ideologies that clashed within that era.
In Foner's view the two goals of the Reconstruction were: (1) to create a society in the former Confederate States where Afro-Americans would enjoy full political and civic rights; and (2) to create a strong Southern Republican party that would be able to hold office once the Northern armies would withdraw from the South.
Grant was finished, his successor Rutherford Hayes withdrew the Northern Army leaving the Black population of the South at the mercy of the white majority and relegating the Republican part to the fringes of Southern politics for almost a century.The basic challenge for the Radical Republicans who favoured full rights for Afro-Americans was that there was near unanimous opposition from Southern Whites while Northern Whites were profoundly divided.
I found this an excellent book on an important time in American history that still impacts race equality and relations to this day.
It is a book designed to appeal to real history buffs though.
It is incredibly comprehensive with almost half of the total pages of the book devoted to will researched footnotes.
More like a text book or encyclopedia entry on the subject than a casual read.
However, this book in detail completes my education in learning that what I was taught then was Southern/Confederate revisionist BS history.
Reconstruction would end and the white South would begin the vileness Jim Crow Era in which a people who had been enslaved--but were set free, could vote, and hold office as citizens in the Republic--were disenfranchised, segregated, and improvised.Eric Foner covers an experiment that was only bad because it had failed not because it was attempted.
“Rarely,” Foner notes, “has a community invested so many hopes in politics as did blacks during Radical Reconstruction.” It was an aspiration tragically undone, in Foner’s analysis, by the interplay of racism and class conflict, and by the naiveté with which Northern supporters, who were crucial to the Reconstruction experiment, met both.
Ultimately the clock ran out when the class conflict of northern society amid the upheavals of industrialization led to waning Republican commitment to the interests of black laborers.
This book is dense and long, but so important. If we don't know the tragic history of Reconstruction, we cannot understand this country and we are bound to keep making mistakes.
I picked up the audiobook because that is what is most likely to get done quickly.
The audiobook is the first edition.
The graft is largely assumed to be only on the Republican side, but it was on all sides.
But the Democrats were not really interested in putting an end to graft but getting into power.And there was reluctance to enforce Black voting right, especially after the rise of the KKK.
But this was very helpful and gave me a number of areas to explore further.My 2000 word review is on my blog at http://bookwi.se/reconstruction/
Vitally important account of a largely-forgotten and/or misunderstood period of American history, as important as the Civil War itself.
This will be the only book you’ll ever need to read on the Reconstruction, though unless you are writing your thesis on it, it’s not clear why you’d really want to (and if you are writing your thesis on it, just stop, this book already includes whatever you are writing).While the Reconstruction was ultimately a terrible failure, the author is able to highlight what could have been and the opportunities the freedmen started to enjoy until states decided to ignore the 14th and 15th amendments, the federal government became more concerned with the economy in the North, and the cyclical shift in politics came back around.
All of these meant something different to the lives of blacks; Foner goes into great detail both what each meant to freedmen (ex-slaves) and freeborn alike.[return][return]Possibly the single most important event that shaped Reconstruction happened right at the beginning--the assassination of Lincoln, which elevated Andrew Johnson to the Presidency in 1865.
For in-depth understanding of the political and social history of a critical period, this book is a must own and must read.
Now, because of Foner's work and the Civil Rights Movement, we teach the period as a positive story of human liberation, revolutionary change and although flawed a time of public education for all black and white, public investment in infrastructure, the birth of the African-American church, the beginnings of the traditionally Black colleges, the first multi-racial democracy in human history and a period where the US government actually tried to uphold and extend the ideals of our revolution for all MEN (not women).What is amazing about Foner's book is that it took so long to be written, oh wait it was written before, by WEB Dubois under the title Black Reconstruction in the 1930's!
But, contrary to the reviewer mentioned above and others, "centrist" southern whites could not have established Redeemer governments without Northern Republican acquiescence in lightening the hand of Reconstruction.Foner provides an in-depth and hard-hitting social history of this movement.
Perhaps many whites today don't like to face the fact that we can't just blame Southern white Democrats for the failure of Reconstruction.
This is a subject that is of great importance, and unfortunately often neglected for the sexiness of the Civil War. This work of Foner's is the place to go, if one wishes to read a comprehensive survey of Reconstruction.
As with all history books of this richness it pushed the reader beyond its own subject matter.
It serves the reader in better understanding the Civil War, the 20th Century and its social movements, as well as current times, particular in how power is (ab)used, and various failings of 'democracy' in the United States.
Particularly interesting to me was "watching" the shaping of elements that still define much of modern America, such as the black church, and/or that would lead to important events later on, such as the disenfranchisement of black voters and the onset of segregation, events which would culminate in and lead to the fight for civil rights just a little less than a hundred years later.
Foner, as I learned in his book, was certainly right in labeling Reconstruction as "America's unfinished revolution," as it is a struggle for the United States to simultaneously overcome and come to terms with its past that continues even today, 150 years later.
I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in discovering the roots of the United States as it is today.
Really well written and full of stuff I didn't know. I just plain hate Andrew Johnson, Lincoln's successor. Warning: reading this book causes actual pain. People in this country have suffered too much, for the stupidest reasons.
The book's focus on the intricacies of the competing and affected economics was phenomenal.
Much of the American History I have read does much less with economics as a force for history.
Of course racism plays a major role in this era and Foner did not hold any punches nor excessively vilify.
Let's be honest, we still have pervasive and institutionalized racism.Governments define the rules of economics.
I wish I could monitor one of his classes as I sure it would by a joy for anyone obsessed with American History.
This book's importance is shown in its highly detailed focus on a subject that results from, but is far overshadowed in scholarly study by its immediate predecessor, the Civil War. Eric Foner places the start of Reconstruction a few years earlier than traditional histories, during 1863, when the Emancipation Proclamation started the reorganization of conquered Southern states away from a slave holding society.
He continues with post-war Presidential and Congressional Reconstruction, which existed to deal with the two great post-war issues: governing a nation after the abolition of slavery and preserving national unity.Foner, a professor of history at Columbia University (and, I believe, the foremost academic expert on the subject of Reconstruction), has produced a book which has exhaustive information on post-Civil War society.
"Between 1862 and 1872, the government awarded over 100 million acres of land and millions of dollars in direct aid to support railroad construction, mostly to help finance the transcontinental lines chartered during and after the Civil War. Blacks could not help noting the contrast between such largesse and the failure to provide the freedmen with land.
Why, asked Texas freedman Anthony Wayne, 'whilst Congress appropriated land by the million acres to pet railroad schemes...
did they not aid poor Anthony and his people starving and in rags?' No one ever offered an answer." Magnificent book.
Along with McPherson's Battle Cry of Freedom, this is fundamental reading.
Every battle, every general, seemingly every aspect of the war is covered by multiple volumes.
Students of Reconstruction, the period of monumental social, economic, and political change that followed as a direct result of that war, are far harder to find.
Reconstruction, the most volatile and transformative periods of our history, a period of both idealistic hopes and savage violence, with repercussions still affecting us today, is too often ignored.
It is dense with information, covering the social, economic, and political aspects of Reconstruction, not just in the Southern states that were directly affected, but also covering the simultaneous, related changes that transformed the whole country forever.
A detailed study of Reconstruction it is a well documented history.
This narrative of Reconstruction begins in 1863.
It is an important history, a period often falsely represented and remembered by those who want to believe fantasy or cast a point of view at odds with the truth.
It is a sad truth and no one can learn the reality of the times and not see in it the roots of our current divisions and discord.
Every American needs to better understand this period -- there is also a short history by Eric Foner of about half the length of this book.
Great book. A hard read but a complete picture of the era. Mr. Foner spent 9 years on this enormous project and it shows. I could give this book 4 stars based on the difficulty of reading through it, but the book is such an authoritative and exhaustive resource that I gave it 5 stars out of respect for the historian. One additional comment is that I liked Mr. Foner's several references to concerns on the rights of Native Americans and to the ongoing Woman's Suffragette movement - it is good to see consistency!
This book is a magnificent work.
It not only tells, in clear, patient prose, this horrible story, but it powerfully delivers the message of that story's relevance to our world.
Reconstruction may have been our nation's only chance to reckon with its slavery-based origins, and to fully make an accounting for our sins.
Foner explains, in excruciating detail, how and why these efforts failed, but also the ways in which they succeeded, in each State.Every American should have an understanding of Reconstruction, and there is no better way to get that understanding than to read this essential, heartbreaking book.
Book so nice I want to mark it “read” twice. Amazing.
Foner writes, “Accelerating the emergence of an American industrial bourgeoisie, the war tied the fortunes of this class to the Republican Party and the national state.” Their participation in the purchase of war bonds, while no doubt helping to preserve the Union, meant, “most bonds were held by wealthy individuals and financial institutions, who reaped the windfall from interest paid in gold at a time when depreciating paper money was employed for all other transactions.” (21-22) On the other hand, for the northern workers who were the supposed bedrock of the free labor system, “the war was an economic disaster, as a flood of paper money and the regressive tax system combined to produce a massive decline in real income.” (30)This tremendous accumulation of economic and political power posed a direct threat to the free labor ideology, which held that labor and capital had identical interests.
good book. didn't care for the ending though.
It is powerful and timely in so many ways, connecting our Revolutionary past and its devil like deal with slavery to the ultimate and necessary Civil War. Foner makes Reconstruction to be the almost necessary result of wartime and immediate post war focus on the rights of African Americans and the greater integration of the rebelmstatesminto the American union.
The tragedy is that African American and thus American politics and culture was damaged, in some ways permanently by the experience.
Some history books tell a story and are intended for a popular audience.
Other history books are written for more scholarly purposes.
The thing that makes the book excellent, it's detail, is also the thing that makes it a challenge.
The author starts with a topic, like the kinds of laws passed during Reconstruction.
The author then moves on to another topic and the process repeats itself.I don't mean to be critical.
The book is filled with useful information, and makes an excellent resource for an historian to refer to.
I can only recommend it to people who love history and have a high interest in the subject matter.
