https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/63832.Blue_Highways
Since then, I've read quite a few recollections of random journeys...and I can safely say that Blue Highways is the worst of them.
It would also help if William Least Heat-Moon was a likable person; someone we could get behind and enjoy this journey with.
My last complaint is about how often Moon wants his readers to know how horrible modern life, big cities, and big highways are.
And of course, in contrast, how much better are those blue highways and the little towns.
I would love to be able to drive around and explore for the amount of time Moon did.
I feel awfully guilty not taking the time to give back to this book what it gave to me; its carefully shaped and caressed words of observation and wisdom.
It deserves much more, but, like Heat-Moon, I am on my own journey right now, writing my own inner book.
Heat-Moon encounters people and places in America clinging to fast-disappearing ways and attitudes of life.
As a document of this transition taking place three decades ago, the book is invaluable.
In the same way that some people read the Bible almost exclusively, I think, were I to have only one book to re-read over and over on a desert island, this could easily be that book.
It just got better and better.So when I found William Heat-Moon's book, ' Blue Highways' on GR, I was mentally and emotionally packing my bags for another imaginary trip through a country of dreams.
This alone, should convince the readers of history and travel genres to try it.In 2012 a new book was published: 
The author and his son revisited all the places and compiled a photographic memory of all the people and the towns.A video of an interview with William Least Heat-Moon, as well as some photographic footage of the above-mentioned book is available on 
A rendere possibile questo nuovo punto di vista sono le persone che incontra, i racconti delle loro vite, vite di uomini e donne ordinari ma straordinari al contempo: sono proprio loro i protagonisti che fanno di questo lungo diario on the road qualcosa di unico e forse insuperato nel suo genere."Per chi è in grado di restare sveglio e aperto, ogni errore è una possibilità d'imbattersi in qualcosa di nuovo: errare per il mondo e riflettere fanno parte dello stesso processo.
Viceversa, chi smette di esplorare sbaglia più che in ogni altro momento".L’ho letto con piacere, ma troppo velocemente, dovendolo terminare entro il 20 giugno per una sfida libresca.
the classic hippie travel tale of a shrinking rural america, far from feeling dated blue highways seems to become more and more relevant with each passing generation.
heat-moon (a professor at my college, the university of missouri, in the '80s when i was a student) traveled the country in the 1970s taking only the "blue highways" of his antique road map -- the non-interstate back roads, that is.
what he found was a cultural america rapidly disappearing, being replaced with the ka-chings of a million mcdonald's and wal-marts even then.
an important book, one worth reading, that happens to be wickedly funny at points too.
Henry's grave in Asheville, North Carolina, finding, accidentally, Thomas Wolfe's grave as well; I've been dog-sledding in Alaska with my mom and her sister; I once got stranded at the Heartbreak Hotel in Memphis, Tennessee and probably questionably got a ride back to my dad's office by a young shuttle driver named Sam; I once woke up in the car with my family in Utah on my oldest brother's birthday, with the sun coming up behind us, making the cliffside wall in front of us turn pink; I've had a variety of different kinds of fish fries in Wisconsin with my grandparents over the years.I've wanted to read this book for a long time.
Il ritorno è sempre più corto dell'andata, e l'andata non dura mai abbastanza. E poi si torna a casa. Con la voglia di ripartire di nuovo.
Author Bill Trogden/Least Heat-Moon travels across America in the 1980s, travelling via the highways marked in blue on the map.
This is a really fascinating read, giving you a look at bits and pieces of America from North to South and East to West.
The travelogue is skillfully interspersed with Trogden's own personal struggles: he decides to take the trip because his marriage and job are in the pits, and as he travels America he comes to grips with his own inner world as well.
Best piece of travel writing I've ever read, and one of the best things I read in college.
l'america periferica delle strade blu: paesi quasi fantasma, deserto, praterie, riserve indiane. microstorie, volti, incontri rapidi; tutto con la voglia di conoscere il proprio paese e un furgone come casa. bagaglio leggero e occhio attento; da partire subito per lo stesso viaggio e per mille altri.
Third Reading
William is from my home state, traveled the outside of our country on only back roads in his beat up van, collecting experiences from random Americans.
He works in a lot of history and either has the best ear for remembering dialogue or had a tape recorder well concealed.
This is told factually, but fresh with interior dialogue, as he works his readings of Black Elk Speaks, Leaves of Grass and Lewis and Clark's account of their adventure.
Being distracted by personal matters, this worked for me even though I took a long time to read it.
I hate making a review on this book and keep changing my mind about doing so, because I am not giving it 4 stars at least.
Or to me, even Steinbeck's "Travels with Charlie." Or maybe I want more adventure than either of these anymore, such as "Kon-Tiki, "Paddle to the Amazon", and "Into a Desert Place." I can understand some people giving it 5 stars, and I would say that he deserved it.
I really liked his quotes from Black Elk, so I ordered "Black Elk Speaks" --a book I should have read years ago and maybe have.
In discussing reading this book with other people, one person pointed out that what makes for interesting discovery-road-trip writings are when the character is forced to set out (I'm thinking the early parts of The Glass Castle), rather than "Look at me!
-and it's the journey not the destination!"And I think that's the root of the issue with BH.
But even here, he talks about The Pine Barrens, and it makes me yearn to be reading McPhee instead.I read a recent review of Heat-Moon's new book, Road to Quoz, that mentioned how it's a shame to see how cynical he'd gotten, that he'd lost his whimsy.
Actually, I first read this book about 15 years ago, but I was sick, it was there, and one thing leads to another..The first time I read this, it was a great road trip, full of interesting places to visit and cool people to talk to and relics of a disappearing America.
It's still a great book, but the extra layer of the personal journey makes the entire journey far more interesting.
At a rough time in life, a man heads out looking for answers, and to see what's out there.
but what an experience!This is still my favorite of the various 'road trip' books that I've read.
Another travelog.
A little slow and quite serious.
Yet I learned a few things and found myself consulting goodgle maps to locate some of the more interesting small towns he encountered.
But it took me a long time to finish it.
I like travelogs, but I prefer Bill Bryson's books because I can breeze through them as if I were reading a 'beach book' with interesting information and a bunch of belly laughs to boot.
No one does it better than Bryson.
Phyllis if you haven't read 'A walk in the woods' please put that one of Bryson's on your 'gotta read it' list.
I read this such a long time ago when it was first published. I am old enough to remember the days BEFORE the Interstates when the Blue Highways were THE Highways. I remember this being one of those books that I thought changed my life in one of those very middle class ways. Maybe I will try to search it out again one day and see if my lingering fondness in my memory is warranted. Would it be wrong to read a book like this as an ebook?
How disappointed I was, on driving across the country on the interstates (by necessity) that my trip was nothing like this one. To take a trip on blue highways still remains an ambition of mine.R
Something like that.That morning, before all the news started hitting the fan, Eddie Short Leaf, who worked a bottomland section of the Missouri River and plowed snow off campus sidewalks, told me if the deep cold didn't break soon the trees would freeze straight through and explode.
It was a question of dignity.The result: on March 19, the last night of winter, I again lay awake in the tangled bed, this time doubting the madness of just walking out on things, doubting the whole plan that would begin at daybreak—to set out on a long (equivalent to half the circumference of the earth), circular trip over the back roads of the United States.
“The night had been full of dreams moving though my sleep like schools of ocean fish that dart this way, turn suddenly another way, and...the currents bending and enfolding me as the sea does fronds of eelgrass.”That’s one example of why I should have read this years ago, as I intended.And the vocabulary!
The Hill Country.
Ferry across Lake Michigan.
Ferry Lake Champlain to Vermont.
The White Mountains.
Then turn west, and home.He discovered the Hopi symbol for the renewal of life, and left it obvious to the reader it is shaped much the same as his trip.Come here.
He wanted to see America before it all got paved over with shopping malls and all the mom-and-pops were run out of town and sometimes it was too late.I spent quite a bit of time reading this book.
The entire time I'm reading this, I'm thinking "He sleeps in his van all across the US?
Sometimes reading it was relaxing, other times it was disturbing.At the end, I wanted him to find what he was looking for, but as he said he didn't know if he had learned what he wanted to know because he didn't know what he wanted to know.
Here is a summary of the book so far: Least-Moon travels the back roads in his Wagoneer to a small town in the middle of nowhere, such as "Nameless, Tennessee." Then, you wade through much detailed description of the man-made and natural structures.
Next, he meets a local, asking about the history of the town.
A long, very specific re-telling of some minor player in American history ensues, ending with "Then, the government [or national chain] came in and took all the land.
Things ain't like the old ways." This scenario is repeated throughout the book.
I admit I'm giving up on page 75.
Yes! Finally finished it!Like the book, reading it is an adventure! That's all I can really say or else I'll accidentally spoil something. X)
Since Least Heat-Moon is a bit of a local celebrity, I picked this up during my PhD program and finally finished it. I appreciate the prose that propels the story forward and allows me to savor the details of each character and community encountered. This is an epic in the style of the travel journals of the 18th century. It's a must-read, even for those who never choose to read nonfiction for fun (aka: me).
Least Heat Moon tells interesting stories and meets some fabulous people in this journey, but he tends to be long-winded.After losing his wife and his job, and figuring he has nothing holding him back, William Least Heat Moon turns his van into a somewhat camper and decides to just drive.
While he encounters racism in different parts of the United States, most of the ones he writes about are in this region.He meets some very interesting people and his stories of them were some of my favorite parts of the book.
Writing about himself is just a whole different style for him.I liked a good half of the book I would say.
The idea held for a portion of the book...until I read all those verbatim conversations.
Ridiculing the convictions of others does not necessarily make the mocker look better, or more mature--it just makes your issues more evident.I did find it interesting that the books written by Native Americans that I have read do not feel the need to use the PC appellative to speak of themselves and others like them; the term "Indian" is used, or in this case, the author repeatedly uses the "unacceptable" term "red man" to refer to himself and others of his ethnic background.
His interior journey is one of searching for “a place where change doesn’t mean ruin and where time and deeds and men connect.” He’s already a man who lives in between things.
He lives in some third culture land between the two but doesn’t embrace either one fully.He seems to interview random people, drive through random towns and absorb random historical info as a way of rooting himself in this country.
He only inspects those of other people.The tone of the book is lonely in a way that makes it difficult for me to breathe.
★★★Un'opera titanica che racconta il viaggio "circolare" intrapreso da William Least Heat-Moon dopo che la sua vita lavorativa e matrimoniale era andata in pezzi.Alla lunga il libro stanca un po', anche le descrizioni verso le ultime 100 pagine si appesantiscono e a tratti diventano veri e propri elenchi, tuttavia lascia è un'opera che lascia il segno.Quella che potrebbe sembrare una semplice cronaca biografica di viaggio, si rivela invece una sorta di diario di viaggio dove si alternano descriz

William Least-Heat Moon, writes of a journey taken away from the "interstates" of the human experience.
Least-Heat Moon's poetic descriptions of landscape and mindscape are equaled only by his marvelous ability to capture the varied dialects of America.
Like any good travelogue, it endures, from honest look the author takes at himself and where his life is going— to pondering the big universal questions.
And though there are no universal answers, this journey deserved the large audience that has embraced it and, by so doing, perhaps have asked themselves the same questions.
The Good: A 13,000 mile, three month journey using U.S. and State Routes (and on a rare occasion, the interstate).
Least Heat Moon experiences a vivid collection of people, personalities and locations on his journey.
His descriptions of the people he meets are fantastic, and he captures their regional linguistic quirks perfectly.
It's interesting to see some of the places he describes in 1978 on Google StreetView in 2011.The Bad: He made this journey after losing his job as an English Professor and his wife leaving him.
There are times when I felt he was blunt with people when he should have been polite.
I guess I just love the idea of it.Driving around the country using back highways - “blue highways” on maps, rather than the interstates drawn in red - would be a spectacular thing to do.
Living out of your vehicle, or even camping where you could - also awesome.This journey, though, or perhaps just the retelling of it, is a bit monotonous for me.
I’ll keep up with it until it’s due back at the library, but then I’ll return it and just daydream of making a similar journey of my own, rather than reading about someone else’s.
It may be one of those “you had to be there” things.
