https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/438452.The_Long_Ships
He sports a mane of red hair and a fiery temper and is at times is referred to as Red Orm. He is the third son which would be a problem leaving him what seems an insurmountable distance from his father’s inheritance, but given the nature of the Viking life span he is only a descending axe blade, a wreck at sea, or a well placed sword thrust away from being the heir.
There is romance; in fact, Orm converts to Christianity as part of a plot to see the love of his life Ylva, the daughter of King Harald Blue-Tooth.
At the end of the dark tenth century , Vikings and their ancient customs were changing rapidly, the bold men, sea pirates and land raiders didn't recognize it, that was a fatal mistake, the harsh climate of Norway, Sweden and Denmark, even distant Iceland, slowly becoming nations did not make illiterate peasants there wealthy, just the opposite, much easier to rob, than working on poor farms, scratching a living in the unpredictable cold weather, an unproductive soil.
Before that, though, seeing as how I’m foaming over with excitement and appreciation, I have multiple people to thank.⊕ First, to the author: I know that you’re dead, but believe you must be sitting at the right hand of Odin, smiling that another reader has recognized your magnificent talent for stories, your impressive capacity for research and your sure way with words.
⊕ To my lovely, level-headed wife who may be a bit prejudiced against Norsemen (and, for that matter, frat boys): Your initial reluctance to believe that a story about Vikings in the late 10th century could be good made me realize that I’d have to work hard to make my case.
It's an adventure story written in the style of an Icelandic saga. I listened to an audio version read by Michael Page. I'm not thrilled with the cover art on either it or the paperback. But if like Jordi Arkö' lithographs for it.The Long Ships2017 HIGHBRIDGE ENGLISH(UNABRIDGED) 20H 14Mby Frans G. Bengtsson, Michael Meyerread by Michael Page
So, there I went the following day to admire the pieces, and the explanations, an the rune stones, and the reconstructions of those long ships, and the wonderful chart showing the Viking invasions to the Umayyad’s Andalusia.I just hope the way my reading and my traveling weave together, just like a Viking or a Muslim cloth.
Brilliant comic novel about life in Viking Sweden.
My favorite bit is the sequence with Orm's first captain, who has a run of bad luck and ends up being captured and sold into slavery.
The overseer knows he used to be a big guy and takes special delight in tormenting him, but the former captain waits for his chance.
He's immediately run through with three spears, but has time for some last words.
There is hardly any novel I know which is so simply enjoyable.
(view spoiler)[Many women decide to have as much sex as possible before the world ends as they don't think that it would be permitted in heaven.
(hide spoiler)]But Christians or not, Vikings will be Vikings, and they continue to enjoy a good fight and the odd bit of revenge.
If my brain is still working after I have lost my head, I shall stick it into the ground.” (hide spoiler)] GR friend, Manny, mentions a very funny incident: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...There are great characters and some history, but it is the humour that I enjoyed most.
here a few examples of poetry from the book:"Mulled ale for the frozen man,And mulled ale for the weary:For mulled ale is the body's friendAnd makes the sick heart merry."***"I heard WordOf bellied sailcloth,Creak of oars,And gold in Eastland.Then I smelledA smell remembered:Salt of sprayAnd black-pitched boat's keel."***and a word of advice from an Irish clown : "A wise man, once he is past fifty, does not befuddle his senses with strong drink, nor make violent love in the cool spring night, nor dance on his hands"***The book deals also with the rise of Christianity in the Northern kingdoms, and I believe the author did a great job of balancing his atheist inclinations and a sharp wit exposing the follies of the more zealous priests with the respect shown for the good works, the honest faith and the tolerant spirit of the true christians, exemplified by father Willibald.
A five hundred page novel about Vikings set in the year 1000?
Bengtsson, I think, realized that this could be a problem for modern audiences, so he gives us a relatively honorable and 'good' Viking to follow around.
But needless to say, when you're dealing with a five hundred page novel about Vikings set in the year 1000, you start out a little skeptical maybe.
I mean, maybe a certain type of chick.
I'm thinking a Renaissance Faire chick or one who enjoys role playing games.
I think the so-called universal appeal of this novel is somewhat overstated.
What a fun book! Bengtsson's sparse prose style works well with his dry and understated humor.
There followed a time of plenty, with fine rye harvests and great herring catches, so that most people were well contented; but there were some who thought that the crops were tardy, and they went a-viking in Ireland and England, where fortune smiled on their wars; and many of them stayed there.(The Long Ships, p.
Now, imagine that you read this imaginary review and were so amazed that you decided to read the book.
Stop imagining how awesome this book will be and go read it!
This book is so awesome my reviewing powers actually failed!
The book follows Orm as he travels far and wide, makes lifelong friendships (and a few enemies), fights battles on land and at sea, accumulates wealth, finds love, and eventually makes his way back home and settles down to a quiet family life...or so he thinks, because his adventures aren't over.Enormously popular in Sweden since its publication during the Second World War, it deserves to be more widely known in the States because so many people would love it if they read it.
I only just heard of it recently, myself, and I'm sure glad I did, because since I read it I'll always fondly recall Red Orm and his friends Toke and Father Willibald.
There is no interior monologue in this novel. It's all on the outside. And even so when I think how to describe my feeling about this book, the words that come to mind are "what a lark! what a plunge!" The prose is one fresh breeze of a story after another. I loved it the way I loved Star Wars circa 1977: it allowed me to enter a world completely unlike the one I'm living in, and to know with confidence that there was going to be a happy ending.
Here there be vikings!This is (relatively) recently back in print in English, and the new edition has a forward by Michael Chabon, in which he goes on about it like a maniac.
After the world has an epic novel about Red Orm, the hypochondriac viking, what more does it need?
It is a novel where 99% of it is plot, Orm and company go gallivanting around the map of Europe c.
1000 AD, and periodically return home to participate in the ever-changing alliances and animosities of viking life in Scandinavia.
I also might run away from home and join a viking crew, I haven't decided yet.
I hate violence, historical fiction makes me throw up, I stopped reading adventure books when I was twelve and Viking gods bored me to tears when I was going through my pagan gods stage in primary school and - WOW....you've given me The Long Ships for my Birthday.
And no, even though I adore knitting, really, this is so much better than that amazing pattern book I was admiring the other day.
It's even better than that text book on computer humour you got me last year.
Yes, good point, I can't really say that until I've read the book on computer humour, but you read it and so I heard a lot about it.
One was Joszef von Baky's Baron von Munchhausen, and the other was Marcel Carné's great Children of Paradise.)The Long Ships takes place all over the known Viking world, with the exception of Iceland, Greenland, and the struggling Vinland colony.
Its hero, Red Orm Tostesson, sails to France, Spain (where he serves in the guard of the Moorish leader Almansur), Ireland, England, Denmark, Sweden, and even Russia.
The tale takes place in that strange period just before and after the year 1000 A.D. Christians were predicting the end of the world, which, of course, did not happen, but Red Orm himself converts to Christianity, as does most of his household, and he actively tries to convert other local Asatru-worshipers in his part of Southern Sweden.
Orm - a Viking that goes a-viking, has many adventures, learns much, has great luck (overall), and tries out a few different religions along the way.Orm Tostesson (aka Red Orm) is a wonderfully developed character that we follow throughout his life: from the licking of a blade as a baby, to the coddling of his mother, to abduction, enslavement, many battles, and eventually having his own children and the subsequent adventures that a true Viking chieftain would expect to have when they have acquired much, including a growing beautiful family.
This is a fast paced adventure that seems to provide a true feel for the Viking era.
It's about the fate of the Viking Röde Orm and his adventures in far away lands and at home.
It took a little while before I got used to the language, but after the first couple of hours (out of 17) I ceased to notice.
The book was first published in the 1940's and the Swedish used had not been modernized for the edition I listened to.
With time I found that the archaic language fit a story set around the year 1000 perfectly.
I will definitely miss Röde Orm and his merry men and am sorry to be finishing this book, I would gladly have had more.
Written in 3rd-person Viking, THE LONG SHIPS gives a more favorable view of the Norsemen, especially Orm Tostesson, who travels widely and sees the World, such as it was in the 10th century A.D. Author Frans G.
It is strange that we Northmen, who know this and are more skillful seamen than other men, sit at home as much as we do, when we have the whole world to plunder.""Perhaps," said Orm, "some men prefer to grow old ashore rather than to risk encountering that surest of all cures for age that seafarers sometimes meet with.""I smell many odors," said Blackhair in a distressed voice, "but think none of them good.""That is because you are unaccustomed to them and know no better," replied Orm.
A rollicking Viking novel. The story follows the intrepid Red Orm from his youth through to maturity as a husband, father and warrior of renown.This lengthy novel is action packed with wonderful descriptions of Viking culture and customs. A surprisingly humorous novel in parts, great fun to read. Loved the female characters here, especially Asa the mother of Red Orm.
Along the way, he meets many of the great men of his time (far too conveniently at times, but hey), converts to Islam, converts back to paganism, converts to Christianity, consumes a lot of beer and pork, and makes good use of his sword.It strikes me about halfway in that this really is a Western novel set in the Viking age.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
I know it sounds extremely simple like that and I find that's the beauty of this book; being an old-fashioned, fun adventure that gives you good feelings.
While vikings went around with axes and plundering ships, they still got on each other's asses with rude little poems and sharp little comments and I kept having good laughs at that.
Something felt really free about it, like these people were just having a good time and and even when some of them died they were still fulfilled and went thought everything with the best possible outlook on life.
51. The Long Ships by Frans Gunnar Bengtssontranslation: from Swedish Michael Leverson Meyerintroduction: Michael Chabonpublished:  — 1941 - Röde Orm 1: Sjöfarare i västerled  — 1945 - Röde Orm: Hemma och i österled — 1955 - translated and combined. — 2010 - (crappy) introductionformat: 509 page paperbackacquired: Octoberread: Nov 23 - Dec 3rating: 4This is fun. A viking adventure story that explores the remarkable world of 1000 AD. It's never too serious, and yet always interesting in a kind of
A viking adventure story that explores the remarkable world of 1000 AD.
If you think you might like it, then I recommend it highly, and if you think you couldn't care less about Vikings and wanton pillaging, I think you still might like the tough little hero at the center this world, and the way he experiences it.Negative side note: I was really annoyed by the introduction by Michael Chabon.
Positive side note: I had my librarything.com group in mind when I chose this (Club Read), and particularly libarything user rebeccanyc, who recently passed away in RL.
------------I'm about halfway through The Long Ships which is a romance (not in the sense of genre) in that it paints an exciting, adventurous picture of the Vikings.
There's lots of fighting, rape and pillage, 'a-viking we go', but alongside the casual violence it's full of insouciant humour.
This is what they used to call a rollicking good read, with action and adventure and humour.
I’m interested in the picture of Christian campaign for converts among the Scandinavian peoples, and the various methods used, including ‘get them drunk and baptise them’!
I think it would make an excellent adventure film.
The Long Ships is a rousing success because it accomplishes the primary purpose of a work of literature: it tells an enjoyable story.
The book lets you join Red Orm and his many compatriots as they go a-viking from Sweden to Spain, having adventures and winning both riches and fame in the bargain, and it’s just a fun time all around.The key to why this book is enjoyable, I think, is its variety.
As such, and given the almost episodic nature of Orm’s adventures, this seems like a book that could almost work as a bedtime story.
Rather, Bengtsson set out to write an enjoyable adventure story about Vikings.
THE LONG SHIPS. (1955). Frans G. Bengtsson. ****. Get ready for a couple of late-night readings when you first pick up this book. This edition comes with an introduction by Michael Chabon, who admits reading it for a total of four times. He also claims to know four other people who read it and also enjoyed it. Based on this small sample, five out of five, he blieves that this book will please everyone in the world. Maybe. I liked it, but I don’t think it’s for everyone. It’s a historical novel f
It’s a historical novel full of action and adventure, set during the times of the Viking incursions – mostly around 911 A.D. It’s the story of Red Orm, who, as a boy was abducted from his Danish home by marauding Vikings and forced to become one of their slave rowers on their ships.
There’s always lots of action that accompanies Red as he travels the known world of the Vikings, but this is not just an action-adventure story.
It’s really a boy’s adventure book told for grownups.
If you’re up for a good old-fashioned read, I recommend you give this book a try.
This must be the "granddaddy" of Viking novels by Low or Cornwell. Written in the style of the old sagas, this is the story of 'Red Orm' and his voyages -- to Spain, England, and to the land of the Patzinaks to retrieve a treasure of gold. This book had everything: adventure, humor, romance...
It's probably a good thing this edition doesn't have an image of the cover yet, as it was released in conjunction with the film adaptation and thusly has a hideous cover with dated illustrations of clean-shaven dudes in tunics waving around swords while garish 60s text screams an advertisement--not for the book of course, but for the movie.
That there are two good-looking characters and at one point they get rained on.
He quickly becomes good at the work and meets his best friend Toke and they sail around the world meeting historical figures, fighting in battles and doing stuff like hunting the mythical "Bulgar gold".
A classic of the historical fiction genre and a fun read.This tenth century saga retells the adventures of Orm Tosteson (Red Orm) and his Norse merry men, going a’viking abroad, converting to Christianity and eventually settling down in the border lands with his wife Ylva.
At Gröning, life proceeded tranquilly.Some things never change, here some of Orm’s advice for marital bliss:It was a strange peculiarity of Orm’s that he never birched his wife; even when a great anger came over him, he restrained his temper, so that nothing more came of it than an overturned table or a broken door.
