https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69629.The_Judas_Goat
Can Spenser and Hawk stop gang of terrorists and earn their reward?The Judas Goat had the most violence of any Spenser story yet.
Spenser got shot in the ass, for God's sake!The best part of this book, outside of the frequent gunfights, is the relationship between Spenser and Hawk.
I normally like when Spenser cooks but I don't need to know how tough the veal is after he and Hawk have gunned some bastards down!So The Judas Goat was pretty good but not my favorite Spenser so far.
I don't think Interpol would ever let Spenser and Hawk back into Europe after the blood bath they cause overseas in this one.Hugh Dixon is a wealthy American businessman who had a wife and two kids until they were the random victims of a terrorist bombing in London.
Dixon is crippled, his family is killed, and he’s got revenge on his mind so he hires Spenser to capture or kill the nine terrorists identified at the scene of the attack.
But, since Parker is a master technician, there is still enough sharp wit, deft description, and mayhem—with a little sex and moralizing thrown in for good measure—to make your reading experience worthwhile.Spenser is hired by the extraordinarily wealthy Hugh Dixon as an instrument of revenge.
Seeing them work together for the first time is both interesting and instructive.But much of the book seems little more than an excuse to write off a cool two week vacation as a novelist's business expense, as Hawk and Spenser jet from London, to Copenhagen, to Amsterdam, and then to Montreal for the Olympics.
Spenser goes on a working holiday to Europe and the Olympics.
This fifth episode in Parker's famous Spenser detective series keeps the ball rolling, but rolls it in a different direction.
If I were to guess, I'd say Parker probably had taken a vacation to Europe and wanted to incorporate it into his books somehow.
He managed and the result is fun.
I'm surprised to hear myself say that about The Judas Goat, because the topic/Spenser's target is a group of militant racists and the less of those in my life the better.
I generally don't even want to read about them.
But I suppose reading about Spenser kicking their butts is fun!
The relationship between Spenser and Susan is already showing signs of becoming alarmingly saccharine, but has not yet become nearly as obnoxious as it would be in later books.
Hawk is a bit rougher and more menacing than the character would later become.The book opens with a scene strongly reminiscent of Philip Marlowe's arrival at the Sternwood mansion at the opening of The Big Sleep.
It's fun watching Spenser and Hawk at work and cringing at the relationship between Spenser and Susan.
This is not one of the better books in the series, but those who enjoy Spenser's adventures will not want to miss it.
Wow, reviews have put me right off this.Lazy author? Jaunt to London, and this book is the excuse?Skipping to #6
Spenser and Hawk do Europe on a dubious mission of revenge. They leave quite a trail of bodies. Wondering how they squared this with authorities in half a dozen countries was only one of the annoying plot oddities. Still, it made for a diverting Sunday evening read.Content Rating PG for all the bodies.
Another amazing novel by Robert B Parker. Starts great but gets even better when Hawk joins the party. Spenser and Hawk are probably one of the best duos in crime fiction. Bringing them together gave me some of the best laughs i have ever read. Can't wait until the next one.
PROTAGONIST: SpenserSETTING: LondonSERIES: #5RATING: 4.25WHY: Hugh Dixon’s wife and kids were blown up by a group of 9 terrorists while in London; he himself barely escaped death.
This is the first book where Hawk is featured as Spenser’s partner in a job.
The group they are after aren’t well organized, but it is tricky to find so many of them.
Spenser selects one of them as a “Judas goat” who will lead them to the others.
The different setting and the addition of Hawk as a partner make this one well worth reading.
I never heard of it back then.I liked to re-name the Spenser books, but should this one be "Spenser's Travels" or "Spenser Gets Shot In The Ass"?
So, Spenser travels to London, Amsterdam, Copenhagen, and Montreal, for the 1976 Olympics.
I don't think there is any question but that Parker went to each, and was especially impressed with the Montreal 1976 Olympics.In the prior book, the damsel complained that she was a "Judas Goat".
The goat, of course, betrays the predator, but is also betrayed by the goat's keeper.Parker falters badly in a very silly scene about how the female terrorist they captured becomes overpoweringly aroused when humiliated and confined.
This book used to come up when I searched for "goat" in the library catalog as a child. I was mad because it wasn't actually about goats. Now I am an adult who reads detective novels, so I am reading it.
In Spenser's fifth adventure, the body count is rather high. This case takes him to London, Amsterdam and Montreal. Great late 70's descriptions of the manner of dress back then. This is also the first case, he asked Hawk for help/backup. Lots of beer consumed and wisecracks galore, as usual.
Best Spenser yet.Spenser has to run off to Europe to chase down terrorists who killed his client's family. It requires bringing Hawk along making it the adventure I enjoyed most in this series so far.
Dixon okays the mission-creep and Spenser refuels with a half-time visit to Susan who offers an analysis of the sexed-up Katherine’s psychology…among other things.
Spenser is good company, offering bon mots, movie references and a strong moral compass (he remains sexually true to Susan throughout despite Katherine trying a number on both him and Hawk).
He’s handed a credible task with high stakes, we watch him and Hawk be good guys through a lot of violent and sexual shenanigans and he then returns to Susan to remind himself – and the reader – that actually there are good things in the world.
It’s a very apt title for this early Spenser novel in which the detective is hired to track down nine people who tossed a bomb into a London restaurant, crippling the client and murdering his wife and two daughters.
They do and the lead he gets is a look at one of the women attached to the group—a woman he uses to lead him to all of the others.One of the peculiar things about this novel is there is a lot of “waiting” in it—waiting while conducting surveillance, waiting to see if there really are assassins in Spenser’s rooms and whether or not they will tip their hands, etc.
this is the cover on the book I read BUT the copyright date is 1978.
It has been weird reading these books from 1973 when the 1st one was written by Robert B.
And, when I read the books, if you look at the pictures of him on the backs of some of them my image of Spenser is Robert B.
Spenser goes to London in this book.
He wants Spenser to find them.
So who gets to be Spenser's Judas Goat.
Of course you know what a Judas Goat is!
Worst of the series so far. I was just so bored!
I have read quite a few of the Spenser books and have enjoyed them. I thought he got a little cutesy at the beginning , which for me was distracting. It was some what different from others I had read, perhaps going to England may have created this feeling.
A year ago, millionaire Hugh Dixon was dining in a London restaurant with his wife and two daughters when a bomb suddenly exploded and his family lay dead at his feet.
Dixon knows what each member of the group looks like.
Spenser quickly finds Katherine, the one woman in the group and uses her as a Judas Goat to lead him to the others.
The leader of the terrorist group, a man named Paul finds Spenser and Hawk to be veritable foes.
He tires of the hunt and moves on to his next planned assassination, leaving the woman named Katherine behind.
Spenser makes a setting change in the fifth book of Robert Parker's series.
This installment of Parker's series seemed to have a darker tone to it, but it was still an excellent book.
That question was never fully answered for me, I felt.This is the second book with Hawk and I like the way his character contrasts with Spenser, while at the same time they show many similarities.
I often wonder if Hawk is Parker's way of blurring the line between the "good guys" and the "bad guys." Hawk is definitely a character with a great amount of substance.
I like that in his character.
I am attempting to read all of the books in the Spenser series by both Parker and Ace Atkins.
In this adventure, Spenser is hired by Dixon to arrest or kill the terrorists who killed his wife and two girls.
Spenser and Hawk go to Europe and then Canada to hunt down the nine terrorists who are in a anti-communist, free Africa movement.
In attempting to stop the terrorists Hawk and Spenser get into a two chapter fight with Zachary, a huge terrorist.
Got a tad tedious.There is also a seductive terrorist named Kathie who attempts to woo Spenser to bed with her.
Parker has L'Amour's touch for action scenes, and his own clever, crisp way with dialogue.
While it is true that you can pick up any Spenser novel and it will make sense, the best way to read them is sequentially, because they chronologically track the adventures and love life of the protagonist.
I like The Judas Goat because in it Spenser faces hiring himself out to kill terrorists who have destroyed his client's family and maimed him as well.
The Judas Goat marks Spenser for life...he knows where he fits in the world, and yet he moves forward, bearing the burden of his guilt and able to survive in a grey world.

3  stars. Some parts very good. Some parts ok.Spenser is hired to find and capture or kill some terrorist bombers. I couldn’t imagine how he would do it. I enjoyed watching him do it. The previous book introduced Hawk. In this book Spenser hires Hawk to help. There were some good scenes with them together. As always, I like this author because of his wit.The narrator Michael Prichard was very good.DATA:This is book #5 in the Spenser series.Narrative mode: 1st person Spenser. Unabridged audiobook
3 ½ stars.
Some parts very good.
Some parts ok.Spenser is hired to find and capture or kill some terrorist bombers.
The previous book introduced Hawk.
In this book Spenser hires Hawk to help.
There were some good scenes with them together.
As always, I like this author because of his wit.The narrator Michael Prichard was very good.DATA:This is book #5 in the Spenser series.Narrative mode: 1st person Spenser.
Swearing language: none that I recall, but there were some racial slurs.
Sexual language: none.
Number of sex scenes: one, referred to no details.
Book copyright: about 1978.
Oh, how I loved the television show, Spenser for Hire as a teenager of the 80s.
So when I see these books, I think that I will like them.
This is a fairly typical book for the series, I'm sure, although it does have Spenser and Hawk jet-setting around Europe.
As the book is set in 1976, it's interesting to see the more relaxed security standards for airlines back in those times.
The story isn't that strong, but it is full of action and suspense.
I like that this story highlights some of the sights of London, Copenhagen, Amsterdam and Montreal.
A fun, diverting, fast-paced action thriller.
The best thing about the Spencer books is that they're very short.
Parker dispenses with a lot of the usual nonsense, though he loves describing all the clothes people wear - the book would be at least four pages shorter if he had dispensed with that unnecessary aspect of storytelling.
The action, as usual, is crisp and compelling, the plot as simple as a straight line, and the wisecracks rapid fire.
Spencer goes all over the world in this one, and even to the Olympics.
You'll forget about it as soon as you turn the last page, but it's fun anyway.
All 5 books of the series have been very good reads with lots of humor
Great
★ ★ ★ 1/2
