https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/359994.Gods_and_Kings
In both big (the King says "religion belongs in the temple, not in the streets and certainly not in the government") and smaller ways (people talking about if they believe in God, or their "faith" or wondering if God really exists and how we can know when we don't see him, and talking about their faith become an "empty ritual" and dozens of other examples found on every page of dialogue) Austin again makes a parody of the book by entirely not understanding the ancient view of the sacred and inserting our own modern, western view.
She breathes fresh life into the character of Hezekiah, creating a flesh-and-blood man whose struggles and weaknesses make his triumphs as one of Judah's greatest kings all the more inspiring.
And the book lives up to perhaps the best measure of whether or not biblical fiction succeeds or fails - it inspires study of the actual biblical text.
Hezekiah was one small drop in an overwhelming sea of danger and false gods, but God used his life to literally change the course of an entire nation and people.
It is interesting because it tells the same story that is repeated in the scriptures - good king dies, bad king takes over, he is slothful, arrogant, brutal, evil, most of the kingdom is sinful and won't repent, prophets who call them to repentance are beaten, then one of his sons will take over and be a good king and get the nation back to worshipping God (Yahweh in this book) instead of pagan idols.
DONE - LOVED THE BOOK!!
DONE - LOVED THE BOOK!!
Exciting, battle between corrupt and good.
Micah, Isaiah, and Hezekiah were all alive and kicking at the same time period, and I guess I either never knew that or forgot it.The bad part was that, even though Ms. Austin has a degree in Biblical Backgrounds and Archeology, there was really very little historical details found in this book, at least not to the level of other historical novels I've read.
I kept thinking, "SOMEone doesn't like the emergent church." I doubt that's what she was thinking when she wrote the book, but that's what I kept feeling everytime something was written about justifying compromises of your beliefs by saying you're just going to join them for a while, then you'll win them over at some point.And now, back to the good part.
If you are looking for a scholarly text or a historical text, this might not be the book.
But if you are looking for an interesting story then it's not bad.There is still that awkward feeling, for me, that a casual reader might read this novel and use it as a historical reference - that now they know the REAL story of those ancient days - and that somehow I'm complicit in that by even reading the book.
There are so many fabulous books to be read that don't leave an awkward feeling...
2.5 stars (maybe)Dialog (including internal) way too modern voiced and jarring to the ancient setting. While reading, I did not envision an ancient setting such as Jerusalem at the time of the Assyrian Empire should have evoked in my mind. I also felt the portrayal of everyday life and the traditional major life events and ceremonies were poorly researched and related. Too much cardboard melodrama and predictable snapshot scenes. I'm thankful this novel was so short. I will not continue reading this series.

Just finished Gods and Kings, Christian fiction based on the book of Chronicles about King Hezekiah. I liked her message, but it was written more "modern" than I liked. Her characters were missing too much of the ancient philosophies and customary attitudes of the time.
I really enjoyed this biblical historical novel.
The time period and events detailed in this book had only been names from the Old Testament to me, and I never really knew the story of their names.
This book does an excellent job of bringing to life King Hezekiah, his father King Ahaz, his maternal grandfather Zechariah, and the Prophets Isaiah and Micah.
These names from the Bible are now fully fleshed people to me, and I can now picture the time they lived in, the idol worshiping that occurred, the human sacrifices, and the desecration of the Temple during the time of Kind Ahaz.
I love historical fiction that can place you in the setting with the sights, sounds, and culture of that day. Now when I read of Hezikiah in the Old Testament, I will have a better appreciation than I did before because of this account. You can easily see how the Jews left God and why and how terrible Kings of that day were. They really set the tone for their kingdom. Even in our world today, we can learn from the past and put our trust in God.
Lynn Austin is my favorite author of historical Christian fiction.
Biblical fiction is not my favorite genre.
I highly recommend all of Austin's books because she really does the research, her writing is top-notch, and her books are all faith-centered and Biblical.
Reading about idol worship in a fictional setting makes it come to life, more than words on a page, and gives depth of meaning to the whole Bible.
In fleshing out biblical characters the Bible comes to life.
Most importantly the worship of Jehovah God.This book is worth a re-read.
Thank you, Lynn, and please keep writing!
Nnnnnnnnnope.The worst of these was the character of Uriah, a high priest who totally sells out God to the Assyrian gods and builds a bunch of idols and THROWS SMALL CHILDREN INTO FIRES TO SACRIFICE THEM.
So anyway, there was actually a moment where I was getting into the story and starting to forgive it for its flaws, and then it has a character say that RELYING ON YOUR OWN INTELLECT IS THE SAME THING AS SACRIFICING SMALL CHILDREN TO A FIRE.
Because if they HAD, it would have been like sacrificing small children to a god of fire.
One of the best things about good Biblical fiction is that the stories and people come alive for you - and become ...
Whether I was weeping with Abijah over her lost child, cringing with young Hezekiah as he was drug to the sacrifices to Molech, feeling the loss and anger of Zechariah as he saw the temple defaced and robbed the first time ...
The only problem was that the book ended just as Hezekiah is coming into his own and you feel like the story should keep going.
Lucky for us - this is just the first book in the series.
Gods and Kings is the first of a Biblical Fiction series. Its focus is King Hezekiah from the time he was a young boy to when his reign begins at age 25.While I very much enjoyed all the history, I was not fully engaged in the story. Overall,it was a good novel and one I'd recommend to readers who enjoy Biblical Fiction. I do plan to continue reading the series.
A Quickie ReviewLynn Austin brings the old story from the books of Kings to life. With lots of emotion and plenty of historical detail, you've likely never seen Hezekiah and Ahaz portrayed like this before. Fans of Biblical historical fiction will definitely like this.Score: 4/5
Very good read! I purchased the audio book version and the narrator did a really good job with the voices. The story line was good as well.
The king sacrifices his firstborn to the idol Molech in the land of Israel.
Don’t you remember the story I told you about how Yahweh helped David  defeat Goliath?” Hezekiah nodded?
And how Yahweh caused the sun to stand still  so Joshua could defeat the five Amorite kings?
“Because our nation no longer believes in  Him… and so no one bothered to ask Him to.”Lynn Austin thoroughly researched the history of Judah during the reign of king Abijah.
“Belief in Yahweh doesn't come with your mind, Hezekiah.
In a time and place engulfed by violence, treachery, and infidelity to Yahweh, Abijah and her son must discover the one true Source of strength if they are to save themselves and their country.My Thoughts: I first picked up this book because it was free on kindle.
Austin brought the characters from the Old Testament alive.
I have read the Old Testament stories but rarely thought about the feelings or the humanity behind the words.
Reading this book made me want to reread the chapters about Ahaz and Hezekiah, seeing them in a new light.The action is steady and exciting.
This is not my favourite genre (suspense) but I really enjoyed this book.What I love about Biblical Fiction is that it break opens the Bible in different ways and you click events better than when reading the Bible.
Another thing that I love about Biblical fiction is that it takes you back to the Bible - after reading the first pages I went to the parts in the Bible this book is about and read it to understand if that truly happened.I loved Hezekiah the child, and will look forward to reading more of Hezekiah as the King.
What stood out for me is how men craved power back then already and how they will compromise their beliefs for power and lying to themselves about their choices.
The adventure from there is non-stop as we witness the struggles of King Ahaz's reign and the events that shaped the development of his son, Hezekiah who will become King after Ahaz.
The plot points are stronger than the characters, and a reading of each book in this series is not complete without reading the Scripture Austin provides at the end.
However, it helped me to think about the people behind the Scriptural account and to connect certain events in a timeline.I found this a valuable read, but my friend HATED it.
I think she makes some good points.
I really really like the retelling of the biblical story about King Ahaz and Hezekiah. It made it come to life and put you there in the moment. I kept wanting to refer to scripture which in some instances I did. It really really put things in perspective for me and helped me to understand those stories more thoroughly. This book made me get teary-eyed in some points and all out sobbed in another. I would definitely recommend this book to anyone that would like to read biblical fiction or to be really put there in the moment.
This was the Biblical story of Hezekiah, fleshed out into fiction. I haven’t read the story of Hezekiah through very often, but it was interesting to read a fictionalised account of it - and to tie in various Biblical characters that I hadn’t realised were around at the same time (Isaiah, Micah, Zechariah).This is the first in a series, and I am looking forward to reading Song of Redemption.
I really enjoyed this historical fiction look at Hezekiah, King Ahaz, Zechariah, & Isaiah.
I enjoyed the fleshing out of characters in the Biblical account of Judah.
This was a retelling of King Ahaz and his son Hezkiah.
There is far too much in the book to give an adequate synopsis.
Super shortened Cliff notes...King Ahaz did not follow God but offered children as sacrifices, including his own, to idols hoping for Judah's protection by these gods.
Isaiah warned him, he didn't listen and his kingdom suffered.
He was killed and Hezekiah became king and brought the kingdom back to the one true God.I thoroughly enjoyed this audio version.
He was enjoying it too.I've read quite a few books by Lynn Austin, all very good.
Many familiar Bible characters we learn were contemporaries of Ahaz, including the prophets Isaiah and Micah and the high priest Uriah.There was a lot of action and suspense plus heroism, corruption, and depravity.
The scenes of the child sacrifices to Moloch and the torture of prisoners by the Assyrians upset me, but I know they happened just that way in real history.As others have mentioned here, I too felt the author used the story to promote her own contemporary religious views for today's issues -- Beware of intellectuals, well meaning as they may be.
Gods and Kings is the first book in the biblical fiction series Chronicles of the King written by Lynn Austin.
The novel begins in the early years of Judah's King Ahaz (2 Chronicles 28:1 "Ahaz was twenty years old when he became king… unlike David his father, he did not do what was right in the eyes of the Lord.”) and ends with the coronation of King Hezekiah (2 Chronicles 29:1-3 "Hezekiah was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem twenty-nine years.
In the first month of the first year of his reign, he opened the doors of the Temple of the Lord and repaired them.”).Biblically accurate characters include King Ahaz, his wife Abijah, her father the priest Zechariah, the high priest Uriah, prince Hezekiah.
The story of King Ahaz, Zechariah, and King Hezekiah told in a way that is believable, heart wrenching, captivating, and all consuming!
I guess it helps that the story is a fictionalized adaptation of a period in the bible.
I can very much see the story going the way this book was written.When the bible said, "Hezekiah was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem twenty-nine years.
This is an excellent read for those who read the bible as well as those who do not.It will leave you saying, "WOW...just WOW!Gods and Kings
A nation with their backs to God. A King bending to the mighty Assyrians’ dominion.
And a God who refuses to leave them alone...
She tells the story of King Hezekiah’s childhood in godless Jerusalem before he ascended the throne.
Surrounded by idol worshipers, with the mighty Assyrian empire breathing down his country’s back, Hezekiah’s story is one of great tension, but also of great redemption.
It is very evident that Ms. Austin has done immense amounts of research into every aspect of his historical time period in order to make this story accurate and compelling.
This is one of the first books I picked up for my Kindle, and it has languished in my TBR pile for over 4 years now.
It is a fictional retelling of the events of the book of Chronicles from the Bible, and while I normally enjoy Biblical Retellings, this one didn't impress me much.
The only redeeming factor was that the author's writing was a surprise to me, as it was actually a well woven story.All in all, I'd have to say that I'm not impressed with the book.
