https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14362.Bless_Me_Ultima
He's the only one who calls her Ultima throughout the book.
Ultima seems to have taken a fascination with Antonio.
Also, when some people are curses with spells by the witches, Ultima takes Antonio with her to help break spells.
When Ultima and Antonio break a spell, a local man and his 3 witch daughters vow revenge.
One by one, Ultima encounters and breaks a spell, increasing Antonio's respect and curiosity of Ultima's powers.
When a spell is broken, something terrible happens to the witch daughters, which increases their father's hatred for Ultima.
You just have to read the book.
This is one of the books I reread every now and then because it brings my own childhood closer to me and reminds me of the sense of self in a small community like the one in Bless Me Ultima.I think the unique relationship between Antonio and Ultima was the most endearing to me and made me think of my own grandmothers.
There is a different pace to growing up in a rural community and the ties that Antonio had to family and traditions is something that I found familiar.
I thought it would be a quaint book about life in New Mexico but it is a poignant coming-of-age story that discusses the familiar themes of the battle between good and evil, young and old, traditions and modernity.
This book just wasn't for me. 😑
Burning, it turned out, was not to be a one-time aberration: Bless Me, Ultima has fed the flames again and again: the most recent incident happened in Norwood, Colorado, in 2005.My awareness of what is sometimes called Chicano pride literature began in January 2012, when Tucson Unified School District administrators cancelled Mexican-American Studies classes in mid-session, pulling novels and textbooks from students' and teachers' hands and packing them in boxes labeled "banned books," a story that resulted in international outrage and made Arizona a laughingstock.
This was a one city, one book choice for Austin, Texas, where I lived at the time. It was my second reading of the title at that time, and I was as entranced the second time as I was the first. What a joyous ride through the wonderful magical world of Hispanic New Mexico.I would recommend this to any reader of the magical realism school, or any fan of Hispanic literature, or anyone who needs a memorable escape from the real world.
I think some groups attempted to justify the banning of this particular book because of those critiques/contrasts of religion and the matters in which young Antonio/Tony has to come to terms with in this novel, alongside some of the mystical elements, but I honestly thought this was a wonderful story showing a boy who becomes more mature from the questions he asks, from the contradictions he sees in his life, the experiences he has, and ultimately what he learns from the wisdom of the wise, elder Ultima.
Post listen reviewIf you like really poetic and flowery language to describe the most mundane of details then this is the book for you.
This book has murder, revenge, redemption, witchcraft and school bullies in it yet it was able to pretty much bore me the entire time.Now I know that some people really enjoy a poetic book and I think that in some stories it works very well but in my opinion this is not one of them.
It is a good book for people who are into poetic language and all kinds of religious debate and strange imagery.
His mother is a strong Catholic while his elderly aunt Ultima (La Grande) is a curandera (healer) who aligns with a more pagan world view with its focus on the natural world.Being in the Southwest, Antonio must also live in two cultures simultaneously.
Ultima tells him that he must decide for himself what kind of man he will become.Antonio experiences change as a palpable thing that affects him deeply as he searches for identity and embarks on his journey to manhood.
It is the story of six-year-old Antonio Marez who bonds with Ultima, a curandera, one who cures with herbs and magic.
Under the guidance of this wise woman, Antonio examines family ties that bind him and tear him apart and discovers himself in the magical past.
While my college Spanish is rusty, I have plowed through the book and delighted in the childish dreams and fantasies expressed by Antonio.
At times I think that Antonio uses vocabulary that is beyond his years but that does not detract from the story.
The book is a good in depth look at life in a Spanish family in the 1940s.
Reaction: I thought that was a wonderfully creative novel. Also, I felt like I got lucky when I picked this from the A.P. God's reading list, beacuse it was a very moving book. Usually when I read a novel I tend to not finish them on account of a schedule filled with numerous other things. As for this book, I actually was engaged and determined to finish. As a whole the book was a rather quick one to finish and easy on the brain in terms of comprehension for following the stroy, plot, etc. earne
Also, I felt like I got lucky when I picked this from the A.P. God's reading list, beacuse it was a very moving book.
Usually when I read a novel I tend to not finish them on account of a schedule filled with numerous other things.
As a whole the book was a rather quick one to finish and easy on the brain in terms of comprehension for following the stroy, plot, etc.
Also, when Antonio is going through bad times and violent things around him, Ultima shows him the light to find his way.
Overall, the basis of the novel moved me as a reader and inspired me.
An encounter with a good book is occasionally as mystical as the story within it.
As I prepared to move to New Mexico, several people told me I had to read Bless Me, Ultima.
What can I add to the river of ink that has poured out this story's and this writer's praise?
What insight can I add to the banks of book reports written by students forced to read this by wise teachers?
What revelation can I share that won't simply be lost in the flood?None but this: this book that insisted on being read, lived up to and beyond the amazing nature of my encounter with it.
Five stars are not enough for this timeless classic! I would give it one hundred stars if I could! Bless Me Ultima is one of those tales, part coming of age story, part magical realism, that I could read time and time again and never grow tired of. It never fails to touch me deep in my soul.
But from my father and Ultima I had learned that the greater immortality is in the freedom of man, and that freedom is best nourished by the noble experience of land and air and pure, white sky."Unlike most fiction I've read, Anaya is very didactic and clear in his revelations: thus is thus and it is good.
As demonstrated by the above quotation, Anaya's approach to the earth is as an inclusive, ecosystem-based approach, with emphasis on the inclusion of humanity as natural element.
However, Anaya clearly believes in the value of wilderness, separate from and perhaps above civilized communion with the land through farming and religion.
Can't say I experienced Tony's culture, but I was certainly able to place myself in the setting and love that child character more.
If only we could all have an elder like Ultima to provide us with their wisdom.
And, if only all children were able to absorb their teachings as Tony did.
Tony is his mother's last chance for raising a child of the faith.
The curandura Ultima is his chance to become a man of wisdom, whether religious or secular.
Only when Tony has grasped his father's hope, that he become a tender of plants, is he able to mature and face his future.
I don’t typically seek out this sort of book but the blurbage from the SYNC program caught my eye last summer and, well, it was free and I'm all about the free.I regret reading many a book but my only regret here is that it took me a full year to actually take the time to listen to Bless Me, Ultima.
It tells the story of a young boy named Antonio (Tony) whose family takes in an elder named Ultima, as is their tradition.
The young boy, Antonio Márez, must navigate a number of conflicts—between farmers and cowboys, Spanish and indigenous peoples, and English-speaking and Spanish-speaking peoples—that collectively structured the cultural life in rural New Mexico during the 1940s.
Like Antonio’s parents, Anaya’s mother was the daughter of farmers and his father was a vaquero, or cowboy.
This incident appears in Bless Me, Ultima when Florence, Antonio’s friend, dies in a swimming accident.
Anaya and his siblings moved between the Spanish- and English-speaking worlds, and they were raised in a devoutly Catholic home, like the Márez children were.
This novel is the current One Book, One Boulder, so at first I thought I was reading it for class.
This book was also banned by a high school in CO, prompting a sit-in organized and participated in by students, resulting in the books placement back on the reading list….told in first person, the main character struggles between his desire to please his mother by becoming a priest and his interest in the myths of his past, symbolized by the appearance of Ultima, or La Grande, back in their lives.
Antonio learns much in this novel, as does his audience.
Truly, good and evil is at battle here, but perhaps Ultima convinces that both must learn to co-exist, as both will always be around….the same with God and Magic?
As a naturalist, I enjoyed the natural thread that runs through the book.
He also must choose between the agrarian, devout heritage of his mother and the largely lawless, violent "cowboy" ways of his father's family.Along the way, young Tony meets Ultima, a "curandera" or herbal healer, who is accompanied by an all-seeing owl.
Through his relationship with Ultima and others, Tony discovers simplicity, a oneness with nature, free of value judgments and the beauty of not living in the past, but in the here and now.
Wow!
What a stunningly beautiful book!
I hope to reread this someday just for the descriptions of the natural world.
Ultima may now be one of my most favorite fictional characters...oh and how I wish I knew more about her!
In many ways she reminded me of my own grandmother.
I love the way she listened to the earth and I loved her for her quiet strength.
Antonio reminded me so much of myself and the questions I began asking a young age, the questions I still ask.
I loved Antonio for his awe in the face of beauty.Why does evil exist?
His three older brothers have gone to fight in World War II; Antonio and his two older sisters live with their parents in a small village, on the edge of the open plains.
This novel portrays a slice of Chicano culture and rural life; reading it is like being given a glimpse of a certain time and place that seems very special in many ways.
Bless Me, Ultima was banned in Arizona in 2014, as it emphasizes Chicano culture and traditional belief systems, and was considered not "western" in what it reflects.
I liked this quite a bit. I never would have been interested in reading it if it weren't for The Great American Read on PBS. On the show, a young Latino woman talked about how important it was for her reading something that mirrored her experience as a Latino growing up in New Mexico. I like reading about other cultures so I decided to give it a try. I enjoyed it. It was pretty deep for a young adult book.
I read this my sophomore year of high school, late 90s. Those were the days!  HIT THE BOOKS!
In the novel “Bless Me, Ultima” by Rudolfo Anaya, One of the main character, Ultima is accused many times of being a witch.
Ultima is a curandera who use herb and medicine to cures people.
She goes to live with Antonio Marez, a young boy who lives in the illano with his parents and two sisters due to the fact that she cannot live by herself and had nowhere to stay.
Although many people think she is a witch, her use of herbs, medicine, and scapular show that she is merely just a curandera.
Part of my love for this book could very well be because it takes place in New Mexico—a place that I know and love. I’ve actually never read a book that was SO New Mexicany in my life. Anaya is a fantastic writer, and his pacing is wonderful. I loved it.
This was the "Big Read" this year?
God had no real power, but the power to bring guilt and fear.
He couldn't even bring as much comfort as a "golden carp" in a river.
I cringe to think that some schools across the nations used this as reading in their curriculum.
The only reason I made myself finish this book is because I knew that some of our young people were also being made to read it and I wanted to know what to say if anyone asked me about it.
BIG READ, Hah!
Big "golden CRAP" more like it!
Bless me another way. If this book i had to read for class...I would drop the class. It's good for the most part but is bogged down with a lot of unnecessary imagery and words.
I was very moved by this book. Antonio's journey to coming of age was fraught with danger, violence, and deeply spiritual questions. I fell into Antonio's world and had a hard time pulling myself out of it. His family, friends, and especially, Ultima profoundly affected him, and in turn made me think and ask questions. There were parts of the story that were stressful to read, but it was definitely worth it.
There was so much beauty in this novel and there were parts that were incredible.
Or at the very least, I wanted this to be a story of Ultima instead of a rather flat incredibly precocious young boy who simply is witness to too many unexpected things.
A fellow book club reader stated she would have liked to have read this in a class with a professor to fill in some of the things she may have missed due to cultural or time period differences and I heartily agree with that sentiment.Regardless, I do recommend this book.
It is a beautiful story.
Absolutely loved this book! It perfectly demonstrated a child’s inner struggle of trying to please all its influences and find its own path
Different from many other childhood memoirs, Bless Me, Ultima by Rudolfo Anaya does not merely tell of a series of childhood events, but of a war between the forces of good and the forces of evil.Antonio Marez lives in a world in which there is the Catholic Church, but there are also brujos and brujas (warlocks and witches), but also a powerful and wise curandera named Ultima, and also remnants of other pagan observances, such as a giant golden carp and the ghosts of three Comanche who had been hanged and deprived of burial.
Antonio must choose his footsteps carefully in a world where there are many choices to be made, many of them seemingly contradictory.
