https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18656030-cibola-burn
Twenty pages in and the book thinks it’s going to be about immigration, evil corporations and land rights.
Halfway in and the book thinks it’s going to be about natural disasters.
At the end, the book thinks it’s going to be about the big, mysterious alien race and object.
Well, Basia could have been an interesting character as a would-be terrorist seeking redemption for killing people in terrorist-y ways, but instead he mopes and whines.The antagonist, Murtry (now there’s a name that strikes fear in your heart) was also stupidly two-dimensional, nothing more than a “I love the Comp’ny!
Things quickly escalate to violence, and when the governments need a guy with a reputation for honesty and fairness to act as moderator they call on Captain Jim Holden.So it’s a planet filled with angry people using terrorism tactics against a fanatical security chief for the corporation who will stop at nothing to protect RCE interests.
The authors also do a superior job of figuring out bad situations to stick the characters in and equally clever ways to get them out of them.But it’s still the commitment to making the biggest obstacle usually be rotten people of one kind or another that continues to help ground the series and make it really relatable.
After taking almost three hundred pages to find its stride, Cibola Burn launches its readers into a tense, high-stakes adventure that lasts to the final page.
The fourth Expanse novel is a bit of a sea change – though a perfectly logical progression from the game-changing events of Abaddon’s Gate. This time the crew of the Rocinante is tasked with mediating a potentially disastrous dispute between corporate interests and belter squatters on the first habitable world discovered on the other side of the ring. Thrilling action, nail-biting suspense and complex characters are, by now, par for the course in what has become the most consistently and spectacularly entertaining space opera series out there. As close to perfect as old-school space adventure can get.
*** 4.25 *** "... “It was astounding, Bobbie thought, how quickly humanity could go from What unimaginable intelligence fashioned these soul-wrenching wonders? to Well, since they’re not here, can I have their stuff?” ..." The authors of "The Expanse" series came through again! With a flair for storytelling and a well build set-up to a series starting from book one, "Cibola Burn" comes to us with a set of givens and expectations. The givens are the great world-building, characters we already kno
The givens are the great world-building, characters we already know and know what to expect of in the crew of Holden, Naomi, Alex, and Amos, and a whole new Universe, open to us by the Protomolecule and the discoveries of "Abaddon’s Gate".
However, just when the crew is starved for landing and some personal TLC, the United Nations and the OPA ask them to do a mission of inter-mediation on the first Earth-like new planet ever discovered, between the small group of Belters who have established a small community there and the Earth mega-corporation for extracting energy, RCE, to which the charter for drilling and exploration has been given by the UN.
:) Sure, we're out of the Solar System and Holden is attempting to play peacemaker rather than the lone voice of truth, but what he's got on his shoulders is the one-eye'd king in the land of the blind syndrome...
Not whole Powers breathing down his neck this time, but things get really hairy out on the frontier where law and order is played fast and loose.Yep. It's a cowboy novel featuring slugs that blind you, a planet literally going through an upheaval, falling moons, billions-of-years-old alien genocide, and one undead cop.Cool?
Hell yeah.
What the hell.
I thought I'd sit down and read another chapter or two, and before I knew it, I looked up a couple of hours later having finished half the book in one sitting.THIS SHIT IS LIKE DRUGS FOR GEEKS, PEOPLE.There are many POVs in Cibola Burn, but it does my favourite thing when it comes to stories like this: it connects them all and tells an interwoven story sort of like a massive four-sided Venn diagram.
You know what's coming, but it's a surprisingly effective storytelling technique.Cibola Burn also brings back one of the best parts about this series: the delicate politics between the inner and outer planets.
It's sad that, almost 300 pages in, the most interesting thing Havelock has done is play paintball with engineers and mull over Belter/Inner 'racism.' But Elvi, good God. I cringe even typing the name.
Caliban's War and Abaddon's Gate were both so damn good that I read them again before the release of Cibola Burn.
I'll keep reading Expanse, as I have faith in the ability of Ty and David to create something extraordinary, but I sincerely hope Cibola Burn isn't a glimpse of things to come.
Except, instead of Catholics/Protestants, the conflict is between a small group of squatters, who've shot ahead of everyone else, and laid claim to one of the thousand-plus planets beyond the Rings, and the big, (naturally) evil corporation that has the legal rights to it.Want to read about the alien artifacts that are so thickly-strewn across Ilus/New Terra, that people are practically tripping over them?
Not on the same level as the previous installments but still good.
Well, unlike the previous books, which I felt started off slow but gradually built up to bigger and better action, Cibola Burn breaks this pattern and kicks things off right away with an explosive conflict you can’t ignore.
With no real police force, no courts and no legal system, authority is determined by who has the greatest firepower, and when you’re in a region of space eighteen months from the closest civilization, that there pretty much spells a recipe for disaster.Like all the previous books in the series, Cibola Burn is told from the perspective of a handful of point-of-view characters.
4.0 StarsThis might be my least favourite book in the series so far, but that doesn't mean that I didn't enjoy it.
At this point, I find it comforting to read about my beloved recurring characters.
I really enjoy reading about the tension between the various interplanetary groups.
A few of the new characters were a bit flat and underdeveloped.
Personally, I found the new female particularly irritating.
I don't typically read books through a feminist lens, but it was frustrating to watch an educated women lose her head over a man.However, the authors do an incredibly job setting up the situation for the next book in the series.
I dalje odlična zabava.. kraj malo škripi ali sve u svemu ja sam zadovoljan!!! Sa nestrpljenjem čekam nastavak...!!!
Well, it's mostly greed and bureaucratic bullshit.Thus, the powers that be in Sol sanction a corporation to hold the rights for the exploration of the first new planet while a few Belters simply go there and touch down.
Therefore, the term (view spoiler)["terrorists" definitely applied and despite me despising the security chief and agreeing that he lost his marbles (probably long before the ring opened Sol up to the universe), I respect that he refused to let any more of his people be killed.
This was just the first of over a thousand new planets and I don't want to return to Sol yet.P.S.: I LOVED Spidey-Miller!
A lot better than the last one, still some bits where I lost interest. The regular cast is great. Alex and Naomi got bigger parts. Miller is back from the word salad either."You’re like Peter Pan, she says. When a child died, Peter Pan would fall halfway with them. So they wouldn’t be scared.Weird. And that’s a kid’s story? Anyway, it’s not me, the investigator says (Miller), smiles at her. Holds her hand. I don’t go for half."Although these guys don't have any problem with killing characters, I hope Miller isn't gone for good.
Cibola Burn takes humanity through the mysterious gates built by the protomolecule, to a thousand habitable worlds.
On New Terra, the very first post-solar colony, two factions are squaring off: belter refugees and a corporate, UN sanctioned expedition.
The RCE expedition is jealous and protective of their rights as granted by the UN charter.
The book was interesting, moved along at a decent clip, but kinda, well, dull.
Detective Miller was back as an incarnation of the protomolecule, probing, exploring, investigating.
With each book, more is revealed of the mystery.
What will happen when humanity finally bumps into whatever it was that killed off the protomolecule's creators?
If the first one was a mix of hard-boiled detective investigation and zombie apocalypse in space, the second was mostly about open warfare between the main three factions in the future Solar System (The Earth, Mars and the Outer Planets alliance), the third a homage to Arthur C Clarke Rama novels, the best way I can find to characterize the latest is "cowboys and aliens", with the main recurring character, Jim Holden, cast in the role of sheriff and sent to the Wild West to settle disputes between the homesteaders and the rich claim jumpers who try to evict them.
I think most authors would be happy to evoke strong emotions in their readers, but for me personally I generally don’t like to spend my recreation time angry.As seems to be par for the course, we get a bunch of brand new POV characters this go around, save for James Holden.
Elvi was another step in the wrong direction for me as well.So you have a bunch of characters you don't really like in what to me felts like a side story for most of the book.
Elvi still felt like she was there to serve at a 4th "camera" most of the time.
Cibola Burn (and Nemesis Games) felt like bonus books.
I’m super thrilled the story is not over!!!As always, this Expanse book had an excellent mix of familiar and new POV characters – an element that has always kept these novels fresh and exciting for me.
The broadness of the concept (particularly involving the protomolecule and its origins) always makes me feel so immersed these books.Overall, Cibola Burn was a great continuation of the story (the next book, Nemesis Games, was even better!
Is this a new thing you do now?” It is becoming a monthly treat to come back to the Expanse to have my next fix.
I also really appreciated how Corey doesn't just give us 'good' against 'bad', but in fact the whole grey spectrum with characters that do learn from their mistakes, and some of course who don't.
In fact, all factions from the previous books appear here in this one small geographical point when before they were spread over the Solar system and each is seeing New Terra / Ilus as their 'city of gold'.
I found the challenges of the planet, the scientists rushing around to save things, Holden's interactions with the protomolecule, the idea of a new frontier, etc all absolutely fascinating and lots of fun. But I didn't like the moustache-twirling evil villain (I found him unbelievable) or the lack of female viewpoints in this. (Elvi is a great character but also problematic.) Man oh man, though, I am looking forward to the next one!
Whether or not this common threat unifies or further divides the two sides of the conflict provides an interesting and, at times, disheartening examination of human nature."About the time one-celled organisms on Earth were starting to think about maybe trying photosynthesis, something turned this whole damned planet off.
If I’m right, the thing that did that’s not entirely gone."As the lynchpin of the series, Holden once again serves as a POV character and, once again, we get three new POV characters to add to the mix.
The layout is the same, 4 different POV's with only Holden been the link from the last ones (excluding prologue and epilogue) but a slight change being that this one starts off quite intense as supposed to the others which are slow builders.I liked the pacing of this novel, when you seem to know where the plot is going to go there is a shift and then something else rains down on the characters and changes the pace.
All things said though I did enjoy the majority of the book and annoyances aside I'm quite geared up for the next outing especially after the epilogue.
A departure in their method of storytelling. It's nice to see that the authors aren't one trick ponies. In some ways this might be the strongest entry in the expanse yet. In other ways, it isn't quite as strong. I have a hard time placing my finger on why exactly, but it's not my favorite. I suspect that it will be a favorite for many though. It's wickedly fun, and a solid entry in a terrific series. Now the waiting for 'Nemesis Games' begins.
I stick by some of my previous assertions (escalating to violence quickly, POV characters aren't great) but the story did find some urgency and complexity.Cibola Burn is the first book in the series to leave the Sol system.
Things go bad quickly (see: escalating violence) and Holden and his crew are sent as mediators.The world of the Expanse is my favorite thing about these books.
Thankfully Nemesis Games remedies this.The new POV characters this time around are Earther security chief Havelock, colonist Basia, and a scientist names Elvi.
I hated Elvi for most of the book (which in contrast made me like Holden more).
I'm a bit disappointed that the authors keep introducing new characters, just after I finally got attached to the new characters introduced in the previous books.
I miss Avasarala, is all I'm really saying.Cibola Burn feels like the weakest book so far.
I must admit, I was a bit bored this time around.
The antagonist feels very generic and one dimensional.
And Elvi...well, I found her frustrating and annoying.All in all, I hope the next book is better, because I do love the whole aspect of exploring new planets and expanding into the galaxy.
[3.5 Stars] It's not the best book in the series, but I thoroughly enjoyed reading this one. It's a lot of the same from before which is why this doesn't get as high of a rating as the others. It's good, very good, but not as exciting as the previous books (or as ingenious).
A year has passed after the events of the last book and humans start to colonize new planets.And already on the first planet we have issues between the Belter settlers and a UN research company that wants to experiment on the planet.Holden and his crew are sent there to negotiate.All in all we get 3 new povs next to Holden.
Bassia, who's a Belter settler that gets involved with the resistance against the UN company.Havelock, a crew member of the UN company's space ship parked in the orbit of the planet.And Elvie, who's a doctor of micro-biology and part of the research team.Unfortunately none of the characters connected with me and I wasn't invested in any of their personal stories.
5 StarsThis is such an amazing series. It has everything for the sci-fi geek to love. Each book brings something new to the table and all feature such an amazing cast.I truly love this series and cannot wait to read more. I highly recommend this series to science fiction lovers. This is a blockbuster series that will appeal to a large fan base. These books are so much freaking fun to read...Go and get them...
How do so many people mark it as read when it hasn't even been released yet.
