https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33597976-the-snow-child
now in their fifties, the idea was that the solitude would heal them, and together, they would build a new life and cleave together with a love stronger than ever.this didn't exactly pan out, and each of them descends into their own private griefs and the hardships the brutal carelessness of nature presents, and their own inability to communicate further isolates them from any potential for healing.until one night, when an unexpected levity descends upon them, and they build a snow child together, dressing her in a hat and mittens that they have, and carving the face of a beautiful girl upon her.the next morning, the snow child, and the clothing, are gone, and there are faint footprints leading away from where the snow child was built.soon, they start seeing glimpses of a little girl in the woods in the company of a red fox.
I put off reading The Snow Child because it wasn't something I would have chosen for myself without the extremely positive reviews of other goodreads members. If it is not obvious to you from the description alone, then this book is not mostly plot-driven. It's charm is upheld by the characters, the relationships, and the sad, cold mood that seems to permeate the entire novel from open to close. It is the kind of novel that I sometimes have trouble with, the kind not concerned with action or dr
It's charm is upheld by the characters, the relationships, and the sad, cold mood that seems to permeate the entire novel from open to close.
It was heart-breaking to picture them sat at their table feeling the absence of a child and unable to discuss it.There's something about this novel that is just plain sad.
I can't say for sure whether this book was supposed to be a lesson in how you cannot run away from your problems, or how bottling things up and shutting people out never works, but I can say that I took a little bit of all of this from the story.Onto the snow child herself.
''There once was an old man and woman who loved each other very much and were content with their lot in life except for one great sadness- they had no children of their own.'' I've often read that it is difficult to write a review about books that left you indifferent, distant. I agree, but for me, writing a review about a novel that left me speechless with its beauty is equally hard. Where do words stop? Where should we stop analyzing and dissecting a work of literature and let the power of th
Where should we stop analyzing and dissecting a work of literature and let the power of the story speak for itself?Jack and Mabel is a couple that love each other unconditionally and yet, their life together is tarnished by the absence of a child.
While Jack retains his contact with the ''outside'' world, Mabel stays home waiting, reading, baking pies, slowly letting herself become a vulnerable prey to her sadness.
Then, one cold, beautiful, snowy evening, she and Jack decide to let themselves become children again, and a miracle happens.
Thank you to the Goodreads community and my friends -- for the comments of inspiration while I was reading this book.
Before Faina comes into the story--I felt so much sadness for Mabel and Jack, I could imagine being 50 years old back in 1920, was a 'older-in-a-sense', than it is today in 2016.
Mabel and Jack never left my thoughts the entire book--even when the story shifted more to Faina and young Garrett.
( you need my thoughts like a hole in the head)...But it's all true: This is a wonderful book: sad, chilling, mysterious, magical and realistic!
Once upon a time there lived a childless old couple... This is not an uncommon beginning to folk tales, a simple introductory line which can (and in Eowyn Ivey's The Snow Child does) condense into a few simple words the years of pain, sadness, and intense longing for something that nature refused to give despite desperate desire. "Where else in life, Mabel wondered, could a woman love so openly and with such abandon?" This is where I saw the strengths of The Snow Child - not in the imagery of Al
Jack and Mabel are an aging couple who left their old life and moved to Alaska seemingly to start a homestead but really to escape the weight of their loss that, turns out, they were not able to leave behind with their old lives.
These parts of quiet desperation in which Jack and Mabel existed - because at this point it was mere existence and not quite life - were the parts that emotionally connected with me.
(bringing back memories of our childhood)Sister Read Review by Norma & BrendaTHE SNOW CHILD by EOWYN IVEY is a wonderful, heartwarming, sad, and beautifully told bewitching tale based on a Russian fairytale titled "Snegurochka", The Snow Maiden a girl who is believed to be half-human and half made of snow.
Asking ourselves if Faina was actually a real girl or a fantasy?
IVEY’S description of life on the farm was very real and we could imagine the battles they endured along with all their hard work to survive.We both loved the fantasy and magical aspect of this story which made it a thoroughly pleasurable reading experience!To sum it all up it was an enjoyable, fun, fascinating, and a fast-paced read with a bittersweet ending.
One of the best things in the book is the character development and the developing relationships throughout the story.
From the start of the book, I nearly started crying because there was just scenes that were so heart wrenching especially at the end which completely broke my heart.All the characters are perfect in this novel, they all have their faults but just as many strengths and the unexpected romance towards the end just killed me.
I completely fell in love with this book and I have to buy my own copy.
I loved this sweet story! So much heart and a little magic!
Alone in the depths of the wilderness, however, in the fading winter light, he had discovered in himself an animal-like fear.”A debut, a Pulitzer Prize nominee, and a wonderful story I’m happy to add to my list of favourites.
The next morning, the snow has melted and Jack glimpses a figure with yellow hair and a red scarf, dashing through the trees.When Mabel remembers the Russian folktale her father used to read them about a childless old couple who made a snow child that came to life, she writes to her sister to ask for the old book.
As Jack finally tracks her and coaxes her to come closer to the cabin, we see Faina is like a lovely wild animal.
Infused with aspects of pine boughs, mountain herbs, woolen mittens and inspired by happenstance, it breathes new life into an old Russian children's tale Ivey stumbled upon in her bookstore.We come to know of aging Jack and Mabel through their childless sorrows, playful intense love and survivalist fortitude all cruxing on a belief in dreams and a touch of magic.
And I must say, the skill with which Ivey works your emotions--ebbing and flowing like tides with each of Faina's heartbreaking disappearances--belies the fact this is her first book.
"'There,' he said. He stepped back. Sculpted in the white snow were perfect, lovely eyes, a nose, and small, white lips. She even thought she could see cheekbones and a little chin...How could she speak her surprise? Such delicate features. formed by his calloused hands, a glimpse at his longing. Surely, he too, had wanted children...they believed that someday their Christmas mornings would reel with running children and squeals of delight. She sewed a small stocking of their firstborn and he s
Jack and Mabel live in 1920 in the harsh reality that is the wilderness of Alpine, Alaska, with its unbearable summer heat, then all too quickly, with its freezing bitter winter cold, snow and ice, the lack of visibility, the isolation and loneliness.
I recommend this story to anyone that values the beauty and selflessness of true friendship, who has ever dealt with love and loss in their life, or to those who are parents, as this book speaks to the nature of giving, caring, nurturing, but eventually, having to let go...And then, the wonder of the miraculous snow child appears out of nowhere...
That is perhaps what he feared the most, that he would discover he had followed nothing more than an illusion." pg 72, ebook.Mabel remembers a Russian fairy tale from her childhood, of a couple who builds a girl out of snow.
The little snow girl comes and goes with winter, but in the end she always melts." pg 96, ebook.How will Jack and Mabel's story end?Recommended for fans of historical fiction and tales that contain magical realism."In my old age, I see that life itself is often more fantastic and terrible than the stories we believed as children, and that perhaps there is no harm in finding magic among the trees." pg 189, ebook.I thought The Snow Child was beautiful and well-told.
With her sensational debut novel, Eowyn Ivey offers readers a healthy dose of rural Alaskan life balanced with a story that pulls on the heartstrings.
Mabel and Jack have come to settle on the Alaskan home-front in the 1920s, having left behind the busy Pennsylvania lifestyle to which they had become accustomed.
The piece explores the life of an older couple and their connection to a snow girl, though, like most fairy tales, the story takes a turn for the worse and has an ending that is anything but happy.
I truly enjoyed the experience of reading this beautifully written book!
I was completely engrossed in Jack and Mabel's love story.
I loved each and every character in this story - my most favourite being Esther, Mabel and Jack's "neighbour".
She welcomed Mabel and Jack into her life with open arms and loved them like family from the moment she met them.
While I didn't love this book quite as much as Ivey's most recent novel, To The Bright Edge Of The World, I thoroughly enjoyed the experience of reading such a unique and beautifully written story.
Ivey's use of the folktale is multilayered and inventive, and works very well in the book's setting of Alaska in the 1920s.I cared about the characters, but I especially loved the depictions of the Alaskan wilderness throughout the seasons.
The novel also pays homage to freedom and individuality, while at the same time celebrating the bonds of friendship, love and trust that tie together friends and family.
One theme that resonates with me is the importance of being a part of something larger than oneself - a family, a farm, a close friendship, nature.
Set in rural Alaska, this book is atmospheric, eerie, hopeful, with an underlying sadness.
Could this young girl be their "snow child" They name her Faina.
As the climate becomes warmer they begin to see her less and less until one day......Ivey has a gift for making the snow and weather another character in this book.
I could feel the coldness, the silence of the snow and ice seeping through the pages.
Sadness is an underlying emotion in this book.
Often while reading this book, I wondered "what is real", "what is fantasy" and "does it really matter?"Beautiful and eloquent, The Snow Child is heavy on atmosphere and emotion.
The Snow Child is wonderful book, so good that you as the reader, despite knowing what will inevitably happen to this extraordinary family, trusts Ivey completely to lead you to it’s inevitable end. A staggering talent.
Set deep in the Alaskan wilderness, the environment is like a mirror on our couple, one that Ivey breathes life into, through the many seasons of this tale.
I loved the stark, majestic beauty of the always there and always demanding landscape.Our couple, Jack and Mabel, have left Pennsylvania behind, with their still born child, and invested all they have in a homestead in Wolverine River, Alaska.
But love has many rooms and Jack and Mabel have built a home.
With the dream like quality of a good fairy tale I was quite simply enchanted.
A simple story, a wonderful rendition, an enchanting cover….come on!
The overjoyed couple would raise it as their own, but the story would usually end badly, with the breaking of some taboo resulting in the child going away."Snegurochka" (Snow Maiden) is a Russian fairy tale where the child is fashioned out of snow by a childless woodcutter and his wife, and subsequently brought to life by Father Frost, the spirit of the winter, who takes pity on them.
The Russian story of the Snow Maiden sees the battle between the eternal forces of nature (Father Frost and Mother Spring) for warmth to return to the land.
Eowyn Ivey commands the language in such a beautiful, moving way, that it would almost not matter if the story was not spectacular.
But, never fear, she couples all that almost poetic language with a story that is moving and captivating and mysterious.
It is like good slight of hand, you cannot stop yourself from believing what you see, or in this case what you read.All her life she had believed in something more, in the mystery that shape-shifted at the edge of her senses.
Is she real or is this just a fairy tale ? It didn't matter - the writing is just so amazing ! I felt the brutal cold , saw the landscape , felt the deep pain of Mabel & Jack and loved Faina . This will stay with me for a long time .
I could hear a bull moose snorting, swan screaming, snow crunching, river ice cracking.
I could see rows and rows of crops growing in the heat of the short Alaska season - in fact I dreamed about it last night.
Sense of place is superbly developed, as expertly crafted as a prize winning pie, or a winter coat made reverently by hand.
And out of the night in an Alaska blizzard, when grief and solitude are crusted around homesteader hearts, a little girl with pale eyelashes and a fur hat appears in the frost on the window.
Inasmuch as we are all weaned on the magic of folktale generality, our first foray into making sense of the world, so that any return to it is so sacred an author needs only to wrestle failure out of guaranteed success.Ivey falls captive to the tale of Snegurochka, and tries her hand.
Running a bookshop in Alaska, she is no stranger to snow, remoteness, isolation, and the magical synechdoche of man and nature.
The woman has a toolkit you and I don’t: so bring it.And she’s off to a stunning start.
Come on, Ivey: what did you do to Snegurochka?
It is about grief, survival, marriage, magic, and community.
I read it while I was in Alaska, which added a lot of atmosphere, thinking about the people who can stick it out and survive such a place, and about this snow child who can't be too far from the ice and snow.
I think I read the last 300 pages without stopping, the morning after falling asleep reading it.
I just kept reading, maybe even in my sleep.Also interesting to read it after To The Bright Edge of the World, when most readers probably encountered the books in reverse order.
An unhurried, ethereal, captivating dream - so captivating, that I cleared out my currently-reading shelf after the first two pages so that I could bask unhindered in the spell this book cast on me.The Snow Child is a retelling of the Russian fairy-tale Snegurochka or The Snow Maiden.
The Snow Child constantly hovers on the border between illusion and reality, which may either be the book's strongest point or it's undoing, because if you think about the plot too long, many threads come untethered and threaten to unravel.Jack and Mabel are some of the realest characters I've ever encountered.
This was a sister read with Norma. We did the review together and posted it on her reviews.If you are interested it can also be found on our blog as well http://www.twogirlslostinacouleereadi...
And so I fancied a fairytale and it did me the world of good!!!This is the story of Jack and Mabel a childless couple who move to Alaska to farm and to etch a living from the harsh and frozen land.
Is she real or a just imagined by Mabel and Jack?There is so much to love about this story, I was so excited to read an adult fairytale, The details of Pioneer life in Alaska are beautifully written along with the description of the harsh winter environment and the animals naive to this country.
I, is for Ivey 5 StarsI'll let you in on a little secret *shhhhh* I love fairy tales, and the darker they are the better I like them. There is something so intriguing to me about the extremity of these stories, they appeal my twisted little brain. Oftentimes in darker, Grimm-style tales the punishment is so unsuitable for the indiscretion. It reminds me of "Hannibal" and his penchant for serving up people who are rude to him for dinner. So EXTREME, so deliciously *snicker* finite. I mention the
5 StarsI'll let you in on a little secret *shhhhh* I love fairy tales, and the darker they are the better I like them.
There is something so intriguing to me about the extremity of these stories, they appeal my twisted little brain.
This isn’t that type of story.
The Snow Child is set in the 1920’s in the brutal and uncompromising land of Alaska.
The Snow Child is a beautiful and raw tale.
I would recommend this story to anyone who loves darker fairy tales and/or stories of human resourcefulness and survival.
"It was beautiful, Mabel knew, but it was a beauty that ripped you open and scouted you clean so that you were left helpless and exposed, if you lived at all."What a beautiful, harsh and wintry tale!
An odd pick for me to read in June/July but I felt like I was right there in deepest Alaska, with the powerful landscapes and dark winters.
One day they build a girl out of snow and so begins a magical tale of a girl born to the snow and ice, who visits during the wintertime but flees as soon as the snow starts melting.
“In my old age, I see that life itself is often more fantastic and terrible than the stories we believed as children, and that perhaps there is no harm in finding magic among the trees.”   Many Russian folk tales feature a common character known as Snegurochka (the Snow Maiden). She is the daughter of the immortal Gods: Father Frost and Mother Spring, and she usually goes to live with humans to care for an elderly couple who have no children. Some folk tales feature her as a girl unable to kno
Some folk tales feature her as a girl unable to know love until Mother Spring takes pity and gives her this ability, but as soon as she falls in love, her heart warms her and she melts.
I found The Snow Child to be absolutely stunning and I can't believe I waited this long to read it.
To believe, perhaps you had to cease looking for explanations and instead hold the little thing in your hands as long as you were able before it slipped like water between your fingers.”12/20/2017: Such a lovely story with stunning writing.
A little long but I absolutely loved it overall.
