https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110333.The_Anti_Federalist_Papers_and_the_Constitutional_Convention_Debates
After you read the federalist papers it is so mind blowing to read the counter arguments. Both are such a study in government and propaganda. Again, I would recommend reading these essays over any american history text book to anyone that wants to really understand our government. They are facinating.
Previously in agricultural and quasi-anarchist societies, the commune or district mediated the tax burden between the man and government.(8) Since the number of representatives is so small, the ones who represent will always be part of the monied elite (e.g., Goldman Sachs, Koch brothers, etc).(9) Interestingly enough, the anti-Federalists appear to reject the idea, quite republican in itself, of the Senate electing the president (252).
However, smaller republics like Kazakhstan and larger countries like China can band together with Russia in an economic alliance that would counter any move the Atlanticists make.
I enjoy this even more than the federalist papers, really interesting to anyone who cares about politics or the nature of political thought in this country. This is where it all started.
I would argue that the anti-Federalists' papers are more important than those of the Federalists. I predicate this on the belief that greater comprehension of the status quo comes through studying that which dissents from it. Believe that or not, either way if you had a teacher who forced you to read the Federalist papers and not the anti-Federalist papers, he was most assuredly a fascist.
Kind of tough to read, but if you want to know what went wrong with the country, it's that these guys were right.
Reasoning more emotional than logical compared to the Federalist Papers and considering what we know of the complex workings of the world today.
The Anti-Federalist Papers were written less in response to the Federalist arguments than I had anticipated.
The true discussion was between the Anti-Federalist Papers and the Constitution itself.
The Anti-Federalist Papers were not less enjoyable a read for all that; in fact, they were impassioned, with moments of stunningly powerful rhetoric.
Their downfall lay more in the repetition of or contradiction between the different arguments, the natural result of their not having been designed to be a cohesive whole, unlike the Federalist Papers.
That being the case, my primary interest was historic rather than philosophic in nature.
The Constitutional Convention debates were a whole other matter though.
Also a HUGE realization that I can’t put down a book once I start it.
Prohibition, removing the prohibition, ending slavery, women getting the right to vote, gosh it was all so great to read how we’ve evolved.
Still...a very dry book to read only when not about to fall asleep.Otherwise very thought provoking.
Loved hearing how the constitution evolved to what it became and the reasons behind it...even hearing the reasons against it were actually very valid because I feel that we are at the point of some of the things they warned against.
This all just gets the mind going.
I'm very thankful for Hemingway.
The new American republic struggled to devise a system of government that would work for the "average" citizen by creating checks and balances to each aspect of the federal system: the executive, the legislative, and the judicial.
After reading the Federalist Papers (and living under the system it advocated), I expected the Anti-Federalist Papers to be the equivalent of the unhinged diatribes of today's political conservatives.
Not all of their arguments are cogent today, but if you are interested in the history of the American republic and the way our federal government was conceived and carried into practice, this book is essential reading.
Very difficult to read and understand but also very interesting to discover more about the governmental beliefs of the founding fathers and what influenced them. The same goes for the Federalist Papers.
This book was definitely not my style, as I don't appeal to such books. But overall seeing the cleverness of the writing was very neat.
Not everyone agreed w/ Hamilton, Madison, and Jay
Had to give up on this book, my eyes not what they once were- the print too small
Students of US History have likely read the Federalist papers, or some of them, and even if they haven't , they refer to them.
Some of their thoughts and criticisms are not only timely, some seemed ripped right out of todays news from voices of both the Right and the Left.Some of these source documents were redundant, some were a bit boring to my taste, but over all , I was whelmed by the wisdom and depth of analysis.
After the Declaration of Independence and the Colonial Rebellion, a Constitutional Convention was held by our founding fathers to draft the founding documents of our nation in 1787.
Until that time, our national politics was based on the Articles of Confederation 1777.
Their arguments in favor of the immediate ratification of the draft presented by the Constitutional Convention are found in The Federalist Papers.
In answer to the Federalist articles, there were the Anti-Federalists who also wrote responses called the Anti-Federalist Papers against the immediate ratification of the Constitution voicing concern of the loss of liberty to a government that might turn into what we fought to free ourselves from in the revolution.
I really enjoyed reading the Anti-Federalist Papers.
Before reading the book, I had thought of those who didn’t sign the Constitution at the Convention as …not bright enough to get it.
This has opened up the doors for much of the fears of the Anti-Federalists to come about.
I personally think both the Federalist and the Anti-Federalists would unite in condemning the 17th Amendment as destroying the separation of powers and checks and balances the original Constitution was intended to have.
Although far from being a comprehensive collection of Anti-Federalist writings, it provides an excellent summary of key points of debate in the shaping of the U.S. Constitution.
The book then moved on to James Madison's notes on the Federal Convention of 1787 where the Constitution was born, showing the lively debate regarding the structure of government we think of a natural today.
All of these provide strong arguments against the Constitution and the discussion of how much power could be trusted in the hands of a central, Federal government.
I have nothing interesting to say.
I know very little about the Anti-Federalists, other than the pro-"small government" idea, since according to the blurb, "Although the Anti-Federalists lost, they came close to winning..."They say the winners write the history books...*EDIT*Another 1776 moment...Edward Rutledge saying that slavery has to do with interest, not religion, and that South Carolinans and Georgians are not such fools as to abolish slavery...Eerily close to the musical...guess the producers did their homework...Ooh, I feel like such a history geek for knowing about Edward Rutledge!...I'm not really, I know, but it's a nice feeling...*EDIT*...John Rutledge, Edward Rutledge...eh...they say the same sort of things!
Okay, being a collection of primary source documents it seems a bit silly to rate them.
This edition especially gave some keen insights into the process by which our country was created, the players, their thoughts.
The things I have always taken for granted about our government and the way it runs.
I don't know that this would be fun reading for all, but if you can throw yourself back into the mindset of the unsettling reality that the whole "America" thing could have really broken up or held together based on these ideas is impressive.
How many countries get a start like that?
This is a compilation of articles written by men who opposed the ratification of the Constitution of the United States, or at least had some reservations about it as it had been originally written.
These articles provide a thorough understanding of the arguments for and against the constitution as presented at the Constitutional Convention.
The book also includes a copy of the Articles of Confederation, the document the colonies held before the ratification of the constitution.
I felt this book was a challenging read, but well worth the time and effort to get a glimpse into the minds of some of our found fathers.
The Federalist Papers were written primarily (at the time at least) by men who were arguing in favor a large centralized federal government, and even a central bank independent from the government itself (later to become The Fed).
The lead writer of the Federalist Papers was knowingly supported by and an agent of the European bankers (even argued in favor of a monarchy).
The writers of the Anti-Federalist Papers were arguing in favor of the original American ideals of true freedom and liberty, and foresaw the tyranny of which they had just fought so hard to get out from under.
The most fascinating part of this book is the Constitutional Convention debates, via Madison's daily journal. The day-to-day accounts of the major events in the construction of the U.S. government remind you that the people who organized the American government were really just a bunch of guys in a room who'd been allowed the unusual privilege to organize their ideal political system. The only question was what did that look like and how would it actually work? Really strips away the facade of heroism around the Founding Fathers.
Needless to say, I wasn't rooting for Patrick Henry during his anti-federalist discussion. However, it does give you a list of accomplishments under the Articles of Confederation. For example, under the A of C, America won the Revolutionary War.
It was good to read this to get the perspective of those who believed in something that didn't come to be the reality of what America is. However, when read with the Federalist Papers, the Anti-Federalist Papers really couldn't hold a candle to them.
I loved seeing the opposing views of the makers of our Constitution, especially the views expressed by the unknown Federal Farmer. He drew out some really good points about the House of Representatives not being adequately represented, among other things.
This would make a decent book for a class, but otherwise you are better off just finding the complete anti-federalist works and Madison's notes on the Constitutional Convention online. Both are definitely worth reading.
Nice collection of Anti-Federalist papers. Extremely useful to have the other side of the story. Not definitive, but the book to start with for the side of the story of our founding that has received much less attention.
A must-read for anyone curious about America, or the origins of the system of government in which we find ourselves. In particular, it's good to note the predictions made of some of the Anti-Federalists, and how, sadly, they were exactly right about the nature of this government.
I hoped it would have a little more of the actual anti-federalist papers, but it is still a great read. Understanding what was being discussed during the birth or our country should be required reading in schools!
