https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/425377.Lord_of_Scoundrels
This is my favorite book of all time (well, tied with Jane Eyre).
How could I not want to know and fall in love with a hero who is so tortured?Enter Jessica, the best heroine ever written (other than Jane Eyre).
But they are incredibly effective, because of the passion between Jessica and Dain, and the deep caring and love they feel for each other.
One of my many favorite scenes is when Dain acknowledges his illegitimate son, knowing he loves him, even though he is just as ugly as Dain was as a child, and is filthy and covered in vomit.
Now I feel like I kicked a puppy because everybody told me to read this book and that it would be wonderful.It was beautifully written, sure.And it had a lot of scenery change that consumed a big chunk of time,while other HR usually happen in a matter of days,or if they do not,we just get a FIVE WEEKS LATER insert and then the story unnaturally moves on.But the characters!
But they were so poorly portrayed I just saw a winy grown up man that didn’t like or trust anybody and used his childhood as an excuse.He had a few bright moments when he talked nice things in Italian or when he told Jess he would kill himself if she left him.
A poor match, an unhappy relationship, and a child who bears the brunt of it all.Lucia was truly only a spoiled young woman herself when she gave birth to a son, Sebastian.
“You are to stop plaguing the servants about your mother,” his father told him.
We will speak of it no more.”I felt it important to include that snippet in this review, because it speaks volumes about what Sebastian's young life was like.
You have Jessica Trent who has grown into a capable young woman who is determined to save her brother from the now grown Sebastian’s evil influence.
Damn the minx for tempting him, kissing him ... and then forcing him to salvage her reputation! Lord Dain can't wait to put the infuriating bluestocking in her place --- and in some amorous position, And if that means marriage, so be it! --- though Sebastian is less than certain he can continue to remain aloof ... and steel his heart to the sensuous, headstrong lady's considerable charms.  I really enjoyed this book. Sebastian, tortured, shunned by his father. Jessica, sweet, independent, prou
"I think you had better stick to English." "But Italian is so moving," Dain said.
I just wanted to take you and hug you and tell you that you were worthy of love.First time reading this author.
I think they book has been on my kindle for over 3 years.
Not sure why I hadn't read it prior to now.I even woke up the other night talking about the Duke (or the "Dook" as Himself called him) - Himself asked me what I was talking about and I said it was the cows....
LOL, you will have to read it to get it.
222 books.
The story, the witty dialogue, the oh-so-complicated hero, the take-no-guff heroine, the whole love/hate thing between the H/h--it was at times funny, sad, frustrating, but there was never a dull moment.
I don't think I've ever read about a more messed up, tortured hero.
I also loved how he and Jess were so passionately attracted to each other, but didn't want to be--animal lust, I think they called it.
Wonderful storytelling.A minor quibble--I got a little tired of reading about Dain's supposedly huge nose (I get it--his nose was big) and the reference to him as Beelzebub--that just sounded too ugly, and in my head Dain was one giant, sexy man who just desperately needed some lovin'.
I was utterly charmed by the unconventional love story between Lord Dain and Jessica Trent.
Jessica Trent is one of the best heroines I've read of all time.
By the end of the book, I totally and utterly besotted with Dain and felt for him even though some of his thoughts were truly horridly misogynistic.
The only explanation I could find for it, aside from her skillful writing, was the fact that Jessica was the best and the perfect heroine for Dain.
I'll definitely be reading this one again on my Kindle because while I enjoyed listening to it, I would much prefer imagining Jessica and Dain's voice on my own in my head.
It's the most unhappy people who most fear change. -Mignon McLaughlin- And this time, the grown man asked, with the same despair a little boy had asked, decades ago: Why will You not help me? It's the kind of romance with hero like Dain, someone whose pain was hurting me too. I wanted to tell him that I know, I understand. I wanted to reach him, hug him, soothe him, This time, he felt as lost and helpless as that little boy had been, trying to understand why his Heavenly Father had made him wron
It's the kind of romance with hero like Dain, someone whose pain was hurting me too.
It's the kind of romance with heroine like Jess, someone I wanted to have as a sister because I admired her, 
It's the kind of romance that held my breath and sent shivers through my body, 
She held up her fan in front of his face, to display the masculine scribbling upon the sticks.
“Do you see ‘Beelzebub’ written there?”“I’m not shortsighted,” he said, extracting the fan from her tense fingers.
Dain fanned himself.The man paused.
It's the kind of romance with the best kiss that made my nerves jumped,
Written December 13, 20145 Huge Stars - Hilarious chuckling fun audiobook listening. - Great plot, amusing banters and wicked characters         A by many readers highly beloved historical romance. The hilarious enjoying story about Sebastian Ballister, the notorious Marquess of Dain and Lady Jessica Trent. Written already 1995. I've listened to the 11:39 hrs audiobook narrated by Kate Reading. “You'll want all your strength for the wedding night.”“I cannot think why I should need strength,” she
The hilarious enjoying story about Sebastian Ballister, the notorious Marquess of Dain and Lady Jessica Trent.
The trouble is, the devil in question is so shockingly irresistible, and the person who needs the most saving is, in the end - herself.A storyline as done for funny giggling banters, amusing talk and gossip in the fine salons in Paris, and a angry snorting sniffing depraved English Devil-Marquess.
Perfect to pick up when I need to get a good laugh and be reminded of why I like this old style of light-hearted historical romances so very much.
Aquí siempre he pensado que la figura de la abuela me justifica un comportamiento total fuera de situación, pero es que segura estoy de que en aquel tiempo también hubo mujeres que no se conformaron con decir sí a lo que se les dijera.
Siempre digo que me encantan este tipo de protagonistas femeninas y, al mismo tiempo que me encantan los hombres de la Kleypas, siempre me han encantado las mujeres de Chase.Dain...
por eso ese sublime prólogo.En muchos aspectos me gusta esta novela tanto porque, a golpe de sonrisa y carcajada, con diálogos inteligentes e irónicos (son mi perdición) plasma con una pasmosa seriedad muchos de los comportamientos de la época que en otras románticas se obvian.
5 stars for the first half, 2 for the latter. Overall, 3.5 stars
She agrees because she really does like him and would rather be a rich wife to a Marquess than exhiled to a small house in the country for the rest of her life (take notes other historical authors - it isn't resonable for a regency heroine to turn down an offer of marriage and live the rest of her life destitute simply because a man didn't say he loved you).Jessica realizes that Dain has quite a few personal demons.
Jessica was such a good strong heroine who knew what she was getting into but decided it was worth the effort because she loved Dain.
Maravillosa historia, personajes muy fuertes, que destacan por su manera de ser y que se combinan a la perfección. Creo que esta historia funciona gracias al personaje femenino, que no tiene la piel fina, es una mujer con arrestos y siente debilidad por Dain, cuyo temperamento es muy complicado y ella sabe llevarlo. He disfrutado cada página :)
Me encanta este libro y esta pareja. Mi opinión sobre este libro la describen muy bien las haggards en esta crítica: http://alacamaconunlibro.blogspot.com...Sólo de pensar que me lo tengo que volver a leer para el #RetoRita, me puede la emoción. Pues leído otra vez y no puedo más que expresar mi amor de nuevo por sus protagonistas, me encantan. Libro 20 del #RetoRita#campañaromantica: relectura de uno de mis libros favoritos
His upbringing was tragic, what, with a distant and ruthless father who hated his sons very presence, to a young and tormented mother who felt the need to abandon her child to save her own sanity.Being made to feel different and odd, being made to feel unworthy for his mixed heritage was daunting at best.
She saw the beauty and strength of Dain right away.
I loved how Dain was stunned to learn how she saw him: as a strong and virile, gorgeous male.
{Lo leí hace más de un mes y se me olvidó ponerlo!!}Es MUY, MUY bonito. Sobre todo el inicio:-Un prólogo de cuento escrito magistralmente.-El primer encuentro entre la pareja: divertidísimo.-Los diálogos entre ambos, los rifi-rafes, las ironías... Ainss.-El "a fuego lento" de ese amor.-Un prota desestereotipado. Una prota impresionante.Se lee del tirón.
Además de que mi debilidad son las historias tipo "bella y la bestia" me ha encantado la química entre los protagonistas desde el primer momento.
Los encontronazos con ellos al principio del libro no tienen comparación!!!!
No recuerdo haberme sentido tan a gusto antes con un personaje femenino y debo admitir que el carácter de Jess junto con su manera de llevar las situaciones me hicieron querer quitarme el sombrero ante ella..
Pfffffffff me tuvo derretida desde el inicio del libro hasta el final..
En serio, uno de esos personajes que con su primera aparición en el libro ya te tiene tendida a sus pies..
"A monster he may be, but he was her monster."Buddy read with Raquel and Ashlee :)♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦QUICK NOTES:♦ I loved the heroine!
She went on my favorite heroine shelf.
However, he's also an unforgettable character and the slow, steady fall he does for Jessica is what romance is all about.♦ I'm not sure I ever read such wonderful back and forth banter between two people.
♦ I can't even tell you how hilarious I found it every time she called him Beelzebub!♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦A FEW QUOTES: -- "Miss Trent," he said, "I am sure all the other girls at school found your wit hilarious.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI read this book for the Unapologetic Romance Readers' New Years 2017 Reading Challenge. For more info about what this is, click here.LORD OF SCOUNDRELS has been on my to-read list for five years, so I was delighted when it was selected as the book of the month for the Unapologetic Romance Readers monthly read. One of my favorite romance pairings is the no-nonsense shrew with the duke of slut. I was expecting something along the lines of An
For more info about what this is, click here.LORD OF SCOUNDRELS has been on my to-read list for five years, so I was delighted when it was selected as the book of the month for the Unapologetic Romance Readers monthly read.
It's worth noting that both of these books also have a very odd scene about desperately having to go to the bathroom and also desperately needing to talk about it, as at one point, Dain tells Jess that sex will have to wait because he needs to drain the main vein: "I can't wait around to pick you up.
5/5Sólo puedo decir "MARAVILLOSO!!!!"Me ha encantado, ha merecido la pena pasar por los dos anteriores para conocer a Dain, que "patán" mas estupendo. Y no digamos de Jess, otra estupenda protagonista.Tenía las expectativas muy altas pero no me ha defraudado ni un poco.Maravilloso, maravilloso...
(I did love Dain’s mental dictionary and his additions to it) Jess calmed Dain fears about him hurting her calling himself a ox of a man to his dainty wife.
Dain was so unsure about himself and the way he acted toward his child thinking he killed him by just picking him up roughly, Jess being small didn’t mean she didn’t pack a big punch.
Understanding, things many people take for granted and your shown through Dain how much that effects him and Jess having to show him it was okay to feel that way, but always there to give him that extra push.
This was my first reading of a Loretta Chase novel, and I will definitely be seeking out other books written by her in the future.
Independent heroines can often become irritating to me, but Jessica was a thorough delight, a wonderful mix of charm, wit, strength, and heartfelt devotion.
Jessica's grandmother, Genevieve, was a delightful secondary character who was full of wit and charm herself.
I believe that Captives of the Night and Lord of Scoundrels basically take place simultaneously, but Captives of the Night was written first.
I found Lord of Scoundrels to be a thoroughly enjoyable book, that has definitely earned a place on my keeper shelf.
Having read this book praised all over the net, I confess I was a bit afraid of being disappointed. In the end, I WAS somewhat disappointed, because it didnt wowed me as much as I expected. I really liked LOS, but it's not my #1 all-time favorite book.What I loved:1- The hero and the heroine, Jessica and Dain, were not like the standard characters so common in historical romances, that is, the gorgeous hero and the naive heroine. From the beginning, I was captivated by characters who "broke the
I really liked LOS, but it's not my #1 all-time favorite book.What I loved:1- The hero and the heroine, Jessica and Dain, were not like the standard characters so common in historical romances, that is, the gorgeous hero and the naive heroine.
His inital refusing to accept his bastard son wasn't something to be admired either.2- The secondary characters, especially that awful Beaumont and that silly Ainswood, were like "caricatures" and didn´t have much depth.All things considered, it was still a book worth reading and I had a pleasant time doing it.
Me encanta, es de lo más delicioso que he leído de Loretta Chase.
Dain, un auténtico bruto, crápula, con mal carácter y además no es el típico protagonista guapo, con una infancia de menosprecio por parte de su padre.
Ya considerada una solterona, tiene un carácter fuerte e independiente y está acostumbrada a tratar con hombres, especialmente con su hermano Bertie que es un "cabeza loca".Qué maravillosa la tozudez de Jess y la arrogancia de Dain.
Sus encontronazos son maravillosos.El gran y arrogante Dain y la pequeña y tozuda Jess, incompatibles pero tan atraídos el uno por el otro.
Mi cara de oso panda de hoy bien vale la pena😂 porque esta novela es tan perfecta, de la primera letra hasta la última, que se ha convertido para mi en uno de mis favoritas forever.Me ha encantado absolutamente todo y estoy totalmente enamorada de esta pareja.Dain es irresistible, me tiene a sus pies con ese carisma que lo caracteriza, y Jess es una maravilla de protagonista femenina, la he adorado desde el principio.
De verdad que esas 5 ☆ no son suficientes para valorar lo que me ha gustado y lo mucho que he disfrutado este libro.
Nope, aún sigo sin ver lo que ven todos los demás.
¿Todos esos ratings de 5 estrellas?
No los entiendo.
Si las categorías de los Goodreads Choice Awards fueran distintas Lord of Scoundrels sería el Phelps de los libros, acabaría con todas las medallas: peor retelling de La Bella y La Bestia (una hazaña increíble considerando que nunca pensé encontrar algo inferior a Cruel Beauty), peor romance histórico, peor desarrollo de personajes, peores personajes, peores diálogos, peor trama, peores 375 páginas de mi vida...Una historia aburrida, y terriblemente ridícula, que asegura que nunca más vuelva a leer nada de Loretta Chase.
Hay libros que se meten en tus venas y de ahí no salen y eso me pasa con este libro, nunca tengo bastante de él y, cada vez que lo leo y lo termino, me dan ganas de volverlo a leer.
Los protagonistas me enamoran a más no poder y el modo en el que está escrito, con esos diálogos...
Es que no puedo encontrar otra palabra para definirlo que no sea "perfección.
Si merece la pena leer novela romántica para mí es por libros como éste, una verdadera joya y, por supuesto, uno de mis más favoritos #5GandysSuperplus.------------
un libro
SETTING: Paris, France and England (various locations), 1828Summary (from the back cover)"Tough-minded Jessica Trent's sole intention is to free her nitwit brother from the destructive influence of Sebastian Ballister, the notorious Marquess of Dain.
I still don't like the cookie-cutter stereotyped characters, however, and Bertie Trent, Jessica's "nitwit" brother, is definitely one of those.
It is horrible that Sebastian's mother was married to a man old enough to be her father, but she didn't really seem like a very good mother to begin with, and the fact that she left him alone with his father, when she knew what a cold and horrible man her husband was, was not something that I view as easily forgivable, which is how Jessica tries to depict it.
De esos libros que dan pena terminarlos, me gustó los diálogos entre los protagonista y como se fue desarrollando la historia de amor. “Una bella y bestia diferente”
#RetoRita1 Simplemente una delicia de lectura, me ha encantado.Había momentos que no quería terminar de leer el libro de lo mucho que lo estaba disfrutando.Que me ha gustado Jessica y Sebastian, el carácter de ambos, esos piques desde el principio, y todos sus momentos!!!Lo dicho me ha parecido una historia perfecta, me ha parecido entretenida, bien escrita y voy a seguir leyendo los demás libros de esta serie, espero que sean igual que este o mejor! ;)
He gets himself into a brawl and drinks himself senseless on their wedding night, he decides he doesn't want to consummate the marriage all of a sudden due to some crazy fear he'll hurt her in the act, Jessica finally seduces him into taking her but afterward Sebastian deliberately acts callus towards her, only showing affection when making love.
Sebastian doesn't even admit to Jessica that he loves her until literally 3 pages before the end of the book.
But in here he doesn't really change, he just says a lame 'I'm sorry' and not even until the last few pages of the book.
