https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1649088.The_Forgotten_Daughter
This was my number one book from ages 8-13. It has everything you need, including alot of swinging across rapids on a hanging vine while wearing a diaphanous chiton. So good!
I would give this one a 3.5. Snedeker tells a sweet story rich in historical fiction, and as you're enjoying the tale, she educates you on life in Italy and Rome, ca. 200 B.C. You do get bits here and there of the patrimony of Snedeker's age, and her mislocation of Samnia as being in the North of Italy (rather than its central position just east of Rome) was slightly distracting. Still, it's charming, and it brings back memories of my youthful infatuation with all things ancient Greece and Rome.
Interesting setting (ancient Rome), but I found the story a little hard to follow.
In the middle of the story the focus shifted from Melissa and Chloe to their neighbor Aulus, a Roman citizen.
Aulus, in Rome, gets caught up in a violent political debate.
A lot of new characters with similar names are introduced and it was a little hard to keep track.
The story was told in the 3rd person so I found it harder to relate to the characters.
The author made a couple interesting comments about Rome at that time compared to America at that time (1933)
**Spoilers** The main character is "The Forgotten Daughter".
The plot starts with her mother who is captured by the Romans, she ends up falling in love and marrying one of the officers.
The husband is called away to Rome by his father, and during that time the mother along with her daughter are thrown out of the main house.
The mother ends up dying, and to prevent the daughter from being sold off she is taken by a faithful servant, and raised in the forest.
Years later the daughter meets a young Roman, falls in love, and is separated.
She also ends up meeting her estranged father.
I remember first reading this book as a kid. My Dad was in the Navy, and we were stationed in Greece for 3 years. While there, I read everything I could get my hands on that was set in ancient Greece, Egypt and Rome. This is a good, solid story with believeable characters. The historical facts and characters read "real"--and are accurate. It gives a feel for what life must have been like in the Roman world.
Despite the moderate star rating I gave this book, it's one of my all-time favorite "comfort" books — the kind you read strictly because you're a sap. I was lucky enough to grab a copy of the hardback edition when it was withdrawn from my junior-high library! The spine is in pieces now, but the words are intact. It looks like it was released in paperback a few years ago, but is out-of-print again.
My favorite book of all time.This novel gives readers a view of greek life and ideals, though stretches the imagination a little. It's the story that every little girl imagines for her life.
I love all things Rome. The only downside to this book was the author's social commentary and too much historical detail that really didn't have much to do with her plot. Otherwise, it was cute.
The story is of young Chloe, daughter of Chloe of the isle of Lesbos who was taken as a slave by a Roman named Lavineus.
C has a son who dies young, L is called back to Rome, is told C has died in childbirth with a stillborn girl-child, and marries properly.
Except the girl-child isn't stillborn, she is hidden away by her mother's slave/hand-maid/friend Melissa, and is raised as a slave on the country estate.
There is also a fictionalized history of the state of Roman Republic, ca.
There is also a complete POV shift from Chloe the Younger to Aulus the patrician neighbor to tell that bit of Roman history.
The Forgotten Daughter is a historically accurate novel written by Caroline Dale Snedeker which centres it's story around the life of young Chloé, the daughter of Lævinus and Chloé.
This story tells the life of Chloé who worked as a slave, even though her (living) father was of high status (spoiler: it later on states that he had no knowledge of Chloé).
The story is a journey through Chloé's life as a loom worker who, with the companionship of Melissa (her mother's friend), grows into a fine woman.
4 stars instead of 5 only because it didn't make me cry. A beautiful novel that contains the story of Tiberius Gracchus, almost word for word from Plutarch, and yet somehow it works. A well-crafted plot, beautiful language, a slice of life near the end of the Roman Republic, and a gentle romance.
It took some time to get involved in the story but then I was hooked.
Chloe is a teenage girl who lives with her guardian Melissa in a cottage on a country estate of the ancient Roman Republic.
A few years later Aulus, who has been away at war, returns to Rome to help his friend, the tribune Tiberius Gracchus, make reforms, but when Tiberius is murdered by the Senate, Aulus is banished from Rome and hides out at his family’s country estate.
However, Aulus’s father has the banishment reversed, and as Aulus prepares to return to Rome, they part on less than friendly terms.
I read this book so many times, that my copy doesn't have the pages at the beginning or the end of the book.
I let my daughters read it but of course neither one of them really cared for the book, they thought it was a little slow (well to each her own) nonetheless I love this book.
The book make a wonderful comparison of Greek and Roman world views in simple language, but it is also a heartwarming tale of love, loss and forgiveness.
The Forgotten Daughter of the title is young Chloe, offspring of an upper class Roman and a Greek slave.
Then we read about the struggles of her friend, Melissa, and her daughter, also named Chloe, who grows up hating her deadbeat father.Then the plot suddenly changes and we're with a young guy, Aulus, who goes into Rome to try to help his friend who is way ahead of his time.
Anyway, he gets into political danger, which over 2000 years ago meant actual danger as well.And then the plot gradually becomes a story of two Star-Crossed lovers, Chloe and Aulus, though that doesn't come across as strongly as the author seems to think it does.
I am not sure if it was because the way it is written or I just wasn’t too interested.
Chloe lives a very interesting life.
I do not strongly recommend this book compared to some of my other readings, but I would not disregard it because it does have a good lesson on forgiveness and love.The quote that stuck out to me in this book is:"It is strange how people try to mend their lives when the garment is torn to shreds.
It is strange, too, how life's garment, unlike human weaving, grows whole with the mending" (p.
I read this in 1969 in my middle school library.
I loved it.
Over the years I forgot the title and the author but never the story.
I would google story points and even wrote my school librarian.
She returned my email but couldn't help.
Finally I hit on the right combination and found it!!
You never know if it will hold up through the years.
But it still had the magic.
Yes it is a fairytale, yes the ending is improbable but that's why it's a story not history.
The thing was it still gave me chills at all the right places.
I'm wibbling between three and four stars. On the three-starred-hand is the fact that 1930s sap is here in abundance, that it was sadly predictable, the little pointless side-trip in the middle of the book, and there was no tragic ending. (It needed one.)On the four-starred-hand is Snedeker's lovely writing, her engaging story-line, and fascinating setting. (And I love the way she wrote about slaves--very historically rather than politically correct. Hooray for that!)What think you?
This is almost a nonfiction book, filled full of historical facts. Taken from her home in Lesbos, Chloe's mother became the wife of her Roman captor, who left her before Chloe's birth. After her death, Chloe grows up raised by a fellow Lesbian, Melissa, as a slave in her own father's estate. Hating him and all Romans, she slowly makes friends with a neighboring Roman patrician. When he leaves, feeling her beneath him, she runs away in desperation.
I read this book too many years ago to mention and every now and then something calls it back to mind. At that age I was fascinated by all things Greek and Roman and that is how the story caught my eye, but beyond that it is a wonderful story, well told.I remember not knowing how to pronounce the name Chloe.
Okay, I have to find a copy of this book!! I saw this on Goodreads, and I'm just about sure it's that same book I read when I was about 14, and have thought about again and again over the years. But it's a very old book, (although a Newbery honor), and none of my libraries have it, and a copy on Amazon is too expensive...anybody have one?
I have to get this book & read it again. I haven't read it since I was around 8. But is has never left my memory. I googled "ancient Rome, slave girl, childrens book" to find the title again. I just remember I found a dusty old copy at my grandmother's house & I'd read it all the time. Will order soon & update my review.
I loved this book. I read it in two nights, staying up late to see what would happen. The three main characters are very well developed and the historical background on Rome, just before the fall, was extremely informative to me. Highly recommend.
An excellent book that conveys both a flavor of ancient Greece and republican Rome. Includes Tiberius Gracchus' fight in the Senate for small farmers as well as the poetry of Greece. The writing is descriptive and poetic, yet not overdone with an exciting plot.
I loved this book as a kid. It's one that stuck with me through out the years (I even named my daughter after the main character). I need to order a copy off of amazon for my kids; I'd like to see what they think about it.
This was a good book! It was a lot different than I thought it would be. Not a book I would normally read but I am glad I gave it a try!
Good book for young adult and older. It has drama, love, adventure, and a glimpse into the days of Rome.
Old YA historical fiction. Interesting and more engaging than I thought. I've never read much about this kind of early Roman life.
most amazing story I've read in a long time! I just love everything! the arthurs way of writing, not a super heavy read, loved the storyline and historicalness of it!! really good read!
I read this book in elementary school and have read it at least once every other year since. Something about this book is very beautiful, like it's the original fairy tale.
