https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/612765.The_Urantia_Book
It is not purely religious or philosophical as it provides concrete ways to see, believe, live, and act, in order to become a better person and find happiness, meaning, and fulfillment.
To new readers, I recommend looking through the contents and reading sections that interest you, rather than reading all 2000+ pages from beginning to end the first time around.
this is a book for all open-minded people who like to think and who are searching for the truth.
After reading the book for 20 years, I wanted to discuss it with other readers (who are hard to find, by the way!
I read some of it then, at 14 I asked her, "You do realize this book says we evolve from aliens don't you?" I found it after she died, while cleaning out her house, and read it cover to cover.
My favorite sections are the history of Earth (Urantia) and the intricate story behind the 20+ years of Jesus' life not covered in the New Testament.
Earth is a distant outpost; alien intervention is the administative system of God's cosmos; Jesus is the Son of God; the battle between good and evil on Earth has specific and fascinating origins.
You will never view ancient aliens or ancient history in quite the same way.
Overall, I have a 99+% belief in this not-channelled, but esoteric work.It's one of the VERY RARE books which I've reread every few years, always finding that my added experience allows new insights.The symmetry, beauty, and grandeur of it's concepts is breathtaking & mind-blowing.
Rereading the UB (Urantia Book) reminds me how little I know or have experienced, and how incredibly vast and inspiring the universe is.2 days ago (10/16/12) I just started reading the UB again, copying quotes from papers 1-15 that I feel will help me in my present life (e.g. wisdom just at the edge of my understanding...)
These high levels of human living are attained in the supreme love of God and in the unselfish love of man.
If you love your fellow men, you must have discovered their values.
Jesus loved men so much because he placed such a high value upon them.
100:4.5 In the mind's eye conjure up a picture of one of your primitive ancestors of cave-dwelling times—a short, misshapen, filthy, snarling hulk of a man standing, legs spread, club upraised, breathing hate and animosity as he looks fiercely just ahead.
Love is only born of thoroughgoing understanding of your neighbor's motives and sentiments.
As someone who had spent decades on the study of both exoteric and esoteric teachings and so-called revelations I had never come across a work that would even come close to the UB’s massive length (over two thousand pages), it quasi-scientific presentments, its claim to be a chronicle of the creation and history of the earth and the universe, its revision of Biblical texts and the complete biography of Jesus (including the “missing years”) and a proposition that mankind belongs to distinctive racial groups whose individual traits are to play a major role in human engineering and the organization of social endeavours for the betterment of human progress.
First of all, this book is not for everyone.
I feel this book is way ahead of it's time.
Now many of the ideas presented in this book contradict Christianity and virtually all dogma in some form or another.
If you don't buy into this concept in any way shape or form, this book will be a complete waste of time.
However, if you do buy into it, this is probably the most brilliant, in depth piece of writing you'll ever come across.
So you've got this book mostly written in the 30s by a bunch of freaky weirdies.
Most people focus on the overwhelming cosmology at the beginning of the book, or the biography of Christ at the end; both those sections just drag after a while and don't have much to add.
I got into the middle sections, the philosophical/scientific bits, and found it a more satisfying read.
I'm not surprised that most Urantia society members are doctors and scientists; I found myself swayed by the angels' arguments the further I got into the work.
This review was meant for the hardcover edition  The Urantia Book.
I count this freedom from dogma as the main reason I was able to read this book and judge it on its own.
It has certainly changed my life, and will do the same for anyone who assimilates this book into their own life.
While you must do your own work and make your own progress, the rewards are infinite.
Too many people will come to this with preconceived notions of what religion is as well as their own indoctrination into what I call 'evolutionary belief systems." Give 'em up people, they're the very thing that stifles your progress.
Hands down the most amazing, powerful, transforming and enlightening book on the planet. That this is not the most lightweight read would be an understatement. If you get into this book, you'll be reading it for life, and the more you read the more amazing the whole picture becomes. And once the significance of the book itself (a one-of-a-kind epochal revelation) is grasped, one's perspective of this crazy backward planet earth in time and space, will be changed forever.
The Urantia Book is the only book I've read over and over again, each reading more amazing than the last.I'm not going to attempt to describe the contents - it is in the public domain - grab a copy and become a citizen of the universe of universes.
The celestial beings, or the human author purporting to be celestial beings were certainly well read on the scientific views of their time, so it comes across as an interesting picture of what much of consensus was back in the 1930s, and how much of our understanding of cosmology, geology and biology has developed and changed from those early views.One could see the Urantia Book as an attempt to create a response to the scientific and social challenges facing Protestant Christianity in the early 20th century (and with it's strong fideistic bent and arguments against ritual, tradition, mysticism and asceticism it's definitely Protestant).
...or some combination thereof(view spoiler)[Most places I go and the people I talk to don't know anything about the urantia book.
(I don't know the details) but the point is it was more of a curiosity then a devotion to the thing from what I gathered.For me too I just was interested in reading the big crazy book and I started to back when I "borrowed" it from my Dad in 1998.
(so in effect I cheated) but at least I've "heard" it all now.Now that I have "read" it I am somewhat interested in reading some of the other books that are out that give details into the history of how it came about.
I had this book for decades before I learned much about where it came from.
It is an amazing book to read just to wonder about it's validity or origins.
However, to read it from the beginning, can do things to your mind.
But if you learn how they mean to present things, it is a very fascinating book.
There is another book out about where this came from and it is a fascinating story.
Then when I read about where it came from, how, and how it was diluted even under the auspices of it's writers, I found it even more fascinating.
Read this cover to cover about 10 years ago. Hmmmm. Found it very interesting, had some strange dreams while reading it, don't really know how to rate it, or review it. All I can say is I would love to be in a room with the group of people who wrote this book, have a drink, and a long conversation.....
Let me just say that I had to read and re-read these pages because of the content. So intense and prolific. I felt, at times, that this book came from a higher source. I recommend this book to everyone, definitely a must-read.
You want to be enlightened? Read this wonderful yet very difficult to comprehend book. But beware, because all the information that contained in this book will blow your mind into a state that you will never imagined!
5:]June 22Many who are inwardly sure about God fear to assert such feelings of certainty because of the multiplicity and cleverness of those who assemble objections and magnify difficulties about believing in God.
6:]June 24Of God, the most inescapable of all presences, the most real of all facts, the most living of all truths, the most loving of all friends, and the most divine of all values, we have the right to be the most certain of all universe experiences.
6:]June 26In reality, every human being defines religion in the terms of his own experiential interpretation of the divine impulses emanating from the God spirit that indwells him [The Urantia Book, p.
Secondly, let me say this has been well reviewed under a shorter name, and the name above is actually incorrect, it's JUST "The Urantia Book", but I picked this one to write under because this bookcover, is the one I have.
I've got a pretty good ability to read, but reading this book requires long pauses to digest what I've read.
The Urantia Book was written...
If you decide to pick it up, whoever got their hands on the copyright have now divvied it up into more than one book.
"The Urantia Book" is difficult to describe.
I think that the book is a tremendous work of Sadler's imagination and an important philosophical and mythological construct.
I found one of the more intriguing passages of the book to be the LuciferManifesto, which purports to be the document that started the rebellion that got Lucifer andthose planets that followed him (including our planet Earth, called Urantia) ostracized andisolated from the rest of the Universe.
The proof is in the reading.Now that I know about the celestial hierarchy and the evolution of mankind on this planet, the book encourages readers to go out and live the philosophy of Jesus, thus reshaping our world.
Therefor, respectfully, I decline to write too much more about it here and rather encourage others to take a look even as I proceed with my second reading.1:0.6 - "This sublime search for the God of universes is the supreme adventure of the inhabitants of all the worlds of time and space."
A very difficult book to review/summarize.
On one hand, it's a batcrap-crazy collection of pseudoscience, pseudohistory, and pseduoanthropology.
As a religious/spiritual work, it's not any worse than the core works of many religions that boast millions of members today and are generally regarded as "real" religions, and there are some pretty insightful passages and concepts within.At a minimum, it presents an interesting and engaging cosmology, so even those who utterly reject the religious/spiritual side of it(as I clearly do) will find it appealing as a work of "religious fiction/fantasy".
It is rather long, though, so not at all for the faint of heart or casual.
Un libro que carece de realidad; no tiene autor y además habla del universo de super-universos sin tener ninguna base científica. Habra que preguntarse que opinan los cientificos, austronomos, etc. Otra cosas como la formación de la tierra y sus siete razas. Dudoso planteamiento; pero mi mayor decepción es que después de haber leído “La rebelión de lucifer” y “Los caballos de Troya” de Juan José Benítez; me diera cuenta que la mayor parte de estos libros son casi una copia del libro de “Libro de Urantia”.
I've had the distinct pleasure of having one branch of my group of friends, actually believe this and form book study groups around it. So fun. But so reminiscent of Christianity and its Bible studies, it makes one shudder. The third part is where it really gets going, elaborating on the history of the universe and of man, and the fourth part about Jesus is pretty in depth. Just don't drink the Kool-Aid and it's fine. The fact that it IS Kool-Aid for some people is scary though.
Who dictated this Cosmological, Philosophical,Religious.... sort of compendium to W. Sadler is still a mystery.Mind-boggling,yet worth-pondering.Some aspects of science approached are too advanced for the time it was dictated (from mid 1920's till 1950).
Thanks aliens, but if you're going to go out of your way to give us a message, tell us something we don't already know.The Corporate Bureaucracy of the Cosmos"The plans, policies, and administrative acts of the local universe are formed and executed by this Son, who, in conjunction with his Spirit associate, delegates executive power to Gabriel and jurisdictional authority to the Constellation Fathers, System Sovereigns, and Planetary Princes."A large portion of the book is dedicated to describing the bureaucratic hierarchy of the cosmos and all the different job titles.
I will be reading the bible for many years to come.The contents of this book came to be through "channeling." For those of you who don't know what that is, it is when people receive information from a supposed anterior source, like a spirit guide, angel, or guardian of some kind.This book will be a complete waste of time.
However, if you do buy into it, this is probably the most brilliant, in depth piece of writing you'll ever come across unless you read the living word, the Bible Learn to look steadily at Me in all your moments and all your circumstances.
Then I remembered an old friend who had gotten into this new found spiritually which he attributed to the Urantia Book.
For me it all clicked, answered all my questions concerning Personality Survival, Angels, Creation & the hidden years of Jesus that the Bible left out.
Some of it is incredibly deep & scientific (beyond my grasp of comprehension) Great book for anyone searching for answers to why we are here & that God is Real, Approachable, Loving, Merciful & Just.Keeps me on track when I'm dealing with life's set backs & disappointments.
Very strong and knowledgeable book, I believe every Christian, Catholic, Jehovah's Witness, Protestants, Lutherans, and etc...
should possess, doesn't mean everyone should believe everything given in the book but will awaken your conscious and sub-conscious mind to spiritual awareness and growths in certain levels.
The Urantia Book can also be read by other diverse religions, but this is mainly Christian.
Urantia Book is an outstanding philosophic book with dedicated research combined unto one book.
A Must Have by All. Awaken spiritual personality to your conscious!
Urantia Book provides technical knowledge on a diverse range.
I didn't finish this book.
This is the first book that confounded my Goodreads shelf system.
But that doesn't change the fact that I have to have it on my "Read" list - and that it's a bit false to do that, but I'm being forced.My review is useless other than maybe pointing out that the Goodreads shelf system is slightly flawed.As for the reasons I don't want to read it...well, I don't really even want to critique the book here because I didn't give it a chance.
The book made my head hurt.
I loved this book...it really unified my ideas and belief systems. This book purports to be nothing short of the 5th Epochal Revelation...and, after reading it, I believe that it simply must be. Philosophy, Science, Psychology, and Religion are all unified and enhanced...quite a read...I say: Go For It...!!!
