https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/667234.The_Cat_in_the_Hat_Comes_Back
The mischievous cat returns.Along with it comes the alphabetical cats in successive hats. And more of everything.Let me just me put is as this is the way of explaining Inception to 5 year olds.Rhyming, repetitive and recurring lines cast the spell again! PS  : Wait, the goldfish did not return. I KNEW the cat ate it in the first part.
What Seuss has created using such imagination, with a particularly dynamic (both flamboyant but simple) and unique style of illustration, coupled with his verse rhythms and the use of repetitive but building and twisting phrases – all in an extremely and deliberately accessible way, is a series of works which are a fantastic visual and verbal feast, captivating both children and adults alike.For me the most memorable examples of Seuss’s work are: ‘The Cat in the Hat’ (along with its sequel ‘The Cat in the Hat Comes Back’) – For the wonderful creation of mischief that is the ‘Cat in the Hat’ ‘Fox in Socks’ – For the tremendously bizarre tongue-twisters‘Green Eggs and Ham’ – For the ever building and dynamic nature of the verse.
Better even than the original - The Cat in the Hat. This one is about snow: Sally and I are outside shovelling, making paths when the cat turns up.
He helps himself to a bath and eats cake - in the bath, which leaves a pink ring.
The ring is cleaned by the cat with mother's new dress, and then I believe the pink is scrubbed off dad's shoes on to the bed, at which point the Cat calls in little Cats A, B, and C to help.
by Andrea Renee CoxWhat a cute ABC book! I hadn't read this Dr. Seuss book prior to now, surprisingly. I'm adding it to my to-purchase list, because it's very adorable and one I can imagine reading to any kids I may have down the road.I was not compensated for my honest review.
As much as I and my kids adored the original The Cat in the Hat, this followup (and I believe there were actually two or three others as well) paled in comparison to the original. That is not to say that it is not entertaining, but I'd rather go for Green Eggs and Ham or Horton Hears a Who than this one given the choice.
Not as powerful as the original Cat in the Hat, but with all the inexorable poignancy of a repetition compulsion, The Cat in the Hat Comes Back draws the marrow from the bourgeois skeletons broken by his original foray into suburban America. Is this crisis or has it now become commentary?--or, more insidiously, is it both?Subliminally compelling. The reason we lost China and Southeast Asia.
The cat in the hat is back with twenty-six other cats in hats and a voom, to wreak more havoc around the house before cleaning up after themselves. A nice sequel to the original.
March 2, 2015 ... re-read in honor of Dr. Seuss's birthday.
I was confused at first because I thought the Cat in the Hat was a standalone and when I read that this was a sequel, my whole world exploded and I immediately ran to the front desk to check it out because I wasn't going to let anyone touch that book except me.After checking out the book I waited until I had free time to devour it and I absolutely loved it.
The book explains the journey Sally and her brother go through to remove the trace of the cat in the hat from their house before their mother returns.
Can Sally and her brother get the house clean and shovel the snow or will the cat in the hat continue to make more mess?Dr Seuss is a brilliant author and this book is ideal for children in Key Stage 1 who are just beginning to read on their own.
Throughout the book, Dr Seuss uses a variety of language techniques such as rhyme, rhythm and repetition to help the child to read and build their confidence.
The narrator, an unnamed boy, and his sister Sally are working hard when the Cat In The Hat pops round for a friendly visit.
For this reason it is well suited to reception and year 1 children.Possible uses: - Works well for independent reading and teacher reading.
- Can be used to introduce poetry, or at least the concept of rhyme, to young children.
- The second half of the book, featuring little cats A-Z, can be used to consolidate knowledge of the alphabet for early reception children in particular.
This book is way more fun than the Cat in the Hat. I want more of The Cat in The Hat with different seasons and different problems!!
I want Sally and her brother's Mom to go out more so they can have Cat in the Hat more with them.
P.S. Archit, we are not so having the cat in the hat in our home!Whenever we are out, we'll make sure that THIS cat doesn't come to our house, no matter what problems our children will be in!
Because The cat in the hat is a problem himself!!!I can't wait to read it to you.
Well this is the last of my collection of Dr Seuss books :(I enjoyed this one, the return of the cat in the hat.
The real villain in the book is mum, she leaves her two small children to clear all the snow whilst she saunters off into to town.
So he gets the cat in his hat, cat A to help who then gets cat B to help and so on up to cat Z.The book is fun and also finds time to teach the alphabet.
Only issue I have was with the illustrations, not up to usual vividness.Gonna have to go hunting for more of his books now.
Inevitably, this book will be compared to its predecessor. Yet I am pleased to say that I have always liked this sequel better. The idea of the story being centered around removing a pink ring in the bathtub is quite fun. Of course Dr. Seuss finds ways to educate the reader about household items in the alphabet in the process.
Yes, one should definitely shoot the spots. Get the cats to do it!
Loved it!!!
This Seuss sequel features the Cat returning to the same house on a snowy day, annoying the children once again with his fun and playful attitude.
The cat has to rely on his other cat friends, who have different names on each letter of the alphabet, to get rid of the ring for good before the mother comes back.
What I liked the most about this sequel is that it's a good tool to teach young children the letters of the alphabet.
But along with said ABC book, this one is more fun for those who want an entertaining story while learning the alphabet as well.
Every child needs to read the Cat in the Hat books. We've read this one many times. As the kids get older and are learning how to read, I have them tackle this book, among many others. The words are easy to sound out and are some of the most common words in the English language. And since they've heard the book so many times already, it's easier for them to read.Besides, it's fun.
This is a really odd book, not in a good way either.
The same storyline as the other Dr.Seuss books except this one is more exciting and fun!
I believe it's another good book to teach ABCs to children.. It's also very funny & full of surprises.. :)
I dislike this enough that I never read it to my kids. I like my kids.
I liked it because he always does something bad, but it always turns out good in the end.
but here he is again!And he comes back to snowy times with Sally and her brother attempting to clear the snow away.
Sally and her brother are annoyed and let the water out but when it has gone down the plug hole, there is a nasty pink ring around the bath.Sally's brother wonders if it will ever come off but the Cat soon solves that problem by using the children's mother's white dress to remove the pink ring.
Fortunately under that huge hat he has a whole host of smaller cats, all lettered A to Z.All these cats pitch in with the Cat to remove the pink but it is not easy and they end up with the snow completely pink.
I always get the impression that no one likes The Cat in the Hat Comes Back as much as they like The Cat in the Hat. But as a kid I always liked the second book much better than the first one.
But in the second book, tmost of the book takes place outside their home.
Thing One and Thing Two are demons; all of those Little Cats, while not exactly angels, look like they'd be fun to play with - who didn't like the play in the snow when they were seven years old, and with a bunch of little cats that have all sorts of snow related toys.
I didn't know The Cat in the Hat had a sequel! What a marvelous discovery.I went to my aunt's house in search of How the Grinch Stole Christmas (My library is out of copies! Apparently Christmas time is not the best time for me to decide that I must read it.) Anyway, I spent the evening reading her entire collection of Dr. Seuss books. I really have the most awesome relatives!
The thrilling return of a true hero of our modern era. Dr. Seuss has truly exceeded the expectations of mankind.
My daughter received this for Christmas so I just read it aloud to her. A nice continuation on the Cat in The Hat story. She enjoys the rhymes.
I enjoyed this book because I like snow. I also enjoyed this book because this book had a lot of snow in it.
Riveting sequel to the first one, I was on the edge of my seat.
