https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16735.The_Prince_of_Tides
It is also my anchorage, my port of call.So begins the story of the Wingo family of Melrose Island in Colleton County, South Carolina.
Tom has a twin sister Savannah and as the story opens Savannah, a successful poet, who lives in New York City has just attempted to end her life by slashing her wrists with a razor blade.
The moon then rose quickly, rose like a bird from the water, from the trees, from the islands, and climbed straight up - gold, then yellow, then pale yellow, pale silver, silver - bright, then something miraculous, immaculate, and beyond silver, a color native only to southern nights.These days Tom Wingo is a family man himself with a beautiful wife and three beautiful daughters but he can feel it all slipping away.
However, I was fully expecting to love and revel in this big, romantic, Southern family epic.
The funeral parlour smelled like dead flowers and unanswered prayers.And another:I tasted the wine and it was so robust and appealing that I could feel my mouth singing with pleasure when I brought the glass from my lips.
I felt like I was watching a terrible 1980's movie most of the time, with a showy, cinematic predictability.
A very poor shrimping boat family has a Bengal tiger in their barn?Finally, the love story between Tom and Lowenstein did nothing for me.
This is the book that is the reason I read anything at all for pleasure. I decided I was going to read it before the movie came out and COMPLETELY fell in love with Conroy's style, renewed my love-affair with the low country of South Carolina, and discovered the joy of diving into a book wholeheartedly. Mr. Conroy is the reason I read today. The stories of what this family went through are heartbreaking at one (or more) moment(s) and hysterical at others. I didn't think the movie was half-bad, but the book is phenomenal.
A Riptide In Southern English, "naked" means you ain't got no clothes on, while "nekkid" means you ain't got no clothes on and you're up to something. Lewis GrizzardClip of the 3 kids in film version of novel  "Man wonders but God decidesWhen to kill the Prince of Tides."   A verse from the eponymous poem by Savannah Wingo, the suicidal sister and renowned poet in Pat Conroy's The Prince of Tides, a novel dealing on its surface with the general mentality of the Southern United States, particula
A verse from the eponymous poem by Savannah Wingo, the suicidal sister and renowned poet in Pat Conroy's The Prince of Tides, a novel dealing on its surface with the general mentality of the Southern United States, particularly of the region's male gender.Conroy's protagonist Tom Wingo gives a first person account of the heart-stinging story of the Wingo family of the South Carolina coast, primarily to his sister's NYC therapist in an attempt to save sis's life after a second suicide attempt.
I'm not sure about the source of the appeal, but he looks like a jolly gnome in the pictures I've seen of him, and I take him for a man who shook hands vigorously at book signings.Okay, so he was affable (I'm not entirely sure; you'd need to ask Wife #1, Wife #2 or Wife #3 how she felt about him), and I enjoy affable types, but I'm not sure why more attention hasn't been placed on some of the damnable mistakes in his writing.First off, Mr. Conroy is incredibly inconsistent.
It is also deeply entrenched in the American south.
The plain good virtue and astonishing cruelty of small-town South Carolina take shape in an uneasy and inevitable connection, vying ferociously with the complicated sadness of modernity.
This book is treacherous and difficult, wounding at the very threshold of a happy or cathartic moment, and while it is not always pleasant to read, it is provocative and cathartic.
It is an angry and sensitive book, dedicated to an ideal of America and made up of terrific stories.
It is all tied together in the structure of a novel, and ends up being well worth the read.
I can't remember the last time I felt this torn; I hated the characters for being so selfish with their affections, so cowardly in their confrontations, the cruelty shown when the moment was theirs for the taking.
What I hated more was when the victim on the receiving end - and, to be fair, it always rotates - would rise up in anger, but then crumble to their knees in love and forgiveness.
In one moment they felt so betrayed, so dishonored by blood and by love.
Then would wait five minutes, and forgive them because of who they were..family.
There's also some mystery about his brother's fate but I won't spoiler it for you (hint: it's nonsensical too.) The aforementioned sister has suffered a breakdown which takes him from South Carolina to NYC where he meets her therapist.
There, he tells the story of their life to nice therapist lady with lines like, "I haven't gotten to the worst part yet.
By the way, I read this around the same time the movie came out and told a friend who had seen it I hated the book but the part with the tiger was sad.
While the book is centered around Savannah's insanity and treatment by Dr. Susan Lowenstein, their very disturbing childhoods are narrated by Tom who hopes to bring his sister back from her world of demons and silence.Except for bits of animal cruelty here and there (that I abhor) this is an incredible story and extraordinary novel.
This book was, like all of Conroy's titles, intensely gripping, humorous at times, coarse and gruesome at others, with more than a few touches of sheer poetry scattered everywhere.Conroy excels at describing tortured family life; in this case the Wingos of South Carolina.
Through narrator Tom's eyes, we learn about his parents, his older brother Luke, and his twin sister Savannah.
I've read enough Conroy to know that his childhood was nearly as tortured as Tom Wingo's.
That is the way things turned out for Tom Wingo, so why not for Pat Conroy also?
I'm waiting for the day that Pat Conroy will disappoint me. I'm waiting for the day that he fails to astound me, to take my breath away with each poetically seductive word that he has chosen, to stir emotions deep within me that I only feel and understand when I am reading his literature.I am pertinaciously confident that that day will never come.
I'm giving the book 2 stars because I think the story, buried under way too many words, is an interesting one - it's just too hard to find most of the time.- AnnaLovesBooks
I think this is a case of a book not aging well.
But holy sun, stars and moon...
(Don't get me started on Lowenstein's concert violinist husband.)Even after the big emotional climax, which (let's be honest, here) we've seen coming for at least 250 pages, there's lots to go.
And despite the length of the thing, there are many, many unanswered questions.I interviewed Conroy once, and he was the nicest, sweetest, most charming guy imaginable.
You entertained a lot of people with your stories.
I hope your other books are a little bit subtler in their effects.
This central theme is expanded to touch upon patriotism, the Vietnam War, nuclear weapons, environmentalism, rape, sexism, feminism, psychiatry, religion, drugs, finally ending with the strength of family ties and love of home, that is to say where you grow up.
I do understand that Pat Conroy, the author, felt a deep love and tie to the South Carolinian lowlands.
(hide spoiler)] Don't all patients (view spoiler)[fall in love with their psychiatrists?
(hide spoiler)] A book of this length has to have a love affair.
So sentimental that Luke agrees (view spoiler)[to surrender but then is shot while looking one more time at their old home (hide spoiler)].I said the writing was overblown.
This novel, however, is the most absurdly sentimental and overwrought book I have picked up in many moons.
It's hard to describe the feeling of rolling one's eyes for 567 pages.
Here's an example of an undertaker who is in the story for all of 15 pages (at most): "Winthrop Ogletree...was tall and thin and had a complexion like goat cheese left on the table too long.
The funeral parlor smelled like dead flowers and unanswered prayers [???].
Did I hate every page?
I just felt like I was running through molasses to get anywhere.
I almost didn't read this one because I have seen the movie numerous times and really didn't care to read about the romance of a small town coach and a big city psychiatrist. This book is SO MUCH BETTER THAN THE MOVIE!!!! Tragic and humorous. Shocking and touching. Brutal and tender. Honest and delusional. Love, fear, unadulterated hatred and inconceivable forgiveness are all combined in an eloquently written novel.
I'll read suspense thrillers in the hope that there is still an author that will break the mould and twist a plot line so unexpectedly that it will keep me awake at night.Those are the things I look for, and the things that will make me rate a book five stars.But underlining all of this, is the most important thing of all.
Keep me engaged with a great story with great characters.Well, obviously you can see the five star rating here, so you know what the deal is.The Prince of Tides is one of the best novels I've read in a long time.
I don't understand why this book gets rave reviews.
I made it through the nearly 600 pages, but I can't say that I enjoyed most of it.
Here is a random excerpt: "I tasted the wine and it was so robust and appealing that I could feel my mouth singing with pleasure when I brought the glass from my lips.
The aftertaste held like a chord on my tongue; my mouth felt like a field of flowers.
The mousse made me happy to be alive." Give me a break.
I felt like the novel was really over the top and long.
Even though I have read this book twice I just purchased it on Amazon Kindle so I can read it again
My husband and I listened to THE PRINCE OF TIDES on Sirius radio while driving across Eastern Canada.
This was was our introduction to the well known and loved author, Pat Conroy.
The beginning of my love affair with the work of Pat Conroy was this intense, dramatic, passionate, sad and humorous story.
Pat Conroy introduced the audiobook THE PRINCE OF TIDES and praised Frank Muller for fantastic job he did reading this story.
Mr. Muller changed his voice for the narrator and different characters and used lots of expression bringing the story alive.
This has got to be one of the most f*cked up family stories I've ever read/listened to.
Not to mention the huge list of vocabulary words I was constantly cross-referencing with Websters!
But I found it a pleasure rather than a hindrance.The story itself, admittedly for me, started it out slow.
When I was tuned into  The Prince of Tides  I was under a spell.
it's all there if you're willing to take a ride on the tides with the Wingos.
And I highly recommend you do, with Frank Muller manning the boat.
Check that off the bucket list!
The first time I listened to it was several years ago when I was commuting to work, and there is one scene that had me bawling my guts out, which is super embarrassing when you’re in heavy traffic on the highway.In the story, poet Savanah has attempted suicide again.
Plus, there is humor, and the siblings (there is also another brother, who is dead by the time we start the novel, but we learn about him as Tom recounts their upbringing) are likeable, complex characters.
The South and history are also characters in the book.
I recently re-read this after many years. First, Pat Conroy is one hell of a writer. His prose is lyrical. I always say if Jimmy Buffet can set your words to music (The white porpoise comes to me at night, singing in the river of time . . .) then you are a heck of a writer.His books have so many plots it's always interesting to see the film adaptation.Te only thing that strikes me is how over the top every plot line is. Nothing ordinary ever happened to a Wingo. Or to any of Conroy's characters.
I recently re-read this after many years.
First, Pat Conroy is one hell of a writer.
I always say if Jimmy Buffet can set your words to music (﻿﻿﻿The white porpoise comes to me at night, singing in the river of time .
They save the white porpoise; they're born in the storm of the century with the black midwife dying holding on to them; their grandmother travels the world; their grandfather carries a cross through town; the narrator immediately accepts the only black player on the team and runs for a touchdown, etc etc.
In fact, my wife and I had a conversation recently about how thrilled I was to receive multiple comments before I’d even read this book and written the review, and then I go and accidentally delete said comments.
This novel covers the taboo subjects of rape, child abuse, and suicide attempts, and it does so unabashedly and with language and pitch-perfect storytelling ability that will literally tip over your emotional applecart.THE PRINCE OF TIDES peels back the curtains of the small-town, southern life, and it gives the reader a front row seat on shrimping and family loyalty, often taken to absurdist extremes.
Although the protagonist Tom represented a complex and thoughtful narrator in the beginning of his tale, I was unhappy with his adult self, the decisions he made, his attitude towards life, and the consequences of his decisions.
Tom's becomes involved in Susan’s marriage and the “taming” of her son and eventually is faced with a life altering decision that has nothing to do with the original plot and epic story.
At the resolution, I was left depressed and uninspired.I think the most interesting character was Tom's mother.
The theme of Prince of Tides is indeed dark...but oh, the beauty of the words that Pat Conroy weaves together.
Pat Conroy begins, "My wound is my geography.
Tom's wound is his anchor, his life.
I have read many Pat Conroy interviews.
In an interview on The Book Report on America Online, Pat Conroy was asked the following question: "Pat, who was your biggest influence as a beginning author?" He responded, "No question.
Pat Conroy's novels show us that even in the depths of unimaginable horror, there is hope, beauty and family...however dysfunctional that family might be!!!
This book. Is stunning. Pat Conroy is a genius. One of the main characters is a poet, and excerpts from her work are brilliant. How many time have you cringed when otherwise talented writers of fiction attempted to include the "poetry" of their characters? No cringing here. if you can, listen to this book on audio, narrated by Frank Muller. Holy crap. He turns a near perfect novel into a masterpiece. I am not exaggerating.
Full review later.
It really took me by surprise how much I got into the story and enjoyed reading the tumultuous, horrible, quirky and loving lives of the Wingo family.Much of the credit goes to Conroy’s wonderful writing and narration.
Conroy managed to eloquently convey the complicated relationships and feelings of the family at the heart of this story without having to make you work for it.It also helps that the narration was full of self-deprecating and sarcastic humor from the book’s narrator, Tom Wingo.
Thanks to Pat Conroy and his novel The Prince of TidesI've spent the past seven days in Colleton, South Carolina living the lives of the Wingo family members.
I wanted to remain in this book and with these characters for longer.
I was putty in Pat Conroy's hands.
It was natural for me to despise the father for his acts of violence against his family and yet when Conroy decided it was time for forgiveness and understanding he exracted it from me with ease.
Nothing I write will do justice to this book.
A memorable book and one I will not soon forget I'm sure.
