https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/254031.The_Destructors
A short story by Graham Greene that carries with it a weightful message, it's critical and darkly humorous in which a group of anarchist young teenagers that are part of a gang in London decide to tear down the only symbolic house left standing after a bombing raid leveled an area, where It would be wise to look at the characters and their influence in proceedings and the results they have on various subsequent view-points that the reader will see.
A lesser known work for Green, that I only came across after it featured in the film 'Donnie Darko' of all things.
Although the film's teacher says that it is meant to be "ironic", it is meant to be a parallel to Sri Lankan politics.
I think the historical parallel would be a great short story to prelude to Animal Farm, a book I read in grade 10.
1. Leader Blackie = UNP of Senanayakes, Jayewardene and Wickremasinghe (all belonging to the same extended family) 2.
T (Trevor) = SLFP of Bandaranaikes (Father, Mother, Daughter and Son – a nuclear family) 3.
Summers = greedy business moguls linked with UNP or SLFP 5.
Old Misery’s House = Sri Lankan state

شورش نسل نابود شده توسط جنگ، عليه هر چيز زيبا كه از نسل هاى قديمى باقى مونده.و شيوه ى نابود كردن هم جالبه: از درون همه چيز رو خراب مى كنن، بدون اينكه در بيرون چيزى معلوم باشه.
بعد كه خونه از درون متزلزل شد، راحت با يه طناب همه ش رو فرو مى ريزن: فساد و پوچى اين بناى سنت از درون، در حالى كه در ظاهر با ابهت و اقتدار ايستاده.نمونه ى خوبى از اينكه ميشه يه پيام رو در قالبى سرگرم كننده انتقال داد.
T. was giving his orders with decision: It was as though this plan had been with him all his life, pondered through the seasons, now in his fifteenth year crystallized with the pain of puberty."Crystallized with the pain of puberty"That has got to be the best coming-of-age phrase I've ever seen!
تخریب ، نوعی خلاقیت است...
We all have very little, if any, control over the fates that we must suffer at the hands of society.
It's all part of the 'deal'.
We gain communal security, but we give up our ability to sustain our lives in a manner that's in complete agreement with our human spirit.
What recourse do we have for the angst that this 'deal' requires us to suffer?
"The Destructors" provides a quick look at one boy's act of revenge against society.
And as usual, society is not the one that suffers the consequences.Or alternatively...Idle hands are the devil's tools (but, this is Graham Greene).
نبوغ در دنیای ادبیات غرب بیداد می کنه. درست بعد از جنگ جهانی دوم،بعد از اون همه کشته و خرابی ، کی می تونست اینطوری آینده بشر رو به تصویر بکشه؟ میگه باید خراب کنیم و همه چیز رو از بین ببریم اما لازم نیست این خرابی از بیرون باشه ، دیگه لازم نیست جنگی در کار باشه ، از درون خرابش می کنیم . بعد دیگه با یه تلنگر بیرونش هم فرو میریزه. و از اون به بعد سیاست غرب همین شد... شاهکاری است این اثر...
"Destruction is a form of creation"..Picked this one up because it was talked about in Donnie Darko and I had no idea it is really a parallel to Sri Lankan politics. Power struggles, destruction from the inside out, and a sense of black comedy make this one a good, quick read.
Much copied story (Porky's, Donny Darko, etc.) Dark stuff, but you gotta admit, it is pretty funny! Appeals to the dark side of most of us.
Like much of the readership, I heard this referenced in Donnie Darko.
That movie was open to myriad interpretations and meanings.
This story, however, does not afford the same opportunity.
I'm the kind of person who gives allowances to books and the symbolism they hold.
With that said, this story was bullshit.
The only time destruction can be mistaken as a form of creation is if you don't know the actual definition of either word.
In a way, it's almost like the author is symbolizing their own story.
I actually prefer this interpretation better.
yek dastane kheili kootah ,kheili ziba va kheili ma'roof
i love the story for what it is and everything it conveys but most of all i appreciate greens writing style. if the short story wasn't told in the way that it was, none of the messages and symbols would make the impact they do. "the grey ash floated above them and fell on their heads like age"
Entertaining. Yet uncomfortable.. A short story mentioned in the film Donnie Darko known for the simple yet complex concept being; "destruction is a form of creation." And that is the best synopsis you can find.
This is a short story set in the post war London. The story is dark and many find it funny. While I did not find it the least bit funny, it was certainly interesting to realize that it is based on Sri Lankan Politics. Now I need to dig into Sri Lankan history to appreciate the parallels.
Nope. Didn't get me that much.
Donnie Darko made me do it... or should I say Richard Kelly?
A short and witty modernist tale of youth anxiety and growing up in a gang full of sardonic undertones and dry honour as destruction is a form of creation but not a justification to destroy an old mans house.
I had to read this for an English class. I was deeply unimpressed. What were those kids thinking?
Read for English Class.
Unpopular opinion alert, but this just breaks my heart every time.
I first heard about this story in Donnie Darko and it has always piqued my curiosity. I finally got off my butt and found a copy and read in one sitting. It's a short story but one that left me just saying "Wow". So much chaos for so little a purpose. Reminds me of the line: Some men just want to watch the world burn.That's all I'll say: No spoilers. Worth the time to read.
Para crear cosas nuevas hay que tirar abajo todos los modelos viejos desde adentro como gusanos en una manzana. Hay belleza en la destrucción. Rompamos cosas.
The Destructors is a short story by Graham Greene about a gang of youths who destroy an old man (aka Old Misery)'s old house inside out (destroy everything inside first) and the difficulties they had (when the old man came back but they lock him) ...I read this basically because of the allusion in Donnie Darko (one of the best movies ever made) and the best/eccentric part is burning the money instead of taking it (which is ironic) and the best explanation for it as said by Donnie "...
An interesting short story about teenagers in post-war Britain.
In a lot of ways it reminded me of A Clockwork Orange and that interests me because I've heard people compare Graham Greene's Brighton Rock to A Clockwork Orange in the past.
Based on the strength of this story and also those comparisons, I think I might try reading Brighton Rock sometime soon.
There is a lot to discuss in this story and, even though this isn't a time period or subject matter that I usually reach for, it has really encouraged me to try more Greene.
Now I understand why people need resolution.See, I wrote a short story recently which kind of ended without a lot of resolution.
When someone proofread it, he said I should change the ending to provide a bit of, if not plot, philosophical resolution.
I felt that was a bit too on the nose, but I went with it.This book doesn't go with it.
I don't need a diatribe about the backstory of what happened and why the characters act like this, but I'd like an inkling of what I'm supposed to be thinking about.
3/5starsWe read this for my postmodernism class, alongside watching the film "Donnie Darko." I'm still not totally sure how the two are connected, except for the elements of postmodernism that both have.I enjoyed this writing, Graham Greene had a very interesting way of writing this short story.
But I really didn't like the actual story line.
I hated those little boys, and really didn't understand their motivation for destroying a little old man's house - a little old man who tried to be kind to them, and a house that had stood tall and survived through several bombings during WWII, only to be destroyed by a bunch of rotten little boys.Hopefully after discussing it with my class I'll understand it a bit more.
We had to read this book for my English class a few days ago and truly enjoyed reading it and analyzing it (what I have gotten into a habit of doing with any piece of literature, movie, play, etc.) But the short story was interesting, just a group of boys ranging from the ages of 9 - 15 going about to destroy this person's house which, ironically, was not bombed although it is at a bomb site, coincidence?
Did he just "want to see the world burn" as Joker would say, what is his psychological back story?

