https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6321327-the-gun
This early Dick effort first published in Planet Stories (1952) is remarkable both for its sobering theme of the dangers of automation--a theme Dick would return to again--and the playful way in which it develops its narrative.A spaceship is dispatched to a distant planet because of a powerful fission explosion.
All this serves to lighten the narrative, and disarm the reader so he may be surprised when the tale returns to its grim central theme.This sort of narrative trick is one of the things Dick did best: keeping the reader unbalanced, unsure of his relationship to the story itself and the unsettling world it creates.
Dick had published in 1952, is a clever comment on the dangers of armament and military innovation, written probably under the influence of the first stages of the Cold War, but it also has a double-barrelled twist in its tail.A group of space explorers has been attracted to a hitherto unexplored planet by the light of nuclear fission, and a scan of the planet’s surface tells them that a nuclear maelstrom has made it uninhabitable.
They decide to salvage this treasure and soon also find a way of destroying the gun – simply because it is not able to defend itself from an attack led from the ground.
When it was first published, in 1952, this must be an interesting story about a weapon that outlived its creators, today, when wars started to be fought with semi-autonomous drones, and military are on the brink of making "The Gun" real, it is eerily close to the real life.
I've recently read a bunch of Philip K. Dick's short stories and love how, although they are all dealing with similar situations (cold war turned into hot war, terra uninhabitable due to radiation, underground factories, robot wars, humans forced to live underground; OR interstellar wars (Terra-Centauri)/other interstellar situations), they still can't be compared to each other, they still differ enough to be enjoyed one after another (without getting bored by repetition).This one I didn't quite like, though, a tad boring.Sparks ideas about war, modern warfare, is war an innate reaction in man or is it learned behaviour?
As much as I like PKD, there's not a whole lot to this short story. The story is based on an interesting idea, but everything leading up to the idea is lackluster.
A Great Science Fiction Short Story!!!Philip K Dick scores with yet another excellent science fiction short story. While visiting a world ruined in the past by a nuclear war, the investigation team's space craft is damaged by a remotely fired gun located on the planet's surface. Will the visitors be able to repair their ship? Will they be able to avoid the fire of the remotely actuated gun, or are they doomed to stay forever on this ruined world? I encourage everyone to read this excellent story!!!
3.5
I'm new to science fiction. Maybe a short story isn't enough to pull me in.
A bit simple, not real PKD.
Interesting, and self-ware, retelling of an archetypal story, including the part where you can never permanently vanquish the enemy.
A scintillating short story about a star-ship that crash lands on a destroyed planet when an atomic missile strikes it. They find a gun installed on the forsaken planet. What will the voyagers do next? I was wondering about the lack of enthusiasm in the story line when the end brought a smile to my face!
This story was about a spaceship crew come to investigate a planet for intelligent life.
The captain spots ruins and the ship is quickly attacked by a large, ominous gun.
The rest of the plot deals with the crew investigating the gun and what it is protecting since the ruins seem to suggest no remaining civilization.
While I won't give any more of the story away, I think the author was ahead of his time, seemingly calling to mind artificial intelligence (in service of defense), as well as other non-militaristic ideas such as what things are worth saving, and the story might even be an allegory about how we as individuals deal with the past.
This was one of his free short stories on Amazon I think which is why I got it.
It's like watching the smartest neanderthal try to write about how cool equality would be, but still so deep in the inequality pit that he can't quite get it right.Also, this is cold war lit like much of PKD's writing was.
The Gun is very good commentary on how stupid nuclear war is albeit very dated and like I said simplistic.
Still, short enough that it's a good read.
This was definitely a quick and entertaining short story by Philip K.
Dick.A ship is sent to explore a huge blast that was visible all the way from their home planet.
When they arrive at the source, they find a world that has been destroyed by nuclear war.
At least, they thought it was completely destroyed until they start taking fire.When the story begins, you assume that the explorers represent our race and their investigating an alien culture.
The story turns into a treatise on nuclear war and the inevitable distruction that would arise from it.
The story is quick, well-written, and a little haunting.
Quick lil' story featuring PKD's standard 1950s ouvre: criticism of the Cold War mentality and war in general. Alas, it didn't really grab me like some of his other pieces from this time and theme (e.g. Mr. Spaceship, The Skull, et al.). Worth a read, but probably not a re-read.
This short story was a very quick read and was not complex in terms of language or comprehension. Before reading it, it is important to note that it was published in 1952, which would explain some of the themes the author is discussing. I found it interesting in the sense that its portrayal of humanity is different from what I've seen in other sci-fi stories (though part of that may also be because my knowledge of the sci-fi genre is very limited). However, I still feel pretty neutral about it overall.
A group of space explorers are observing the ruins of an unexplored planet when their ship is attacked by an unknown enemy. Though short, Dick contemplates on the use of artificial intelligence and the destructive nature it grants to the beholder. Though short, it is a representative example of Dick's fears of technology. A good read.
Ultimate in planet protectionAudio Book MP3 downloaded fromhttp://librivox.org/short-science-fic...Public Domain stories from Project Gutenberg, that are read by volunteers. I listen to these short stories while walking to and from work.Play Duration: 00:27:55Read By: Gregg Margarite
This PKD short story is about space crew that finds a planet destroyed by a nuclear holocaust that is still protected by an automated anti-aircraft gun. It is a timeless tale about the dangers of relying too much on technology, and creating things that can destroy us. Short and entertaining, and enjoyable for anyone who is a fan of this author.
Like many of PKD's stories, this one would make a good movie. Or perhaps, an episode of a TV show. I wonder if it has. There's a very Star Trek-like vibe to it, smart social commentary through the sci-fi prism. Well done.
This short story is a perfect little futuristic tale. While short, the piece is just long enough to explore themes of technological immortality and human apocalypse and to paint an incredibly detailed alien world while doing so.
Intelligent life on a far away planet: unknown of until nuclear destruction announces its forfeited existence. Self-aware machinery protecting humanities treasures. Safe for whom? To what end? Not the strongest of P.K. Dick's short stories, but it does voice a valid science fiction concern.
Short early Dick (which sounds a bit Yewtree), lacking his normal headfuck quality and hamstrung by two of its twists having become cliches in the intervening decades. But there's still a power to its bleak assessment of humanity and it's idea of our legacy.
The story itself was just OK. I can't say how it was at the time it was written, but these days the twists are nothing new and very expected. But I like that it seems it's not people exploring the planet, but something else exploring us.
The Gun is another great short story from PKD. I downloaded a lot of them for my Kindle one day and occasionally read one I have not been disappointed yet. Read the description and give it a try. Can't go wrong with PKD!
An interesting short story about a WMD that won't die.
An interesting story that unfortunately doesn't have as strong an ending as it should.
A fun and quick read that makes you think.I enjoyed it! I read it in less than twenty minutes but it was fun and interesting. I would give it a look if you enjoy sci fi
Not my favorite PKD: too obvious, too preachy, too serious. Can't win 'em all, I suppose.
I felt this one was a bit too predictable, but enjoyable.
