https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18835.Virginia_Woolf
Her dress shimmered like an aura of sheer organdie, and just as she was about to tuck into some doves' brains on parsley, I turned to her and said "'Ere, Virginia, do you know this one?"A mother was washing her baby one night The youngest of ten and a delicate mite The mother turned round for the soap off the rack She was only a moment - but when she turned back Her baby had gone and in anguish she cried "Oh where has my baby gone?" And the angels replied Oh your baby has gone down the plug-hole Your baby has gone down the plug The poor little thing was so skinny and thin He should have been washed in a jug Your baby is perfectly happy He won't need a bath anymore He's a-mucking about with the angels above Not lost but gone before And when I opened my eyes (the last note having been projected forth with brio, you see) alas she was no longer there, and the doves brains lay congealing untouched on the now cold toast.
It's quite amazing. Seriously, it's even better than I thought it was gonna be. I am really grateful that he was the one who wrote her biography, cause he is a skilled writer and a family member who could not be accused of engorging or minimizing her flaws and virtues.
السيرة الذاتية للكاتبة فيرجينيا بقلم ابن اختها بيل كونتين ...
الكتاب طويل يقع في اكثر من سبعمائة صفحه لكنه ممتع حتى تنسى معه عدد الصفحات ومقدار الوقت المتبقى ..وايضا فيه تأريخ لحيات الكاتبة بعد انتهاء الكتاب وصور شخصيات المهمة في الكتاب والتي أثرت في حياة الكاتبة بشكل من الاشكال..وهذا اكثر ماحببت في الكتاب ..خاتمة السيرة فيها الكثير مما يؤلم حين قررت الكاتبة انهاء حياتها لتتخلص من حياة اتعبها فيه مرضها العقلي ولشعورها بالذنب بسبب احساسها بانها عالة على الاشخاص التي تحبهم زوجها ليناردواختها فانيسا ..
والطريقة التي ماتت بهااا !
Outdated. If you want the most up to date Biography of Virginia Woolf, check out the one by Hermione Lee. There are certain sections of this biography that really angered me. At one point Bell states that Woolf's claim that she was sexually abused as a child is either false or exaggerated. There really is no reason I can think of to believe that, especially when she has described the encounters herself in her own autobiographical writing.
Probably the most surprising (and also the funniest) thing I found out in this book was that, as a young woman, Virginia participated in something called the "Dreadnought hoax," which involved a group of people (her, her brother and a couple of friends) dressing up in robes and fake beards pretending to be delegates from Abyssinia (Ethiopia) and asking for a tour of the warship 
There were a lot of other interesting tidbits scattered throughout the book; most of the ones I thought were the most interesting also underscored ways in which the period in which Virginia lived was very, very different from our own time.
4.75This was a fabulous and intimate look into Virginia Woolf's life. She is the first author I've been so interested in, that I've wanted to know as much as I can find out about her life. There wasn't a boring bone in her body. I continue to yearn for more, and have Vol II waiting on my shelf. I found Bell's writing to be quite easy, it feels effortless, and yet thoroughly engaging.
Appreciated this book so much that I took my two very young children to Rodmell for the summer. We walked her walks, spent time in her garden and toured the now historic house. With a life-long friend, Sylvia, wandered down the lane to river, sad yet understanding her decision. Seminal biography. I'm willing to consider re-reading it.
I could not finish this book. Quentin Bell is the mumbling, english uncle I never wanted or could understand. He goes on and on and I know he is saying something important but he has that damn accent and I am pissed he is taking so long to just tell me the story.
Infatti, laddove Bell privilegia gli aspetti intimi e personali della donna Virginia proponendo con chiarezza e ricchezza di fonti una serie importante di vicissitudini esistenziali legate soprattutto alla complessità delle relazioni familiari e ad eventi dolorosi come la morti del fratello Toby, del padre Leslie e del suo migliore amico Lytton Strachey, i Diari si concentrano maggiormente su tutto ciò che riguarda lo scrivere e sulla meticolosa e ansiosa attività di romanziera e critica letteraria della scrittrice londinese.
The biography used a metallic mirror to the subject which, not unlike photography, is vaguely telling but can do little without real motion or floridity.
If you have read a Woolf you needn’t consume a facilitative word-mass about said individual; little will be added to any pre-existing thoughts or knowledge obtained from raw sources.
A projection could well be posited and it would more than necessary be not dissimilar to that which is apparently present; you will be in possession already of ‘facts’ though ultimately it is the artists’ predilection for craft that blankets any later analyses.
Despite being a faithful accounting of Woolf’s life with much useful information for Virginia Woolf fans, I did not get what I wanted most from Quentin Bell’s book.
The person I found in this biography was a self-centered, difficult and periodically psychotic woman whose friends all recognized her brilliance, but unfortunately that brilliance didn’t come through to me except for Bell to tell me so.
In other words Bell failed to do what Woolf does, create an image of a person that reveals her nature without the author having to spell it out for me.Probably I expect too much.
It is unfair to compare Quentin Bell to Virginia Woolf.
He has great insight into his aunt's life, which helps make this an interesting biography, but sometimes I felt he was being a bit circumspect (for instance concerning her relationship with Vita Sackville-West), and indeed points to things that 'still cannot be said'.The beginning of the book, filling in the family background, I found quite a chore, but things began to improve once he got into his subject.
No wonder Virginia Woolf had mental health issues after all the tragedy she experienced from a young age.
This is definitely an essential read for Woolf/Bloomsbury people, even if there are some areas that could have done with more explanation.
As a result there is a veracity to this book, something of a counterweight to balance Virginia Woolf's own biographical writings.
Virginia Woolf's attitudes to love and sex are lightly touched on, and one senses that if this book were written for modern audiences, it would be expected to reveal more.
That said this book gives a good sense of the sincerity of Virginia Woolf, which is such a feature of her writing, and I feel emboldened to to tackle more of her works as a result.
A must read for those interested in Virginia Woolf. Very detailed and well written. The book is a history of Virginia Woolf. A lot has been written about Virginia Woolf's life and her works; there is no need to add anything here. The most interesting thing about this biography was the voice of the writer: Quentin Bell who was Virginia's nephew. The assumptions he makes, and the way he judges things are foreign to me, and I think it gives an idea of how things must have been for the Bloomsbury types.
This book changed my perceptions of myself and my cultural values. I confess that I read it straight through one weekend when I was living alone in North Hollywood while I waa studying for my MFA at Cal Arts.
I am sorely, sorely tempted to give this five stars. Terrifically solid stuff - so well-executed that it is almost perfection.
Volume 1
A perfectly written source on Woolf's life.It's amazing how you find her character exceptional just as much as her works are.
Una bella biografia, corposa, esauriente, ricca di aneddoti, di notizie, di particolari, anche rispettosa e discreta per ciò che concerne alcuni aspetti delicati della vita di Virginia Woolf, le sue terribili crisi per esempio, come le chiama il nipote, che tanto hanno tolto alla donna ma che hanno reso unica la sua produzione letteraria, la sue vicende sentimentali.
E invece è vero, queste pagine scivolano via proprio come se si stesse leggendo un romanzo: un romanzo narrato da un uomo forse un po' petulante e compiaciuto, ma pur sempre un romanzo interessante.Questa biografia ci dà la possibilità di camminare assieme a Virginia Woolf, di vederla crescere da ragazzina insicura e piena di timidezza fino a diventare la fragile ma grandissima scrittrice che tanto ha dato al mondo della letteratura.E accanto all'immagine austera e malinconica della Virginia intellettuale, sempre china sui suoi fogli, devastata da una malattia mentale che tanto ha tolto alla donna e forse tanto ha dato all'artista, Quentin Bell, anche grazie all'abbondante utilizzo di materiale epistolare, ci permette di conoscere anche una Virginia più umana, una donnina dalla lingua troppo lunga, incapace di mantenere un segreto e sempre pronta a parlare alle spalle a chiunque.
The times she lived, the people she lived among, and the ways she lived and traveled are all very illuminating about her time and place.
What time they had for socializing and traveling!
I read that bio of her that came out 15 years ago that made much of the abuse from George Duckworth and I then dismissed it as overwrought and reaching.
Now, though, reading Bell, I see more the anxiety that was created by the whole circumstance of her life, and so taken together, I think I have a greater understanding for her "madness."
I feel we can't go through another of those terrible times.
I don't think two people could have been happier till this terrible disease came.
I know that I am spoiling your life, that without me you could work.
What I want to say is I owe all the happiness of my life to you.
You have been entirely patient with me and incredibly good.
I want to say that—everybody knows it.
Everything has gone from me but the certainty of your goodness.
I can't go on spoiling your life any longer.
I don't think two people could have been happier than we have been
A biography of Virginia Woolf by her nephew Quentin Bell.
I can't exaggerate how much I was not looking forward to this book and how much it has been an unexpected delight.
I have never been able to get into a Virginia Woolf book and I didn't think I'd like her as a person but I do love the Bloomsbury world and here is a book written by someone who was a member of that world with the subject the most famous Bloomsbury novelist.I realised quickly that this was the second volume of a two volume biography.
Enjoyed Bell's biography of his famous aunt.
He portrays her complexities, her passions, her whims and her humors, her affections and her prejudices, her fears, and yes, her sexuality too.
(Although, Virginia appears far less fixated on her own sexuality than her modern readers are.) She appears with a varied cast of characters, all nearly as fascinating as she is.
He writes with Austen-esque minuteness but I found the book moved quickly all the same.
He writes with both compassion and a certain distance.
I especially enjoyed his wry asides.
one would have to be either God or Virginia, preferably God."
"Virginia Woolf: A Biography"is written by Virginia Woolf's nephew, Quentin Bell, son of Virginia's sister, Vanessa Bell.
If you want a wonderful and captivating description of the Bloomsberry group by all means head straight for Quentin Bell's biograpy.
There are also a large set of photographs illustrating life in London and at Charleston Farm rented by Vanessa Bell.
(If any of you had seen my former review of this biography you will have noticed the difficulty with finding Quentin Bell's exact description.
After a fast note to goodreads, they speedily fixed the problem.
Thank you, goodreads.
You have to be a Virginia Woolf nut to even think of reading this book.
Its strong point are her nephew's encylopedic comments on her life.
The weak point is sometimes there was too much of "she did this with so-and-so" -- almost a Facebook of her life without enough comment on why she did what she did.
I did give it three points, though, because toward the end 1)he did go into more detail about what she thought about her writing (varying between good and bad) 2)there's a heck of a lot of historical detail here, and 3)I am a Virginia Woolf nut.
In my opinion, Virginia Woolf, by her nature, would seem to be an elusive subject for a biography.
Quentin Bell's achievement in this book is to bring a coherence to this material that gives the reader as intimate a portrait of Mrs. Woolf as can be created by a biographer.
The fact of Mr. Bell being the nephew of Mrs. Woolf, and of his having actually known her as his aunt, lends a great deal more insight into his subject.
This book is an invaluable part of the library of exegesis on the life and work of Mrs. Woolf.
A fine biography - straightforward, chronological - though a bit removed from the action, despite the fact that the author was the subject's nephew.
Still it's concise and gives a decent overview of the major events of Woolf's life, and her difficulties in writing each of her novels and essay collections.
I think that the descriptive tone is summed up with how the author concludes the book: once Quentin Bell describes the fact that Woolf committed suicide on the final page he chooses not to discuss her any further.
Anyway, an obvious read for Woolf fans.
I am sort of fascinated with Virginia Woolf.
But to be honest I most wanted to learn about her sordid home life as a child.
This book is unintentionally funny, not giving up the 'sick stuff that happened' goods though.
However if you ever want to read gossip about what happened to V.W.'s great great great aunt who lived in India and is described by the author as "her person was pleasing, her manners courtly, her tastes extravagant and her horsemanship?
Admirable." I haven't learned anything but it's pretty damn funny to pick a paragraph and read it out loud.
Fascinating insight...however peculiar.
However, one gets the impression while reading this that Mr. Bell cannot be objective and skims and glosses over major themes and events in Virginia's life (her lovers, her female friends, and even her death).
If, however, you are looking to know everything about Bloomsbury group and how each member took their tea - this is for you.Despite that, I did enjoy the read and am going to read another biographer's take to possibly fill in some of the things I felt were missing from this work.
