https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20938866-manvi-ni-bhavai
ગુજરાતી સાહીતય ની ઉતકૃષટ રચના .દરેક વયકતિએ વાંચવા જેવી. ખરેખર હરદય માં વસી જશે. . . . .
ગુજરાતી સાહીત્ય ની ઉત્કૃષ્ટ રચના .દરેક વયક્તિએ વાંચવા જેવી. ખરેખર હ્રદય માં વસી જશે. . . . .
i read this book in online
Like book
nice books
best book......
Tragic story set in the background of the Indian famine of 1899–1900, also known as "chhappaniyo dukal" in Gujarati.
How to read this book please send me reply quickly
It really gave me idea of people facing famine year after year…it shamed me not understanding the situation (as I was born farmer) of real history of my elders/ancestors who talk about old times.
At least now, I see real pictures of under privilege soul with Malnutrition in India, other Asian and African countries.About book, it is excellent and straight to point writing without misgivings.
Its simplicity in laying out plot levels to Patrick Rothfuss’s The Name of Wind.
It’s just my inclination towards justification of simplicity to the available plot.
I read this book twenty years back and since than I have not found any other Gujarati novel that I can compare with it.
The novel is published in four parts and since the fourth book I could not read twenty years back.
When I found full set of books, I thought to read the novel from beginning.
I was surprised to find that the novel even during its second reading had same effect on my mind.
The book originally published in 1947, way modern for its time.
It is a story of farmer.
And the character is so strong it fills you with enthusiasm.
ok i admit, i am not willing to believe all that is written, including the mother and the child incidence, what the leading character sees.won't be a spoiler and say what it was exactly, but if you read it you'll know.but i believe in human endurance.
and the goodness even in the baddest of times.
i read it when i was quite small, and it was so powerful that i have not been able to forget it ever.nor will be.
nicely written by one of the best Gujarati authors.
recommended.
if you don't know the importance of rain.
Universality serves as the crux of this novel with its flawed protagonist Kalu and his almost idealized beloved Raju. The natural calamity and the true wretchedness of Mali, the famine, the hunger, the begging, the utter and complete helplessness experienced by an agrarian community - each reveal the roles played out by humanity in its droll saga called life while it endure each hurdle thrown on its path.
a
I m interest in reading
i like read
fine
Superb
how to read??
Very nice book
Can U help Me Plz How I can Read this Book in this apps.....
57455
