https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9520360-the-son-of-neptune
4.5/5Great book! Slowish start but really picked up in the middle and had an EPIC ending!
I LOVED Percy Jackson, and it really would be a shame if this book is anything like The Red Pyramid, which I was so excited about and it fell a little short.
=PI heard somewhere that this was going to be a FIVE book series like Percy Jackson.
Son of Neptune was a lot more serious than the Lost Hero and all the Percy Jackson books.
By the end of the book, I was thinking, "I don't like him because he outshines my Percy!" Now though I guess he's okay.
I loved his chapters!!!!All in all though, the book was pretty good.
(A-) 83% | Very GoodNotes: Wherein boundaries matter, and transgressive misfits find strength and self in demon lands beyond the borderlines.
3.5/5This was my least favorite of the Percy Jackson books so far.
I think that the story is definitely heading in an interesting direction, but I just wasn't feeling it in this one.
It has taken me several tries over the months to even get through it.
I thought that, except for Percy, the characters were a little bland and I didn't care as much about the Roman camp and their mythology as much as the Greek.
I'm not saying that it was bad, I loved Percy and his sass and all of the jokes, just not my favorite compared to the previous books.
Absolutely adored this book! SO much better than the Lost Hero. I felt more connected to the characters, and PERCY!!! He was in the book. I was seriously missing him! All of his wit and snarky comments were back, along with a whole bunch of ADORABLE thoughts about Annabeth, as he regains his memory. Definately one of my favorites!! Now I need the MArk of Athena!
JASON STINKS!!!Though Leo's hot...Anyway, like I said before Hera messed with Goodreads, Rick Riordan may have lost his marbles when he wrote "The Lost Hero." I mean, come on, there is no way he can start a series with an arrogent amnesiac who everyone claims is the best thing since Pac Man to be as well loved as Percy.
Oh, and the battles where totally original, unlike "The Lost Hero", which seemed to borrow (steal) all it's battle ideas from the Percy Jackson series.I'm going to wrap this up now by saying that this book has restored my faith in Rick Riordan.
Rick Riordan   has completely taken control over my mind! In such a way that even if I want to read another book, I can't. Just can't! I have been reading PJ books in row for almost two month. I am supposed to get bored. But NO!It's pretty obvious by the title we will get Percy back in this one. When I first saw this book and didn't know a thing about greek or roman mythologies, I thought "Planet has a son?! How interesting!" 😂 OVERVIEW Without any past memories and being chased by two invinci
I have been reading PJ books in row for almost two month.
When I first saw this book and didn't know a thing about greek or roman mythologies, I thought "Planet has a son?!
Without any past memories and being chased by two invincible monsters, Percy finds Juno who leads him to the Camp-Jupiter, demi-god camp for romans.
I was very afraid of reading this book.
I thought Percy would forget Annabeth.
Like Jason forgot Reyna and ended up with Piper in the previous book.
Percy forgot everything but Annabeth.
Percy and Annabeth is the BEST!=> Hazel and Frank, both are new main characters.
i’m actually such rick riordan trash… it’s embarrassing.his books are basically a middle grade version of friends: absolutely hilarious with charming protagonists, and adorable ships.this book introduces some of the best characters we’ve seen from him so far - they’re flawed and honest, but best of all: so. much. development. source: officialclarkkent on tumblr a (long and) spoilery list of things to love about this book:  ● a summary of this 521 page book in one sentence: “I'm fine!" Percy yell
source: taratjah on tumblr ● if that’s not friendship then idk what is man ● i need me a nico please ● that scene in the beginning of the book when nico and hazel sit on the rooftop of Pluto’s shrine kills me everytime ok ● she confides in him ● he’s the only one who understands ● "you're my sister too" ● and then comes the Quest ● i love how she goes from a scared lowly legionnaire to a fucking queen ● as she starts letting frank and percy in, she stops being afraid of herself and that’s beautiful ● 
When he didn't make a single appearance in The Lost Hero, I finished the book and looked like this girl:So when I first read the excerpt and discovered that Percy was one of the main characters, I was SUPER EXCITED.
So if you haven't read it, just go away.) We all know that horrible cliffhanger at the end of The Lost Hero, informing us in the LAST FREAKING SENTENCE that Percy doesn't remember who he is anymore.
My few issues with this book:A) It's kind of obvious that the whole Roman thing didn't occur to Rick Riordan until after he'd written the Percy Jackson series.
I was just kind of bored for most of this story.
I just usually end up zoning out in parts like And these books are still aimed at a slightly younger audience, so I think you probably just have to be in the right mood to not be irritated by the cyclopes & harpies after a few pages.
I was clearly not in that mood.I love the characters and the diversity, though!!
The way the Roman camp was set up was my favorite part and I wished the story had stayed there instead of heading to Alaska.
I really did love the first 1/3 of the story.
PERCY!!! YOU GET YOUR ASS BACK HERE RIGHT NOW OR GAEA WILL BE THE LEAST OF YOUR PROBLEMS
I picked this one up just to go back to my old bookworm self thinking hey it's Percy Jackson it's fun, juvenile, nothing serious I'll definitely finish it and not watch another movie...and yeah I was right.
Percy Jackson in the new camp, amnesiac and confused and all that like Jason was.
There's only four left, I'm guessing the three would came from the Roman demigods camp (my wish was that the three kids would be a son/daughter of Mars, Pluto and Saturn)and the last kid will be Percy Jackson (son of Poseidon).
Highlight of this book: PERCY HAS RETURNED(s) - He’s kinda mopey and sad and confused in this book- But hes still Percy my son and baby- This precious kid is going through some memory issues atm (bc someone just had to make it hard for everyoneee)- But despite his fuzzy memories, the only think solid is his image of ANNABETH- YOU HEARD IT RIGHT KIDS- THIS SHIP WILL BE THE DEATH OF ME gahhhSo Percy is in loads of trouble and he meets up with these other demigod kids and they go on adventures toge
Highlight of this book: PERCY HAS RETURNED(s) -	He’s kinda mopey and sad and confused in this book-	But hes still Percy my son and baby-	This precious kid is going through some memory issues atm (bc someone just had to make it hard for everyoneee)-	But despite his fuzzy memories, the only think solid is his image of ANNABETH-	YOU HEARD IT RIGHT KIDS-	THIS SHIP WILL BE THE DEATH OF ME gahhhSo Percy is in loads of trouble and he meets up with these other demigod kids and they go on adventures together and be the sassy little French fries that they were born to be “Um...is that thing tame?" Frank said.The horse whinnied angrily."I don't think so," Percy guessed.
Come back by sundown on June twenty-fourth or die.’”The Son of Neptune is the second book in the spin-off series by Rick.
Of course you'll be spoiled but just in case you weren't interested in the first series but this one it's possible to read!“So you do have a plan?” Octavian asked skeptically.Percy looked at his teammates.
“We go to Alaska as fast as possible...”“And we improvise,” Hazel said."A lot," Frank added.”During this book we get to learn about the Roman gods and how they are in fact different from the Greeks.
The Son of Neptune is going to be a big hit.When it came out, I will buy it and read *out loud* ( maybe <3) 9:34 P.M - May, 26th, 2011OH mY GOSH...
PERCY HOLDING A CHICKEN STICK...I can't believe it, okay, I am going to search for chapter 1` 9:53 P.M - May, 26th, 2011 (the time in Asia, not in America)Is it necessary to put every details about me reading the son of Neptune...
AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!Comments from my friends from a group :)Connor:  Also, The Son of Neptune's cover was first seen in public during the webcast, and it was a great cover (entitled "Percy holding a chicken-on-a-stick".
I give Riordan credit for integrating so much information about Roman culture in a mostly natural way, through the device of Percy experiencing the camp for the first time.
Although I can't say I like it, Riordan doesn't pull punches on selfish behavior, and I admire the way the teens in the book can be as self-interested, manipulative and as driven as adults.
Only our lead 'heroes' in his books, Jason and Percy, are without shameful pasts (that they know).Character award goes to Ella, book-loving but vocabulary-challenged, in the best harpy appearance ever.
✩ 4 Stars ✩ A great sequel and setup for what’s to come.
I can’t wait to start the next book and I’m looking forward to seeing Annabeth again!!
“Come on,” he said “Let me introduce you to my other family.” ⋙ Cue Thin Lizzy’s ♫ The boys are back in town ♫ because I’m pumped!
Some shenanigans while I sing and dance...
Maybe there had been a mix-up.
Wasn’t there some sort of DNA test for gods’ kids?
“Oh, I’m strictly nonviolent,” Iris said.
To the finish.”...oh and anything that Ella said, or did, especially relating to her love of 📚✨
3.5 stars  “[...] You’re the glue that will unite the seven.”“Great,” Percy said. “I always wanted to be the glue.” I missed Percy so much! And I always love reading about quests. I especially love when the demigods meet weird people (Phineas, Stheno and Euryale, Terminus) that are so ridiculous and funny af. I wish this book was less dense and slow and long though. I didn’t like Hazel and Frank as much as I wanted to and I kept looking ahead to see how many pages till I got to read Percy’s pov
“[...] You’re the glue that will unite the seven.”“Great,” Percy said.
“I always wanted to be the glue.”
And I always love reading about quests.
I didn’t like Hazel and Frank as much as I wanted to and I kept looking ahead to see how many pages till I got to read Percy’s pov again.
Their backstories were too much detailed sometimes that reading felt like moving through quicksands (or Alaskan mudflats if we want to be specific haha!).So far I prefer the first series to this one.
Finally this amnesia plot is over so I guess the next book will be better.
Buy this book HERE on Amazon   or buy this book HERE on BookDepository with FREE WORLDWIDE SHIIPPING 4 of 5 stars (Please read my rating system further below). I'm so glad Percy is back! Percy and Annabeth reuniting was the highlight of the book for me. Of course (:My rating system: (I do use half stars.)5 - I do not use the 5 star. Not because a book might not be worthy, but because a book is never perfect.4 - I loved it! There weren't too many flaws, and I had no trouble getting through it. (
Buy this book HERE on Amazon
or buy this book HERE on BookDepository with FREE WORLDWIDE SHIIPPING
4 of 5 stars (Please read my rating system further below).
Percy and Annabeth reuniting was the highlight of the book for me.
Of course (:My rating system: (I do use half stars.)5 - I do not use the 5 star.
(A 4 star rating is the highest rating I've ever given a book.)3 - I enjoyed the book, but there we're flaws that made me enjoy it less.2 - I finished the book, but there were too many flaws for me to enjoy it.1 - I could not finish the book, and I probably did not finish it....
Another Percy Jackson book - here we go again...There's a real pattern I'm seeing with plots in Riordan's books and unfortunately he doesn't ever seem to stray very far from his one blueprint.
The Son of Neptune fits the same pattern all over again, I have to say I'm getting bored with the repetition.Riordan occasionally tries to insert a little commentary about our own world into his books, kind of like this:
Very unimpressive.I do commend Rick Riordan on the big steps he's made towards diversifying the Percy Jackson books.We now have a gay necromancer, a latino pyromaniac, an African American psychic's daughter, and a Chinese warrior joining the cast of demigods in the series.
The story follows the adventures of amnesiac Percy Jackson, a demigod son of Poseidon, as he meets a camp of Roman demigods and goes to Alaska with his new friends Hazel Levesque and Frank Zhang to free the Greek god of death, Thanatos and help save the world from Gaea, the earth goddess.
The novel is narrated in third-person, switching between the points of view of Percy, Frank, and Hazel.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سیزدهم ماه سپتامبر سال 2013 میلادیعنوان: پسر نپتون - کتاب 2 از مجموعه قهرمانان کوه المپ؛ نوشته: ریک ریوردان؛ مترجم: فرزام حبیبی اصفهانی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، بهنام، 1392، در 588 ص، شابک: 9789645668998؛ موضوع: اساطیر یونان و روم برای کودکان از نویسندگان امریکایی قرن 21 مپسر نپتون جلد دوم از مجموعه قهرمانان المپ اثر ریک ریوردن است و در پهارم ماه اکتبر سال 2011 برای نخستین بار توسط انتشارت دیزنی منتشر شده است.
I loved it
holY SHIT HOOOO BOY. damn this is the best book in this series and on PJO so far. i loved every minute of it ilove every character. i enjoyed seeing my son PERCY god i missed him. this was excellent 10/10 a+ would recommend.
How do I even differentiate when they're behaving Greek-ish or Roman-ish?!?!I know this series wasn't probably planned when Percy Jackson and the Olympians was written, but those sudden changes sound to me like plot holes, and I'm afraid I'll never truly get to understand this world again - not like I did while reading PJO, at least.The characters were another reason why I didn't like this as much as I wanted.
Since we're now in a different camp, new characters are introduced, and just so the same old formula Riordan used in PJO can apply to this, it's again a trio: Percy, Frank and Hazel.
UPDATE:The cover's out.
COVER.
He he.BUT STILL.I actually forgot about the book.
5 MORE LOOOOOOOOOOONG MONTHS!!!*pulls hair due to extreme impatience*GAHH!!
First and the most obvious is that Percy is the son of Neptune *bow* and he's the one switched for Jason.
And Percy being the son of Poseidon which is also Neptune in roman myth?
And oh yes, I expect catfights between Piper and the other girl >:)I hope that Percy doesn't get into someone at the roman camp, cause with Annabeth still around, there's surely gonna be trouble.
Well, just have to wait for the book.
5 FREAKIN MONTHS!!!
NEED IT!!!!!!!!!NOW..... *DOES CREEPY LAUGH*PERCY!!!!!!! Yay he's on the cover! which can only mean it'll be from his p.o.v (oh please oh please!) ...........................................................finally!!!!!!!!!!!!!! i have it!.......................................well, that was a majer cliff-hanger... how am i supposed to wait till next fall???????????!!!!!!!!!!!!!

PERCYYYY. I missed him so much in book 1, but in the process I became really attached to the three new characters we were introduced to. I was really hoping hat they would be in this book, but instead we got a couple MORE new characters (who are also awesome, so no complaints there). A lot of new questions have come up in regards to some of the characters' back stories, so I'm really excited to hop into the next book to find out what's going on!!
Final rating: 5/5 stars   “Life is only precious because it ends, kid.” Whoa, that was interesting read. I am beginning to enjoy these much more than PJ books - probably because of vast variety of characters - and all of them are unique and interesting. And is it just me, or is this series a little bit darker than PJ?That aside, i really enjoyed it - it was a fast page turner and it had a gripping plot. The start of the book was kind of slow, but it still held my attention. The whole new world i
I am beginning to enjoy these much more than PJ books - probably because of vast variety of characters - and all of them are unique and interesting.
The whole new world is now revealed - the Roman aspect of the story = camp Jupiter = the place where Roman demigods stay for safety and for training.
Those three are Percy (who has amnesia), Hazel (daughter of Hades/Pluto) and Frank (the unclaimed one).
: ____________________________________________This time, we are introduced to new characters Hazel & Frank, as well as the already known Percy Jackson.
Name a Rick Riordan's book that bores me to death: Error 404 not found.
Like any other books of his, I had so much fun reading this.
Not just because Percy's narrating again (finally!), but for the reason that literally everything in this book was incredible.I can never be tired of the writing style and the amount of sarcasms.
You should know that."Percy: "Detention?” The fact that Death (a.k.a Thanatos) referred The Doors of Death as  The Door of Me  was hilarious.Frank was just as funny!"Here's a tip, Alcyoneus.
I had to use a flashlight to read the last few pages.
