https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114144.Montana_Sky
Lastly, if you do kill a bear because it's attacking you, as unlikely as that is, at VERY least you have to report it!And MOST ANNOYING INNACCURACY I HAVE EVER READ:At one point, Sister is flirting with Love Interest over the round pen fence as he "puts a yearling through it's paces." Scene ends with Sister climbing up behind Love Interest, and galloping around bareback...
And for those of you readers that don't know horses: a yearling is the equivalent of a 6-year-old child, small, undeveloped, and much too young to be doing geometry (or galloping around with TWO people on its back!).
Once dead, his frustrating will dictates that his three daughters must live together on the ranch for a year to evenly inherit.Overly long and by-the-books predictable, the three women are severe stereotypes.
Trust me, put me in that position and I would have been an even bigger bitch to deal with than Tess was.There was tension of a serial slayer who mauled animals and women and left them for dead on the ranch, but I really didn't care much about that side-mystery.
As three strangers struggle with each other and the legacy of the unbending, frigid man who was their father, a psychotic killer stalks Mercy and threatens them all.It was 1997 when I first read Montana Sky. I'd never read anything quite like it, and it turned me on to the exquisite blend of romance and suspense and mystery that Roberts is so acclaimed at writing.
And despite the fact that Willa and Ben's relationship is the backbone of the romantic aspects in the book, the conclusion of that relationship arc felt a little less satisfying than those of Lily and Tess and their loves.
When three sisters - complete strangers to each other - try to live and work together on a ranch in Montana, sparks are bound to fly.The Wounded Deer, Hollywood and Cowgirl will have to put their differences aside and perhaps become the family they were meant to be.A perfect read for a rainy day.
Best with a cup of hot coffee and some great chocolate chip cookies ready on the side!
You'll be bound to get hungry while reading this as those people seem to be constantly eating something or the other in every single chapter.
:)A great story I truly enjoyed!
I read this when it first came out and then again a few years back. And I've seen the Lifetime movie as well. My rating is based on the enjoyment from years ago and I'm not sure what my reaction would be if I read it today. I did enjoy it enough to add it to my personal library when it initially came out.
It was truly sad that Willa strived all her life for a kind word and never got squat.Jack Mercy is dead, break open the champagne!
To cash in the sisters have to live together on the ranch for a year.Tess, the oldest sister, is a Hollywood screen writer and all she wants is the money so she can return to Hollywood.Lily, the middle sister, is on the run from an abusive ex-husband and is delighted to have a safe place to hid.Willa is the youngest sister and Jack's loss has hit her the hardest.
She was the only one to be raised on Mercy Ranch, which she loves with a fierce passion.
Adam, who is in charge of the ranch's horse breeding side and is also Willa's half-brother rounds up the cast.Adam is drawn to wounded Lily, who learns to trust men again through his gentleness and patience, Tess learns that there's more to life apart from the "civilisation" she's left behind, and finds happiness with Nate, a man whose contradictions surprise her, and Willa eventually succumbs to the attraction between herself and Ben, whom she'd been arguing and competing with all her life.A mystery helps in bringing them all close as well, since someone is mutilating cattle, before eventually escalating to people, and they seem to have it out for the Mercy sisters, while (view spoiler)[Lily's ex is also around, working as a farm hand in Ben's ranch waiting for the year to pass so that he can snatch Lily and her new wealth away.
3.5 / 5
Woohooo! This was LOOONGGGG but I loved every minute of it. I think this was one of the best Nora Roberts books I've ever read/listened to.
The arabic movie was based on Nora's novel, and both movies became one of my favorite that I watched many times over.After the death of their father, three half sisters Willa, Tess, and Lily Mercy (ندى، رقية، غادة أبو حجر) must live on his ranch (apartment) for one year to collect their inheritance.
This is similar in both movies.Willa is the one her father raised in the ranch, but she is so lonely and incapable of love.
So I hope he isn't related to her because they are my favorite.I bought the book last March, with many other Nora Roberts books.
Sigo diciendo que la espantosa adaptación de televisión me ha fastidiado bastante la lectura. Entretenido, sin más.
I was forced to read this for my MFA in writing Popular Fiction at Seton Hill University.
That being said, I would have stopped reading at 10%, which would have resulted in me missing a pretty decent romance.It wasn't the best, but.
. .This book is a simple mathematical computation.Multiply: a hot cowboy times 3Add three half-sisters, that don't really know each well, but are forced to get to know each other due to their dead father's will.
Additionally, at first I don't like any of them, but they grow on me.Add some tidbits of horror.Set this all against a pretty captivating setting:so all and all.
No han sabido traducir determinadas expresiones que eran básicas y que han hecho que saliera de la lectura una y otra vez.
Respecto a los protagonistas tampoco puedo decir mucho.
No sé casi nada de su infancia (y había muchas posibilidades) y si ya hablamos de la historia de amor con Ben...
me falta pasión, amor, conversaciones entre ambos por todas partes.
En cuanto a las historias de las otras dos hermanas tampoco puedo decir demasiado.
Adam y Lily tenían mucha historia detras que no se ha contado y no entiendo por qué.En fin, pese a que Nora Roberts me encanta este libro no me ha enganchado en ningún momento.
Thank the heavens for another stormer of a novel from Nora Roberts with none of those pesky supernatural, paranormal happenings. This is a straight forward awesome romance with a bit of suspense thrown in to keep the stakes high of course.I loved the setting. I have always wanted to go to Montana and stay on a ranch but I figure I would be a mix of Tess and Lily once I'm there. Anyway, beautiful, gorgeous setting.And the three sisters! Awesome characterisation and you fall in love with all thre
This is a straight forward awesome romance with a bit of suspense thrown in to keep the stakes high of course.I loved the setting.
I have always wanted to go to Montana and stay on a ranch but I figure I would be a mix of Tess and Lily once I'm there.
Anyway, beautiful, gorgeous setting.And the three sisters!
Awesome characterisation and you fall in love with all three of them.
Nate/Tess - the least interesting romance but also very loveable.I could actually have done without the ~drama~ but I guess it kept the plot flowing.
Turns out I'm really not enamored of thriller elements in Roberts's plots.
I kept wishing they weren't there, or that they were different.
But I liked the sisters a lot, and I appreciated the observation that they were all supposed to hate each other.
Jack Mercy: what an idiot.
Though I wish Willa and Ben had acknowledged that ultimately, they were what Jack wanted, and I wish Adam had felt less like a protector and Lily less like a lost child.
Otherwise, there are a lot of golden moments here, particularly "I went to Yale." I had to stop reading so I could laugh.
La historia pintaba interesante y con 450 páginas pensaba que habría tiempo suficiente para desarrollar todos los personajes a la perfección, pero no ha sido así.
There were pages and pages to give some depth to the plot and characters, however, they were full of repetitions.The romances have been cheesy.The bad guy POV lacked seriousness and was shallow.And the story has been long and boring.I only can think that if you loved the film, you will love the book.If the film seemed to you corny and frivolous… you will feel the same about the book.
Montana Sky is a delightful story of three women learning to trust one another and finding love in the unlikeliest of places.Jack Mercy lived his life as a hard man and died the same way.
When a brutal enemy begins leaving increasingly dangerous threats on Mercy land, the women will have to band together if they're to survive the year.Jack's three daughters are all completely different women who despite their vastly different backgrounds form an incredible bond over the year.
Lily's match is Adam, Willa's half brother, who is incredibly kind and patient.
Definitely would recommend this to anyone who is looking to read a quintessential Nora Roberts book.
Willa is so strong and stubborn and Ben is so patient and knows exactly how to handle her.Adam and Lily are about the sweetest couple ever.
I was pulled in once the book started describing scenes with the newcomer, "JC", especially when we learn that Lily's ex is Jesse Cook.
I kept expecting someone to have a picture of him at some point, especially Nate.
But then he came to her house way too soon in the book and I further believed that there must be another bad guy.
And not only do they have to adjust to each other and their changed lives, but sinister things start happening as well.This was not one of Nora Roberts' better efforts.
This twist happened about 100 pages before the end of the book, and it took most of that 100 pages to resolve the twist, by which time I was getting a bit bored.As far as brain candy goes, this was pure candy floss - insubstantial, sickly and bad for your teeth :)
Could've done without the drawn-out drama and the multiple chapters from the killer's POV, which I never like. (view spoiler)[But bonus points for letting Ham live in the end. I would've been upset had he not made it. (hide spoiler)]But aside from that, I loved this. SISTERSSSSSSS. I loved all three of them, but I do believe Tess was my favourite. Although I might change my mind about that in a couple of minutes' time, because they're all pretty great. Ben and Willa were by far my favourite pair
Could've done without the drawn-out drama and the multiple chapters from the killer's POV, which I never like.
(view spoiler)[But bonus points for letting Ham live in the end.
I would've been upset had he not made it.
(hide spoiler)]But aside from that, I loved this.
SISTERSSSSSSS.
I loved all three of them, but I do believe Tess was my favourite.
Ben and Willa were by far my favourite pairing though.
I also love the fact that all of this takes place over a year.
It helps the relationships develop in a more believable way than most romance novels.
Adam helped Lily in overcoming her insecurities and her fears, Nate helped Tess smooth out some of the rough edges, and Ben and Willa, well, everything.I know this was supposed to be the story of three sisters finding their way together, finding love in the heart of Montana, but for me, this was the story of Willa.
Ben McKinnon runs the ranch next door with his father and brother.Tess agrees to staying the year because she wants her cut of the ranch (the ranch is worth 18-20 million) Lilly jumps at staying because she finds it peaceful and wants to hide out there.
By the time Adam, Ben and Willa find the cave and her, they find a fire was build and Jesse is dead (cut up and gutted and scalped like the other murders) and Lilly is delerious with a high fevor.
The murderer turned out to be one of the men who worked on the ranch, named Jim. He stabbed Ham because Ham found him with the cow.
Klasik Nora tarzında, üç kız kardeş üç de boylu poslu erkek; kısacası Nora'nın üçleme takıntısının güzel bir örneği.
Adından anlaşılacağı gibi Montana'da bir çiftlikte geçiyor, önce kız kardeşler bağlarını kuruyor, bu esnada da erkeklere kalplerini kaptırıyorlar.
Bu kısmı tam tahmin ettiğim gibi çıktı ama yine de beğendim.
Sevimli ama heyecan dolu bir kitap daha olmuş.
---This one is definitely a Nora Roberts story.
At a ranch in Montana you see love, mystery, thriller and you want to keep reading.
I guessed the mystery part but it didn't change the way I feel about the book.
The story is lovely and a full of tension.
Just spänningsromanerna av Nora Roberts blir man sällan besviken på, den här var inget undantag! Rekommenderas varmt!
The love I have for her books is right up there with family.
..
I also loved how each sister gained a little something from having entered one another's lives, such as Tess's confidence, Willa's capability and Lily's perseverance.
They all made each other better in some, or a lot of ways and each sister left an impression on me.Lily's conversation to Adam about her abusive marriage and how it came to be and why she didn't even know what was happening until it was too late, was one of the most accurate, informative and heart wrenching portrayals of spousal abuse I've ever read.
MONTANA SKYWritten by Nora Roberts1996; Berkley (448 Pages)Genre: fiction, mystery, suspenseJack Mercy - a gruff mean old SOB - has died and leaves to his three daughters (by three different wives) a third of the ranch.
The ranch means everything to her as does her father's approval.
Lily is the only one who does not mind the terms as she is on the run from her abusive ex-husband.To make things worse their seems to be a murderer loose...this only makes the Mercy women stronger with the men beside them.I loved this novel - it has everything you wish for in a good read - adventure, romance, mystery and well written.
Full disclosure, this was my very first audio book experience, and if I’m being honest, I didn’t particularly enjoy it.The woman narrating this story was pretty impressive with her vocal fluency and effortless character changes, so I must give props to that aspect of the storytelling.As for the actual story, it's good.
I’m pretty certain that if I had’ve actually read this story I would have rated it higher.
I know many of my friends love listening to their stories in audio book format, but I’m very much a subscriber of actually reading a story myself in order to appreciate it fully.
Good things: Montana (I love the scenery in the film Horse Whisperer and for some reason the book reminded me of the film), Adam and Nate, I loved reading about them (especially when Nate tells Tess that he- the cowboy from Montana- graduated from Yale or the first sex scene with Nate and Tess...steamy, steamy....), Tess was also good character, a strong woman who thought she knew what she wanted but learned that life doesn't always go the way you plan...And the not so great things: I got the impression that Willa was mad or annoyed so much and I don't like it when the heroine kicks or hits the hero when things doesn't go the way she wanted and therefore I sometimes wondered what Ben saw in her.
But overall, it was a good book, some characters were better than others and the story moved forward pretty quickly, and they all got their happy ever after =)
