https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1970362.A_History_of_Russia

Lo credevo una specie di manuale di scuola, ma leggendo mi sono reso conto del lavoro buonissimo fatto da Riasanovsky nel condensare in 600 pagine più di duemila anni di storia russa (dagli Sciti e Sarmati a Gorbačëv, per capirci).
Una sintesi efficace che riesce a darci a tutto tondo gli aspetti storici e politici, non solo, ma anche quelli economici e culturali.
Insomma, una bellissima presentazione della storia e della cultura russa, con spunti per ulteriori approfondimenti.
For an overview of Russian history, from Kievan Rus to the post-communist rule of Vladimir Putin, this book does a good job.
On the other hand, this is a rather shallow look at Russian history, barely dipping its toes into the ocean of reasons behind changes, and spending even less time analysing the people involved.
I am told in general terms WHAT they did, but very little time is spent on the reasoning and personalities.
The book is also plagued by a good number of spelling mistakes and strange grammar, which occasionally makes the narrative difficult to follow.
In previous and later chapters of the book, the authors seem to take pains to provide us with a picture of the way the average Russian lived during a given period of Russian history, but their treatment of the average Russian under the Communists is insufficient and incomplete.
I would also like to have seen the sections covering the life of the Russian Orthodox Church expanded, though this might reflect my own interests more than any insufficiency on the part of the authors.
A good textbook with clear and simple prose, but very dry for the casual reader. X happens and then Y happens and professors Z1 and Z2 have such-and-so interpretations, but with almost no quotations from primary sources or detail to give color (and improve retention of the material).
This is probably the best history "textbook" I've ever read. This has gotten me through my Russian history course. Never underestimate the power of a good textbook, especially in the face of a poor lecturer..
Classic history of Russia by noted scholarThis classic survey of Russian history is an excellent overview of this sprawling cultural, military, and political power which has had such a major impact on the world over the last centuries. Written by one of the pre-eminent scholars in the field, it can serve as a textbook introducing students to major topics, a reference for those looking for summaries and overviews of key themes and developments, or simply an informative work for those wanting a decent introduction to the history of this fascinating and complex land.
Ereditato dalla biblioteca di mio papà, edizione italiana Garzanti copertina rigida 1965 e letto tanti anni fa. fu la mia prima introduzione alla storia russa. Interessante, dovrei rileggerlo alla luce di tanti libri letti poi su singoli aspetti.
This is a how a history book must be written.
It gives you a taste of the average Russian's life and spirit through its history.
Without being at the same time too neutral to be indifferent, it gives an understanding of the debates surrounding Russian historiography.
Also newcomers to the subject don't find themselves lost as one sees Russia in its place in the panorama which means one always gets the crucial part of history: context.I felt uncomfortable in the beginning owing to the unfamiliarity of this terrain.
This however does not mean the unfamiliarity is shed.
With all the recent activity in Ukraine and Crimea,the history of Russia deserves another opportunity to be read it again. Russia's history no doubt indeed is very complicated and uncertain. The author explains multiple theories with the origins of the Kievan Rus. The author explores each period of time with different categories as: literature, architecture,education and political organization. The version I read was the 4th which ends in 1976. The book narrative is easy and difficult in some parts,but the author explains every major aspect in detail.
Reading this for university.
Someone quiz me on Russian history, I dare you. I'm ready. 800 large, small text and tiny margin-ed pages ready.
Clear and presented in a manner which I didn't think was terribly dry(warning: I'm nerdy about history), I found this to be everything I wanted in an initial foray into Russian history.
Quite matter-of-fact and balanced with alternate theories presented where appropriate and sources meticulously recorded.
Further, there is an extensive list of reading material provided at the end of the text for those who wish to get into more detail on a given period than was allowed for in this volume.
A gentleman scholar was kind enough to give insight and a helpful list here: http://waltrichmond.blogspot.com/2013...
This is an academic textbook that covers the history of Rus/Russia to approximately 2010.
Its covers both classic history but also culture of each time period.
It is less straightforward than Russia and Russians which is a more one opinion work.
The only flaw/disappointment was how they dealt with Stalin or rather did not deal with him.
From reading this text one would not get the impression of who or what Stalin was.
All and all a good read for anyone wanting an english text that deals with Russian and particularly good are the insights into culture in different time periods.
A very broad look at Russia's History. A good source for quick facts and a general scope on Russia, but not that great for a close look at any particular ruler.
This is an academic survey and has all the vices and virtues of the genre. It's comprehensive and learned, and generally well-written and edited, but also a bit dry and abstract. One doesn't get much of a sense of what life was like at a given time. Still, it fulfilled its function. I wanted a chronological survey, and I got a decent one. Now I have an idea of what blanks I want to fill in.
3.5 stars. Yes, I did read the whole thing, thank you very much. I absolutely loved my history of Russia class, and this was certainly the better of the two required textbooks.
Unlike many of the books I read in school, I frequently turn to this one to clarify a fact or refresh my memory of the general picture of Russia at a given point in its history.
When I did use it for school, it was among the best sourcebooks I was assigned, and I think I actually kept up with the reading assignments, aided no doubt by the accessible and interesting style of the writing.
He is clearly no fan of Stalin, and gives complete coverage of the oppressive and extremist nature of that regime, but he also points out that Russia might not have survived World War Two without him.
I was recommended this book in Professor Irwin Weil's syllabus for 'Classics of Russian Literature'.
This is essential reading for anyone who wants to gain a deeper understanding of Russia.
It covers the creation of Russia to the Soviet era.
It is very comprehensive, covering not only the rulers but also explains the economic, cultural and social scene.
I would recommend buying the latest edition so that you have the most recent events.
Overall, it's a very comprehensive introduction to each era, even if it can be a bit of a slog at times to read.
Riasanovsky focuses on the various forces that interact in the Russian people; the West versus the Slavic heritage, the Orthodox heritage versus Communism, indeed, Russia is a land of contradictions.
This is an excellent history of Czarist Russia.However, for the period since 1917, this book would rate only 3 stars.
Riasanovsky's profound analysis seems to be stulted considerably when he discusses the Soviet Union.
This is why one must utilize post-Soviet materials in order to get a good understanding of Soviet history.Overall I would recommend this book for students of Russian history.
This edition--published during the Andropov-Chernenko transition--however, fails to draw the Russian authoritarian through-line: to rule Russia means to rule with an iron fist, whether that be Rus, Mongol, Romanov, or Bolshevik.While aptly criticizing the Soviets for the stifling of creative energies and economics, he seemingly accepts their rule as inevitable.
597; hardbound):"Of special significance for the future of the Soviet Union might be a confluence of economic change and general liberal opposition and protest.
If Stalinism represented deep winter, the entire period since the death of the supreme dictator might be designated as the thaw.
The thaw continues.
This is a text book, so it has everything one might hope for in a history: great bibiliography, both for English and Russian sources, great maps, fantastic index -- in fact, everything one could want to learn about Russia ...
He seems to have well understood the pressure Reagan's military buildup would have to have on the USSR, but he doesn't have the hindsight to see how things would turn out.I've recently read biographies of Ivan the Terrible, Peter the Great, Catherine the Great and The Romanovs as a monarchy, and while Riasanovsky's book is thorough in covering all periods, it makes light work (and barely mentions, obliquely it seems) the extent of the tortures and other violent episodes of the time of Ivan and Peter, at least.
It is one of the most poorly written history books I have ever read.
Sentences and facts are constantly qualified, as if the author is afraid to state a fact or opinion.
The thoughts and flow are poorly organized, which the author attempts to correct by using long compound sentences.
I was very excited to get a history of Russia, especially concerning the earlier periods, as I enjoy reading history and had just finished a good work on medieval Europe (@400 AD - 1200 AD).
I really wanted to follow the connected tribal migrations and religious history to the east for the same period.
I wanted a book that was comprehensive on the history of Russia, understandable by a layman that did not know much about it beforehand, not too boring to be able to go through the end, not too full of references to other famous historian works.I found all of that and more.
What I did not expect what that the tone of the book would be that wry and that many topics would be used as to show what the author believes to be the Russian soul and spirit (I'm not speaking about vodka there).
Awesome overview of Russia from its humble beginnings to the madhouse it became during the post-Soviet era.
I would recommend this to anyone wanting to learn about Russia for the very first time.
It is also a nice resource for 'quick facts' about particular eras in Russian history/literature/political thought.
It is incredibly readable as well dedicating entire sections to the aforementioned: history, political thought and literature.
I managed to read the ENTIRE thing throughout the course of a single semester and LOVED every minute of it.
If you love Russia or just aren't so sure about it - READ IT :)
This book was a bear of a book.
It's 629 pages long and covers the history of Russia since the beginning of time.
Since this covers hundreds of years, it cannot go into great detail for many of major events.
Yet oddly, the author would felt it was important to cover the arts, literature, and present many statistics for every major time frame.
I guess the author wanted to cover every aspect of Russian life.Overall, I am better informed about Russia and know which topics I would want to read about specifically.
But, it was very challenging to stay engaged with the book.
Lungo da leggere, complesso e pieno di informazioni concentrate. Copre bene tutti i passaggi storici, con approfondimento sulla cultura, arte, religione ecc...Copre tutto il periodo dal 900 AD fino al 1986 con integrazione di Sergio Romano fino a Putin.Lascia da approfondire in particolare il succedersi dei fatti storici particolari (guerre, battaglie , fatti spiccioli) che sono solo visti nelle loro conseguenze.Un ottimo compendio che fa ben comprendere sopratutto quanto sia complesso e diverso quel pezzo di mondo.
The latest edition demonstrates why Risanovsky's and Steinberg's text remains the standard for undergraduate Russian history courses. This well-balanced volume covers Russia from prehistory to present, including political, economic, social, and cultural history. The last two chapters, on Putin's Russia, could use a touch more editing and proofreading, but all in all fine work.
I've wanted to read this for a long time because I wanted to learn about Russia, and this is the textbook they use at UCLA, but I was a little intimidated because I thought it might be overwhelming. Once I jumped in, I looked forward to reading it every day. I learned a lot, and the index may be one the best I've ever seen.
I loved this book (the 4th edition) when I was in college. I still have it, I love it that much. And now I know that there is an 11th edition, which I want to get. But I won't get rid of the book from college. For sentimental reasons, I guess.
