https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99951.Objectivism
Objectivism is the philosophy of writer and philosopher Ayn Rand.
For instance, it explains why atheists Stalin and Mao were every bit as oppressive and evil as their religious counterparts(a common argument from Christians which I have found few, if any, atheists able to accurately argue against).For those who may not be interested in plain philosophy and technical arguments I would recommend "The Fountainhead" and "Atlas Shrugged" which contain the same ideas expressed through characters and their actions (the most ideal means of expressing them in Rand's view).
In terms of form, fascism arises out of the perceived crisis of liberalism, with the assistance of traditional rightwing groups, under threat from an alleged leftwing menace, during the period of mass politics (42 ff.).Analysis of the Relevant Facts under the Applicable LawClose reading of Peikoff’s systemization of Rand’s work demonstrates that Objectivism fits both Paxton's and Griffin’s definitions of fascism, to wit:Peikoff slides lubriciously into the rectal canal of Griffin’s definition: radicals for capitalism who arise after the Bolshevik Revolution, desire to fix the degenerate United States, which has fallen away from its constitutional roots after the pinnacle of freedom during the 19th century.
I make no statement on free will as such, but the way she has created her metaphysical principals would lead her to a deterministic world view in the mode of Einstein's block universe, the opposite from what she wants to show.
She is definitely not versed in philosophy but thinks she has an ultimate system with her pretend Objectivism of the real world and valuing the selfishness within us as the ultimate good within her ontology.
Nietzsche can be understood in terms of Ayn Rand's world view, but she doesn't realize it, and her philosophy borders on the incoherent and nonsensical, but Nietzsche at least gives the appearance of rational thought.
I thought this was a very good book. I disagree with the fundamentals, but the book does exactly what you expect, and does it really well. Five stars because I disagree with the notion of giving a low rating to a book about objectivism on the grounds that it's a book about objectivism.
Using an axiom and corollary system approach with philosophy will be totalitarian when applied to large populations because, at least in the case of objectivism, they leave no room for mythology, tradition, prejudice, or religion to name a few human universals.
Objectivism today is attractive to some conservatives because it appears to use logic to prove some of the components of conservatism like individualism and free market capitalism, but objectivism is a false god.
But Rand's success is rooted in the unsubtle but dramatic Fountainhead and Atlas Shrugged , not in tracts like Capitalism, the Unknown Ideal .
Pretty much all the questions I still had about Objectivism were cleared up after reading this book.
2012 ReadingIt was a delight revisiting this book.
I was surprised how many new thoughts re-reading triggered, particularly in metaphysics and epistemology.I was also captivated by the historical perspective thinking back to reading this book immediately after it was published.
Having started to learn Objectivism before this book, it is easy to forget how much more difficult it was when you had an in-depth treatment of part of epistemology, scattered, often highly polemical essays, and the best statement of some fundamental points was still a novel.
This book was an amazing accomplishment that it is easy to overlook in a modern context.
For those who are not readers of philosophy this book may be difficult, but if you are interested in understanding or refuting Rand's viewpoints, reading this book is a must.The concepts take time to understand, but like anything worth doing the work and the decision to take time will pay off.
If you feel you are a follower of Rand's ideas, then this book is the definitive work in understanding exactly what it is that you claim.
If you are a critic of Rand's philosophy, step up to the plate and quit using straw man arguments: read the book, understand the concepts, and only then can we have an intellectual conversation concerning Rand's philosophy and/or her novels.
Period.While it deals with deep philosophic issues, they are extremely relevant to the problems we face on an individual and social level.The book deals with the five main branches of philosophy (metaphysics, epistemology, ethics, politics and esthetics), and presents the Objectivist view of each.Objectivism can be summed up in the following way:Reality exists independent of human consciousness.
Human beings have a definite nature (like everything else that exists), and ethics defines how human beings should behave in order to advance their lives as individuals, neither sacrificing themselves to others or sacrificing others for their own gains.A political system must grant individuals the freedom to think for themselves and act in accordance to their convictions.
First I read "Atlas Shrugged" and connected with the heroes of that book.
I then thought I would see if Ayn Rand wrote any other books (oh, boy did she!) and discovered that she was a Philosopher and the inventor of a Philosophy called "Objectivism".
I read this book as a way to introduce myself to Ayn Rand's Objectivism and found my self very intrigued.
I will be re-reading this book and will start making my way through the rest of Ayn Rand's works.
If you're a beginner or just starting to read philosophy this is a great book to start with. This book not only changed my entire outlook in life, it also altered the way I looked at religion. 'Objectivism:The Philosophy of Ayn Rand' is the most comprehensive and all inclusive exposition that you will need to begin your first steps, and it helps you understand explicitly the complexity of many original ideas, not to mention----the fundamental laws that drive mankind.
A thrilling read. The only authoritative work on Ayn Rand's system of thought.
It is firmly contextualized in classical philosophic debates (although on its own terms, in opposition to subjectivism and intrincisism - "and its corollary mysticism"), as a proper reconstruction of and conclusion to the philosophy of Aristotle.
One nice point in Objectivism is the primacy of existence axiom.
I think her philosophy of ethics are more clear from Rand's own novels.The big problem for this book, for Rand, and for pretty much all of her fans, is the condescending rhetoric; the presumption that they are correct and that others are vehicles of the "evil" alternatives to its world view.
Okay I didn't read this but I read a very good long fanfic about BTS and I feel it should count for something on my read books list. So since I will never ever ever read another book by or about Ayn Rand, I'm saying I read this because why the heck not? I sat through a master's thesis defence of Rand as an Epicurian not an Aristotelan, I've earned it. And I'm really sure Brokeback Bangtan is a lot more fun.
Ayn was clever to write books that contained her philosophy and then find experts to write about it.
Yes, the famous book "the selfish gene" supports partly her ideas but then again Philosophies are a way of masking the hard life realities and set directions for humanity.
This direction is as utopic as communism and I got the feeling that comes out of the romantic era and during cold war politics.
I bet a Russian against Russian system was the best propaganda tool during the 30s,40s,50s so for sure Ayn served the system well and got very recognized.
It is American because it identifies the implicit base of theUnited States, as the country was originally conceived.It is true that Aristotle has flaws, which always gave his enemies an opening.
The good, in this context, includes reality, man the hero, and man's tool of survival.----------------------------------This book is about the virtue of selfishness and utilitarianism in philosophy.--------------------------------------------اگر مایل به شناخت این نکته هستید که چرا ما به آمریکاییان میگوییم اینان مستکبران فی الارض هستند فلسفه ی آین رند را از دست ندهید.
Dr. Peikoff’s book, Objectivism: The Philosophy of Ayn Rand, is superlative.
This book offers a comprehensive and systematic approach to understanding Ayn Rand’s revolutionary system of philosophy.
While Ayn Rand was a prolific writer, her work spans through several novels and countless essays on philosophy, culture, etc., she never set out to write a comprehensive treatise on her philosophy.
While Peikoff himself had no input into the creation of Objectivism, as he himself admits, he is Rand’s designated philosophical heir, and there is no one better suited to the task of re-organizing and ordering Rand’s thoughts into a comprehensive tome.
This is a difficult book to read because it assumes some familiarity with philosophy and epistemology. It also helps if you’ve read Ayn Rand novels beforehand. There is a gradual build up throughout each section of the book. Leonard Peikoff does a masterful job as collating so much of Rand into a single volume. This is an important primer on Objectivism.
It offers a great and complete picture of the philosophy of objectivism. It is occasionally hard to follow, hence, the four stars, but it is undoubtedly one of the top 100 "must read" books of all time.
Disappointing. The Romantic Manifesto added greatly to my understanding and appreciation of Anthem, The Fountainhead, and Atlas Shrugged. I expected this book to be an equal bonus. But, it was tedious at best. The chapter on Government and the Epilogue were interesting.
Pretentious but studied. I don't know what to make of this one. I have a different perspective on the topic. I cannot fairly weigh this work.
Objectivisim in its whole is not presented. Rather, substantial excerpts from her various novels are taken and elaborated. An innocuously decent first time read for Ayn Rand fans.
Very detailed understanding of objectivism, and a supplementary guide to all her other books.
In summary, Ayn Rand believed that you should only base your decisions, goals and energies on reality--and then live 100% true to what is right.
(regardless of what is popular, widely believed or 'feels good') All human decisions should be based on the 'long term' support of life.
Any inconsistencies between feeling and knowledge means you need to recheck your premises and rethink things until they align.
A conscientious, independent life lived true to correct principles based on reason and reality will ultimately lead to happiness--man's ultimate purpose.
I believe that the knowledge of Deity is a proven fact, i.e. reality.
Rand above all has finesse -- despite all of the meticulous work and effort required to produce her writing, she makes it seem easy.
Reading OPAR, on the other hand, is nearly as much of a chore as it was for Peikoff to write it.
Ayn Rand loved what she did, and that much is eminently clear in her writing; Peikoff, on the other hand, admits to finding philosophy incredibly trying and difficult, and it's not hard to tell from OPAR.
This book is important, insightful, yes, but it suffers from not being the work of the woman who generated the insights in the first place.
This might make the philosophical spine of the work seem muddled to readers, especially those with limited exposure to philosophy.For instance, in Atlas Shrugged, Dagny Taggart is described as bribing workers during the construction of the John Galt Line.
Her goal, it is made clear, is to complete the job successfully, and what Rand means by "bribing" is "paying them exceptionally well to do the best job possible." However, it's entirely possible for a reader to confuse the meaning as a sanction for what is normally associated with bribery: paying someone to do something shady or to keep their mouth shut about seeing something shady.That sort of awful misunderstanding, I think, is why so many neo-conservatives praise Atlas Shrugged without seeming to realize it's fundamentally opposed to their stocks in trade: religious mysticism and political corruption.
Ayn Rand’s novels portray Objectivism by putting them into a storyline that helps paint a picture that is easy to understand.
However, once you understand the basics of Objectivism through the examples in her novels, you are ready to move on to Leonard Piekoff.
Piekoff does an excellent job of explaining what the exact “rules” of Objectivism are by putting it in an almost textbook-like format.
Keeping that in mind, I would like to make a recommendation:This book is meant solely for those who want to fully understand Objectivism.
My guess is that unless you have a burning desire to know this philosophy, you will be asleep by page 7.
However I am not really an Objectivism fan...not very comfortable with its laissez faire political approach.
More importantly I don't agree with the idea of being shackled whilst in pursuit of happiness or individual rights.
This is a great book, full of questions you should be asking yourself and others, going against the grain of most of your conditioning...post this treatise I'm not guaranteeing you will become an Objectivism fan, what I guarantee is that you will see things differently...coz the rose tinted glasses will be off...
An assertion can be true, false or arbitrary.
An arbitrary assertion is one for which there is neither evidence for nor evidence against.
My interpretation of this idea is that it is an extension of the correspondence model of truth.
An idea in my mind is true if it is similar to something in the real real world out there.
That is the correspondence model of truth.
The thing in the real world out there must have caused the idea in my mind.
The assertion was not false, either, but rather it was arbitrary.
I read this book on and off for over a year.
His chapters on metaphysics, the morality and epistemology of capitalism and his epilogue were the most helpful parts for me.
I read this in spurts so it would have my undivided attention.
I read about metaphysics and epistemology in late summer 2013.
I read about Ethics and Politics in early spring 2014.
In late fall 2014 I read about art and the duel between Plato and Aristotle.
After I finish Intro to Objectivist Epistemology and The Romantic Manifesto I will have read all of Rand's primary non-fiction treatises and begin Atlas Shrugged.
