https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/302702.Mirrorshades
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Ancient Rayguns: "Mirrorshades" by William Gibson, Bruce Sterling et al(Original Review, 1985)Isn't that just the thing?
With the digital world, social media and the online life, comes an entirely new kind of creeping, monolithic conformity.
When everywhere you go cookies are recording your choices, advertising companies can predict your needs and your boss is your friend on Facebook, you need to be careful about what you download on Kindle.
Writers and publishers too are constrained by this social coercion and so we end up with a homogenised world.
Writers are only allowed to be creative within strictly policed generic parameters.
Here the mediocre and the barely readable rub shoulders with pop genius. The lesser cyberpunks come across like caffeinated 1950s squares desperately trying to sound like the beatniks they've heard so much about. Want some holodrugs to go with your cyberslang, daddy-o!!?The greats have a singular ease of style and taste for the bizarre that gives you a whiff of the 80s, but the colors are still bright after twenty years.Flawed, but essential.
Overall score: 2/5 stars."Til Human Voices Wake Us" by Lewis Shiner was another interesting offering from the collection - not directly evocative of cyberpunk images, but themes are certainly dark - story of a man's relationship and transgression with a mermaid - doesn't quite go the way he planned.
Overall score: 3.5/5 stars."Stone Lives" by Paul Di Fillipo and "Red Star, Winter Orbit" by Bruce Sterling and William Gibson were both stories I enjoyed, but probably not as much as other in the collection.
Perhaps looking back at cyberpunk from 2014, it is impossible to fully grasp what the authors at the beginning of that movement were truly about.
We have Bruce Sterling's intro of this anthology to help us out, including other names for the movement at the time - Outlaw Technologists, Eighties Wave, Radical Hard SF, and others.
When I read this anthology I struggle to place each story within the parameters of what I would call cyberpunk.
To me, none of these stories fit, and there are only twelve in the anthology to begin with.
Between novels, I always come back to this, flipping through the pages until a word catches my eye.
Such a diversity of talent, mixed together quite well here.Rated Individually:• "The Gernsback Continuum" (William Gibson) ★★★★★• "Snake-Eyes" (Tom Maddox) ★★★★• "Rock On" (Pat Cadigan) ★★★★• "Tales of Houdini" (Rudy Rucker) ★★★★★• "400 Boys" (Marc Laidlaw) ★★★★★• "Solstice" (James Patrick Kelly) ★★★★• "Petra" (Greg Bear) ★★★★★• "Till Human Voices Wake Us" (Lewis Shiner) ★★★★• "Freezone" (John Shirley) ★★★• "Stone Lives" (Paul Di Filippo) ★★★★• "Red Star, Winter Orbit" (Bruce Sterling & William Gibson) ★★★★• "Mozart in Mirrorshades" (Bruce Sterling & Lewis Shiner) ★★★★
Una lectura largamente postergada. Yo le voy a dar 4 estrellas por hacer media, pero como veis he puntuado cada cuento por lo que si sois muy vagos y os fiáis de mí, podéis leer solo los mejores según mi opinión.Una pena que esté descatalogado en papel y haya que tirar de viejo con suerte.Mientras leía he ido actualizando y puntuando cada cuento por separado y lo he recopilado en mi blog: Reseña: Mirrorshades: Una antología ciberpunk.
‘Mirrorshades: Una antología cyberpunk’ (Mirrorshades: The Cyberpunk Anthology, 1986), es una recopilación de relatos a cargo de Bruce Sterling, que intenta ser una representación de este subgénero de la ciencia ficción (pequeña definición de cyberpunk: normalmente transcurre en un futuro cercano, distópico, dominado por megacorporaciones, donde se aúnan personajes marginales con alta tecnología, en una ambiente próximo al género negro, todo ello bajo una estética que recuerda a la película ‘Blade Runner’).De entre los relatos recogidos en la antología, me quedo únicamente con tres.
Brief short story collection from the early days of cyberpunk, with some authors that you'd consider it (Gibson, Cadigan, Rucker, Sterling) and some you wouldn't (Greg Bear.) The stories themselves are bad, as many don't even bother with computers or the internet at all, and come across as a weird "rock and roll" version of New Wave SF.
The focus on drugs seems naïve in a world where people deal with mood-altering drugs to medicate mental issues on a daily basis; no "drug artists," just HMOs and a lot of tawdriness.The whole "rock and roll" punk aesthetic feels dated now, as in Cadigan's piece.
This probably counts as essential reading for fans of cyberpunk, but only some of the stories qualify, genre-wise.
However, the other stories fit in in terms of era.
They are more interesting academically, as a glimpse into what else was going on in literary sci fi in the early 80's.Of special note is that the 2 Gibson stories printed here were also included in Burning Chrome, so if you, like me, initially picked this us as a Gibson completist, you will be a little disappointed.
There is something trippy about reading a 30-year-old sci fi story, set approximately now, about the Soviet Union...
Cyberpunk used to mean so much more than crazy future clothes, oppressive corporate regimes, and cybernetic enhancements, but these days the word mostly conjures up Gibsonian dystopias. It's interesting to read a broader range of stories from the time, selected by people who were part of 'the Movement', but it might be even more interesting to read Bruce Sterling talk about himself in the third person when he describes prominent figures of cyberpunk. Amusing!
-Cyberpunk en el mayor sentido posible del subgénero literario.-Género. Relatos.Lo que nos cuenta. Con nota preliminar de Andoni Alonso e Iñaki Arzoz, y con prólogo de Bruce Sterling, ambos pequeños ensayos de lo que significó (y significa) el movimiento Cyberpunk, recopilación de trabajos cortos que exploran distintas vertientes de esa corriente que trajo ideas frescas a la Ciencia ficción hace algo más de treinta años y que es mucho más extensa que implantes, virtualidad, delincuencia y corporaciones (y eso puede chocar a más de un lector, avisados quedan).¿Quiere saber más de este libros, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
The best story in here is  William Gibson's "The Gernsback Continuum", which anyone who cares already has in  Burning Chrome. The rest is largely trash.
Bastante irregular. Algunos relatos son malos y no entiendo que hacen en una compilación ciberpunk y otros bastante buenos, el que más destaca es el de "Zona libre" de Shirley, por su prosa y su innovación. Escribí una crítica mas completa en mi blog sobre este relato: https://www.nicholasavedon.com/zona-l...
I am not a big fan of short stories. That said, there were some decent entries (Solstice by James Patrick Kelly and Freezone by John Shirley among them). There were also some I didn't care for. One was co-authored by William Gibson who is actually my favorite cyber-punk author. In a few places the stories were getting dated. Nor surprising since they were all written over 30 years ago. If you are a big fan of 80's SF it might be worth reading.
Patchy. As this is the book that defines the cyberpunk "movement" in a way, it seems churlish to say that some of the stories are more fantasy than cyberpunk, but as the genre is today, that's the case.
4,25/5Para muchos el libro de referencia del movimiento, más incluso que Neuromante.
Tanto en el prólogo como en la selección de autores y relatos, Sterling sienta los pilares del ciberpunk.
En este relato puede comprobarse como, ni en los cimientos del movimiento hubo nunca especial interés por hacer crítica social, ni un mundo perfecto tiene por qué ser siempre deseable para cualquiera.
Una breve reflexión sobre las antologías:Por lo general nunca he tenido una buena predisposición hacia ellas, a no ser que fueran del mismo autor, ya que siempre me he quedado insatisfecho por lo breves de los relatos...
No es una obra de actualidad, está claro, pues se encuadra en los 80's/90's, que ya han quedado lejos, pero sí es una obra que remueve todos los ingredientes del cóctel que fue el cyberpunk y te ofrece la posibilidad de retomar el género y releer ideas que han sido de gran influencia en la ciencia ficción posterior.

Contains many of my favorite examples of cyberpunk fiction. From Mozart in Mirrorshades, to the WW1 flight combat sim done in 3D Virtual Reality, this anthology is a collection of many amazing writers and their stories. All of them have stuck with me for the last 15+ years and influenced many of my own writing, and movie decisions. A must read for any beginner to the sci-fi and specifically cyberpunk genre. Also of note - my iPad doesn't try to correct the word "cyberpunk". Kudos to Gibson and Sterling for that I'm sure.
Wonderful look into the old cyberpunk genre, some stories have aged pretty well, in particular I loved "Mozart in Mirrorshades" its a great political comment.I had to hear it twice to get all the details, but I loved the storytelling.
Una colección realmente irregular, más aún de lo que suele ser una recopilación de este tipo.
Tanto desde el punto de vista histórico como desde el literario, las introducciones de Sterling a cada relato son de lo mejor del libro.
Estando escrito en el estilo recargado del ciberpunk más puro, pero con cierto toque personal, consigue transmitir una idea interesante en pocas páginas manteniendo su originalidad.
Este relato pretende ser más profesional y complejo, y es más mainstream dentro de la ciencia ficción (o bien la cf actual ha asumido por completo estos planteamientos del ciberpunk y ya son mainstream).
It had a sense of parable to it which was strengthened by the twist ending (possibly a forseeable one, but I was too engrossed in each page to predict it).Other stories such as '400 Boys' by Marc Laidlaw and 'Rock On' by Pat Cadigan read to me as early 'textbook' examples of the cyberpunk aesthetic and didn't resonate with me beyond the evocatively colourful language and world-building.Bruce Sterling's brainchild born in 1986 was admittedly not quite the colossal undertaking of Harlan Ellison's in 1967, obviously due to length but more pertinently due to most of the material having already appeared (then-recently) in print.Nonetheless, he was able to forge a cultural landmark by gathering together the bastard offspring of post-modern literature and bleeding-edge sci-fi and put a label to a subgenre that maintains its appeal over three decades later.
Petra was fun for being somewhat like Mage the Ascension, exploring the concept of consensual reality and what happens when shaping the world is left in the hands of humanity rather than God. I've read Freezone before, in an anthology of sci-fi and fantasy rock stories, and I enjoyed it just as much this time; only this time I've finally ordered a copy of Eclipse so I can find out what happens next.
All in all, there are a few bad stories, as will happen with an anthology, but mostly it's good stuff, and makes me interested in reading more cyberpunk.
Слегка разочаровывающая антология, да.От книги с таким названием ожидаешь киберпанка, что логично.
А нетушки, не дождетесь.Вся беда, что антология, составленная Стерлингом, знакомит нас не с киберпанком, но знакомит с авторами - киберпанками, друзьями Стерлинга.
Да, киберпанка тут нет, ну да ладно.
И вот я склонен отнести весь этот набор рассказов к эдакой предыстории жанра, пусть будет так, в этом я себя уже убедил.Антология всё равно более-менее хороша, если не считать нескольких никакущих рассказов - "Пока людские голоса не разбудили нас" Шайнера (самый отвратительный и никчемный, можно даже сказать), "Рокенроллим" Кэдиган, "Истории Гудини" Рюкера, ну и "Красная звезда, зимняя орбита" самого Гибсона и Стерлинга.
there are some pretty neat ones in there, i admit, but then there's also the convoluted, the way-too-long-for-the-short-story-format, the "how many women can we objectify in under 2 pages", the gargoyles?i feel like either i just got more and more disillusioned by my newest wave of "i wanna read more classic scifi!!!" enthusiasm or the stories actually got progressively worse the farther you got into the book, like the author realised too late there weren't enough good stories to fill the book he promised his publisher and he pulled a really frantic all nighter scraping together Everything he could find.heres to hoping cyberpunk 2077 will bore me less~
Como una no entendida especialmente en cyberpunk, ha habido relatos que no me han gustado nada y otros que me han sorprendido gratamente.
Mi historia favorita ha sido "Stone vive" de Paul Di Filippo, por lo original del estilo narrativo, la inmersión sensorial que produce en todo momento y por la naturalidad con que se adentra en los sentimientos sin forzar actitudes violentas como en el resto de relatos.
Un detalle que me encantó fue la sutil referencia a la bisexualidad de una de las personajes, dejada caer con toda naturalidad y sin que suponga nada más allá de un guiño cariñoso con el protagonista.
What Sterling means by "cyberpunk" are not the contents of the stories but the authors themselves (or the Movement).
Perhaps because the book came out before many of the fun tropes that one associates with the genre, i.e. hackers, corporations, cybernetic enhancements, class struggle, actually became tropes?
Instead the book is packed with seemingly random science fiction stories by future cyberpunk veterans plus Greg Bear (!?).
Overall, I gave it three stars because some of the stories are definitely worth reading, almost all towards the end of the book.
And "Mozart in Mirrorshades" is a fun alternate history story.
This is reasonable solid anthology, with generally decent standard of stories.What makes it interesting is that it was supposedly the definitive collection that helped to define cyberpunk. Reading it 30-odd years later,this is rather hard to see. There are a variety of stories, post-apocalypse, time-travel, drug stories etc. It is hard thought, to see this as a cyberpunk collection, let lone a definitive one. There is in relatively little that in retrospect one would recognise as being cyberpunk or being distinct from the rest of SF of the period.
Mirrorshades: The Cyberpunk Anthology - Edited by Bruce Sterling (1986)The Gernsback Continuum (1981
This seminal collection of cyberpunk short fiction was probably more effective back in the 80s when it was published. About half the stories included are excellent, a few of that half shockingly accurate in the predictions they make and the ideas they explore. Overall the whole thing is worth the read - just be open minded and more than anything accept the more ridiculous (Mozart in Mirrorshades specifically) stories as what they are intended to be, fun.
