https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27276428-the-gene
But, I've now learned, "the vast proportion of genetic diversity (85 to 90 percent) occurs within so-called races (i.e., within Asians or Africans) and only a minor proportion (7 percent) between racial groups..."--I knew the story of Carrie Buck, legally sterilized after an Opinion by Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes stating "Three generations of imbeciles is enough." But Mukherjee lets that story hover over us as he takes us to a lecture he attended in 2013, a lecture given by a fifteen year-old girl named Erika, who suffered from a severe, progressive degenerative disease, causing muscle tremors that progressively worsened.
I"~Siddhartha MukherjeeThe 2011 Pulitzer Prize winner, Siddhartha Mukherjee, is back with another incredibly well-written book, The Gene: An Intimate History that unfolds the extensive and profound knowledge and research about human genome and its genetics that reflects beyond the definition of both basic and advanced science.
But with all this, the author ensures that his readers do not lose their focus from the fact that study of genes is not anymore just a progressive or evolutionary aspect in science and medicines, rather it is a study and observation about how an individual is insufficiently deciphering the technological advancement in the science of genetics as well as the study of oneself.Siddhartha Mukherjee sweepingly shares his own Bengali-family medical and genetic history through this book.
I listened to the BBC abridged audio book as I often do before ordering it.
I loved The Emperor of All Maladies: A Biography of Cancer but couldn't feel that deep interest with this one.Now it could be that the book is fantastic and it had a lousy editor at the BBC.
Oliver Sacks autobiography, On the Move: A Life is a 10 star book, but the abridged BBC one is terrible, mostly the wrong episodes chosen.
(But I might still order it in hardback because I think this is one of the books I might be wrong about)>
In this beautifully written, vivid history of genetics; Mukherjee takes us by the hand and walks us through the hall of fame of all the people who are the reason for modern biology as we study it today.
His picturesque descriptions make the book a joy to read.Starting with Mendel and ending with embryonic stem cell research and beyond; the fascinating story of genetic research is given in the book.
Students of medicine, biology and related fields as well as anyone with an interest in the history and future of science will enjoy and learn a lot from The Gene.
Cannot begin to tell you what I learned from this fascinating study of The Gene but I gained great insight from the thorough research of Siddhartha Mukherjee. I am destined for a second read/listen. The audio narration by Dennis Boutsikaris made this compelling, very well paced with a distinct and pleasant tonal quality. Highly recommended.
I'm not going to lie, there were some pages of this book where all my mind saw was 'science science science science' etc etc over and over again instead of the actual words which apparently make sense to people cleverer than me.
Detailed descriptions of research, the individuals and teams who undertook it, every step forward (and backwards), the social, moral, scientific, and political implications of new information and techniques- all these things and more Mukherjee has addressed in this biography of the gene.
As with so much of technological and scientific advancement, ideas about morality are inherently intertwined with the way it is actually used.
It even draws us in to the author's own deep and emotional familial history and his own drive to understand.I'll make no bones about it: I was moved.I've read more than a handful of books on genetics in the past, and while some were quite good and some were sometimes mesmerizingly boring, I think this one has got to be the most readable, grab you on the human level, and most in depth survey of the entire field that I've ever read.
Not half as good a narrative as The Emperor of All Maladies, but still a good account of the Gene's journey and where it is going.
It will hold your attention even if you have read multiple accounts of the progress of Genetics such as Watson's, because most histories of the Gene focus on the Genome project or on the early phase of discovery of genetics, Mukherjee instead focuses on the applications that are currently ongoing and how those fields have developed.
Darwin's incisive intellect would have quickly grasped its implications for the understanding of evolution.The following summary of the Nazi and Soviets genetic programs during WWII shows how things can go astray when genetics is made to fit political dogma.The Nazis believing in absolute genetic immutability—a Jew is a Jew—had resorted to eugenics to change the structure of their population.
The following is an interesting summary of the author's description of how yogurt engineers found a bacterium capable of defending itself from hostile viruses by a clever method that could also be borrowed by geneticists to target specific places on a gene and make repairs.
Mutants are necessary to maintain the essence of our selves."- Siddhartha Mukherjee, The GeneI've owned Mukherjee's other book, The Emperor of All Maladies: A Biography of Cancer, for years and have consistently found rational reasons to not read it.
Perhaps, there is a gene somewhere that always pushes me read an author's first, great novel late.
After reading 'The Gene' I'm now a HUGE Mukherjee fan, and have moved 'The Emperor of All Maladies' to my bedside table and will be jumping into that book soon (sometimes, it seems, we can act rationally just by moving cancer closer to us).
Siddhartha Mukherjee, Pulitzer's Prize winning book, "The Emperor of All Maladies"scared the hell out of me right from the 'get go'....when I read that "1 in 4 people will get cancer in your lifetime".
Mukherjee dives right in again, ( wasting no time), in "The Gene".
Questions that lingered in Mukherjee' mind at the start of his research was ...( looking at each his cousins and uncles), if the illnesses are genetic, why were some family members spared?
--- yet here we are today in 2016-- and Mukherjee is all about the future - medical advances.
What makes this very readable for the non-scientist is how the author relates the history of the gene, determining the human genome and the advancements in gene therapy with his own family story of mental illness.
Overall this was a very enjoyable read and while it won't be an easy read for anyone without a scientific background I would still heartily recommend it to anyone who is interested in learning about genes and heredity and who especially wants to inform themselves about controversial topics such as genetic screening, stem cell research and the tangible possibilities of future manipulation of our genome.
The dude who wrote Emperor of all Maladies is back with a prequel and it's good!It starts with some history - a little Darwin and a lot of Mendel, the monk who spent his whole life geeking out over pea plants, and who I remember as being the most boring part of a very boring 9th grade biology class.
He's good at making it interesting - and he reads a lot of books, so you never know when all of a sudden he's gonna cite Tarzan of the Apes.
Para quem já entende, a perspectiva histórica, relatos de quem foram ou como eram as pessoas por trás das descobertas que conhecemos e as discussões sobre ética são excelentes.Descobri muita coisa nova apesar de gostar e entender da área.
E o único ponto conceitual que realmente me pegou, quando ele fala sobre epigenética, foca muito mais em uma noção já bem deixada de lado, a da regulação através das histonas, e não discute modificações que realmente ocorrem mais como a metilação do DNA.
It is the most human of all things that we possess Its stewardship may be the ultimate test of knowledge and discernment for our species.Sura-na Bheda Pramaana Sunaavo;Bheda, Abheda, Pratham kara Jaano.Show me that you can divide the notes of a song;But first, show me that you can discernBetween what can be dividedAnd what cannot.— An anonymous musical composition inspired by a classical Sanskrit poemThis wondrous journey through the history of genetics and genomics left me surprisingly hopeful and somehow less fearful of the future despite the potential risks of genomic technologies and the enormous changes Mukherjee foresees on the horizon, where “what can be divided and what cannot” is yet unknown.
Mukherjee, a cancer physician and researcher, begins with the history of genetics, moves forward to our capabilities today and what lies ahead in the future.
Who isn’t curious to know what very possibly lies ahead in the future?
Both how history has shaped our current knowledge and what most probably lies ahead is explored.
Having read the book, I am by no means now an expert, but I feel I have a better comprehension and a solid base to stand on.The audiobook was very well narrated by Dennis Boutsikaris.
In 1959 Jacques Monad, Arthur Pardee and Francois Jacob published a paper showing how DNA operated through RNA to code proteins that in turn regulated DNA allowing each cell to carry out its own function.In 1972 Paul Berg created DNA chimera combining genes from viruses and bacteria.
In 1992 Craig Venter left NIH’s Human Genome Project to set up his own company, The Institute for Genomic Research (TIGR), dedicated to gene sequencing.
In 1998 Venter left TIGR to form a new gene sequencing company, Celera, derived from the word “accelerate”.
In July a disease carrying gene was successfully replaced in a human embryo.
What a fantastic read! 4.5*
Billed as a prequel to the brilliant Emperor of Maladies, this was just too confusing and frustrating a book for me.
My major difficulty with Mukherjee's approach is that the book is a history of genetics which never properly explains what a gene is.
It felt like showing off.One star for the sheer ambition of trying to write a book about the history of genetics; another star for the incredible detail in the book, and third star out of sentiment, because I loved "Emperor of Maladies" so much.
Probably best enjoyed by those with a better basic grasp of genetics than me.
But it was compulsively page turning and fascinating.So I was very excited to get a copy of The Gene.The Gene felt to me like a very readable textbook of genetics from the Greeks to (of course) Mendel to the present, with a look at the future.
It is surprisingly interesting-Mukherjee writes well and I enjoyed his character sketches of the various players in this history.The science of the book is connected to Mukherjee’s personal experience of dealing with mental illness in his family.
Mukherjee offers a comprehensive coverage of the development of gene theory and its implications for our future.I especially enjoyed all the character sketches of the many scientists involved in the study of genetics.
I am not writing this to discourage anyone from reading this, just to set the expectations if you decide to approach this book.
The author did an amazing job spicing up the book with stories and interesting topics (intelligence, mental health and much more).
He is discussing at length our ability to know what is in our genes, and to decide what will be in them more and more.
Would you decide to have no people with mental illness in the world?
Taking from people their basics rights without even the slightest remorse.I am planning on reading his Pulitzer Award winner sometime soon.
It includes the history of the field, anecdotes of its development, a well-paced technical explanation of the high level aspects, and quite a lot of discussion on the associated moral dilemmas that we are faced with as we understand how we can use this technology to change our own species.Unfortunately, the book does not delve into some of the aspects of modern genetics that I find most interesting, such as gene drive.
BOTWhttp://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b07hxmmnDescription: In 1859 Darwin published his famous book On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection.
During the years before and after its publication, Gregor Mendel, a young Silesian monk, had been busy breeding peas and carefully logging his results.
He was on the way towards a theory of heredity - to identifying the existence of genes.Siddhartha Mukherjee is a cancer physician and researcher, a stem cell biologist and cancer geneticist.
He is also author of The Emperor of All Maladies, a biography of cancer which won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for general non-fiction, and the Guardian first book award.
Fica só um cheirinho:"Every generation of humans will produce variants and mutants; it is an inextricable part of our biology.
In yet other cases, the match may be impossible to achieve: the severest forms of genetic illnesses, such as those caused by nonfunction of essential genes, are incompatible with all environments.
Mukherjee, like every author I have read except Moalem, took it as a given that Lamarck was the originator of such thought.
If epigenetic modification does not silence some genes and express others, the end product could never be a fully functioning organism.
Epigenetic modification is happening all of the time and cannot be separated from gene expression.
Sometimes epigenetic modification can turn off and on genes many times in a second.
A person might look like a male but their brain, lacking SRY gene regulation of the Y chromosome, might in a real biological sense identify as female.
Mukherjee provided an equally wonderful discussion about race, IQ, and genes.
There’s no denying this book’s impressive scope: it’s a comprehensive survey of the past 150 years of genetics research, but it also stretches back to antiquity to see the different ways people have imagined that heredity works.
But it is to propose and to give serious consideration to one of the most provocative ideas about our history and future: that the influence of genes on our lives and beings is richer, deeper, and more unnerving than we had imagined.
Without a keen interest in science and a determination to learn the last word about genetics, readers are unlikely to persist with such a tome.
I received a copy of The Gene from NetGalley for an honest review. Thank you to NetGalley, Random House UK, Vintage Publishing, and Siddhartha Mukherjee for the opportunity. This book was published in June 2016.I loved this book, which contains of small chapters that takes you through the history of gene, starting with the author’s family history of schizophrenia. The six main chapters are written in periods of time and explained in an informatively way that doesnt bore you and not without humor
This book was published in June 2016.I loved this book, which contains of small chapters that takes you through the history of gene, starting with the author’s family history of schizophrenia.
Part Four – (1970-2005) starting with more of the family history, about his father falling ill and making the book personal and near to the reader, the title of the book is called “An Intimate History”, and that is a big part of my curiosity and reason for keeping reading.
I hope not, for the sake of all non-fiction book lovers – why was this informative man not my science teacher?This e-book and encyclopedia for gene-dummies is now mine forever to read and study.
A mutation…is a statistical entity, not a pathological or moral one.” In other words, when we impose our personal, social, or political views on things like race, a person’s disability or disease, or anything caused by genetic variation, for that matter, it tells us more about our subjective humanity than it does about objective reality.This explains why he doesn’t shy away from the history of the misuse and deliberate misinterpretation of genetics for purposes of political ideology or social engineering.
Unfortunately, this book is for much of its length more or less a textbook on the history of genetics.
A nicely written one, with "characters" (e.g., Mendel, Darwin, less-well known names) and their stories woven in--though personally I didn't care about details like the grub at the restaurant in Hawaii where several researchers dined while birthing a breakthrough, or the neon signs along the strip; maybe Mukherjee should dip his oar into fiction or creative nonfiction.
Discussion of the latest technologies and their ethical hazards is likewise a bit workmanlike, and since this tech is constantly evolving and will soon be yesterday's news (if it's not already), voice and insight are everything.
The author took what is a complicated topic, the history of genes, and created an engaging and fascinating read.The title does a great job at telling you what the book's about.
I can honestly say you can read this with no background and not have a problem - at least in terms of the writing.Some of the more noteworthy aspects, or parts that stood out to me, dealt with eugenics.
However, I think more people need to know more about eugenics and America because it was a large part of our (American here) history.
Quickly, going back to the Nazis one thing I was not aware of before reading this book was the pre-Holocaust killings that started in 1935.
