https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18042.Laughing_Gas
After a strange incident in a dentist's office, Reggie swaps bodies with child star Joey Cooley.
Will Reggie be able to set things right before Joey wrecks his life by punching everyone he dislikes in the snoot?This is the first Wodehouse I've read in a couple years, recommended by none other than Gail Carriger at the 2016 Goodreads Summit.It starts out with the old Wodehouse formula, a gentleman of leisure infatuated with a beautiful woman.
Yes, yes it probably is.Laughing Gas has more outlandish situations than most Wodehouse novels and is also a satire of Hollywood culture, something that hasn't changed in the eighty years since this book was written.
Well, my first Wodehouse. It was funny! I didn't think about it on the way through, but his characters were strong enough and the humor pithy enough to slide right on past the preposterous plot. I hope all of my century-of-literature-catch-up is as pleasantly surprising as this.
So, having gone into my local second hand bookshop I bought a couple of books of short stories and this novel.
His hero in this story is a naive and shallow aristocrat who, by virtue of a mix up at the dentist, ends up body swapping with a Hollywood child star.
The premise of the book was quite clever and way before, obviously, all the body swap films of the 80's and 90's but I have to say that even if those films took the initial idea from Wodehouse they did far more with it.
p.g. wodehouse is the antidote for ingesting f. scott fitzgerald. this is his most hilarious work.
Really, really stupid, and really, really funny.
(1936, to be precise.) In that decade, he wrote the two funniest Bertie Wooster novels (RIGHT-HO, JEEVES and THE CODE OF THE WOOSTERS), and also UNCLE FRED IN THE SPRINGTIME.
But Wodehouse's genius came out in the novels (as opposed to the stories) narrated by Bertie Wooster.
Bertie Wooster trumps any other character in Wodehouse, because he complains.
By the three-quarter mark of any Bertie novel, he is in a total panic over his situation and, by the end, his almost supernatural butler, Jeeves, manipulates Bertie's environment in a beneficial way.
Jeeves always wins a concession from Bertie after the major story is over.
I can't say how much I enjoyed this book! I listened to it on cd in the car and it made me look forward to my driving time. Part of that is no doubt due to the very talented narration by Simon Prebble. But the book is so funny! Funny in a dry, droll, British way. It made me laugh out loud frequently. Amazed at Wodehouse's brilliance. I hope to be able to write like this some day! I have to give it 5 stars even though it didn't change my life exactly--but it was hilarious and so well done.
Well here’s a rare thing – a middling Wodehouse.This body swap comedy sees the Third Earl of Havershot switch places with adorable 30s child star Joey Cooley.
This being Wodehouse there are some fantastic lines and this book will - I admit - make you laugh out loud, but not even a writer of Pelham Grenville’s brilliance can surmount the contrivances and the whole thing feels terribly forced.
In addition the ending is perfunctory, of course they switch back but it could have happened at any point in the previous fifty pages, or indeed he could have tacked on fifty pages afterwards.If you have no other Wodehouse hanging about then this will do, but there are better Wodehouses out there.
Second star solely because of the nifty 1936 edition my mother bought for me from the Frugal Muse, packed into its original shipping box that travelled to Berwyn long long ago.
But less than one star for the appalling racism played for laughs consistently in the book, beginning to end.
And pick a minority and something offensive will appear...all the slapstick appears misplaced in time, though it is certainly '30s fashion, and frequent mentions of the effects of the Depression make this more fixed in time than most PGW.
But racism killed all my enjoyment and I struggled to pick it up each time.
This story cracks along at a good pace but I didn’t find it as funny as Jeeves and Wooster or the Blandings Castle series. As a result of a fanciful body-swap plot, our hero spends most of the book as a child and so most of Woodhouse’s usual romantic misunderstandings can only happen at second hand. It’s set in Hollywood and I found the characters lacking the eccentric charm of the author’s usual cast of English aristocracy. A few notable exceptions - I loved the kidnappers.
As is traditional in Wodehouse’s novels not only does his fail to entangle Eggy but soon he himself becomes engaged to be married to a particularly unsuitable match.
The strangeness of the premise is possibly limited by the novel being written in the first person which is generally unheard of in Wodehouse outside of the Jeeves and Wooster stories; the ‘Silly Ass’ voice underplays the improbability of the transfer.
Laughing Gas made me laugh,over and over,again and again.One of the funniest books by the master.
Standard Wodehouse caper. All good, but be warned that they are several racial slurs sprinkled throughout. Nothing mean spirited, but words that make the modern reader cringe.
This is pretty much a mashup of Bertie Wooster style narrative with the plot idea of the movie Freaky Friday. This causes me to wonder if the Freaky Friday people got the idea from Wodehouse.
Suddenly, Reggie finds himself embroiled in all the many sorrows that were Joey’s, but are now his—and having to deal with the fact that Joey, now equipped with Reggie’s big, beefy body, is out to poke in the snoot everybody who has so far been lording it over Joey.PG Wodehouse’s most popular works tend to be the ones centering round his best-known creations: Jeeves, Psmith, the Blandings Castle crowd.
Laughing Gas, like Piccadilly Jim (to name another standalone novel which does not feature any of Wodehouse’s more popular characters), is set largely in the US and features a mostly-American cast of characters.
And while brilliantly funny and happy go lucky story Laughing Gas shows not so pretty face of Hollywood - April June (love that name, btw)- the gold digging bitch extraordinaire, an alcoholic cousin Eggy and a miserable life of a child film star.
The main character Reggie (27) is a good egg and very likeable.
He is somehow naive/innocent and because of that not so good judge of character.
The child film star Joey (12) while still has a childish qualities is often more mature and experienced than Reggie.
And, I've to add, that Ann so far is my favourite heroine in the Wodehouse stories.
I'm not surprised Richard Dawkins likes all the "what, ho" and "jolly good" of Wodehouse with the way he speaks like a properly British twit in his own book.
Not that I don't agree with Dawkins' points, just the obnoxious way he makes them (I guess I should save all that for that book's review).Anyway, this book is just fair for Wodehouse.
One thing that bothered me about this book is that it has a lot of anachronistic racism regarding the multi-cultural servants working in the Hollywood mogul's home(who are ironically secretly all LA actors).
I read it a long time ago and liked it.
This time I listened on cd and loved it.
And that is saying something, since he wrote SO many books.
I suppose all the later stories and movies, copied Wodehouse?
I have ordered a physical copy so that I can put markers on all the funny bits.
The whole book is going to be covered with little markers.
And my whole family is probably going to be subjected to my reading them passages for the next month.
Due to this Laughing Gas had a slightly different tone to it – focussing on the views of both adults and children.
Falling for different people that you end up with, personality changes and living life in a way that goes against parental wishes all made an appearance in this book.The biggest thing to make me laugh was the personality change of April June and her involvement in the kidnapping and the need for additional publicity to what she already had.
Overall it was quite predictable and having read several in non-Jeeves books I am beginning to find the plots quite similar and I begin to lose interest after a while and my min begins to float elsewhere.
I'm a pretty huge fan of P.G. Wodehouse.
It's something my deceased grandmother and I have in common.
I was introduced to his works from the PBS television adaptation of his Jeeves & Wooster stories.
The tv show, set in the early 1900's England, starred Hugh Laurie (now star of Fox's "House") acting like a British fop, and I was mesmerized by the witty dialogue and clever turns of phrase.
So I started reading.
Once I finished the complete collection of Jeeves & Wooster my mom started sending me little paperbacks of Wodehouse's lesser-known works.
It is completely silly, and the plot makes no sense whatsoever; but, it's written so well, I have to love it.
The device of the child switching bodies with a man is silly, I didn't think it could work.
In this case, a typical Wodehouse bumbling English lord changes places with an obnoxious child actor from Hollywood.
Of course, they end up undermining or improving each others' situations in various ways before getting switched back.
I think the funniest part was that the little boy, who was just so excited to be big and to be able to eat whatever food he wanted, spent most of the time running around punching all the people that had always bothered him and eating candy.
In spite of the stupid plot device, this book was incredibly funny.
Two things:This is a hysterical novel. About a small brat kid who changes identities with an adult - and god knows what kind of trouble that causes!And, PG Wodehouse should be studied in every writing course -because this man writes day and night and inbetween to write such funny classic novels. He is simply a genius, and one can learn a lot from this man.
A "Freaky Friday" premise--long before "Freaky Friday" was written--with the usual, hilarious Wodehouse treatment. I think I would enjoy the opportunity to be in the body of a burly English peer and deliver "a poke in the snoot" to a few deserving people.
I actually finished this book a while back, and am just now reviewing it. I like P. G. Wodehouse but this was not one of my favorites. These books are funny but this one is not as humorous as others by this author. So three stars for this mildly entertaining book.
Funny! OK, predictable, yes, but hey I'll take it if it cracks me up!
Amusing, but not his best.
The story starts with Reggie and Joey sitting I the dentist office.
On the way he meets a famous movie star and his long-lost love, April June, but he is surprised to learn that she is the one his cousin Eggy plans to marry.
Reggie, in the dentist office, finds himself sitting next to Joey Cooley, a 10-year-old child film star and they are both under laughing gas anesthetic and somehow, they find that their identities are swapped, and each is in the others body.
Eventually Wodehouse finds a way out for Reggie and Joey.
The young man falls in love with the wrong girl but gets it right in the end - as usual - but the intervening period is a fantasy thriller!
Via Wikipedia I traced it back to '"Vice Versa: A Lesson to Fathers" a comic novel by Thomas Anstey Guthrie, writing under the pseudonym "F.
While the much lauded - and hounded - Joey Cooly finds the switch a vast improvement and sets about writing wrongs and in particular poking a considerable number of people in the snoot.
This not my favorite Wodehouse but an enjoyable read with more twists than usual in his usually considerably convoluted plots.
So were my troubles" (134)."I had had a rotten lunch, at which the spinach motif had been almost farcically stressed..." (134)."I raised my eyebrows.
*What an image."I gazed at her in the sort of agonized, hopeless way young Joey Cooley would have gazed at a sausage if there had been an insurmountable barrier between him and it" (241)."'Slice her where you like, she's still baloney.'"She raised a couple of eyebrows" (242)."'We were having mutual teeth out that day, and we fraternized in the Zizzbaum-Burwash waiting-room'" (243).
It tells the story of what happens when a rich, titled Earl is forced to exchange places with a precocious child star.
Reggie Havershot is sent on a mission as a newly appointed head of the family to rescue one of his cousins Egremont from the clutches of a 'girl from Hollywood' he's about to marry(much like Bertie Wooster is forced to many times in the Jeeves and Wooster series) .
What ensues is rapid hilarity as Reggie falls in love, meets an ex-fiancee, exchanges places with a Joey Cooley - a child star and is forced to undergo kisses from admiring fans among other things.
