https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/207037.Those_Barren_Leaves
Huxley is best known for Brave New World, and his later descent into drugs and quackery. That seems a pity. His satires from the 1920s stood out even in that pitiless decade for their icy precision and clarity, and Those Barren Leaves is the sharpest.
Extraordinarily clever. I laughed when I read this book, Huxley is a man of incredibly good satire. I believe the characters in this book invented as different facets of himself. And in his genius state, created them as mouthpieces for his own discussion on life. There is hardly a plot, and his characters are defined by singular niches, "the jaded socialite turned cynic, the beautiful writer, the shrewd devil may care, and the delusional overachieving social aspirer." The book is overwhelmingly simple, but absurdly complex and self aware.I love a story set in the thirties.
Aldous Huxley's Those Barren Leaves is one of the author's early novels that show he is destined for great things.
There are times in Those Barren Leaves where Huxley is pushing against the limits of what the genre could convey, and sending us into empyrean realms of literature and even, perhaps, religion.In many ways, the book resembles Crome Yellow: A group of English men and women are staying as guests at a country house -- this time in Italy.
Mrs Aldwinkle has a need to dominate a group of people, receive their admiration, perhaps even their love.
The book doesn't really pick up until the second part, but once it does, it's very hard to put it down.
Comparing this book to Crome Yellow, Huxley's first shows his growth in character development and description.
Here his characters are more complex.
In addition, Huxley masters scene-setting description with descriptions of "black silhouetted leaves" against a pale sky, "thin luminous shadows" of olive trees, and mountain slopes of "blue and purple rapidly darkening to a deep uniform indigo." Huxley proves that one can create a fantastic sense of setting without being verbose.
Crome Yellow still holds its place as my favourite of Huxley's early works,but Those Barren Leaves is a close second.
This book really reads like a practice run for Point, Counter Point.
I thought that the pacing dragged during the Chelifer chapters, but that could also be that I just hated that character.As in most other Huxley novels I've read, he doesn't give off an enlightened view of women.
It's always annoying to see a writer suggest that women are incapable of deep thought and, even worse, distract men from theirs.
Even his enormous imagination can't come up with a world where women don't spend all of their time obsessing over men.Despite all this, I still enjoyed it and I'm definitely going to keep reading Huxley.
Your swivel chair will turn into a trolley on the mountain railway, the office floor will gracefully slide away from beneath you and you will find yourself launched into the abyss.”The author is surely also present in Miss Thriplow, the commercially successful writer for whom life is merely a source of material for her novels; in the parasitic Mr Cardan – erudite, charming, cynical, and broke – who gets many of the best lines in the book; and in young but jaded Calamy who takes an increasing (if improbable) interest in the spiritual and mystical.There’s some rather awkward plotting and time wasted on a young couple who like fast cars (him) and lingerie (her), whom Huxley treats with some contempt, but the main thing is the writing – the dialogue and the wit, the speculations and digressions.
Those Barren leaves is a brilliant book with a layered but nevertheless easy to follow structure of stories within stories & interesting digressions.
The language in it is not quite as dense as his previous work Antic Hay (he must have learnt from his prior mistakes) & while the story itself is not overly rich, the trip the characters make to Rome makes up for it.
In the conclusion of the book you find (surprisingly) Huxley moving away from satirist to the philosophical tones which would come to dominate his later writings.
Again, a brilliant book.
I picked this book up on impulse without expectations.
Right from the start, Huxley's excellent tongue-in-cheek humor is hard at work mocking the cultural elite on their Italian villa retreat.
Despite the essentially unsympathetic portrayals of the characters, and the hilarity of the collapse of their various schemes, the introspection they develop as they suffer is meaningful.
On the whole, I found it worth reading but not as enjoyable as another Huxley novel from the same time period, Antic Hay (which had a strong plot and much more likable characters).
Refined, clever writing, but I felt it was a dated and mannered account of people it was hard to believe in, or indeed to care for.
The narrative of the story is less interesting than the brilliant moments of elegant, intelligent description or the delightfully malicious humorous scenes, such as Mr Cardan's quest for a supposed prize sculpture.
The novel often digresses into philosophical and linguistic discourse, and much of the dialogue is delivered, less to move on the plot, but more to make intellectual statements, as Huxley uses his self-regarding characters to give voice to a range of opinions.
I felt like reading high-quality fanfiction while reading this, and that was a compliment since reading fanfics is generally more fun than reading anything else. People, tons of interesting people and personalities and psychological observation, pretense and digression in a pretentious social environment, not one detail remained unsaid. Add tons of philosophical discussions in that context- perfect. The mysticism at the end was predictable, but welcomed. This was wonderful and I'm looking forward to taking all my time reading Huxley's similar novels.
How could the guy who wrote Brave New World also write a book this boring and pointless? It boggles the mind.
The hand - throughout the 1920's Aldous Huxley was, recalling the edict to either be interesting or be entertaining (else why should people stick around?), writing novels that were trying to be both.
But, isn't there a feeling that, for Huxley anyway, the Interesting - the Ideas in these novels - was always the first concern?Those Barren Leaves ends on a large one of these Ideas: Is it possible, through some form of contemplation techniques, through hard concentration on one thing and therefore an emptying of the mind of all distractions, is it possible to 'open the curtain' on an astonishing and wider 'reality' within which our own limited perceived reality dwells?
*** Possible Spoilers ***This book is not easy reading.
At the time Huxley was publishing every two to three years so it seems reasonable that he wrote in between publishing dates.
Most people could view the world in a reasonably optimistic manner.
In this book, Huxley deals exclusively with the upper class; and, in particular, the artistic class - its foibles and pretensions - and there are a LOT of pretensions.
They imagine themselves to be the highest of the intelligentsia and it is this that Huxley satirizes so effectively.
The characters are interesting mostly for their foibles.
So this is quite obviously a work of satire or as a practical joke written by Huxley, and it's a great read the whole way through, although I did grow tired of its length which spouted a single point, and the same one in many of his others' works, regarding the superficiality of the cultural elite. Would recommend reading some Woodsworth from which this is inspired.
Once again Mr. Huxley demonstrates a mastery in unmasking the absurdity and hypocrisy apparent in the human psyche. By decomposing a vast array of realistic and self-consisten characters, Huxley satirises not only the post-Victorian elite that were his contemporaries, but the very idea of human civilisation itself.
Que surpresa boa!!! Terceiro romance do Huxley é incrível, cheio de nuances, descrições completas e humanas e muita ironia por trás da burguesia...
"trees seen from the train"
Some genuinely great writing from Huxley, thoroughly enjoyable reading. His skewering of the characters’ pomposity and snobbery was delightful.
The novel iexamines each of the main actors' lives from their private points of view and via the author's third person perspective.
May depend upon how much you like to dive deep or pleasantly swim on the surface.Another sample of reading a book a second time, and what that can mean for us : Let me freely admit I’m a sucker for forgotten, sometimes out of print work by famous authors.
In this much less known novel, he examines from various perspectives the perhaps no less odious manners and personalities of his own times.
This is my first Huxley novel and I enjoyed it, particularly the descriptions of lovely Italy, where the story is set, and two of the characters, Lord Hovenden and Irene, make the story interesting, because they are likable and made me want to keep reading so I could find out what happens to them.
Anyway, Those Barren Leaves (the title is from William Wordsworth's poem 'The Tables Turned') is set in a grand home in Italy's countryside, where several guests have come at the invitation of the home's owner, Mrs. Aldwinkle (Mr. Aldwinkle is never mentioned; Mrs. Aldwinkle is SO annoying one can only presume he ran off many moons ago), and a lot of little dramas play out between the characters, which is what makes the whole novel.

'And how long do you propose to stay?''I haven't the faintest idea.''Till you've got to the bottom of the cosmos, eh?'A fine example of Huxley's early work and very much what you'd call a philosophical novel.
Character-driven satirical plot that is engaging despite the frequent lapses into theory and philosophizing.
It should be said that Those Barren Leaves is more akin to Eyeless in Gaza than Brave New World, and perhaps a good indicator for if a you'd suit the style is if you also enjoy the work of authors such as Iris Murdoch.
Recommended for those interested in Huxley's early work and early twentieth century satire.
Another of Huxley's early novels where he puts the boot into his friends.
Like Antic Hey and Chrome Yellow it's another perpetual house-party thrown by a ghastly woman who collects artists like butterflies.
You would think Lillian Aldwinkle, a smudge of a woman who you would think had to be a composite or pure invention, but was apparently a recognizable satire of Lady Ottoline Morrell.
It's a bit broken-backed novel.
There are false-starts, and it changes between satire and po-faced philosophy without much success.
It's pretty interesting to see the tension within Huxley made so obvious, but it's a pretty big failing in the book itself.
Those Barren Leaves by Aldous Huxley is as precise as a needle, but unfortunately, that’s it.
His ever-skeptical attitude is only good when the subject matter and characters are too, but in this novel no issue, no insight, no argument, no character has stood out for any pleasantries - quite a disappointment in the face of Crome Yellow.
The only good part was when Chelifer was recounting his affair with Barbara Waters, but that didn’t last a long time, and the rest of the book did.
Huxley appears to be a sophisticated rambler who says dumb things in a smart way.

This book was set in Italy at takes place mostly in Mrs. Aldwinkle's mansion. She has several visitors who spent most of their time talking about life and their philosophies. They talked a lot about life and death, love, and money. I wouldn't really recommend this book to very many people because it was very difficult to read. It jumped around a lot between different people's point of views and beliefs. The entire novel didn't really have a beginning middle and end, but was more just a lot of beliefs.
I have read Huxley's 3 earliest novels one after the other and still have appetite for more. Sharing the most extraordinary breadth of knowledge in a sparkling, effortless way I don't think these gems from the 1920's have aged. Possibly not the punchiest of plots or the most memorable distinct characters but still a persuasive account of the rootless cultural elite flailing about for a purpose in the aftermath of the first world war. Consistently enjoyable and very spirited, but with a continuing melancholy undertow.
The characters are supposed to be cariactures. However I found nothing satirical about the narcisistic, pretentious and pompous bunch of idiots. After a terrible incident, one of the characters fails to inform the victims family and then sits there meditating on the nature of the incident rather than feeling any remorse. Uttterly awful. Avoid.
The Hux dishes out a smorgasbord of wisdom in this one. More of a philosophical satire than the dystopian future of 'Brave New World' which seems to be what most people were expecting based off half the reviews on this site. Kind of reminded me of 'Great Gatsby' in a way.
Relatively entertaining combination of metaphysical probing and mocking the pretentious. This the type of novel which would be horrendous were it attempted by an author as hamfisted as, say, Ayn Rand, so Huxley did a pretty good job.
