https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90951.Ship_of_the_Line
Here Captain Hornblower is in command of his first *ship of the line.*Note: A ship of the line was a war ship of at least 2 decks of guns.
**Note: A "broadside" means all guns on one side of the ship fired into a target.Anyway we get to watch HH grow from an insecure young man to an insecure older man.
He is constantly aware of keeping up the appearance of a proper Captain in spite of his internal doubts.You will at times not like HH himself, but in the end I like these books.
As a captain of a ship of the line, 74 guns, Hornblower has plenty of opportunities to strut his stuff.
Lots of action.While the manning of ships has been mentioned before, a special point is made of it this time.
The gov't didn't give Hornblower enough men any more than they provided uniforms or many other things.
Hornblower transferred the entire crew of the Lydia, his old frigate that had spent a couple of years at sea, directly to his new ship & a few convicts.
Forester's writing is quite terse & I wish he had spent a bit more time on some of the after-action reports.
(Yes, I am focusing on the important parts of the book, dammit.) One day I shall make a graph with 'Chronological Progression Through Hornblower Series' on the X-axis and 'Urge to Give Hornblower a Slap and a Damn Good Talking To About Personal Relationships' on the Y-axis.
I'm no great fan of social interaction, but that's taking it a bit far, surely?That said, when resisting the urge to give Hornblower a damn good talking to, I did enjoy the book.
Probably because it's one long Crowning Moment of Awesome for the Sutherland and Hornblower's captaincy, and dammit, Forester, you can't leave it there.
It’s an interesting read, and the naval stuff is fascinating, but this is terribly bleak.It begins with Hornblower desperate to get away from the wife he dislikes, grumpy because Lady Barbara got married, and depressed because he can’t legally kidnap enough men to fully man the miserable ship he now commands.
I understand why he married someone he doesn’t love or respect, and I recognize that he does his best to keep her from finding out his feelings, but it’s very unpleasant to experience his shame and dislike.
I can still remember the first line from the novel, even though probably 22 years have passed since I first became acquainted with the novel.
My father used to read these Hornblower stories to me as a child and in looking back, I feel an urge to revisit those heroic tales of bravery from a far distant time.
This was one of the first works he read when he was growing up (along with the works of Jack London) so it has probably played a part in forming his world view.
Forester has done a remarkable job at sketching this latest evolution of Hornblower in continuity with his earlier years as a midshipman and lieutenant while presenting the unique challenges and concerns that continue to shape him as a sailor and a man--relative poverty, lack of seniority, hopes for advancement, an implacable and numerous enemy, doubts about his own capacities, and the secret fears of dismemberment and death which he must repress in order to command the respect of the men he leads.
Initial fyi: my main purpose in reviewing these books is not with adults in mind, but for the parents or adult friends of reading children.While this is full of adventure and amazing action, I am finding that so far I like the books in the series that were written later, rather than earlier.
I will reserve judgment on the others until I'm done, but so far I think this is an excellent set for older children, with either parental supervision on the ones that dwell more on the "relationship" factor OR skipping those books altogether until an older age.
Already 17 years going, the French still have control of the coast of Spain.
Understandably, Horatio is happy to set sail once again and heads to the Spanish coast where his newly organized crew manages five successful raids before biting off more than they can chew as they meet up with four French ships.
The end of the book finds Horatio struggling with the option of sinking or surrender.
It's amazing to learn what these sailors....and captains!....had to go through to maintain a ship and a crew....the personal expenses involved, the struggle to build a complete crew, the miseries of life on board ship.

A typical rollicking read in the Hornblower series.In charge of his own ship, Hornblower needs to prove himself and do something with a grossly understaffed boat.It’s odd that the author, to show how “modern” Hornblower in effect is, has him resorting to whippings only with reluctance, having no faith, but keeping up appearances for the good of discipline, and having a daily bath. He then makes two casual racist references in the course of the story which sort of jump out and hit you in the face. Not so modern after all, Mr. Forester
Hornblower is so hilarious as a character. He is so stoic and sharp on the outside, yet terribly self-conscious on the inside. He literally thinks his next steps out in his head to appear more badass than he actually feels. Adorkable ain't the word!
I enjoyed this one a lot more than I thought I would and I'll read more from this series.
Horatio captures supply ships, storms coastal batteries and manfully tips French cannons off balustrades – this, THIS, is what happens when you don’t get to first base with Lady Barbara.
Throughout all Hornblower shows himself to not only be a whizz at seamanship (and the requisite mathematics) but an ace strategist too, getting his men to synchronise watches when going ashore and work to a strict schedule in the storming of the coastal battery.
“A Ship Of The Line” is, above all, a perfect example of a writer putting obstacles in front of their hero and allowing us to watch him work his way out from under them.
HH gets command of the HMS Sutherland and wreaks havoc upon the French along the Spanish Coast.
He captures several ships but must attack a squadron of four French frigates alone.
He's outgunned with help on the horizon in the shape of the a small ship the Cassandra and two ships of the line Bolton's Caligula and the Admirals flagship Pluto.
But they won't get there in time to help.
Ordered to engage the enemy, he disables two of the ships but has his main and mizzen mast blown off by the third.
HH must surrender his ship and give up his sword.
This should probably be a 4 star rating, but the ending felt like the last chapter cut off several pages too short.
Extremely jarring, and took away from what was an enjoyable read.
Horatio is in full form here as the Captain of his own ship and everything a fan likes (and hates) about the character is in effect.
Forester portrays his hero fully, perhaps a little too much on the warts of his personality.
Still a good read and recommended for anyone who enjoys the author, seafaring tales, or historical fiction like this and the Sharpe novels.
Read it!
I think this is the first Hornblower book I've read. His musings and small thoughts made the battles seem more real, although I must confess, I tune out battles in books and therefore a rather large chunk of this was lost to me.
252 - 2017
This review is for the complete 11-book series of THE HORNBLOWER SAGA by C.S. Forester, which I just finished reading last night.[Note: Individual books have individual star ratings (mostly 5-star, a few 4-star), but the descriptive review will be the same for each, and encompass the entire series, as follows.]Actually, I just finished reading the complete series for the second time, the first being as a teenager some 30 years ago.It's remarkable to me that I have only just this moment realized that my own timeline regarding the two readings corresponds almost exactly to the age progression experienced by the main character in the course of these 11 novels.It's a 30-year journey unlike any other I have ever taken in books - full and deep and satisfying.This is the epic saga of fictional British naval hero HORATIO HORNBLOWER, who goes from a 17-year-old midshipman to a 46-year-old admiral during the "golden age of sail" which encompasses the Napoleonic Wars of the early 19th century.I'll list the 11 books in chronological order (not the order they were written), which is the best way, I believe, to read them:- MR.
I was prepared for the book not to appeal, or not to match up to the other Napoleonic navy novels I've read in the meantime.I was more impressed than ever, and it has become clear why Forester set the standard that every historical naval writer has had to live up to since.
Hornblower is not the all-perfect action hero of writers like Farnol Jeffery 1878-1952 and Dudley Pope; he has distinct flaws which are made clear to the reader throughout the novel.
Okay, so the reality that such a humane and considerate naval captain could even exist in those days of flogging and pressgangs is probably pretty remote and maybe the whole business has been heavily sanitised for our twenty-first century sensibilities, but I feel this is first a stirring heroic adventure story of the high seas and only second an accurate portrayal of nineteenth century naval life at sea.A little knowledge of the nautical terms from the days of square rig sailing might have helped and I will probably put in a bit of research in this regard before going onto more of the Hornblower books.
Horatio's vanity, self-doubt and introspection--almost morbid introspection--are annoying at times, but it really does save the book from being a fairly generic action adventure on the high seas.
With Hornblower such an odd and complex character, the action is augmented by his personality in a way that a more traditional active character might not have done.
The book gives such a vivid picture of life and combat on the high seas, it was very gripping.
It was fun and interesting and apparently this is Hornblower at his most annoying, so I'm looking forward to reading some of the others!
This is a rip-roaring naval adventure from start to finish, no mistake.
But I also find it one of the most problematic in the Hornblower series.
But the big concern is that Hornblower is perhaps at his most unlikable in this book.
His deeply flawed character has always been one of his most intriguing aspects.
He doesn't feel as developed as he does in the earlier books, no doubt because this one was written second.
Forester seems to have gotten to know his character better as he went, which lends an interesting, but still unfortunate, sense of unevenness to this otherwise enjoyable book.
Love the Hornblower series, started reading them in the same order as the BBC/ITV series which I had really enjoyed.
Although this book tells the story of Capt.
Hornblower as a middle aged man, it was written well before the books about Horatio as a young lieutenant and midshipman.
Ironically, one gets the impression that as Forester grew older he passed on the wisdom and humility he acquired to the younger Hornblower.
Although, I liked this book, the character of its central protagonist is more fully developed in later books where Hornblower becomes accustomed to life at sea and challenges of leadership.
The book is still well written, entertaining, and informative, but wow is Hornblower much more of a bastard than I remember from my first reading 20 years ago. Dismissive contempt for his most loyal lieutenant combined with constant pining for a married woman and scorn for his loving wife make him thoroughly unlikable.
What a delightful book! I am greatly enjoying this series so far. In this one, Horatio Hornblower and his ship (it's a ship of the line, hence the title) must blockade and otherwise wreak havoc along the Spanish coast, which is partially under Napoleon's control. Oh, and there's a massive cliffhanger at the end, so make sure you have the next one handy or you'll be in suspense...
Another great Hornblower book. As Andy would say. Dude could write.
I liked and hated the ending. Ends with the same tone of Empire Strikes Back.
Update: Looks like my numbering was way off on the series chronological order!
The book took on a darker tone to me, and I was a bit saddened by Horatio’s attitude toward his dumpy wife, Maria, in her plain clothes compared to Lady Barbara.
The other thing that left me a bit down on this book’s tone was the bloody depictions of the land fighting that took place.
I am certainly compelled to read the next book to see what happens to the Captain and his crew, but that ending really left me wanting some closure!
Which makes sense, given that Forester wrote the 11 novels of the series starting at the middle (Beat to Quarters) and this was the second book written.
This is the novel that sets up Hornblower's later career as a national hero, and lover and husband to Barbara.
From Forester's perspective, this is the book that allows him to close the book on Hornblower's first marriage and for the first time allow him some prize money.
After this novel, Hornblower is always the protagonist and the strategic genius out from under the thumb of lesser lights.
I originally read this entire series when I was 13 and I've decided to re-read them in their entirety.
I'm actually reading the exact book that I read 43 years ago!
I must of keep them that long for a good reason and that reason is that they are very good adventure books even though, in retrospect, quite racist against the French and Spanish.
The racism I'm sure is reflective of the era that the books portray.I actually visited a good friend that lives near Rosas, Catalonia and saw the Bay of Rosas where the epic sea battle portrayed in the book took place.
