https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/973196.Dark_Forces
McCauley uses pretty much all the talent from the 1980 horror scene to deliver a rousing, frightening anthology that rarely disappoints.First off, the not-so-good efforts.
THE ENEMY by Isaac Bashevis Singer is an old-fashioned psychological thriller that reminded me of Guy de Maupassant and Edward Bryant's DARK ANGEL is a sickening little witchcraft story.
MARK INGESTRE: THE CUSTOMER'S TALE is an erotic retelling of the Sweeney Todd legend by ghost story master Robert Aickman.
THE PECULIAR DEMESNE, by Russell Kirk, is a good old-fashioned campfire ghost story, with the author's own unique spin, while A TOUCH OF PETULANCE marks Ray Bradbury at his most blackly comic.
Published in the 80s, Dark Forces is occasionally referred to as the "Dangerous Visions" of the horror genre.
While that may be stretching it, this is one of the definitive anthologies in horror.
There are 23 contributors from Stephen King to Theodore Sturgeon to an illustrated story by Edward Gorey to Isaac Bashevis Singer.
Some of the standouts include "The Late Shift" by Denneis Etchison, "Where the Summer Ends" by Karl Edward Wagner, "The Detective of Dreams' by Gene Wolfe, and "The Peculiar Demense" by Russell Kirk.
This book also includes the first appearance of Stephen King's "The Mist" and T.E.D. Klein's "Children of the Kingdom", both excellent novellas.
And in addition to the King story, I find myself read a whole bunch of other excellent late 1970s horror ...Now, about 30 years after the last time I read it, I picked up my copy of Dark Forces on a whim, and was very, very happy with what I found waiting for me.The King story is "The Mist", and it remains possibly my favorite of his to this day -- kind of in the vein of 1950s monster movies, but with a whole lot more blood & dismemberment (on-screen, rather than implied) and a bit of sex (ditto).
From time to time my hubby and I read a story together.
Last night I was in the mood for a horror story and Graham is sharing STEPHEN KING's  The Mist with me.
I have to say that so far I'm loving it...The Mist was everything a horror story should be - I LOVED it!
Here's snippet from Graham's review of The Mist the last story in the anthology.
...The best story in the volume is saved until last - Stephen King's THE MIST.
Yes, Stephen King's "The Mist" drew me in but every story kept me longer. From Dennis Etchison's "The Late Shift" (the first time I'd read his work) to "Children Of The Kingdom" by T.E.D. Klein - and touching on everyone from Bloch to Campbell to Matheson in between - this is simply a terrific collection.
This anthology offers some truly frightening tales from masters of the genre like Stephen King and Robert Bloch to some unexpected contributors such as Isaac Bashevis Singer and Theodore Sturgeon. One of my favorite stories is Children of the Kingdom by T.E.D. Klein. It offers up a view of NYC and the 1977 blackout that provides chills.
'80s horror. Unbeatable. Really - maybe it's the teeth cutting or something, but many of these stories are literary, well paced, and complex. I peruse horror and slip-stream anthologies on a regular basis, and I have to say that this collection is one of the best I've ever had the pleasure of reading. An equivalent: McSweeney's Enchanted Chamber of Astonishing Stories.
Simply one of the best overall anthologies of horror fiction out there. Contains great stories by Bradbury, Karl Wagner, Etchison, and others, and the novella "The Mist" by King, which is one of the best things he ever wrote.
There were a couple stories in this book that I didn't care for but I enjoyed most of them. Stephen King's The Mist was my favorite and actually one of my favorites of anything he's written so far. Recommended.
Now, having read it, I see that I should have made it a priority.Dark Forces is not only a truly entertaining book from front to back, but serves as a valuable time capsule for its time, having been published in the very early 80s it manages to show how some of the then up-and-comers fared alongside some true legends in the horror genre.Right off the bat, the book gave me the chance to revisit Stephen King's The Mist, which is the very last story and the one I immediately jumped to.
Published in 1980, before the horror genre's big boom (and subsequent glut), Dark Forces offers a wide range of authors and styles that feel surprisingly cohesive (guided by the authoritative hand of editor Kirby McCauley).
Some of the stories have a more modern (and slightly '80s) feel to them, while others harken back to an early-20th-century style of horror known as the weird tale.
A few feel like they've come right from the desk of iconic weird-tale publishing company Arkham House itself.
I read this book in the heat of the summer, waiting for the bus. I had checked it out from the public library. Some of the stories stayed with me for so long that I eventually had to go out and find a copy of it. I love the horror collections from the '80s -- not splatter punk, and still very much influenced by the original Rod Serling Twilight Zone series.
4/5Dark Angel • (1980) • shortstory by Edward BryantAnother story set off by a reunion - this time a witch running into an ex-boyfriend who abandoned her after knocking her up many years ago (to make sure we understand just how evil he is, it also turns out he later murdered his wife).
3/5Where the Summer Ends • (1980) • novelette by Karl Edward WagnerStandard monster story: intimations of a threat slowly become more and more pronounced, things end poorly for the protagonist, but it’s well-done, and using the rampant kudzu infestation of the South as the cover for more nefarious happenings was a stroke of genius.
A little intriguing and the twist at the end was worth the read; I wasn't far, but I hadn't guessed exactly and that is probably why I liked this short-story so much.Next on my list of favorites is Children of the Kingdom by T.E.D. Klein about what goes on in New York's underground.
I read it so many years ago that I was a little confused with the movie which I saw more recently.
I used to be a fan of the author, but I haven't read him in years and this novella reminded me about why I used to love him...
Dark Forces هذه إحدى أشهر المجموعات القصصية في أدب الرعب والقوى الخارقة، صدرت المجموعة في مطلع الثمانينات وضمت 23 قصة كتبها بعض أشهر كتاب أدب الرعب في تلك السنوات، يعترف محرر هذه المجموعة كيربي مكاولي بأنه قرر أن تكون هذه المجموعة هي المقابل في فن الرعب لمجوعة الخيال العلمي الشهيرة (Dangerous Visions) والتي صدرت منتصف الستينات.
Recopilación de relatos que trabajan distintas categorías de horror, irregulares en alcance y con pocas gemas, por lo que podríamos decir que ofrece un grado de satisfacción general por debajo del que ofreció “El gran libro del terror” (aunque en su defensa hay que decir que fueron las ediciones en español las que los relacionaron de cierta manera cuando en realidad, en las ediciones originales, nada tenían que ver ambos libros y este volumen, concretamente, se publicó siete años antes) seleccionados por Kirby McCauley, todos escritos para esta antología (aunque alguno fue publicado después en otros libros) y que tocan temas tan diferentes como ancestros increíbles, criaturas entre la maleza, la venganza de una bruja contemporánea, una raza extraña que vive en el subsuelo de Nueva York, un tipo muy especial de trabajador, un camarero muy molesto, inundaciones, una niebla que esconde la muerte y paradojas temporales domesticas, entre otros temas.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
Recopilación de relatos que trabajan distintas categorías de horror, irregulares en alcance y con pocas gemas, por lo que podríamos decir que ofrece un grado de satisfacción general por debajo del que ofreció “El gran libro del terror” (aunque en su defensa hay que decir que fueron las ediciones en español las que los relacionaron de cierta manera cuando en realidad, en las ediciones originales, nada tenían que ver ambos libros y este volumen, concretamente, se publicó siete años antes) seleccionados por Kirby McCauley, todos escritos para esta antología (aunque alguno fue publicado después en otros libros) y que tocan temas tan diferentes como ancestros increíbles, criaturas entre la maleza, la venganza de una bruja contemporánea, una raza extraña que vive en el subsuelo de Nueva York, un tipo muy especial de trabajador, un camarero muy molesto, inundaciones, una niebla que esconde la muerte y paradojas temporales domesticas, entre otros temas.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
This was a nice read in 80's horror.
Most of the stories are 2.5-3 star types, but "The Mist" and "Traps" really stood out as 5 star plus stories.
It shows once again just how good Mr. King is a writing quality horror back in the day, as "The Mist" might be one of his best stories period.
This is a perfect collection to read to fill short windows of reading time, as the stories are compact and satisfying.
Overall, I give this a 4 star rating on the pair of exceptional stories above which would have made the book worthwhile even if all the others were terrible...
An excellent, diverse cross-section of horror and dark fantasy.
The definitive horror anthology from the 80's, and let's face it, horror has been on the decline since then, so let's just say it's a definitive horror anthology.
One of the single greatest horror collections ever released. Classic must read stuff right here.
An excellent horror anthology. This is one of my favorite collections. I've probably read it at least five times over the years.
What I remember most about this book is King's "The Mist". It was when I was in college that I read this and thought it was good enough to be a movie and they made it into one this year!
So I was quite pleased to find this 1980 collection of horror stories by some well-known authors now available on ebook and eagerly purchased a copy for the opportunity to read King's original version of this masterpiece.Overall, The Mist is the best story in the book.
All stories included are copyrighted 1980, written on the editor's request especially for inclusion in this collection.Since I read this book for the purpose of reading King's Mist, I am starting with that review even though it actually is placed as the last book in the volume.23.
The elephant in the room is, of course, "The Mist," a Stephen King story from his prime that just had me scratching my head wondering what people see in him and whether or not I would like any of the former work of his I had read and enjoyed.
I let it drag the rating down from 4- to 3-stars, so if you're a fan, this might be a 5-star book for you, though you've probably read this somewhere else.Overall, it's a good variety of stories, as noted: Solid, not spectacular.
On average, they skewed more towards the quiet, and occasionally had a nebulous connection to the genre (and I have a pretty liberal Big Tent view of horror).“Where the Summer Ends” is a delightful little monster story, with a number of excellent layers just underneath the kudzu creepers.
I should have expected it--having read “The Professor’s Teddy Bear”--but it was a pleasant shock.
“Dark Angel” is a nasty little revenge story from the era of Roe vs Wade.“The Night Before Christmas” shows off more of Robert Bloch’s later year mystery/thriller chops, rather than his earlier horror short fiction roots.
And I feel that’s partially true of these (though, there are some real gems in here).I only read about 2/3rds of these and, some of those, I skipped to the end or stopped halfway through because I was bored.
But, like I said, there were gems:Richard Matheson and son show everyone how it’s properly done, but then, you can always sort of count on Matheson short stories.Ray Bradbury is always worth reading.Traps by Gahan Wilson was fun, even though I’d never heard of him.And The Night Before Christmas, I’m embarrassed to say, was my first experience with Robert Bloch.
That was a rollercoaster and a half with good stories, bad stories and horror stories that take horror to another level.My favourites were Dark Angel (the ending is fabulous), Mark Ingestre: The customer's tale (interesting take on a well told tale), The Brood (creeped the hell out of me), Where the Stones Grow (interesting and weird); The night before Christmas (classical tale with a grisly and gothic feel), The stupid Joke (so different; illustrated but very poignant), Where there's a will (another one that scared me and had me holding my breath throughout.
I loved the ending to this it was expected but still good to read) and The mist (not so much a short story and I know king can do them but this is not one and I am glad it isn't.
Meh. An OK collection of shorts at best.
King's "The Mist" by far the stand-out in this collection.
Overall rating of 2/5.
My rating for each entry:1.
The Late Shift - 2/52.
The Enemy - 1/53.
Dark Angel - 3.5/54.
The Crest of Thirty-six - 1/55.
Mark Ingestre: The Customer's Tale - 2/56.
Where the Summer Ends - 3.5/57.
The Bingo Master - 3/58.
Children of the Kingdom - 2.5/59.
The Detective of Dreams - 1/510.
Vengeance Is.
The Brood - 3/512.
The Whistling Well - 3/513.
The Mist - 5/5 (Awesome - what a true horror short story encompasses)
I loved this collection.I don't want to give out any spoilers, but I was truly glad to read The Mist. For those who have seen the movie, you'll know why I prefer, at least the ending of The Mist , in written form. I would highly recommend this collection. I liked all of the stories included.
