https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/509541.The_Rider
This slim volume has been on my to-read pile for a long time and I am so glad I finally got to it.
I passed a highly enjoyable afternoon reading it from cover to cover.
It's an old-fashioned adventure story of two Ruritanian-type kingdoms and the dread highwayman that terrorises the border between them.
It's also a romance and a comedy of errors as mistaken identities, concealed identities and swapped identities clash and collide in every possible permutation to keep the plot whizzing along.
As ever, ERB's style is vivid and cinematic, and in terms of plotting he is nigh on Shakespearean in this tangled web.
A Burroughs book all the way! Lots of adventure, fun, and coincidence so unbelievable they could almost be true. It's generally not hard to see where an E.R.B. story is going, but that does nothing to dampen the thrill of getting there.
This was a fun book to read.
ERB contrives a great tale with some mistaken identities and switcheroos, but the coincidences strain the imagination.
The story moves along rapidly and has a variety of twists and turns to keep the reader's attention.
There is little philosophizing and commentary on life.
It is just a made up story to entertain.
The story was, however, written in 1915, so that may have been a prevailing attitude then.
No matter, it was a chuckle to read and certainly put forth the ideals of valorous conduct in the face of desperation.
Boys should like this book.

This is a short book, it moves at a fairly brisk pace, and overall, it is entertaining. I love the ending, and I had fun reading it, though it is definitely the product of another age, and modern readers might find everything a little too trite for their taste. This is a product of romance in the original sense of the word. I have read that The Mad King by Burroughs is similar in theme, but is much better in execution and I will be reading that soon.
This is a very good and quick read. I enjoyed it very much, and found it so interesting I didn't go to bed, but continued reading from start until I finished it. Kind of a classic story where the prince is bored, takes the place of an outlaw called the Rider, and becomes mixed up, messes up, and gets arrested, and convicted and sentenced to die. Last minute reprieve and finding true love. Great book, recommend it to all to read if they haven't yet.
For those that have read The Mad King, this is basically a novelette with many similar ideas. For those that haven't, please please please read The Mad King first (I give it 5 stars!). A funny book, but pretty short and not fleshed out (originally written for serial publication in a magazine), this makes a great beach read or airplane book. I loved it - but I'm used to better from Burroughs. So, graded a B.
I read this over the summer. It wasn't great in my opinion. A lot of what happened was absolutely ridiculous and I thought to myself "why would that happen", or I saw it coming. The characters, in my opinion, were mostly stupid and unobservant. I know it's fiction, but I want to be tricked into thinking it could happen or be able to think if it happened, it would happen like that. I almost didn't finish reading this book because it was getting painful for me.
This is another one-off ERB novel, this one about a highwayman who gets embroiled in an adventure with the local prince via a mutually agreed swap of identity. It's a good story, although not the page-turner that The Mad King was, and without the context and history of Tarzan, so it's got this weird place in my mind as that one random ERB book I read. But it's good, I'd recommend it.
Great adventure story from this pulp era master. Recommedned
Not quite a fantasy. But definitely a romance in the earlier sense of that word. Fast paced and fun.
It was a cute little adventure story with some entertaining twists and a case of love at first sight. It will probably pass out of my memory quickly.
exciting little tale of intrigue among royalty. If you liked this you will like the graustark series by george barr mccutcheon.
