https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/953584.When_I_Get_Bigger
For starters, I found that When I get bigger by Mercer Mayer, a Golden Look-Look Book, is not just for kids but also for adults.
It is for kids to be reminded of the things that they are not yet supposed to do at a very young age; and at the same time, it is for adults to be reminded of how simple and joyful a child’s life is.
Little children wants to do many things but there are certain things they cannot do yet without the guidance of an adult.
While I recommend this book for little kids around six to seven years old, this book should be read and explained well by adults to avoid children growing up with misconceptions.
This is a great book to use in Kindergarten. It talks about all the things you can do when you are grown up. Although the things he wants to do a kind of silly, like go the 1st grade or make a phone call by himself, you can have your class think about what they want to do when they grow up and can talk about what their parents do.
Throughout the story, it gives several examples of what the boy wants to do when he gets bigger that are relatable to other kids.
At the end of the story, the boy says he has to go to bed because his parents tell him that he is not bigger yet.My thoughts: I liked this book a lot.
I think that a lot of thoughts the boy had in this book are relatable to kids.
They want to grow up and do "big kid" things, but for now, they have a bedtime and have to listen to their parents.
I rated the book When I Get Bigger by Mayer Mercer five stars because I absolutely love this book for young readers.
This story has a tone of humor and irony as the Little Critter images the many things he would like to do, but isn’t big enough to do them.
The illustrations seen on each page also displays plenty of humor as we see the Little Critter imaging his future self – he is dressed in a shirt, slacks, and tie, and gets to experience the many things he enjoys like eating candy, staying up late, and helping others.
I wasn't a huge fan of this book. I thought it was cute, and had a valuable meaning to it, however, I just didn't completely like the book as a whole. The illustrations were cute, and grabbed my attention, but I just didn't enjoy reading this book as a child. I think that this book would be more interesting if children were given the chance to talk about activities that they enjoy doing by themselves after reading it.
Good for kindergarten standards on when I grow up.
Shallow. I like the idea of what-ifs and then the end of going to bed, but the bulk of it was about stuff and having this or that.
GRL: KDRA: 18
Pre-first grade Little Crittter dreams of all the things he will do when he gets bigger. In the meantime, he has to go to bed.
While i've read books by Mercer Mayer before, i hadn't read this one! As usual, it was delightful and the pictures are brilliant.
This book takes children on a journey through many different possibilities for their future.
When I get bigger is a journey into the future that takes place during a shared reading lesson right in the classroom.
The excitement and enthusiasm in the classroom is powerful!This book is great to use for a writing lesson.
We discussed our ideas with our partners, and then shared with the class, after sharing, we went to the writing center and created a story of our own about what we want to be when we get bigger!

Throughout the story, he discusses all the things he is going to do when he gets bigger.
The illustrations are very bright, detailed, and fun.This would be a great book to use for read alouds in an early elementary school classroom.
Students could even do an activity after the read aloud where they write or draw about what they want to do when they get bigger.
Students would like this book because they can relate to many of the things that the narrator talks about.
This book would be fun to read in class, and I would enjoy doing activities based on it.
We are introduced to the main character Little Critter.
By the end of all his daydreaming, Little Critter is so tired he has to go to bed.
Before bed he admits to himself that he is not quite big enough for all this big duties.
Young readers are able to relate and learn from Little Critters journeys throughout the book.
This would be a great chance for your students to share a bit about themselves.
Your students can create an bout me poster!
With this poster students can share about themselves and what they plan to be when they get older and why.
This is another Little Critter book that every kid can relate to.
This story is about the little critter who wanted to grow up and do everything that he believes adults do.
For example he could stay up late, make his own money, take the bus by himself and pick out his own shoes.
The story ends with the little critter having to listen to his parents and go to bed because he’s not bigger yet.
The illustrations portray the little critter doing all of these “big kid” activities with much detail and many water colors.
I think this book is great for all Kindergarteners!
As a kid I remember reading many different "Little Critter" books, and loved looking at the illustrations.
This particular Little Critter book "When I Get Bigger' is a great beginner book for new readers because it contains big text with short and simple sentences that are easier to sound out.
Little Critter's excitement about growing up and all the fun activities he will get to do when he is older is a relatable thought that every child thinks about.
Children like reading books that they can relate to, and Little Critter is a character that is very relatable to all children.
This book is about Little Critter and what he’ll do when he’s bigger and growing up. He mentions that when he’s bigger he’ll go to first grade and he’ll even help the little kids on the swing set. This is a good book for children who want to grow up and also go to school. Many children look up to their older siblings who can do things that they can’t. This book let’s them know that one day they will be able to.
We have a lot of Little Critter books, and why not? They're short, they're funny, they're topical, and they're cheap. This one isn't my favorite.Little Critter talks about all the small things he'll do when he's bigger, like buying all the candy he wants. And then he finishes with a quick tag onto bedtime - he HAS to go to bed, because he's Not Bigger Yet. It's not a bad book, it's just not that interesting to my nieces.
Author: Mercer MayerGenre: Fiction Picture BookYear Published: 1983Reading Level: EarlyTopic/theme: Future, age, being young, abiding by "rules" of childhoodClassroom Uses: Read Aloud, Individual ReadingText and Illustrations: The text goes along with the images. There is no text without a correlating image. This makes the book easier to read.Summary: Litter Critter describes the things he'll the do when he gets bigger.Literary Devices: Personification, humor
Mayer, Mercer. When I Get Bigger. (1983)Annotation: Little Critter describes all of the things that her plans to do when he gets bigger. At the end of the book he is reminded by his parents that he is not bigger yet.Themes:growing up, making choicesWays to use with children: you can talk about the difference between kids their age and kids that are 5 years older, 10 years older, or adults. You can ask them what kinds of things they hope to do when they get older.Recommended ages:3- 8
This is a really fun book. Mercer Mayer always does a great job of including wonderful, captivating illustrations and clever stories in his books. In this one, Little Critter imagines all of the things he can do when he grows up or gets a little older. It would be fun to discuss with students/children what their current aspirations are for when they get a little bigger and for when they are adults. I can see many activities stemming from this one fascinating story.
This is an excellent book to use with kids as you discuss what they want as they get older. It teaches kids to set goals in their life. The little critter books always have cute pictures, and are easy for you children to follow along with. It also teaches a good lesson about following adults rules.
i love the art!but this little monster is out of date. when he gets bigger i don't think he'll have a watch (he'll use his cell phone), or a boom box (ipod), rollerskates (inline maybe, or part of his regular shoes), paper route (daddy what's a newspaper?), or dial the phone (dial?). and since i know what all those are, i'm old.
Most of Mayer's books that I have are about this little critter spending time with someone in his family but this time he is thinking about what he would do when he grows up. This can make a good discussion with children about what would they do when they grow up and become old enough to do things on their own.
This book was alright, definitely not my favorite. It was cute and nice, but nothing really exciting happened, it wasn't anything special to me. The illustrations were alright, not too great but they worked I guess. I think it would be a good book to read and ask "what to you want to do/be when you're older?!"
Little Critter dreams of the day when he can enter first grade and become more grown-up. After daydreaming all day about making phone calls, going to the store, and camping out in his backyard, Little Critter is so tired that he has to go to bed. In a way, this is also how many adults feel at the end of the day, except they don't have the luxury of only daydreaming about all of these tasks.
A Little Critter book where he describes all the things he can do when he gets older, such as dialing a phone, buying a train ticket to go to his grandparent's house, and getting a paper route. He laments being small and having to do what his parents tell him to do. Recommended for ages 5 months+, 3 stars.
I love love love this book. It is so cute ans short. It is something that all kidsa can relate too, the want to grow old and do things on their own. It goes through what the little guy would do when he gets big. It is an easy read and would be great to use for read aloud. It is a fun book to have in your class library. Great for beginner readers.
Such a cute book. The French translation "Grand Comme Moi" would be appropriate for bilingual storytime if translation was done during reading. Ideally, this would include explanations of some of the harder words. Best to re-read prior to storytime to confirm the translation.
Another cute story about the Little Critter where he shares what he will do whe he gets older. This can be turned into a writing activity about what the kids will do when they get older. Really cute and the children can make text to self connections
