https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15924.At_First_Sight
DEAD SOMETHING ALERT! DEAD SOMETHING ALERT!STOP READING THIS REVIEW NOW BECAUSE THERE IS A SPOILER OF SORTS HERE!CONTINUE ON IF YOU DARE..........Why do I read this crap when I know he's gonna kill someone off every time!???!?Screw you, Sparks!
Ok, usually I really like Sparks - his books are enjoyable, quick reads that don't take too many brain cells and sometimes give you a few warm fuzzies.Now, I didn't put this together with "True Believer" until I started to write this review, so I was pissed throughout the entire book because there was NO detail about how they fell in love, so it was completely unbelievable - it sounded like Jeremy was constantly trying to talk himself into believing he was in love.
I only ever pick up Nicholas Sparks because I loved  The Notebook, but this time it was a mistake.
The three main events in the book are:1.
Jeremy and Lexie are getting married, but someone is trying to break them up.
2. Their baby could die or be born with a deformity.
Neither of those happen!
Lexie just dies in childbirth instead.
But her death had nothing to do with the the threats to their relationship or the disease the baby didn't get, it was just a freak accident.
After reading many Nicholas Sparks books, I thought that he lost his magic.
But little did I know that this book was that "tear-trigger" of a book!!
I thought this book was gonna end with a happy note just like True Believer (its first part!).
But here I'm crying like never before.
And I would like to slap that one-heck-of-a-jerk Alvin!
It's just a book!
You are not Jeremy, you don't know Lexie and you haven't seen Claire"!
I know it's a cliche.
But, I don't know, this book just got through ma heart not even waiting for its pass to be checked!
Well, so far this book makes me want to die while vomiting. Patently unoriginal and laden with cliches, this book is about a romance between 2 people in their thirties who have the emotional development of teenagers. The characters' thoughts and behaviors are trite, predictable & almost always stereotypical. This book is a Harlequin romance packaged as literature, except not as good.
Set in North Carolina, United States, At First Sight is the sequel to Sparks’ previous book, "True Believer", written in the same year.
At First Sight, was originally the result of a 45-page epilogue in True Believer.
Sparks’ editor thought this was too long for an epilogue, and damaged the effect of True Believer.
جرمی سی و هفت ساله، برای ماموریتی از نیویورک به بون کریک میرود، و در آنجا «در اولین نگاه» عاشق لکسی میشود.
بارداری لکسی، شروع ارسال ایمیلهایی مرموز و توصیه های مادر بزرگ لکسی که واسطه ی روحی است، همه دست به دست هم میدهند تا جرمی با مشکلاتی مواجه شود.
In At First Sight, Jeremy and Lexie are preparing for their upcoming wedding shortly after Jeremy's move down to Boone Creek, N.C. to be with her.
When Jeremy begins to receive suspicious emails from an anonymous sender, the relationship goes through more twists and turns.Sparks rounds the book out with former characters: Lexie's psychic grandmother, the mayor of Boone Creek who always seems to know everyone's business, and the taxidermist/hotel employee whose wedding gift is a stuffed wild boar.
Sparks has a wonderful grip on the relationships between men and women, and just how many boundaries true love can cross.
She kept sneaking off to see...what's his face (I can't even remember his name...Rodney was it?) and then when Jeremy confronted her about it, not only did she try lying, but she tried manipulating him by turning it around saying it was his fault she had to sneak around!
Not to mention, Rodney and Lexie's best friend, Rachel, were having relationship problems because Rachel thinks Rodney's still in love with Lexie, so what does Lexie do?
She tries to "help" by consoling Rodney (ie: holding his hand, going over alone to his place to comfort him and listen) and then lies about it to Jeremy.
Save yourself $8 and get somebody to beat you with a stick, or run over you with a small car. It will be the same feeling you get from reading this book, and at least then you might get a sympathy card or some flowers. Not only was this book depressing, but the tragety was unrealistic, farfetched and unrelenting. Somebody do the world a favor and buy Nick Sparks a prescription to Prozac.
He drops his entire life and moves from NYC to Boone Creek to live with Lexie because she refuses to live in NYC.
Nope, Jeremy footed the bill for the entire thing.Then this mysterious email pops up and (kind of) threatens to derail everything.
Later on Jeremy gets into a fight with his best friend Alvin and ends the friendship--over one fight.
(Lexie gets her way yet again...*insert eye roll*)The ending of At First Sight was typical for a Nicholas Sparks novel in that he simply cannot allow his characters to ride off into the sunset.
This book just didn't do it for me.
I found myself continuing to read it hoping that it would get better.
I thought that Sparks was trying to make a book out of nothing...he should have left these characters as they were at the end of True Believer..instead he dragged them along and it ended up being a disaster.1.
I'm not saying everyone should live happily ever after but I felt this was more along the lines of shocking rather than fitting with the story.I'm sorry I wasted 2 days on this book.
It left nothing but a bad taste in my mouth.
Además de algunas faltas de ortografía, hay una repetición de expresiones que se hace insufrible ("ni tan solo", por ejemplo, aparece constantemente, y ni siquiera es una expresión natural en español).
Y hay errores de continuidad que son demasiado fuertes para que no me sienta un poco estafada por haber invertido dinero en este libro.
Caramba, sí que cunden 8 días en el universo Sparks; dan incluso para que pasen varias semanas.
Son solo dos ejemplos, pero es constante en la novela.
y mierdas varias más.Nunca hago críticas tan duras como esta, pero lo acabé hace cinco días y todavía me hierve la sangre.
I was kind of disappointed with this book. It is about Jeremy, who meets Lexie while on a writing assignment. Soon after, she becomes pregnant, and Jeremy arranges his life to be with Lexie; he moves to her hometown, they purchase a house, and he attempts to get his new life with her in order. I didn't feel much interested in the story, and it seemed kind of predictable. The ending was sad, but it did little to make me feel more connected to this book.
Sparks continues what he started in True Believer, not only with the story line but the wonderful twists. This is an author who is growing on me. Just when you think his story line is going to go down obvious paths he twists it around on you.
I don't know what I was expecting when I started reading Nicholas Spark but it certainly was not this, not because it was astounding but ordinary.
The writer has described things beautifully, the common problems in being a relationship,trust issues.
what exactly was the mysterious lights (I know they are called mysterious because they weren't known, but still there has to be something.)As for the ending my instincts were hinting me beforehand, and I wasn't much surprise nor grieved as I don't believe in expecting happy endings all the time, so I was okay with it.
At First Sight by Nicholas SparksJust like Jeremy and Lexie’s union, this book is really rather a waste of time.
It puts you through a relationship from hell with no rewards in sight even if you manage to reach the back cover.
Even the poor old baby that the two managed to conceive during one of their few better moments didn’t escape the misery that casts its shadow over all of this book.
Threatened when in the supposed safety and comfort of Lexie’s womb, doomed to be labeled a killer when it pops out, then inhabited by the restless spirit of its dead mother, this baby has been dealt one tough hand.
Quería leer esta bilogía hasta que descubrí que Nicholas mataba a su personaje principal, Lexie, y encima, tildándola de infiel, mala, mentirosa, y otras perlitas.
Me parece horrible que le hiciera ESO a un personaje como Lexie, que es todo bondad.
Sí, porque los hombres deben ser afortunados y las mujeres deben morirse.
Sí, Nicholas también mata a personajes masculinos, pero haciendo balance, prácticamente son ellas quienes siempre mueren, y el cáncer sobrevuela todas sus novelas.
Con esta bilogía, Nicholas me enfadó muchisimo y renuncié a leer todos los libros suyos que acaben en desgracia.
Estoy hasta las narices que putée a sus personajes.
I picked this up on a whim at the airport, on my way to see clients in Texas.
Up until then the only Sparks book I'd read was Nights in Rodanthe.
I think I'd received it as a selection of the month once when I forgot to return the slip.
So much so, that a couple of weeks later I was travling again and I picked up True Believer.These books certainly aren't challenging my intellect, but they do cause me to pause and take stock of where I am and what I have.
This book was excruciating. It seemed like Jeremy and Lexie were teenagers in their first relationship. They did not talk to each other and were both so selfish. I really hated Jeremy for how he was acting and that he was so focused on sex. It was so annoying. I wanted to read about their romance but they just fought all the time, we're winning and juvenile. And then there was all the drama that was so unnecessary I couldn't care less. Sparks should have left this story alone after the first book.
This book was definitely better than Part 1. Overall a 3.75. I thought that Jeremy's sacrifice to essentially move to Boone Creek was a strong decision coming from a city boy, but this only proved that Lexie meant the world to him and their relationship got stronger throughout the book. I loved how Jeremy carried himself with their alternating stresses, but the end of the book, definitely wrecked me. Good read!!
Ono kad dođeš do posljednje stranice i ne vjeruješ da je kraj, a suze teku li teku... Pa to samo može Sparks! Divna, divna, divna!
So much so that at times you will feel like you are a Harvard graduate when you're reading it.
It feels so fake and forced- what mayor knows everything about EVERYONE in his town?
Then there's the fact that Lexie acts like a girl who doesn't know what relationships are.
Jeremy voices his concerns with her 'sneaking' around and seeing another guy (even if it's not a romantic type of see- it still isn't right for her to do) and she gets mad at him and makes HIM feel bad.
Then the ending happens and you're just kind of like.."...really?" Basically, this is NOT in Sparks' top five.

A wonderful novel about love and life. Nicholas Sparks does a great job of describing the joys and heartaches of two people who have fallen in love and yet question their choices. I really enjoyed the way the prologue and epilogue tie together the beginning and end of the story.
It just kept going like that until I was done reading the book.
I would really have loved to read more details about how he met Lexie 'cause this book had failed in that prospect.
But as the book made it seem so, he was really in love with her and the other way around; which didn't convince me at all.
On the minus side, I thought this book was a little bit all over the place.
It felt like some parts shouldn't be there and I completely had no idea what they're supposed to mean and if they even have to do with anything.
Jeremy, who is a journalist, travels to Boones Creek, South Carolina to write his column on "the Mysterious Lights." As he was doing his column, he met Lexie, who talked about her dead parents and visiting "the Mysterious Lights." In the two weeks he was there, he fell in love with her and decided to propose to her.
Then he goes to Boones Creek, where their friendship becomes strained and Alvin does something that risks Jeremy’s friendship and his relationship with Lexie.Before he moved to Boones Creek, Jeremy was more into fashionable attire and loved to do something different each day.
There are few things Jeremy Marsh was sure he'd never do: he'd never leave New York City; never give his heart away again after barely surviving one failed marriage; and most of all, never become a parent.
Now, Jeremy is living in the tiny town of Boone Creek, North Carolina, married to Lexie Darnell, the love of his life, and anticipating the birth of their daughter.
But just as his life seems to be settling into a blissful pattern, an unsettling and mysterious message re-opens old wounds and sets off a chain of events that will forever change the course of this young couples marriage
"At First Sight" was the best love story I have read.
Jeremy Marsh told himself that he would never give his heart away; he also promised himself that he would never leave New York.
He is also starting a new family of his own.
When he thinks everything is going good, he gets a chain email that changes everything.
Now he has doubts and doesn't know if he is in love as he thought he was.
I don't think young kids or young teenagers should read this book, some of the content in the book is not appropriate for that age group.
This book is a romance between Jeremy, a successful New York magazine columnist, who falls in love with Lexie, a country girl, and moves to her neck of the woods away from the city. The author delves into the dynamics of friendship, commitment, marriage, pregnancy and fatherhood. It gave insights into the adjustments involved in entering and maintaining a serious relationship by centering on Jeremy's and Lexie's feelings as their relationship progressed. The ending surprised me so I'd say it is a good book and recommend it to anyone who likes romance.
