https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148121.Drawing_the_Head_and_Figure
This is a fantastic book for learning to draw people.
It's from the fifties, so the styles of hair and dress are outdated and the features are more European looking, but it's still an excellent reference and I improved my skills just by practice drawing some of the figures and employing the suggested techniques.
I ordered this used off Amazon for a very affordable price (less than $5) and it was so worth it.
I highly recommend this to artists who want to focus on figure drawing.
I'm marking it read, but I will continue to consult and work on my drawing from this book.
I will always be "currently reading" this one as I use often for reference.
Not as conceptually complex as Hogarth, nor as aesthetically a master of gesture as Loomis, but certainly a worthwhile book while I was learning the form. That is, if you aren't creeped out by the fact that most of the nude sketches are of his wife, whom he dedicates the book to. I was quite a young man when I got this book, so that confused me a little.
(More pictures at parkablogs.com)Here's a great figure drawing book for beginners. The author/artist Jack Hamm has packed the 120 pages with over 3000 illustrations and loads of drawing tips.What I like particularly about this book is the plentiful use of anatomical landmarks and proportion guides. In demonstrating the height of a man as eight heads, he literally filled the man with eight heads. There are helpful grids for finding features and checking proportionals.Every subject is accompanied
The author/artist Jack Hamm has packed the 120 pages with over 3000 illustrations and loads of drawing tips.What I like particularly about this book is the plentiful use of anatomical landmarks and proportion guides.
There are helpful grids for finding features and checking proportionals.Every subject is accompanied by plenty of examples in different variations, making this book also like a style book.
The instructions are concise and easy to understand.I've read some reviews complaining about the book being outdated.
Well, the only thing outdated here is the hair style but even so, the techniques taught to draw hair is applicable to modern hairstyles as well.
Another great drawing book I am very happy to have in my collection. It has wonderful tips and tricks the beginner drawer would kill to learn! It is a little plain jane showing no color and the illustrations are quite outdated but none the less, this book is definitely recommended by me!
One my favorite art books on drawing the human figure that I use over and over again. Solves the conundrum of drawing the human ear!
Some drawings were wrong, but over all there were good points and some mistakes beginners usually do.But If you are an intermediate/advanced artist I wouldn't really recommend this book for you.This book would only show basic lines and shapes.
There are only few points about lighting, shading, but none on how to improve your drawing skills.
All of the drawings in the book were more as cartooned, if you're looking for realistic drawings and realistic art then you should pay more attention to details ..
This book might not be what you're looking for ..
It was a nice book.
I've read a lot of drawing books over the years, but this book puts all the other figure/portrait drawing books that I've read to shame.
This one is especially helpful for semi-realistic sketches and graphic novel illustrations, because I wouldn't say that all the diagrams in this book will speak true to a live model...
Some of the tips are cartoony, but still relevant to real-life sketches.
There are a lot of helpful anatomical pictures that aren't just diagrams with labels, but practical guides to demonstrate how to draw certain muscles.This is a great book for anyone who seeks to add realism to their portraits.
Non of my art teachers have ever taught me any of these simple yet useful principles for drawing people. After reading each page, I felt gratitude towards the author. It was filled with useful techniques. One of the best books I've ever read educating myself in arts.
Lots of specific technical instructions and tips, though the print quality feels like 1920s newsprint.
Wonderful
i want to readthis whole book now
This book is remarkably helpful for beginners to intermediate. Clothes and hair are dated but the techniques on drawing are rock solid and easy to follow.
+ solid draftsmanship skills with a variety of mediums+ very easy to understand the tips - author went over complex methods first, and then a more simplified take.+ addresses unique drawing issues such as the fist, the writing hand, how to simplify folds, etc.+ content was very thorough: addressed all anatomy and clothing.- author has the same-face (and body) syndrome where there's not much variety in structure.
I think every artist has their favorite reference book for drawing the human figure. This is mine. There is so much to absorb in these pages - Jack has literally filled every nook and cranny with illustrations, pointers, and to-the-point explanation. Lovely to browse, just for the sheer beauty of his work. Though it is a little dated, with 'modern dress' from the era it was published (60's), his tips and tricks are incredibly perceptive, easy to absorb and invaluable. WONDERFUL.
I love this book. It is one of the best art books I've come across. The information and tips are timeless and unbiased. What I mean about unbiased it doesn't assume you're drawing realistic or drawing cartoon or anything else; the information is relevant for both. It is very informative but not to the point that you're overwhelmed. Everything is relevant. Out of all my art books, the one I keep coming back to is this one.
Really good book for beginners, of which I definitely am one, on how to draw the figure. Has plenty of examples, well explained descriptions, is well structured, and provides many different 'methods' to go about drawing the figure and its parts. A book I'm going to be using for reference for a while I think.
This is the very best book for learning to draw the face. I have used it as a textbook in my portrait classes. The illustration style is a little dated, but I like the 1960's style. The human face has not changed since then. This book gives lessons in proportions and drawing features that are just great for students.
It's been a long while, but I remember being rather unimpressed with this book. I suppose that I feel that way about a lot of self-help drawing books. I think that may have to do with my own development as an artist, which has been through diligence and practice. I also have not enjoyed drawing classes, so this just may not be my thing.
This is an exceptionally thorough reference on drawing the complete human figure. He includes a multitude of little tricks and points out many minute details one may overlook,. This book makes drawing people so much easier and accurate.
This is an easy step by step book . I really love it , it really progressed my drawing skills in a human figure .it just gives you the basics that you should know , i really recommend it for those who are keen about the natural figure in a human body . It's really a good easy one !
A good book with lots of good information. Not as complex as Hogarth or others, but has lots of explanations and formulas that are very useful. It would be a welcome addition to a collection of anatomy books.
I bought a physical copy from Amazon.com for 10 USD and it worths every penny! It offers simple techniques and tips as well as step-by-step procedures. Check out my full reference books collection here: http://korpannita.wordpress.com/2013/...
As a wannabe self-taught artist, I found this to be an excellent reference for my shelf. I realized that I really can draw faces, reclining figures, and hands (!) after using the lessons in this book.
I love this book!!!!
This book will make you good at drawing people. Study every page. Copy every page three times.
The style is decidedly "old school" but the information is brilliant. It might require creative application by the reader, but this book (and his others) are very much worth owning for reference.
Very useful for honing your drawing skills. I'm still trying to learn new things from it. It isn't big on text, but references aplenty.
is good book
Buscando desarrollo personal.
