https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/769212.The_Last_Seven_Months_of_Anne_Frank
Those complaining that this book doesn't detail every day in the last seven months of Anne's life need to stop and realize that the only person with her all that time also died.
That the author of this book found six women who had spent any time with Anne is remarkable.
Given the gravity of the Holocaust and the uphill battle of finding anyone who spent any time with her and knew her name at the time is impressive.This book does spend more time on the lives of the six women, as is to be expected.
I bought this book because I wanted to know the "rest of the story": what happened to Anne Frank after she and her family were discovered.
As a mother, this book was almost unbearable because I could not stop thinking about what it would have been like to have been a prisoner and not know where my children were.
This book could count either as non fiction or autobiography in my class, and althought it is tough to read it definitely makes you appreciate the Allies in World War II who stopped Hitler, as well as your freedom to eat whatever you want whenever you want.
I bought this book in the hopes that I would learn what happened to Anne during the 7 months she spent in the concentration camps.
Instead, I heard the stories of several women who, at best, had chance encounters with Anne Frank.While the stories these women told were heart-rendering and moving, they were not about Anne Frank.
In some cases, the only experiences that these women had with Anne was seeing her in passing in the camps, or riding in the same cattle car with her while being transported.I wondered throughout the book if the author simply used Anne Frank in order to sell more books.
Instead, I kept reading wondering when the women would have meaningful encounters with Anne Frank.
Being the one person on the planet who actually wants to go to Amsterdam just to see the Anne Frank House, I loved this book.
It's full of little known family photos and first person accounts of her last days from the people who were actually there with herin the camps,who survived.
It's amazing to be able to picture her so personally, and to have it feel so real and as if it might have happened to *you*...it's a great companion to the diary, and I'm sure teachers could use parts of it for a lesson plan too.
Because Anne Frank is the most well-known victim of the Holocaust, Lindwer uses her to broaden his audience.
They loved the Anne Frank story & wanted more.
They didn't want to read about the horrors of the Holocaust.
It is true that the book concentrates more on the survivors than it does of Anne Frank but think about it.
To anyone wanting Anne's story, this is it.
Anne's story is the "everyman's" story of those who died in the Holocaust.
Any survivor telling the horrors of those who died tells Anne's story.
If anything, it heightens the emotional impact of the diary.
This book was not about Anne Frank's last seven months, but the stories of 6 women about her individual experiences in the concentration camps.
Many reviewers say this title was deceptive, and yes, it was, because this women just crossed Anne and her family at one point of another, but I guess the author "used" Anne to illustrate anyone's experience at the time.
This events happened to so many people that, in a way, they happened to Anne, to Margo, to her mother, to her father, to any of the women or men who were there.There is so much suffering that this stories are just SO hard to read.
I bought this book in Jerusalem after I met Mrs. Hannah Elisabeth Pick-Goslar known as "Lies Goosens" in Anne Franks Tagebuch. She gave us a speech on the last time she saw and spoke to Anne with the barbwire between them. She is a wonderful lady with good spirit, she could speak German, and I showed her my Tagebuch bought in Berlin Anne Frank Centre, she signed my book. I was happy that in my life time I am so lucky to meet her and hear her speech of their stories. This book is basically interv
I bought this book in Jerusalem after I met Mrs. Hannah Elisabeth Pick-Goslar known as "Lies Goosens" in Anne Frank´s Tagebuch.
She gave us a speech on the last time she saw and spoke to Anne with the barbwire between them.
She is a wonderful lady with good spirit, she could speak German, and I showed her my Tagebuch bought in Berlin Anne Frank Centre, she signed my book.
I was happy that in my life time I am so lucky to meet her and hear her speech of their stories.
A nice book accompany with Anne Frank´s Tagebuch.
Actually, each of them has their own stories, moving and incredible.
Excellent book.
I never realized (if I knew, I had forgotten) that Anne Frank actually died of typhus at Bergen-Belsen - not the gas chamber at Auschwitz-Birknau and just a few weeks before the liberation of the camps.
The book also gives her diary a bit more of a context, as there is some information about her life before and after going into hiding.
And that they just let us go to hell, did nothing, and also let the trains go on running to Auschwitz, to Birkenau, continuously, even though they knew what was going on.
Por mais livros que tenha lido do Holocausto, ainda consigo ficar chocada, horrorizada e de lágrima no olho com alguns testemunhos.
Este livro fez-me passar por isso, over and over again...
Se estão à espera de conhecer mais profundamente a vida da Anne Frank, este livro sinceramente não acho que traga muito conteúdo nesse aspeto, daí não ter achado o título o mais adequado.
É sim um livro de relatos de pessoas que se cruzaram com a família Frank durante a deportação, mas algumas delas nem tiveram grande aproximação à família.
Por isso, o livro não me deslumbrou por aí, mas pelos relatos das vivências dessas pessoas naquele período da história.
Another moment of clarity for me was that even surviving these death camps your whole life may have been ripped away.
As Janny says when she goes home after liberation and is reunited with her family "I had a husband and two children, I was rich." In particular the story of Janny Brandes-Brilleslijper alone is a must read.
She says "I want to repeat, I have told this because I want to make it very clear to a large number of people that all discrimination - whatever form it takes - is evil and that the world can go to pieces because of it.
Many of the accounts refer to an electrified fence around the camp, which some people would walk into to their deaths rather than face the gas chambers.
We don't learn much more about the individual stort of Anne and her family, but we do end up with an impicit understanding about how awful their lives (and indeed deaths) must have been.
I would urge people to read this book - everyone must understand some of the things that happened in the lifetimes of our Grandparents, because by knowing hopefully it will never happen again.
In this respect, I found the book even more interesting.it was also very inspiring to see that small groups of women united in common friendship and solidarity managed to survive where others just gave up, full of despair.
If it were not for the group, some of these might also not have survived.Loved the book and highly recommend it.Maria Carmo,Lisbon 4 May 2016 (four days after I finished reading this book).
Whilst this book is an extremely important first-hand account of the Holocaust, as others have stated it's not what you'd expect from the title - it tells you much about the lives of six brave women, but only a little about Anne Frank.
Anne only gets mentioned in passing, and I therefore think the author and publishers have been a little misleading in presenting this as a book about Anne Frank.
When the book was published in the eighties, it was widely thought that Anne's death was very close to Belsen's liberation in April 1945.
A series of interviews from women who crossed paths with Anne Frank in Auschwitz and Bergen-Belsen, there is real pain in the simple way they tell their stories. Anne Frank is often a symbol of the 6+ million who died in concentration camps, but here are six more women with stories to tell. And every one should be heard.
Um livro com relatos muito fortes, mas que exprimem bem e dão nos uma visão do que foi a segunda guerra mundial. 6 mulheres, 6 relatos, todas conheceram Anne Frank. Emocionei me muito lendo este livro... Mas acho que é um livro que todos deviam ler.
Lo leí hace muchos años, y realmente es un libro recomendado para una/un joven que se puede identificar claramente con la edad de Anna.
Es un libro realmente cálido porque fue escrito con el simple propósito de ser un diario, el confesionario de una persona común que se enfrenta a preguntas de la vida diaria, de crecer, pero al mismo de enfrentarse a adversidades.
Yo ataño el éxito que ha tenido y que para mi tiene es que te identificas con la autora, ves la cotidianidad de la vida pero de pronto es coartada la narrativa porque Anna fue detenida, porque terminó su vida, y es recordarnos y presentarnos de forma sutil las injusticias y como un pequeño evento puede cambiar nuestras vidas.
O futuro dos meus filhos será o que eles quiserem, tem onde dormir e o que comer.Nenhuma das mulheres que dá o seu testemunho neste livro podia dizer a mesma coisa.Quando entro no metro e há os apitos de sinalização, eu continuo a minha vida normal.
Mas acredito que teria gostado ainda mais se o titulo não falasse em Anne Frank e se as referencias a seu respeito não tivessem sido incluídas.Ainda assim, creio que é um livro importante, seis testemunhos que não podem ser deixados de parte.
This book is an important addition to the Diary, and fills in extra details about others whose lives overlapped with Anne's, even if fleetingly, in the months after the Franks' capture.I urge anyone who is even remotely interested in humanity to read this book.
It is nevertheless worth the effort, because these stories deserve to be told.The most interesting for me was the account by Hanneli Goslar, because she was such a significant figure in Anne's childhood and features so prominently in the Diary.
This is a collection of interviews with six women who knew Anne Frank after her arrest.
These women are not famous like Anne, but their stories are important too.
I've always wanted to visit the Anne Frank house in Amsterdam, but one of the women who knew Anne, wrote in the visitor's book, Anne would not have wanted this.
I did not know they went to Auschwitz-Birkenau.
In 1996 I visited Auschwitz-Birkenau.
It was a profound moment I'll never forget.This book is not in anyway a pleasure to read, but it is important to hear these stories.
I bought this two days ago after visiting the Anne Frank Huis in Amsterdam, because I have always been very interested in tales of the Holocaust and have of course read her diary.
However, I thought the title was a bit misleading because it was not about the last seven months of Anne's life at all.
It was seven months (sometimes more) in the lives of these other women, who caught glimpses of Anne or maybe stood next to her...
They were just two more girls amongst so many; at that time, nobody knew that Anne Frank's name would be the one remembered out of all those in the camp.
I bought this book at the Anne Frank house in amsterdam.
When I read the back I thought that I was going to find out about Anne in the camps.
Instead I was presented with others stories who shared in the experiences.
My heart hurts so badly for each of these ladies.
My only though tomboy liking the book was the stories were poorly edited.'they were told in the exact thoughts and phrases the ladies told them.Although it's great to hear them exacty as they remember them, it would of been great for it to e in proper English.
You don't need to be familiar with the Anne Frank story to be drawn into this book. It has first hand accounts of several women who survived the concentration camps, and crossed paths with Anne Frank while there, sometimes in very small ways. They really give the details of the special challenges women faced in the camps, and how they made it through. Their stories are fascinating and inspiring apart from their Anne Frank connection.
This is yet another book that illustrates the strength of the human spirit. It isn't pleasant to read about what these women went through during the holocaust, but we owe it to them to hear their story. If they could survive it and live to tell the story...the least we can do is listen, and try to learn something from it. Each woman knew the Frank family and either shared a barracks, a position in line for roll call, or a transport with them.
*2.5* It wasn't what I was expecting...
Bru.Tal!!
Willy Lindwer collected interviews with several women who knew Ann Frank after she was arrested for his documentary.
He did a really good job of editing and the stories flow smoothly.I felt like a terrible person after reading the first two interviews.
I wondered am I so insensitized by today's TV shows and movies that I'm thinking "this isn't so bad." Maybe it was because I knew they survived or maybe it was because the women themselves were detached and numb to the horror.It wasn't until the interview with Rachel van Amerongen-Frankfoorder that the real horror came through.
If you're going to read this, it's important to keep in mind that the book ties into the documentary of the same name and features the FULL INTERVIEWS of the people who knew the Frank family during the last months of their lives.
That's not necessarily a criticism because their stories are so heartbreaking and eye opening, but it's just not quite as Anne Frank-centric as I'd thought.One woman who was interviewed only had very brief passing encounters with Anne and only knew her during that time in the concentration camps.
Regardless of how well whether or not she knew Anne, her story was heart wrenching, and it was impossible for me to read this book without crying.
That being said, I thoroughly enjoyed this book and the stories of the six women who had known Anne in some way.
There were details present within these survivors' stories which I haven't read before.
I do feel that the title would have been better if it was just related to the women who gave their experiences.
There was very little about Anne Frank in this book.
I have to say I feel she was included in the book as a selling point as what these women went through was just as horrific as what The Franks' went through.
Okay, so it's not like Anne Frank wrote a diary while she was a prisoner.
Obviously.
This book consists of six women who crossed paths with the Frank family after they were arrested/caught hiding in the Annex.
Unfortunately, to cross paths with them meant these women were arrested for crimes or for hiding and sent down the same path as Anne Frank.
While each woman let the experience affect her differently, the storytelling is repetitive.
This story Literally only focuses on Anne.
We don't know what happened to her mother or father because they were separated and the author only followed the one path.

