https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60431.Andy_Goldsworthy
genius. beauty. vision. composition. patience. space. color. leaf. stick. stone. life.
My kids are ooohh-ing and aaahh--ing behind me right now looking at the amazing art photographs in this book. We want to try to do some of this art. Amazing and beautiful stuff!NOTE: If you can get your hands on a DVD called Andy Goldsworthy: Rivers and Tides, get it and watch it. It is Andy Goldsworthy himself creating art and explaining the processes and thoughts behind his artwork. Though slow moving, my kids loved it and after looking through the above book, I really wanted to understand more about the creation of his art.
This dude inspires the shit out of me.
I see art where I never saw it before.
Goldsworthy creates quirky art from natural objects with infinite patience and originality. I've never seen an artist do the stuff he does. He makes ice spirals that defy gravity; tracks of leaves through the forest,pinned to earth with pine needles, and choosing sizes and colors that blow the view away. Most of his art is temporary, to be washed away by the tide; melted by the midday sun; or washed away by a rising stream. Yet there is something almost holy about the work. You gotta love it if you have an open mind for art and creativity.
"Scottish artist Andy Goldsworthy uses a seemingly infinite array of purely natural materials, from snow and ice to leaves, stone, and twigs in the creation of his one-of-a-kind sculptures. All of his materials return to nature leaving behind only the photos in this book."A stunning portfolio of art from natural materials. It makes one want to rush out to see what possible creations can be constructed in one's own yard. In my case however, my dogs would surely eat whatever I touched and my creative energies would be channeled into a rousing game of, "No! Bad dog!"
An unbelievably beautiful book. It is diffucult to believe that the artist achieves such spectacular results using only natural materials. The photose in the book are serene. I did not suspect that rotten birch or elder wood can be so beautiful. Goldsworthy makes one see nature's bright colors and the unusual shapes like nobody else. His art does not copy nature, it makes us see it through his eyes. And the view is etheral...
Ok, so I didn't really "read" this. But loved the pictures, although the quality of the photographs leaves something to be desired. I hate modern art, or installations, but these go beyond into the realm of the truly beautiful. I love this guys work. It is beyond amazing. Folks that really want to be modern artists, should study stuff like this.
...fantastic book - one of my faves - Andy is truly an EcoSpirit - from what I know of his works, he takes nothing from nature, only harmonizes with it - just as the Native Americans would [ the original 'EcoSpirits'] ...some of my favorite works by him are in this hardback - Do read his statements of each piece, as they give insight to his reason.
This artist creates his work using what's around him and then dismantles or lets it return to nature. This book lets you in on his thought and creation process.
I never knew the true power of art before i came to know Andy Goldsworthy's work. His work is honest and simple in such an ingenious way that i never imagined was possible. The way he immerses himself in nature is as profound as Bibhutibhushan's Aranyak. After knowing his work, I find myself looking at the world differently, seeing beauty in places I never noticed before. Andy, you are my hero.
This amazing artist makes temporary, site-specific sculptures using snow, soil, leaves, stone, water and such transitory materials, that photographs are the best record of the work. And the photographs are extraordinary.Search YouTube: there is an hour and a half documentary that we watched for an hour; remarkable.Highest recommendation.
Its absolutely beautiful and refreshing to read and look at!! I rate this book a straight 5\5!
I could look at it all day. Makes me wanna go outside and make a bunch of weird crap outta whatever.
This man does to natural material what John Donne does to words.
Stunning. A real eye opener to what we might not otherwise 'see.'
Beautiful art that is all about non-attachment, process instead of product, letting go. I also love Rivers and Tides, a film about how Goldsworthy creates his art.
You know, I thought art wasn't for me. I like art museums, but they don't fascinate me like they do for some people. I appreciate the effort and the vision of art in general, but I've never really connected. Turns out I was just waiting for Andy Goldsworthy to come into my life.
I discovered Goldsworthy soon after reading both Gaston Bachelard’s The Poetics of Space and Robert Grudin’s Time and the Art of Living. They make a beautiful trio together, recommended for an inspiring experience.
I couldn't stop thumbing thorough this book when I first bought it. Thanks to goodreads recommendation for reintroducing me to this old friend. Anyone with any interest in art should give this book a try. Just gorgeous. The Goldsworthy has an amazing talent.
Incredible, inspiring and so beautiful. This book spoke to me in many ways.
Fascinating. The intricacy of the work here as well as what patience it must take to assemble pieces like this--the mind boggles.
The author explained about the nature in a good way. I recommend this book for all nature lovers.
One of my favorite artists using the natural world as his palette
This is no substitute for seeing his work in SF but it was a welcome addition.
love love love
It's a romantic book
Installations and artworks using material from nature with natural contexts in mind. Some outstanding works but I am sure the photos didn't quite capture the scale and brilliance the real work must have looked. Still, it makes me want to go out there to do something too...
After an intro to Goldsworthy's art, we went outdoors, were assigned to random groups of 4 or 5, given an area in a valley to work in and a few moments to share our visions for what we'd like to create.
We were given a set amount of time and told to work together in complete silence.
Every group created beautiful, ephemeral works of art far greater than anyone's vision.
Working in silence allowed us to focus on the valley, see ourselves as one with the land, and "see and hear" it's participation in the work.
my qeuion is were you ?
what cany do ?
that is what i thing and i can fill well now if your cerias ,i can tel you what my rio think ,i cant tel you what is my heat thing now ,because so many people taking like you so that's thy i can tel you aft you ,to tel me your aswer , i can tel you what a bout scret and my names yaers.ok fast see that
