https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148960.The_Hand_in_the_Glove
I actually feel guilty giving this two stars. I worship Rex Stout and as much as I love the fact that he was writing about an intelligent and skilled female private detective in 1937...I just didn’t enjoy the book. Of course it was well written but I wasn't engaged or entertained the way I've come to expect from Stout. I think other mystery lovers probably will like it but it just didn’t do it for me. Give me my Nero and Archie any day.
Dol Bonner is the main character of this mystery. Lesser Rex Stout
It was an interesting mystery, but not the same kind of humor and character-driven entertainment of the Nero Wolfe series.
Hand in the Glove features Dol Bonner, a young woman who has started her detective agency with the financial help of wealthy heiress Sylvia Raffray, who is on the cusp of taking over her family fortune.
Dol sets out to solve the murder of her friend's ward and prove herself as a detective.Nero Wolfe doesn't appear in this story, but Inspector Cramer does make a cameo.
Sylvia Raffray fills the part of spoiled rich kid and is completely useless to Dol. While everyone seems to like her, it's a mystery to me why they do.Even with a stronger cast of supporting characters, it's doubtful Bonner would have ever made it in a series.
I love Rex Stout's Nero Wolfe series of mysteries and was quite happy to stumble upon this Dol Bonnor book by him.
It seemed like the start of new series by this author, but it was the only Dol Bonnor book he wrote, although she does have minor roles in some of the Nero Wolfe mysteries.
Although the book was a little dated, I nevertheless found it to be an excellent whodunit.
In fact, I found it to be quite a charming little mystery.
I'd strongly recommend it to all Rex Stout fans.
I've never read any other Rex Stout books, not one Nero Wolfe have I perused.Dol Bonner is the detective of this story and she's great.
She was far from being the first female detective in fiction but when this was published in 1937 it was still a fairly outlandish idea.
Apprently Dol appeared in a couple of Nero Wolfe books but why Stout didn't persevere with Dol in her own series is a mystery in itself.
She's smart, sexy and takes no nonsense from anyone.
In fact it reads very much like an old movie.Tip top stuff!
This one feature Dol (Theodolinda) Bonner and her partner who appear do actually appear in the Nero Wolfe series, and Dol is respected completely by Wolfe.
I looked to see if there were any others like this and there is one other: The Red Thread featuring Inspector Cramer.Interestingly enough, Dol feels about men a similar way that Wolfe feels about women.
Would have like this to be completely told via Dol’s point of view.
But in retrospect, I think this story feels a bit like the Alphabet Hicks stories more than the Wolfe series.
Wonderful!...Too bad it seems to be the only book he wrote in this series...I would definitely have read the rest of the series. It was nice to have a young female private investigator who still made mistakes but gets the job done when all others are running around like headless chickens. Highly recommend.
In which we meet Dol Bonner, one of the few women that Nero Wolfe respects. Wolfe does not appear in this story; it's fun to see how Stout writes a character who isn't sure of herself. Stout's writing mostly makes up for a slightly-unsavory ending.
a very quick and intriguing read
Having long been a fan of the Nero Wolfe mysteries, I recently listened to this dramatization on a road trip and am eager to read other Dol Bonner mysteries by Rex Stout.
Rex Stout is best known for his iconic Nero Wolfe character, but he also created the female detective Theodolinda "Dol" Bonner, who came to being in the standalone novel "The Hand in the Glove" in 1937, one of the very first female private eyes.Although Stout only gave Bonner one solo outing, she also guest-starred in some of the Nero Wolfe stories, one of the few women Wolfe tolerated perhaps because she herself claimed to have been "inoculated against" men, even her suitor, the newspaperman Len Chisholm.
I stumbled upon this book at a used bookstore, and since Dol Bonner had appeared on several occasions, I thought I'd read it.First of all, the formula Stout had developed with Wolfe, really doesn't work well in this case.
It is nowhere near as witty as Archie's banter to the audience (and himself.) Also the constant mentioning that Dol disliked men and why should have only been mentioned once or twice, and not the half-dozen or more times it was brought up.The mystery itself was good, including Dol's detective work and her handling of the clues, but I can't rate this story as highly as Stout's Wolfe books (still, it was better than "Under the Andes"...)
I am a huge Rex Stout fan, and this is the first of his books that I had to push myself to complete.
Here he gives most of the characters introduced in the Nero Wolfe books a rest (including Nero and Archie), and introduces female detective Dol Bonner.
It is a pretty drastic deviation from the seemingly easy style used in the Nero Wolfe books, and came relatively early in his writing career -- i.e., just three years after his first Nero Wolfe novel, Fer-de-Lance.
In the words of Amazon reviewer John P Bernat: "Rex felt like exploring nonconventional religion, nonconventional relationships and nonconventional detectives, but the guy's just way too conventional for the job.
Homicide Detective Cramer of the Nero Wolfe series puts in an appearance, and I gather Dol will make a future appearance or two in later Wolfe series entries, but this lacks the sparkle and shine of the Archie/Wolfe banter.
Seems more dated; in at least one of Dol's monologues I can clearly hear the voice of a young Katherine Hepburn in one of those earnest 1930s movie roles."--I could work with you, Mr. Sherwood, if you would let me.
I think I'm clever.
I'm quite young, and it may turn out that I'm merely conceited and my pride has been hurt, but I think I'm clever.
Man, I keep reading Rex Stout novels that are not Nero Wolfe stories, hoping that they'll be just as great, and I keep getting disappointed.
This is better than the others I've read, I suppose, but still no where nearly as satisfying as a Wolfe.
I'd been thinking that the problem is that the main character here - Dol Bonner, a female detective who plays a minor recurring role in the Wolfe novels - doesn't really show the qualities or competence that have garnered her Wolfe's & Goodwin's respect.
But on reflection, I think my main complaint is that Stout himself is not nearly as engaging a narrator as Archie Goodwin, and that might be the problem with all his other books.
I heartily recommend this book, for pure entertainment it is hard to do better than a Rex Stout mystery, I just love his use of language.
Rex’s protagonist in this novel is Dol Bonner, one of the earliest examples of a female detective (it should be noted that the protagonist in Red Threads is also a female, thought not a licensed detective as is Dol).
In this story Dol is hired to dig up dirt on a man.
Fans of Stout will be delighted in see Inspector Cramer, his cigar chewing self, highly involved in this story.
I would be remiss in not mentioning that Dol is recurring character in Stout novels.
This is the one and only novel Rex Stout wrote with a female detective as the main character.
Dol Bonner shows up as supporting cast in a few Nero Wolfe stories, but in this one, she's the star.
I think Stout does a fair job of giving us a newly minted detective, and doesn't harp too much on the fact that she's female.
The story kept me guessing and the characters were engaging - which, really, is what I look for in a Stout mystery.My one complaint?
That there aren't any more books devoted to Dol Bonner.
I love Rex Stout, and I think this was a really good book.
I had read all of the Nero Wolfe and Tec Fox books before I found this one.
First of all, you can't compare it to Nero Wolfe.
However, I think he did a great job of creating a unique character and tells it as the first time she ever solved a murder.
No, it's not a perfect detecting job, but it is a great read and interesting mystery.
I liked it better than the Tec Fox books although the Broken Vase is definitely worth a read.
I've always been intrigued by Dol Bonner, a female private eye who appears now and then in Nero Wolfe stories. I was elated to discover that she has her own story! This wasn't my favorite, mainly because it depicts Dol at the beginning of her career rather than as an established professional. She solves the case, partly by being determined, but is also maddeningly uncertain and doubtful of her own talents.
Theodolinda "Dol" Bonner is just starting her detective agency with her wealthy partner Sylvia Raffray when Sylvia's guardian, P. L. Storrs pulls the plug. But just after Bonner breaks the news to the office, Storrs shows up and hires her! She doesn't know it but she's about to plunge into a case of murder, a twisted mind geared to enjoy destruction and... a watermelon?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(I'll get into my thoughts on this later. I'm still sorting them out.)
Very good cast of characters, fine writing, and a strange plot (involving watermelons and strangled pheasants)--a whodunit that ends with a surprising, nasty-spectacular revelation. A second-tier Stout book but with the added curiosity of being one of the early--1937--notable detective novels to feature a woman private eye.
Rex Stout creates a tough female private eye in Dol Bonner.Stout has a gift for making dialogue flow smoothly and for keeping the reason for the murder hidden until the end.Good book for a fall afternoon.
An enjoyable murder mystery which kept me guessing.
no wonder bonner never came back. she was nothing of a detective. miss marple could do just as good
Somebody on amazon accused Dol Bonner of being a crypto-lesbian. I say, bring on the crypto-lesbians.
Ouch. As an avid Nero Wolfe fan, I was excited to find this book. Terrible disappointment.
