https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15654.The_Stranger_Beside_Me
“And, like all the others, I have been manipulated to suit Ted’s needs. I don’t feel particularly embarrassed or resentful about that. I was one of many, all of us intelligent, compassionate people who had no real comprehension of what possessed him, what drove him obsessively.”  Would you trust this man?Comparisons could be made between Lois Lane and the writer Ann Rule. She was caught in the middle of a bizarre set of circumstances that was quickly becoming a nightmare. Someone she considered
Even with her years of work in law enforcement, she still had trouble believing what was being said about Ted Bundy.
The female psychopaths could fool the male staff but not the women.” Rule worked with Ted Bundy at the crisis center in Seattle, answering the calls of those in desperate need of help.
Wherever Ted Bundy lived, pretty, young women were dying.
To most women, if King Arthur were to take off his helmet, they would want him to look like Ted Bundy.
She believed in the man that Bundy was supposed to be.
I suppose when you are discussing something as sensitive as a serial killer's dump-site for a battered, raped, & strangled 12 year old girl's body, you sorta need to bust out a little bit of the old flowery sympathies and "oh, the humanities." And when you find out that you were close, personal friends with a psychopathic killer, people expect a pretty heavy-handed amount of "woe is me, I never really knew him, will I ever really know anyone, why was I so stupid, who am I, God?" Debra Morgan ballyhoo.
What’s one less person on the face of the earth, anyway?     Ted has been described as the perfect son, the perfect student, the Boy Scout grown to adulthood, a genius, as handsome as a movie idol, a bright light in the future of the Republican Party, a sensitive psychiatric social worker, a budding lawyer, a trusted friend, a young man for whom the future could surely hold only success. He is all of these things, and none of them. Ted Bundy fits no pattern at all; you could not look at his re
Ted Bundy fits no pattern at all; you could not look at his record and say: "See, it was inevitable that he would turn out like this." In fact, it was incomprehensible.
Probably the most famous of all serial killers, Ted confessed to killing 30 women (though the number of actual victims is believed to be much higher).
Ann Rule had no idea her buddy, Ted Bundy, was a serial killer, rapist and necrophile.
At times, she claims Ted calls her only to talk, and then it is clearly evident by what their conversation is about that Ted had other motives than friendly discussion.
She worked next to him one night a week for a year, attended two work-related Christmas parties with him and then had one lunch face to face with him and she claims, "I may know Ted as well as anyone has ever known him." I find that hard to believe.
Ann Rule also states, "Ted's psyche so dominated Meg's (Ted's ex) that I am amazed that she was ever able to break free," but, in my mind, I don't understand how Rule was never able to break free.
Wow!!!!Ann Rule takes us on a thrilling journey of the life and death of serial killer Ted Bundy.
I feel very conflicted however about the relationship between Ann and Ted. She doesn't explain until "The Last Chapter" that she held hopes for him to still help the world in the way that she first knew him to help people.
It is even rarer to get a serial killer the likes of Ted Bundy caught alive and held in captivity where we could possibly study him and learn from him.
Between the epilogue, the afterword 1986, the last chapter 1989, the update: twenty years later 2000, and a postscript penned by Rule's daughter, I thought I might never finish this.That said, it is considered by many to be the definitive work not only on Bundy the serial killer, but also on Bundy the charismatic, attractive, and promising law student.And really.
If you happen to pick up a later printing like I did, consider skipping the epilogue, the update 2000 and the postscript.As an aside, though unintentional or not on the part of Rule, I think there is an interesting discussion of the death penalty.
خیلی از قاتل های سریالی ماسک انسان های نرمال رو دارند ولی باندی انگار هردو چهره رو "واقعا " داره این مرد جذاب و به شدت کاریزماتیک که با کت و شلوار در دادگاه میشینه و از خودش دفاع می کنه و هوش بالایی که صرف این سیاهی درونش میشه.
صرف پاک کردن رد جنایت هاش و دوبار (!) فرار از زندانان رول نویسنده کتاب دوست قدیمیه باندیه که در طی سال های دستگیری باندی باهاش ارتباط داره و در کتاب سعی می کنه چیزی بیشتر از یک قاتل سریالی از تد نشون بده.
And Rule's interjections of what was happening with her personal life are annoying; they don't connect to any of the other events she's writing about, and since her entire description of her feelings towards and interactions with bundy are about as dry as when she's describing third parties, there's no need to know about who she is.
I do wonder if Rule has ever written a more straightforward memoir about how she felt, and how she feels, about her dealings with Ted. She was both his friend and someone who could profit a great deal from his friendship, and it leads to some morally ambiguous territory.
“I was one of many, all of us intelligent, compassionate people who had no real comprehension of what possessed him, what drove him obsessively.”Ann Rule had signed a contract to write a book on a series of brutal and heinous murders of beautiful young women, not knowing she was going to be writing about the man she had worked alongside at a suicide hotline.
The Stranger Beside Me is a biographical and autobiographical crime book offering insight into one of America’s most prolific serial killers, Ted Bundy.Straight up, one of the most enjoyable books I read this year.
Ted Bundy was convicted of horrific crimes against young women and girls. I think it takes a special strength to tell his story as objectively as possible, but I cannot imagine the resolve and commitment required to write this book about a companion. Brilliantly balanced, the author somehow separates the young man that worked in the crisis center and went on to become her friend, with the wanted "Ted". As if I needed another reason to admire Ann Rule.
This was the first book I ever read by Ann Rule and it was the perfect true crime book. I found a battered copy at a used bookshop.I inhaled this book during a Christmas break and was so intrigued how close Ann came to know Ted Bundy when she was volunteering at the suicide help line.Yes he is a charismatic serial killer who targeted young women and when he got caught he denied nothing This book is a modern classic.
I have read another book by Ann Rule and the thing I like about her books is that even though they are non-fiction they read like a fiction story.This book is about the famous serial killer Ted Bundy who terrorized U.S in the 70's.
I found the investigation procedures and the court trials really good to read.There was a time when his guilt was not proven and he managed to escape out of Jail and was applauded and treated as a celebrity among the people.
At one time I felt no girl is safe from him in spite of where she is.
Ann Rule was a prolific true crime writer, and this is the work that really put her on the map.
Back in the ‘70s, in some weird twist of fate, the serial killer she was writing about turned out to be her friend, Ted. The Stranger Beside Me is a well written and researched insider’s take on Ted Bundy, his murders, and his trial.
Not only do we get Bundy’s narrative, but we see the way it impacted Rule’s life.
If you’re interested in true crime and have not yet read this classic, I’d definitely recommend it.— Beth O’Brienfrom The Best Books We Read In April 2017: http://bookriot.com/2017/05/01/riot-r...
An uneven read. Sometimes griping and fascinating, other times tedious and dragging. Even tho Ann Rule's relationship with Ted Bundy and her unique perspective on the whole case made the book interesting, I almost wished I read something written by a different person. Someone with better writing skills.I'd still recommend "The Stranger Beside Me" to anyone who wants a very detailed account of Bundy's life, but be prepared... This is a long and tiresome book.
When I picked it up again, I simply could not put it down.Ann Rule is one of the premiere true crime writers, but what made this one special was that she had been friends with Ted Bundy (and had worked with him at a Crisis Hotline!) before he was a suspect in the myriad heinous crimes he eventually confessed to a few days before he was executed.The most riveting thing about the book was the dichotomy that was Ted Bundy.
He was eventually convicted of three murders and was given three death sentences.Ann Rule continued to correspond with Bundy in prison, even providing money for his commissary fund, almost until the end.
I don't know that I am happy to now be haunted by the idea of this mans evil, sadistic behavior, but it was really interesting and I am glad I spent the time reading it.
I thought her account of the whole insane debacle was, at the very least, fair - despite having been such close friends with Ted, she did not let anything other than facts sway her opinion in reference to his guilt (or seeming lack of in the very beginning.)This was really in-depth, well-rounded and very well written.
- or am I?) I very much enjoyed my time with this book.
I was a freshman at FSU in the fall of 1979 and had a work study job at the multimedia laboratory on campus. I worked with professionals learning about campus TV productions, photography, and journalism. Several of the people that I worked with had to go to Bundy's trial to testify for the defense. After he killed the girls at FSU's Chi Omega sorority house, it was a multi media laboratory van that he stole and drove to Lakeland where he killed his final victim and was captured.Basically, they w
I was a freshman at FSU in the fall of 1979 and had a work study job at the multimedia laboratory on campus.
Several of the people that I worked with had to go to Bundy's trial to testify for the defense.
For obvious reasons, I loved it - trying to unravel the twisted mind of this man is something that can never be accomplished, but having lived on campus that year and seeing everyone wearing "Burn Bundy" tshirts, it was a book I had to read.
In person book club read #12.I can't wait to talk about this one with the gals in the bookclub.
I've always been fascinated by Ted Bundy, and actually think I read this before right after it was first published.
Very good!I clearly remember when Bundy was electrocuted for 36 murders, all young attractive women, many killed in their college rooms as they slept.
Will probably add to this later.UPDATE:Following our book club discussion, I decided to change my rating from 5 stars to 4.
It is the story of Ted Bundy we all find fascinating, but not necessarily this particular book or Ann Rule's writing.
We serial killers are your sons, we are your husbands, we are everywhere. And there will be more of your children dead tomorrow. What are the chances of a ex-policewoman turned journalist working on a story about random murders taking place in the country actually having worked at close quarters with the same serial killer in a crisis centre? That's a pretty unique position to be in and Ann Rule was unfortunate enough to be on the spot. She had bonded with Ted over months of saving people's liv
Vacillating from fear to tenderness, from friendship to hate, from a desire to get Bundy receive the help he badly needed to a need to tell the victim's stories, Rule has written a comprehensive and insightful book about this case.
The author follows the different murders and disappearances one by one and keeps the knowledge of the culprit or the end result from the reader for the first half of the book.
Rule and Bundy corresponded over a long period, and she shared some of his letters in the book, which I found rather enlightening.The author might have been friends with a serial killer but she also shows respect and sympathy for the murdered women and their families.
2.5 starsThe book packs a punch because of its content not its writing.There are really two stories here:1) The horrific and fantastical story of Ted Bundy 2) The story of Ann RuleI loved the one and was disappointed in the other.This almost feels like fan fiction rather than investigative non-fiction. Some details were included only because the people asked the author to do so rather than these additions adding anything of value to the story.I found it interesting that the author fell under Bun
2.5 starsThe book packs a punch because of its content not its writing.There are really two stories here:1)	The horrific and fantastical story of Ted Bundy 2)	The story of Ann RuleI loved the one and was disappointed in the other.This almost feels like fan fiction rather than investigative non-fiction.
I don’t doubt that Ann got to know Bundy in a way that made her viewpoint unique, but it felt as if she wanted to convince readers that their connection was one of a kind snowflake unique.The story of Bundy himself was what fascinated me and kept me coming back to this book that could have benefited from an editor.
Could she not have rewritten the book instead of adding a 'Final Chapter', an 'Afterword' and then an 'Update'?Caught in a quagmire of cliches and hackneyed phrases, Ann Rule doesn't even try to get out to 'normal' writing.Ted Bundy was a terrifying man, and I think he might just be the most evil character I've ever come across (in the real world as well as the fictional one).
Ann Rule's "The Stranger Beside Me" is probably the most frightening of all the accounts of Ted Bundy's murderous career.
Rule's sadness over the story comes through in nearly every page - - sadness at the loss of lives and sadness over what Bundy's life could have been and what he could have offered had he not been so consumed by murder.
Having known Bundy before he became infamous as a serial killer, Rule gives insight into Bundy's personality and character, from his childhood, through his adolescence into his political and legal aspirations, all the while fostering a murderous rage toward women.
I was hooked from the first page.
What an opportunity Rule had.
This definitely made her career, and it also shows that Bundy, like many others, is more than a cardboard cut out figure of a killer.This was really excellent.
I think Rule had great insights, and I think she might be right when she said Bundy probably fooled James Dobson in the famous interview.
She showed her slow realization that he was a sociopath.I think the interesting thing is that there are many of these folks walking among us.
Most just don't turn into sexual psychopaths like Bundy did.
The Stranger Beside Me is an outstanding true-crime classic that delves into and tackles the crimes of serial killer Ted Bundy in the 1970s.Ted Bundy is one of the most prolific serial-killers in the US history. He killed only women, young and beautiful. He stalked them in the most predatory way, and then killed them in the most horrific ways. (view spoiler)[ Not only is Ted Bundy a sadistic serial killer, he was also a rapist and necrophiliac. He even killed as young as 12 years old. (hide spoi

With that said, this is not in any way a pro-Bundy book.
In some ways, this account is as much her coming to terms with this revelation as it is a detailed profile and report on Bundy.
In short, Rule's book is the benchmark and should be the first readers grab when wanting to learn all there is to know about Ted Bundy.
Note: Readers interested in better understanding the "why" behind Bundy's crimes will want to read the superb Without Conscience: The Disturbing World of the Psychopaths Among Us, written by the foremost expert on psychopathy.
Many true crime stories are easily predictable and sensationalist pieces, but The Stranger Beside Me is not the case. This book tells the story of notorious serial killer Ted Bundy, but instead of focusing on him, it focuses on the opinions of one of his close friends, who finds herself trying to come to terms with his twisted actions.
Wow! Powerful book. Excellent writing. I knew a little about Ted Bundy, but this book goes in depth to his psyche. It was an emotional roller coaster. Some days were harder to read than others. All in all I would recommend this book! Having said that, I would not read it again! Once was enough!
Ted Bundy often used a sling or a fake cast to appear vulnerable and have pretty college co-eds play the part of Good Samaritan to help this guy.
On the TV show The Following (RIP- I loved that show), serial killer Joe Carroll was a good-looking charismatic man who had legions of followers even after the details of his horrific crimes are made known.
Ted Bundy had a nation of women who actually cried and mourned when he was put to death.For this reason, I find Bundy the most terrifying serial killer.
This type of monster terrifies me way more than any scary monster in a movie.
I have looked many killers in the eyes...some who committed crimes as disturbing as Bundy's.
The most disturbing thing about Bundy is the fact that most people couldn't see it.
Even his friend, Ann Rule, didn't see it.
"The Stranger Beside Me" by Ann Rule is a brilliantly constructed book.
This book includes a lot of details that I never heard anywhere until I read Rule's book.
I enjoy all of Rule's work, but this one is different.
I recommend it to anyone who likes reading crime books.
It reads like a novel, only it's more difficult to stomach.
Ann Rule was in a position any crime writer would be jealous of: she starts writing a book about a series of incredibly awful crimes and finds out the central suspect is a person she knows.
Yet as the book went on, it seemed more like she was just another Ted Bundy "groupie," fascinated with him and unable to believe such a "nice" person would do such awful things.
Sorry, but I didn't end the book with any sympathy for Ted Bundy, just a greater terror that there can be people out there like that in the world, and people who will admire and trust them to the end of their days.
