https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12299419-mystery-man
No one bothered to tell me that Dog the Bounty Hunter was making an appearance in this book.Then...just when I thought it couldn't get any more surreal, I saw this :her sister, Ginger KiddWait a sec...is there really a character named ginger kid?Disclaimer : I adore red haired children.
It's too bad that it took almost an entire book before I got excited about what was going on.What interested me the most were the side characters.
But I think I know that it's just part of the package and you have to deal with it if you're going to read and enjoy these books.The squishy belly thing was just odd though.
-1.000 StarsWhen I decided to read this book I thought I was in for something, at the very least, interesting if not mind-blowing, since most of my friends seemed to love it. What I got was a messed up relationship, a shallow(and idiotic) heroine and a hero who... a hero... um, I really don't know what to say about the hero. Reasons why the heroine was an impecile who should have died long ago: 1) She was having sex with a guy whose name she didn't even know. Not once or twice, but every week fo

*fans self*I'm surprised this book didn't self-combust from the degree of  utterly squee/drool/swoon-worthy, bossy, possessive, unapologetic, sweet, tender, badass, HOT UBER ALPHA males  in it!!
"You can have sex for 5 hours?"He smiled at me.Yikes.Moving on." There is a little bit of repetativeness in the dialogue, and the main couple have one stupid moment where I wanted to throttle them both, but the smooth writing, badass overload, laugh out loud moments, action, tender sweet moments, and uber alpha males kept me turning the pages and not wanting to put the book down!
Starting off the year with a re-read fave... MYSTERY MANHAWKGWEN“'You live in your head too much, you curl up and shut shit out and spend so much time doing it, you forget to live your life. You can’t live your life in your head. That isn’t living.'” “'You’re livin’ in Badass World, baby,' he whispered in my ear. 'Fair warning, until I fix what I cut in you, you’re there to stay.'” "'You're in deep with me, aren't you, baby?'I whispered my question just to confirm.'Drowning.' he whispered back.”
Starting off the year with a re-read fave... MYSTERY MANHAWKGWEN“'You live in your head too much, you curl up and shut shit out and spend so much time doing it, you forget to live your life. You can’t live your life in your head. That isn’t living.'”
“'You’re livin’ in Badass World, baby,' he whispered in my ear. 'Fair warning, until I fix what I cut in you, you’re there to stay.'”
"'You're in deep with me, aren't you, baby?'I whispered my question just to confirm.'Drowning.' he whispered back.”
Find me at:
4/13/18 - ON SALE for $1.99: https://amzn.to/2vaoLTbRight off the bat, if you want to know if this is a book for you, ask yourself this question (and answer it HONESTLY): do you find the idea of meeting a ridiculously hot alpha male--we're talking ex-special forces--at a bar, taking him home for the best sex OF YOUR LIFE, never learning his name, then afterwards him leaving, never to be seen again, except a few days later he's back in your bed, waking you for more of the best sex OF YOUR LIFE, a
https://amzn.to/2vaoLTbRight off the bat, if you want to know if this is a book for you, ask yourself this question (and answer it HONESTLY): do you find the idea of meeting a ridiculously hot alpha male--we're talking ex-special forces--at a bar, taking him home for the best sex OF YOUR LIFE, never learning his name, then afterwards him leaving, never to be seen again, except a few days later he's back in your bed, waking you for more of the best sex OF YOUR LIFE, a pattern that continues for over a year, until a situation with your wild child sister puts you in danger and drags him out of the shadows and into the daylight of your life, b/c Big, Strong Man protects what he considers his (i.e. YOU), and the best sex OF YOUR LIFE turning into something more .
Gwen has a one night stand with a man, who is presumably to be Hawk...but she's not quite sure and to be honest, neither am I.
Gwen didn't even know WHO it was or HOW he got into her house either, hence the name Mystery Man. A little creepy and grotesque if you ask me.
Gwen opening her legs to random strangers does not work for me, especially if you can't even see his face!Hawk is a man of few words.
I find it comical that the heroine is an editor when this book needs serious editing itself.
Hopefully I can get past her editing.
5 Cabe “Hawk” Delgado Stars!!!   I LOVE HAWK!  Just going to put that out there before I review this book! How can you not??? What a yummy alpha male! Okay okay now to the book...A year and a half. Thats how long Gwendolyn Kidd has been sleeping with MM, her Mystery Man. A year and a half ago she heard these words at the bar...  “You comin’ or what?”   She took MM home with her that night, and now he makes regular weekly visits. Sneaks in at night, then disappears. Gwen is having some issues wit
How he answers a lot of Gwen’s questions:“Babe” and when he leaves its because he’s ”Got shit to do, babe.”  Their ‘first date’- “Tonight, you in a little black dress and high heels, I’ll be there at seven thirty.” “Are you asking me out on a date?”“Sweet Pea, I’ve been fuckin’ you for a year and a half.” “I know.”“So no, I’m not askin’.
“Do you promise to handle me with care?” “Promise” he whispered“Swear?” I pushed.“Swear, baby.” “You had a hand up too, Hawk.” I told him.“Dropped it a while ago, Gwen.”There is a lot going on in this book...
This is good because I like tits and ass.”  “A year and a half.
Some of the story premise was a little out there but it had the sexy alpha male you come to expect from KA. Hawk is actually one of the less intense heroes I've read from her as far as possessiveness is concerned. He had enough to play it up but he was pretty cool about it.... Well compared to someone like Knight that is lol The plot did lose me briefly but it wrapped up nicely. Gwen did not win me over like the other heroines have. I'd rate this a 3.5.

I STILL get all pissed at how KA twists Hawk's being an asshole that dumps Gwen into somehow being Gwen's fault and she has to beg him to forgive her!!
And...DO NOT even get me started on his mother coming to yell at Gwen and guilt tripping her when it was HER son that was being the asshole...sigh.
Why do I keep re-reading this book??
LMAOThere are so many things that annoy me with this book, Gwen's an idiot, Hawk is a douche, but it is still one of my favorite books and I re-read it often...Re-Read April 2017.
3 to 3.5 stars The three star rating is completely due to Gwen's annoying and nitwitted character.
Not even Hawk, the swoonalishous hero, could fully save this book for me.
I really tried to love this book but the heroine just rubbed me wrong.
Really, really wrong!
I understand why Hawk was enamored by her, he's the hero after all; but I'm still trying to figure out why Mitch and Tack were so smitten with her.
Of all Kristen Ashley heroines I've read, Gwen had the least substance to her character.
I did, however, like the last 20% of the book, and the epilogue was fantastic!
She’s three, wielding scissors and causing mayhem and heartbreak.” I kept blabbing as I dug in my purse, found my checkbook and then kept scrounging for a pen declaring, “She was always, always a bad seed.”Now, I know you girls have settled your problems, so I'll let off that one.About your Mystery Man. Sweety, a year and a half?
And I think you flitted to them, when you and Hawk had problems, too often.
And you're right, that year and a half-totally missed out.I'm very sorry about everything that happened to you and I'm glad you found Gwennie.
I would have been waiting at the front door for him or at the least left the windows and doors unlocked!When danger finds Gwen the first person to show to protect her is Mystery Man. She then finds out that he knows all about her and she learns who he is.
Hawk has the means to protect her through his background and his business.Gwen also finds out that he saw her first at the bar that night:I asked to be seated in that booth,” he informed me and I sucked in a breath at what he might be saying.
I have become a big audiobook person lately because real life is crazy and I desperately need my romance fixes!!
Hawk, the hero, was Gwen's mystery man and she had been his booty call for a year and a half.
Then Gwen is threatened and dragged into a big mess because of her trashy sister's illegal actions.
and then her midnight mystery man shows up (who is HOT!) to scold her.
I actually think of all of KA alpha men that I have met so far Hawk would be their leader.
5 stars – Romantic SuspenseAll the single ladies, all the single ladiesAll the single ladies, all the single ladiesAll the single ladies...Now pack your bags up!Considering there’s not one but four yummy heroes introduced in this first book in the Dream Man series that’s set in Denver, Colorado (all of whom get their own book...YAY!), not to mention the smokin’ hot, badass alpha heroes from Ashley’s Colorado Mountain series, and it definitely wouldn’t be surprising if all the single ladies suddenly packed up and moved to Colorado.
I tried to stick it out because so many adore the series- but between the god awful dialog, "umm...
Yeah".
"ummmm".
Umm" , and the wince worthy 1st person narrative, "then i walked in the front door.
Then i walked to the kitchen.
Then i pulled out a chair.
Then i sat down.".
And to say nothing of the fact the main character is an obvious Mary Sue for the author.
And last but certainly not least, I can usually handle the uber-alpha hero, love me some Barrons who alot of people can't handle, but the hero in this one is a jackass, plain and simple- WHATEVER THE REASONS FOR HIS BEHAVIOR!
Meet the guys... ;) ADMIRER #1 :  NAME:  Mitch Lawson. OCCUPATION: Detective Mitch Lawson ;) "Mitch".I whispered."What a perfect name ,soft and strong, things a cop need to be... Mitch."He stared at me."Is it?", he asked."Perfect".He stared at me some more.  DESCRIPTION  With the perfect cop name that starts with 3 silent constables and ends with 'Lawson' as in 'son of the law.' Mitch is the hot-ass,soft spoken smoldering detective put on the case to bring down Gwendoline's little sister-from-he
Mystery man was surprisingly a fun read, that kept me laughing while swinging through the chapters from the beginning to its the end..Loved watching all 3 Alpha-Hot males fighting to win over our heroine,Miss Gwendoline Kidd aka 'Queen crash and burn' in all possible ways..whether they had to beg,borrow or steal...(or kidnap her in this case.)I absolutely loved every secondary character, starting from the family members to her best friends,all who I felt came along and added their added personal touches to the final plot.
2.5 starsGwendolyn Kidd and Cabe "Hawk" Delgado.Ordinarily Kristen Ashley's books would not be the type of romances I'd read.
And I am seriously beginning to think that all Kristen Ashley's heroes went to the same school - "Babe".
And all her heroines swam in the same gene pool - tall, long legs, big hair and all tits and ass.Entertaining as her books are, others may take issue with her writing style that often reads like an unedited draft with typos, rambling sentences and lack of punctuation.
Be prepared for an enjoyable read, albeit at times frustrating and wordy.Steam: 2.5
I can't help it but I just have to gush all the time.Cabe "Hawk" Delgado comes straight from Badass World.
"Man to man, babe, he's a man, he can take it and he's gotta know he fucked up."For the first time in my life I was wishing murder wasn't illegal.When Gwen thinks about Cabe's job then she's got that on her mind (um, maybe she was joking, I'm not all that sure, though):"You fly on your supersonic jet to hot, humid, tropical, war torn nations, execute your duties as a soldier for hire which means doing things like blowing up bridges and beating infidels into submission."The first half of the book is absolutely hilarious and the testosterone is all over the book.
5 I'M OFFICIALLY A KA FAN STARS!!!!!(BR with Elizabeth, Melissa, Tiffany, Angie, Lynn, Idelle, & Julie)A-M-A-Z-I-N-G!!! This was my first KA book and BOY IT DID NOT DISAPPOINT!I kept seeing all over Good Reads all the rave reviews on so many of her books and more than a few of my friends told me to get on the KA band wagon and quick.Well "Mystery Man" was definitely the PERFECT choice for my first endeavor into KA. Gwendolyn Kidd has been having a hot affair with SEXY and ALL ALPHA MALE, Cab
Gwen and Hawk grow closer during all the craziness as Hawk makes it his main mission to keep her safe, and he also makes it quite clear to all the other men who are in love with her, that she belongs to him alone.This guy has suffered great loss and it explains why he was only the mystery man in Gwen's life for the past year and a half.Gwen's had her heart broken and has been living inside her head for quite a while.It explains why she was always "ok" with the relationship she had with Hawk.But Hawk is seeing now that he "Missed Out" for the past year and a half, when he gets to know this feisty woman, who also can make him laugh like no other."Mystery Man" has tons of action, suspense, sexy scenes, a terrific heroine, and an ALPHA to top all ALPHAs!!I can't say enough about this one!!It was simply PERFECT!!!!The Epilogue KICKED ASS!!!
3.75 cookie dough solves every problem STARS  “You’re livin’ in Badass World, baby,” he whispered in my ear. “Fair warning, until I fix what I cut in you, you’re there to stay.”   WHAT A HOT MESS!There was so much going on, ups and downs and people getting kidnapped and shot at and so many characters. I just LOLed all the time.If you follow my review you might know that I started my Kristen Ashley experience with the Unfinished Hero series and those books are essentially a two people character s
WHAT A HOT MESS!There was so much going on, ups and downs and people getting kidnapped and shot at and so many characters.
I just LOLed all the time.If you follow my review you might know that I started my Kristen Ashley experience with the Unfinished Hero series and those books are essentially a two people character study.That's why Mystery Man was such a complete surprise with all the side characters...and all the drama they brought to the table.
“Are you here to freak me out in any other way?""Nope.""This would include asking me for a date," I warned."Babe, don't date," he replied."You don't?""Do tequila shots followed by 5 hours of sex count as a date?
Mystery Man is a mystery no more and he is definitely a superhero!!I’m at a loss for words, other than Kristen Ashley blew me away AGAIN!
Just when you think to yourself that she can’t out-do the possessive male jerk from the last book you read…WRONG…let me introduce you to Cabe “Hawk” Delgado.
Somehow when I read a KA book I find that I can’t sit still!!
Kristen Ashley writes such, that you read yourself right into the book.
There was a whole troupe of secondary characters that I would love to see featured in future books.
First read: March 1, 2012I really don't think Ms. Ashley can write a 'bad' book!This was fricken Amazing!Love Hawk & Gwen, and her messed up sister, and the biker dudes, the 'Hot' cops, and all the Commando type guys.....
Second read: March 5, 2013The last couple of days I have been re-introduced to Kristen Ashley's mysterious and fantastic world of Commando's, Motorcycle Bad-Asses, sexy Cop's, and Private Investigator's...
and I FRIGGEN LOVED IT...AGAIN!!!It has been exactly a year since I first met Cabe "Hawk" Delgato & Gwen Kidd.
I for one think this author deserves a Good Reads prize for handing out these Alpha goodie treats for the world to share!I found myself in a bit of a book slump, and was kindly advised to get my reading bottom into gear and start the 'Dream man' series.
So I decided to start a Kristen Ashley book binge, and OH yes what a book to start with, dream man I got.
you did it again.Hot, sexy, original premise.
On top of that, a likable heroine (can KA write one who isn't likable?
Is that even in her wheelhouse?), and another badass alpha male.
I will say, I was torn through a good chunk of the book.
'Cause I loved Gwen with Hawk, Tack, and Mitch (kinda how I REALLY loved Jules with Luke.
I'm a sucker for a good love triangle).
Hawk was a good choice.
COME ON lol.I read Dream Man before this, so it was cool to see Tack before his story took off.
Also, loved seeing Lee, Mace, and Luke here.
It was during my thinking on the books I read while adding them to GR when I first came on.
The reason I gave this a 4 was the fact it had annoyed me Gwen had this guy come into her house for a year and half and didn't ask his name or anything...just could not relate to it.In Real Life, I still in would never relate to that happening....
This, in turn, causes Hot Biker Tack to meet Gwen and put her on his "interest" radar....
This was my first KA <3 And a beginning of a beautiful friendship (addiction XD)The story is an unusual one :) Gwen has a man that she only sees at night, they don't talk, she doesn't even know his name, but what she does know is that he's good in bed XD One day everything changes, her sister gets into a lot of trouble, and that forces Hawk to "come out".
And I'm glad I'm doing KA re-reads cause I know I can go no wrong with her, AND because in Mystery Man we get to see the dudes from Rock Chick, and Shirleen!
Mystery Man is fantastic. It's "laugh out loud" funny, at times quirky and full of hot alpha males, that'll have your "toes curling". Top that off with a wonderful heroine, who has fabulous taste in shoes! What more can you ask for?Cabe "Hawke" Delgado. Kristen Ashley you've done it AGAIN. Loved it!
Spoiler Free Review5 STAR READGenre: Contemporary Romance/Romantic Suspense-AdultSeries: Book 1 in Dream Man series"Sweet Pea, what do you think i do for a living?"- Hawk" You fly on your Super sonic Jet to hot, humid, tropical, war torn nations, execute your duties as a soilder for hire which means doing things like blowing up bridges and beating infidels into submission."- Gwen in Mystery ManI put all other books on pause to read this just to see what all the hype was about and i was not left disappointed.
This is not a spoiler as it is the premise of the entire book; she sleeps with a man for a year and a half without knowing his freaking name or anything about him!(view spoiler)[without a condom after the first few times FYI (hide spoiler)] People...a year and a half!!
And I have to say this, old fashion or not, softened and half-assed reasoned away or not, it is slutty.(view spoiler)[that's her word for herself in her brief moments of clarity (hide spoiler)]I don't like my heroines slutty...not one bit.
(view spoiler)[ further evidence of slutdom, her tingly bits are revving up for two other men while she is sleeping with Hawk!
