https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78166.The_Age_of_Faith
And, finally, I began on Will Durant’s Age of Faith, the massive fourth installment of his even more massive Story of Civilization, which covers the period from the death of Constantine (337) to the death of Dante Alighieri (1321).An enormous amount of information is packed into these pages—so much that I can’t hope to do justice to it all in this review.
Durant aims to tell the story of the collapse of the Western Roman Empire and the resulting political chaos of Western Europe; the gradual decline and fall of the Eastern Empire and the development of Byzantine culture; the emergence of the modern political landscape from the invasions and conquests of the Middle Ages; as well as the history of the three major religions, Christianity, Islam, and Judaism.
ولی در هر بخشی دورانتها به رویکرد زندگینامه نویسی روی آورده اند که بی شک میتوان گفت شیرینی و تعلیقیه اصلی کتاب برای غیرمورخانی مثل من استبرای من زندگی نامه اهمیت بسیاری دارد، ترکیبی از روایت تاریخی و داستانی که هم افق گشاست و هم محدودکننده خیال؛ محدودکننده به معنای بازدارنده خیال از سقوط به آنچه امثال نوسبام و مرداک نام آن را توهم گذاشته انددر توصیه نهایی به این نکته بر خواهم گشت محتوای کتاب انتهای کتاب حدودا 450 منبع ذکرشده که در متن به آنها ارجاع داده شده است!
I picked this up thinking I ought to know more about medieval history, and now by God I know more about medieval history.
Quite a lot more, really.
The fact that I retain so much of such a long book says a lot about Durant's skills as a writer.
Since he finished the book in 1946 I am sure that some of the scholarship is out of date, but he was quite progressive for his time, and in any case this is about broad outlines and good stories not careful interpretations.
As a part of my bucket list I'm slowly making my way through all these volumes--I would read them faster but they are so heavy I really have a hard time holding up the book while reading in bed--so I have to read sitting up, which I don't have much time for.
I love these books and really enjoy his witty style.
I wonder how many experts and linguists must have helped him put all this information together.
This volume covers Christian, Jewish and Muslim development from the 300s AD.
to the 1300s--a lot happened, a lot of important people thought and wrote.
One gets the sense that Will and (Ariel Durant) have to work slightly harder to find interest in this volume - it's not the glory of ancient empires, nor the flowering of the Renaissance and Enlightenment in volumes to come.
But their work pays off, and this book, running from the last pagan Roman Emperor until Dante, is a hefty cornucopia of philosophy, art, music, wars, and all the other follies of civilisation.
Here're a few of the pithy quotes from this volume (the full list exceed the max characters allowed in these reviews!)• In a developed civilization nothing can equal the free man’s varying wage, salary, or profit as an economic stimulus. IV-29• Eloquence is seldom accurate. IV-31• Every civilization is a fruit from the sturdy tree of barbarism, and falls at the greatest distance from the trunk. IV-31• If art is the organization of materials, the Roman Catholic Church is among the most imposing m
A perfect ethic would ask the paramount co-operation of every part with the greatest whole—with the universe itself, or its essential life and order, or God; on that plane religion and morality would be one.
As men are members of one another, and generations are moments in a family line, so civilizations are units in a larger whole whose name is history; they are stages in the life of man.
IV-343•	Civilization is polygenetic—it is the co-operative product of many peoples, ranks, and faiths; and no one who studies its history can be a bigot of race or creed.
"'The woman,'" Aquinas wrote, "'is subject to the man on account of the weakness of her nature, both mind and body.'" This is, he believed the law of nature and that law in his Aristotle-based theology was the law of God. Facing the lessons of Aristotle that were coming into Europe at the time, Aristotle could not ignore the biological nature of man.
At the risk of becoming tiresome, I must say Durant again surpasses himself in the fourth volume of his magnum opus, The Age of Faith.
I expect he covers the One Hundred Years War and the Black Plague in volume V.
I most enjoyed his description of the birth of Gothic architecture and his great summaries of the thoughts of great Islamic, Judaic and Christian thinkers.
This enlivens history, which is mostly tragedies, wars, pestilence and famine.
His view of the Middle Ages as a robust period where Northern barbarians were tamed by the inheritance of Greek and Roman cultures through Christianity is spot on.
High school history classes, beyond brief surveys of antique civilizations, took off in the early modern era, focusing on revolutions such as those in the Americas, France and Russia.
The college history courses I attended refined this focus to early modern Europe and Russian revolutionary movements in particular.
My knowledge of late antiquity and the European middle ages was scanty until seminary, when church history courses awakened an interest in what, for me, had truly been 'dark ages'.This, the fourth volume of Durant's monumental history of (mostly western) civilization, takes up and illuminates that neglected period very nicely and in a manner that neophytes, like myself, can appreciate.
The period of time covered is from about 330 AD (Constantin's son) to about 1315 (Dante), and makes the listener understand how the events led to the making of Modern Europe and explains how we get where we are thus adding to my understanding about our place in the universe.Most books that mention the Islamic Civilizations from 650 AD to 1300 just give comic book like characterizations.
In the end, Christian Western Europe allowed philosophy to coexist and will ultimately lead to the "Age of Reason".As I was listening to the second half, I realized that the main character who had not been properly introduced was Dante, but he kept being mentioned.
Will Durant's The Story of Civilization series was one of those sets of books that I wistfully longed for as a child and finally bought for myself some 25-30 years ago--I believed it was related to signing up for the Book-of-the-Month Club--and started in on right away, reading a volume every few years.
Our Oriental Heritage took me the better part of a year, reading off and on, a very long time ago.And, okay, it took me nearly eleven years to finish this volume.
And this time I finished it.However, even though it took more longer than forever to read this volume, I am enjoying this series and Durant's courtly presentation of history.
Many of those of us "of a certain age" have had sets of the Durant's famous history of civilization on our bookshelves for well...decades.
They are as faithful a companion as our music or our quills (remember I did say "Of a certain age") Still, I wonder how many of us have really slowly worked our way through any of the volumes, instead of using them as an Everyman's Historical Almanac?
As usual, I'm overwhelmed by the expanse of the Durants' work, but I am also really captured by their very vibrant storytelling art.
Not just a fine encyclopedia, but a wonderful living document!
This is part of a very readable series that I'm currently reading 9very slowly) over breakfast. It's filling in lots of details in my background knowledge of the Middle Ages, is well written and presents a nice balance between great deeds of great men and daily life of more ordinary folk. It is of it's time - some of the views of women, sexuality, race, religion etc are, well, understandably dated. However because of this the descriptions of the origins of Islam are clearer and more balanced than many more recent accounts.
Wow, there is some much in the book it's amazing. This series mind opening and helps to dispel many false ideas that are being spread about today in popular media about history. One small part of this book covers the history of Islam, the Arab nations where the highest civilization before they where pretty much destroyed by the Mongols. Recommended to all.
قریب یکسال خواندن این جلذ طول کشید حجیم و سنگین با مباحثی جذاب و خواندنی درباره ادیان ریشه های تاریخیو وقایع مهمی که رخ داده سرگذشت سرزمینهای بالکان ایران عهد ساسانی و اتفاقات دوران مسیحی ابتدایی در اروپا
Volume four of the eleven volume 'Story of Civilisation' by Will and Ariel Durant. The volume focuses on medieval history...
From where I sit, The Age of Faith is the best in the series so far.It's been over a year since I read from the Story of Civilization series, and in that time I've forgotten how masterful an author Durant is, especially when reflecting and evaluating on the lessons our history has to offer humanity.
Though state Christianity, in the first flush of power, did damage to the human experience, destroying pagan art and literature, Europe itself recovered -- and did so not by restoring Rome, but by claiming greatness in its own merits.
A truly mammoth work, and one which did much to refine my understanding of the period known as The Dark Ages, or Medieval times.
The dominance of the Catholic Church over all intellectual and social life of the period must also be qualified by the very significant heretical movements, particularly the Albigensians, who presaged Luther and the Reformation with startlingly similar complaints about the worldliness of the Catholic Church.
This was also the age during which Europe's many cathedrals were built: amazing testaments to the depth of their faith and their love of working with their hands.
This means that you really get tired of Will Durant and his writing style by the time you're finished.
Will Durant does his normal good work of chronicling the rise and fall of civilizations, best shown in this book on the section on Islam.
As a history buff I found a few things later historians have disproved, but you can't hate on Will Durant after the simply impossible amount of research he puts into these books.
In general, I wouldn't call this Will Durant's best book.
The fourth volume in Will Durant's magnum opus on the Story of (mostly Western) Civilization, the Age of Faith is a monumental work in its own right.
Spanning from the death of the Emperor Constantine to the publication of Dante's Divine Comedy, The Age of Faith surveys the entirety of medieval civilization in Europe and the Islamic World.
Nevertheless, he is not a European chauvinist, even in this work that celebrates the "journey to Reason." In what may seem obvious to 21st century readers, Durant centers the Islamic World in the story of the medieval West.
Ms Bauer is more politically correct, has more precise knowledge available to her, and she attempts very much more to cover the entire world rather just Europe and those who influenced it; but unfortunately she's likewise a chronicler rather than an explainer, and her chronicle just doesn't possess that spark of life that makes Durant's text a surprisingly compulsive read.
I'm not a scholar; I don't know the ins and out of modern historiography.
I like reading history, and I know what I like.
I like Will Durant.
I like his writing style; he writes incredible and beautiful prose.
I will let scholars go to town on his research; I just know that I like reading his books and find them fascinating for the subject matter and moving for the prose.
Durant is tackling something huge: the immediate aftermath of the fall of the Roman Empire/Byzantium; the rise and successes of Islam; the perseverance of medieval Judaism; and finally medieval Christianity.
While the book is mostly concerned with European history it does contain a superb recounting of the budding and flowering of Islamic civilization.
Another interesting account was that of Judaic civilization and its singular evolution.Apart from the crusades and innumerable wars and intrigues of kings, clergymen and city states, which sometimes appear quite droll from a safe vantage point of some ten centuries, the most memorable section was that on Scholastic philosophy and the Doctors of the Church.
The book closes in the 14th century with Dante, whose Divine Comedy was at once a vicious diatribe of an embittered exile against those who had wronged him in life, aswell as the most complete, though partial, synthesis of Medieval though.
The Age of Faith is the 4th volume in Durant's eleven volume History of Western Civilization.
After the fall of the Roman Empire there was massive "re-ruralization" of the continent and a total collapse of civic order.
For a thousand years after, the Catholic church was ascendant and Durant makes the argument that the rise of faith was made possible by the failure of rationalism (as begun by the Greeks) ultimately to protect Rome from the "barbarians." This volume re-opened my mind to the likelihood that the church, for all of its faults, saved the Western world.
Durant's treatment of the middle ages feels decidedly more fragmented than his books on the Greek and Roman civilizations. This, of course, probably has something to do with how disjointed this period of history was, but it does get a little hard to follow at times. Still, Durant's typically elegant prose shines throughout and one has to admire his fierce dedication to writing this book series.It took me well over a year to finish this thing. At this rate I'll be finished the series in a decade.
The Middle Age and the West Civilization in the MakingThe fourth volume of Will Durant's Story of Civilization covers the Middle Age, with special attention to the Catholic Church and the development of the European States. The narrative flows well except for some war passages. Durant succeeds in pointing the main facts and moments of the Age, a formative period in West Civilization (I'm glad to see that the Author doesn't share the idea that this was a "dark period"). A book worth reading (listening)!
wow, i could never imagine that i will be able to finish this huge book in that short amount of time!it's an amazing book, very informative! i didn't have a clue about how the middle ages effects our modern life and societies, the 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th, and the 13th centuries wasn't static after all.i also didn't know also that the Muslim and Hebrew scholars transmit the Greek knowledge to west Europe.
I love Durant's verse and construct of representation because he proves that history of our civilization was not only wars, killings, conquests and kingships, but a large stew of art, music, science, and other beauties of mere mortal peoples' life. Half way to complete the whole series and I am tireless to continue this long journey.
”The boundary between “medieval” and “modern” is always advancing; and our age of coal and oil and sooty slums may some day be accounted medieval by an era of cleaner power and more gracious life.” page 1082
Fourth volume in Will Durant’s monumental work, entitled ‘Age of faith’ deals with the period roughly between 4th and 12th century.
The title of this book, or rather a trilogy of books, is quite suitable, as the Christian Church is in the center of its focus from the beginning to the end.The scope of ‘Age of faith’ is quite incredible.
Each of those is given its due, but Christianity and Christian Church are definitely in the center of Durant’s story.Author’s writing style, choice of course in his narrative and clarity of thought are as stellar as in previous volumes of this work.
