https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60042.The_Rise_of_the_Creative_Class
I think his heart is in the right place, but, as a member of Florida's vaunted "creative class," I must kindly tell him his theory is fucked.
Much like Thomas Friedman, Florida seems utterly incapable of seeing the world beyond the veil of privilege that protects him and his fellow business gurus from the real world.--Everything is bolstered by spurious quantitative methods without any real qualitative perspective, and even then, the quantitative research seems contradictory, unreliable, and insufficient.--Florida does acknowledge the arguments of those who believe that the current "creative economy" leads to marginalization, but doesn't give them any serious regard.
This book changed my expectations from and about community and society. If there are enough freaks, there won't be a need to conform - and oh MY! There are certainly enough freaks to go around.Seriously, I think the creative class is coming hot on the heels of the industrialized society - I only hope I live long enough to see it really affect the deep south.
A comment from another reader review is both correct and completely irrelevant:"total lack of understanding of the human effects of globalization, almost entirely from an elite privileged perspective, almost completely worthless"Florida's claim that that a growing creative workforce will alleviate perpetuating poverty through low-level service jobs is dubious.
Florida is most convincing when he demonstrates that the United States is in a position where to not foster the creative class is reduce its role as a competitor in the global marketplace.
His premise is sound, and as someone who sees the positive effects of a workplace based on generating creativity from is workers, I think his ideas should be taken seriously by American businesses.

good god. richard florida presents the case that a new "creative class" is emerging in the u.s., which is going to usher in a new era of prosperity and creativity.total lack of understanding of the human effects of globalization, almost entirely from an elite privileged perspective, almost completely worthless.
This book is an example (and there are many) of someone who had an idea good enough for an HBR article (as Florida did write as I recall) but no where near enough info and interesting ideas to produce a 400+ page epistle. I stopped long ago at page 225 and have just decided to give up on ever finishing it. Hint, read his HBR article and you will have everything you need to know.
i liked what one reviewer said--"if only they didn't simply corroborate the well-established idea that the "creative class" is simply a gentrification tool, rather than a sound investment and long-term backbone of a civic identity."the book is fantastic--although the data is soft if using it purely for academic purposes.
on a side note--i read this book several years ago and it seems ironic that now we have plunged into a horrid recession--go "creative class".
but, we creative class folk (i'll include myself here) are often deluded into thinking that work/love/life/passion should be all-in-one.
yeah, it was pretty bad.
it was not as bad as it could've been -- it makes some critiques of precarity which I honestly wasn't expecting -- but ultimately it's a fairly nauseating celebration of the blending of bohemian aesthetics and bourgeois lifestyles.
also LOL at the idea that a job in "high-end sales" is a "core creative industry".
the creative class *is* the old professional class.
there's no change there except in people's ideas of cool, which now arguably have a greater focus on the appropriative consumption of difference.
Out of date thinking about Millennials that may be revived with a solid update (2018).
در فریلند معرفی شد که فریلنسینگ یک موضوع اجتماعی است
These cities were listed among the lowest, and therefore, most lame).I find it quite likely that this book was well received in Austin TX, San Francisco CA, Seattle WA and New York NY (some cities he lists as creative centers for their music, ethnic diversity, youth oriented culture, public outdoor spaces, acceptance of alternative lifestyles, etc.
Perhaps I only agreed with this book's thesis because I work in an industry on the cusp of service and creative class (I'm a chef, you tell me) and live in the city he lists as a harbinger of the new age and economic system.
pretty horrifying. at its best it presents interesting statistics about the work and lifestyle habits of a radically changing work force. but rarely does it ever analyze the consequences or meaning of these figures. it describes the factors of gentrification without really recognizing the fruits of the “creative class” as anything but a productive foeceEDIT: I was immediately inspired to quit my creative class job after reading this book. this book has “changed my life.” I’m working a better job now I guess LOL
The Creative Class is what has risen to take its place and Richard Florida's 'Rise of the Creative Class' documents how it did so, how its impacted cities and towns across the nation, and how your city should adjust if it hopes to have a chance of catching on.
The Creative Class is represented by cities like New York and Chicago, of course, but also Seattle and Austin and Minneapolis.
Places, Florida tells us, that combine the magical Creative Class elixir of technology, talent and tolerance.I don't think I've ever seen myself stereotyped so well.
I might not have enjoyed some of the analysis of “shifts” in the book, but, indeed it changed my personal view and made me conscious of many economic changes, life style shifts, cities growth or decay, clustering the contemporary community and talent management issues. Given all these numeric facts in the book, about the technology, talent and tolerance in various cities it was very pleasant and a true added value (to me).2008كتب تعليقا مطولا بالعربية هنا:http://www.ahmedabdelhamid.com/arblog...2011
An interesting argument pursued around the idea of creativity being just as important as technology and tolerance as a key driver of regional growth. Fatalistic about globalisation leading to manufacturing production jobs going offshore and emphasis is on creating a creative class to attract advanced manufacturing. Potentially overlooks therefore the paradox of periphery regions in former Eastern bloc regions with authoritarian traditions.
I finally gave up about 120 pgs in. I then flipped through the rest, read a bit here and there.There's a few stories about people. A few quotes from other authors. There's the same "stuff" repeated over and over again. A few charts but no real format, thesis or point to be made.Not what I was anticipating or interested in reading.
Didn't actually read the whole thing, but was impressed and intrigued by a chapter on my hometown Pittsburgh and its inability to rise above its industrial culture and attitudes. I see that, always have, and could never put my finger on why Pittsburgh just never felt like the kind of place I wanted to live as a free adult. Of course I still love and long for it...
I agree with most of his ideas.
Carnegie Mellon University professor, Richard Florida provides an astute and extensively researched explanation of the massive cultural shifts in U.S. society over the last 30 years that have caused an entirely new social class to develop: the Creative Class.
The primary premise of Florida's book is that creative work brings the greatest economic benefit to society and distinct geographical regions with superior economic climates are forming around the creative workforce while leaving other areas stuck in the past and struggling to sustain their economies.
Studies strongly showed that talented creative workers were likely to move to regions that had both tolerance and technologically innovative universities and companies.
I found a great deal in this volume to be fascinated by - especially how the author details the rising separation between the economically dominant Creative Class and the Working and Service Classes.
Florida in many cases remains optimistic, I came away from this read feeling a sense of sadness and trepidation in regard to how our society has changed in the High Tech age.
The inclusion elements are great, but the rise of individualism and sense of isolation sadden me.
Если попытаться сформулировать суть книги "Креативный класс"одним предложением, то оно звучит примерно как то так.
Эта книга о том почему определенные города по всему миру имеют свойство становиться некой Меккой и притягивать к себе массы и толпы людей творческих специальностей, в которых расширяются и первые и созидают последние.Одним из ярчайших примеров таких явлений это массовая мировая миграция IT специалистов, программистов, дизайнеров, предпринимателей и им подобным людям творческих профессий в Силиконовую долину, Бостон, Сиэтл и Остин.
Классы, которые наполняют не только маленькие и большие города, а иногда даже целые регионы.
How, you may ask, can I rate a book that I was unable to finish as four stars?
Well, the message was clear--it just wasn't concise (but that's not necessarily the book's fault).
What I didn't realize before I started into this book is that it's really more like a textbook, laden with loads (and loads and loads) of research.A few chapters in, I was convinced that there is, indeed, a "creative class," that it's far more expansive than people think (entrepreneurs and business leaders, for example, can and often are "creatives"), that I want to be inspired by these people and that, to the best of my abilities, I want to be one.
I was able to get most of the gist of this book from an hour long Presentation from Richard Florida on YouTube.
There is also a 2012 revised edition if you are looking for current statistics.
Dr. Florida is a professor, so this book is very academic focused but still very interesting to read.
I read it hoping to learn more about job trends and what the current and especially the future of work will likely look like.
Florida provides a list of cities which are likely to be large hubs for creative people and jobs, but many of them are no surprise to most creative types.
This book offered valuable information to me as an emerging artist. The explanation on how the US economy has shifted since the financial crisis of 2008 helped me to understand and navigate the job market. Richard Florida clearly did extensive research, and refutes counter-arguments made against him in a strong and intelligent way. One critique was that the book was very lengthy and over-written so I ended up skimming over some chapters.
This is sure to be a classic! As someone whose career and life was focused on left brain activity, flexing the right brain muscles do not come naturally to me. Now in the second half of life, I am finding value in putting energy, time and resources into creative pursuits. Society I believe benefits from both. Karen Briscoe, author "Success in 5 Minutes a Day".
I really enjoy Florida's ideas, and the practical philosophy he outlines in this book. But the writing is highly academic, and often forgets the reader, making a somewhat heady concept even harder to grasp.
I am now reading the second re-working of this text to bring the data more up to date. I suggest you skip this version and head to the newest version now available...
Interesting, and worth a read because of its classic status, but I found the book's understanding of economics and class issues quite lacking.
If a visitor from 1900 were plopped into the year 1950 and a visitor from 1950 had the chance to move forward into 2000, who would be the most shocked at the new society he/she would experience? It’s tempting to say the person from 1900 would be the most bowled over because of 1950 technology—cars, airplanes, films, TV, etc., However, author Richard Florida maintains that the 1950 visitor to 2000 would be even more surprised at the “deeper, more persuasive transformations” of the turn-of-the-21
More and more people now demand creative work, and would even opt for a less lucrative job with more creative freedom over a high-paying post with too much structure.
Another interesting concept Florida describes is the modern tendency for people to seek an “experiential lifestyle”—one packed full of intense, high-quality, multi-dimensional experiences.
Florida ends with a charge to creative people everywhere to strive for a cohesiveness that will build more tolerant and productive communities that insist on authenticity in architecture and arts and shun a preponderance of generic strip malls, chain stores, and jaded, outmoded thinking.
That is reason number one why his work appeals to me.The second reason is that I strongly identify myself with his construct of the "creative worker", and in this way he includes me as an essential part of the larger system.
Or they only think of number one."His inclusion of creativity as an element in many different vocations is provocative.
At the same time, he doesn't look to monolithic ideas to make the future more rich, but to a wealth of free-thinking, eclectic individuals.
I find myself willing to look past those here, as the book generates some important concepts.
