https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239388.Just_Me_and_My_Dad
The creature rushing out from the hollow tree made a big impression on me as a kid ;-> I really like the humor and how the text and illustrations work together in telling the story, such as when Little Critter finds a campsite but "someone was already living there" (and said creature angrily shoos them away from his tree).
I also adored the little spider and grasshopper on every page.
All in all, I think this is a nice read for Father's Day or father-child story time, especially if you enjoy camping.
The special bond that a child has with dad is wonderfully portrayed in this heart warming book.
I might be a little bias in my liking for this book because little critter books take me back to good memories from my childhood.
My son has also picked up a liking for little critter and has a few of the interactive book apps on his Kindle Fire.
He especially loves the little mouse that is hidden on most pages.
“Just Me and My Dad” is special because little critter thinks he is taking care of his dad on a camping trip when in reality it is the other way around.
I also appreciate the fact the dad is shown being happy, busy, angry, loving, etc.
I love Little Critter but this one isn't as strong as Just Me and My Mom.
I remember reading a bunch of these when I was younger, so I enjoyed sharing this one with my daughter.This is a wonderful story about a child spending time camping with his dad.
And I like how Little Critter tries to do things to help his Dad out, even if it doesn't go the way that he thought it would.
And I think it is a wonderful book for children to share with fathers.
I know my daughters will enjoy sharing this book with their dad.
" Just Me and My Dad" is one of my favorite Mercer Mayer books! I love this cute story, and I think it's important to have books like this in your classroom library because this could be a typical family situation. This book is simple, so it would be a great one to use for sequencing or even retell with a small group. I would recommend this book for children in kindergarten through second grade.
We love all the little critter books!
Just Me and My Dad was about a little boy and his dad’s escapades while on a camping trip and all the fun they had. The illustrations were well drawn and colorful.
So good! I absolutely loved these little critter books!
Just Me and My Dad (Look-Look) by Mercer Mayer follows a father son camping trip where Little Critter has a good time with Dad, despite some mishaps.Mayer's illustrations extend the humor of the story, with lots of expressive facial features.
My favorite images are driving off, wrong campsite, sunk canoe, fishing, eyes, and story.The text tells one version of the story while the pictures convey the mishaps and fears of Little Critter.
3 star rating.For ages 3 to 7, Little Critter, fathers, sons, family, camping, and fans of Mercer Mayer.
My parents read this book to me when I was a child, and I have a father that has always taken me camping, so this book holds something personal for me.
Now that I am parent, I've been reading this book to my little son almost every night.
Its one of his favorite books, and I too love going camping with my son.
That said, I can surely recommend this book to any father who enjoys camping and likes to read to his son.
In this story, Little Critter goes on a camping trip with his father, leaving his mother and baby sister at home.
The story is narrated from Little Critter's perspective, and his statements contradict the illustrations with a gentle irony that young children will appreciate.
The story could be a perfect preparation for a real camping trip, but is worthwhile to read for its own sake; the father is kind and loving, and the scene is very secure.
This is a gread story about a dad having fun with his son, giving him an exciting experience and teaching him new skills.
This book was used as a guided reading lesson.
I had about 8 scholars in my group.
They each read the book independently.
We broke down sounds together when we chorally read.
They answered an array of questions.
Much of this storyline leaves out parts intentionally for "inference." I asked questions like "why couldn't the boy fix the tent?" "who was really scared at the end of the story though the text suggests that the dad was?" Have fun with it!
Pass out stickers for correct answers.
Ask scholars to stretch it out and tell you using details from the text and image.
I also grew up with this book and loved it!
This is the story about little critter and his camping trip with his dad.
Many things go wrong like they lose their canoe,a have to move camping spots and even lose their dinner because a bear steals it but no matter what happens little critter loves the time that he spends because it is only him and his dad.LE: After the story have a discussion with the children about any trips that they have had with their parents like camping, beach trip, etc.
After you can have a bag with camping equipment and show the children what the equipment is, what its called, and what it is used for.
A classic story that I remember from my childhood.
Like many of my other favorite children's books growing up the pictures have so much detail you can find something new each time you look.
I used to read this with my dad and we'd do stuff like fish together like in the book.
I hope my future husband will read this with my children and my family can have a great experience with this book as I did.I would not necessarily put this in my future classroom.
It just seems like a book you would want a family to share together.
My son in first grade has been reading this book for weeks.
I'm hoping to take my sons camping this summer, so I like this theme.
But we're not going to fish, and a bear isn't going to take our fish.
Bears are dangerous, and this book is a little bit too relaxed on the subject of bears for my taste.
No bears on the east coast where I hike, to my knowledge, but up in the Adirondacks there are.
I hope to take my boys there sometimes.
I like the subject of just being with one son, one on one time.
This book is a wonderful book to curl up with reading with your DAD on Father's Day. We love Mercer Mayer he is so creative.
This book is about time you spend with your dad camping which we love.
Every year our church does a Father/Son camp out, we share time with our dad and love it!!
Fathers are so wonderful, they help mom, make us feel safe and love your always.
We give this book 5 Lollipops and suggest it as a gift for your dad because he will love reading it with you!!
HAPPY FATHERS DAY!!
Just Me and My Dad is a wonderful book about spending the day with just Dad and the adventures they get into. It is a great story about feelings a little one might have about their father ie. disappointment, pride, fear and unconditional love. Mercer Mayer has published over 300 children's books and is possibly best known for his Little Critter and Little Monster book series. Mayer published his first book in 1967 and it was a wordless picture book. In 2007 Mercer Mayer was chosen to be the National Book Festival Artist of the Year.
Mercer Mayer makes so pretty amazing books, I read dozens of them as a kid and loved every single one. This book is a great book for kids to read with their fathers because it has super fun activities that the father and son do together throughout the book and gives us a picture of what a healthy father-son relationship looks like. The illustrations are really cute and every child I've read these books to has fell in love with it the same way I did. I recommend this book to any child, it doesn't have to be a boy.
Little Critter gets to go on a father/sun camping trip. He learns to fish for dinner and how to put up a tent. He makes little mistakes, but dad guides the way when putting the tent up. They also get to sleep under the stars. They spend lots of time together. I like this book because it shows the relationship between a father and his son. I could use this book to teach the children about having a relationship with their parent or caregiver. This book would fit great into a thematic unit about family.
PB:44 Just Me and My Dad. One of my favorite Mercer Mayer books. The illustrations are so detailed and when you re-read the book agagin, you notice the little things like the spider and cricket on practically every page. It makes you go back to your childhood remembering the memories of just hanging out with your Dad which is more difficult to do when getting older. The book will simply make an older adult appreciate their Dad so much more! I recommend this to anybody!
Its a story about a critter and his dad going on a camping trip the adventures as well as misfortunes are described in the story if you are not careful. The important lesson it teaches is while camping we are guests and forest is a place for animals and we have to respect it.Extension- the kids can have tents or even bring in a sleeping bag or their blankets and they can dress in their pj's and read stories and finger games and even take a nap.
This was such a feel- good book! It would be a great book for a father to read to their son. Any little boy who reads this book with their dad is going to want to spend some quality time with them just like the characters within this awesome story.
My son read this to me! Loves to find the spider and grasshopper! Cute book!
Every page consistently has an example of the main character, Little Critter, and his Dad strengthening their bond by doing camping related activities together.
Classroom Integration: As I mentioned above, teachers can use this book to teach a lesson in older primary elementary grades on how to use picture clues to figure out something extra that the text is not directly saying.
Other Suggestions: Due to the relatable nature of the story and characters, this would be an ideal leveled reading book for kindergartners, first graders, or struggling second graders.
I love the nostalgia they represent, but as a parent now I sometimes take issue with Little Critter's less than ideal behavior.
Mercer captured a child's petulant personality perfectly in each of these stories.
I think this book is my personal favorite of the 10 Little Critter books in our current library, and my reasoning is because in this book he is actually working alongside his dad to have a successful camping/father-son bonding trip, rather than engaging in his usual internal monologues on how his parents are messing up his plans.
Oh, and he LOVES the bear in this story.
"Just Me and My Dad" is a cute father-son story about Little Critter who goes camping and fishing with his dad.
There are few words and mostly pictures in the book, which is good for little ones who like to look and point.
It's really almost better just to look and describe/discuss the pictures when going through the story, as they have a lot going on in them.
I think this book is better for the nostalgia (as I and others probably read these when we were little) and colorfulness of the pictures than the content.
A sweet tale about a boy and his dad going camping together.Ages: 4 - 7Cleanliness: mentions telling ghost stories.**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website: The Book Radar.
classic!
lily summer reading 2018, children's book, picture book, series, little critter, father's
