https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/788331.He_She_and_It
The incorporation, though it enriches the text greatly in terms of layers, it tries too hard to make those connections.For instance, Yod, the machine that acquires consciousness and tries gradually to comprehend the complexity of human emotions, says at a point to Malkah,“You are embedded in history in a sense I cannot be.”,directly alluding to Haraway when she argues that “The cyborg does not dream of community on the model of the organic family, this time without the oedipal project.
Piercy wrote this book in 1991, and I know of many changes since then that have brought us much closer to the type of life that she imagined.But the book is not just about how people caused the planet to fall apart, it is also about what happens between people themselves after all the chaos.
I do know that the episode when the Golem was brought to life was the most intense, spine-tingling few pages I have read in a very long time.
Abandoned. I just didn't connect with this at all. Didn't care for the writing or the characters. Largely a matter of personal taste because objectively there's nothing much wrong with either but I can't be bothered to slog through all its futuristic jargon.
Jewish girl in dystopian future meets cyborg, and falls in love.
Jewish girl in 1600s Prague meets golem, and falls in love.
When her husband is awarded sole custody of their son in a bitter divorce, Shira goes to live with her grandmother in the Jewish free zone and falls in love with the illegal cyborg created to defend the zone.The second story, told by the grandmother, follows a the daughter of a rabbi in the Jewish ghetto of 1600s Prague.
Fearing for the lives of his community, the rabbi creates a golem to defend the ghetto.
As the story opens, Shira, an employee of the Yakamura-Stichen (Y-S) corporation has divorced her husband and lost custody of her son, Ari. Devastated, Shira returns to her original home in Tikva, a free Jewish town.
There she lives with her beloved grandmother Malkah - a whiz at designing protective computer technology, and takes a job with Avram - a scientist who has created a humanoid cyborg called Yod, designed to protect the townsfolk from corporate raiders and assassins who want to co-opt its technology.
Much of the story revolves around Yod, who develops desires and emotions - essentially becoming more of a person - as he works with Malkah, Shira, and other townspeople.
A friend loaned this to me, telling me one of her profs had told her it was cyberpunk, and she hadn't been enthralled with it.
I've read at least one other Marge Piercy, and for the most part, enjoyed this one, although there were some issues that I've seen in both books so far that I'll get to in a minute.
Is this really cyberpunk?
But instead, I would classify as a late entry into that genre of feminist science fiction that flourished in the 1970s and 1980s.
In this case, Jewish socialist feminist science fiction.
You can read why I came to this decision here.
In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
2 stars because while the idea isn't bad, I found that it was easy to get myself lost in all the Jewish terms sprouting in the in-between, and I felt lost with lots of the dystopian information which were sort or given randomly at times.
Also, the pace was agonizingly slow, IMO.There is a woman who asks for a divorce and the custody of her child gets given to the father.
We get a lot of remmebrances of her past dalliances with a man called Gabi, the father of which offers her a job back at her more matriarchal home.
Strong women, engaged and accomplished women, women who don't faint or puke while staring down an enhanced security ape.
Riva, Shira's mother is the Maiden, dedicated to her work, detached from emotional entanglements, not motivated by glory or attention but by the need for community and individual freedom.
The reader, on the fast train of a fascinating story can look out the window and wonder what's the difference between a mechanically enhanced human, and a machine that can learn and grow?
Piercy's gift is to narrate a great tale, and trust that her audience will exercise their brains examining the story afterward, and share some good conversation about the book with friends.
"You really took revenge on me. You really did."
She also soon finds that her grandmother and the father of one of her childhood friends are working on something mysterious and fantastical: a robot that looks, talks thinks and feels exactly like a person, but has superhuman physical and mental abilities.This robot, who is named Yod (a letter in the Hebrew alphabet; Aleph through Tet were his predecessors, all but one scrapped because of horrible, sometimes deadly, flaws), might be the most interesting character in this novel.
Unfortunately, Shira Shipman isn't one of them --- that's the biggest thing that disappointed me about this book, that practically all of the real-time narration is done by the most boring character.
One of my favourite SF books of all time. Time to re-read. That sexism is alive and well and rife in literary culture is proved by the fact that Body of Glass isn't more famous than anything by William Gibson, for example, though I see it did at least win an Arthur C Clarke award. This is published in the US under the truly dreadful title He, She and It. Also worth checking out Woman on the Edge of Time. Classic 1970s feminist utopia, with, if I remember correctly, a rather good dystopia as well.
I don't know where I got this book as sci-fi is not the genre I usually read and with a title of "He, She and It" I didn't expect much of it.
I was vastly surprised when I found myself reading about the Maharal of Prague.
I had heard stories about the Golem but didn't know too much.
One of my sons has been to Prague and to the Altneushul.
Even if the Golem is not a true story I am very honored that one of my sons has stood and prayed in the same synagogue as the Maharal.
Much of the book is not set in Prague or the past.
I guess I'm going through a robot loving stage.
Well the job is to acclimate a cyborg named Yod. Her grandmother has inputted feelings and they end up becoming lovers.
I really enjoyed the book EXCEPT for the grandmother's telling a story about a golem in the 1600s to Yod online.
I guess they are a morality tale, but I got that through the main story and didn't need it again in the story within the story.
I'm giving this book 3.5 stars but would have given it 4 stars if the author had completely removed the golem story.
It's a world that is part cyberpunk, part post-apocalypse, but with a little more organic warmth to be found.It is in this world that Piercy sets a re-telling of the golem story, alongside a very detailed and elegant rendition of the original tale.The main character, Shira, has just lost her son in a custody settlement manipulated by her corporate employers.
Interspersed with the main story is Piercy's version of the original golem story, as told to Yod by Malkah, who made major contributions to his programming.
so in some ways the novel feels more dated than 1991, but in other ways the author has done an admirable job of predicting the future and the book still feels relevant today.
the author has also introduced a timeless element by interjecting the Prague story line and the creation of the Golem to protect the citizens of the Jewish ghetto.
so i will blithely go on reading and enjoying, He, She and It. it seemed to take me a long time to get finished this book.
i wasn't a fan of the second story line.
The robot has opinions, makes conversations, and has sex (as a male).This book also foretold the rise of the Internet.
Then again, Orwell got this, too, even earlier.But more so than it predicts "the future," it looks at the potential opportunities, pitfalls, and philosophical problems in relationships between humans and robots.“How do you feel when you see such a mechanism?
“Do you feel a sense of kinship when you eat telapia?”“Why should I?”“You’re as closely related biologically to that fish as I am as a mechanism to that cleaning robot.
I started He, She, and It on spring break and finally finished it today, but I'm glad I could savor this novel over three months because it is fabulous.
Marge Piercy writes a cyberpunk novel that doesn't ignore women, religion, ethnicity, community.
The razor-girl character, Nihi, is a queer, community oriented mother revision of the archetype started by Molly from Neuromancer.
Unlike hard scifi authors, we don't need to stretch to find Piercy's lefist politics that don't sacrifice a gender or race analysis in critiquing capitalism.
I re-read this book after many years, and I had to struggle with myself not to give it five stars.
Reading science fiction set in a world where Hebrew names, Jewish culture, and Jewish history are basics is exhilarating.
Plus I care deeply about the issues of the book: gender, power and its abuse, the meaning of love and loyalty.It also amazes me how well Piercy could imagine the internet, virtual reality, and ecological devastation, writing more than a quarter-century ago.
I would gladly have spent even more time with Malkah, listening to her stories and hoping for her caresses.The writing itself is not up to Piercy's poetic best.
This was a brilliantly written and brilliantly conceived book - I am a fan of Marge Piercy's poetry, but not as big a fan of her novels - never was able to get into her most famous novel Woman on the Edge of Time.
It was given to me to read by a graduate school friend of mine, and I found myself drawn into the story immediately.
At the heart of this novel, for me, is the concept of grappling with what exactly makes us human.
This is a story that I hope to teach, along with Atwood's The Handmaid's Tale, in my next Literature by Women course.
Absolutely fantastic book. Deep and layered and fascinating cyberpunk/morality/romance. Hard to describe but worth the read, a classic for sure!
In reality, this is a very good sci-fi book, well-constructed and with an interesting premise, and the romance is just an element of the story.The feminist part was very nice in some points and not so good in others.
Because of this type of thing, the feminist argumentation embedded in the text fell somewhat flat.Gadi's character was another problem for me.
The problem isn't really that such a character exists, and I am well aware that there are real people who are just like that, but it's the treatment the book gives him: his behavior is never truly condemned.
There is no small irony (or pun?) in saying that what struck me as most moving was the humanity at the center of this book.I really don't want to go on about this one, in part because I want to savor my feelings about this book for a while, but mainly because I've been taking expansive notes on this text as I read, and to start would be to not stop any time soon.
So, I'll pick up the next book and head to bed, but I won't soon forget this one.
You know when you have a toffee that starts off hard and impenetrable and slowly it warms up and becomes chewier and chewier and moorish and compelling until you are desperate not to swallow it because then it ends? Anyway yeah, that. When people say fans of Margaret Atwood would enjoy this, what they mean is, Margaret Atwood wishes she wrote this. Stick with it for at least 100 pages, doesn’t disappoint. Feminist dystopian sci fi wowie 😍
So nice to read feminist sci-fi (with a golem added in). I gobbled this one up with pleasure
I think that Malkah is an incredibly interesting character, especially the representation of her free sexual nature, and I love that Piercy created an older female character like Malkah while still acknowledging how human men consider older women ‘sexless’ and unattractive.
Also, the Jewish tale that she tells Yod is fascinating and her first person perspective was enlightening when Shira was struggling in the novel.Other strong female characters include Riva, Shira’s mother, who is fighting for the freedom of information and Nili, a biotechnologically enhanced woman who is basically an Amazonian warrior.
When he later relocates to an orbital facility, completely cutting her off from her son, she moves back to her hometown of Tikva and finds that her grandmother Malkah has helped work on an illegal cyborg named Yod, designed to help protect Tikva from being assimilated by the megacorps.
As Joseph the Golem says in Malkah's story:I am not a man, but I am a Jew.The book is the best when it leans into this blurring of barriers.However, it certainly doesn't take that approach with gender roles, and that's evident from the very beginning.
Whether using mystical chanting or technology, humans do NOT have the right to create beings and use them as slaves.YOD is my favorite character, although Malkah comes in at the top as well.
Their connection meant much more to me than the rather contrived relationship YOD comes to have with Shiva.
For me, the whole substory of Gadi, Yod, and their sexual relationships with Shiva could have been omitted.
If Gadi had simply been removed from the whole story, I'd have given the book a 4.
Only when YOD was in the picture did the book come alive for me--how ironic, since he is not CONSIDERED "alive".
Written in early 90s and set 70 years later in late 2050s, the first 50 pages have shown me in the essence exactly zero speculation as to what future would be like, zero society development, zero curiosity of mind from the author.
The author creates this stereotypical/archetypical wife and mother and tries to colour her a little with a "well, she has a job".Sorry, not buying it - we manage to find out about her despair about lost custody for her son, we manage to have the full scope of her reasoning to enter a completely unhealthy and dysfunctional marriage, yet we fail, time after time, to have a clear understanding of her line of work?
All at once, you are reading a techno-futurist utopian science fiction novel, a love story between a woman and a cyborg which touches on existential questions about what it means to be human and machine, a story of the struggles faced by Jewish people throughout time, a meditation on growing older, criticism of masculinity and a celebration of femininity, the bonding of women between generations, and more that I'm not mentioning.
She writes feminism as a fact, not as a future goal or a current struggle; and that enables her to explore social and community dynamics in a deeper way.In this story she merges the religious with the scientific by telling two stories that parallel one another: a story of a golem created by holy rite to patrol and protect the Jewish people during a dangerous and revolutionary shift of thought in Prague, and the story of a robot created by a forward thinking scientific mind in efforts to protect his independant community's base (read physical and digital) from the multicorps that run the show in the future.
So she heads home to her little independent community to be with her grandma (the lady that programmed the social factors into Yod) and there our story begins.It took me a longer time to read than a book this size normally would.
