https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133445.The_Edible_Woman
I had no idea where I was going, I had not a dollar bill on my person, but still I ran from him (and I think I recall screaming LOSER all the way).By the time the concert had ended, I was waiting for the party by the limo, a crumpled Saxon with no ride and nowhere left to run.Three months later our relationship was officially over, I had my first Margaret Atwood novel in my hands, and I experienced the pleasure of meeting Marian McAlpin.
A novel of major creepy power.
Very different from her latter books, "The Edible Woman" is about the destructive power of man-woman relationships and it takes place in a world of robotic emotions and mechanical compulsions (not too far off from the Victorian variety!).
The novel, a true avantgarde sociosexual depiction, borrows its demonic tone from Hawthorne, its cinematography from Cronenberg, its absurdism from David Lynch.
In "The Edible Woman," bearded men act like giant babies, a woman can be metaphorically & literally eaten, and all the young men and women are desperate and yearning to fill up their counterparts' role according to society and history.
Margaret Atwood’s prescient first novel still offers lots to chew onMarian, a 20-something woman in 1960s Toronto, gets engaged to her dull-but-respectable lawyer boyfriend, Peter, then soon begins losing her appetite for food.
Perhaps she doesn’t want to submit to this marriage, after all.This was Margaret Atwood’s first novel, and besides the funny and insightful writing, the book was way ahead of its time.Atwood wrote it in the early-to-mid-60s, and because of a publishing snafu it wasn’t published until 1969.
She’s alienated from herself.And the secondary characters are all highly amusing, from the forthright Ainslie to Marian’s co-workers – dubbed “the office virgins,” all sporting dyed blonde hair – to Duncan, a boyish grad student who’s everything Peter isn’t.
For Marian, eating any food at all becomes a sort of cannibalism.However, I wish that this is what the novel actually is.
Instead, most of this novel is just us following Marian as she goes to work, or visits to the launderette, or goes from door to door asking people to fill out surveys.
Thankfully Atwood created the character of Ainsley, Marian's flatmate, who decides that she wants to have a baby but only so she can raise it herself away from the damaging influence of a father figure.
Due to these kind of themes throughout the novel, Atwood has referred to the book as a proto-feminist work.
In the first sex scene in The Edible Woman, which is rich in messages and metaphors, Peter decides he wants to have sex in the bathtub.
A woman.” In the end, Marian breaks her engagement and tries to feed Peter a cake she made to look like herself, claiming that he wants to devour her.
Unlike Monica and Rachel, who binge eat when they are upset, Marian responses to problems in her relationship by starving herself.
before Ohhh this book is like my favorite hoodie—threadbare and falling apart but so so soft and comfy, with all those little stains and patches as sweet reminders of long ago.
Love love love love this book...after Well yes, I do love this book as much as ever, but I was actually kind of surprised at how different it was from the last time I read it, oh, five or six years ago.
(I've easily read this ten times.)2.
5. Also, I remembered being totally on Marian's side when she goes sort of crazy, but this time she really did seem a bit more hysterical, a bit less a victim of oppressive and destabilizing circumstances.6.
What is her subconscious trying to tell her?Atwood is a writer who amazes me every time I read her; it really is hard to categorize her writing.
I enjoyed the first half of the book a lot more than I did the second.
The second half seemed a bit too rushed to me.One thing I found interesting was how different things were in the 1960s, when this book was written.
Also, feminism has changed the ways in which women think; for example, after marriage, a woman isn't expected to quit her job and stay home.
It was only until the main character (Marian) started to think strange thoughts and act totally nutty that I started to get really engrossed in the story and characters.-I didn't like Marian whatsoever, she was passive, irritating and all round doormat.
I would usually get bored with characters that were constantly bitchy and mean, but for some reason I didn't mind it in Marian, I think the writing was just that good.-I couldn't sympathise or relate to Marian at all when it came to her home, work, and love life.
Υπόθεση: Η Μάριαν κάνει μια δουλειά που δεν την ενθουσιάζει (από την οποία όμως δεν βλέπει έξοδο δια
The story is about Marian, an ordinary young woman who works for the advertising section of an enterprise, and leads an equally ordinary life, until two things, apparently disconnected, happen: her boyfriend, Peter, asks her to marry him and she discovers she is no longer able to eat - first meat, than even vegetables.
This is an interesting book that deals with the theme of femininity.
I liked the foreword a lot in which Margaret Atwood explains that she actually wrote this book before femininity became a subject for discussion in society.
Marian is a funny, and at times frustrating, character who doesn't really know what she wants.
I quite liked this book because it was funny, relevant and very interesting.
I do think that the book tended to get slightly boring at times, mostly because Marian's life and thoughts weren't hugely interesting at all times.
El porqué del título cuando lo ves reflejado en el libro es genial.
si al final no te va a servir de nada.Contra todo esto empieza a rebelarse la protagonista y lo hace de una manera muy peculiar.La parte final me ha gustado mucho y tiene mucha miga y mucho simbolismo.
El personaje de Duncan es el que menos he entendido de todos, me ha dejado muy descolocada, porque tiene momentos bastante odiosos.
Es una novela para leer con más gente y comentarla, por que se le puede sacar mucha sustancia.
Clara seems to have receded into herself as her fate is sealed, she has given up the chance to study and has ‘settled’ for the only other option and therefore must be happy!Marian also has a flatmate, Ainsley who is far from the blue eyed innocent that she would at first appear to be.
Later on he was quite angry when not in control and this gave a preview of what married life with him would be like.The funniest part of the book by far for me was the dinner that Marian was invited to by Duncan, Trevor and Fish!
La clave para la falta de rebelión y cuestionamiento está en saberlo vender con colores alegres, confeti y serpentinas.Tomando como punto de partida los temas que se tratan en la novela e intercalando ejemplos reales intentaré poner de manifiesto que no solo no estamos en el Canadá descrito por Atwood en esta novela, en términos de igualdad de género, sino que incluso hemos retrocedido.1.- La mujer como objeto sexual y la violencia que se ejerce sobre ella.Aparece esta idea cuando Marian debe huir despavorida de un viejo baboso a quien está haciendo una encuesta en su domicilio cuando casi se le tira encima.
The problem is that it took 130 pages to establish Marian's initial sense of self and to begin the unraveling process, another hundred pages to complete the shift from an independent woman to consumed woman, and yet another fifty pages of passive sniveling before we are finally brought back to Marian, first-person and in charge.
A woman's loss of identity isn't a switch flipped in the night, but a long and painful effect caused by traditional roles.
Within Marian's central story, there are many minor characters that also serve to illuminate the same concepts regarding gender roles and stereotypes.
It's definitely the kind of book I want to sit down and discuss...
On to my quest to read more Margaret Atwood, I hit my first obstacle.
I can’t say it was a bad book, I enjoyed the character but I did not enjoy the story.
Because there wasn’t much of it.
Instead, this book was a commentary about femininity.
I could call it a feminist novel but as Margaret herself says in the foreword of this book she wrote it before the movement even started.
It’s sad how much of what the character of this book has to deal with in the book is still just as relevant and understandable today.
On the whole this wasn’t the best of Margaret's.
I originally picked up this book because of its title and because I wanted to check out some Atwood--admittedly, this is my first time reading her.
The main character is so honest and real that I often forgot throughout the book that she was being consumed the whole time.
I love the balance between feminine power and the loss of power in this book, present in Marian, her friend Ainsley, and her friend Clara.
Despite these women feeling like they have power over the situation, they don't realize how they fall into the masculine societal norms.
Do you like books that are clever and witty and sharp and tear apart social structures and relationship expectations like there's no tomorrow?
The main character Marian finds herself in a perfectly fine relationship with her fiancé Peter, but there's just something she can't stomach about normal life as a couple...*I can't take credit for that pun, it's on the back of the book!*.The characters in The Edible Woman are all purposely insufferable, although I did quite like Marian, especially in the first part when the narrative was in the first-person.
This is Atwood's first book, published in 1969.
It's full of feminist ideas but it's so dated it was hard to get my head around it.
A woman who is so normal that everyone thinks she's the most normal person they know, is about to get married.
She feels that she's losing her identity and finds that she can't eat certain types of food.
I notice there are several study guides to this book, but I refuse to read any of them.
It has a charming and unsettling Alice in Wonderland quality and I think I'd rather enjoy it for that.
I expected to like it but kept deciding I didn't and a page or two later decided that maybe it was ok after all.
Even Duncan who was I think meant to be a little more real and honest than the others,[he always told you after he lied] wasn't really a character I liked in any way.From a social history aspect it was interesting, particularly the attitude to women which is one of the themes of the book.
I can see why people like it and there are many themes would be interesting to discuss.
Enjoyed Han Kang's The Vegetarian but found it too short/strange/dark? Just read this!
I'm confused. Who was the target audience here? I know I wasn't, just now reading it, but I mean back when the book came out. Who was it for?It's a very good book for a first novel but I still don't quite understand Atwood. Who is she writing for?I like the way her stories enfold but especially in this one there was way too much description and the story enfolded too slow. It wasn't particularly interesting but it wasn't a complete bore either.
The Edible Woman was her first novel -- I think it was written in the late 60s or early 70s -- and was the first book of hers that I really fell in love with.
Marian graduated from college and drifted into a job, a boyfriend, and a holding pattern, then got engaged to the suave Peter, a pretentious git who really just wanted a trophy, not a life partner.
Between the engagement and the imminent wedding, she meets Duncan, who seems to be Peter's complete opposite -- a never-ending graduate student (in English, ha ha) who writes a sentence a day of his thesis and likes to hang out in laundromats.
I found the book to be a slow read and, like many others, I enjoyed the metaphors that were heavily sprinkled throughout the story that paralleled the lives of Marian and Ainsley.
I found this to be a story of two women who think they know what they want, but doubt themselves, and their circumstances.
I don’t think she knows what she wants, but subconsciously she doesn’t want to spend her life with Peter.
Marian is attracted to that, but Duncan will not have her in the way she wants, in a relationship.
You can read our review here -- http://storypals.net/book-report-edib...
Unusual, surreal, domestic horror story. I found it really engrossing and relevant. (view spoiler)[(Was Duncan imaginary?) (hide spoiler)]
When I left my husband, after almost four years of a miserable marriage, I was stuck in our shared house for three months before I found a new home for myself and our one year old son.
There it is!" The feelings that Marion struggled with, of being eaten alive by an expectation, of being drowned in the repetitive motions of a hollow relationship, of swallowing a comment that may upend a delicate balance; I knew those thoughts, and they were what I was trying to pull out of my head and pin to a page in the months that I listened to very familiar footsteps pace the other end of the house.
Why, because she was unable to recognize that Peter was overpowering her and she loved freedom and this effected psychologically on her eating.
But truly, Margaret Atwood’s story is very imaginary, like an afternoon-nap-dream which is hard to make out and leaves you dizzy!!
Her way of story telling is quite different as well.
For instance, here the first part of the story starts with Marian as the narrator.
But the second part is continued in third person narrative and yet again part three is narrated by Marian herself!?!
Marian is happy enough with her boyfriend Peter and gradually drifts into an engagement with him – but she can’t stop thinking about Duncan, an apathetic graduate student whom she met during her survey rounds and ran into again at the laundromat.
I can’t say I particularly enjoyed the novel, though I liked the food metaphors and laughed at the over-the-top language about babies and pregnancy.Originally published on my blog, Bookish Beck.
I'm a longtime fan of Atwood's writing and in this first novel, The Edible Woman, both the voice and themes of later Atwood are in evidence.Marian, a college graduate, new to the working world and at the threshold of of being an adult woman in mid-60's Canadian society - that is, finding a suitable man for marriage and babies - is living with her roommate Ainsley, whose attitudes and actions go against the current Marian feels herself being swept away by.
Step by step, she finds herself drawn closer to marriage and family but without any feeling of certainty that this path is what she truly wants.
