https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116114.From_Here_to_Eternity
Because, even as I think that a good editor could have cut the text in half and still achieve the same effect, I know that James Jones has captured the spirit of army life in the 1940's flawlessly, that the ocean of trivial details from the lives of trivial people builds up into a monumental canvas of a whole society : Hawaii on the brink of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbour.I didn't know what to expect beforehand, as I steered away from the movie version until I could read the book.
For years this has just been that "super-long WWII novel about Hawaii during Pearl Harbor" that I knew was supposed to be good but never could bring myself to read.
This is historical fiction that is much different than other "WWII novels"....it goes deep into characters with no historical significance, with plot with no historical significance, that you walk away from feeling like you understand that time more than any other book you've read from that period.It was interesting, yet not surprising, when I read in the afterward that the book From Here to Eternity beat out for the National Book Award in 1951 is another great character study of that decade: The Catcher in the Rye. Frankly, I think this one is better (though you can read The Catcher in the Rye five times in the time it takes to read From Here to Eternity).
Hell of a book. Feminist characters. Cuckolded husbands (actually, everyone gets cuckolded). Homosexuals debating (at length) the nature of their sexual orientation. Proto-Hippie gurus. Non-conformist rebels. And, an Army story in there somewhere too. Must've been very heady stuff for 1951! I can't believe it was even published back then. Great book. Great summer read. Could've used less "grinning". Oh yeah- (not to make too much of an understatement) if you've seen the film you've really only scratched the surface of the story. Highly recommended if you liked the movie.
An epic read and an epic story.
It was well worth the effort.I’d always had a hankering to read this book, purely for the fact that Frank Sinatra was obsessed with getting a role in the movie of the same title, to revive his (then) flagging career.
I was surprised at how much I enjoyed this book, and how believable I found the characters to be.
The fact that there was a sizeable portion of the book which included the female perspective, was also a facet I wasn’t expecting, and it added to the “realness” of the story.
Not this book, which is in my view a complete waste of time, but the whole concept of the middlebrow novel, a genre that has disappeared.
With regard to middlebrow novels in the mid-20th Century it was taken for granted at the time that the family living space, a purely mental construct in which the novel reader and her family lived and loved and had their being, was, like the physical house itself, a boundaried space.
Just as was true for the inside of the actual physical house, the local mental space, the "here", of course required cleanliness and protection from all the negative things in the outside "there".
I have had the book on the shelf for probably close to 30 years,and never read it till now.
I need to rewatch the movie again now...this book is great.....I enjoyed it,and it went into a lot more details about the characters lives, then any movie ever could,and it was heavy on the military life, and what it's like to be a soldier in those days.
I may read those some day.....and if I decide to , I won't wait another 30 years.Enjoy the book first before you see the film...and if you've seen the film in years past...enjoy the book first.....the character development is top notch,and you really get a feel for the characters, much more in depth.
On one side of the extreme, Sgt. Warden exemplifies the rewards that society bestows upon those that adhere to its rules while also depicting the parts of our humanity that we must give up (or have taken away) while achieving society’s expectations.Pvt. Prewitt exemplifies the other extreme.
Prewitt desires the collective warmth but cannot deny his true self.
Warden desires to live as his true self but cannot give up the rewards that society has bestowed upon him.
Like the consummate author of a thriller, Jones plants the question of the scene first: Will Angelo escape or be arrested or killed?; Will Prewitt murder the guard or die trying?; Will Alma marry him?; Will Warden be caught having the affair or enjoy the vacation?; Will he become an officer and marry her or remain a gentlman-ranker and be damned from here to eternity?
Being an American not a European, James Jones focusses not on the officers but on the "30 year men" who serve in the enlisted ranks.
When the Japanese attack, Prewitt feels compelled to return to fight with his comrades but is killed by a sentry as he approaches the base.First Sgt. Warden seduces to the wife of the officer persecuting Prewitt.
The picture of the military life as described to me by my father who was in the war time air force and by two uncles who were career or "30 year" enlisted men like Prewitt and Warden corresponds very closely to the army life described in this book.
Now I know why this story looks so familiar to me: a movie was made based on this booK: From Here to Eternity (1953) with Burt Lancaster, Montgomery Clift, Deborah Kerr.From IMDb:In 1941 Hawaii, a private is cruelly punished for not boxing on his unit's team, while his captain's wife and second in command are falling in love.
Jones, like so many others, was a refugee from the bread line.Enlisting in 1939, he left a stormy home life.
He can find nothing prouder than to be a Thirty Year Man. The Army gives him his dignity.
The novel also has another Thirty Year Man, a decent type who successfully plays the game.
If politics force compromise, then get out of the Bugle Corps.Jones himself chose an unconventional life.
But he took the Army home with him and, like Prewitt, remained a Thirty Year Man for the rest of his life.
So long as there is an Army there will always be a James Jones.
My impetus for reading this came via an odd, circuitous route - I was listening to the recently shuttered, flop London musical based on the novel, and read that it, in turn, incorporated material from the uncensored, restored version of the book that had only been published a few years previously.
It is sad few people read Jones nowadays - he was an American original, and this National Book Award winning novel should be rediscovered, especially in this uncensored version, as Jones originally intended it.
Obviously they didn't read "Battle Cry" by Leon Uris or "Once An Eagle" by Anton Myrer and a whole host of other books that I found to be much better reads.
I'm all about setting the scene and giving the reader a real since of what the character is feeling.
But when page after page is devoted solely to, for example, how the sound of a bugle makes a guy feel, it's just too much.
What little dialogue there was I enjoyed.
It was just so little in between so much, for lack of a better word, crap.
How can a book about war, with no war in it, be so damned compelling? This is a total masterpiece.
Men who were poor, poorly educated, or poor of spirit had few choices in the early 20th century.On an Army base in Hawaii, in the early weeks of 1941, Robert E Lee 'Prew' Prewitt is a helluva fighter and the "best bugler in the Regment [sic]." Although only twenty-one, he had lived 'on the bum' for years.
'Dynamite' Holmes is determined to teach Prew the error of his ways.What follows is a portrait of military life on Hawaii in the months leading up to Pearl Harbor, and the shocked and shocking days that came after.
Many veterans who have read Mr. Jones's novel assert it was an accurate portrayal of the times in the Army.
The novel revolves two major characters, Robert E.
The two major women characters Karen Holmes and Alma "Lorene" Schmidt are well developed but take a back seat to Prewitt's and Warden's stories.
I had to keep reminding myself that most of them were young immature men.The novel was published in 1951.
It was understandable that the publishers originally edited out some of the more unseemly material because of the American market's more puritanical sensibilities.
This really floored me, in light of "don't ask, don't tell" and how far we've come in gay rights just in the past ten years, to see someone in WWII be so frank about what was sooooo taboo then.I don't want to do a dis-service to this book, though, by focusing on what is really just one small part.
It's very philosophical in tone, too, and it makes me see why a philosophical filmmaker such as Terrence Malick chose to make another of Jones' books into a movie.
I am giving up at 152 pages. Close to 20 pages of a poker game held in the latrine, complete with slang that I don't understand and the clash of male egos, plus nearly a whole chapter lamenting the lack of funds to visit a brothel -- I just can't keep on. Jones' writing is wordy and bloated, even more so than Stephen King's. On to something more to my taste! Note to self: stop trying to read classics, modern or otherwise, or books on any kind of "must read" list.
Each character is believable and understandable, and that makes some brutal events in the book have that much more impact.
Having finished this yesterday, I know I'll carry the memory of these characters around for a long time - they feel so much like they were actual people.I can understand how From Here to Eternity may not have universal appeal, but for me, this was a magnificent read.
I have an appreciation for and perspective of peacetime Army life that I didn't before.
And maybe people in general.
Read about "From Here to Eternity" this morning in Joan Didion's essay "In the Islands" from The White Album. A good discussion and excerpt of the essay: https://www.sheilaomalley.com/?p=55284
I could have read it in far less than the 5 months it actually took me, if I hadn't kept putting it down and picking up more interesting books.James Jones can be a very good writer, but not as good as he thought (or others thought) he was.
I hated the blatent overuse of adverbs, "she had very wide eyes that looked at him serenely openly." I never really liked any of the characters.
Jones seems to think that love cannot exist without contempt (romantic love, love for a buddy, love for the army, love for oneself...) And that is perhaps why I really resisted reading this book.
Even if you have seen the movie you don't know the full story.
In fact the version I read (on Kindle) is a restored version with all the cut words and passages that 1950's censors would not allow for publication.
Character development was incredible and to me that was the book's strongest feature.
Jones allows the reader to see the heart and the soul of the main characters.
The story is based on Jones' personal experience in Hawaii in the US Army and ends with the bombing of Pearl Harbor.
This book is the first in a WWII trilogy.
The beginning was a bit slow.I almost abandoned the book, but hung in there.WOW. Great book in the end!!!Closest book like this I can think of is "A Prayer for Owen Meany"BTS: Stockade scenes were actual events from personal experience from the author.
That Kiss. And this one.Lemme take a breath; OK breathe...............Whoa, what a kiss of fiction this was Some books are worth the hype, some kisses worth waiting for What a behemoth, what a forever. Read it, army brats or otherwise.This is for all.
I nowadays rarely read novels but did this one after seeing the film The Thin Red Line and reading various reviews of James Jones novels. I could not put this down. Wonderful story and great writing that had me loving every word and moment.
"From Here to Eternity" is the first title of Jones' "War Trilogy." "The Thin Red Line", released about ten years later, tells the experience of an army infantry unit trying to survive the death trap of Guadalcanal.
"Whistle", released after Jones' death in 1977, relates the story of G.I.'s sent back home on a hospital ship, trying to recuperate at a stateside hospital while having trouble coping with their wartime memories.You can look for the characters in "From Here to Eternity" in the second and third books in the trilogy, but you won't find them, at least not literally.
Though it seemed like it took an eternity to finish FROM HERE TO ETERNITY by James Jones (I'll be here all week, folks!), it had nothing to do with the book and more with the time I dedicated to it.Truth be told, this is an absolutely beautiful novel.
It is original and it is insightful, allowing a glimpse into the male psyche and the life of a soldier that had never been viewed before and has not been viewed sense, at least not with the same mastery of prose, beautiful imagery, or brutal honest in which Jones lays it out for the reader.
Es en esa categoría donde ahora quiero enchufar From here to eternity.En las primeras páginas identifiqué a Prewitt como un soldado raso con un perfil muy romántico: un pobretipo, neciamente fiel a su propio código (abandonó el boxeo porque una vez hirió permanentemente a un amigo por accidente), que no termina de pegarla ni profesionalmente ni amorosamente y termina pasando noches de sábado dando vueltas por la base con 20 centavos en el bolsillo...
Mi sección favorita es la que transcurre en la "empalizada" (una prisión militar): ahí es donde Prewitt encuentra un frente de rebeldía en el ejército, y donde se llevan a cabo los enfrentamientos más espectaculares del libro.
“From Here to Eternity,” by James Jones, is an unusual novel in that its subject is life in the military, not during war, but in peacetime.
His inflexibility leads him to lose a choice position as bugler over a personal insult, refuse to join the company boxing team (leading to a coordinated campaign of abuse from the company NCOs), and eventually to a brutal military prison as the result of being framed by those same NCOs. All of this takes place on an incredibly rich backdrop of Army life painted by Jones, who was actually stationed in Hawaii during the period portrayed in the book.
FROM HERE TO ETERNITY is the big book.
Though probably not read as much today, it remains a huge achievement in American letters.
This was the debut novel of James Jones, and it made him a literary sensation overnight.
Published in 1951, it won the National Book Award (beating out Salinger's THE CATCHER IN THE RYE) the following year and was later turned into the Oscar winning film.
With a scope similar to Tolstoy, but a language uniquely American, FROM HERE TO ETERNITY is one of the most unforgettable epics of the 20th century.
