https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/222458.Rules
This is a quick read, I read it in about a week or so.
What I liked best about the book, is how Cynthia Lord(the author) really understands how it's like to live with people with autism.
I don't just recommend only people with relatives with autism to read this, I recommend everyone reading it.
I would recommend this book to my friends so they could get a glimpse of what my life is like sometimes, because a lot of my friends and people I see really don't understand.Fellow Reader,Swee'Tea
That ring of truth is there, in every word, when you read the story of twelve-year old Catherine and her autistic younger brother, David.David hates loud noises.
David goes there once a week to work with a therapist, and so does the boy who doesn't speak but instead uses a book of word cards to communicate.
When Catherine offers to make Jason, the boy in the wheelchair, some new cards with pictures, an unlikely friendship is born.
How do you tell your mother that even though David needs his own words, Frog and Toad is a special communication between a brother and sister that love each other?
To further complicate things, they have a new next door neighbor who's Catherine's age and she does everything she can to hide David's behavior so that her new friend won't find out.
It's a good story, but it really was the moments between Catherine and David that struck me so much.
One of Catherine's rules is "If you don't have the words you need - borrow someone else's." David takes this to heart and is perpetually quoting Arnold Lobel's "Frog and Toad" book to express how he feels, and Catherine will respond back with the next line.
When I saw it had been challenged, I figured I'd read it to try to understand why.Here's why RULES got challenged: some people are effing crazy.
This is a beautifully written, touching story about a family that happens to include an autistic kid.
Catherine, the 12-year-old protagonist, is portrayed realistically, with a pitch-perfect kid's voice.
She grows through the story, coming to better accept the differences in the people around her.
The parents are loving but flawed in realistic ways.Every school library should have a copy of RULES and encourage kids to read it.
David expects his father at five and becomes very distressed when he isn't home by five.
Why is it that Catherine can understand how difficult it is for David to cope with his father's lateness, but her father can't?
Another good example is in Catherine's new neighbor, Kristie, a girl Catherine would like to be friends with, but whom she immediately senses will be much `cooler' than she is.
Kristie, it turns out, isn't a mean girl, and it's clear she's dealing with her own issues, but she probably isn't going to be real friend material for Catherine.
4.5* rounded upIt's difficult having a brother with autism, and sometimes 12-year-old Catherine wants out.Oops I did it againI let books mess with my heartGot lost in the gameOh baby babyI love the characters in this story!
But hate to break it to you, this book...Sucked.If they're trying to get kids to read, you just made it sure they won't read another word except "pizza" or "video games".I can not believe I am wasting my precious time on this book.
Out of all the fabulous books like Harry Potter or Hunger Games they had to pick a book about a girl who can't stand her autistic little brother.
We learn from those books, not from ones that talk about a girl that likes drawing with her stupid colored pencils when her brother is at the clinic.
In Rules by Cynthia Lord, the main focus is on the main character, Catherine, and how she gets through simple day to day tasks with her autistic brother, David, by her side.
Throughout the book, Catherine is teaching her brother new rules and reminding him of old ones.
With David, Jason, and even Kristi getting more close to her, she learns many lessons from them and becomes a little more comfortable with the thought of autism and its effects.
For example, when Catherine went over to invite the new neighbors to a barbecue and David shrieked when he saw a bee, she quickly said to the neighbor, “Oh, look at the time, sorry, gotta go”(Lord, 63).
Rules, by author Cynthia Lord, is a touching look at the life of a young girl, Catherine, who's coping with the conflicting emotions of living with her autistic brother, David.
Catherine, a normal 12 year old girl, has a huge role and responsibility in the care-taking of her autistic brother, David.
And honestly, I didn't care much by the end of the story.Rules has some great and touching moments and does a pretty good job at showing the conflict siblings must feel having a family member with a disability.
Protagonist of “Rules” by Cynthia Lord, struggles with anxiety and the fear of what others may think about her because of her autistic brother, David.
The story line is like no other, Lord links her ideas of feminism to special needs.
The layout and style in which this story is written is important in means of understanding each abstract idea from the main character better.
Some may argue that the reader is not given enough informational incite about how the other characters are feeling, but the author's intentions are strictly to show Catherine's point of view.
Well, this was a nice book - a story about a girl trying to come to grips with her autistic brother (and her parents who do everything for him and nothing for her) and her friendship with a boy with cerebral palsy.
But it seemed artifical - I mean, she is driven crazy by the brother, but she chooses to befriend the boy who is even more challenged?
I can't help but think of works-in-progress by two author friends that deal with similarly limited kids, but that have so much heart that you can't help but fall in love with the characters - something Lord doesn't come close to accomplishing.
Protagonist of “Rules” by Cynthia Lord, struggles with anxiety and the fear of what others may think about her because of her autistic brother, David.
The story line is like no other, Lord links her ideas of feminism to special needs.
The layout and style in which this story is written is important in means of understanding each abstract idea from the main character better.
Some may argue that the reader is not given enough informational incite about how the other characters are feeling, but the author's intentions are strictly to show Catherine's point of view.
Would I be embararrased?' Even though my favorite character is Catherine, I really like Jason, too.
I feel good that Jason wants to have a friend, and he has.I like when he smiles in the story.
I like when Jason hangs out with Catherine and talks using the communication book.
He needs a lot of help from Mom and Dad. He isn't good at knowing what is happening, so her sister keeps telling the rules and tips.Ryan teases David, so Catherine is angry at him.
She likes to dance.Catherine's Dad really loves plants.
I thought this book was really incredible.
I read it in one sitting.
I was glad that Lord didn't shy away Catherine's difficult and conflicted feeling about having an autistic brother.
I thought the relationship she built between Catherine and Jason was natural and touching.
I haven't experienced any of what went on in Catherine's family life, but her propensity for daydreaming and getting her hopes up about a friend who might not be as friendly as she imagined was spot on.On a separate note, I really enjoyed the way the book was structured, with each chapter branching off of a different one of the rules from Catherine's list.
I really liked this book. I like how in all of Cynthia Lord's books, there is a saying before every chapter.I liked how the main character had a brother with autism because I had never really read a book like that before. I recommend this book to anyone who likes realistic fiction or just a good, quick and funny read.
This is a really heartfelt story that helps readers understand the strain that autism puts on an entire family.
I enjoyed the array of characters and how they deal with the disability.
There are those who are understanding, frustrated, confused, sympathetic, and downright mean--which is so authentic!
I attended Cynthia Lord's author session at the Dublin Literacy Conference this year where she spoke about writing this book.
I was anxious to read the book, as it was inspired by her daughter (who wanted to read a book about a family like theirs).
I would recommend it to anyone who is looking to understand autism a bit better.
One would normally identify with the main character of this book, 12-year-old Catherine who's younger brother, David, has Autism.
I can't help but wonder, though, if my son identified with David (being that my son is a younger brother with Autism).
Maybe that was the point -- how life is when you live with a sibling with a disability?I think Cynthia Lord had better intentions than this, but I am left with the after effects of trying to boost my Autistic son's self-esteem.
I finally got my hands on RULES by Cynthia Lord, and I read it in one sitting.
Her mannerisms and thoughts ring true, especially her artistic view on life and her lists of rules to help both herself and her autistic brother David.
From the premise of the book, I expected it to be a slower read, but the story strides along confidently.I loved Catherine's blossoming relationship with wheelchair-bound Jason, who can't speak, beautifully shown in the vocabulary cards she makes him.
As Catherine helps Jason communicate, she in turn reveals her own hidden thoughts and emotions.

I read this for a book club book and it was about a girl whose brother had autism and he was very embarrasing. (at least to her) it taught me some lessons about honestly and much more!
Catherine is thrilled to learn that the house next door has been sold to a family with a girl her age. She daydreams about a new best friend. Meanwhile, she makes a new friend in the waiting room at the office where her little brother (who is autistic) goes for occupational therapy. Jason can't talk, but Catherine steadily adds words to his vocabulary. Rules and rubber ducks and running. Wheelchairs and words. Standing out and being invisible. Frustration and true friends. Loved this. Wholeheartedly.
I love the human face this book gives Autism. I also like how it is told from a family member's perspective so we understand what it is like to live in a household with someone impacted by Autism.
This book is about Catherine who just wants a normal life which is impossible for her brother, David who has autism. She makes rules to teach him in order to stop his embarrassing behavior, but in summer, when Catherine meets Jason and Kristi, it's her own behavior that's turning everything upside-down. I like this book because the plot of the story is similar to Wonder. It also reminds me of the rules that I had to follow at school. So, I recommend this book to the ones who either follow rules or not.
The main character, a twelve-year-old girl named Catherine, is highly relatable, and draws you in from the first chapter by telling you all about her "rules" for behavior that she has written for her autistic brother (which range from practical to laugh-out-loud funny).
I couldn't help but love her for doing this for him.My only problem with the book was that I felt like the main character wasn't consistent; it felt like she went from being 12 to being 15 halfway through the book.
Such is the problem with first person, I guess.All in all this was an excellent book and I would highly recommend it.
This book was about a girl Catherine and her younger brother David who is autistic.
And then Jason and Catharine became very good friends and there relationship grows stronger through out the book, even though Catharine tries her hardest to make David normal she accepts that he will ever be normal.
this was a heart warming story that showed a different perspective acceptance.
i would recommend this book to everyone who looking for a heart warming read.
I've been meaning to read this ever since my coworker Kristi booktalked it years ago.
Then I got to hear the author speak at ALA last summer (she has an autistic son) so that made me want to read it even more.
12-year-old Catherine's younger brother David is autistic.
At the office where David goes regularly for therapy, Catherine befriends a boy her age named Jason.
Jason has CP and doesn't talk, but he has a notebook of words that he can point to when he wants to communicate.
I read this book to help my grandson with his Battle of the Books assignment.
We can discuss the characters and the important points of the story together now.
I enjoyed the characters in the story and the RULES very much.
I hope my grandson cares about Carherine and her little brother, David, as much as I do now.
I learned that just because someone cannot talk, it does not mean that they cannot hear or that they cannot say things, if they have the words.
I thought Catherine so brave for handling her brother's autism with more understanding and grace than I believe the average 12 year old would have.
She shows a combination of kindness and frustration because she is torn between instilling her younger autistic brother with rules for life and being a normal pre-teen.
I believe her relationship with Jason teaches her one of the most important lessons in life.
That lesson is that some people don't know how to deal with adversity, and some people ignore it but what is really important is how we choose to deal with it and our relationships with one another.
So far this book has been interesting- in a good way. It gives real life situations that the characters have to solve and really makes you want to keep reading. The book is about Catherine and her little brother, David, who has autism. This means he needs help with lots of things, which is why Catherine has made him RULES that he is supposed to follow. All of her adventures to try to protect him have been very exciting- and a little bit funny, too. I would definitely recommend reading this book.
I just finished reading RULES for the second time, and I loved the characters even more this time around. This is a funny, touching book about a girl coming to terms with her brother's disability and what it means to their family life. It's a fantastic book for the classroom, with lots of opportunities for extension activities and discussion (and in the September Scholastic Book Order for $3.95).
