https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17792606-mine
Its always sad when we come across a book that we absolutely LOVE and count the months, weeks and days for the sequel..Then when we actually do get the book and all revved up to see what's in store, it turns out to be the biggest load of crap!!!Excuse my use of the word crap but nothing and I mean nothing can possibly explain my irritation while reading this.Remy is a God, a beast of a man.
Possible thee only reason I continued reading.To elaborate, the cause of my irritation was Brooke.My thoughts about her-For the love of God this woman was professing her love for him on 
4.2 Mr Speedy Riptid Stars!Spices of MineScentingLickingWhiningDoubtingFucking eachother in their HeadsErotic Romanceand Underground Action which turns you on like a Christmas Tree ;)Oh the Scenting and Licking of our DARK RIPTIDE "TATE", LION REMY!!!!The stars I gave to this book are souly belongs to Remy because he was the only reason i kept reading Mine, No offense Brooke, I really wanted to give you a share in rating but I can't bring myself to it after all you were doing` is whining and being horney till the very end of this book.
2.5 Dull StarsNote: If you are a hard-core Remy fan and you INFINITE-STARRED Real, don’t bother reading this review. You’re wasting your time. Just go get a copy of Mine because chances are you’ll love it too.EDIT: Forgot to add this, but Mine is NOT in Remy's POV. All in Brooke's.....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I’m going to be ranting so apologies ahead of time.  If you like books with exaggerated intensity, this is the one for you. This writing is...interesting. *cocks head* W
2.5 Dull StarsNote: If you are a hard-core Remy fan and you INFINITE-STARRED Real, don’t bother reading this review.
How many times do I need to read about the hollering crowd in the fight scenes, each person just dying to get a piece of Remy?
There’s no way to sugarcoat this: I don’t know what the heck Remy sees in Brooke.
You know that in the previous book Brooke leaves a heartbreaking letter for Remy when she left him.
As the crowd says, BOOOOOOOOOO!Something I NEVER understood since Real was, why the heck does Remy need Brooke to look him in the eye and smile in order for him to fight well?
Imagine the bolt of terror that must have shot through Adam's vitals when he opened the mailing envelope sealed with pink heart stickers, withdrew the manuscript of Mine and began to read....For anyone who has read or followed a friend's reading progress of Real, you know what to expect from the pen of Katy Evans: idiotic grammar, garbled syntax, mangled similes, a few words repeated so often they start to look funny, and a hero who likes to play with his semen and manually shove it up his lady love's hooha as a demonstration of Possessive Twu Wuv. Even cavemen think that's going a little far.Really, the saga of Brooke & Remy has been something speshul ever since it landed on the self-pub circuit.
4.5 I love REMY stars!
I HATE reviewing books like this!
Hate it!
You want to know why...
because if I reviewed the book how I wanted to, there would be so many spoilers no one could read it.
I’m just going to have to be a little vague about some things and tell you what I loved- with no spoilers of course :DReal was a hit or miss book for a lot of people.
For me, it was a hit.
And there is one particular reason for that.
His name is Remington Tate.
Nobody taught him how to love.
because if I reviewed the book how I wanted to, there would be so many spoilers no one could read it.
I’m just going to have to be a little vague about some things and tell you what I loved- with no spoilers of course :DReal was a hit or miss book for a lot of people.
I really do love Remy and Brooke together.
The raw, real, possessive and powerful love they have.
For that reason, I didn’t love this one quite as much as I did Real.
If you haven't read Real, what are you waiting for, you NEED to meet Remy!
DNF at 43%Okay, fine! I shouldn't have read this! I thought I should give this one a try. For one, this series was picked up by a publisher and maybe, just maybe, it would make somewhat of a difference. With a solid editor behind her, who knows where the story of Remy and Brooke will take us. But I was wrong. For one, Brooke just wouldn't shut up about how cut Remy's muscles were or how blue his eyes were. Or his scruffy jaw, his dimples and his eight pack, plus the scenting and licking...Gah!!
With a solid editor behind her, who knows where the story of Remy and Brooke will take us.
Even Remy's fights gets repetitive.
Do I really need to read the announcer yelling, "RIPTIIIIIDEEEEEE," every single fight he has?
Do I really need to hear the groupies shout inane statements like, "Remy, I want to have your babies," every fight?
That and the fact that I felt this story is totally unnecessary.I don't need another book in Brooke's POV.
And honestly, the fact that Remy is in love with this girl makes Remy less hot in my eyes.
The EndI loved this book! Not as much as I loved the first book, but it was still amazinggg!!I loved how he would go all LION on her! Such a hottie!!!but the whole 'scent' thing was super weird..I want to lick his ABS!!!
MINE was easy to write, but hard to let go of, because it's the near-end of Brooke and Remy's story for me, and it was a ride which I just loved taking.Where did Brooke and Remington go after Real finished?
In MINE I wanted Brooke to prove to me, through all her challenges, that she was capable of standing by Remy, even when she had her own little demons to battle.
From his POV, Remy is a little bit of present, of Real, and of Mine, and it rounds up their story in a way that left me extremely happy.I am beyond grateful for the book love we've received!
It's between 2 and 3 stars for me.I think I went into this book with HIGH expectations. I loved the first book and adored Remy. I loved Remy again in this book. It was Brooke I kinda had a problem with. The tears, the tears, the tears … way too many and the insecurity. Thought she was a stronger character than that.… and the licking and the scenting. Overuse of certain words just annoy me. ”You … are going to love me until I die. I’m going to make you love me even if it hurts, and when it hurts,
I loved the first book and adored Remy.
I loved Remy again in this book.
”You … are going to love me until I die.
I’m going to make you love me even if it hurts, and when it hurts, I’m going to make it better, Brooke … You’re going to fucking love me if it kills us.”
So the first half was tough going.
YOU’RE EVERYTHING I NEVER KNEW I WANTED
But by the end of it I was rooting for both of them and there was a lovely HEA.
Interview with Katy Evans, visit HERE Book Signing Photos with Katy Evans, visit HERE 4.5 Oh My Remy Stars   I’m the realest fucking thing you’re ever going to have   If you are looking for an alpha, over-loaded, gripping, pull-your-hair-out, tension, over-maxed read, well Mine is for you.Let’s just get all the ass kissing out of the way first… Katy Evan, damn. Katy writes in a way it seems like poetry. Most of my book is highlighted, in fact, I had to reframe from highlighting because most of t
I am always cautious in reading sequels, because I love the characters so much, I really don’t want them to struggle anymore, BUT Katy did well.
I also loved how Katy described him as a lion and a tree, these sort of descriptive words, really put Katy, as an author, to a whole new level (I know, I said I wouldn’t ass kiss anymore, but I can’t help it, she’s good!).Brooke is a mess, but in a justified good way.
I love it when it’s the couple against the world kind of read.
OH. MY. GOD.and Katy Evans wrote:"The series will have 5 total! Brooke and Remy get three. REAL, then the sequel, MINE, and then REMY (Real in Rem's POV). Then Melanie gets a story and we see more of Rem and Brooke through her . . . and then we get a last book. Surprise. Haha!! "ABSOLUTELY FREAKING OUT HERE.....And Finally......
Jesus. I have no words in my vocabulary that can come close to this book. Nothing that can adequately describe what my heart, soul and body feel. Five stars is a pathetic rating for this. It deserves infinite stars because it's perfect. And you know what? How hard is it to put out a book that's blindingly perfect? Almost impossible. Let me tell you that Katy drew every word she put down from somewhere deep in her soul. Every word slammed me in the gut. I can't wait to post my review. YOU HAVE TO READ THIS BOOK!
5 Fighting Stars!!Brooke and Remy are finally together and happy, a new promising season is beginning and things finally start to look good for them.Despite some remains of anger towards Brooke departure, things are finally solid between them.
And with the distance comes insecurity.
Brooke starts to feel insecure about all the groupies, about the fighting and everything that comes with it.
There was a time when Brooke annoyed the hell out of me, but Remy, oh-sweet-and-sexy-Remy, he made it all worth it.
It was a little predictable, but the steam was all there and it was also sweet and romantic with no end.
I really enjoyed MINE so it gets 4.5 SEXY STARS from me :)I don't remember much from the last book (I know, old age sucks!) other than it left me sexually frustrated, Remy was hot and, as much as I wanted to hate Brooke, she only managed to fuck up towards the very end.
if you read the book, you know what I mean.This book certainly had no shortage of thisand thisand thisand, of course, lots of thisand how sweet was Remy (view spoiler)[when he learned that he was going to be a dad (hide spoiler)] ...
Can't wait... I feel like he's a lazy lion, bathing me with his tongue, licking and nuzzling me... I'm getting addicted to this moment after the orgasm where I will be so relaxed and he will still have the energy to position me in a way where he can spoon me and hold me, and do all his manly, possessive lion-liked OCD things with me. -Real
4 Ripped, Raw, and so DAMN Real Stars“Mind. Body. Soul. All of you for me. All of you mine.” Here he is, ladies and gentlemen. Here. He. Is! You all know who I’m talking about?” “RIP-TIIIIIIIDE!” Who?  “RIP-TIIIIIIDE!” One more time, ’cause I can’t hear you! “RIPTIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDE!”“That’s right, ladies and gentlemen!"The one, the only, Remingtoooon Tate, your RIPTIIIIIIIIIDE!!” When love is the answer to all your questions you think you have it all. But life isn't
It's the braver and the one who managed to stood up that eighth time that he stumbled and no one expected him to make it.
And like Brooke who lost all her dreams to realise that the ones she didn't dare make where just waiting for her.Normal is overrated and possesive is the NEW sexy!Holy freaking hell Remy got to me again!Delicious, sexy, heartbreakingly emotional and passionate this book is like an altar to worship the alpha male.
This book lacked the intensity of the first and Brooke's insecurities got old really fast.
Our love is all-consuming, powerful,imperfect, and real...
6 "LOVE OF A LIFETIME" starsoverwhelmed again...and speechless at the moment...RE-READ IT January 8, 2017.Ah, I'm back to do the hardest thing I had to do lately - give my humble thoughts on this piece of gem, right here...Gosh, what can i say!
He fights everything, even himself, but I love that he’s never fought loving me.My playful boy, my protective man, my jealous boyfriend, my cocky fighter.
“Do you?”“You,” he says, his voice terse and commanding as he drags his wet thumb across my lips, “are going to love me until I die.
this was a love story to die for...
I’d rather die loving the hell out of you.”
My Thoughts: ❥ This story picks up two months after Real ends and we get to find out what's been going on with Brooke and Remy. ❥ IMO, it was a lot of the same with a little bit of the different. I felt that Remy had matured a lot and had more of a handle on Brooke and his condition. Brooke, on the other hand, seemed less able to deal with things especially since she caused most of the problems. ❥ Remember all the sexual tension in the first book? Well, that's gone and instead we get scene afte
❥ Don't get me wrong, we get that Remy is hot but I'm not sure we need to hear about his 8 pack, his dimples, his spiked hair and all his muscles over and over again!❥ I did love the times when they just cuddled and especially when they played songs for each other.
❥ Something also happens between Brooke and Remy...not that you couldn't see it coming and I'm still not sure how I feel about it.
But one thing's for sure, I won't ever believe that Remy would leave her...nope, not buying it.
I cannot wait for the next book and Remy's POV.
I wanted to love it, I truly did..and I was so looking forward to this second book.
I began to cringe each time it was mentioned that Remy licked behind Brookes ear, or every time the couple smelled one another in the crook of their necks.
It just felt like a lot of "filler" instead of a story full of substance.I feel strongly that the first book, Real; should have been a stand alone book with a kick ass epilogue.
I truly loved that book, it was intense and electric when Remy and Brooke first laid eyes on one another.
"Who's your man?"" Remington Tate, my Riptide" KATY EVANS, YOU ARE AWESOME!!!!!!! I SO NEED MORE MORE MORE OF REMY!!!!!!!!! I have no words to explain how much I loved this book!!!!!!!!!!!!!! No right words! Remy, dear Lord, he makes me forget everything else, that's definitely for sure.  And Brooke Remy and Brooke will take you into a beautiful journey of their life. Every moment will keep you hooked, glued and I surely became unaware of my surrounding. I keep reading even in my tube.........
"Who's your man?"" Remington Tate, my Riptide" KATY EVANS, YOU ARE AWESOME!!!!!!!
I SO NEED MORE MORE MORE OF REMY!!!!!!!!!
I have no words to explain how much I loved this book!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
No right words!
Remy, dear Lord, he makes me forget everything else, that's definitely for sure.
And Brooke
Remy and Brooke will take you into a beautiful journey of their life.
Every moment will keep you hooked, glued and I surely became unaware of my surrounding.
*giggles* Remy does that!!!!
I need to be inside you right now....." 
Just pick up this brilliant, intense, amazing, wonderful book!!!!!
Cover time!!!!!BOOK 2!!!!!  Me Want more:Sexy "Riptide" Tate! Dark Remington Cute Brooke♥Remy
Sizzling Pages Romance Reviews Sizzling Pages @ Facebook Twitter:@SizzlingpagesOMG Katy thank you so much!!! So freaking in love with this couple and this story. Every single page is like a secret...like something beautiful that can't wait to settle in my heart. I loved every moment even the ones that made my heart hurt. 5 million Sizzling Hearts & Stars !!!!!! Everybody that knows me knows that REAL was my all time favorite steamy romance of 2013. I told everyone about this blue eyed lickin
His scenting, licking and petting is just over the top amazing.I can only imagine what thoughts will be portrayed in his POV coming up in Remy.He loves from the bottom of his beautifully damaged soul and Brooke was what he wanted , who he loved and he made sure she knew it.
But the one song that really spoke to me, that really portrayed the love between Brooke and Remy is below.
Our Lion is back and he was in his full primal glory. I wish I could have given this one more stars but I think when you write something as epic as Real was it is so very difficult to follow it up. I found Brooke to be a distracting mess at times and it definitely warranted most of that full star deduction. I don't mind a woman being vulnerable or dickmatized or even emotional... but there needs to be a balance. It definitely received all four of those stars for the wonderfulness that is Remy.
I wish I could have given this one more stars but I think when you write something as epic as Real was it is so very difficult to follow it up.
I found Brooke to be a distracting mess at times and it definitely warranted most of that full star deduction.
It definitely received all four of those stars for the wonderfulness that is Remy.
It's amazing how a character doesn't have to say much and yet be the reason the story is so massively and overwhelmingly wonderful!
I can't wait for Remy and to have his POV!!!
I CANNOT WAIT FOR MORE REMY, I WANT HIM NOW!!!!!
When I finished Real, I could NOT wait to read more of Remy and Brooke.
And don't get me wrong I really really liked this book, but there were a few things that irritated me too.
:) I loved Remy in this book.
And I didn't mind it in this book at all, except that it seemed like every other sentence it was being mentioned.
My only other complaint (view spoiler)[ is Brooke and Remy with their baby.
I will say I was relieved to see that the 4th and 5th book isn't about Brooke and Remy.
I am very very very excited to read Remy's book though.
After reading Real there was zero doubt in my mind how much Remy loved her.
There is zero doubt in the ability of Katy Evans to create a sex scene that has the readers lusting for more, but where we had such sexual tension in Real, I felt like it was a bit overwhelming in parts.
Because now he had his real, he had Brooke.
(hide spoiler)]I think we all fell in love with Remy from the start and there is nothing that would ever keep me from reading more of him or really anything Katy Evans publishes.
Regardless, I would like to thank the author for sharing her story and Remy, who is an amazing alpha-male.Remy’s character saved the book for me.
All that is Remy, the lion, kept my interest in this story.Brooke, on the other hand, was far from appealing to me.
Most of the story was dedicated to Brooke’s amorous feelings for Remy.
How she loved him, how he turned her on, how horny he made her feel, how protective and “proprietary “ Remy is of her.
Again, by the time it started to pull together, it was towards the finale.Lastly, to end on a positive note, the love scenes were sizzling hot, proving that Remy is “the man”.
5 REEEMMMMYYYYYYYY, scent, lick, suck and taste, stars*****How on earth do I review a book I just love so much without giving away the plot? I'm going to try my best but for me even though the story is a delight and had me sweating, salivating and feeling like I'm a dog on heat it's really to me about the characters and especially one special beautiful Lion which is..... REMY...   He just blew me away he really is the epitome of Alpha! He is raw, strong, sexy, he is built like a Lion, fights li
5 REEEMMMMYYYYYYYY, scent, lick, suck and taste, stars*****How on earth do I review a book I just love so much without giving away the plot?
When I was reading this to me this was a beautiful soul deep love story I had butterflies in my tummy like we were just meeting for the first time, he had me in bits every word on those pages come out and seep through.
So to conclude you get that I enjoyed there journey but really I found Katy Evans really did depict how you deal with a mental health problem, how they love deep and how they cherish the people around them, and especially for giving us REMY he will forever be in my heart.
4 I Love Remy Stars!Remy is still a smoking hot, possessive as hell fighter. Just can't seem to get enough of him! We start out with Brooke and Remy getting back together after she ran away from him. It's a new fight season and it's time for Remy to reclaim the championship. He is in the best shape of his life and in a healthy frame of mine now that he has his girl back. Nobody ever taught him how to love.He does it instinctively.   Brooke is back and has promised to never leave him again. It wa
4 I Love Remy Stars!Remy is still a smoking hot, possessive as hell fighter.
We start out with Brooke and Remy getting back together after she ran away from him.
It's a new fight season and it's time for Remy to reclaim the championship.
Nobody ever taught him how to love.He does it instinctively.
Brooke is back and has promised to never leave him again.
"I promise.
I promise, you have my heart, and you have me.
They are trying to get through the season without Remy going black, but Scorpion is trying to set Remy off.
Buddy Read with my girl Ness!!https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...
Solid 1.5 Stars Now let's be clear... The only reason why I stayed here was because of Remy.. And my love & hope that came from book 1(Real) But unfortunately, like a marriage, it takes more than one person to keep the boat afloat. Brooke completely sunk this ship for me. I'm not happy about it. As a matter of fact, I'm beyond disappointed with her. But that's not the only thing I'm unhappy about.Case & point... Contrived Plot throughout this entire book.1. From chapter 2 & beyond, a
And my love & hope that came from book 1(Real) But unfortunately, like a marriage, it takes more than one person to keep the boat afloat.
From chapter 2 & beyond, all Brooke did was cry, complain, & show just how utterly insecure she is as far as herself, her relationship with Remy & their circumstances.
The fact that this book was once again told in Brooke's POV does not help matters cos all she does is obsess.
I needed Remy's thoughts here.
We needed Remy's POV here.
There were so many avenues that Ms Evans could have taken with this book concerning Remy & Brooke.
