https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9606839-the-vampire-diaries-volumes-1-4
I wanted to read this book because I absolutely love the show.
Elena becomes so obsessed with Stefan that she loses all self-control.
Elena is so desperate to win Stefan's affections that she makes up a fake French boyfriend who sends her flowers just to make him jealous.
So basically, Elena does not seem like a great character at all.
He's the only thing I liked about this book, because he is the only character that acted true to form.
This whole book seemed like a trainwreck of events to me.
Needless to say, I will not be reading the second book.
Read this in high school and really enjoyed it! That's about all I can remember.
Also, Damon Salvatore happens to be one of my favorite characters of all time.I enjoyed this read quite a bit.
Don't let the 3 star rating fool you, that's mostly regarding the fact that the first two books could have been put into one.
I really love these characters and I can't wait to read more.
I've only read the first 3 books, but I will be moving on with them all this time.These books are NOTHING like the TV show.
I enjoy the book characters more than the TV show.
However, I was expecting this book to have semi-likable main characters, a plot, and some decent writing.
The author was trying to make Elena into a stereotypical popular high school girl.
If Stefan's character wasn't bad enough, his relationship with Elena made it even worse.
Now it's not like in the TV show Stefan and Elena had this beautiful, complex relationship.
We already talked about how Elena is that "stereotypical popular and beautiful, yet self-obsessed, high school girl." That isn't all.
I hated that the author didn't build on Elena's home life at all, I never felt so unconnected to a book before.
This is the better vampire series that i've read.Everything fits perfectly and there is Damon.He's the most adorable villain non-villain ever. He kills, he hurts, he mocks and I still love him... I'm so sick xDL J Smith rulez!
The worst book ever...but that's what I get for reading a teeny bopper book.
And then there's trouble from a human rival and Elena has to try and stop her before she can cause trouble for Stefan.Another story idea that made it into the Twilight series: the heroine is turned into a vampire.Book 3 (finished reading on 27/11/2010): A real tear-jerker at the end but this book features a surprising little twist in the story that sees Elena, Damon and Stefan uniting to battle a dangerous entity hell-bent on murder.
So this is one of the books where there is a girl and a boy.
Girl meets boy, they fall in love but this story was switched around a tad bit.
In the story the main idea is girl meets vampire.
First, Elena Gilbert.
As soon as she laid eyes on Stefan Salvatore, the new boy, her emotions have been changing.
She falls in love with him, but he goes for her enemy Meredith...
He eventually starts talking to her and falls in love.
Elena found Stefan guilty!
She finds out later on that the guy she loves is a vampire.
The main issue that the book address is that Elena Gilbert falls in love with vampire brothers Stefan and Damon Salvatore.The setting, varies with the same story line.
The time is very important because they are vampires, and they can live forever.The main characters are Elena Gilbert, who is beautiful and popular.
Story Summary: Elena Gilbert and her friends start their senior year of High School at Robert E.
She is having a hard time this year at school after breaking up with her long time boyfriend Matt, and fighting with her best friend Caroline over who is the most popular and they both want to be the Prom Queen.
Looking back at them now, they aren't the BEST books ever written, and I do wish they were a little longer, but I was around 13 or 14 first reading them so they were perfect for me at that age.I will always have a special place in my heart for this series.
They are what started my love affair with reading.I have watched the show, originally I hated it just due to everything that theu had changed, not included and added to the story.
But I gave it another chance recently and love it.
I just think of them as 2 separate things.)
I really liked it, but I didn't like Elena's character in the beginning. She was too slutty and she instantly became obsessed with Stefan. And it really has too much changing for her - she was a human, then a vampire, then a ghost, ghostly human and then human with special powers.Otherwise, it was good and I enjoyed reading it. And, I have to mention it, I adore Damon's character. He is just awesome.
I like books when I love the characters.
Even when the story is crappy, I can still find myself reading the book because I love the characters so much.
I assume it's even harder to write about one.But all hatred against our little Elena aside - god.
Even thought it's kind of weird - it's also not an original story.No surprise I quit halfway through the second book, feeling absolutely mad at everything and everyone.
It was because I found myself hating Elena with every second more and more.) And I was bored by all the cliches.
There are a great many elements I find intriguing in L.J. Smith’s books, but ultimately it was their execution, and possibly the writing style that fell short of making Stefan and company compelling for me.Maybe I’ve grown out of any fascination for Smith’s world?I will say I like the characters of Stefan and Damon who are wicked and mysterious; and even though they are aged vampires, they still manage to connect and project a lot of teen angst.
Though there are a great many unpredictable plot twists that kept me entertained.An okay read, but nothing I would recommend to anyone over the age of fourteen.

HERPER/level ?10/3 100min.Vampire, human, blood, worwolf, love, death, triangle, Do you want to be a vampire?No, I don't. Because they can't die easily, and get old.If you love two men,or women, what do you do?I'll date both of them at the same time.
I've heard that the books are pretty different from the TV series but I've still got to read it!!!
Totally awesome book!!!!! Who ever is going to read dis book I should tell you dis its the best book EVER. Whoever is not reading dis book you better look for it somewhere n read it.
The edition I read promised a love triangle in its description, yet we hardly get to experience Damons character, let alone see any relationship developments between him and Elena.
Book: The StruggleRating: 4/5No SERIOUS spoilers Continuing directly from "Awakening" Elena finds herself screaming for Damon to appear so she can confront him about Stefan's whereabouts.
Bonnie is starting to develop her own psychic powers, and so far is one of the most likable characters in the series other than Matt.
Loved the (tv) series! Hated the book!
I liked the book ,but it's a lot different than the TV show.

- Lui è un vampiro depresso che si sente un'anima dannata e non merita l'amore e la felicità.
All'inizio sembra che darà via la vita ma non il suo segreto ma poi si arrende troppo facilmente...
Stefan poi, che nome dannatamente italiano!
>_<;;;;; Mi chiedo come Stefan non l'abbia tanato subito...
Va bene far capire che c'è un seguito ma questo sembra il fine primo tempo non un primo volume.Di positivo ho trovato la velocità con cui si legge, è leggero ma niente di più.
Un romanzo che tra qualche giorno scorderò e del quale non comprerò il seguito.
Aber mein absoluter Favorit in der ganzen Reihe ist einfach DAMON Salvatore ♥ Ich liebe den Charakter einfach, er gehört auf jeden Fall zu meinen Top 10 Buchcharakteren.
Was ich toll finde ist, dass ich fast alle Charaktere einfach mag,nicht nur die guten, sondern auch die "bösen" ,das ist mir bei Büchern besonders wichtig.Jetzt habe ich die Reihe übrigens noch mal gelesen, weil ich vor einer Woche damit begonnen habe, "Vampire Diaries" - die Fernsehserie zur Buchreihe- auf DVD zu gucken und ich liebe sie so sehr ♥ Es ist auf jeden Fall eine meiner 5 Lieblingsserien geworden.
Lastly they act like normal children by going to parties and other fun things that tennagers would do.But when they were at the party , they found out someone they knew was killed by drinkning a poisonous drink.I think the book was very boring because it wasnt really any action until the end of the story.
The charcters were realistic in a way because they acted like a normal group of teenage kids that had feelings for eachother.The diolouge was interesting because they were talking to eachother like they were in a relationship.
I would recommend this book to those who like vampire romantic stories.
Actual rating: 3.5The last book of this series is pretty much where everything goes wrong.
(view spoiler)[ they should have kept Elena dead.
(hide spoiler)]I do not watch The Vampire Diaries series.
Elena is well...a spoiled brat.
I've seen people call her a slut,but i don't see how a single person being attracted to another single person makes the first person a slut,but okay.Everything went down in the revival series,but I won't get on that on this review.Anyway,i recommend this book for vampire romance fans looking for a series to spend their time.
BUT I DO NOT RECOMMEND THE REVIVAL SERIES.
There is not enough time for her and Stefan to fall in love either, so the thought of them being separated doesn't really affect me.
Also, there is the forced love-triangle with Damon, which is unnecessary and basically happens in the few moments right after Elena becomes a vampire...
some love, it lasted about...
I suppose I like Damon, but that's mainly because I've seen the show first.
I award that one star for Damon, at least he stays consistent as a character.
However if you like quality and complex characters, pass!
If someone were interested in a science fiction book , the first one I would recommend would be The Vampire Diaries .
This book is about a young girl who just went back to school after a terrible accident in where her parents die .
She then starts to like a new boy at their school .
I love this book because it does a great job of keeping you on the edge of your seat .
I would recommend this book to anyone who liked the Twilight series or anyone interested in Science Fantasy books or romance .
I found these books very hard to finish.
I enjoyed the first two books, but after that, I struggled to finish the other two.
Elenas character is so self centred, whereas, she's nothing like that on the TV, I prefer Elena on the TV show, also, I think the writing is very poor.
I must say, they're not my favourite books, and I think if you can manage the poor writing,the dreary story line and a hugely up her own arse main character, then give these books ago.
Elana has it all.
She is the queen of the school, how else would it be?
Lately she has been felling like she needs some where to belong.
One day a mysterious stranger appears at school.
Elana wants him to be hers.
But he has a mysterious secret, and a brother who's out to kill him.
Read the book to find out more!I liked this book.
But the characters seemed kind of pathetic and self centered, especally Elana.
She just seem so ungreatful in the beginning of the book.
But otherwise it was a great book, and I might check out the next one.
I attempted to read this series a dozen times due to my love for the television series, but I was only able to truly get through it when I listened to it on audio book.
After starting a new position at work that allows me to listen to audio books all day I decided I would give it a shot and although the storyline wasn't so bad I still didn't care much for Elena.
I wanted to punch her in the face most of the time because she was entirely self centered.
