https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10055.And_I_Don_t_Want_to_Live_This_Life
John Lennon and Yoko Ono. Kurt Cobain and Courtney Love. Eric Clapton and Pattie Boyd. Jim Morrison and Pamela Courson. Sid and Nancy. It was a crazy, passionate, tragic, Romeo and Juliet kind of love affair. Their story had a crazy beginning, but maybe the craziest thing is how normal their relationship could have been.  In all seriousness, this is a sad book. It's a sad story. Of course I'd heard of Nancy Spungen. I mean, who hasn't? During my unfortunate punk phase in high school – when I wo
Sid and Nancy.
Their story had a crazy beginning, but maybe the craziest thing is how normal their relationship could have been.
It's a sad story.
Anway, like any good newbie fan, I searched the internet for information on Sid Vicious.
The stories ranged from tragic to hilarious.
What really happened on the night Nancy was killed?
Did Sid really kill her?
If Sid did kill Nancy, he definitely had no recollection of it.
Nancy hasn't been painted in a good light.
Courtney killed Kurt.
Nancy had a bad reputation.
We must be stopped!Nancy Spungen wasn't a bad person.
Nancy and Sid paid the ultimate price.
Loved this book I first read it when I was 14, being a Pistols fan, & Nancy Spungeon I was fascinated with her life.
Her poor suffering mother writes a really harrowing touching well written book about a child who was clearly born 'disturbed' came out of the womb screaming & biting & never stopped.
I know many people who came in contact with nancy they all say the same thing, she was the most awful annoying bitch ever.
There is a fab video of her & sid & stiv bators & girlfriend on a cable chat show, being interviewed 3 weeks before her death.
It documents the incredible pain, sadness and heartbreak that the Spungen family endured throughout Nancy's turbulent and tragic life, even continuing after her death.
The public only saw the fabricated image of Nancy Spungen that was created by sleazy tabloid reporters.
Yes, Nancy was a disturbed heroin addict, but she was also sensitive and could not find peace and happiness in life.
She even revealed the contents of some of her doctors’ psychiatric diagnosis’, something she only learned after her death.
I recommend this book very highly and praise Deborah Spungen for her remarkable strength, courage and love.
Throughout the book, although especially in the first half, she describes allowing Nancy to set the tone of the house and do whatever she wants to do whenever she wants to do it - including the story of telling Suzy to give Nancy the pen that Suzy in currently using because Nancy wants it, then telling Suzy to not be a troublemaker - and then she blames Nancy for the fact of their household moving around her.
I found the book to be uneven and self-justifying rather than an honest and clear depiction of Nancy and her mother. I didn't like it at all because the more I read, the more it took on a very self-centered viewpoint with very little compassion or understanding of Nancy as a person. I would hope that if my daughter died, and I chose to write a book about it, I would reflect more on the loss of a very unique and special (if troubled) woman without filling the pages with self-gratifying explanations and excuses regarding her death.
This book was amazing, because it lets people know more about Nancy Spungen, humanizing her instead of just viewing her as a minor, murdered character in the history of punk rock.
I don't usually get teary eyed over books but reading the struggles that Nancy's parents faced from the time she was a child, ending with the way the police treated them when they went to claim her body had me bawling.
I also think this is a must-read for anyone who is raising a learning-disabled child, perhaps if help were available for learning & behavioral disabilities back then, Nancy's fate would have been different.
Deborah Spungen is the mother of Nancy Spungen, girlfriend of Sex Pistols' Sid Vicious.
It is a heartbreaking book by a grieving mother who loved her daughter and wanted nothing more but help her.
Nancy was a destructive force on her family and nearly tore them apart.
Nancy's family tried to get her help so many times and had the doors slammed in their faces.
As Nancy become more destructive to her family they are faced with an impossible choice, to let her continue to live at home or let her take her chances living on her own.
This mother's story is poignant and touching.
The Sex Pistols were the first band I was ever really obsessed with and like most of their fans, I hated Nancy.
From everything said about her by the remaining band members to people who hung out with The Pistols, I considered her to be the punk Yoko Ono.This book was written by her mother.
Nancy was most famous for her relationship with Sid Vicious (the Sex Pistols' bass player), who stabbed her to death in the Chelsea Hotel in 1978 (he died of an overdose before the case came to trial.) "And I Don't Want To Live This Life" is the story of Nancy's life as written by her mother and it is truly a harrowing one.
By the time the end came I felt some relief for her - at least her suffering was over.
I was living in Japan at the time and was finding English-language books hard to come by.
I don't think it was even a book store.
This is a book about murder, specifically, the murder of Nancy Spungen at the hands of Sid Vicious, but it is also about the small murders that Nancy encountered from her mental illness, and the insufficient medical system in place in her time to deal with her disease.
It is a moving story told by Nancy's mother, and while the narrative can become mechanical sometimes, Deborah Spungen's courageous insight regarding the trauma of a parental caregiver to a mentally ill child, and a survivor of family murder (in the literal and symbolic sense) are powerful and fresh.
This was one of the hardest books to read - as a mother and as a woman. It was heart wrenching to read the very private side of a very public story. I applaud Debbie for writing this book and sharing her story and "her Nancy" with the world. This was a book club pick that I would probably never have picked up otherwise but am sure glad I did. I made so many highlights and notes while I read in anticipation of what will certainly be a fabulous discussion at book club this coming week.
Courtney Love was not the first Borderline personalitied junkie to attempt to usurp the underground! The handwringing in this book is stellar; no wonder the child was so crazy. GREAT BEACH READ and cautionary tale for those of you with teenage girls!
This one: Deborah Spungen, mother of the infamous Nancy, whose only claim to fame was and still is her two-year relationship with and subsequent alleged murder by British punker Sid Vicious of the Sex Pistols.
And I Don’t Want to Live This Life is Deborah’s account of Nancy’s deeply troubled life, from a traumatic birth experience to her prophetic death before the age of twenty-one.
The popular diagnoses change, but the legend of Sid and Nancy lives on…even today, thirty years after their tragic deaths, fans emulate them both and even have facebook pages in their honor.
This is the book that inspired a lot of my own writing.
I've lost my original copy and haven't read it for years, so not sure how I would respond to it now.
But at the time it blew me away.
It is the story of an ordinary womamn - an ordinary American family - who had to deal with something extraordinary and impossibly heartbreaking in their lives.
After I read this I knew that I want to write about extraordinary things happening to ordinary people, rather than trying to create larger than life characters for my fiction.
For example, why dye her hair after she has died?
This book paints a bad picture of punks and the Sex Pistols when in fact, it was mainly Nancy's problems that influenced Sid Vicious to be the way he was.
Nancy started using drugs when she was very young and in many ways her death was inevitable.Also, I found some parts that made me question the rest of the book.
For example, repeatedly referring to Johnny Lyman (I assume she meant John Lydon)and this made me wary of other parts of her research as this is a really basic bit of research with error.
let me just say first that Nancy's mom should definatly get the award for best mother because after reading this book and all the stuff she had to go through since day one I do not see how she did it without having a freaking heart attack.
This book scared the shit out of me being a mother myself, it's hard to read what another mother had to go through.
I do however think this is the best book I have read in years it kept me interested and I could not put it down.
The main thing I took away is the knowledge that although the Spungen family had a pool, they were not rich. Got that? NOT RICH! No matter what the press said! Regular old American family! Also, the fact that the author, Nancy's beleaguered mother, had "no time for the luxury of tears." I hear that! I'm slightly bitter about this book because after I read it, my mother confiscated it, issuing the accusation that I wanted to be "just like Nancy Spungen." Oh, please! I look terrible as a blond.
If you wonder what it's like to have an out-of-control child, and then what's it is like to have her become a famous murder victim, this is the book for you. I feel great pity for Ms. Spungen, but I can't help but think that the end of her daughter's life throws the rest of it into the worst possible light. Had she and Sid survived another decade, settled down, and raised some kids, that rebellious youth would feel very different.RIP Nancy.
I rated this book so high for personal reasons. Nancy sounds like me in so many ways and I believe she may have had Borderline Personality Disorder as well. Mrs. Spungen tried to be as unbiased as she could be as a mother while giving as much detail about the tragic life of her daughter and one of punk's most visible icons, however undeserved that title may be.
It was riveting. I can't remember even noticing the prose but the story of a mother struggling to come to terms with the loss of her always troubled but charismatic and beloved child is vivid even years after finishing it. The end is not an end; there is no real end to this kind of grief.
Getting back to this one now after getting distracted with some other reads.
this is one of the most harrowing, hard to read books i know of. nancy spungen was troubled from her very birth. this is written by her mom and it is truly, truly heartbreaking.
And I don't want to live this life   I was real unhappy with the way this started out.....I felt the mother was very selfish, whiney, and crying for attention I honestly feel if they (her parents felt she was disturbed.... They would have got her help... Put her in a home... Not keep putting her in bringing her out... (view spoiler)[ They knew she was manipulative (hide spoiler)]) She put Nancy 1st! Above all...she even admits she looks over her other 2 children and husband to keep Nancy happy.
(Just sad) I had always had a bad idea on her...(like most people thought she was the "Punk Yoko Ono" just a obnoxious "Punk-Rock Princess" she was a baby that was looking for an outlet...) she was a pretty girl..
)As toxic as the relationship was I do think that they "loved" each other in there own way...I know both were terrible with relationships (view spoiler)[ Nancy confused sex with love.
(hide spoiler)] I thought wow his mother who was all the boy had knew how much she meant to her boy...
When I saw this book in my college library I was hooked because it was a real story and when I found out that it is the story about Nancy Spungen the girlfriend of the guitarist of Sex Pistols Sid Vicious,Ii took the book to read it.
The ending of this story is terribly amazing, I just couldn't stop crying, and it was the first book that I actually cried while reading.
I'm grateful to Deborah Spungen for writing this book and sharing her story and her daughter's story with us.So thank you Deborah Spungen.And I love Sid and Nancy.I also recommend everyone to read this book.

Nauseating Nancy, of Sid and Nancy fame, was actually schizophrenic.
Mental health services for young people with psychosis (especially at the time Nancy was in the system, but in some cases today as well) can be woefully inadequate to help patients and their families contend with the heartbreak and frustration they face on a daily basis.
Nancy Spungen was "nauseating" because she was sick.
It can be a hard book to read, especially when one considers the quality of life that may have been possible for this very bright young woman and her family if she'd had access to informed therapy and medications available today.
I used to read this book a lot in high school and it made me think of it the other night. So I went through my boxes out in the shop and found it. I forgotten how much I loved this book. I loved the 'Sex Pistols' and I felt for Nancy. I don't read a lot of biography's or Autobiography but this is such an amazing and sad read if you get the chance and love music. Then give this book a try.
I love this book.
I just plain love it.
The mother's pain, love, and hard work.
Nancy's siblings and the pain she caused them.
Her parent's marriage and how they made it through it all.How Sid was so devoted to her that he killed her.This book has so many controversial topics, and I love bringing it up as to further support my opinions.Mental illness, assisted suicide, family issues, and the differences between love and lust.Even more interesting, I find, is that it's told from her mother's perspective.
I believe any of us could believe that Nancy is troubled--but it's truly amazing to hear it from the person who gave birth to her.
I'm totally not into punk music and still this book was absolutely fascinating.
I almost had to stop reading it in the beginning because Nancy's behavior was so super disturbing that I was getting freaked out that someday I'd have a kid like this.
But I absolutely couldn't stop reading it.
I thought that it was well written and you really feel bad for her parents and family for all the stuff that she put them through.
Hopefully the mental health care system is better now and children and parents don't have to go through such torture anymore.
I read this book as a teenager and I think it was probably the heaviest book I read at that age.
Nancy's life was so far from mine (I was a nerdy girl who loved books and studying and folk dancing...as I still do) that it was hard for me to understand that people could actually experience something like this.
Still, I think this book was good for me.
And looking back, I think it might be a part of why I later developed an interest in social problems, social change and social work.
