https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18295852-the-geography-of-you-and-me
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/1 Star with a bonus  Star for a good cover/title.WARNING: I SPOIL THE CRAP OUT OF THIS BOOKLucy is super emo because her parents are never around and she’s friendless. (How do you avoid the oft present “we’re dealing with teenagers, where the hell are the parents” question? Well, this book just ships the parents off to Paris, leaving their 16 year old daughter at home in New York City all alone. Problem solved.)  Owen is super emo sinc
Well, this book just ships the parents off to Paris, leaving their 16 year old daughter at home in New York City all alone.
Owen is super emo since his mom recently passed away and his father moved them to New York City.
I guess I’m supposed to leave that one as an “it is what it is” type of situation and let them go ahead on the highway to hell their merry way.Lucy’s father ends up getting a job in Edinburgh, Scotland and her parents decide they finally give enough of a shit about their daughter to buy the poor girl a plane ticket and allow her to cohabitate with them.
This is usually the common theme among light YA romance contemporaries and The Geography of You and Me is no exception.
Smith once again managed to make a cliché-ish theme work out just fine because of her beautiful writing and her vivid descriptions making the reader feel and see the places the characters go to.
My usual complaint in her stories though is the use of the POV.
I feel like the dual POV would have made the story and the characters more relatable.
But as it is, it’s a quick, enjoyable and wholesome read fans of YA contemporary romance would still be able to appreciate.
"A blackout in New York City brings together two teenagers in Jennifer E. Smith's new romantic YA novel."Let me tell you one thing, in my opinion Jennifer E. Smith is one of the best YA authors ever (+1 for the fact that she is a nerdfighter). Her books are just awesomesauce and they may not float everyone's boat but hell to the YES they make me feel all fluffy inside so long story short: I CAN'T WAIT TO READ THIS BOOK!
SPOILER FREE REVIEW: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-K6on...3.75*This book was basically just what I needed: a mindless, cute, fun romance that was just really easy to read. I see my reading slump coming to an end very very soon.
I adore these books of hers and each one is like a little escape into a fairy-tale kind of perfect romance story.
While The Geography of You and Me may be my least favorite of hers, it's far from a disappointment!If you're a fan of this author you pretty much know what to expect when you get into one of her books.
Smith book that I would recommend to all you hopeless romantics who want to not only escape, but travel the world with Lucy and Owen.
Not this time Smith... Not this time.
2.5 STARSThe point wasn’t the distance. It was the homecoming. God, I just love that sentiment.And I truly felt that this had a lot of beautiful moments and heartfelt intentions that just got lost in that thick bog of mediocrity with a droning narrative, a climax-less plot, a pair of charmless protagonists and the non-existent chemistry between them. In yet another exercise in frustration, this wasn’t offensively bad, but the stilted potential just shoves the disappointment obnoxiously THERE. F
Maybe I missed the point to it all but alternating her chapters walking through the streets of Paris and Rome with her parents, while Owen’s dishwashing in a Mexican restaurant as his dad gets repeatedly rejected for jobs… Is this book even trying to make me LIKE the girl?
I had to pause and try to remember anything else about Lucy apart from her non-problems because these were all there was to her character.For a while I liked how this was quite faithful in the depiction of the struggles in a long distance relationship (a friendship by technicality, rather).
Adorable and quite emotional! The Geography of You and Me is mostly descriptive - it shows snippets of moments suspended in time, it describes deep emotions, and still the author managed to 'show' not simply to 'tell' and I was soon very much in love with the beauty of this story.There was so much that I loved about it:- their first meeting, even the one in San Francisco, with the fiasco ending;- the insights into their lives, their personal struggles with family or friends;- the cards, so meani
The Geography of You and Me is mostly descriptive - it shows snippets of moments suspended in time, it describes deep emotions, and still the author managed to 'show' not simply to 'tell' and I was soon very much in love with the beauty of this story.There was so much that I loved about it:- their first meeting, even the one in San Francisco, with the fiasco ending;- the insights into their lives, their personal struggles with family or friends;- the cards, so meaningful and cute;- how they felt about each place they traveled to, about the people they met on the way;- how they gravitated towards each other no matter what.And most of all...
Weee! 2014 is going to be a great year!
Goodness.
With all the fluffiness and cuteness in the world.It all starts off with a sudden blackout in the city...Have you ever imagined a city with No electricity, No connections, and Only darkness...A city only lit by the moon and stars...The story's realistic and relatable and the story itself is what makes the whole book seems so adorable.Crossed path of two young people.
Blackout.
Separation.
Travels.
Settlement.
Meet up of two young people at last.Song:See you again"We've come a long way, from where we began, oh I'll tell you all about it when I see you again."Fav quote:
There was no insta-love which is always a good thing.
I think that Owen & Lucy really did have a connection and I liked how even though they moved away and were with other people, they still thought of each other often.
The writing was okay.
Sometimes I thought that Jennifer E.
Smith was trying too hard to write something profound and it just didn't work.
Her writing didn't grab me and my attention wandered a bit but like I said, her writing was okay.
I would recommend this to my friends who like reading this cute fluffy stuff.
(This review has been edited to include an addendum, which will hopefully illustrate what I mean by "bad writing"). After reading & falling in love with Laura Kaye's Hearts in Darkness, I jumped at the chance to read another novel about two strangers who are trapped in an elevator in the middle of a citywide blackout. I was hoping that The Geography of You & Me would be a Young Adult (PG-13) version of Hearts in Darkness.  Sadly, however, the only similarity between these two novels IS
After reading & falling in love with Laura Kaye's Hearts in Darkness, I jumped at the chance to read another novel about two strangers who are trapped in an elevator in the middle of a citywide blackout.
Sadly, however, the only similarity between these two novels IS the broken elevator.To say that I'm disappointed in The Geography of You & Me would be a huge understatement.
"I would prefer not to."*2/5 stars*BTW, if you're looking for a good novel by this particular author, then I would wholeheartedly recommend The Statistical Probability of Love at First Sight.
Addendum: Here is an excerpt from the novel.
Jennifer E. Smith represents the absolute best in YA writing, and readers will carry this poignant love story in their hearts far after the last sentence is read.
"His eyes caught hers through the darkness and the elevator felt suddenly smaller than it had been minutes ago." I am becoming increasingly frustrated with YA contemporaries of late. Ever since the success of Anna and the French Kiss, there have been an influx of the same cookie-cutter romance, with their own brand of a unique 'twist', but reads more like a sad imitation of Meg Cabot in her heyday. The Geography of You and Me falls into the same trap, except it cut more because I was expecting,
It reads like a fucking script) and, "Oh my God, I can't so thinking about him/her!" It screams the kind of quirky that might work in a chick flick, but here it only comes off as cheesy and unrealistic.Part of the reason is because it's written in third-person and I felt so apart from the leads, even though it's told in dual POV.
Once you hit the IDGAF point, there's no going back.And I zoned out whenever Lucy and Owen would meet in person to try to 'further' their long-distance relationship.

5 Words: Postcards, e-mail, family, moving, travelling.This was quite a sweet story, and I quite liked it.But it was quite... Well. How many times have I just used that word?As lovely as this story was, I don't think it's something that's really gonna stick with me. Sure, it was sweet and enjoyable, but there was nothing truly stand-out about it, nothing that would compel me to read again.It was something nice to pass the time, but something that I've also quite forgotten by the time I started to write the review a week later.
The Geography of You and Me was a cute contemporary read.
Unfortunately I wasn't too invested in the characters and I've never been the biggest fan of instalove but I thoroughly enjoyed the vivid descriptions of each individual city and country this book travelled to.
Having now read a few of Jennifer E.
For me, it didn't flow as smoothly and have the same fun, quick dialogue as the previous books I've read of hers.
However, this was a cute read and I'm always all for anything with a stargazing on a New York rooftop scene!
هيچوقت دو كتاب از دوتا نويسنده امريكايى رو پشت سر هم نخونيد. :-D . ممكنه بعضو وقتا دلتنگ بشين براى عشق هاى دوره نوجوانى يا دلتون كتابى ميخواد كه اميدوارتون كنه هنوز هم عشق وجود داره، كتاب بدى نبود در كل اما من كلا از رمان هاى امريكايى خسته شدم چون اول اگر بمانم حالا هم اين كتاب. نميدونم چرا كلا ديگه اين ماجراهاى عاشقونه و اينا خيلى بهم كيف نميده ولى برا كسى كه اين موضوعات واينا براش جذابه كتاب دلچسب و قشنگيه.
Rating: 3.5I actually really ended up enjoying this book. It’s a nice fluffy contemporary.
3,5"Sonunda kitap bitirdim." cümlesindeki mutluluk gözyaşlarını bulunuz.
But I like books that have a point...you know, besides One True Love.
But the only thing I really felt was accomplished in The Geography of You and Me was a love story.
(THE GEOGRAPHY OF YOU AND ME)  That saying, I do love travel stories.
It starts off in New York, and the description was so vivid I basically felt like I was in New York.
I loved lots of stuff in this book, yes, but...frankly I was bored.
The only conflict was the oceans in between our two desperate lovers.
Well, maybe not "desperate lovers".
Just...I love you?
Wat ik zo typisch vind aan dit boek is dat ik eigenlijk niet eens het gevoel heb dat het over zulke jonge mensen gaat.
Natuurlijk zijn er de aanwijzingen dat ze jong zijn, maar door de manier van schrijven hadden het ook midden twintigers kunnen zijn.
Prachtig, ontroerend, treffend en feelgood boek.Soms kom je van die boeken tegen waarvan het jammer is dat je laatste pagina omdraait, dan wil je meer en meer en nog meer.
Dat is precies mijn gevoel wanneer ik dit boek dichtsla.
Daardoor heb ik mijn rating toch nog veranderd naar 3 sterren.
Het verhaal was echt niet slecht hoor, maar dit is ook geen boek dat me nog weken bij zal blijven.Ik vond het begin echt heel erg leuk en daardoor werd ik enorm enthousiast voor dit verhaal.
Lucy en Owen zijn wel echt leuk en dat maakte het verhaal toch een beetje goed.
(view spoiler)[ Natuurlijk weet je dat Owen en Lucy ooit bij elkaar weer gaan komen en daar lees je gewoon naartoe ipv dat er nog spannende dingen gebeuren  (hide spoiler)] Ondanks de voorspelbaarheid, was het toch wel een schattig einde hoor.
Have you ever finished a book and felt as though not a lot happened during the story?
Well, that’s how I feel about The Geography of You and Me and, I’m starting to feel as though maybe I’m just not meant to enjoy any of Smith’s work.
It’s about two teenagers – Lucy and Owen – who live in the same apartment complex but they don’t meet until they find themselves stuck inside an elevator together after the electricity is New York City goes out.
Like I said the premise of this story is super cute – but that’s probably about it all it has to offer.
Hmm... not sure yet. Jennifer E. Smith still hasn't wrote a book that wows me. Maybe this will be the one?
Smith managed to make the whole thing so believable and almost like a conscious thought that I was so lost and wrapped up in the whole story from chapter one; I couldn't have asked for anything better.Smith has produced some great characters in the past with Hadley and Oliver from The Statistical Probability of Love at First Sight, and I thought I couldn't love another sweet-talking, family guy like Oliver, but Smith surprised me with Owen, and gave me a damaged, yet caring and adventurous young man whom if I was a year younger, I'd have snapped up like a shot.
Lucy and Owen live in the same apartment building in New York but had never actually met one another until one day they end up in the same elevator when the power goes out.
After getting out of the elevator Lucy and Owen spend an amazing night together while waiting out the blackout.
Unfortunately for this pair other circumstances end up splitting them apart as each of their families make plans to leave New York.
Both young teens in the story it seemed more realistic to me that at least one of them would have just moved on when leaving New York.
This book was such a fun and cute read, one that I just wanted to keep picking up to finish and see how it ended. Long distance would be so hard but it is possible. I loved how Lucy and Owen had little in jokes and I loved that on there first post card to each other they wrote the same thing. They accidentally met but they couldn't forget each other after it and loved all the little post cards. I wish we still wrote post cards
Such a fun and cute contemporary! I loved the two main characters, as well as the duo POV's. The travel aspect was one of my favorite things about this book; I really enjoyed getting to read about London, Scotland, Paris, etc.I think that the story overall was well written and I'm looking forward to reading Jennifer's other novels. :)
2.5 StarsThink of a shiny, beautiful red balloon, inflated to capacity. All that promis!! And then, a slow leak. Ffffllllllluuubbbbppppp. That was the plot. Intriguing hook at the start, likable characters....but then it never really goes anywhere special. And everything falls flat. Oh well.
