https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6457081-remarkable-creatures
Some of my favorite things about Remarkable Creatures:1) Bathing machines!2) Fossils, of course.3) A regency era book about friendship between two women, rather than the marriage of some rehabilitated rake and some nubile.4) Elizabeth's characterization of people based upon what feature they "lead" with - eyes, hair, hands.
At first, I did not realize this was based on the stories of real people and the amazing discoveries of two women inlcuding the first ichthyosaur skeleton correctly identified.Very enjoyable and now I want to go to Lyme Regis with a little hammer and hunt for fossils.
And with all the Regency romances that are so popular, it's good to see a more realistic take on what women at that time could expect for love and marriage.[She] sank into spinsterhood beside Louise and me.There are worse fates.I was mildly irked by one plotline that seemed like a modern imposition on Regency society (and there's nothing in actual history to support this part of the story):(view spoiler)[Mary and Elizabeth both fall for the same older guy.
If she'd slept with the guy hoping to get him to marry her, that would have made more sense for those times.
And when she falls in love, it is with an impossible man.Luckily, Mary finds an unlikely champion in prickly Elizabeth Philpot, a recent exile from London, who also loves scouring the beaches.
Mary Anning and Elizabeth Philpot weren't the women of Jane Austen's novels, and they weren't subjected to the same constraints as those women were.
Mary Anning and Elizabeth Philpot fall in love with the same man.
Anning and Philpot lived in a time when the role of a woman was to be of service.
A gorgeously written story about fossils and friendship. Its rare gentleness makes it truly beautiful. The two audiobook narrators do an incredible job as well.
Another winner by Chevalier...I had never heard of Mary Anning and as I read this, it again dawned o
Remarkable Creatures is a beautifully written book about two remarkable women, Mary Anning and Elizabeth Philpot.
Poor, uneducated Mary Anning and middle-class, London-bred Elizabeth Philpot form what is considered an unconventional friendship, due to their differing social classes, based on their love of fossils and fossil hunting.
Elizabeth Philpot, due to her middle-class standing, was able to champion Mary in certain social and scientific circles.
In addition to the scientific and social narratives in Remarkable Creatures, Tracy Chevalier also examines the religious significance of the findings of these fossils.
This is the story of Mary Anning and Elizabeth Philpot, fossil collectors in England in the first half of the 19th century. Their gender and social class kept them from receiving the credit and recognition they deserved for their discoveries. Historical fiction with great characters and a very interesting subject. Tracy Chevalier is one of the best writers today in this genre.
The story is about Mary Anning, who lived in Lyme Regis and since she was a girl uncovered fossils of at the time unknown creatures.
Apart from that, if anybody is intrested in fossils and geology, this is a nice way to start.For me, it was specially intresting, because I live in the areaand will be able to go to Lyme Regis to follow Marys and Elisabeths traces.
And all this decades before Charles Darwin would publish that little known tome about the the origin of species.So, who, I hear you ask, are the two women?Well, the first one is Mary Anning, whom the Natural History Museum introduces as follows:"The greatest fossil hunter ever known was a woman from Lyme Regis.
Anyway, spurned by the move to Lyme Regis, Elizabeth becomes a fossil collector, too, and befriends Mary."How can a twenty-five-year-old middle-class lady think of friendship with a young working girl?
Mary Anning and Elizabeth Philpot are two real people and the two central characters of the book.
They finally feel like real people!
Better late than never!Through page 175: Half way through the book and finally something exciting has occurred.
Much of the book is about the religious consequences of fossil discovery.
All is very well depicted, but now, after 175 pages, this is the first time my heart has been beating rapidly.
I don't know!Maybe read the non-fiction bookThe Fossil Hunter: Dinosaurs, Evolution, and the Woman Whose Discoveries Changed the World if I want more after reading Remarkable Creatures.
Elizabeth Philpot, who came from a completely different social background and was at least twenty years Mary’s senior, but shared her interest in fossils (herself she collected fish fossils) befriended her and the two who collected fossils together made their fair share of contributions to science.
While this is a piece of fiction, and a lot of aspects, the scenes, the conversations that took place, the romances are imagined, some of the broad historical elements are real-life.I’d heard about this book years ago when I read a joint review of this one and Shelley Emling’s The Fossil Hunter, both of which focus on Anning, but I only managed to pick it up now (the Emling I still don’t have a copy of).
Mary Anning was one of those women in history who was not appreciated in her time and was given little or no credit for her remarkable talents.
At this moment in history, intellectual property was the purview of men, and if you have ever been treated with condescension from a person who knew less than you did on a subject, you will feel the frustration of these characters as they attempt to deal with the men who usurp their accomplishments.
What Chevalier is unearthing is really the history of man.
I saw her picture and the fossils she discovered at the Natural History Museum in London without ever realizing what a remarkable accomplishment it was.
This a book of historical fiction, so we do know that Mary Anning and Elizabeth Philpott lived off the coast of England and searched for fossils in the early 1800s.
What is conjecture is the story of the difficulties they faced at a time when women needed a man to communicate with the world.
The book talks about some of the conflicts they faced as they discovered things that contradicted their fundamentalist religion.I enjoyed the description of the way they cleaned and preserved the fossils.
Until this story, I had no idea who Mary Anning or Elizabeth Philpot were and how important their work was in the discovery of prehistoric creatures.
Their discoveries at the beginning of the 19th century came at the time when many tried to explain or reconcile geology with their religious beliefs when very idea of extinction was anathema because it suggested that God was imperfect.
“So every rock we see is as God created it at the beginning,” I persisted.
I think the title Remarkable Creatures is not only refers to the discovered fossils but the women who discovered them.
In the first place, I wanted to read this book because it handled about Mary Anning and her pioneering role in discovering and her knowledge in finding fossiles and some pre-historic fossilised animal skeletons in the nearness of Lyme Regis, England.
It also gave a good picture of the knowledge of geologists about fossils and fossilised skeletons.
The work of Mary Anning played an important part in discovering them and led to a important discourse in palaeontology.Very interesting to read, you really get transported to 1820's Lyme Regis, you get some interesting facts about palaeontology on the top and the telling was all right.
Here's an  animated sequence my friend Jill found of dialog from the historical novel Curiosity, by Joan Thomas, contrasting the perspectives of a typical 19th century Englishman with French naturalist and zoologist Georges Cuvier who doubted Anning's findings.Chevalier is not the only author to speculate about Anning's past and I will look forward to learning more about her life and times both in historical fiction,as well as from a variety of biographies.
I do think Chevalier is a capable storyteller, and I thought she handled the split narratives (the story is told alternately from Elizabeth's perspective, then Mary's) remarkably well.
It's really a fascinating story if you are interested in the progression of people's understanding of dinosaurs and/or the conflicts between established religious beliefs and new scientific discoveries.Ultimately, though, I just wasn't that caught up in the characters--which surprised me!
I was also frustrated with some of the changes in the friendship between Mary and Elizabeth--I am not sure whether this was true or artistic license, but I certainly hope that these otherwise thoughtful women would not be quite so silly and petty.
Does the world stop?No, of course not, life goes on, sometimes for the better, sometimes for the worse.Remarkable Creatures focuses on two women who search for fossils - one so she can eat, the other out of curiosity.
When they find a fossil that contradicts religion's view of the origins of the earth, the practical appreciates the money and added business fame brings and the curious are concerned, dissatisfied by the priest's response, but keeps going in the hopes of finding an answer.
If only all history texts could do that.
I also like the way they share a strange passion: to collect fossils on the English shores, meanwhile the whole community goes crazy about these strange pair walking unaccompanied on the beach searching for "stones" .
I found the "hunting, cleaning and collecting" process fascinating, so don't be put off by some readers' comments regarding this issue, as Chevalier manages to make a potentially weary subject into an engaging one with her humble and natural style.I was, in addition, delighted to learn that these characters were actually real people and that this story, even though a work of fiction, might come close to what their lives might have been like.
When Sue said we were going to read a book about a spinster who collects fossils on an English beach in the 19th century for our next book club meeting, I was not thrilled.
Well, here I am three days after I finally picked it up, and I have to say that it was a truly great read.This is not a fast-moving story.
And I also loved Mary and had a great deal of sympathy for her as well.
This book club is pretty interesting.
But I keep taking those books home and giving them a shot.
But I'll be taking a copy home after book club in a few weeks.
Take one passionate writer of historical fiction and fan of strong female characters and pair her up with Remarkable Creatures by Tracy Chevalier and you will create pure bliss.
The writing is strong and honest and suggestive of the time and I was fascinated to learn how two "spare parts" (spinster women) made such a huge difference in the late 1800s' studies of paleontology.
This book has me wanting to book a ticket to Lyme Regis, as well as to read more about these two remarkable women.My only gripe about this book is that I finished it before my long flight from North Carolina home was complete.
Remarkable Creatures is a remarkable book!
3★ Updated July 2016It was better written than I'd given it credit for, and I'd like to add this quotation to give a sense of her style.The story opened with such promise and this description of how Mary was affected by being struck by lightning as a baby.  “The lightning killed the woman holding me, and two girls standing next to her, but I survived. They say I was a quiet, sickly child before the storm, but after it, I grew up lively and alert. I cannot say if they’re right, but the memory of
3★ Updated July 2016It was better written than I'd given it credit for, and I'd like to add this quotation to give a sense of her style.The story opened with such promise and this description of how Mary was affected by being struck by lightning as a baby.
It was an interesting way to learn about the fossils discovered by Mary Anning and her relationship with Elizabeth Philpott, but for me, the fictionalised account of what might have been the rest of their story wasn't equally interesting.The author certainly writes descriptively enough about the coast, the people and the wild weather to make you glad you're not out there digging with them, being lashed by wind and rain.
Chevalier does a wonderful job of filling in those gaps and bringing the life of this amazing woman to the spotlight.With the exception of one aspect that drove me insane...About 2/3rds of the way through, the story shifts suddenly from fossil hunting and historical scientific context against the backdrop of an unlikely friendship to a friendship in tatters due to man drama.
Ms. Chevalier did the very subject of her book a disservice.Okay, off my soapbox.Overall, a wonderful book about yet another amazing woman in history and science that I was previously unaware of.
And for an uneducated, working class girl to be at the center of all of this discovery in a man's world was equally surprising.This was an interesting, easy to read book about Mary Anning, a fossil hunter from the early 1800s in Lyme, England and her - sort of - contributions to the discovery of ichthyosaurus and pleisiosaurus (and a third one whose name I don't recall) - but the story Chevalier told was less about Mary Anning's overlooked contributions (the first "Ichie" and the third creature were actually found by others) and more about the friendship (and rivalry) between Mary Anning and another female fossil hunter from the same region/time named Elizabeth Philpot.
I expected a story about fossil hunting and the tension between religion and science and attitudes towards women first, told through the lens of female friendship.
She knew that I was interested in anything about Mary Anning and wanted to make sure I would read "Remarkable Creatures".Mary Anning was a fossil hunter in the early 1800's when scientists were just beginning to unlock the mysteries of those strange bones and fragments found on the beaches and cliffs of Lyme Regis.
Elizabeth Philpot meets Mary Anning when she and her sisters moved to Lyme Regis.
Mary showed Elizabeth how to hunt for fossils on the beaches and they develop a life-long friendship that is tested by time and pride.
Creature Notevoli: Tracy Chevalier fa l'occhiolino a Jane Austen?Le due protagoniste, Mary Anning ed Elizabeth Philpot, due persone realmente esistite, la prima appartenente alla classe operaia, la seconda benestante, si dedicano sulla spaggia di Lyme Regis, ai primi dell''800, alla ricerca di fossili, la prima per venderli, la seconda per i suoi studi.
Inoltre, come spiega la Chevalier nel poscritto, Jane Austen si recò davvero a Lyme Regis nel Settembre del 1904 e incontrò realmente Richard Anning, il padre di Mary, a cui chiese di riparare il coperchio di una cassa, come scrisse in una lettera alla sorella, ma l'uomo le chiese troppo e la Austen si rivolse altrove.
Inizia come un romanzo di Jane Austin, un po’ claustrofobico fra salotti pianoforti nastri e merletti e tuttavia è interessante, perché racconta in modo abbastanza vivido la vita delle donne inglesi nel 1820 e lo spazio che era loro consentito dalla società.
La bambina è Mary Anning e nel corso della sua vita farà straordinarie scoperte di fossili di animali preistorici che scuoteranno fortemente la comunità scientifica e l’opinione pubblica.
Nel 2010 La Royal Society ha messo Mary Anning fra le 10 donne inglesi che hanno contribuito maggiormente alla storia della scienza.
Старая дева подружилась с дочкой плотника, и они вместе ищут на берегу моря окаменелости. Кто бы мог подумать, что это окажется так захватывающе.
Remarkable Creatures by Tracy Chevalier is a quiet reflective fictionalized story of Mary Anning and Elizabeth Philpot, two very different women of different social backgrounds who shared a passion for fossil hunting at the turn of the century.
Chevalier gives a voice to these mostly unknown women whose contributions added greatly to the study of extinct animals, paleontology, in a time when men did not recognize a woman’s skill nor expertise, and had no qualms about stealing both the fossils and the credit of acquisition.
Also, Tracy Chevalier, whose previous books I've very much enjoyed, tries to pack so much into this book - religious and philosophical questions at a time when general beliefs were being upheaved, historical events, romance and the lack thereof, and class- and gender-based prejudices - that all of it feels bland and dull.
They might be dull and bland, and I might not have connected with them, but they still feel real, and not only because they were actually historical characters.
