https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/117336.The_Pill_vs_the_Springhill_Mine_Disaster
"I feel horrible. She doesn'tlove me and I wander aroundthe house like a sewing machinethat's just finished sewing a turd to a garbage can lid."The instagram poetry of its time! I'm unsure whether or not I enjoy it on an ironic level!
i loved telling everyone there and my parents that this education would clearly not do, the beginning of a litany of bad decisions i would make over the course of the next several years.
it was the first perfectly warm spring day which had everything to do with my final decision there was no way i could be locked in a box on a day like that.
i carried this book with me everywhere for four years and gave it to the next man that made me feel something quite similiar.
Of the load of books I read on my 2-week vacation this summer, this is the one I enjoyed most.
It's a collection of mostly short poems that are overall funny and endearing.
I also like the "versus" poems - "The Pill versus the Springhill Mine Disaster," "General Custer versus the Titanic," etc.
Believe it or not it's my first go at a book by Brautigan, although I've read a lot ABOUT him and remember well when he committed suicide in the 80s because at the time I was majoring in English at college.
Brautigan quickly became my favorite poet as soon as I read a few poems from this book.
I know some people do not like the poems that seem "lazy" but those are the poems that make me love him even more.
Some are so simple, and the mere fact that he has turned something so matter of fact into a poem makes me sigh in amazement.
I know poetry means creating a masterpiece.
But sometimes poetry means seeing things for what they are.
Making people laugh.
Anyway, I think if the people who say "Ugh poetry is so boring!
UNEVEN POEMS/reviewed unevenlyBrautigan's words jump like a funky beat poet in ways I can supportI loved TFiA and see seasons of potentialon the table of this book, but manypoems casually  rolled  onto  the floor (for me) uneaten.
'It's Raining in Love' is probably my all time favorite single poem at the moment as it is one of the most relatable things I have ever read (*cries socially awkward, shy, timid tears*). As for the rest of this collection, it remains quite consistently entertaining, humorous, and amusingly surreal throughout, which is not at all surprising considering these are all poems straight from the brilliant comic mind of Richard Brautigan, one of the strangest and funniest writers I have ever come across, and also one of the very best.
IT'S RAINING IN LOVEI don't know what it is, but I distrust myself when I start to like a girl a lot.
If I say, "Do you think it's going to rain?" and she says, "I don't know," I start thinking: Does she really like me?
A friend of mine once said, "It's twenty times better to be friends with someone than it is to be in love with them." I think he's right and besides, it's raining somewhere, programming flowers and keeping snails happy.
A friend of mine had a glance at this book and said something that gave me an idea: if they had twitter back then, Brautigan's tweets would be like the poems you find in this book!I usually don't read poetry. I started reading this book because it is a Brautigan book and found quite a few of its poems brilliant. As nothing is perfect, this book has plain and mediocre poems as well.
I read this book again today after more than a thirty year distance from the last time we visited. Not so hotsy totsy. But it was "ok". Unfortunately, by reading this a second time around old Richard lost a star in my ranking. I think his novels will hold up better.
One of my favorite all-time poetry reads. Brautigan's poetic worldview is unique, uncluttered, and remarkably non-pretentious.... and sticks to your ribs all the more for it.
Best poetry I've ever read. His metaphors borderline between completely bizarre to beautiful. Sometimes hit or miss, but when it hits, it hits so hard.
Death by mine disaster vs. conception denied by chemistry, neither win as life and its vagaries triumph in Brautigan's poetry.
The Pill Vs. The Springhill Mine Disaster is essentially a collection of the poems that Brautigan had written up until the late 60s and, indeed, showcases some of his strongest work.
I have heard that Loading Mercury with a Pitchfork contains even stronger work and is a largely overlooked masterpiece of Brautigan poetry so look forward to checking that one out around Xmas time.
I highly recommend this is as a generous and wide 'sampler' of Brautigan's witty but at times perplexing poetry.
But at the end of the day, Brautigan is quite simply incomparable and inimitable - one person who truly deserves the label 'unique'.
There is something about reading Brautigan that reignites my flame for poetry. I'll be on a poetry kick for the next week.
A book of poems, the best of which (for me) are the titles funny, clever, quirky. They are mostly love poems and/or paeans to his long blonde lover. There was a fun series of nine or so poems with Baudelaire as central character; and, a few with Hamlet, Ophelia, too. It is a Beat style collection more free flow riffs than anything. The kind of poems to pass around between friends reading aloud at campfire whilst getting high on whatever. Just fun.
I live in the Twentieth Centuryand you lie here beside me. Youwere unhappy when you fell asleep.There was nothing I could do about it. I felt helpless. Your faceis so beautiful that I cannot stopto describe it, and there's nothingI can do to make you happy while you sleep.
5, since I couldn't rate it lower because of "Star Hole"
2.5 eh some of these were good-great most were just ok-bad
All Watched Over by Machines of Loving Grace I like to think (andthe sooner the better!)of a cybernetic meadowwhere mammals and computerslive together in mutuallyprogramming harmonylike pure watertouching clear sky. I like to think     (right now, please!)of a cybernetic forestfilled with pines and electronicswhere deer stroll peacefullypast computersas if they were flowerswith spinning blossoms. I like to think     (it has to be!)of a cybernetic ecologywhere we are free of our laborsand joined back to nature,returned to our mammalbrothers and sisters,and all watched overby machines of loving grace.
It's like Bukowski and Pound had a love child in the 50's and this is that child's note book as he falls in love in the 60's and 70's. Very terse, often simple, sometimes funny, sometimes touchingly vulgar, Brautigan's poetry is simple yet redolent with meaning. His love poems show clear devotion, his nature poems also incorporate his fascination with technology, his...random? poems capture the minutiae of random moments of boredom, of time-killing. The imagery is often dream like and colorful, and makes for a delightful quick read, like a psychedelic colored swirl scoop of gelato.
Re-read most of this today on a short bus trip around town so I'd have something of Brautigan's to talk about for a writing activity I'm taking part in this month. I love his work and am always amazed at things I pick up that I didn't remember from the last time I read it. His wit and charm don't feel too dated; at least maybe not as dated as one would think maybe it should be. He's not for everyone but you'll know within a few pages that he's perfect for you (or...isn't).
I thought I would be more impressed with Richard Brautigan. There is a gentleness about him, a sort of tender melancholy, a loneliness that touches the heart. Some poems are indeed lovely, but to me, most aren't memorable."A friend came over to the housea few days ago and read one of my poems.He came back today and asked to read thesame poem over again. After he finishedreading it, he said, "It makes me wantto write poetry."
I grew up during the '60's, 70's and a pen pal from Santa Rosa, CA turned me on to reading Richard's work. I owned and read everyone I could get my hands on, hoping one day for that big house that would have a library in it displaying all of the books I have read. Richard's collection would be among this wonderful display of floor to ceiling books. Ever so grateful to have been able to own his works and to have enjoyed reading them all!
A short collection and easy read, but it didn't do anything for me. Brautigan's prose is so poetic and surreal and has such unexpected metaphors that I guess I was hoping to see those skills come through even brighter in his poetry, but these poems are the opposite---straight forward thoughts that, as another reviewer aptly described, read kind of like a twitter feed. Whatever he was looking for in writing them, it's not what I'm looking for right now.
Don't think there's any poem in this book that will be unable to stir even the coldest of hearts.
I preferred the short statement like observations over the more surreal stuff. Got a rare copy of Rommel Drives Deep into Egypt which I'm going to read next.
Re-read after about 10 or 15 years -- probably more, actually. Some good poems, many not-so-good, but it's over quick and overall entertaining.
His poetry shines. His poems are often funny and absurd. His best poem in my mind Haiku Ambulance.
All my copies are back in the States, unreadable and ostensibly unloved, boxed or shelved, probably collecting dust bunnies — attractive, good-humored bunnies who've got some nerve congregating on out-of-reach books.
Only Brautigan could see the philosophic beauty in this anonymous piece:San FranciscoBy accident, you putYour money in my Machine (#4)By accident, I putMy money in anotherMachine (#6)On purpose, I putYour clothes in the Empty machine fullOf water and noClothesIt was lonely.The most brilliant section of the entire book, however, is "THE GALILEE HITCH-HIKER," a compilation of nine poems that feature Baudelaire.
The first poem has Baudelaire driving a Model A across Galilee and picking up a hitch-hiker named Jesus.I will end this review with the opening poem of the entire collection, "All Watched Over by Machines of Loving Grace," because it is was not only reflective of a society at the dawn of the computer and space era but also a foreshadowing of today's increasingly techno-virtual-Matrix reality.
