https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/492920.Sharpe_s_Sword
I need something to distinguish between the different episodes, in my quest to read all the Sharpe books chronologically.
The quest is started when this officer, a dangerous killing machine named Colonel Leroux, breaks his parole, kills a couple of Sharpe's friends and escapes into the besieged city of Salamanca.
For now Wellington gets the lion's share of the glory.Sharpe comes out well out of the scramble, not surprisingly since I know how many more books are left in the series.
For a new reader who only starts with the Sharpe novels, this one could go four stars or more.I will continue with the Cornwell series.
...must be constantly playing in Cornwell's head as he churns out these adequate historical fiction novels following rough-and-tumble ensign Richard Sharpe as he rises from the ranks of the British army with Wellington's fight against Napoleon as the backdrop and his own personal struggles as the focal point.
On the other hand, Sharpe is guaranteed to come across a lovely, often well-bred lady who inevitably succumbs to his rugged charm.
The Napoleonic Wars don't get much more entertaining than this!
Книгите от тази серия ми харесват все повече.При все, че има очевидна матрица при писането им, авторът се е справил отлично и реалните събития са така добре вградени в измислените, до степен да бъдат трудно различими.В "Сабята на Шарп" има всичко, за което един ценител на военните истории може да мечтае - славни и кръвопролитни битки, безмилостен враг, шпионаж, интриги и пълнокръвна любовна история. Но над всички участващи, грее звездата на безмилостния професионален войник, капитан Ричард Шарп!Чисто удоволствие!
My eighth Sharpe book still follows the same formula but I just love them all the more.Set in the summer of 1812, the life of Britain’s most important spy is at stake.
Sharpe has been given the task of ensuring their safety by finding the dangerous Colonel Philippe Leroux, who knows the identity of the spy and will stop at nothing to silence them.
A cast of characters including the lovely Hélène, La Marquesa de Casares el Grande y Melida Sadaba (no Sharpe novel would be complete without a beautiful, unattainable woman), Captain Jack Spears, Father Curtis and Marshal Marmont flesh out the tale.A close brush with death, the discovering of an unlikely traitor and the usual cast make this one of the best Sharpe’s books I’ve read so far.
Another fine outing for Cornwell’s hero, topped and tailed by some impressively described battle scenes, but the heart of the book lies in the story in the middle.
Of course, Sharpe fits well into this story, and Cornwell keeps things moving at a breakneck speed with tons of action, romance and danger.
SHARPE'S SWORD is one of the grisliest of the series, with Leroux’s method of escape from detection particularly appalling, but the strength of the story lies in the character motivations which are inventive, original and all ring true as usual.

Adding a spy hunt to the expected military action raises the stakes without detracting from the pace. A fine addition to Sharpe's catalog of adventures.
More fighting and seemingly insurmountable problems for Richard Sharpe. This time he's in Salamanca where he gets involved in espionage that unsurprisingly involves a beautiful woman. Sharpe suffers grievous wounding from the owner of the sword in the title, and as ever, provides a lynch pin in turning around a massive battle at the end. And despite being an infantry officer, he's also involved in a cavalry attack on an enemy square. Only Sharpe could have such an illustrious military CV and still be alive.

Fairly typical of the series, good but not one of the very best in the series. If you like the series you would certainly not want to skip this book. If you are not entranced by the series this is one to skip.I am going through the whole series again, this time with audiobook versions (Oct 2015). Adding a bit to the above, there are technical errors in the story which annoy me and quite a bit of padding. It is a stretch to give it three stars, but I do really like the series as a whole.
A similar plot to Sharpe's Company, with a nigh-unkillable villain and a charge into the breach necessary to secure good fortune, but a more interesting rendition. Cornwell does have to give his villains the devil's luck, but in this book it's more believable that the capable and dastardly Leroux would be so blessed.
I have read the whole Sharpe series, and can highly recommend them. While Sharpe is a fictional character, the battles he fights in really took place (his career follows Lord Wellington's), and Cornwell's research into the historical setting is impressive. Reading these stories has brought this period of European history to life for me.
Excellent (and different from the TV version). Sharpe actually kills Spears, and I wish they'd shown the scene where Spears tells Sharpe he's got the "Black Lion" in the TV version :D The part where Harper makes and presents the sword to Sharpe is the best.
Richard Sharpe and the Salamanca Campaign, June and July 1812. I was seriously worried about Harper, and even Sharpe, his peril was that dire. I absolutely love Harper making Sharpe's sword: one of the best parts of the entire series.
Interesting that Sharpe can play a minor role yet the book is still worthwhile. I suppose this is because a series about a major military/political event can treat lots of issues. This time the main emphasis was on the spy system set up by both sides during the napoleonic Wars.
Never before has Captain Sharpe been this close to dieing.
These are all great. Some better than others of course, since there are maybe 20! I do not know how BC does it.
really enjoyed this, Paul Mcgan did a great job narrating and did a very good impression of Sean bean as Richard Sharpe! shakeout was abridged though someday I will read the book in full
For starters the amount of action is significantly less and Cornwell takes more care in knitting his “small story”.
The chapters around Sharpe's recovery are some of the best Cornwell has written in this series.
These chapters put more flesh into Sharpe's character, adding human qualities to a man whose action hero side often eclipses everything else.Sharpe's Sword starts off really, really slow and rough.
I had a really difficult time visualizing the initial action scenes and terrain of Salamanca.
Initially it was Conn Iggulden-esque where Sharpe views it from a distance but once he enters it, Cornwell goes into his usual close quarters gory style.
an Anglo-Portuguese army under the Duke of Wellington defeated Marshal Auguste Marmont's French forces among the hills around Arapiles, south of Salamanca, Spain on 22 July 1812 during the Peninsular War. AThe battle involved a succession of flanking manoeuvres in oblique order, initiated by the British heavy cavalry brigade and Pakenham's 3rd division, and continued by the cavalry and the 4th, 5th and 6th divisions.
These attacks resulted in a rout of the French left wing.
Both Marmont and his deputy commander, General Bonet, received shrapnel wounds in the first few minutes of firing.
The greatest threat to Wellington's Salamanca Campaign is not Napoleon's Army but France's deadliest assassin.
We learn that Sharpe is not invincible and sometimes his luck fails.
This book is a little different from many of the other Sharpe novels I have read.
Sharpe is more involved with single important figures than with common soldiers and much of the book is not set on the battlefield.
Sharpe has some introspective discussions with some of these figures.
Espionage plays a part.
There is a little bit of misdirection in the story.
Sharpe fails in his mission and suffers for it.
However, this being a Sharpe novel, he eventually has some success beyond what an average soldier might.
Once described as "romance novels for men," the Sharpe series follows a British Infantryman in the Napoleonic Wars.
Its protagonist is duly heroic, its love interests are predictably luscious, and its narratives of crucial battles in Wellington's campaigns are meticulously researched and rousingly told.This particular Sharpe novel ranks among the best of the series.
Its villains are villainous without being ridiculous, its heroes feel lived in, and its narrative comes across as a tightly plotted good time.
I blew through this one in a week, and I recommend it to the curious reader who'd like to find out if the Sharpe series is for him.
Sharpe gets involved in a vendetta, just about gets himself killed, and manages a miraculous (and somewhat unbelievable) recovery. Meanwhile Wellington battles around Salamanca and Sharpe gets involved in the nasty secret underbelly of the Napoleonic Wars. A whole lot going on here, and all of it makes for a great page-turner.
You get exactly what you expect with this book, more Richard Sharpe, the 007 of the Napoleonic age. The formula is sacrosanct. The characters haven't evolved much since they left India. For a long time in the series, these books have been less of a literary experience and more of an excuse to flip back and forth to Wikipedia to learn about this fascinating time in world history.
I have enjoyed all of the Sharpe series so far. I found this one to be even more compelling and enjoyable. The characters are well fleshed out and realistic. His adversaries, both open and hidden, are worthy. Sharpe's various internal struggles cause nearly as much anxiety to the reader as they must have to Sharpe himself. As I have since the first book, I am looking forward to the next.
Another good story about Sharpe and about a sword. Cornwell describes in great detail the horrible fate of soldiers wounded in battle at that time. The battle of Salamanca is fought between Wellington and Marmont.
One of the weaker Sharpe novels I've read. The escape of the French colonel at the beginning was a great action piece, but unfortunately, the book went downhill from there. Would have given it two stars if not for the fact that I like the characters.
This installment in the Sharpe series follows Wellington to his huge victory at Salamanca. Of course Sharpe is both heroic, facing a formidable fictional villain, and romantically involved again - but this book has some good twists on the usual plot that I enjoyed.
I very much like the Sharpe’s series mainly for the excellent character development that can be seen from book to book. In this one Sharpe is given another chance to look into himself, to fear his mortality and to win yet another battle.
Just stated reading Sharpe novels! Love them!Sharpe is the James Bond of his era! He always wins! He always gets the beautiful woman and foils the evil foe! You have to love Sharpe!
