https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148957.Red_Threads
Cramer is merely John Law. Stout saw no reason to work up another New York City Police Inspector when he’d created a perfectly servicable one for Nero Wolfe.Inspector Cramer is not an entirely unsympathetic character in the story.
To me, it was only a minor distraction because the character’s part is relatively minor.The final chapter is a bit silly and overdone, but overall the Jean Farris character carried the story through with a little help from Inspector Cramer making Red Threads an enjoyable 1930s mystery even without Nero Wolfe.
(She is in love with the son.)She herself, is not a suspect, but a victim of a strange attack to get at her clothes that contain a specific thread that she has woven into an outfit.
and well fabrics herself.)And Jean uses a method to draw out the murderer, who she believes with decent logic took her outfit with the thread.
In doing so she also exposes herself to danger, but luckily there are others who also realize it and help her.She ends up having to, in the same way that Nero Wolfe and Archie had to, wake up Cramer to the fact that he has the wrong person, and that if he really dug deeper than just what was placed before him...
3 1/2So, Inspector Cramer gets his own case.
We do see that he's quite good at police work--thorough about pursuing leads and a very good interviewer.
And those skills lead to him getting the proof he needs to close the case.
Along the way he chews and mangles many cigars.But the lead investigator here is not Cramer, but a young woman whose romantic interest is the main suspect.
She's the one who thinks outside the box and solves the case--she just can't prove it.For 1939, I suspect Stout's handling of Native Americans is pretty good, although the full-blooded Cherokee character speaks English in broken sentences.
I was eager to read this book by Rex Stout.
While it does not involve Stout's famous detective Nero Wolfe, it does include Inspector Cramer and all of the police, DA's and other official law enforcement officers of the Wolfe cannon.
While the book was sufficiently entertaining it was far below the standard I have come to expect from Stout.
But a reader who has never tried any Rex Stout, this is in no way a book to start with.
There are loads of far more interesting books out there.
Inspector Cramer's on book; Goodwin and Wolfe are not a part of the plot. We miss the familiar routine at the old brownstone and especially Archie's wit. If Archie and Wolfe stories remind me of a particularly effervescent soft drink, then this is soda that has gone flat. The plot is intricate, the suspects suitably recalcitrant, the women strong and stubborn--but it is almost too well-made. More like an etude than a concerto. This is the first time I have read it--and probably the last--while I have read all the Wolfe series multiple enjoyable times.
A non Nero Wolfe story with some of the flavor and a few characters from the Wolfe series. Nice mystery but hard to get into.
For the Nero Wolfe die-hard completist only.
Stout's later career as a champion of civil rights and his somewhat better portrayal of non-whites in his later books proves the bigotry charge is a little strong, although he certainly is open to a charge of not being able to grasp the harm is aping stereotypes for affect in his writing.The lack of a sane or reasonable plot, the unreasonable ploy used to expose the murderer, the weak chains of evidence and all of the other nonsense that we a happy to overlook in a Nero Wolfe novel because of the bouncy narrative joy of Archie's telling are all laid out for us here in limp prose; exposed and risible.
RED THREADS. (1939). Rex Stout. **. This is not a Nero Wolfe novel, but instead features Inspector Cramer, whom we have encountered in various Wolfe novels as his cigar-chewing antagonist. The plot and setting are close to being preposterous: a multi-millionaire who made his money on the indian reservations out West is found murdered – with an indian tomahawk – in the marble-constructed edifice he had built as his wife’s tomb after her death. The building was also a museum holding artifacts from
The woman, Jean Farris, is a principal in a company of the same name, that specializes in the production of one-of-a-kind fabrics used to create high-fashion designer clothes.
One of the fabrics in question contains segments of a red yarn that was first used in the manufacture of military clothes for invading Spaniards back in the early days of America’s founding.
It indicated that Stout left behind his family and his second wife, who was in the fabric creation business – much like some of the characters in this book.
Even though I knew there would be no Wolfe and, even sadder, no Archie, I at least believed this book would center around Inspector Cramer.Instead, Cramer was more or less a sideline character while the book focused on a woman who was in love with one of the suspects.
I could have put up with that, but she was kind of an idiot.You know how Archie says in every book, practically, how he'll be watching the suspects' faces but it's no good because you can't actually prove anything by people's expressions?
Let me say I am an unadulterated fan Nero Wolfe, until recently I this was the only Rex Stout I had read.
Not too long ago I read Bad for Business, a Tecumseh Fox novel and really enjoyed.
This book was advertised as an Inspector Cramer novel and that does it an injustice.
The erstwhile Cramer is really a minor character until the final chapters.
For Nero Fans District Attorney Skinner are here.
The real work is done by a misfit group of characters.


I have been putting off reading this for years because now that I have, there are no Rex Stouts left that I haven't. Yes, you miss Nero and Archie. God, yes. And his plotting is a little dull, despite inclusion of things like scalping and mysterious Indian princesses in glass-faced coffins. But what Red Threads mainly lacks is funny lines, of the sort that dot every other mystery Stout wrote.But it's Stout. Enjoy!
Not a bad little mystery. His heroine is an odd mix of clever and beyond stupid. The cover of my copy bills this as an Inspecter Cramer feature, but he plays a relatively small role compared to other detectives and police inspectors in most crime dramas. The people who eventually bring in the clues and unoffically solve the crime are simple witnesses and bystanders. This a unique twist in an otherwise fairly straightforward murder investigation.
my bucket list pretty much concists of books I want to read or reread, operas I want to see, movies I want to see, and friends I want to visit.This is on my rex stout bucket list and i'm glad to have read. No Archie as it's a non-nero wolfe, but i love the heroine and her best friend--and all the by the way info about native american textiles... the "red threads."
Well written like all Rex Stout's books but, as it's an Inspector Cramer mystery and does not feature either Nero Wolfe or Archie Goodwin... something just feels missing. Of course, nothing is. The mystery still holds your interest and I recommend it.
Rex Stout has spoiled me. I have read all the Nero Wolfe stories 3 times through. I love the way he writes. No fluff, no filler just beautifully drawn characters, wonderful dialogue and taut plotting. he's the best
It's not Nero Wolfe but just as good.
a weaver, recycled yarn, indians, decent plot not PC
Another good story from Rex Stout. This time Inspector Cramer gets to investigate without any help from Nero Wolfe.
Without the voice of Archie Goodwin Rex Stout sounds confused.
Rex Stout and Nero Wolf - it doesn't get any better!
Although this is billed as an Inspector Cramer mystery, the Inspector is not the star of the book. Still, it was an interesting read, although not of the caliber of the Nero Wolfe books.
Inspector Cramer (the inspector from other Nero Wolfe stories) on his own case. Lesser novel.
