https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24816.Homicidal_Psycho_Jungle_Cat
ricordo che alla fine degli anni ottanta, quando su linus vidi per la primissima volta una striscia di calvin & hobbes, non la trovai così geniale. nei decenni a seguire mi sono ciclicamente chiesta come sia stato possibile. stamattina, dopo aver rimesso sullo scaffale questo volume letto ormai enne volte, mi sono imbattuta in una foto di classe del 1987. santiddìo, portavo un taglio di capelli inguardabile. è evidente che deve esserci una correlazione tra le due incresciose circostanze.
Witty and intriguing as always as it is ... Here are some of my favorite ones:On Evolution:On Parenting:On Books:On Talking:Disclaimer: I don't claim any right to any of the above images. All belongs to Sir Bill Watterson.
Probably my favorite of the Calvin and Hobbes collections, with some of the most memorable stories.
May not be great literature, but Bill Watterson sees something which most of us don't. My life has been diminished by not having the joy of opening the daily paper to some new insight to ourselves through his eyes.
Best comic strip ever, period.
<3
I'm just now marking this as read, but with no read date, because I just realized that I own it, and the chances that I own a Calvin & Hobbes book that I have not read are incredibly small.
<3
I love Calvin and Hobbes...Watterson has a great sense of ironic humor. Calvin is the most contradicting 6-year-old that ever lived. On one hand he's this:or this:and then he's extremely intelligent on the other hand, and sometimes I don't even understand him.[image error]point taken???Calvin doesn't care much for interaction with other students at his school and instead conversates with his best friend, a stuffed tiger named Hobbes. Their always making smart remarks and doing creatively stupid things. The best part, though, is that they rarely take away the correct lesson when their schemes backfire. Calvin and Hobbes rock![image error]
The land is darkThe world in nightThere's a creatureIt starts a fight!Mercy, mercy! the victim criesGrowls and grunts are its repliesScrapes and scratches nearly bring the victim to his doomHis cries can't be heard all the way from his roomThe door opens and the commotion stopsThe victim gasps for breath and coughsHe wished that he had had a batTo fight to Homicidal Psycho Jungle Cat!
Yet another among the books published by Bill Watterson from the Calvin and Hobbes comic strip that I have enjoyed. My children have literally worn out these collections of C&H comics, and with good reason. C&H is a unique blend of homespun philosophy, side-splitting humor, and insight into the human (child and adult) condition. Watterson's insights into, and sly digs at, various social, familial, and other institutions of modern life are masterful.
Fall in love all over again ! :)
awesome as usual
Obozavam njihove Sneske Belice, tolko ideja prosto se odusevis.Plus dinosaurusi u avionima :)
Amazing flatout perfect
I love this comic strip. It's consistently entertaining. Calvin has to deal with coded letters, being good enough to get presents from Santa, new year's resolutions, tests in school, traffic safety posters, eating worms for money, tricking Susie with a coded message and other existential issues. It's nice that he has time to be academic about it.
Sometimes you need a little humor to deal with all of the absurdities in our world.
Words once again fail me here...
Are we even good enough to review a Calvn and Hobbes book?
Should mortals attempt to?
I am sure that if it comes down to a verbal duel, I would miserably fail against Calvin.
I would simply have to stand back and probably bow in respect to the kid's understanding of the world.
For those who have never read a Calvin and Hobbes book ever in their lives, my sympathies are with you!
For those who actually have, you know as well as I do, there is no point in reading a review.
Respect!!!
I ♥ Calvin & HobbesI fumetti di Calvin & Hobbes sono veramente mitici… hanno la capacità di farmi ridere per giorni, solo ripensando a qualche vignetta. La storia è quella di Calvin, bambino vivace, pieno di idee, entusiasmo, sarcasmo e fantasia. In perenne ricerca di un modo per non andare a scuola e convincere i suoi genitori a fargli fare quello che vuole. Hobbes è il suo tigrotto di peluche che, miracolosamente, quando non ci sono adulti nei paraggi, prende vita e diventa il suo inseparabile migliore amico. Consigliatissimo a grandi e piccini!
Like all of my other reviews of Bill Watterson's Calvin and Hobbes collections, his comics still hold up after twenty years. With more experiences, education, and general knowledge, the humor in these strips are even better.There are some comics that I instantly recognize from my childhood and still enjoy. Others almost seem new to me. I would have to say that my favorite comic from this entire book was Calvin's mother informing him that he could not build an "anatomically correct snowman" in response to seeing Susie's snow woman.
Wow. It's the two of them again. AWESOME. This paticular one was really cool. Especially the title. :]
AmazingI loved this book and I recommend it for any comic book fan or just anyone who likes comedy.I loved it and I think you'd like it too.
An excellent answer for if ever any one asks you 'what's wrong'?Yell, Homicidal Jungle Cat! And point wildly over your shoulder.
If I had to live on a desert island, and I could only take one book, and it could not be religious, then this is probably the book I would take.
This was one of my favorites, even though I didn't really read it thoroughly. Hobbes just loves to pounce on Calvin, especially after school.
A classic collection - Calvin & Hobbes is a timeless treat and this book is no exception.
I miss Calvin and Hobbes. One of the all time great comics!
8-millionth reread.
calvin and hobbes!!!!! AWESOME!
I loved Calvin and Hobbes when I was young. I think it might be even better in my 30s with three kids.
