https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44184.Monster
i have nothing really to say about this book, except that for a sixteen-year-old boy in jail, it might benefit him to adopt less girly handwriting.
and, really, less girly...i have just returned from my teen lit readers' advisory class and everyone just ooohed and ahhhed over this book and even though i read it last summer, the gushing reaction of everyone else made me drop a star from my previous rating.
and a close reading of this book reveals several inaccuracies that pretty much solidify the fact that despite the narrator's repeated claims that he is innocent, well, he's not.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/  “My job is to make sure the law works for you as well as against you, and to make you a human being in the eyes of the jury. Your job is to help me.” You may recall several months ago a horrific tragedy befell my family – I LOST MY KINDLE IN MY OWN HOUSE!!!! I did what any sane reader would do and immediately went into meltdown mode and demanded the okay to order a new one (which was promptly given to me because I = psychopath and ev
Months went by and then like magic my Kindle fell out from between the slats in the dining room chair where it had managed to wedge itself and remain incognito so long ago and I realized that if both Kindles were attached to my account I could force suggest a buddy read .
He still doesn’t loooooooove to read (and most assuredly stops when his 20 page requirement is over no matter how interesting he finds what’s going on), but he doesn’t moan and groan if presented contemporary realistic fiction.
Therefore, Monster reads like a screenplay and the reader discovers that .
Maybe it's the ease that the 5-0 make their case based on hearsay, without any kind of physical evidence that makes me feel a little too removed from the story, like this is something that wouldn't happen, but maybe that is just me having my only experiences with criminal trials come from TV Crime Procedurals.
Maybe it's the ease that everyone is rolling on everyone else, begging to rat out anyone that they can to get off on some crime that they committed that feels a little strange, like there would be no repercussions in this world for being an open snitch.
Monster is an interesting book in several ways.First, it is written in the format of a movie screenplay interjected with the main character's - a 16-year old African-American boy Steve Harmon's - diary-like entries.
And does it even matter if he is guilty or innocent if in the eyes of people around him he is a MONSTER regardless of the outcome of the trial?The ending of the book is vague, we all have to decide if Steven is a victim or a criminal.
This is my most recent reading of a book I've already taught two or three times in ninth grade English classes.
This is a great book for people who don't necessarily enjoy reading.
The movie script format means the action moves quickly and may make it more appealing to people who enjoy movies a lot.
Myers doesn't give too much away about the story either, which both builds suspense and leaves the reader with something to think about and to talk about.
The 16 year old protagonist who is on trial for allegedly participating in a robbery that ended in murder is realistic, sympathetic, and interesting.
the kids will all fixate on whether or not they think steve is guilty, which is sort of the crux of the action (he's on trial, suspected of being a "lookout" for a botcohed robbery of a convenience store where one man was murdered).
moral innocence (i'm thinking casey anthony would also work as a nice tie in here - can you be found not guilty but still be, in a sense, condemned for what you've done).
personally, i think steve is guilty.
if steve can't even take responsibility for his decisions in his screenplay, and then gets away with murder, well, what the hell sort of message is that?
3.5 stars I chose this book for my Children's Book Challenge- I have never heard of it before, but it has won several awards, including one of the Best Books of the Year in 1999 and was a NYTimes bestseller.
This is the story of Steve Harmon, a 16 year old black male who is on trial for a botched robbery/murder.
The flow of the novel was so different, bc Steve is telling the story himself as a movie, and it would appear the text is presented to the reader as a screenplay.
“They take away your shoelaces and your belt so you can’t kill yourself no matter how bad it is. I guess making you live is part of the punishment.” Monster is a few different things. Most noticeably, it's a page-turner written in the unique form of a movie script. But it also analyzes the main character and his choices of morality.Sixteen-year-old Steve Harmon was convicted of being an accomplice in a murder and robbery. Terrified he's going to end up in prison for life or get sentenced to dea
Terrified he's going to end up in prison for life or get sentenced to death row, Steve tries to distract himself by keeping track of the events in jail as the case plays out.This was a short, thought-provoking read.
When I first finished it, I too was frustrated with the ambiguous ending that left things a little too open.But the more I thought about it, the more I appreciated the ending.
In a way, the reader is supposed to give Steve the verdict: Guilty or not guilty?This was a look at a boy's character who may have got caught up in a terrible crime.
This book is AWESOME! I highly recommend this book to people who struggle getting through books. It is a quick read, but a necessary one!
Learned about it from this article about a book club for black boys.
But than I heard it was a realistic fiction book, which I tend to stay away from realistic book.
Because I just want to read about fiction worlds and step away from the real world issues in books from time too time.
Monster is actually the first realistic book that I have read, and it most definitely won't be my last I would love too read my books like Monster in the near future.
All and all I really liked and enjoyed Monster that I am going to try read more realistic books in the near future!
"Sometimes I feel like I have walked into the middle of a movie. Maybe I can make my own movie. The film will be the story of my life. No, not my life, but of this experience. I'll call it what the lady who is the prosecutor called me. MONSTER."  Actual rating 2.5Monster is a hard book to review. While reading it, I could definitely see the appeal and why so many people loved it as much as they did. It's well written, the format is fascinating, and the storyline is the opposite of dull. I can p
"Sometimes I feel like I have walked into the middle of a movie.
The film will be the story of my life.
No, not my life, but of this experience.
Actual rating 2.5Monster is a hard book to review.
How does a book with these qualities not receive a glowing review as radiant as it's abundance of stars?
But then I finished it and had a startling realization: I did not truly care for anyone in the book.
Did I feel horrible for Steve and hope that he didn't have to go to prison?
But I didn't care for Steve particularly.
I don't know what to believe about this story, I don't.
This book is told through diary entries and as a screenplay by the main character.
Yes, it is not the conventional way of doing things, but I thought it a beautiful way to tell the story, even though everything this man writes is gold.
I don't want to talk about the characters, that is a decision that every one must make individually, if you believe what is told, or if you make your own assumptions.
16-year old Steve Harmon is on trial as the lookout man in a Harlem convenience store robbery gone wrong, and the manager is killed with his own gun. The story is told in a unorthodox manner, switching between entries in Steve's diary and an imagined screenplay. Portrayed as a monster, the reader is left to determine his guilt or innocence as a number of troubled youth/criminals testify against Steve. His own worries and thoughts are intertwined as the court case comes to its conclusion.
However, Myers retains conflict necessary for building a compelling storyline by having Steve refuse to acknowledge his part in Mr. Nesbitt's death.
The result is that the reader wants to sympathize with the teen, but cannot help but wonder, if Steve truly does not understand why what he did was wrong, what is going to keep him from going astray in the future?
Overall, MONSTER sends an excellent message to young adults: You, and only you, are responsible for the choices you make, and the consequences for those choices may ultimately affect not only the rest of your life, but the lives of the people around you--and maybe those you do not even know.
All the interesting elements within the book are rehashed in the lawyer's closing statements.
This alone could have been a successful short story if Myers had published just that section of the book.
Have we learned anything from His wisdom?But of course, it wouldn't have been a YA novel to win awards and accolades.
AND THERE WOULDN'T HAVE BEEN THE (view spoiler)[happy cliche expected (hide spoiler)]ENDING.
It's important to have black representation in popular literature and YA especially, but to be honest, I don't think that Myers digs deep enough here.
I don't think this does quite enough justice to the experiences of blacks in America.
Monster HarperCollins Publishers, 2001, 281 pp., $8.99 Walter Dean Myers ISBN-13: 9780064407311 Did you ever wonder what happens after a person gets arrested? Well, I have always wondered what happen to the people that walk to a police precinct with handcuffs. What happen to the people that get sentenced to jail for life. Can a person come out and restore their lives again? How can people get back on their feet? Well, Steve Harmon did. Steve Harmon is a 16 year old African American boy, which is
Monster HarperCollins Publishers, 2001, 281 pp., $8.99 Walter Dean Myers ISBN-13: 9780064407311	Did you ever wonder what happens after a person gets arrested?
Well, I have always wondered what happen to the people that walk to a police precinct with handcuffs.
Once I started read this book, I wanted to read more to try to find out what happens next.
There seems to be a motivation in this book to make you keep on reading.
Mr. Myers has done an excellent job by getting into the mind set of an arrested man and writing this great book.
I didn't really enjoy it as much as I thought I would.
I just wanted more from the novel and I'm not sure if it was the authors intention to keep everything so vague, but I literally finished this book in one sitting and didn't understand why I started it to begin with.
I didn't really understand the whole premise of the case, it felt as though pieces were missing and it seemed as though everything was based on hearsay.
To be quite honest, I really didn't enjoy it.
If anyone has a better perspective of the novel please let me know.
Meh. This book was okay.The format was really weird and kind of hard to follow, but the story was okay.Would I have picked up this book without being forced to?
No. Was I forced to read this book by my English teacher?
Yes.If you like books about trials over a murder crime then you'll like this book.If you like books that have a weird format, you'll also like this book.
(Good luck trying to follow the story, though)If you like books that repeat the same thing over and over again until you basically know what's going to happen in the next scene, you're REALLY going to like this book.In other words, the book was meh.
Monster by Walter Dean Myers is a criminal book. I know many people have read this book. for those who haven't read it, it is about a young African American teenager who gets blamed for a crime. A lesson i learned from this book is "Never believe in anyone who seems to be loyal." this leeson means that in any case you really think a person is loyal and is a good friend to you, and who u trust, don't happen to have much trust in them because u know know what they're like until the end.read:2008
I was nervous for Steve during the whole book.Subjects, Themes, and Big Ideas: Figuring yourself out, peer pressure, raceCharacters: Steve Harmon, Kathy O’brien, Sandra Petrocelli, James King, Bobo Evans, Osvaldo Cruz, Lorelle Henry, Mr. and Mrs. Harmon, Jerry, Jose Delgado, George Nipping, Mr. NesbittPlot summary: A boy named Steve Harmon is on trial for murder.
The story is told from Steve’s point of view in the form of a play and journal entries that Steve wrote while he was in prison and going though trial.
Afterwards, the students could right a journal entry on the trial and how it made them feel.
I can see that this is a very well written book, and intellectually I know it’s an important topic and a powerful story.
I’m sure that’s a sign of excellent writing…I would not hesitate to recommend it to those looking for an intense book, but for me, I’d rather read something lighter.I think the intensity of the trial, the seriousness of the crime, and the desperation of the main character make me think this would be more suited to older readers, so I would recommend the 15-18-year-old crowd.
A younger reader might not be able to understand the long-term affects of the trial on Steve’s life either, and I feel that’s an important part of the story.
•Monster by Walter Dean Meyers •The main character Steve Harmon is a 16 year old black man who was arrested for being the lookout in a robbery that turned into a murder.
Sandra Petrocelli is the district attorney who is trying to prove both James King and Steve Harmon guilty.
•I liked the book Monster because it was interesting to see the life of a man who is on trial for murder and to see what it's like in the courtroom with all the different witnesses and the attorneys trying to prove people innocent and guilty.
But there is a twist to this story because Steve is making documentary about his like in jail, he puts a lot of stuff like trial,when he is sleeping and much much more Steve was changed 25 years to life for a crime he didn't commit!!
Furthermore Mr.King and Bobo were both put in jail because they committed the crime.
Bobo was put in for 25 years to life because he robbed cigarettes and King is in jail for 25 years for life for the murder of Mr.Nesbitt I recommend this book to all people because it's a good book just to read with your child I loved it and you guys will love it too i hope so!!
I loved this book, it was fast and easy to read.
I loved the way how the book was written which was like a movie script and a journal.
This was really interesting to me as this was the first book that I have ever read in this format.
As you can tell, I started this book on the bus, read 45 pages then continued when I got home.
In total this book took me about 3 hrs to finish.
Even though the book may appear long, the content isn't that difficult and you will rush through the first few pages really quickly.
I enjoyed the screenplay style of this book. It helped me visualize what was taking place in the courtroom. I also liked the overall plot and author's note at the start, but I wish the main character was further developed with some further insight to his intentions and decision making.
Definitely an interesting novel that garners discussion. I can't wait to discuss it at book club!
I love this book for so many reasons.
The main character, Steven, is clearly a smart, intelligible sixteen-year-old.
Yet--he is still a sixteen-year-old, searching for self identity and expression.
And while we are on the subject, the men introduced in the book, who are also on trial, are they monsters?
When reading this, consider the history of discrimination in our country, consider the frightening statistics that place an overwhelming majority of Black men in prison (there are more Black men in American prisons today than there were enslaved during the Civil War as per Michelle Alexander's "The New Jim Crow").
I absolutely loved this book.
The cover of the book had me liking it from the start.
Monster is written like a movie script.
this helps because it is less intimidating than most books that go in with more detail.
Monster by Walter Dean Myers is truly a Mystery type of book.
Steve Harmon is looking at Twenty-five years to life in Prison.
Steve doesn't know what to think anymore.
The book is perfect for all age groups.
If your looking with a novel that every single page is full of mystery until the end.
I would highly recommend this book to you.
My son liked this book, mostly because he liked reading it as movie script.
It is a visual story and works well in this format.
I liked it because it is a young readers' title with an unreliable narrator.
Still, the story seemed simplified, both to fit the movie script format and also possibly not to overwhelm the reader.
This would be a good title for a young reluctant urban reader.
There are some issues that could lead to some very good group discussion, mostly dealing with truth vs survival, and anticipating our narrator's future.
October 2015 second read
