https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/357486.Voices_from_Chernobyl
The city of Pripyat, which was home to the workers of the Chernobyl nuclear station, remains abandoned since that fateful April of 1986.
People were thrown into the areas where machines were unable to function due to radiation - while wearing little more than t-shirts and equipped with shovels.
People were dying from acute radiation sickness in the most horrifying ways imaginable.
Alexievich lets the eyewitness accounts speak for themselves, with very little editorial voice.
She does not preach or editorialize, and that makes the book more poignant.These are stories of people robbed of their present and future, of the disaster that is still claiming lives.
The Belarusian journalist Svetlana Alexievich spent three years interviewing people who had been involved in Chernobyl: villagers from the surrounding area, "liquidators" (members of the cleanup squad), widows and children, nuclear scientists, politicians, even people who, incredibly, had moved to Chernobyl after the accident.
An American robot is on the roof of the reactor for five minutes, then it breaks down.
If I'm a criminal, then why was I killing my own grandchild?" [Goes on for some time but it is impossible to understand what he is saying]From a teacher's account:Our family tried not to economize, we bought the most expensive salami, hoping it would be made of good meat.
Until now, and reading Alexievich's book, the only image that was strong in my mind is of the abandoned bumper cars from the visiting fair, rotting away in a mechanical graveyard.That's now all changed.Whatever her genre, Svetlana Alexievich is an original, a true voice, a voice that is hers and hers alone, but it's through the voice of others, the ones the rest of the world never got to here, opening up on their thoughts, living smack bang in the middle of the worse possible nightmare.
Horror en estado puro! Es impresionante... Estoy sin palabras. Mientras lees, hay relatos que... sobre todo el primero y el de la niña que no podía hacer pipi. Sencillamente de terror; de sufrimiento. Los otros relatos son para alucinar. Tanto que dejas de creer en el hombre.
I was about 5 when Chernobyl happened, and my family lived near the Baltic Sea, not that far from the explosion zone, relatively speaking.
This is what Alexievich writes about - you live through Chernobyl, and Chernobyl becomes a part of you in many ways.It took me 30 years to finally be ready to find out what really happened.
But, mainly, I think Alexievich is right to conclude that what is at fault in this tragedy is Russian mentality - a peculiar beast of heroism, fatalism, idealism, carelessness, lack of self-preservation and unexplained hope that whoever is in power will know best.
Bu insanların korkuları ve hayallerinin kayboluşunu mu; toprağın toprağa gömülmesini mi, yoksa doğanın bu süreçte nasıl hala çok güzel olup zehirli bir yaşam saçtığı mı?
Ne söyleyebilirim ki?!Çernobil Duası-Geleceğin Tarihi, bize Çernobil Sonrası yaşamı polifonik olarak canlı tanıklardan, bilimadamlarından, çocuklardan, siyasetcilerden oluşan korolarla birlikte birden fazla anlatıma maruz bırakıyor.
Evet bazen aynı şeyler çok fazla tekrarlanıyor, enerjiniz çekiliyor ama aynı zamanda nefes aldığınız anları, etrafınızda sevdiğiniz her şeyi kendiniz dahil şükran duymanızı sağlıyor.
Bir devrin kapanmasının canlı metaforu Çernofil Duası."Burada çok arkadaşım öldü...Yulya, Katya, Vadim.
Ama, birşeyler boğazımı sıkıyor.Çernobil Duası canlı bir dystopia örneği.
Buried them.These people don't exist any more, just the documents in our museum, with their names.When they all died, they refurbished the hospital.
They buried him barefoot.
My love.When reading or rereading this book, it's easy to treat it as a twisted prose poem or a myth.
Poisonous foods growing in the fields, animals abandoned and buried, skin turning grey and sloughing off.
And the book dips into that quality of some dark fable about human folly.
It was a disaster in the Soviet Union, and it is the result of Soviet institutions, and it affected the Soviet people, now Russians, Belorussians, Ukrainians.
Flotando esta reseña porque ayer se cumplieron 30 años de la tragedia de Chernóbil; y me gustaría hacer un sutil recordatorio de que si aún no has leído este libro, vale la pena hacerlo.  “Chernóbil para ellos no era una metáfora ni un símbolo, era su casa.”  Hagamos un experimento. Pregúntale a alguien, a cualquiera: ¿Cuál crees que es la peor tragedia que ha tenido que soportar la humanidad? Probablemente algunos mencionarán a Hitler, otros tal vez hablen de Hiroshima y Nagasaki, incluso algun
Flotando esta reseña porque ayer se cumplieron 30 años de la tragedia de Chernóbil; y me gustaría hacer un sutil recordatorio de que si aún no has leído este libro, vale la pena hacerlo.
Y, a pesar de saber todo eso, a pesar de haber visto terribles fotografías y documentales, si antes de leer este libro alguien me hubiese preguntado: “¿Cuál crees que es la peor tragedia que ha tenido que soportar la humanidad?”, Chernóbil ni siquiera hubiera pasado por mi mente.
Porque este es un libro capaz de cambiar el mundo.
Very touching voices, chronicling the Chernobyl experience and comparing life before and after the moment that changed everything.
Svetlana Alexievich captures the suffering of ordinary people of all walks of life, as well as that of professional staff sent to Chernobyl to deal with the crisis immediately after it happened.
While we were just kept away from certain foods, and weren't allowed to play in the sandbox or go on field trips, people in proximity to Chernobyl fought - often hopelessly - for their lives.I had to put down the book several times and take a break, as the stories are painful to read, particularly those which tell of ordinary issues and problems, and of ordinary people.
"We're from Chernobyl." "I'm a Chernobylite." As if this is a separate people.
تشرنوبل، الحرب النووية حيث الإنسان يقف عاجزًا، حيث الموت والألم، حيث اللامستقبل والحاضر البشعحين يقوم الإنسان بتشويه الطبيعة التي تقف هي صامتة، ترد باعتراضات ووسائل أخرى كثيرة في رسالة ضمنية منها "إذا تماديت سأحرمك من كل رفاهية حالية ومستقبلية تشوهنّي لأجلها، وستكون حينها معيشة الماضي الضئيلة حلم لا تطاله" لكن يستمر في التمادي ويستمر إلى الحد الذي يقلب الآية، ويقلب السحر على رأسه فتشوهه الطبيعة حينها!حين كنت اقرأ –فقط- وصف من عانوا من تشرنوبل، كيف تشوه أحبائهم أمامهم أشعر بالأشمئزاز، كيف من يرى ذلك بأم عينه؟ ليس في أي أحد بل فيمن يُحب؟ كيف يصبح هذا واقعهم؟حين قرأت أكثر من 400 صفحة من الألم، كنت أشعر بكثير من التكرار فلا شيء جديد ولا حدث مختلف يُضاف فكل هذا يمكن أن يُكتب في مائة صفحة ويصلنيّ بقوة.فهذه سافر زوجها لتشرنوبل، تشوه، مات أمامها.
I will never forget a documentary I saw about the nuclear disaster at the Chernobyl power plant in 1986.
This documentary, The Battle of Chernobyl, directed by Thomas Johnson, provides a very good understanding of what happened at the time of the accident and afterwards.
The prologue of the book is in fact the first interview, with the widow of a fireman who arrived at the plant a short time after the explosion.
The book also ends with another heartbreaking testimony, again from a widow.
In between these, there are interviews with all sorts of people affected by the Chernobyl disaster.
It was designed as a sort of breadcrumb trail for my teenaged son who didn’t need to read since he already knew everything.
I’m telling my English teacher that he needs to make everyone in the class read this book!”The Chernobyl nuclear disaster needs its Maus if only because so many young people in America have never even heard of it.
In another section a soldier describes killing the household pets left behind in villages that had been evacuated.
We’re dumping them from the dump truck into the hole, and this little black poodle is trying to climb back out.
صلاة تشرنوبل قبل أيام قليلة حلت الذكرى الثلاثين لكارثة تشرنوبل والتي وقعت في 26 إبريل 1986 م، حيث أد
É completamente inaceitável como isso foi explorado pelos dirigentes e como a negligência com que trataram o desastre condenou ao sofrimento e à morte milhares de seres humanos.Passaram-se trinta anos desde a explosão e, se hoje grande parte da Europa não faz parte da catástrofe, foi mérito desses homens fatalistas que deram as suas vidas em troca de uma medalha de mérito.
Ninguém sabe o que se passa com ele hoje.(…) O sarcófago é um defunto que respira.
“¿Hay algo más pavoroso que el hombre?” En mi comentario a  “El fin del Homo Sovieticus”  ya hablé suficientemente acerca de las muchas virtudes que adornan la prosa de Svetlana Aleksiévich y sobre las poderosas razones por las que todo el mundo debería leer el libro. Absolutamente todo lo dicho allí es trasladable a esta inteligente y estremecedora crónica de la catástrofe de Chernóbil, por lo que opto por no repetirme y, como la mejor forma de incentivar a su lectura, me limito a dejar hablar
Absolutamente todo lo dicho allí es trasladable a esta inteligente y estremecedora crónica de la catástrofe de Chernóbil, por lo que opto por no repetirme y, como la mejor forma de incentivar a su lectura, me limito a dejar hablar al propio libro: Un libro que es un emocionante homenaje a los que participaron en el desastre: “De modo que nos trajeron aquí.
Todo está listo para anotar los datos, para hacer experimentos.”“Llega el marido a casa del trabajo y se queja a su mujer: —Me han dicho que o mañana me voy a Chernóbil o entrego el carné del Partido.
الذي بيّن لي أكثر حجم هذه الكارثة والتي كما يطلق عليها منطقة منكوبة في برابيت منذ حدوث الإنفجار.تخبرنا الكاتبة (سفيتلانا أليكسفيتش) أن الحادثة لم تقف عند وفاة الـ(36) شخص أول الأمر بل تعدى ذلك لسنوات متلاحقة نتيجة ما هو أشد من الموت السريع وهو السرطان الذي ضرب بأطنابه في المدينة على مدى سنوات عديدة.
هنا تتجسد أصوات المتضررين من الحادثة مع أولئك الذين كانوا في المحطة ومع الكثير من الشخصيات التي تسلط الضوء عليهم وعلي حياتهم وتحولها بعد الفاجعةو ومدى الضرر العضوي والنفسي عليهمو وكيف كذب النظام السوفيتي على الشعب وأوهم بقوة نظامه وقدرته علي إحتواء مثل هذه المشاكل وماقام به من تضليل للشعب.
Rather than help focus on the shames of humanity as encapsulated in the disparate (and desperate) voices gathered in her books, her work would be seen as a fresh attempt to strengthen the anti-Russian sentiment by refreshing the world’s memory about the historical injustice and oppression of the Soviet Empire and its friends, thus vindicating one party and vilifying the other.I reiterate that this isn't a criticism of Alexievich's work, which might be great in terms of literary merit, humanistic values and social justice, but when there are other powerful states starting more wars and killing more people the world over, for her to acquiesce in using the Nobel springboard to join the chorus of voices directed against her imperium non grata is akin to doing her life's work a disfavour.Mum always says, There is no virtue in doing the right thing at the wrong time.(view spoiler)[Don't hate me!
De esos libros que te golpean, que lo terminas y dices wow, la suerte que tengo de poder vivir tan tranquilamente, de no conocer la pesadilla que atravesaron esas personas.Gran trabajo periodístico de la autora recopilando relatos durante 20 años, y se nota la calidad del ensayo presentado. Me gustó el libro pero es realmente deprimente así que hay que tomarse su tiempo para no desistir en el intento
Podés encontrar esta y otras reseñas en mi blog  «Voces de Chernóbil» era un libro que tenía pendiente desde hace mucho y que compré en cuanto me enteré de que su autora fue galardonada con el Premio Nobel de la literatura en el 2015. Se trata de una crónica que recoge los testimonios de diferentes personas afectadas por una de los mayores tragedias en la historia de la humanidad. Los diferentes capítulos son entrevistas (o monólogos, como los denomina la autora) que Alexiévich seleccionó entr
Con respecto a esto último, la entrevista que más me impresionó fue «Monólogo acerca del poder ilimitado de unos hombres sobre otros», en la cual un físico admite la forma en la que el gobierno de la URSS hizo todo lo posible por ocultar las consecuencias de la explosión del reactor.En estas páginas encontramos personas con diferentes ideologías y de todas las edades: esposas de liquidadores (es decir, aquellos que fueron enviados a evaluar los daños del reactor), ancianos habitantes de zonas rurales cercanas a Chernóbil, ex miembros del Partido Comunista, físicos, bomberos y niños que hasta el día de hoy padecen los efectos de la radiación.Además, la autora incluye a modo de prólogo una «entrevista consigo misma» en la cual expresa los motivos que la llevaron a elaborar esta crónica y también aporta su propia opinión y reflexiones después de realizar las entrevistas.
45 – 46)Prípiat - Ucrânia (30 de Setembro 2015) (Fotografia de Sean Gallup)Num dos relatos mais pungente e angustiante Liudmila Ignatenko, mulher do falecido bombeiro Vassili Ignatenko, que vivia em Prípiat, uma cidade a dois quilómetros da central Nuclear de Chernobyl, sintetiza contundentemente ”Vozes de Chernobyl”: ”Não sei do que hei de falar… Da morte ou do amor?
O que vimos… Ninguém quer ouvir falar da morte.
Origem do exemplar: Biblioteca. Língua da edição lida: Português. Tradução: Boa. Revisão: Razoável. Género: Não ficção, relato biográfico. Avaliação: Muito bom.(Obs: A meu ver, mais do que escritora, S. Alexievich é acima de tudo uma ótima editora e uma jornalista tenaz.)
The radiation can't be that bad if you can't see it.The fourth is with a father trying to explain how it feels to bury his daughter, dead from a disease that, officially, cannot exist.And so on and so on and so on.Voices From Chernobyl is one of the harshest reportage books I've read.
So the book consists of only that; interviews, with Aleksievich's own questions removed, leaving only a chorus of disembodied voices identified only by their first name and a title.
The Japanese robot lasted an hour before the radiation fried it.
It begins with the story of the young, pregnant wife of one of the first fire fighters, who responded to the fire at Reactor 4 of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and of his slow, untimely death.
The author allows the words of those who lived, and many who still live, in the affected areas to tell their own story.
Would you realise that, when you closed your front door, you would never return?Many of the locals affected by Chernobyl left their lives with no idea they would not go back.
Houses, villages, were left abandoned, or buried in the earth.
Some historical backgroundA lone human voiceThe author interviews herself on missing history and why Chernobyl calls our view of the world into question--Chernobyl Prayer: A Chronicle of the FutureA lone human voiceIn place of an epilogue
Με είχε φάει η περιέργεια να διαβάσω κάτι από τη γυναίκα που, με τη βράβευσή της με το Νόμπελ Λογοτεχνίας, έγινε αιτία αντιπαράθεσης ανάμεσα στους φίλους του βιβλίου, πυροδοτώντας μια συζήτηση για το πόσο μια συγγραφέας non-fiction βιβλίων είναι λογοτέχνης.
Φαίνεται πως ο Απρίλιος του 1986 μας φαινόταν πια τόσο μακριά, το Τσέρνομπιλ και ο τρόμος που μας προξένησε είχαν πια κοιμηθεί μέσα στη μνήμη μας.Αλλά ας θυμηθούμε λίγο τα γεγονότα: την 26η Απριλίου του 1986, µία σειρά εκρήξεων κατέστρεψε τον αντιδραστήρα του τέταρτου ενεργειακού μπλοκ στον πυρηνικό σταθμό του Τσέρνοµπιλ.
There's nowhere to hide. Not underground, not underwater, not in the air. I was born in the age of the known Chernobyl. Everyone found a justification for themselves, an explanation. I experimented on myself. And basically I found out that the frightening things in life happen quietly and naturally. Who are our fittest. In Afghanistan death was a normal thing. You could understand it there. Who are our heroes. I didn't know we weren't allowed to love here. Rabbits reabsorb their young when the
I was born in the age of the known Chernobyl.
In Afghanistan death was a normal thing.
I didn't know we weren't allowed to love here.
I've thought a few times that someday they're going to start hunting the scientists the way they used to hunt the doctors and drown them in the Middle Ages.
No mutations yet for surviving nuclear winter, but we evolved enough to conceptualize the end of the world a millennium or two ago.
But the era of physics ended at Chernobyl.
Humans are social creatures.
All the talk about how the land, the water, the air can kill them sounds like a fairy tale to them.
Μόλις 10 χρόνια μετά το καταστροφικό αυτό ατύχημα στο Τσέρνομπιλ η Αλεξίεβιτς αναλαμβάνει να δώσει την πλευρά των παθόντων στην δημοσιότητα μπαίνοντας στην απαγορευμένη ζώνη και δίνοντας μια γροθιά στο στομάχι όλων όσων διαβάζουν αυτό το βιβλίο. Βρήκα τον εαυτό μου να δυσκολεύεται να το διαβάσει, να θέλει να το παραμερίσει, να το αποφεύγει, όχι γιατί δεν ήταν άξιο διαβάσματος αλλά γιατί παραήταν αληθινό και ανατριχιαστικό.
سربازهایی که بدون هیچ گونه تجهیزاتی به نیروگاه هسته ای ارسال میشن تا باقی مونده های نیروگاه رو پاک سازی کنن و البته داوطلبانه یا به اجبار به آغوش مرگ میرن.
همه ی اینا فقط بخش خیلی خیلی کوچیکی از فاجعه ای هستش که رخ داده و البته دولت اون کشور بخاطر حفظ منافع خودش، مردم زیادی رو قربانی کرده و کمترین اگاهی ای در این مورد بهشون نداده.
کتاب شرح توصیفات مردمیه که هرکدوم به نحوی قربانی این حادثه و فاجعه بودن.به شدّت تکان دهنده.
godine, nakon čega je krenula rasprava o njenoj nacionalnoj pripadnosti, odnosno glavna tema je postalo pitanje čiji je ona pisac, s obzirom da je poreklom iz Belorusije, a piše na ruskom jeziku.Iskrena da budem, ne mogu da kažem da roman zaslužuje 5* sa koliko sam ga ocenila, ali imajući u vidu tematiku romana, nisam mogla da prenebregem činjenicu koliko je važno da ovo delo pronađe put do što većeg broja čitalaca, posebno onih koji o katastrofi u Černobilju znaju jako malo, ili gotovo ništa.
Na samom kraju romana, autorka navodi da, iako ljudi u predelima oko nuklearne elektrane još uvek ne mogu da žive, ukrajinska vlada je pre nekoliko godina, otvorila zabranjenu zonu za turiste.
başındaki ve sonundaki bölümlerde ağlamayan olur mu acaba, çok merak ediyorum.bu kitabı okuyup nükleer enerjiyi savunan olur mu, onu da çok merak ediyorum."bize bir şey olmaz." "hep dış mihrakların oyunu." "halkımız merak etmesin, her şey kontrol altında." "provokasyonlara gelmeyin." "her şey halkımızın iyiliği için."bu cümleler tanıdık geldi mi?daha neler neler...insanın aklı almıyor.bu sene yaptığım en iyi şeylerden biri, aleksiyeviç'leri okumaktı. çok yaşasın, çok yazsın.keşke bizi de yazacak biri olsa, onun gibi, onun tarzıyla... yaşananlar tarihe not düşülse.ağlaya ağlaya okuduğum kitabın ağlayarak yazdığım yazısı: http://tembelveyazar.blogspot.com.tr/...
