https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/857828.Mouse_Soup
It's a perfect book.The story I remember most vividly from being a little kid reading it was "Bees and the Mud." I remember my little brother and I giggling over it, particularly "We like your ears, we like your nose, we like your whiskers..." It's still funny, but I think it must have been funny then because of the way it was read on the record."Two Large Stones" is an amazingly philosophical story, the kind of story that Arnold Lobel tells all the time.
Clever Mouse! Clever stories. "Bees and Mud" is my favorite so far: A beehive lands on Mouse's head and he tells the Bees to fly away because he doesn't want a nest on his head. "Oh no!", they say. "We like your ears. We like your whiskers. We like your nose. This is a fine place for our nest!" Isn't that sweet? They want to stay because they like his ears. Mouse ears are the cutest!
This is a set of beginning reader stories by the same author of "Frog and Toad", one of the very few books to win BOTH the Caldecott and Newberry Awards. It is full high frequency sight words that help children become proficient readers. It’s a classical feeling read has a charming plot and moral. Also check out "Little Bear" by Else Minarik.- Alexis S.
It was fun reading an old childhood classic to my kids today. We love books and the experience of reading together.
I found a first edition of this at a thrift store a few weeks ago and picked it up because of how much I love Lobel's Frog and Toad series.
However, when I sat down to read this one, I realized that it--too--was familiar.
The tale of the two stones is one of the best (I can't help but wonder if it was an inspiration for a short, stop-motion animated film about two rocks on a hillside, watching the world go by.)It's a lovely book, and this was a wonderful find, one that I hope to read to my own little one--if and when they ever poke their head into the world.
Doesn't quite compare to the grandeur of Frog and Toad or the adorability of Owl at Home, but with stories like the Two Large Stones and The Crickets, it'll do. It's amazing how Lobel can craft perfect, real-life morals without ever slapping you in the face with them.
Geen kikker en pad, maar een mug die de veerboot over een regenplas beheert en het varkentje Valentijn die boos wegloopt als de boerin zijn zalig zachte modder wegsopt.
Zo is het verhaal van de hele grote muis en de hele kleine muis (het eerste verhaal in de bundel) oppervlakkig gezien een verhaal over groot en klein, maar op een dieper niveau gaat het over dat je de wereld altijd bekijkt vanuit je eigen standpunt - en die is niet altijd gelijk aan die van een ander.
Pas als je elkaar helpt (hele grote muis tilt hele kleine muis op), zie je hetzelfde.
Aside from the unfortunate title, this book is definitely a beautifully-illustrated classic with a lot of wit and imagination.
My five year old granddaughter loved this book! She then read it to me.
its so fun i love all the tales even though its not really a chapter book
The mouse told four different stories to the weasel.
The third story is called "The Crickets" and it is about a mouse who couldn't sleep because of the cricket's singing.
All of these stories distract the weasel from cooking the mouse.
When the weasel does this the mouse escapes to go home and finish reading his book.
I liked the ending because the mouse finishes reading his book the same time the reader finsigheds this one.
By breaking up the text with the illustrations, reading a longer book seems less intimidating.
The illustrations also make the book more entertaining and exciting to read.
This charming children’s story tells the tale of a mouse who was reading a book when he was caught by a weasel who threatens to make him into Mouse Soup.
Therefore, the Weasel sets out to collect a swarm of bees, two stones, crickets, and a thorn bush.
Meanwhile, the Mouse sneaks off back to his house to enjoy reading the book he was so rudely interrupted.I think this book is perfect for younger readers because it provides them which just the right amount of text.
In addition, the book provides illustrations on each page to help young readers make sense of the text.
Although this text villianizes a weasel, and teaches children that carnivorous animals are some how morally worse than herbivores, it still has a story that is challenging and complex. It teaches students a degree of reasoning and has a very good, motivated resolution. I recommend it, despite its flaws. It can be broken up in several parts, for readings over several evenings, too.
We love this book! Mouse is so clever, and his stories are hilarious.
Summary: A hungry weasel finds a mouse sitting under a tree, reading a book.
"Ah!," said the weasel, "I am going to make mouse soup." "Oh!," said the mouse.
"I am going to be mouse soup." But the clever mouse knows what to do.
These are the ingredients, the mouse explains finally, that the weasel must put in his soup.
But when the weasel comes home from collecting them, he finds that the main ingredient — the mouse — has gone home to finish reading his book.
This is a great book that has transitions and adds on to each chapter.
Mouse Soup is a funny and endearing story about a mouse who makes up stories in order to keep the weasel from eating him.
The mouse tells him that the soup will not taste very good unless the mouse is combines with stories.
The stories are set up like chapters which can allow students to feel as though they are reading chapter books even though the content of the stories is at the level of picture storybooks.
All of the text is written in a simplistic form that is easy for students to comprehend and will help boost confidence of struggling students.
Summary -- Mouse Soup is a story about a Mouse and a Weasel.
They are trying to make soup, but the Weasel doesn't have any stories to add to the soup.
The mouse shares 4 stories with the Weasel.
The Weasel is still confused about how to add the stories to the soup.
When the weasel returns the mouse has stolen his soup.
Evaluation -- I thought this story was a great book for transitional readers.
I also think you could introduce this as a problem and solution story.
You could explain how the mouse solved the problem at the end of each chapter.
The mouse claims that the soup will taste better if stories are included and proceeded to tell the weasel four stories to add to the soup and it ends up being a plot to escape.Evaluation:This is a fun read for transitional readers.
The stories the mouse tells are engaging.
I would recommend this book.Teaching Point:I would use this book to have in my classroom for transitional students to read.
I would also use this book to teach problem-solving due to all the different conflicts in the stories.
Students would be able to think about what could be done and how it would turn out.
Mouse Soup is an easy to read children's book.
A mouse finds himself in a bad situation and talks his way out of it.
The illustrations on each page are small so it does not distract a young child, but they do a good job fitting in with the words.
Mouse Soup is made for kids first learning to read.
It would not be a good read aloud.
The words are kept simple and very easy to read.
It is a cute story to help a young reader get comfortable and used to reading words put together.
Mouse Soup is an easy reader animal fantasy. Mouse is caught by a Weasel who wants to make Mouse Soup. But Mouse is smart and tricks the Weasel by telling him four stories that will supposedly make the soup taste great. After telling the stories, the Weasel has to go out and find elements from the stories to add to his Mouse soup. While out, the Mouse escapes and goes home to finish his book. This is a fun and inventive story which will hook kids in and want them to read more about the adventures of Mouse.
I considered myself a really fan of Arnold Lobel from now. I liked the approach of the story and its characters. The edition is also gorgeous.I recommend it to children and English students like me. _____________________Me declaro fan de Arnold Lobel apartir de ahora. Me ha gustado mucho el planteamiento de la historia y sus personajes. Además, la edición es muy bonita y manejable.Lo recomiendo tanto a niños como a estudiantes de inglés como yo. 😉
Simple text with wide spacing and colour pictures. A mouse gets captured by a weasel and tricks him in such a way that he is able to escape. This fable type premise is the bookend; within, the mouse tells several stories that will later form the basis for the 'soup'. A nice read that is easily accessible.
Funny, odd and very accesible to new readers. A reluctant 1st grade level reader finished it in one sitting, and then announced “I will read this one next” (pointing to Mouse Tales - advertised on the back). Level I/J
64 page book with 5 stories.Mouse tricks weasel telling him that the "Mouse Soup" will only be good if stories are added to it.Mouse shares 4 stories within the larger story - each of which has a mini-lesson to be learned if the reader thinks about it.
the kids were not into this when i bought it a couple of years ago. but lately both the 3 year old and the 6 year old love it. they can't stop quoting from it and they love the sequence at the end when the weasel is collecting the stories for the soup.
This is an adorable children’s book about a very clever little mouse. My grandchildren loved this book!
Eldest read this as part of the AO curriculum - excellent recommendation - she laughed and enjoyed it. This has helped in her feeling successful in her reading ability.
A group of my students read this today. They really enjoyed it! Lots of lessons in character traits, morals, etc.
Great illustrations and has that classic Lobel feel to it. The stories weren’t the best but the heart put into this one shines through.
A very cute story that was recommended to me by a kindergartner. It tells the story of a mouse who used his storytelling skills to get out of being the main course for a weasel.
