https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/191241.Beneath_the_Underdog
Mr. Mingus sure passes on some effective bedroom wisdom in this book .
Mingus played the double bass with considerable energy, passion approaching ferocity, and since the double bass is more human than any instrument out there, you can trust the dude.
As for the book, I read it in en route to Austin in early 1995 after a little Xmas vacation home to NJ -- really all I remember is the aforementioned technique.
A book of earnest erotica posing as a jazz memoir, Beneath the Underdog chronicles Mingus' childhood and early career as a lover and a pimp with nary of a mention of the music into which he poured his more worthwhile thoughts.
Yet the strangest and most disappointing part of Beneath the Underdog is its refusal to discuss Mingus' music.
In the absence of a real discussion of what made Mingus special, Beneath the Underdog is nothing more than a mediocre memoir about a fairly anonymous, sexually hungry man growing up in Watts in the 1930s and finally finding Kerouac's "IT" in an insane asylum in New York.
Intensely philosophical, the role of jazz in Mingus' life (or at least the parts of it he put in this book) seems to be so all-encompassing that its incidental; like why is a dude gonna waste time talking about air in his autobiography?
Starts with memories of his childhood in Watts, precedes through his psychically destructive relationships with two women (they were a threesome), his attempts to reconcile innate idealism with learned misanthropy.
Shares fond memories and interesting anecdotes about his fellow musicians, heaps scorn on his detractors, and presents us with a world so particular and individualistic, it's almost cosmologically Mingusian.
This is one of the greatest works of autobiographical fiction I will ever read. Mingus' verbal play is Joycean, his humor Rabelaisian. He is unflinchingly brave when writing about childhood, race, class, sex, creativity, and madness. He is filthily obscene and tenderly naive. This is the kind of candor, self-exhibition and self-delusion that only the most truthful autobiographical fiction achieves.
This book starts out extremely well.
It’s an original work of literature, narrated by a part of Mingus (don't ask) in the third person, playing with tense, including snappy, unrealistic dialogue, etc.
But around halfway the sexual excess becomes tiresome, and as Mingus becomes an adult this reader’s desire for something about music was fed only by occasional, abstruse passages.
What made one of the great composers and band leaders (not to mention bass players) of the 20th century?
I didn’t expect a direct answer, but at least something that continued the creativity promised by the book’s beginnings.
I made it over halfway.
You never forget for a second who is driving this crazy umbrella; and this book paints a more human, real, and nuanced image of the man in a way that no meticulously researched, cited and cross-referenced academic biography ever could.Mingus's younger years in particular read like A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, but set in Watts.
Everyone I've lent this book to has commented, even years later, about how memorable it was.For jazz fans, Mingus' descriptions of the conversations between the instruments of well known musicians during jams is hilarious and just plain awesome.
In Beneath the Underdog you get pure Mingus in all his lovable, maniacal glory.
I enjoy a good fictionalized autobiography as much as the next guy, and I think it is entirely appropriate for someone to embellish here and there to get a good story.
it's all sort of painful to read, since you are embarrassed for a grown man who thinks that this will glorify his life.
You do learn a lot about Mingus from this, but nothing you would want to know.Skip it, and read "The Charles Mingus CAT-alog For Toilet Training Your Cat" instead.
At least you will come away knowing how to toilet train a cat.
This is a fierce, bragging, smart, autobiography that's full of tall tales and simple truths. Written in a very straightforward language that's full of colloquialisms slang and street smarts. It reminded me of the anger evident in the Miles Davis biography, but it's more matter of fact about it. I recently read this for the second time and it was just as good as i remember it.
Not what I was expecting, which is OK (it's his autobiography, after all), but waaaaay too little about music--and what's there is pretty surface level--and way too much about his romantic/sexual life.
White people don't have a right to play it, it's colored folk music." I understand the viewpoint (more recently, Wynton Marsalis has certainly shared his view on what is and isn't jazz), but something about the idea that you're morally only allowed to play the music that is in the tradition of your race/nationality/tribe/insert-things-you-have-no-control-over-here seems questionable.
Η μαύρη μουσική και τα κέρδη που αποφέρει στην λευκή Αμερικάνικη Μουσική Βιομηχανία, το περιθώριο και οι φυλετικές διακρίσεις, τα ναρκωτικά, η παραβατικότητα ως μόνη διέξοδος επιβίωσης, μικρές και μεγάλες προσδοκίες, όνειρα, εφιάλτες, και παραισθήσεις.Αυτό το βιβλίο έχει τα πάντα.
Αν και ομολογουμένως όχι και τόσο καλογραμμένο - δηλαδή με το στυλιζαρισμένο ύφος της καλής (δηλαδή εμπορικής) λογοτεχνίας, ούτε με περγαμηνές και προοπτικές υψηλού λογοτεχνικού πονήματος - αυτή είναι η ιστορία ενός εκπληκτικού μαύρου καλλιτέχνη και μουσικού στη λευκή αμερική, για την οποία το σημαντικό δεν είναι ούτε το ταλέντο σου, ούτε οι ικανότητες σου, μα ούτε καν οι προθέσεις σου.
Το χρώμα του δέρματος είναι αυτό που θα καθορίσει τις "ίσες" ευκαιρίες και την απόσταση που πρέπει να διανύσεις για να φτάσεις στην κορυφή.
Ο φανατικός ακροατής που αναζητά πληροφορίες για τη μουσική (διαμόρφωση/εξέλιξη/επιτυχία) του Τσαρλς Μίνγκους θα απογοητευτεί, καθώς ο γίγαντας της τζαζ έχει εστιάσει στις ατελείωτες σεξουαλικές και ερωτικές περιπέτειες και τις μεταφυσικές αναζητήσεις του!
Αυτό ίσως οφείλεται στο ότι το «Χειρότερα κι από σκυλιά» (κακή απόδοση του “Beneath The Underdog”) στην πρώτη μορφή του είχε έκταση 1500 σελίδων(!), ενώ όταν, τελικά, εκδόθηκε το 1971 (αφού απασχόλησε τον Μίνγκους για δύο δεκαετίες) «μαζεύτηκε» σε 340 σελίδες (στην ελληνική μετάφραση).Αφού λοιπόν αυτή δεν είναι μια τυπική αυτοβιογραφία διάσημου μουσικού, τι είναι; Είναι η παραληρηματική/μυθιστορηματική προσπάθεια καταγραφής της ενηλικίωσης και του πρώτου τμήματος της μουσικής πορείας του Μίνγκους.
I would give it two and a half stars.The concept is great: a jazz autobiography that is written like jazz.
Forget about, "And then I played with Miles," and, "Bird was great because..." Forget about talk about the music.
Some people complain that this book doesn't talk about the music enough.
This book isn't about how Mingus lived through jazz history.
This book is about Mingus.
Who cares about how the music was played and who played it and why?
Because, sometimes the music just isn't that good.
The book was clearly written by a musician with a great sense of musicality.
i am still on the fence as to whether this text would have been better served in its current form or in the hulking 1000+ page manuscript initially prepared by mingus.
had we seen charles' grandiose vision unfurled, perhaps we'd have a clearer idea not only of how much of this was allegory and how much was fact, but a more complete picture of mingus the man and the musician.
this book is invaluable in terms of its contribution to the intellectual discourse surrounding jazz, and is an incredibly daring foree into literature from a musician, but it falls short as an autobiography, and ultimately, as a book about music.
You read it and you feel as if you understand Mingus more, and that you know nothing about him all at the same time.
You see it all through Mingus's zany vision, which is elucidating and baffling at the same time.
Maybe it's Schroedinger's Cat. It is fabulous and awful at the same time, but it's tough to figure out what state it's in at any given time.
Loved it, hated it, all at the same time.
Maybe I'm just too dumb and incredibly clever at the same time, and can't figure out what state I'm in at any given time.
A wild autobiography written in a stream of consciousness style, often narrated as a conversation between different aspects of his personality and as a conversation with his psychiatrist.
He writes of his struggle, growing up poor in Watts and trying to succeed as a musician in a racist society.
He was also one of the greatest musicians and composers in Jazz or any other genre.
It reminds me to some extent of Jack Kerouac, Miles Davis' Autobiography, Black Boy by Richard Wright and Pimp by Iceberg Slim, but it is a work of originality.
Charles Mingus is one of the great jazz legends I have ever heard. His music is experimental and groundbreaking, yet he was troubled and plagued by addictions and demons. This is his autobiography and it is not only as out there as his music, but also pretty great too.Told in the third person, Mingus talks to his therapist about his life up from his crazy family and upbringing in California to his meteoric rise in the jazz world. It's raw, its honest and it's weird. But the book works. A must-read for every jazz fan and Mingus fans alike.
strana autobiografia, in cui il confine tra quello che è vero e le esagerazioni credo sia sottilissimo. c'è la musica, ma meno di quanto mi aspettassi; ma c'è tantissimo sesso e, tantissima pazzia e tanta vita di strada (che immagino suonasse incredibile nello slang originale: ma anche così è un'ottima traduzione). esce fuori più l'uomo mingus del musicista mingus (non cita manco un titolo di un suo disco, per dire: solo alcune canzoni), e forse conoscere il primo aiuta capire meglio il secondo...
I am a fan of Mingus. I couldn't wait to get to the point where he talked about recording with Duke Ellington and Max Roach and it never happened. I would have been disappointed if this book was not so well-written and fascinating. I'll never listen to his music the same way again. Not for the faint of heart. A must read for any fan of his.
People have strong opinions about this book. I think it's a masterpiece. One of my favorite (exaggerated) autobiographies. Less music, more mental institutions and pimping. I love his music and his writing.
One of my favorite books to read. Mingus shares with us the wild ride (some true, some liberties taken) that was his life. He is one of the few artist that I relate to (as well as inspired by) in my journey so I find a sort of relief while reading this book.
It's nuts...mostly lies but an autobiograpy all the same. Mingus thought this stuff happened.
5% about music and 95% about the over exaggerated Mingus sex life!
Great Story! He tells it using third person, even though it's an autobiography, which is weird. It took me a little bit to figure it out.
Charles Mingus was possibly the best jazz composer ever, and one of the best Twentieth Century composers, period. This is his story, as told by the man himself, in manic, beat-style prose.
One of the great, weird, wild, probably largely made up but who cares, autobiographies of all time by one of the greatest musicians of all time.
I always thought it was titled "Mingus"; thought it was serious jazz writing, like the other classics from those days.
It sat.Not long ago I read Teachout's "Pops".
Wonderful story, Thought I 'd read another like it.
I took down "Mingus" the other day and started reading.
Mingus was trying to protect the guilty and preserve the image he projected.The story engages and brings in enough jazz figures to be interesting from a musical point of view, but it is not really that kind of book.
If you have a taste for hard, fast, clean writing and a view of a life most of us will never see, this book isRecommended.
The intro clearly says party of the story are fictionalized.
Similar the other reviewers be forewarned this is not a book about the music and all of the major players in the jazz scene at the time although there are references here and there.Overall it was ok, I didn't love it but didn't hate it I like his approach of attempting to take the reader into his 'subconscious' so to speak but parts of the book lost me.
If you're a fan of Mingus or are looking for a different approach in a jazz biography try this one out.
Interesting guy, not so interesting book. Seemed made up in places. People giving him these "this is how the world works" speeches that seem to mesh with how he all ready views the world, like he was just using Fats, or Billy Bones as an excuse. Too much weird mysticism. A few too many times he sent out his thoughts to people who then reported to hear them. Love the music, but would like to hear about him from someone less kooky.
Mingus should have stuck to his real talent: Music - instead of staining himself with this revolting mixture of obscenity and infantile romanticism. unbelievable as a biography and close to unreadable for style and general subject matter. the thing may qualify as a protocol of a mentally disordered person - but then again, better to have kept this between doctor and patient. as a book just plain bad.
Highly fantasised autobiography... written in a slightly affected beat/gonzo style full of individual impressionistic prose sketches only loosely joined by implication.Gripping until you realise that the balance of autobiography to fantasy is tipped wildly in favour of fantasy. As a biography it would be great, but as a novel awful. Which makes the effort of attempting to tease apart the truth from the wild, gratuitous exaggeration ultimately dismal and disappointing.
