https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140096.The_Julius_House
Heck, I love the entire series.
Roe is one of my favorite sleuths out there.
In this one, Roe is (sort of) trying to find out what happened to the Julius family who disappeared 6 years ago.
Unfortunately, nothing was unexpected in this one because I watched the Hallmark movie, but I did enjoy reading it because I like Roe so much.
The only shortcoming that I have (and I really hope it doesn't affect my enjoyment of the rest of the series) is that I don't really like Martin.
I hope it get's better.
Recommended series + read
Once there is a mystery she just can't help herself but to try and solve it.In this instalment, Aurora is drawn to "The Julius House" which is a local home for sale, but with a strange history as the Julius family who inhabited it years ago suddenly disappeared and have never been found.
She is also trying to solve the mystery around him while also adjusting to her new life as a married woman.Add in Charlaine Harris' talent for writing about small town America and you have yourself a very fun series.
The Julius House by Charlaine Harris is the 4th book in the Aurora Teagarden Mystery series. The Julius House is given to Aurora as a wedding present from her husband. Six years earlier, the Julius family had mysteriously vanished overnight from their house and despite extensive investigations no explanation had ever been found. A nice addition to the series. I liked the introduction of the two bodyguards and hope they continue in the series. An interesting mystery and quick read.
When I’m perhaps a bit cranky, I start questioning those plot choices and I don’t enjoy the story quite so much.This time out, I feel a bit cranky about things.
Although I thought that the reveal of what actually happened to the Julius family was very well done, I found the relationship developments between Roe and Martin to be questionable.
Who in their right mind goes into a marriage with unanswered questions of that magnitude?
I’ve lived in a small town and I don’t find it realistic.
The Julius House opens with big changes in Aurora's life.
Whatever Harris was trying to do, get us used to the changes or go in a different direction, the first portion of the book was incredibly dull to me.
I was even wondering if I wanted to continue reading the series, especially since I didn't much care for Aurora's 'attitude.' Once we got past the initial chapters, the action picked up and the last portion of the book was quite exciting.
A couple of new characters were introduced.
I really hope Angel sticks around.
She makes a great sidekick for Aurora.
In fact, the first 30 - 40 pages are simply about Aurora buying a wedding gift for Martin.
She buys his childhood farm under false pretenses and the only reason Martin apparently wanted the farm was to keep his step-dad from living there.
But the insipid Aurora "LOVES him" as she reminds us constantly in the first 30 pages.
After that, there is absolutely no reason to read the rest of the book.I was near page 200 before the ax-wielding maniac shows up.
I can't find the page number now, and don't really desire to search for it..but she describes a truck as lurid.
To describe this in one sentence, I would say: this does not get better in storytelling and plot line, but in some ways it does get better for Aurora.In this one, Aurora once again ‘accidentally on purpose’ solved some mysteries, made some list(s), well more like one to distract herself but it still counts, drank some coffee, read some books (crime novels of course) , oh also got married, moved in a new house, you know some regular day to day stuff.Yes, I’m being a bit sarcastic as per usual.
But at the same time I also liked that whole list making, book reading, and coffee drinking process.Also decaf?!?!
I was temping for a company that basically only needed someone to babysit the front desk. While sitting there I saw this book at the receptionist's desk. I like this book because it's a "pop-corn" (a quick read). I loved the writing and the quirky characters. The mystery wasn't really the main focus and normally I hate picking up a book in the middle of a series, but I found that it was enjoyable. It made me laugh and I think I'll pick up the other "Teagarden" novels to munch on for a short trip to the beach.
It is fortunate I didn’t quit this series after reading the first book. I am glad I carried on because they seem to get better. This chapter in the life of Aurora Teagarden is both fun and exciting. There is more action than I remember from past books. Some readers might be put off by the details given to how Roe dresses, but it adds to the charm for me. The audio is very good and I am enjoying that.
loved this novel a great read. love the main character really enjoyed it. once again my favourite author has another fab series.
This was a fun mystery and I can honestly say that the ending surprised me.Two new major characters are introduced in this book, Angela dn Shelby Youngblood, a young married couple who are old friends of Martin's.
The killer took me completely by surprise, and I found that I sat there gaping after I found out who it was.Another fast-paced book in a really enjoyable series, with some great characters, yet some annoying ones, too, a simply wonderful mystery The Julius House gets 4/5 stars!
This has been my favorite series from this author. I thank Sookie for getting me interested, but this series really had me hooked. I am sad there are no more, but I am also glad that Aurora did not take some of the same downward spirals that come from not really having anything else to write, but still writing. I would recommend this series, even if you don't like the others. This is a truly mystery series with no special abilities or vampires. Just real mystery and suspense.
I have been sucked into this series. It really is the audio version of mediocre ear candy. Half way through I say the current one will be the last I'll read and then, like now, I get to the end and click on the sample of next in the series and BAM! Hooked again. This one really has me wondering "who done it" more than the previous one.
Martin Bartel has proposed to Aurora and wants to buy her a house.
Aurora chooses the Julius House, which has a mystery in its history.
The Julius family: Mother, Father and daughter have just up and disappeared.
Aurora makes plans to fix the house according to her likes and dislikes and Martin gives her full reign for designing the interior.
Martin has been involved in something that could put Aurora's life in jeopardy.
There are murders to be solved and Aurora discovers what happened to the Julius family.
Of course she puts her own life at risk in solving the mysteries.
I have come to love Aurora Teagarden, but freely admit that part of what I love about her stories are how... safe they are. In this one, she not only marries, which spoils a little of the dating fun I have also come to love, but also discovers things about her husband that I do not want in Roe's life. How can her stories continue in the comfy, cozy vein I have come to love with this?I'm already starting the next one, so here's hoping.
A nice and quick read. ♡
I will say that I agree with Roe when she told the ex that whatever needed to be told needed to come from Martin himself.Even so, Martin seems unable to break the patterns of his past and things to come to a minor head after he installs Shelby and Angel Youngblood in the garage apartment at their home on the pretext that Shelby is an old Army buddy (true) and that they have fallen on hard times (partially true).
In fact, the Youngbloods are the best part of this story, especially the relationship that develops between Roe and Angel as Roe seeks to solve the mystery of what happened to the Julius family six years before.
She's helped solve several mysteries, inherited quite a lot of money from a friend, had several disastrous relationships that haven't lasted, and is slowly trying to find what she wants to dedicate her life to now that she no longer works at the library.
Martin obviously wanted Shelby and his wife Angel to rent the tiny apartment over the garage, but won't tell Roe why...Before long, Roe is once again deep in the middle of several mysteries that will more than likely solve the six-year question of what really happened to the Julius family?
The characterization of Aurora is uneven: she reacts strangely to other characters, she has bizarre thoughts which could use more explanation, she's still not very likable.
The first few chapters of the book don't even have anything to do with the mystery, and there are some strange things in the book, like one character claiming that Ohio is in a different timezone from Georgia.
I thought the timezone thing would turn out to be a fib on the part of a character, but it wasn't.
OK, a little more grousing about this series; near the beginning of the novel, the main character Roe says something like, "I wonder how the writer Robin is doing?
Last I heard, he'd moved to California..." o.0And then you find out that THREE YEARS have passed since the first novel in this series, Roe's little brother had moved across country, and there was a wedding planned!So things have heated up between Roe and Martin so much, the wedding was planned already.
The writer does have you guessing about it ALL over the neighborhood, all the while making Martin seem like a really "bad" guy...
This was a book I picked up at the airport for some light airplane reading.
Yes it was novel to read about a really rich woman in her 30s, who doesn't have to work for a living and is about to get married with all the trimmings.
Yes it was pleasant to accompany her while she picked out curtains, carpets, furniture and dresses.
And yes it was interesting to follow how she decided on a marriage present for her husband...
but seriously, for how long is that interesting?
So, what it boils down to was some light reading and a vague longing for new wooden floors.
I don't like the main character, Aurora.
Aurora was a librarian and then up and quits.
He is a mystery.
She doesn't know everything about him because he doesn't want her to.
In this book, she slowly gets some backbone and asks him the hard questions but by this time, I really don't care.
As usual, she gets involved in murder mysteries that have nothing to do with her.
Clearly she has too much time on her hands.
After reading this fourth installment of Aurora Teagarden, I am seriously wondering whether I want to continue reading the other ones.
The Aurora Teagarden Mysteries aren't nearly as detailed as Harris' Southern Vampire series, and sometimes that's a good thing, and sometimes that's a bad thing.
The plot surrounding the Julius House/Disappearance worked quite well, with just enough detail to make it interesting (and it even creeped me out a bit!) although I figured it our before Aurora did.
On the other hand, the plot line regarding Martin's background is far too sketchy to 1) be believable and 2) be enjoyable.
Same goes for the plot line regarding the Youngbloods.
It's just frustrating to see good plots squandered.
I continue reading candy! The writing is better for most of the book. There are some very good descriptions, some are quite good & funny. Again, the wrap up wasn't as good as it could have been. Bad guy caught, tells all. I also seriously contemplated pulling a star from the book because the base mystery was so flawed. Still, it's candy & suspending my sense of belief for one item, though major, didn't seem quite fair. It was fun read.
Almost nothing happens for the entire first half of the book, and then suddenly everything happens. I managed to figure out a theory that was close to what was going on early in the book, then figured it out completely before Roe did, which was surprising considering she had all the information she needed to come to the same conclusion...
Really enjoyed this fourth in the Aurora Teagarden series. Very quick and easy read.
I am just loving these books. The stories are more about every day life than a mystery and Charlaine Harris writes daily life so well. She nailed it best in these Aurora Teagarden books.
Aurora Teagarden, engaged to be married, has been given the Julius House by her fiance and is overseeing its repairs and maintenance with some help with friends of Martin in the weeks leading up to her wedding.
No ordinary house, the Julius family went mysteriously missing 6 years prior, and have never been found.
Aurora, naturally, takes to searching for clues and perhaps even bodies while Martin is busy travelling with work.
While the basics of the missing family and possible murders, etc, remains the same, this is still very different than the movie.
Wow, that was a fast read! I enjoyed this Aurora Teagarden installment the best of the ones I've read so far in this series. Her relationship with her new husband is mysterious for a while, but resolution seems to be on the way. I like that renovation of an old house (with a mystery of its own) plays out between the book's covers. I thought the surprises in the plot were pretty interesting. All in all, a nice summer read. I think I'll pick this series up again!
For most of the book I was expecting the obvious solution: (view spoiler)[the grandmother killed them all with the help of some unknown accomplice. (hide spoiler)] Boy, was I wrong. I didn't see the ending coming. Although I won't deny that it's been done before, it was done differently enough in this book for it to have stumped me. I enjoyed it and will definitely be listening to the next one. This series is definitely audio-book only; the narrator really makes it for me.
