https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84786.Void_Moon
Then Cassie suddenly finds herself in desperate need of big money fast and so, with no other option, she agrees to do a job that will earn her enough money to flee the country and build a new life.It means going back to Vegas and running some very high risks.
Cassie is a very appealing character, and Connelly obviously did a lot of careful research for the book.
The technical details, even though dated now, are especially intriguing, and after reading the book, I'm not going to feel safe in a hotel room again for a good long time.
A very good read.
Excellent read! slow at first but picked up eventually.. both compelling and intriguing and great detective storyline (paperback!)
As we all know by now, what happens in Vegas, stays in Vegas.Unless what happened is that you’re a professional thief and your lover/partner-in-crime gets caught trying rip to off a high roller in a hotel penthouse and ends up flying out the window, crashes through an atrium over the casino and lands on a craps table in front of you.
If that occurs, then everyone will know your business, you’ll be leaving Vegas quicker than Sheryl Crow, and your transportation will be a prison bus.Cassie Black and her lover Max made their living stealing from the rich in Sin City until Max’s luck ran out, and Cassie got sent to jail.
Realmente este escritor sabe cómo enganchar! Lo único que ese final...
This is not the best book by Michael Connelly but still a very good one.
I have a sweet spot for con artists of all sorts and I totally love heist stories.
I do really like Cassie, she is a complicated heroine.
It looks like she appears in some other book by Connelly, so maybe I will read it one day to meet Cassie again.The plot is really good.
However, I would like to spend more time with Cassie and less with Jack Spade.
The plot is full of action and twists and the whole idea is really good, again worth a movie script.
A great story with an unlikely hero.
This is a story of criminals moving in a the criminal life.
The best character to hang your allegiances with is your story's central character Cassie Black.
Cassie is an ex-con, ex-burglar who goes straight for a while and finds she just can't live that life.
You'll understand if you read the book.A lot of folks get caught in the ripple of her decision and many lives are lost or changed forever.
The last chapter or two are as moving as anything I've read Connelly write before.
My interview for the Vegas school district went like this: Do you want a teaching job?
She calmed down and then proceeded with the afore-mentioned 30-second interview.I don’t think she was that upset when I said “no” to the job.
I don’t know for sure, obviously, but--regardless if her story was true or not---I bet she used that opener for every interview, tears and all.
The score is always ridiculously huge, and the risks are always ridiculously high.And, of course, something ALWAYS goes wrong.Needless to say, I wasn’t that excited early on in “Void Moon” when it looked to me like a run-of-the-mill Vegas heist caper.
4  stars. The last two hours are edge of your seat. Great character development and outthinking each other. Excellent ending.STORY BRIEF:Cassie was in prison. She has been out on parole for 10 months. She works for a Porsche dealership selling cars. She is unsettled about something and wants to do another burglary job. She contacts her former buddy Leo who says he has a job needing someone like her - to steal money from a hotel room safe while the mark sleeps. The mark is a gambler in Las Vegas.
The hotel manager hires Jack (private investigator/hit man) to find the thief (Cassie) and get it back.REVIEWER’S OPINION:This is a great book for watching two very smart people outsmart each other.
Copyright 2002.THE FOUR SERIES (Bosch, McCaleb, McEvoy, and Haller):I recommend reading the Harry Bosch books in order, but it would be ok to try “The Last Coyote” or “Lost Light” first, just to see if you like the style.
See my review for The Fifth Witness for a list of all the books and my recommended reading order (for the four series).
A different MC for Connelly, Cassie Black is a thief, but still one of the good guys, at least comparatively. This was good, but really a 3.5 star read until the end which seemed as if it would be predictable. I'll simply say that bumped it to a 4 star read for me - power packed & excellent. Again he shows masterful foreshadowing & attention to detail. Again, I read this in published order, Callie Black #1, which I highly suggest. A Darkness More Than Night comes next. It is Harry Bosch #7 & Terry McCaleb #2.
There are no goodies here only baddies just some baddies are worse than others.I found the book a bit slow to get going but that didn't last long, by the end everything in my life was put on hold until I got to the explosive end.The main character, Cassie Black an ex convict and once burglar in Los Vegas but now a Porsche car salesperson in L.A. Seems to have turned her life around but for some unknown reason, which will unfold as you progress, decides she needs to do one last heist.
Well, Harry Bosch is admittedly a tough act to follow, but I think this book is just about as good.
It certainly has brought bad luck to Cassie Black, recently out on parole after serving five years of a sentence for an attempted burglary of a Las Vegas casino in which her partner/lover was killed.
Cassie goes back to her old associate, Leo, and asks to be included in a big job to get enough money to run away with the little girl.
All in all, I would have to say this really was as good as a Harry Bosch story after all!
I honestly had been looking for a book like this for the past year, so many thanks to Antonio for helping me finally find the story I was looking for.I have a soft spot in my heart for anti-heroes, those good guys who aren’t all that good but have the best intentions at heart.
Cassie Black was exactly this type of hero.
I also have a soft spot for “good” bad villains, and this story definitely had one.
Jack Karch was just as interesting and likeable as Cassie Black.
A good read. But I enjoyed the Harry Bosch, Michael Haller and the Poet books much more.
Written in 2000, it describes the efforts of a Las Vegas thief and parolee, Cassie Black, to raise enough money to kidnap her natural daughter and take off for Tahiti.It starts slow and then slows down.
I believe he hasn't written any more stories about Cassie Black and maybe it's just as well.The major villain, Jack Karch, is a real piece of sociopathic work and his boss Vincent Grimaldi is such a stereotype that it is difficult to find him interesting.
Usually, in Connelly's much celebrated Harry Bosch series, even the villains have some redeeming qualities but not in this story.
Out of all the Michael Connelly books I have read up to this point, this has been my least favorite so far.
I had a hard time getting in to it, but once I did it was a pretty fast read.
There really is no good guy/bad guy in this book.
When Jack Karsh enters the scene, the book gets a little graphic and a lot bloody.
I am all for mystery/good-guy/bad-guy plots.
If you are a Connelly fan, then you most likely will read this book; in my opinion I truly love his Harry Bosch and Mickey Haller series.
This is one of Michael Connolly's stand-alones and in my opinion one of his best books.
The female protagonist, Cassie Black, completely won me over, even though she's an ex-con and planning another casino heist in Las Vegas.
Connolly shows her preparations in great detail.
Wrong-O, Cassie.
Cassie hits the road to escape the psycho Vegas "fixer" sent after her by the mob.
Strangely, or perhaps craftily, Connolly imbues the fixer, Jack Karch, with tinges of humanity, not enough to make you root for him, but enough to make him a real and believable character.
Fiquei indecisa entre as 4 ou 5*...O livro é muito bom, prendeu-me da primeira até à ultima página. Recomendo ;)Michael Connelly é realmente um excelente escritor!
It's the “one last job” trope conveyed with an anxious vibe.The next chapter is set about seven years later in L.A. Cassie has an inexplicable interest in the owners of a modest house now up for sale.
Does the adrenaline rush she finally feels after making this decision sufficiently explain her motives?My interest in this thriller was captured by Connelly's skill in providing devious sociopathic villains and colorful secondary characters.
It is the brief interval when the moon is between astrological houses, he explains.
There was a void moon during the ill-fated Vegas job.
Quick easy read and mildly interesting but not up there with the Bosch books...
With Void Moon, I finally worked around to giving him a read.As I said, Michael Connelly has been sitting on my to-read list for quite some time.
I constantly tell myself I’m working through far too many as it is… yet I still find myself buying more books that are part of a series than I do standalone novels.
If Void Moon was any indication of what I can expect in his other work… well, I can imagine Michael Connelly will quickly be working his way up my list of most read authors.I’ll be honest and say I wasn’t pulled in from the very start.
This is not the first Michael Connelly book I have read/listened to and it won't be the last.
This story follows Cassie Black, a gifted thief who walked away from her criminal lifestyle, after the man she was closest to died during a job gone wrong.
When that secret is threatened, Cassie jumps back into her old life of robbing casinos and gamblers, to try and make things right once and for all.
Things, however, go terribly wrong and Cassie finds herself in a whole lot of trouble - more trouble than than she has ever faced in her life.
There's action, even within the technical aspects, it's nearly continual movements.
And yet this one also does as much for Las Vegas as it does for L.A. Their streets and locations alive throughout this novel.But to me, it doesn't carry the depth of personality which the Bosch novels continually seem to do and with some upping the ante with each.
I'm sure Connelly did the research, but some aspects didn't jive, IMHO.
I just like the Bosch much more.
Max, Cassie and group seem shallow in comparison.
In fact, not just shallow- they are ALL bad guys.
There is not a "good" guy in this book, just criminal to psychopath.
Michael Connelly is one of the best. This is a stand alone novel, it is not part of the Harry Bosch series. A great crime thriller, bad guys in Vegas and Los Angeles. Any books from this author are worth the ride.
4.5/5This stand alone Bosch Universe novel started out solid enough but quickly built up into something special.A nice change from Connelly's usual police perspective, Cassie Black is an paroled hot prowler about to embark on one last job to disappear on its payday.
The back stories unfold quite well and it's characters become full rather quickly.
I also enjoyed the mentionings and nods to Bosch characters from Vegas.
I enjoyed all of the characters in this story, and would love to see Connelly revisit Cassie Black.Connelly is not only the best crime fiction writer, he's one of the best living writers in my book.
The story turns into a different kind of procedural: a cat-and-mouse game ensues as the casino brings in one of the nastiest characters Connelly has yet devised, the crafty, vicious and unscrupulous Jack Karch, to track her down.I wasn't as enthralled with this one as I have sometimes been with Connelly's Harry Bosch books, but "Void Moon" has its own different kind of charms.
Cassie emerges as a resourceful and not entirely unsympathetic protagonist and it's conceivable Connelly had intentions of bringing her back again at some point--she even makes a cameo appearance in a later Harry Bosch book.Given its fast-paced rhythms and action quotient, I'm surprised this one hasn't yet been opted as a film.
She had a bad childhood in Las Vegas and ends up getting a job as a dealer.
Vegas is not as bad for people who live there as Connelly portrays it.
She is tired of that life and gets herself involved with a small time thief.
She is convicted of killing him since they were involved in a crime at the time of his death.
This book starts shortly after she is out of prison.Cassie isn't a particularly likable character and you don't root for her the way you do for most of Connelly's protagonists.
Connelly uses his regular crumbs from other books to tie them all in, but this one pretty much moves itself along.
I guess I prefer the white night narrator.Connelly kind of floats this book out there and leaves it to sail its own path.
Usually we get some strong tie ins with other novels, but it took me looking some things up on wikipedia to see some of the crumbs I talk about above.
I guess my reading series and not chronological order of things really is not the best way to do things with Mr. C.Good work Mr. Connelly.
One more book and I am completely caught up on the entire Connelly package.
Another good Connelly novel.
As I read, I felt as if I was uncovering the plot, peeking inside just as Michael Connelly intended.
After what was to be her final heist, she was sought by a psychotic killer, Jack Karch, working to retrieve the fortune Cassie had not expected to steal.
The final half of the book is a battle between Casey and Karch.
Connelly doesn't let the reader rest on their expectations, but rather continually introduces new elements of intrigue along the way.
The ending is one of the best action/adventure conclusions I've read.
This was a refreshingly different tale :) Gripped me hook line and sinker and had the very appropriate ending.
When the Moon is free from any major aspects when changing signs or houses then it is said to be in Void of Course.
Once the Moon has made its last major aspect before changing signs, the Void of Course phase of the Moon begins." Does that make sense to you?
She’s served time in prison and is now ten months into serving parole when she finds herself needing cash, so she takes on one last job, which takes her back to the casino where the job went wrong six years before.
