https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13835.In_the_Hand_of_the_Goddess
I thought that the ending of this book was supposed to be the ending of the final book in the quartet, so now I will be continuing on with the series going in totally blind!This was so enjoyable, I love these books so much.
The nostalgia is real!I do think that they could have been fleshed out a little bit though.
There is a bit of glossing over and jumping forward in time in big leaps, so things moved very fast in pace.
I wish I had the chance to slow down and savour it more.Other than that, loved the action, the characters, the world.
Like, in the last book there was no mention of it at all, and then suddenly in the first chapter of this book the goddess declared that George was in love with Alanna.
I mean, I hate reading about fighting/battles myself, but this is a book that's supposed to be all about it, right?Another gripe I have is that how Alanna seems to be a foolproof radar when it came to evil people.
I guess I really don't like it when evil people are so obviously portrayed to be evil from the start.
I just want to be a warrior maiden."HAHAHAH YEAH RIGHT,GREAT JOKE ALANNA Sooo...this book was basically like a sketch of Alanna's teenage years.
In on chapter she's 13,in the next one she's 15; in one chapter she's all like: "I am powerful woman ready to take my place in this world" and in the next one she's like: "omfg Jon,I know you're sleeping around and stuff but I want to be the one you sleep with too!!!".
Oh,please,spare me the pain.Book:Oh,yeah,let's add Alanna telling Jon that she loves him and her telling her friends,and she lied to them for years, that she's actually a girl.
Once again I will say I liked all the adventure and thrills these books have to offer as well as one of my favourite female characters in fantasy.
Even though I saw that coming it still was handled in a very good manner with me wondering what will become of her in the next book.So in all this was still a good addition to a well crafted series, I just wish the books could be longer so there would be more room for world and character development as those have a lot of potential here.
For spoiler purposes I won't say which boy ends up putting the moves on her while she's in the dress, but for a minute it's kind of icky, because he's like, "You're fighting what has to be" and "Surely you've realized all along this had to happen" and I was thinking oh god, Tamora, please don't let our protagonist's first time happen after some boy emotionally coerces her into sex, but Alanna sticks to her guns and walks away.
And greatest of all, the sex isn't some great turning point in the story - it's just another part of growing up for Alanna, and isn't made out to be any more important than anything else that happens in the book.
Im having a little hard time progressing with this book. In the first place, I chose this book because I was looking for a bad-ass female character and because of the good reviews. However, Im having troubles liking Alanna. And the story itself. Why? Because in one chapter she is 13-year-old, in the next one, 15-year-old and so on. She starts being Jonathans lover when Im still picturing her as a child, for Gods sake!Another thing why dont like her is because she keeps contradicting herself. Fir
I´m having a little hard time progressing with this book.
However, I´m having troubles liking Alanna.
She starts being Jonathan´s lover when I´m still picturing her as a child, for God´s sake!Another thing why don´t like her is because she keeps contradicting herself.
First, she says she never is going to love someone, bla, bla.
One of the things I don't understand is why everybody likes Alanna so much in the book?
The same with the rushness of the story, it happens all too fast.So, the first book was good and entertaining, the second...
I expected Alan to grow up and have to deal with identity issues, romantic issues and other problems that come with becoming a young adult.
(view spoiler)[While Alan does grow up and does have to deal with all the problems I had expected and while the book is not aimed at the 8-12 year-old set(though it's also not aimed at anyone over the age of 16), I felt the story to be tiresome and riddled with cliche.
I loved Alan's determination and need to prove herself in the first book, when she was just out of childhood and was developing emotionally and physically.
How do I love this book?
Let me count the ways.1) Alanna has sex and it's treated like, well, normal!
She's not slut-shamed!
She's just happy!
Dude!2) George is in love with Alanna and...
tells her, says he won't bring it up again, and goes right back to being her friend!
Because he loves her, and likes being around her, and wants to be around her and doesn't just value her as a romantic partner!
Dude!3) Roger's a nuanced and clever villain!
Dude!4) Alanna's interest in girly, pretty things in no way diminishes her badassitude!
Dude!5) BASICALLY I LOVE THIS BOOK FOREVER.
That being said, although the Immortals Quartet stands as my favourite Tortall series and I relate to Diane more overall...
I left this series as a feminist activist, thankful that Alanna was a character who presented both masculine and feminine qualities.
All that being said, it's still my favourite.The strong point of this novel is, in my opinion, Alanna's acceptance of her gender.
Alanna taught me how to accept both femininity and masculinity, and accept what they meant to me.
Alanna doesn't want love but because the author deemed it must happen, she's aged up 6 years in only a few chapters.
Jon the prince who's sleeping with several women at court and the King of Thieves, George.
"I was crazy to think-Johanathan, please!"So he stops and throws this line:"You're fighting what has to be, he said, "and you know it as well as I do."But because the author just wanted the romance to happen, Alanna gives in to his pestering and sleeps with him.
I admire what she wanted to write, but what this book became was not that.
I'm pretty sure "Tamora Pierce" is just the pen name of a precocious child, because this series reads like it was written by and for 12-year-old girls.
Things don't happen naturally, they just occur because the author wants them to.
All of a sudden men start falling in love with Alanna for no apparent reason.
Alanna will never get distracted by love, but then someone kisses her and she hops right into bed.
I started this series because I loved the premise, but I can't take any more.
Jonathan is super jealous and demanding and makes her do stuff she doesn't want to do.
Really enjoyed this one! Can't wait to pick up Book 3!
OMG YOU GUYS!!!!
I wished I liked this story arc more: what I wouldn't give for a heroine to have a romance that doesn't end in HEA but remains a healthy, loving relationship instead of a "learning opportunity" for her future hero (UGH).
It's extraordinarily shallow, and easy and instead of feeling like she's choosing to be with Jonathan in a romantic sense, it rather feels like he's available (connecting rooms!), he's down with it (he's flirting with all the ladies), and she's curious (although she tries very hard to stop that train of thought).
They are simple, easy things: if Alanna likes a person, they are good.
Gah, can people please hurry up and finish with the next two books and return them to the library so I don't have to wait? Pretty please?I think I loved this second book even more. This book really upped the ante on everything: magic, fighting, romance. Super fun, quick reads, but even so, they are just full of awesome. And Alanna is just such a gratifying character. So resistant to change and yet that's all she does.I don't want to switch gears and listen to something else, so someone better return their copy...FAST. :)
I remembered next to nothing about book 2, except Alanna getting a cat, starting to wear women's clothing sometimes, and (view spoiler)[sleeping with Jonathan (hide spoiler)].
(hide spoiler)]As for the Chamber of the Ordeal, I wish there'd been a way for Tamora Pierce to be vaguer on the details.
I feel like it's hard for a concrete reality to live up to that kind of fear.(view spoiler)[I also really wish Alanna had gotten to announce that she was a girl on her own terms (hide spoiler)]I'm also not super into how the relationship with Jonathan develops.
This was definitely more enjoyable for me than book 1! Still not quite 4 stars, but I have to round up because these really are fast, fun reads. Alanna is badass and I love her.
Her voice shook as she said, "He looked like some part of him died in there..."Then, later, when Jonathan and Gary are about to instruct Alanna in her Ordeal, they both mention barely surviving the Ordeal.
I keep thinking these descriptions don't quite match the Ordeals Alanna and Kel go through.
Jonathan taunting the knight with his squire, Alanna saying she didn't kill him because he was stupid, and "If I killed everyone who was stupid, I wouldn't have time to sleep." And then, of course, they go to war with Tusaine.
For example, only Alanna thinks of going to Stephan about the burr in Duke Gareth's saddle?
Even though I didn't exactly fall in love with the first novel of this series, I just couldn't help myself from wanting to find out what would happen with Alanna.
All in all, it just felt like there was a much greater, longer story to be told, but that it had been cut down to the bare minimum or had never been developed at all so as to be shorter in length.
I just would have liked to see more -- more romance, more explanation, more magic, more story development and detail in general.Although I'm glad to have continued this series in order to find out some of Alanna's fate, I'm not sure that I will be reading any further.
I've read more bad ones recently, and still like this one.Original ReviewSo, of course I've read this many times before and I was enjoying the book, but going a bit slowly and then I reached about the halfway point and read it straight though!
I think I always have a bit of a harder time with younger protagonists, so I like the books better when Alanna gets a little older.I really enjoyed Alanna's deepening relationships with both George and Jon. I've been complaining recently about love triangles in current popular YA and maybe the biggest reason I started this re-read is because I think it's done so well here.
While I know many of my older friends have loved this, I seem to have lost interest in the life and struggles of a mere fifteen-year-old girl, which says everything about me and nothing about the book itself.
I've only ever read The Immortals Series by Pierce when I was ten and I suspect I'd have loved this as much, if not more, if I were the same age.
As I grow I seem to prefer my protagonists to be older and can't seem to wait for Alanna to grow up.
My love for fantasy definitely came from this series.
This series set the ground work for my personality and Alanna is absolutely one of my favorite heroines ever.
I also find it interesting in this book how many similarities this world and the Nevernight world is.
I wonder if my love for Mia stems from Alanna.
I thought it was interesting how Pierce handled the romance in this book.
Jonathan is definitely showing signs of being controlling but Alanna does have strong feelings for him.
Alanna is the original cutie with a sword.
Chosen Ones, Mary Sues and magical pets? Count me in! I liked the narrative style better than the previous book. Simple, positive and entertaining.
Alanna is one busy girl!
If it's not dodging murder attempts, she's busy saving the princes' own life, exploring romance and trying to get ride of a traitor.
I loved this book and I continue to love this series!!
Alanna is just as defiant and hot tempered in this book as she was in the first.
Gets her into a few scrapes but damn does she remind me of myself.
I think Myles is my favorite secondary character, he's so wonderful and a kind person in general.
In this book we get the addition of Faithful the cat and omg I'm so in love with this furrball!!!
I'm not sure where to begin with this book.
Needlesstosay, Alanna is an excellent character.
I loved her in the first book and that didn't change throughout this one.
There is a lot of time jumping in this book, which ends with her turning 18, so there is a lot of development throughout.
I really enjoy her character and I think I might have even enjoyed the romance throughout this (something that I rarely enjoy for those curious).
This is an excellent series that I'm incredibly excited to continue.
I think I would have liked this a lot more if I'd read it when I was younger. But those editions were so disappointing looking. I thought this series was about something completely different.
Where do I start? These books came with such high reviews, and I was really excited to start reading it. But then I started reading it. First off, Alanna is a Mary Sue. Anything that happens ends perfectly, with no consequences to the characters. She's stereotypical and isn't consistent at all. (view spoiler)[ She says she doesn't want to fall in love, yet she's suddenly in Jonathan's bed and the author tells us she's his lover, with no build-up or introduction to that twist at all. (hide spoile
These books came with such high reviews, and I was really excited to start reading it.
But then I started reading it.
(view spoiler)[ She says she doesn't want to fall in love, yet she's suddenly in Jonathan's bed and the author tells us she's his lover, with no build-up or introduction to that twist at all.
Things that are supposedly major plot-points have no build-up and end within a few pages, with no reflection.I secretly believe that this book was written by a 12-year old girl as names like 'Moonlight', and 'Faithful' litter the pages.
I liked the romance in this book, though still felt one particular aspect of the relationships developed too quickly.
My main issue with this book was that it felt very choppy.My fave quotes from this book:"Alanna shook her head, smiling a little.
It didn't make sense - people are people, after all, she thought - but that was how things were."Alanna: "I just want to be a warrior maiden and go on adventures.
I don't want to fall in love, especially not with George or Jon. They'll ask me to give them parts of me.
In this book, Alanna faces down all of her greatest fears and finally reaches the age of her trial for knighthood.
All of the greatest children's and young adult books tend to transcend the recommended age and have some deeper meaning that can reach anyone.
I definitely felt that the first book, Alanna, achieved that.
However, because falling in love and romance are Alanna's greatest fears, and facing her fears was essentially the main plot point in this book, I felt that it deserved more attention.
I still feel that Alanna is a powerful role model for girls and I will definitely be buying this whole series for mine.
These books fill me with so much joy, I find something really nostalgic about them even though it's the first time I've read them.The biggest down side for me is that I ship s couple I know is doomed :(#24. A book with a map
