https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/167216.Amy_and_Isabelle
Si consuma il fatto, comincia l’estate, esplode ‘quel’ caldo che si rimangia ogni colore.Martin Donovan interpreta il prof di matematica.Quell’estate tutte le piante avevano un aspetto avvizzito e scolorito, come quello delle erbacce e dei fiori selvatici che crescono lungo le strade sterrate e vengono coperti da uno strato di polvere; anche se ora era il tempo a fare questo effetto, quel terribile caldo, e quell’umidità, quell’implacabile cielo bianco che si estendeva ovunque sopra le loro teste, e sembrava deciso, in qualche modo, a nascondere alla vista tutti i normali colori del mondo.Di questo romanzo Niccolò Ammaniti dice che esistono scrittori che raccontano storie comuni, all’apparenza banali, con una tale intensità da rendere i loro personaggi eroi e simboli del vivere quotidiano, e dopo aver sintetizzato la trama aggiunge: Poteva essere una melassa nauseante.
Loved.I'm already a huge Strout fan and I've been meaning to go back and read this, her first novel.
A sure sign of 5 stars for me is when I can hardly read fast enough to devour the writing/storytelling/characters while at the same time never wanting it to end.
That was me this morning.Strout fans will recognize the sense of longing and loneliness in her characters, themes she has continued to explore in her more recent works.
In fact, I think it is this depth and richness of storytelling that makes Strout such a dependable and fulfilling read for me.Obviously, she was a master novelist from the start.
Amy and her mother Isabelle are working together at the local Mill Factory, in New England, doing office work.
The mill ladies each have their concerns-stress-and secrets...and sorrows.
Amy becomes entangled in a sticky position with her substitute teacher ...one that will jeopardize a smooth free-flowing relationship with her mother.
Isabelle is single -and socially awkward, and sometimes downright embarrassing, whereas Amy is much more confident in who she is.
This novel gets inside women's heads...At its core it's a complex story about a mother and daughter...and how secrets are damaging.....but it's also about how women connect to other women.
***NO SPOILERS***A ruminative story about loneliness, missed opportunities, envy, yearning, and hope set against a small, sad town in New England, Amy and Isabelle focuses on the emotionally complex relationship between an unassuming mother and her reticent teenage daughter.
Isabelle and Amy are both multi-dimensional, with complicated feelings, mainly their vulnerabilities and respective disappointments, coloring everyday goings-on.
What doesn’t work so well is Isabelle’s story; it has less spark than Amy’s.
Strout did try to infuse drama into Isabelle’s work setting via a cast of co-workers who sit around and gossip, but the gossip is inane and the co-workers uninteresting.
In her debut novel Strout shows herself a master at building multi-layered characters, warts and all.
Amy is a shy, insecure and socially inept teen - the perfect target for a sexual predator.
There are lots of layers – Isabelle has a crush on her married boss, Amy on her teacher, looking for a father figure anyone?
(hide spoiler)]Add to this a host of fascinating minor characters each dealing with their own baggage; Dottie and Fat Bev are adorable.Absorbing, entertaining & believable, this came close to a 5 star rating for me.
Dropped a star for 2 reasons 1: the predictability of the ending 2: her decision not to introduce a single likeable / sympathetic male character.
Closely observed and nuanced. One of the best books about a mother daughter relationship I've read. Loneliness, isolation, and betrayal are the themes explored. I was often uncomfortable reading parts of this novel because the hunger of these characters to belong makes for heartbreaking moments. I worried for them and then hoped for them. Recommended.
Her trademark ability to document the trials and tribulations of ordinary people is in full flight here, marking her out as a singular talent, long before she went on to win a Pulitzer.This story focuses on Isabelle, a single mother in the small American town of Shirley Falls, and her sixteen-year-old daughter Amy. Isabelle is self-conscious and lonely, isolating herself from her co-workers at the drab office where she works.
The weeks that follow will change their lives forever.The thing I like most about Elizabeth Strout's writing is the way she examines the everyday obstacles that we all encounter.
Intorno alla storia di una madre (Isabelle) e una figlia adolescente (Amy) si muove un mondo di personaggi minori ma necessari, descritti con perizia sullo sfondo di una piccola città americana di provincia, un ambiente tratteggiato con pennellate sicure.
But a lot of its people live in secret turmoil.Isabelle has had a crush on her married boss for more than 10 years and she feels her life is being wasted away, and secretly, even without daring to articulate the thought, she blames Amy, her 15 years old daughter.
Two strangers, mother and daughter, living a lie together.When Isabelle discovers what is going on, her made up life crumbles down and she has to face reality, a deep shock but also an opportunity to see the world for what it really is, and finally, to give it a chance to open up and dare to trust again.Strout masters her storytelling, mixing some touches of humour with and oppressing sense that something terrible is about to happen.
Heartbreakingly real, beautifully written, the relationships in this book will stay with me.
This was an intense read and I am filled with both hope and despair for all of these women.
A delicate but steely line separates us from joy and can only occasionally be broken, but with a quick flip of the wrist that same line separates us from fear.
My favorite "aha" moment of the book--Isabelle decides to educate herself and starts reading Hamlet but breaks off at the point when he declares "Frailty, thy name is woman." How can he judge his mother for being scared to be a single parent?
Isabelle grapples with wanting to destroy her daughter, thus ending the possibilities of continually repeating the same pattern, and embracing the child she can still see in her daughter.Things that I expected to happen but didn't:Amy and her pregnant friend experimenting sexually.Mr. Robertson being the local killer.Amy and Paul driving off in search of Mr. Robertson.Mrs. Robertson murdered by Amy or Mr. Robertson.Isabelle to turn into Carrie's mom, or Sibyl's mom or Mommie Dearest.Amy to commit suicide, Stacy to then take Amy's place with Isabelle.As I read it, I tried to visualize the characters, cast the movie based-on-the-book, if you will.

4.5 stars. Another great read from this wonderful writer.
Il difficile rapporto tra una madre e una figlia incastonato nella vita di un piccolo paese del New England. Nonostante sia il primo romanzo scritto della Strout, la fattura è eccellente. In particolare, i primi due terzi del libro sono costruiti con vera maestria, un andare avanti e indietro nel tempo ben calibrato, in un’estate torrida e umida, che acuisce i contrasti, esaspera i sentimenti e sfianca le resistenze.Meno convincente la parte finale, ma comunque un gran bel leggere.
Il successo di una donna ha come condizione imprescindibile la presenza di un marito al fianco.Quello che mi ha colpito di più è l’isolamento in cui si può vivere per decine d’anni in una piccola comunità, mantenendo rapporti distaccati, cortesi e formali, senza verità, portando una maschera e come, miracolo, un evento esterno e una reazione spontanea possano infrangere il guscio di cemento, permettendo alla vita di scorrere, finalmente.
«Un altro splendido giorno è passato»In un'estate torrida e soffocante scorrono a Shirley Falls, imm
I think the reason this one missed the mark for me is that: 1) My expectations were really high, because of those two novels, above; 2) Looking at the book description, and knowing the talents of the author, she could have done so much more with this (and perhaps, were she writing it now, rather than it being her first, it would be a tremendous read); 3) We have, once again, the small New England town novel, but without the beauty and depth of the two novels above, and others of Strout's, etc.
I was wowed by Strout's writing in Olive Kitteridge, so decided to read other books she has written.
I was not disappointed with Amy and Isabelle, a novel about the strained relationship between Isabelle, a single mother, and her teen-aged daughter Amy. A/I is a coming of age story of young Amy--but also of her mother--as both slowly and painfully find their freedom, independence, and the confidence to move ahead.
The story is not merely a struggle between mother and daughter; it’s an intricate dance on both sides between yearnings, love ventured, lost opportunities, things said and unsaid.
Glorious writing, growth, and redemption in the end...beautiful.
This was an excellent and extremely thought-provoking book about the difficult topic of pedophilia, difficult here because the man's actions as well as Amy's (who is sixteen, a child in an adult's body and eager to break out of a stale and suffocating mother-daughter relationship) manage to cleverly blur the overall picture regarding what is right and wrong in their involvement with each other. I don't want to spoil the story by saying too much but I thought it was a powerful portrayal about why pedophile behaviour can so easily slip through society's safety nets.
Having put it down last evening, I can’t stop thinking about this book.
If I were to say that it is the story of Isabelle, a single mother, and her teenaged daughter, Amy, weathering a particularly difficult period in the daughter’s adolescence, I would hardly scratch the surface of this novel.
If I described it as a story of the deep well of shame, loneliness, insecurities and desires out of which each of us form our actions which unwittingly hurt and comfort ourselves and those around us, it would sound rather melodramatic.
So, I guess I simply must say that it is a terrific book.
Although set in small town America in around 1970, this is a story about emotional isolation and a mother and teenage daughter's troubled relationship, that could have easily taken place today.
This a fine example of character driven and superbly crafted realistic fiction, where even the secondary characters, the neighbours and friends in this small town, are multidimensional, authentic and well developed with their own stories and problems.
I really loved how, despite the focus of course being on the protagonists, little observations the author made about the other characters told so much about their lives, and Strout's writing is insightful and full of empathy.
Highly recommended for fans of realistic fiction.
One of the best books I've ever read--beautifully composed and executed.
My husband hesitated when I told him to read it.
"Are you sure this isn't a women's book?" he asked.
I assured him it wasn't, he did read it, and he saw what I meant.
Though nearly all the characters are women, and a mother-daughter relationship is at the heart of the novel, the book touches on the universal instead: the relationships between parents and children, the difficulties of communicating with those we love best.
Amy and Isabelle is a reminder that great novels don't need to be sweeping epics in far-away lands.
Not sure why I even picked this book up. Boring and predictable. The fact that it was made into an Oprah movie should have been the first clue...
But it's a page turner in that the characters are finely wrought (my favorite phrase), the descriptions are intoxicatingly detailed, the plot hums, and ultimately I just cared so much about what happened.It is a story about a mother and a daughter living in a small town in New England, and what happens one fateful spring/summer just before the daughter's 16th birthday.
Like Shriver's books and other authors I love, Strout writes about emotions and interactions with exquisite detail.
Her ear is also finely tuned to small-town relationships, and she skits gracefully between the dramas in many characters' lives, including minor ones.
“Le vite umane, delicate come stoffa, potevano essere tagliuzzate capricciosamente dalle lame di momenti casuali di egoismo”: ho scelto questa espressione, usata dalla scrittrice stessa, per parlare di questo romanzo, che narra in modo intenso e appassionante la vita e le esperienze non emozionanti né speciali di un microcosmo femminile.
Ecco la qualità particolare che ho apprezzato in questo romanzo: la capacità di narrare i piccoli moti quotidiani dell’anima, le attività e le esperienze della vita di ogni giorno con una intensità e immediatezza trascinanti.
Solo tirare avanti.
La gente tirava avanti; lo faceva da migliaia di anni”.
Bella lettura e bella rappresentazione del mondo femminile nelle sue 3 età , come in un quadro di Klimt.
E poi l'età matura della grassa Bev, ah che bella figura Bev, avercela un'amica come lei!
Partiamo da un rigido inverno e dopo aver attraversato una primavera esaltante e un'estate torrida e sfinente chiudiamo con un autunno dolce e pieno di promesse.
Il lettore gira l'ultima pagina con la sensazione che quel piccolo mondo prima dissonante stia per trovare un'armonia; lì, ma solo lì, dopo tutte quelle pagine di racconto di ampio respiro, si avverte un che di precipitoso .
Shirley Falls, un piccolo paesino del Maine. Un'estate di canicola. Una madre, una figlia e un'intera comunità vista attraverso il filtro delle donne che la animano. Quand'è che smettiamo di essere figli e diventiamo estranei, persone indipendenti, complete e separate? Conosciamo davvero intimamente le persone che ci hanno donato la vita e ci hanno cresciuto? E quanto veramente loro conoscono noi? Siamo inevitabilmente condannati ad essere degli alieni gli uni per gli altri, nonostante gli strenui tentativi di toccarci, incontrarci, conoscerci?
E' un inno, piuttosto: all'amore, alla comprensione, al non giudicare il prossimo solo dall'apparenza, alla semplicità, alla condivisione, alla libertà.Sarà, infatti, solo quando Isabelle si toglierà di dosso un fardello di apparenze, paure, impressioni sbagliate, che si sentirà davvero libera e inizierà a vivere davvero; e con lei inizierà a vivere davvero anche Amy, senza la paura di deludere o di andare contro i precetti della madre.La Strout pennella la storia senza troppe melensaggini, senza cadere in facili vittimismi o in una retorica di circostanza.Ogni parola è messa dove deve stare, chiara e semplice.
Just a dead brown snake of a thing lying flat through the center of town, dirty yellow foam collecting at its edge.”Isabelle is a fairly quiet single parent, working as a secretary in a factory in a relatively small town in New York.
Amy and Isabelle have a relatively quiet home life, although occasionally tense with unvoiced resentments.
Amy has one friend, Stacy, a girl who lives life more dangerously than Amy has ever dreamed of.
Amy only dreams about one guy, the new substitute teacher, who seems to see her as no one else does, makes her feel things no one else ever has.
Amy and Isabelle are a mother and teenaged daughter living in a small town in the early 60s.
Isabelle, the mother, is repressed, lonely and disappointed with how her life turned out.
Amy on the other hand, is young, beautiful, very sexual and incredibly innocent—the kind of girl that would make any parent worry.
The book covers one summer when a series of events changes their relationship forever.Amy and Isabelle does two things really well.
The other thing Strout pulls off brilliantly is the particular way that a teenaged girl hates her mother.
