https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/768884.The_Third_Eye
oh my goodness.
i can't believe this book is on good reads.
my brother and i read it when we were both a little too young and took every single word at face value.
weird, wild, magical and mystical adventures - astral projections, flying, third eyes, YES.
at the time we were totally sucked in and on board, ready to go on mystical journeys in tibet ourselves.
i'm afraid some of the luster might be gone with the cynicism that settles once one is no longer 12 years old (hence the cautionary 4 stars instead of 5), but nonetheless, can't WAIT to dust this little treasure off and re-read as a grown-up.
So, finally went to Mc Millian's Library and read the book.
(Loved it to Bits & was hooked by its charm of Astral Travelling.)Finally, Oneday I took the courage and mentioned it to my Dad, Who wasted no time in buying the complete collection.The writer claimed to be a reincarnation of a Tibetian lama, Lobsang Rampa.
I read all of my Dad's collection.Once you started reading it, you wouldn't want to leave it.
Lobsang Rampa was preordained to be a Tibetan priest, a sign from the stars that could not be ignored.
Opening: EARLY DAYS AT HOME: "OÉ.
What would your noble father say?" With this, Old Tzu gave the pony - and luckless rider - a hearty thwack across the hindquarters, and spat in the dust.Chakpori LamaseryFrom wiki: Lobsang Rampa is the pen name of an author who wrote books with paranormal and occult themes.
Supongo que nunca sabremos a ciencia cierta si el libro es enteramente real o no, por todas las investigaciones alrededor del autor y lo poco que conocemos de la cultura en Tíbet.
Pero al poner en duda su autenticidad me siento como el típico ciudadano occidental que tiene que ver que cada cosa sea comprobada científicamente para creerla, el típico occidental que es tan mencionado en el libro.
Sea mentira o sea real, este libro es una fuente de inspiración para generar más empatía con otras culturas y corrientes de pensamiento.
Don't judge a book by its cover!When I first saw this cover I thought - WEIRD! But after the first 2 chapters I was hooked. It is an amazing true story of a Tibetan Lama (monk). This books takes you to a world that is so foreign to our way of thinking. I highly recommend it!
The book was first published in 1956 and I remember it being a favourite during the 60s occultist wave.
It always carried a kind of question mark because of the accusations that it was a hoax, which the publishers discussed in their foreword at that time.
The writer was apparently an Englishman (Cyril Henry Hoskins) who had never been to Tibet and knew nothing about the place or its beliefs.
He claimed to have been 'taken over' mind and soul by the Tibetan Lama, Tuesday Lobsang Rampa, who was the real author.
Hoax or not, it is a marvellous book, and seems perfectly authentic to the untutored.
I loved this book more than I know. I read it and reread it at times when I'm feeling low or depressed. It's more or less a coming of age novel about a young boy of high class thrown out of his house by his stern father to become a monk. He is initiated into the higher order and taught the most secretive occult powers of tibet. I wish I could find the book right now. I don't think my review is any good. Read the book. There's a lot of spirituality and aura perception as well as astral traveling.
Trepanation (drilling into the skull) is real, as are a few of the other practices outlined by "T. Lobsang Rampa" (not his real name), but the vast majority of the work is fiction. Rampa was part of a publishing bandwagon that sought to capitalize on the growing interest in medition, buddhism, reincarnation, and the new age movement in general. For years, nobody knew this was a hoax - it's a fun read, but if you're looking for more accurate information about mediation, seek elsewhere.
Okay,....how to put it?Well, this writer is a fraud, he said that this book is his biography, in this book he said that he is a Tibetian monk, knew Dalai Lama very well, etc.....But actually he is not.....There have been an "international court" that state this man as a fraud.But still as a fictional.... this book is very good.Note: For his stroy i give him 5 star, but because of his lie i give him 3 star.-----Febry-----
Tuesday Lobsang Rampa elaborates upon his own life as a Lama, and reveals information about the human existence and powers which is both hard to accept and refute.
The purpose and manner of human life, through the author's perspective is hard to chew on yet has a quality of believability about itself.
The portions in the book which talk about the neglected and hence, forgotten powers of humans as universal beings, sadly leave a number of questions unanswered.
If you have ever found yourself lost under the burden of some of the biggest philosophical questions concerning life, this book will surely lend a valuable perspective.
I read this book as a teenager and i thought it was great. Only later did I learn that it's not written by a Tibetan monk but rather (if I remember correctly) and ex-plumber from the UK. Still, it's a pretty good read.
this is about the 4th or 5th time I've read this book. first got it from my brother about 40 years ago. if it's true, it's an incredible story... if fiction, even MORE so!
Tibet inançları doğrultusunda reenkarnasyon, üçüncü göz, duru görü gibi "doğaüstü" olarak adlandırdığımız birçok olguya referanslarda bulunan anlatı zaman zaman fantastikliğin sınırlarını zorluyor.
Kitap hakkında en ilginç nokta ise aslında yazarın hayatında hiç Tibet'e gitmemiş ve Sanskritçe bilmiyor olduğunun keşfedilmesi (Özel bir dedektif yazarın gerçek kimliğini tespit ediyor).
Peki o zaman batılı (İngiliz) bir adam, üstelik yazar olmayan bir adam, nasıl oluyor da Tibet, Himalayalar ve Budist inançları hakkında böyle bir kitap yazıyor?
Merak edenler bence önce kitabı okuyup sonra yazarın kitabı yazış sürecini araştırabilir.Sonuç olarak iki günde elimden bırakamadan bitirdiğim, çok keyifle okunan bir kitap.
This starts out with an odd introduction, the author Cyril Henry Hoskin states he is experiencing the memories and life of the reincarnate T.
Lobsang Rampa.
I found this a fun and amusing book of occult; I enjoyed the descriptions of childhood and life in Chakpori Lamasery in Tibet in the early 1900s.
I don't understand why anything about the yeti were included unless it's fodder for later books?Fun to read, but take all of it as fiction with a large gram (rather than a grain) of salt.
Keep in mind that the Dalai Lama found Lobsang Rampa's books fictitious, adding that they had created good publicity for Tibet.

Read this book a long time ago in 6th grade when my brother brought it from the Max Mueller Institute. Was extremely puzzled and captivated by the story.
Being seen as a child of extreme promise and even recognized as an incarnated master, Rampa (who refuses to use his monastic name, a highly unlikely move in any Buddhist context) contends that his training was one based on "Lamaist belief" and not "orthodox Buddhism." Interestingly enough, Blavatsky, too, used to claim access to the ancient wisdom of the  Book of Dzian  written in Senzar, a proto-Sanskrit language so secret that even some of the highest ranking Tibetan lamas were ignorant of it.
weird
Leído hace muchísimos años, me resultó muy atrapante y fue una ventana a otras espiritualidades, que en ese entonces, por ser adolescente, todavía desconocía.
This first book by Lobsang Rampa launched much interest in Western countries for all things Tibetan.
I have both a hardback and a paperback copy available for sale.Initiating the west into an awareness of Tibet while going through the story of his own initiation at the age of 7 years into life as a Tibetan monk, Lobsang Rampa presents a very compelling insight into a society already impacted by invasion by English and Russian interests.
The critics can say what they want, but this book is one that has been around since the 1950's, opened the Western world to the then-totally alien culture of Tibet, and opened my eyes to a beautiful peace-loving people that has stayed with me my entire life since reading this book.It is one of the most unique books I have ever read.
It is really a fascinating, unique book that will leave you feeling a lot like I imagine Dorothy of the Wizard of Oz would have felt, stepping out of her house into the mystical, magical land of Oz. The writing is captivating and well done, effectively drawing the reader into this dream-like world, after first reading about a humble Tibetan family in a very non-assuming life, until the Tibetan lamas (monks) show up at their door.
Muchas cosas de las que se dicen ya las conocía así que no contamos con ese factor sorpresa que muchas veces hace que te guste un libro un poquito más y por otro lado es un libro donde pasan “pocas cosas”.Mis gustos son más de acción lineal y que pasen cosas, venga y más cosas y este libro es de otro estilo.
Más reflexivo, se va por los cerros de úbeda, ahora te explica un apunte extenso sobre un tema que trataba de rasquis, y en si se puede resumir en dos frases el libro (en lo que a acción se refiere).Era una recomendación y con esto tacho dos badgets de un plumazo: recomendación y libro religioso de este año, y hasta te diría un tercero… creo que es el libro más antiguo que he leído nunca.
Selama beberapa lama melihatnya di rak perpustakaan, aku tidak tertarik untuk membacanya..
kupikir ini buku spiritual semacam karangan Anand Khrisna yang bagiku pribadi membosankan.
Setelah tidak menemukan buku yg kucari, aku mencoba membuka halaman buku ini.
Kehidupan penduduk di Tibet, dan suasana eksotis & mistis kehidupan para biksu di kuil terbangun lewat penuturan T.
dari kisah masa kecilnya saat dikirim ke biara sampai pertemuan dengan Hyeti, semuanya terangkai dengan bagus.
Lobsang Rampa, terutama soal kemampuan spiritualnya, buku ini bagus untuk dibaca, cukup informatif untuk mengenal kehidupan masyarakat Tibet.
sayang, kisah tentang Hyeti jadi batu sandungan untuk si pengarang..
Kalau benar, maka deskripsinya tentang Hyeti sangat minim dan terkesan kabur.
This book was a very intriguing read about Tibetan/ Lama culture.
About half way through I decided to a search on Lobsang and came across all the controversy and conspiracy theories.
Unfortunately this took away from the the rest of the book as I kept questioning whether things were real or not.
Suggestion : just read the book first then then read about the controversy.I came across this magazine article which tries to show both side of the story.http://www.nexusmagazine.com/index.ph...I am looking forward to reading Living with the Lama which a book from his cat!Also Twenty-Five Years with T.Lobsang Rampa from Rampa's wife looks interesting.
Saya adalah salah seorang pengagum Lobsang Rampa dan sudah baca semua karangan beliau. Memang banyak kontroversi mengenai Lobsang Rampa, dan umumnya yang punya konotasi negatif terhadap Lobsang Rampa cuma membaca satu atau dua judul saja dan juga tak punya latar belakang spiritual/metafisika yang memadai. Saya sendiri berupaya supaya konotasi negatif itu dapat terhapus dengan cara mencoba menterjemahkan karya-karya tersebut dalam bahasa Indonesia. Bisa dilihat di situs saya www.mataketiga.co.cc/Semua kritikan terhadap beliau sebenarnya dijawab dalam judul buku-buku beliau yang lain. Jadi untuk mendapatkan gambaran yang utuh dari kepribadian Lobsang Rampa harus membaca karya-karyanya yang lain juga.
Un libro extraño por los temas culturales y filosóficos que tiene la sociedad tibetana.
Sin embargo, saber el alcance que tiene el tercer ojo, la disciplina que se posee para despertarlo y entender un poco (quizás es lo más fascinante) los viajes astrales hacen que este libro abra la mente del que lo lee.La historia de un niño que está destinado al trato más fuerte por ser la reencarnación de un personaje importante en el Tibet.
Tuesday Lobsang Rampa, nos enseña su camino, sus pruebas y su visión de la nueva vida que eligió su reencarnación, superando las dificultades que se le presentaron hasta mostrar la gran capacidad como médico y vidente tibetano junta al Dalai lama y su maestro personal.
Un libro apasionante que lo transporta a uno a la vida de un monje en un lamasterio.
En este libro se sigue el trayecto de Lobsang desde su llegada como adicto a los siete años a Chakpori hasta que llega a ser abad antes de su partida de el Tíbet a China.
En este el aprende y habla sobre viajes astrales, sobre expediciones al norte del Tíbet, las cometas gigantes que logran elevar gente, la disciplina bajo la que viven los monjes, su formación en diferentes aptitudes.
A pesar de la posibilidad que la autoría de este libro no sea legitima esta obra no deja de ser un interesante libro sobre la vida en Oriente.
The very first of Lobsang Rampa I read from my dad's collection.
The writer claimed to be a reincarnation of a Tibetian lama, Lobsang Rampa.
The Third Eye introduced the strict discipline of the lama on his route to obtaining the ability to see with psychic power.
Story, said to be true , covers subjects such as the human aura, astral travel, meditation, control of the mind in overcoming pain, the Potala and what's underneath it, life in Tibet, search for reincarnated Lama when the chief died..........Once you started reading it, you wouldn't want to leave it.I finished off dad's collection in no time!
Perjalanan spiritual T. Lobsang Rampa mengajak saya melihat dunia menggunakan kacamata yang lebih jernih. Menurut kepercayaan yang ia anut, tidak ada sesuatu hal yang terjadi karena ketidaksengajaan. Semua berjalan berdasarkan sebuah alasan. Yang terpenting, kita belajar memahami setiap pelajaran yang diberikan kehidupan dan bukan mempertanyakannya. Dengan demikian, kita tak akan mengeluhkan hidup yang dijalani. Yeah, i learned from my own school of life!
Sebuah buku yang dengan jujur mengungkapkan perjalanan seorang anak menapaki garis hidupnya sebagai seorang rahib di sebuah biara di Tibet, sampai kemudian dia menjadi seorang Lama dan lalu takdir menuntunnya ke tanah-tanah asing jauh sekali di luar Tibet. Seluruh detil belokan perjalanan itu sebenarnya telah jauh-jauh hari diketahuinya, ketika usianya pas empat tahun, melalui ramalan.Pertama membaca buku ini tahun 2001-an, dan tetap masih segar sampai sekarang untuk dibaca-baca lagi.
