https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15450.Golem_in_the_Gears

I read the Xanth novels in college and I loved them, the puns and the humor was right up my ally. I cannot remember everyone on its on merit, but the series is funny and fast to read. I now need to get my kids started on this series. If you like fantasy and puns, you will love this group of books.
I remember I enjoyed this series a great deal when I was an early teen. I also remember that as the series went on it got darker, weirder and a little pervier.
The story felt a little short, but, over all a good book.
Grundy Golem is and will forever be one of my favorite characters in Mr. Anthony's Xanth series.
In the end, Grundy will face off against the Sea Hag in a battle of wits before of one of the most interesting of all Xanth's creatures - the source of the magic in Xanth himself - the Demon X(A/N)^th.Rapunzel has to be one of my favorite female characters in Xanth.
playful two faced nature that too many other females in Xanth seem to have.Do women in real life have that quality?
Grundy has been my favorite character since he was introduced into the series because he’s never been afraid to speak his mind. He doesn’t always do it in the best way and it gets him into trouble he could have avoided and there are times when he should keep quiet and doesn’t, but he’s not afraid of the consequences of speaking up. I like this book because his less likeable qualities are explained and make him more understandable and his experiences mellow him out without changing him completely.
This is another fun Xanth adventure. The misadventures of Grundy Golem, Snortimer the Monster Under the Bed and Rapunzel (who happens to be a pun-pal of young Ivy the Sorceress) is quite enjoyable. They face off against the Sea Hag a villain who never dies. The book is excellent in the manner of Xanth, filled with puns and monsters (some serve both roles). The only improvement is that it ended a bit abruptly. A bit more of a denouement would have helped. However, that didn't stop my enjoyment of the book.
A bit predictable
9 down, only 30 more to go...
Golem in the Gears is the first book I've read by popular fantasy author, Piers Anthony.
In a very brief plot summary, Golem in the Gears is about a golem (basically a puppet made into a pint-sized real boy) goes on a quest to locate and save a Princess's pet dragon, Stanley Steamer.
On his quest to save Stanley, the golem also rescues Rapunzel from the ivory tower where the Sea Hag is holding her captive.
As the golem and Rapunzel continue the quest, they simultaneously fall in love.
Stanley Steamer just seems like the perfect name for a dragon in a children's book!
It was nowhere near as good as the previous.The story follows a quest undertaken by Grundy the Golem, a one-foot-tall one-of-a-kind being who, based on the cover illustration by Darrell K.
It is almost as if he let this Mundane (lacking magic) mechanical device substitute for his imagination - or perhaps he had a deadline to complete the book and used most of his time and energy getting up to speed with the new technology and thus had less to devote to the story itself.
After reading Golem in the Gears, I no longer have interest in reading this series through to the end.
Fairly much a non-starter30 December 2011 It seems that Anthony just keeps on writing, and as he keeps on writing, people keep on buying his books, and because they keep on buying his books, he keeps on writing. Not that it is necessarily bad, though we must remember that these books are targeted at a younger audience (as I will explain shortly). Anyway, it suggests something similar to Stephen King. Okay, some of Stephen Kings books are actually really good, but it appears that he got to a poin
Look, writing books is cheap and inexpensive, but does require a lot of skill (or at least a lucky break), and I would hardly call it easy.
This is a concept in Xanth where when an adult is around children they cannot swear, mention the stalk, and protect them from disease.
However, I think the idea of the conspiracy is a little silly, particularly in a book targeted at the pre-teen market because by suggesting that adults are hiding something from children makes them even more curious to find out what it is they are hiding.
(Grundy meets Rapunzel, who conveniently can be any size she wants, and is happy to shrink for him.) It seemed odd to me also that Rapunzel had fast-growing hair that was supposed to be her magical talent, but she could also magically change her size--in Xanth people have one magical talent, and the flying centaurs all have the same single magical talent (they can make themselves lighter with a tap of their tail, so they can fly) but don't have extra ones generally.
He's an angry little sucker, pretty good at insulting people, but that's not his magical talent or anything.
Rapunzel seems to sort of have two magical talents, which I thought violated the "laws of physics" in Xanth; her obvious talent is that her hair is magically enhanced to grow fast.
(Awfully convenient if you're going to appear in a story as the love interest of a very tiny man.) Her ability to shift sizes is some inherent thing related to her ancestry, though; it's not supposed to be an actual magical talent.
Seems a lot more useful than having fast-growing hair, though.I thought Grundy was an okay character.
In essence, the Moster Under the Bed - whose name is Snortimer - is made up of five hairy arms with hands, connected at a central disc.
It is upon this disc that Grundy the Golem sits as he rides this special steed to the Ivory Tower to pursue his Quest.
Snortimer lives under a bed and must hide there during the day, for he is afraid of the light, and the Sun would turn him to dust.
This is his fate anyway, for he is born of dust and when the child whose bed he lives under stops believing in him, he returns to dust.
The series occupies a strange space between silly and weird.
Anthony has some odd opinions on themes, such as sex, racism, prejudice, growing up, and the use of magic in everyday life.
The writing vacillates between heavy-handed condescending to extended analysis of magic, science, and the application of the rules of Xanth.
Some love it, some hate it; I personally thought it was a strange read but harmless, although I doubt I'll read each book twice.
One thing about Anthony, he has a very complicated history and genealogy of Xanth and its characters and you have to appreciate how he always finds ways to connect them from book to book.
The story is focused on Grundy, the wise cracking, often insulting, and rarely at a loss for words golem who became real in an earlier book because he learned to care.
One day he finds Princess Ivy trying to teach her brother, Prince Dolph, to change into a bird to go look for the still lost Stanley Steamer.
Grundy saves that trouble by going out on an adventure to find the lost dragon.
The puns abound in the story, but they don't overpower the story line.This is one of the more fun books in the series, and the reader will enjoy reading this installment.
It also ranks just slightly above The Source of Magic making it the second worst of the early Xanth books.At some time in the past, one fan must have written to Piers and asked why, when all of the characters in his novels find true love and live happily ever after, did Grundy never find his soul mate.
At the end of the source of magic, he was rewarded for his efforts by being made into a real boy by the Demon Xanth.This book answers that question.The problem is, Grundy is the Scrappy Doo of the Xanth universe.
This was the very first Xanth novel I read.
I read it when I was in middle school and handed it to my older sister to read, we ened up sort of getting hooked into the series and looked for xanth novels in the library for years.
I never had the pleasure of reading the first few books of the series, but my sister tells me it explains about how much of the world of Xanth comes to be.
Fans of math and physics sort of sci-fi might really get into it.
I still like reading one once in a while.
This was my introduction to Piers Anthony ... and it was a good one.I loved the 'imaginitiveness' of it. There were plenty of things that made the story magical, approachable and entertaining. His stories are a more adult version of Enid Blyton's Far Away Tree ... and that can only be a good thing.The best part was my library had almost all of them, which made my nights quite long for the proceeding few months / years.For nostalgia's sake (and the fact I was a child when I read it), I can only give it full marks.
This story revolves around Grundy, a character from previous novels who has always had a helper role in the past. Now it's time for him to get his own book, as he goes off in search of Stanley the Gap Dragon, Ivy's lost pet. Along the way there is adventure and romance, as well as new and old characters.This isn't exactly one of my favorite novels of Xanth, but it is the lead up to quite a few books that are, so it's important. Five stars!
"You have to experience something fully, before you can leave it behind."Grundy isn't by favorite Xanth novel lead (though he ranks above Dor), but his loud-mouthed, adult humor is pretty funny.There's nothing that stood out as too extraordinary in this book for me. It's a typical Xanth novel: main character, sidekicks, adventure to solve a problem, resolution, happy ending, all interspersed with witty puns and borderline off-colored jokes. Basically: Xanth.
Two and a half stars. I picked this off the shelf because I'd just read another story about a Golem and had not read this book for 30 years (at least). It's cute. It has a lot of puns. I probably liked it better when I was much younger and reading it for the first time, but it still remains a fun, light read. I suspect some of Anthony's earlier books (which I still have)might have been more novel and would rate a full three stars.
I'd like to point out that Grundy came into commission when Bink was a newlywed of 25 or so, and Bink is now a grandfather. Though he acted grown, Dee could technically be considered the same age as Dor, Ivy's father and Ivy is ten, so Grundy is mid-thirties, minimum, if not a full 50. While Rapunzel is all of 20. The creepy old man gang scores again.
I enjoyed this book - a little romance is the usual in these books. My partner said I was crazy because I had to read the Lexicon of Xanth at the back. Having it there made me feel obligated to read it even though I knew all of the details already - omitting this would be my only suggestion to improve the book.
The Xanth books were a hoot the first time through (many years ago). I attempted to reread them again recently, but they don't work for me now. It's probably not a maturity thing, because I still think Gilligan is funny! Hmmm. If you haven't read them yet, go for it. If you've read them once, remember them fondly.
The problem started from the beginning. The plot was too weak, but this seems to happen in some of the Xanth novels.Grundy the Golem doesn't seem to get respect and to earn it he goes to search for the long lost dragon. But how bis that going to earn him respect when throughout his travels he really isn't to friendly with anyone and tends to insult many of his travelers. Bleh.
Once again I'm glad I got talked into reading Piers anthony. His characters are endearing. Even with all his faults I couldn't help rooting for Grundy.I assumed pretty early on that I knew where the book was going, but I enjoyed the ride getting there. I think that might be my favorite part of Piers Anthony's writing seeing what the problem is and watching how it unfolds.
SUMMARY:Grundy Golem got no respect. So, to prove himself, he volunteered for a quest to find the long-lost dragon, Stanley Steamer. On the way, he somehow manages to free a damsel in distress-- but not without incurring the wrath of the Sea Hag in the process. And when it comes to avenging herself on Grundy, the Sea Hag will never give up....From the Paperback edition.
This was the first Xanth novel I read, obviously out of order. It did hook me on the series. It was one of the earliest fantasy series I read and looking back not the greatest. But I enjoyed it at the time.
