https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24963.Greenwitch
A little empathy goes a long way!This middle volume of Cooper's wonderful series is the second and last to center on the Drew siblings, "the three from the track".
Odd kid, that Will.Cooper's focus on a Wild Green Magic that exists outside of the Light and the Dark was thoughtful and compelling.
Women are also centralized in a way that I don't recall seeing much of in the other books (besides the final moments of the last book): in the pagan ritual that creates the Greenwitch of course, but also in how Jane Drew proves herself to be the true hero of the story - simply by being her brave, kind self.
This book is not at all what I expected from the woman who wrote the end of Silver on the Tree, with the thing.
I have been surprised all along by how obvious and inevitable that end seems now, not just because I know what's coming, but also because these books have been arguing about it all along.
And then the Greenwitch, who is the wildest of magic, so wild that Merriman and Will are frightened of it and have to appease greater powers to even think of approaching it.
Greenwitch is the shortest book of the sequence, and yet that doesn’t mean that little happens.
It’s perhaps the most densely packed with symbolism and meaning and mythology that you just can’t get a handle on: the drowned man, the ship going inland, Roger Toms, the Wild Magic… This book, to me, emphasises the aspects of this sequence which are otherworldly and quite beyond the human characters, even while the humanity of those characters plays a huge part.
But she’s meeting a world which is wild and amoral and strange to her, with rules that make no sense to her.It’s also, once again, great on human interaction: the pettiness of Barney and Simon toward the intruder, Will, and Jane’s attempts to bridge the two worlds.
Re-read June 2013I'm noticing this time around how clever Cooper is to show these events through the Drews' eyes, rather than Will's.
Even the scene which concerns them directly--the scrying--is not narrated as it happens; we, like Barney and the others, must wait for Simon's story to find out what really happened in that caravan.
I can't speak to the Cornish accent, but he does differentiate well between Simon and Barney's voices, which is helpful.______________________________________Beautiful, haunting, and gloriously inventive.
Sure, there may not be as much action-adventure as the previous books--but ohmygollygracious, that scrying scene!
I needed a book to fill a hideous cover bingo square. This one fit the bill. Good book, ugly ass cover.
Parts of this book, especially the descriptions, are just glorious and perfect.
I think of it as the book that focuses more on Jane, too, which is always interesting as she's the only real key female character.
It also contains one of my favourite scenes/images from the sequence: Barney scrying.
There are some very interesting newer concepts introduced in this book.
There really isn't much action in this book and while I like it a lot, it feels somewhat lacking in climax.Reread in December 2009.
I wanted to know so much more about it -- who the drowned man was, what the ship was doing...
Haunting little book in the middle of Cooper's "The Dark is Rising" sequence. A young girl is swept up in ritual and myth as she watches Cornish village women construct and cast into the sea a "greenwitch"; a propitiatory straw and seashell sculpture. Very neo-pagan and steeped in British folkloric custom; I felt a strong desire to reread this after watching an episode of "Poldark" where the Cornishwomen are awaiting the annual running of the pilchard, but alas my copy has been lost to downsizing.
It occurred to me last night while reading that maybe Susan Cooper has come closer than Tolkien to a "mythology for England".
Her quests come organically out of the mythology she's using, and the places where she joins on her own are pretty seamless.(Tolkien has created a world of his own, I think, and people often put too much emphasis on the "mythology for England" stuff.
I just think the idea of a mythology for England is maybe actually achieved by Cooper.)Greenwitch also features one of the things I love most about this series -- the characters.

This character was good enough to shoulder the burden of sole protagonist during the previous book in the series, but here he fades into the background, because Cooper doesn’t give him that much to do.The Drews aren’t that much better off, mind you.
It’s a short book, so if Cooper had paced it more slowly and given the plot more bulk, I don’t think it would have suffered for length.Nothing about Greenwitch grabs me and makes me want to think about it in more depth or ruminate on the adventures these children have.
I found the connection between the Greenwitch, Jane and the women of Trewissick utterly fascinating and thought that it could lead to so much investigation around ancient rituals that may have lost or forgotten through time within one's own locality.
Without giving too much away, I also loved the interaction between both these characters and the Greenwitch as a character too - she was far more wild and ferocious, in some ways, than Herne in The Dark is Rising.
The chapters are relatively short and the switch between narrative perspectives alongside the handling of time are all very well done by Cooper, I thought.
"Power from the Greenwitch lost beneath the sea"...I stand by my opinion that this series has better writing than the Harry Potter series.
But the quality of writing is higher in the Dark is Rising series.
Will is summoned to the Cornwall area of England to meet some regular human kids, a family of 2 boys and a girl who have previously discovered the grail and protected the key to understanding the grail by throwing it in the sea.
This key was discovered by Greenwitch and she considered this her secret.
While not my favorite title of the series, it still is a lovely read.
And belatedly continuing my rereads of these books before the New Year...
Greenwitch is definitely not my favourite of the books, but I rank it a bit ahead of Over Sea, Under Stone, because it's just that little bit more mature, and some of the events are so mysterious that I can't help but be intrigued.
The haunting of Trewissick, everything to do with Tethys, the weirdness with the caravan...
And any reader of book 2 knows that Will is the youngest of the Old Ones, who last Christmas completed a quest to gain the six signs which will help the Light defeat the ancient enemy, the Dark.
Thirdly, part of the book switches to the supernatural adventures that Will and Merriman are experiencing.The Greenwitch of the title is an elemental being, part of the Wild Magic, which is apart from either Light or Dark, but which the Dark is seeking to subdue in this instance.
The shortest book on the series, it manages to pack in some excitement and a good story while being a quick read.
However, the “muggles” (to borrow from HARRY POTTER) resent Will’s bond with their Great Uncle Merry, not realizing that both are immortal “Old Ones.” By the end of the book, the Drews and Will achieve a tentative collaboration.GREENWICH begins with the theft of an ancient Arthurian grail.
The bond formed between the Green Witch and Jane is decisive to the victory of the Light at the end of the book.In GREENWITCH, Barney, the youngest, discovers that he has inherited his artist mother’s talent and passion for drawing.
GREENWICH is a far more satisfying book than OVER SEA, but inferior to THE DARK IS RISING, THE GREY KING, or SILVER ON THE TREE.
The second book in this series was all about the magic with little actual plot.
This book, the third in the series, combines the two, with magic AND a plot.
Not very riveting.(There is more action in this book than in TDIR, but even that was a letdown---the climactic "battle" was interesting but didn't seem to fit very well---like a lot of what happens in these books, showy but not very convincing.)Another of my problems is with capitalizing things to make them more significant---here we have the White Lady, Wild Magic, the Lady of the Sea, the Law, High Magic, and Cold Spells.
Like the others in the series, I've read this book many times before.
I've done some cursory research and I don't know if the making of the Greenwitch, as described in this novel, is entirely fictional or based on Cornish mythology.
The Drew children (Simon, Jane and Barney) are spending their spring break in Trewissick, Cornwall with their Great-Uncle Merry.
Although Simon, Jane and Barney don't know it, they are all working together to recover the lost grail and the secret held by the Greenwitch.
Greenwitch, the second (or third) book in this series, is a gem.
You get the distinct feeling that Merry and Will could have handled this one without them (convenient wish and that lil bit of scrying aside).I don't know.
This book is 99% what I don't like about Coopers writing.
He has become this all-knowing grown up after reading that book in DiR, and it's turned him into quite a dull unconflicted boy.
I think this Merlin-esque persona suits Merriman but Will just reads like he's 12 going on 80.
He's not really scared & he knows how to handle everything.The worst part is the basic story is less interesting now too.
This is the midpoint of the series and the shortest book.
My husband said this was the book he liked the least as a child, and I can see how it might be a bit "over the head" for some.
This is one of those books where, even as short as it is, it would have been nice to have a little character sheet with some background for the more mythical entities in this round.
Not my favorite of the series, but not a bad book by any means.
More aptly 3.5 stars. I liked Greenwitch much more upon rereading. When I first read this as a kid, it really scared me - something creepy about the building and drowning of the Greenwitch itself. (There's something about the brevity and simplicity and broad implications of these books that really lets a kid's imagination go wild and fill in the unspoken bits.) But now I like it more, and Jane's more active role.
At least it was shorter than the first two
"Greenwitch" is the middle book in the Dark Is Rising Sequence.
"Greenwitch" brings the two strands together.Simon, Jane, and Barney Drew are invited to Cornwall by their great-uncle Merriman.
Jane is invited to observe an annual ritual performed by the women of the village--the forming of the Greenwitch, a contraption of branches and leaves that is offered to the sea for good luck.
The children and Merriman are able to stop this with the reluctant help of the Greenwitch.The Dark Is Rising Sequence draws upon Arthurian legends of the Grail to retell the story for a modern-day audience.
In doing so, they uncover the FINAL FORM of the PROPHECY POEM.
I love the prophecy poem.
It gives me chills.I also SURE DO LOVE THAT OUTSIDER POV when the Drews meet Will.
We'll have to find some way to ditch him.Merriman: :)Will: :)Me: :)SURE DO LOVE THAT.
I also enjoy how Jane gets to be the hero of this one, since it seems like Jane usually gets a little bit shafted by the narrative.It is kind of uncomfortable how often people are erasing the poor Drews' memories, though.
If anyone erased my memory even once even for a very good reason, I would consider them dead to me.
Some genuinely creepy moments, and interestingly ambiguous set of relationships between the children from the previous two stories, Over Sea, Under Stone and The Dark is Rising. It is (perhaps) marred slightly by an ending that points to further into the sequence rather than reaching a resolution, but again Cooper manages landscape, family, folklore and danger and quite a difficult set of questions around how children identify whose side this adult or that might be on with her customary sureness.
Another great tale inspired by Arthur, the Grail, and Celtic lore. Although these books are written for children, there was something haunting, or maybe a better word is sublime, about this particular book. The Greenwitch isn't anything at all like the Wicked Witch of the West...she the power of nature incarnate in its awe and fury.
The more you read of it, the more you become engrossed in this series; the characters, the setting, and the storyline are all extremely well done. Excellent book. I loved the character of the Greenwitch as well.
The theft of the treasure found in an earlier book leads the children Simon, Jane and Barnaby back to Cornwall, along with their Uncle Merry and young Will. But the Greenwitch runs away with the plot, and I was glad to see Jane end up with a leading role because of her empathy.
Simultaneously chilling and lovely, a dreamy look at landscapes, histories, and the wild power of magic. In the latter, I particularly appreciated that the dualist tendencies of the first two books were further destabilized.
3.5 stars. Good story, though not quite as compelling as the previous book in the series. However, I did really like the author's introduction of something that didn't quite fit into the paradigm of the light vs. the dark -- a sort of wild, elemental force.
