https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/835437.High_Rising
I loved this cover.   Just charming. I didn't love much else about this book.I think I was expecting too much from this early work. Very few authors are immediately brilliant. But for me there were a lot of characters at the start, a lot of not much happening in the middle & a predictable ending that wrapped things up a bit too tidily. I don't think Alexander McCall Smith's introduction of my edition added much to my understanding. However, Wikipedia's biography of Mrs Thirkell is fascinatin
I loved this cover.
I didn't love much else about this book.I think I was expecting too much from this early work.
Her own life would have coloured some of her own views - for example that marriage isn't always necessary for a middle aged woman who can support herself.
I wasn't so fond of the digs at Jews (view spoiler)[ how seriously did Thirkell mean these?
The secondary male lead is Jewish & other than the digs, Thirkell depicts him fondly.
(hide spoiler)]I'm going to assume Thirkell improves and hopefully some of my friends at Retro Reads will join me for a group read of 
Well-written, mildly amusing novel of small-town, upper-middle-class English people having interactions and conversations. Dull romances and petty rivalries. Could have used more plot and less boys talking about trains. I'll most likely read another of her books sooner or later.This edition has quite a lot of typos, of the sort that are almost certainly the fault of careless production -- missing punctuation, accidental unneeded paragraph spacing, that sort of thing.
Both of my parents were born in that year, and so I wanted something special to fill that year in my Century of Books.Now I have read ‘High Rising’ I can say, firmly and clearly that I did the right thing -I loved it!I really can’t think of another author who has mixed charm, wit, cosiness and sparkle to such wonderful effect.The lynch-pin of the story is Laura Morland, the widowed mother of four sons.
Mrs. Morland thinks of herself as an author of good “bad” books--lively, highly popular but lowbrow stories set in the fashion world.
Along with Laura Morland, who returns in several of Thirkell’s later books, other characters in High Rising include rambunctious children, loyal but opinionated servants, devoted secretaries who nevertheless have their own agendas, an unflappable schoolmaster's wife, an infatuated doctor, and several hopeful but undeclared lovers both young and old.
Thrikell’s books are loosely connected stories with overlapping characters, most of them written at about the time they take place--in this case High Rising was set and written between the two world wars.
Her fictional books, which include 29 novels set in the fictional county of Barsetshire, were very popular in their day.
High Rising is the first of the Barsetshire novels and was originally published in 1933.
How will Laura resolve these and other issues facing the inhabitants of High Rising?
I am disappointed to learn that very few of these characters feature in the other books in the series.In summary, High Rising is a light, amusing and enjoyable book which provides some great insights into the life of English middle class households during the early 1930s and gets progressively better with each passing chapter.
This first novel in the Barsetshire series was definitely entertaining and full of mundane intrigues, but it wasn't as engrossing as I had been hoping for.
This is one of those books that didn't really leave me with much feeling or thought.
I just feel like it was "okay" and have no strong emotions about it.
Therefore, this review is rather short, but rest assured that this novel was interesting, indeed - just not interesting enough for me to continue on reading this series in the future.
Think P.G. Wodehouse, though with Wooster and Jeeves combined into a single character who is competent and wise, but prone to sentimentality and matchmaking.Three things to note that may harm your enjoyment, however.First, this book has a female villain who is hard to take by being both irrational an relentless.
I made sure this review is tied to the correct cover image and publisher, so if you see that image, know you have the inferior edition and look for a better one (if you can find it).Anyway, I'm sure I'll start working my way through Thirkell's oeuvre, now.
A wonderful comedy.Like most healthy men he thought that any illness was death.So he dismissed her from his mind, where indeed she had never held any very prominent placeA language and humor of Thirkell is simply splendid.
Marvellous characters which reader meets in one period of their life.
I am happy that there are many other Thirkell's novel which I haven't read yet.For more information I recommend Jane's review.PS I have found out right now, that The Demon in the House is about the adventures of Tony ;-) I must read it as soon as I find a copy.
Social comedy at its most entertaining, in that most ‘charmed’ period of hindsight: twentieth century British upper-middle class rural England between the Wars.
Mr Knox employs Miss Grey as his secretary; socially a difficult position for her, provoking any amount of razor-sharp questioning requiring serious deliberation.
Sure enough, much of the utterly delectable social comedy within ”High Rising” is founded upon conflicts of flesh and of spirit.
The humour inherent within Thirkell’s razor-sharp observation and timing lifts this book far above any possible accusation of pot-boiler.
Surely it cannot be long before “High Rising” is adapted for stage and television?
Not only is she mother to Tony, an indefatigable, talkative, train-obsessed child, she writes silly best-selling novels to support her family.
George keeps trying to lure away Laura's secretary, Miss Anne Todd, but Anne is busy caring for her dying mother and helps Laura out of personal motive.
There's also some anti-Irish sentiment here but that may be a reflection on the character Miss Grey than on Irish people as a whole.I kind of like Laura.
I liked her best when she was focused though I didn't quite understand her hatred towards Miss Grey at first.
I don't know if I'm just getting past my love affair with the cozy British novel or what, but I couldn't find a thing to like about any of the characters in this book.
I read a lot of fiction from the late 19th and early 20th century, so I know racism was common and I generally roll my eyes inwardly and move on, but Thirkell used it more than I've seen it just about anywhere.
I'm surprised more people haven't commented on it.About 1/3 of the way it, I was ready to give up, but other reviewers said the second half gets much more interesting.
I hadn't heard of Angela Thirkell but after reading the blurb at the back, I was interested.The story focuses on Laura Morland, a 45-year-old widow with four sons, three of which fully grown, who turned to writing novels, or "good bad books" as she says, in order to pay her boys' school fees.
We follow her from London to High Rising, as she interacts with her friends, Amy Birkett, headmaster's wife of said school, and the unmarried Anne Todd, who doubles as her secretary.
One that she is not prepared to relinquish.High Rising has plenty of humour and is the perfect read for those days when you just want to cuddle with a book.
I think I enjoyed it even more the second time around. Delightfully fun book. A story in which nothing much happens to a small group of people living in the English countryside. In other words, a book that is just up my alley.
I enjoyed this book more and more as it progressed and I got to know the characters. I really liked Thirkell's style, lovely language and sense of hunour. A lovely era to escape into. So pleased Angela Thirkell has written one or two more !
This is so delicious. And there are 30 books! I am besotted.
First published in 1933, High Rising is an old-fashioned gentle reading experience.
The protagonist, Laura Morland, is a widow with four sons who has carved out a life as a successful writer of less than literary novels.
Add to that mix a scheming, possessive, domineering secretary (known as the Incubus!) and a variety of old-style loves-in-blossom.
The result is a sweet, charming, often funny, love story.
I've already picked up Angela Thirkell's second novel, Wild Strawberries.
Older novels like these are comforting to read in a world gone mad.
I suspect I will become addicted to finding other books in this series –and hope Virago decide to publish some of the others.Laura Morland an attractive widow and successful novelist, collects her excitable youngest son Tony from school in time to spend Christmas and the New Year at her country home in High Rising.
Laura decides she must somehow rescue her old friend from Miss Grey, the woman she and her friends begin to call The Incubus.
These entertaining exaggerations of character are definitely part of the charm of these old fashioned social comedies.
"High Rising" is a humorous novel set in an English country village between the two world wars.
Laura is a likable widow who writes mysteries, which she calls "good bad books", to support her sons.
Their conversations are light and witty, and their servants add to the gossip."High Rising" is the first of a long series of novels set in Barsetshire, a fictional county created originally by Anthony Trollope.
The novel was written in 1933 so some readers might find it dated, where others would find it charming.I read the 2008 Moyer Bell edition of "High Rising", and it had more typographical errors than any book I've ever read.
This book was so funny.
It was so delightful.It should have gotten 5 stars.But there are ethnic slurs peppered through it.
The slurs are not funny.
The slurs are not delightful.
The slurs do NOT make sense.
The slurs are fairly mild, but why are they there?Normally, I am against overly sensitive, overly censorious modern re-editing of classics.
Their thoughts and attitudes are an important record of the past.But the slurs in this book add absolutely nothing.
They explain nothing and they could be easily dropped out.I won't be reading any more of Ms. Thirkell's books.
So funny and lighthearted! I loved the characters and dialogue. At times I felt a little lost, though, like I couldn't make the mental jumps as quickly as the author expected me to, and I would have to go back and re-read. But overall a lovely read.
Her social circle includes her Low Rising neighbor, stuffy but kindhearted history writer George Knox and his adult daughter Sybil, Laura's friend and part-time secretary Miss Todd, the local physician, Laura's publisher Adrian Coates and, on occasion, Amy Birkett, who is the wife of the headmaster at Tony’s school.
Soon Laura and her friends begin calling Miss Grey “the Incubus” and worrying about how they can ensure that this interloper doesn’t trap George Knox into marrying her.The lightweight but amusing story follows developments with Miss Grey and her secret opponents, along with some romance elements among the other characters.
I've been reading about High Rising for quite some time on various book blogs but wasn't able to get my hands on a copy.
Although I would love an older copy, the good people at Virago Modern Classics have republished High Rising and the second book in the series, Wild Strawberries, with beautiful new covers that just hit the stores.
Light, charming, quaint, funny - the kind of book you read when you just want to feel good in a safe world where the biggest concern is whether or not the neighbor is going to marry his secretary.
5 stars for being exactly the right book at the right time.
I immediately became engrossed in the day-to-day lives of all the characters, particularly Laura Morland, the writer and mother that the story revolves around.
As an avid reader of vintage detective fiction, this book had some of the same elements as the cosy crime books I enjoy - the village setting, interaction between characters and the warm feeling of becoming intimately involved in their lives.
But rather than murder and mayhem, the vital extra ingredients in this book were the wit and humour.I can see why readers get so involved with Angela Thirkell's cast of characters - I was hooked from the start and can't wait to read more.
What could be a better way to start the new year than by discovering a wonderful author--and one who was apparently delightfully prolific. High Rising has all the essential ingredients for a perfect cozy English Village tale: a charming heroine, a splendid cast of characters, witty dialog, a little romance, an impossibly talkative boy besotted with railways real and model, and best of all, a neurotic secretary with apparent designs on the menfolk. It is all great fun, an undemanding and easy read with a satisfying denouement. My New Year's resolution: read more Angela Thirkell!
High Rising, the first book in the Barsetshire series by Angela Thirkell, is an extemely amusing novel, filled with charming characters, much absurdity, irony and satire, and giggly froth. Published in 1933, it tells the story of the lives and loves of a handful of people in the villages of High Rising and Low Rising from the point of view of a 40-something writer of novels about the world of couture, Laura Morland.Read the rest of my review on my blog at:http://maryslibrary.typepad.com/my_we...
High Rising, the first book in the Barsetshire series by Angela Thirkell, is an extemely amusing novel, filled with charming characters, much absurdity, irony and satire, and giggly froth. Published in 1933, it tells the story of the lives and loves of a handful of people in the villages of High Rising and Low Rising from the point of view of a 40-something writer of novels about the world of couture, Laura Morland.Read the rest of my review on my blog at:http://maryslibrary.typepad.com/my_we...
Angela Thirkell is an acquired taste but one that is quite addictive once begun. Basically, she took the county of Barchester, created by Trollope, and peopled it with the descendants of his characters. Her books are set during the 30s and 50s, and depict English county life in a way that is alien but plausible to an American reader.It is not essential to begin with this one but it's easy to find, so why not read them in order?
Delightful 1930's comedy where the women are twice as clever than the men.
Purely entertaining, sometimes overly dramatic and stupid, but overall good old-fashioned fun that you either love or don't enjoy.
So those moments where a bit dragging and i wished that it would have been cut down a bit, but other than that its fun.The actual plot itself is completely silly but as i said its pure entertainment reading so if you expect deep and meaningful reading from this book?
You decided on the wrong one.I personally enjoyed this one and i will defiantly read the next one in the series, as well as re-read this book in the more distant future when i am in the mood of pure silly ridiculous entertainment.
"Laura Morlan, auteur à succès de livres qu'elle juge médiocre, passe Noël à High Rising avec son dernier fils, Tony.
Elle y retrouve avec plaisir ses vieux amis mais la nouvelle secrétaire de son voisin George Knox ne semble pas avoir que des intentions honorables.
Laura décide alors qu'elle doit le sauver des griffes de cette harpie..."Mais que s'est-il exactement passé entre vous?
Heureusement, il me semble que certains des personnages réapparaissent dans d'autres opus de l'auteur et je n'ai pas l'intention d'attendre trop longtemps avant de le découvrir."http://booksaremywonderland.hautetfor...
How did I not know about Angela Thirkell before now???
I so enjoyed this book and am getting as much of the newly reprinted Barsetshire series as possible.
Laura and her country house in High Rising set the scene perfectly for me.
I found she had a real voice as I read the book as did the others.
These places have come to life for me through Angela's writing.
