https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17802747-what-she-left-behind
In this book, the protagonist,  Clara Cartwright  is unjustly sent away to a mental institution known as Willard State.
Therefore, as result of this decision, Clara's father called 911 and told the authorities that his daughter was having an "episode." During her "imprisonment" at Willard, Clara was introduced to a couple of women who had met a similar fate.
There was also a woman sent away to Willard merely for kissing another man while married to another.
These are the "infractions" that could get an individual sent away to Willard.
I was also clueless that women were sent to a mental institution for next to nothing!
4 Stars.Imagine being an Eighteen Year-Old Woman named Clara Cartwright with a bright future ahead of you.
Izzy is currently living with Foster parents named Peg and Henry who actually seems to care about her.
While in foster care, Peg asks Izzy to help her with a work assignment cataloging old artifacts and records at Willard State Asylum.
In reviewing trunks of former patient’s belongings’, Izzy comes across Clara Cartwright’s journal’s, a photograph of her and Bruno and letters she wrote to him.
The way that Ellen Marie Wiseman interwove the stories of both Clara and Izzy is brilliantly done.
When money becomes a problem Clara finds herself in a state mental institution.In modern time, seventeen-year-old Izzy becomes part of the foster care system when her mother kills her father.
Izzy seems to have no idea why the murder took place and is unwilling to read her mother's letters to find out why.The two stories come together when Izzy current foster parents, museum curators, ask for her help in categorizing trunks left behind in no longer used state mental institution.
Clara's narrative is much more interesting but she deals with one bad thing or person after another that it lacks authenticity.
The brutal treatment that Clara endured at the Willard Asylum for the Chronic Insane and her heart wrenching sadness was just too much to bear.
Clara comes from a wealthy family and when she defies her parents and wants to marry for love rather than an arranged marriage, she is committed by her parents to a mental health facility and then is forced into a horrible existence in a public asylum, Willard.
It is chilling that Willard Asylum for the Chronic Insane was a real place in upstate NY and even more chilling for me is that I live just over an hour away.Absolutely 5 stars.
It's 1929 and 18 year old Clara Cartwright has just told her parents she is in love with a man they disapprove of.
The 2 stories converge when Izzy begins work on a project involving the recovering of items from the condemned asylum.
The tandem story structure worked well.
Overall, a super good read and I give it 4 ★Shortcoming to story - a reference to "BFF" was made in this book which threw the chronological timing of this novel off.
Wiseman, if you are going to use acronyms ensure they are created before the year your story is.
But in the end the author brought hope and light into the world of broken people, who were lost in a system's hospitals, institutions and jails which could not mend their fractured hearts, wounded minds and trampled spirits.In 1929 eighteen-year-old Clara Elizabeth Cartwright fell in love with a dashing but unacceptable Italian immigrant, Bruno Moretti.
Seventeen-year-old Isabelle (Izzy) Stone landed up with two employers of a museum, migrating through the foster system while her mother is serving a life sentence in the Elmira Psychiatric Center, for killing her father.
She had only herself to rely on.Her mother wrote her letters, which she refused to read for ten years.
Izzy's letters had postal stamps and post office marks.
Clara is a teenager in the 20’s who comes from a prestigious family: her father owned half of the largest bank in Manhattan and her mother was an heiress who had a lot of money.
That’s when Izzy comes across the story of Clara and wants to find out more.
She never knew why and her attachment to Clara, she hopes, will give her some insight and peace of mind.This is an interesting story and I was hooked almost immediately.
She set up the scene just enough without going overboard and pulling me out of the story.
I thought that Izzy's story had a more of a YA feel to it.
But maybe the author was trying to portray a more lighter side to Izzy's character over Clara's as hers was much more dramatic and powerful.
That actually happens to me sometimes when I read novels that have multiple views or character chapters.
The inhumane conditions of the insane asylum that Clara was a patient at for so many years were portrayed very well by the author.I thought Ellen Marie Wiseman did a really good job intertwining the two stories together which were well written and provided a satisfying ending.
What she Left Behind by Ellen Marie Wiseman a bit of a disappointing read for me.Firstly I have to say the Front cover of the paperback was beautiful  while the back cover of the book had "  Praise for Ellen Marie Wieman's The Plum Tree" and five different detailed short reviews by papers and magazines  and I found this strange as I would assume that this would have the blurb of the book I was currently reading and not a different book entirely by the author. I am very interested in books that d
What she Left Behind by Ellen Marie Wiseman a bit of a disappointing read for me.Firstly I have to say the Front cover of the paperback was beautiful 
The Vanishing Act of Esme Lennox.I think the length of time it took me to read this story is really reflected in the low rating that I gave the novel as I found it difficult to keep my interest in the book and just wasn't very enthusiastic about it.
What she left behind takes two stories Izzy' s story is set in the present time and Clara's one set in 1929.
Ellen Marie Wiseman’s What She Left Behind is a page-turner without much substance; the kind of story that stays with you about as long as it takes to stick it back on the shelf.The story is told through two narrative threads and revolves around two female characters.
Yes, high school can be a cruel place and bullying is horrible, but Wiseman’s portrayal was exaggerated and cliché.Overall, I would say that Wiseman spins an entertaining yarn, but her writing lacks subtlety and she needs to learn to sacrifice some of her beloved descriptions in exchange for more psychological and narrative complexity.
But I found myself checking both Amazon and good reads reviews to make sure I'd indeed downloaded the right kindle book, because this was not a well done book.
The characters were unreal, the writing juvenile--the language used is at times preposterous, the similes like something out of a Sweet Valley Twins book--I even now just went back to check genre thinking perhaps it was young adult?
The subject matter interests me and the authors had some ideas, but my goodness.
I really did like this one, but it felt a little YA for me.
I need edgy.The alternating stories of present day Izzy, who's mother sits in jail for killing her father, and Clara, committed to an insane asylum in 1929 tied the two together in unexpected ways.
Izzy is struggling with the possibility that her own mother was insane, among other things.
How dreadful and hideous conditions of insane asylums were at the time, with women having little recourse against men.
My only complaint is that this felt a little 'lite,' with everything tying up too neatly.
Izzy was a sympathetic protagonist, but in my view, having less of the story revolve around myriad personal problems that were created for her character, I would have preferred to see her cast as less of a main focus and become simply a lovely young girl working as an assistant to her parents in their museum project, in the process of which she becomes compelled to make efforts to right some of the wrongs done to another young woman 60 years previously.
I have not read all of her books - yet!
Clara a patient, subjected to all the bizarre and torturous treatments of the perceived mentally ill, and Izzy through her foster parents and a project to expose the lives of long past patients.
This book reminded me of The Lives They Left Behind: Suitcases from a State Hospital Attic by Darby Penney.
Wiseman in her acknowledgments admitted to basing this fictional book off of Darby's non-fiction book.
Having read Darby's book, this one was like an extension of one of the 'suitcases' left at the asylum.
Her father grounds her, forbids her to see Bruno, and, when Clara resists and argues, the police are called and she is taken to The Long Island Home for Nervous Invalids and later is transferred to the Willard Asylum.
Clara's improbable and horrible story is contrasted with a present-day tale of Izzy, a foster child in her Senior year of a new high school, whose mother is in prison charged with murdering Izzy's father.The uniting thread in the story is a trunk full of letters from Clara to Bruno, addressed, but never posted, and uncovered when Willard Asylum is set to be razed.
This is one of my top 5 most depressing books ever.
Yes. Was it incredibly unsettling and depressing?
Also, yes.
I feel so much sadness for the people sent to asylums who were unfairly and unjustly treated.
While this is a work of fiction, the asylum itself is a factual location, and you can only imagine some of the things that occurred there, which are touched on in this book.
The author drew inspiration from the book The Lives They Left Behind:Suitcases from a State Hospital Attic, and I'm hoping that one day I'll get the courage to read about the real patients of Willard asylum.
An author has unlimited choices in selecting tone, intensity and pacing.
This author chose over-the-top in all possible ways.
There is a letter on page 48 (I think) written from father to daughter explaining that he and his wife have lost money in the stock exchange and "so in order to keep our house and the lifestyle we are accustomed to", they will no longer be able to pay for her private care.
Those words reflect the author's viewpoint, not the character's.
My husband opened the book to the end and read aloud a passage that put melodrama to shame.

Reading these books on the treatment of the mentally ill in the past and the flimsy reason men could use to lock women away, make me terribly angry and sad.
Parts of this book was difficult to read because of the subject.Two storylines, one in the past and one in the present.
The treatment of the mentally ill was horrifying, how people could treat other people like that.
All in all this was an interesting look at the past treatment of those thought to be mentally ill, and a heartfelt story of two young women who have more in common than they know.
I won a copy of this book thru the Goodreads First Reads giveaways.
Absolutely LOVED this book.
The story is has two characters, one in the present and one in the past that are struggling to adapt to changes in their lives.
The way the author moved from one character to the next is just seamless.
The stories flowed very well together.
I wouldn't have normally picked this book to read, but now I am going to have to pick up the author's other books since this one was so good!
While I appreciated that the author wanted to convey the depravity of early mental health care, the daddy issues in this book are out of control.
Let me just break it down for you: Izzy's dad molested her as a child (which she obviously "suppressed" in the depths of her subconscious)...
Or worst of all, the utterly offensive (and unnecessarily frequent) allusions to Izzy & Beatrice's fears that mental health issues are somehow contagious and likely to manifest themselves at any given moment.
I know a lot of people liked this book, but it was a terrible experience for me.
Izzy is a 17 year old girl whose mother is in prison for killing her father for what appears to be no reason.
Izzy is currently living in yet another new foster home and is being bullied at school.Clara is an 18 year old girl who lives in 1929.
The two stories converge when Izzy's foster mother, Peg starts working on a museum project looking into the records at Willard and find Clara's steamer trunk filled with her belongings and her journal.
Clara and Izzy are so well portrayed, that you have compassion for both of them.
I think this book tried to tackle too many themes self harm, bullying, mental health, abuse. It was just too much at times, hard to sit through and wouldn't recommend this in one sitting. Even though this was fiction it has some historical accuracies, which makes it all the more horrendous. The plot was interesting as well as the main characters but what could have been a fantastic story ended up being abit mediocre, I think some of the topics were added for extra horror but only made the story seem forced and exaggerated instead of authentic.
This was an enjoyable story but a couple of things bothered me. The narrator (audio version) was really annoying, her inflection being overly dramatic and cheerful. Also, the author seems to be obsessed with vomit. Someone in the book was either vomiting, about to vomit, or nauseous constantly! It was probably mentioned 20 times! Other than that, the story held my attention and I eagerly listened as much as I could for the past two days. The setting is based on a real insane asylum in New York, in both the past and present time.
Both books have two (main) female characters, one whose story takes place in the 1920s and one in modern times.
In both books the young woman whose story is taking place now is in foster care and about to age out of the system (turning 18).
So it was difficult to stop comparing the books and just read this one and appreciate it for it's own merits.Like Orphan Train, this book is really well written and transitions between the two young women's stories seamlessly and ties their two stories together in a way which makes sense.Both of their stories, Clara's in particular, are quite moving and compelling.
Uživala sam od prve do zadnje strane.Super kombinacija prošlosti i sadašnjosti, malo me podsjeća na stil pisanja Kristin Hannah i to je još jedan plus u već odličnoj knjizi.
It was interesting reading about insane asylums in the early 1900's, and how people and especially woman were treated.
And the following fact from the author's notes shows just how shocking things were back then - Nearly half of the 54,000 individuals who entered Willard died there..
I have not read the author's previous book,The Plum Tree, but will add it now.The story: Merging the past and present, WHAT SHE LEFT BEHIND follows a young museum worker as she discovers a decades old journal inside a shuttered state asylum and is compelled to piece together the journal owner's fate—with shocking and unexpected results.
I plodded through chapter after chapter hoping to find the 4 or 5 star story many reviewers raved about, but 'twas not to be the case for me.
It's probably just me not being in the "right frame of mind" to read this terribly depressing story either way I could only read 40% until I decided to cut my losses because I could see exactly where this one was headed.
Clearly I'm in the minority here, so I'll just leave it with it's not the book, it's me.
When her father loses money in the stock market crash of 1929, Clara is removed to a state asylum.
(hide spoiler)] What is really horrible is that Clara's story is the story of many women (and men) who were forcibly kept in mental asylums and treated abysmally.
I originally thought of giving this book 4 stars because of the moderate writing and the lack of a coherent plot for Isabelle, but something in this book touched my heart.
This is a great book for everyone interested in the history of mental illness, but I recommend not reading this just after reading a book on the Nazis and watching Schindler's List like I did!
I really enjoyed this book and enjoyed both women's story lines. Clara's story was so heartbreaking and sad. It is horrible to think that there was a time when father's (and husband's) could get rid of their daughters (and wives) by having them committed. The conditions people were forced to live in once committed are heartbreaking. Izzy's story is also riveting. The stories come together as Izzy helps go through a long closed asylum with her foster parents she finds some letters. Letters that begin to tell Clara's story.
