https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/252577.Angela_s_Ashes
This absolutely entrancing memoir follows an Irish-American-Irish-American (more on this later) boy who comes of age during the Depression and the War years in a country gripped in the stranglehold of the Catholic Church, tradition, rampant poverty and unemployment, and the seemingly ubiquitous curse of the Irish: alcohol.Young Frank McCourt is born in American barely five months after his parents were wed.
Frank and his family move from slum to slum as his father drifts aimlessly from one job to the next and from one pub to the next, coming home at midnight to rouse his boys from bed, making them promise to die for Ireland.
What, did NO one find this book funny except me???
I must be really perverse.Although the account of Frank's bad eyes was almost physically painful to read, the rest of the story didn't seem too odd or sad or overdone to me.
My dad's family were immigrants; his father died young of cirrhosis of the liver, leaving my grandmother to raise her six living children (of a total of 13) on a cleaning woman's pay.
Life was hard.
And in between, life could be really, really funny.
I read his book, then I got to know him, and rarely will you find as similar a voice between the man and the writer as in this memoir. A tragic gem of a childhood story.
Dishonest at every level, slimeball McCourt managed to parlay his mawkish maunderings to commercial success, presumably because the particular assortment of rainsodden cliches hawked in the book not only dovetails beautifully with the stereotypes lodged in the brain of every American of Irish descent, but also panders to the lummoxes collective need to feel superior because they have managed to transcend their primitive, bog-soaked origins, escaping the grinding poverty imagined in the book, to achieve - what?
Spiritual fulfilment in the split-level comfort of a Long Island ranch home?
«خاکسترهای آنجلا» یا «اجاق سرد آنجلا»، اتوبیوگرافی نویسنده ی ایرلندی-آمریکایی ست که در سال 1996 میلادی برای نخستین بار چاپ شده‌ است.
خاکسترهای آنجلا، برنده ی جایزه ی پولیتزر، در رشته ی زندگی‌نامه در سال 1997 میلادی شده‌ است.
There once was a lad reared in Limerick,Quite literally without a bone to pick.His da used scant earningsTo slake liquid yearnings;In American parlance – a dick.To get past a father who drankIn a place that was dismal and dank,He wrote not in rhymes,But of those shite times A memoir that filled up his bank.
“If you had the luck of the IrishYou’d be sorry and wish you was deadIf you had the luck of the IrishThen you’d wish you was English instead”How can ONE book be so WONDERFUL and so HORRIBLE at the same time?
It’s difficult to imagine anything worse than a childhood crushed under the oppressive conditions of abject poverty, relentless filth and unmitigated suffering.
The children in “Angela’s Ashes” would have traded their lives for a life of merely suffering a miserable childhood in a heartbeat.And yet, somehow, Frank McCourt achieves a brilliant feat in this book.
This autobiographical book about Frank McCourt's childhood is so lyrical and well-written that I fell in love with it by the time I was on the second page.
And then it seriously took my heart and ripped it into little shreds and stomped on the remains.When I read Angela's Ashes my children were really young, about the ages of Frank and his siblings at the start of the book.
Life got better for Frank McCourt as he got older, and I managed to finish the book without more tears, but it's that heartwrenching first part of this book that really sticks in my memory years later.
It's told from the first person present perspective, which doesn't allow for as much mature reflection, but it does create a very immediate & immersive atmosphere.
And speaking of atmosphere, McCourt writes so descriptively and which such skill that you can really picture everything he's talking about.
It's incredibly well written, with a Joycean stream of consciousness that again contributes to the immersive quality of the story.
I'd recommend taking your time with this one, not only because it's depressive nature is a bit too much to bear in large quantities, but also because there's so much to savor and appreciate about McCourt's story and writing.

Angela’s Ashes is a beautifully written, painfully honest account of Frank McCourt’s childhood in Limerick, Ireland.Frank’s parents, both Irish, met in New York and began their family there.
McCourt himself was born in New York, but this was in the 1930s and the depression hurt everyone and everywhere, especially immigrant Irish with no resources.So back to Ireland they go to live near his maternal grandmother.
1930s Limerick was not much better than New York, especially for Frank’s father who spoke with a “north of Ireland accent”.Succinctly stated, the novel begins with this statement: “Worse than the ordinary miserable childhood is the miserable Irish childhood, and worse yet is the miserable Irish Catholic childhood”.
Read pre goodreads. I've seen it pop up on a lot of people's feeds. One of the most inspiring books I ever read.
I have to admit that I didn't love the first third of this book but I realize the information gained there made me enjoy the rest even more.
Near the end, the young boy is trying to figure out what adultery is by looking it up in the dictionary; he is forced to look up new words with each explanation he finds and the result it priceless.
There is also a part where an old man has the young boy read A Modest Proposal.
I love that essay and just read a parody of it within another parody, The Sorrows of Young Mike.
I just felt depressed while reading this novel. You can't imagine that people could live in such poverty and yet survive somehow. The book is gripping but makes you feel helpless..
Quite a few unleashed verbal vitriol at McCourt's memoir, claiming that it is not entirely accurate and that it is too mawkish/maudlin/bathetic.
In fact, as I read I liked that there were NO quotation marks used to indicate speech.
The book does not have to represent a meticulously accurate picture of what Limerick was like at the time; all it has to do, and all any memoir purports to do, is reveal what life in a particular place was like AS EXPERIENCED BY THE AUTHOR.
It is this fact that led some reviewers to claim that McCourt romanticized the rampant squalor and death.
Life is suffering.And the root of all suffering is want.And we want.
Oh, we want.We want the husband to keep the job and come home sober.
We want the kids to live.
We want shoes and clothes that fit and don't have holes.
We want to eat.
We want a roof that doesn't leak and indoor plumbing, for Christ's sake.We want the priest with the servant not to kick us from his door and tell us our suffering is caused by sin.
We want something kinder than guilt or shame.
We want friendship.
We want love.
We want more.Oh, we want.
Well, have you ever wanted anything?
I laughed, I cried, I felt dearly for the disadvantaged McCourt family that struggled against all odds.The memoir borrows heavily from the art of realism -- as tales of impoverished childhoods usually are.
McCourt was born in depression era Brooklyn to an alcoholic father who spent all his wages at the bar, and a mother disgraced and desperate to feed her starving children.
Additionally, Frankie, a devout Catholic, must reconcile his church values and practices with stealing to feed his family, his sexual awakening, and the continuing deaths of his family and acquaintances.
All in all, fantastic depression-era slice-of-life of a poor Irish family.
Picked this memoire to experience some more foreign countries through literature. Good choice. What could have easily been another misery porn (immense poverty, hunger, never-ending unwanted pregnancies, drunkenness, strict religion, deaths of TB and pneumonia on every other page) became something more because of the author's remarkable voice, filled with innocence, humor and almost unwavering optimism of childhood. Amazing that McCourt managed to preserve this voice well into his 60s.
It's been ten years since I've read this book.
Not so much.You want to know about Ireland:read the series of books starting with The Year of the French by Thomas Flanagan.
Very few books succeed in registering the sudden terrible impact of historical events; Thomas Flanagan's is one.
Subtly conceived, masterfully paced, with a wide and memorable cast of characters, The Year of the French brings to life peasants and landlords, Protestants and Catholics, along with old and abiding questions of secular and religious commitments, empire, occupation, and rebellion.
Frank McCourt, não precisou puxar pela cabeça para escrever um livro repleto de ingredientes que lhe garantissem sucesso imediato, bastou-lhe desfiar as memórias da infância passada nos bairros pobres de Limerick, na Irlanda.
A educação - em casa e na escola - era feita na base da chapada pedagógica, desde cedo que os miúdos aprendiam a defender-se e a desenrascar-se por sua conta.O brilhantismo do autor está na façanha de fazer deste ror de misérias uma história emocionante que ultrapassa qualquer ficção, de a ter contado com graça e ternura quando tinha todas as razões para se deixar levar pelo rancor.
Com um sentido de humor extraordinário conta-nos a sua vida dos quatro aos dezanove anos.
The title of this book can also be "How to find humor and "excitement" in pain and poverty?"#sad #funny #warm #honest #hope #survival #must-readFrank McCourt`s  Angela's Ashes  is a very interesting and a different kind of memoir... this will remain in your memory for a long time. Frank has written this book so well that most of the times, it feels like we are on this journey along with him. This memoir will teach us to find humor and laughter, even during the toughest times of life. "The master
The title of this book can also be "How to find humor and "excitement" in pain and poverty?"#sad #funny #warm #honest #hope #survival #must-readFrank McCourt`s 
is a very interesting and a different kind of memoir...
Frank has written this book so well that most of the times, it feels like we are on this journey along with him.
This memoir will teach us to find humor and laughter, even during the toughest times of life.
"The master says it's a glorious thing to die for the Faith and Dad says it's a glorious thing to die for Ireland, and I wonder if there's anyone in the world who would like us to live."
If you are afraid of your emotions, whether the depth or variety of them, don't read this book. If you can allow yourself to explore them fully by being led through an incredible life's early journey and experiencing the range of feeling available to humanity, you will love this book.
There are not words to describe how horrible I felt this book was. First, I was somehow under the impression that it was a WWII novel, so that was a disappointment to begin with. I really felt like the theme of this novel was how to survive life's trials and difficulties by masturbating. Someone please tell me if I am way off here.
You'll live forever but you'll never say challah like a Chew." I'm devastated this book is ending; it's been the most pleasurable part of my days over the past week.
It's of course depressing, I mean, like he says in opening "Worse than the ordinary miserable childhood is the miserable Irish childhoood, and worse yet is the miserable Irish Catholic childhood." I find myself adjusted to the constant string of tragedy after tragedy, the constant cruelty of the adults around him, and the constant poverty of his neighborhood simply because it's constant.
He adjusts and so does the reader.
One of my most favorite books and authors of all time.
I can't get enough of Frank's stories.
I also listened to him tell it on an audio recording, and it's even more awesome listening to his Irish accent.
The most compelling characteristic of his writing is the ability to write about a subject as dire and despairing as poverty and neglect, and make it so blisteringly funny, I'm in tears.
But as awful as his childhood was, he tells it in such a way - GOD, it's funny.
I will re-read this many times.
This is one of the most depressing and heartbreaking true-life novels I've ever read so be forewarned, this Pulitzer Prize winner is pretty tough to take.In the beginning, Francis (Frank) McCourt's family story starts out so desperate, you think it can't get any worse, BUT....IT....DOES!Frankie had a very short and dreadful childhood in Limerick, Ireland.
(and I dearly love my books), but thankfully this non-fiction nightmare came to an end...at least for me.Frank McCourt lived until the age of 78 and does have a sequel to this novel, "TIS", that continues his life story in America for those interested.
I am pleased that I chose this as my introduction to this writer, as I feel I will now have a better understanding of his ambition and how his childhood made him view the world and people around him.Heartbreakingly sad due to the horrible poverty and surroundings, I was amazed at how humorous this memoir actually was.
The Irish are a hearty people and McCort is a true example of that!
We follow his story from a young boy, with adult responsibilities to a young man setting out on his own.This is a story of his desire for something better, which the reader knows he achieved if you are aware of this writer.
This is probably the most unpopular of all my unpopular bookish opinions considering how this is supposed to be some sort of literary masterpiece or whatever... but ughhhhh, this book... Maudlin, over-sentimentalised, disingenuous, miserable, clichéd hack. It sent me into a five year book slump, or more accurately a phase of book avoidance, such was my abject experience reading it. If anyone ever asks me the question what among all the hundreds and hundreds of books you have read is the one that you wish you hadn't because you disliked it so much... It's this one.
روایت فرانک صادقانه به نظر میاد و چیزی که جلب توجه می کنه لحن طنز و بی خیال نویسنده برای بازگویی اون همه بدبختیه .
ادم نمی دونه ارزوی تموم شدن جنگ رو داشته باشه یا ادامه دار شدنش رو...دیگه این که از اونجایی که رویای همه زندگی فرانک مهاجرت به امریکا میشه و به هر کاری برای رسیدن به این آرزو دست می زنه تا هدفش رو محقق کنه خیلی خوشم اومد .
Couldn't bear it.
Someone once told me of a review of the book that they had read somewhere'Baby born, baby died, baby born, baby died, baby born, baby died, baby born, baby died; it rained'.Admittedy there was more to it than that, however I read it a long time ago and the gloom of the misery and rain hangs still over the whole thing in a ridiculously hyperbolic manner.
I can only think of one character who i warmed to and as i remember she was dying of something or other.Did not enjoy this and that was not because it brought me into contact with the suffering and misery of my fellow human beings which I couldn't bear to see but because it didn't.
