https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2137341.A_Man_Could_Stand_Up
As Ford progresses with Parade’s End the books cover less and less time; this entire novel takes place in Valentine’s and Tietjens’s minds on Armistice Day.Will they, won’t they…will they, won’t they…will they, won’t they--ever be happy?
A Parade is an artificial thing, and all of the parades that Christopher Tietjens has decided are over for good--Tory England, the Empire, the actuality (but not the technicality) of his marriage, the behavior of an English country gentleman-are constructed and constrictive, even if they keep the place going.
These comments refer to the entire series, Parade's End.This is the 3rd book of the quartet that makes up Parade's End. It's hard to describe just how astonishing this work is.
Page after page of dialogue has the characters talking to each other but not hearing or not understanding or not listening to what the other character has to say.
Or "I can't hear you!" How so true and real Ford makes this human condition!
I'm so stymied as to why Joyce et al are still read and studied, but not Ford.
Why???If you've not read Parades End , I urge you to do so.
Even then, the initial modernist writers would not give up their roots entirely, even though they knew these traditions would die with them.Some critics, like Grahme Green iirc, believed that Parade's End was originally meant to end with A Man Could Stand Up. They make the claim that Mr. Ford was forced to write the fourth book, The Last Post, and that he always regretted it.
Christopher Tietjens has gone through a character change, from the pure eighteenth century Tory of parades to a Man who could stand up in the new post-war world.

I took a break after the first two and am so glad I did.
The language, the characters, the dialogue, everything was so sharp and wonderful and I was able to attend after the hiatus.
The exploration of their relationship feels like a very modern love story, forgetting the upward mobility class settings, World War One, a society in its pivotal change, a novel about two people who just need to find the time (and space) to just talk is a better love story then most.
I missed Sylvia though...
Which is what the book is, really: a very tight winding in the distinct voice of the times.Not a re-read for me.
If I was forced to choose one to re-read, it would definitely be A Man Could Stand Up–, which has some achingly beautiful language and moments.__________I had decided to move this book up on my queue when I saw that the new British TV series was written by Tom Stoppard.
(For Stoppard reviews, see here and here.) Of course, Cumberbatch fever helped.I ended up watching the whole five-part series while I was on a break from reading the novel, which has confused me considerably.
I have moved back to the "no so good" side of the equation for this 3rd book in the series. Too much wandering about over too short a time span. I want more meat on these bones. (Purchased at Ca' Foscarina bookshop in Venice)
3.5 rounded up.A little bit of a stretch to the parts that I wanted. Pretty great trench life stuff here. and a very touching ending. one more book to go. I'm so excited to watch the show.
I think my eyes skipped over a lot of this installment. I loved it dearly, but there was altogether a bit too much round and round in circles about the war. But, oh, the last forty pages . . .
I have for the moment taken Graham Greene’s advice (me and Graham, Graham and me) and am excluding the final, Last Post from this note, as he argued it was not of the same quality and has held back rightful recognition of the first three novels, Some Do Not, No More Parades, and A Man Could Stand Up. They at least and for the moment, are interlocking, mutually reinforcing, masterpieces.The three novels cover the period immediately before, during and the close of the Great War. They look at the surge of change that was sweeping over society anyway, engulfing “the last Tory in England”, Christopher Tietjens, who was realising that there would be no more ‘parades’, no more a sense of honour and the right way of doing things, no more the values of England: and this, even before the Great War blasted such values to smithereens in every sense.It’s quite hard work at times, especially in the first books, as FMF – a child of his times of course – opts for the kind of experimentation with style that prevailed in the first decades of the twentieth century.

Its been a long time since I read Celine's Journey to the End of the Night - but that also had this element of the absurdity of the war told in a clattering exhausting repetitive welter of thought; but I think this is better; part of me wonders about influence.Ford's description of the trenches is just astounding - amongst the best I have read - I say rush, but he can switch into slow motion movement; which just piles on a feeling of relentlessness.
Amazing.Not sure if I want to read The Last Post now; I'd be happy sitting with this as the end...
A Man Could Stand Up is the third novel in Ford Madox Ford's tetralogy Parade's End. This volume begins on Armistice Day with a focus on Valentine Wannop, Christopher Tietjens' maybe-yes, maybe-no lover.
In the second part of the novel the focus shifts back in time to the front where Christopher finds himself immersed in the pointless, futility of "modern," industrialized warfare.
He describes the role played by geology and soil structure on the effectiveness of trenches.
The third part of the novel finds Valentine at Grey's Inn waiting to be reunited with Christopher.
She decides to go to him and look after him.Then, in part 2 time goes back a few months and we learn about Tietjens, having been sent to the trenches at te end of the former book, in the dirty trenches war.
Here too, because I am not familiar with the army, I had some difficulty in following everything, but nevertheless I found this part gripping.Ford really is a great writer.
In the first part Valentine Wannop, and in the second part Christopher Tietjens.The third parts is set just after the war has ended and shows how some of the characters decide how to fill their lives after the war.
However, when the end of the war comes, Christopher Tietjens is not in a position to stand up; he is suffering from shellshock exacerbated by the treatment he receives from his dreadful wife Sylvia.
The outer two thirds of the novel are about this period in his life, the central part being a flashback to the last few months of the war when he was on the front line.A Man Could Stand Up is the weakest of the four novels in Parade's End, not really advancing the plot nor giving any new insight into the characters.
A Man Could Stand Up is even more dependent on the other novels in the tetrology than the two preceding it, but it distances itself from them considerably.
Tietjens, who had been severed from his tradition by his first injury and call to the front lines (also reflected in the much more stable chronologically of this novel, as opposed to the interweaving flashes of memory which made up the preceding two), is made a tabula rasa by his experience there.
Book three in Ford's Parade's End. While this part focuses on both Valentine and Tietjens, what is most memorable and perhaps the most difficult part of the three volumes so far is the extended section covering Tietjens in the trenches in 1918.
This has proved a lesson in patience for a reader that tends to read for narrative only.
Still, this has become a labor of love for me and I am in the midst of the last book, The Last Post.
This third part of Ford's novel about WW1 deals with the cental character, Christopher Tietjens, experiences in the trenches of WW1. The detail and descriptive narrative is very powerful, and I found myself feeling as if I was in the trenches with the men, suffering alongisde the soldiers the stress, agonies and deprivations they went through. Hard to read in the sense that the language is very dense but moving, but repays the effort if you wish to understand why such an awful war changed society so irrevocably.
This was a very intense book, but not for the reasons that I had expected. The frustration that builds up in the first two books, as Tietjens is forced into worsening situations, comes to a head at last in the trenches. Here, he resolves (at last) to abandon his "Parade" with Sylvia and to take up with Valentine when he returns home. The scenes in the trenches are of course arresting, but by far the more compelling storyline is that of the forbidden love between Valentine and Tietjens.
Damn these books are challenging. I couldn't get through it all at once..had to take numerous breaks and read other books. But no matter. I got through this one finally.The chapters with Valentine are 10x better than just Tietjens...easier to follow. But they're all still brilliant. It's hard to describe. Because it makes me brain hurt. But I still love it somehow. I'm sure one day I'll read it again and love/appreciate it even more. Or that's the plan.
Free download available at eBooks@Adelaide.This is the third book of the tetralogy Parade's End.The last book of this series is The Last Post.My full review of this series will come after I've finished the fourth volume.
It is hard to rate something from so different a time. I was as interested by the biography of this book -- it's life in the world -- as the book itself. For my era, it was slow paced. But it gave me a thorough experience. The protagonist is never labeled 'shell shocked' or PTSD. And somehow that makes his struggle all the more moving. He just wades through it to hope.
I like this most out of the Parade's End series, probably because it was most accessible. The scenes set in the trenches of the First World War I felt had a resonance of Ford's experiences, similar to Sassoon's but not as personal. At times Ford's writing is like wading through treacle and he wouldn't be to everyone's taste.
The third book of the Parade's End tetralogy begins on Armistice Day. Valentine receives a barely intelligible phone call at work from Edith Ethel about Tietjens being home and mad. We hear more about Tietjens last days on the front lines where he saves a couple of soldiers' lives and General Campion does his best to ruin Tietjens. This one was a good read; I can't wait to finish the series.
As the series progressed, each book covered a shorter time span. This one covers just two days- Armistice Day 1918, and a day in April 1918 when Christopher might have been killed, but was not.I shall move straight on to the final book, though I am reliably informed that Ford should have stopped with the third one.
As the only volume in the sequence that actually takes the reader to the Western Front, one would expect this to be full of sound of fury, but is, unexpectedly but appropriately, every bit as complex, rich, and subtle as its predecessors.
I read this one separate from Ford's tetralogy for a class, and it stands well on its own. It's a little hard to read, but Valentine and Christopher's characters are extremely well written and very intricate.
I read all four books in this series, and although I found them easy enough to read, I didn't have a clue what was going on half the time.Maybe it's me.
Book 3 of Parade's End quartet--best one so far, a CATCH 22 for WWI England.
Almost finished reading this *on Armistice Day* but not quite. Review now up on my blog.
