https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25152.Uzumaki
We get to know adults and kids in this one, and things get increasingly crazy.
The central characters are Kirie Goshima (a sculptor's daughter), Shuichi Sato, who ate different times discuss leaving town, which seems like it would have been the best thing....
In another chapter Kiri grows hair into spirals and do does another girl, and their hair does battle!
The visuals, again, are crazy, but amazingly imaginative.
Ito is inspired, as he shows in a chapter focused on his creating the series.
But hey, I already told you it is horror, so that' what you'er paying for.
This pacing is perfect and I love the MCs.The whole town has gone truly sideways.
I love it.
I love it.
He's turned nature and the normal state of reality into something truly horrific and awe-full.
This is quick, disturbing, and while I want to say it's truly creative, I've read and seen enough wonderful works using the golden ratio that I can only tip my hat at how WELL it was pulled off.
It's fully self-contained and truly magical.
There's only twenty issues -- or three volumes, so it's a quick read, complete, and worth every moment.
Lovecraft approves of your spirals. (Except for that last story, with the hair. That was weak. Still creepy, but weak.)
CONFESSION: This is the first manga I’ve ever read.
While I love graphic novels in general, for whatever reason, I’d just gloss over the manga titles like they were telephone books.
Perhaps it’s because they read backwards from the English titles that I’m used to.
This is one of the best graphic novels I’ve ever read.
Granted, it’s only volume one (of three) so there’s no resolution to the main storyline here, but in this tale of a town that is terrorized by the shape of a spiral (weird, right?) told in episodic fashion, it is near-perfect in execution.
I adored the died of a horror manga simply based on the idea of a "spiral." I now genuinely get freaked out by the idea that part of the inner ear has a "spiral." My main and only issue is that it dived straight into the horror aspect before we get to know the characters. Because of that, part of me didn't care if everyone died.
Okay fuck that was creepy.I'm only at Chapter 4 yet and won't probably be able to continue for quite a while because I have to return the book, but holy fuck, I've never been so disgusted and creeped out by a book.Junji Ito, what kind of world do you live in?
A creepy comic about a town in Japan that suddenly gets cases of people going crazy and it all has to do with spirals.The comic (manga) consists of 6 chapters, short stories within a larger context if you will, all detailing events in the same town as seen through the eyes of a young teenage girl.
I wouldn't call myself a fan of the art / the artist's style, but it was nice and appropriately creepy and the black-and-white actually helped intensifying the sense of abstract dread and downright weirdness.There are two more volumes and, supposedly, we'll get an answer as to WHY this is happening by the end of volume 3.
I don’t think I’ve read a horror that’s got so abstract a big bad, AND Junji Ito manages to make them disturbing too so kudos!Our hero is schoolgirl Kirie whose boyfriend’s father is obsessed with spirals – and then terrible things happen to him!
Then another girl is obsessed with the boyfriend and gets involved with spirals – and terrible things happen to her!
Kirie’s gone through so much in this book, she has from the same problem as all horror protagonists when they’re in a haunted place: why don’t they leave?
But as inventive as his stories are and as horrifying as I would find these tales had they been committed to film, they come off rather sterile in screentones.Which is not to say that Ito’s Uzumaki isn’t a good time.
What it isn’t, however, is in any way horrifying.Uzumaki, in Japanese, means “spiral” (hence the helpful English subtitle for the book: Spiral into Horror) and throughout these three volumes we become well acquainted with a town that is becoming possessed by the idea of the spiral.
Obsession for spiral?
It started from a small town, Kurōzu-cho which is cursed by supernatural events.
The main lead, Kirie asked by her boyfriend, Shuichi to leave the town.
Shuichi has eerie feeling with his surrounding but Kirie didn't really buy it.
Then, the bizarre phenomenon start from Shuichi's father.
His obsession towards spiral caused several deaths including him.After what happened to his parents, Shuichi rarely leave his house.
He believed with the spiral curse.
From a strange new girl in town who bewitched boys; not include Shuichi till a Romeo and Julie kinda couple but in twisted way.
Daha bu gün başladım, başlar başlamaz öykülere, çizimlere, karakterlere saplandım ve bitene kadar elimden bırakamadım. Obsesyon yaratan, eserin ana konsepti gibi sipiraller, sarmallarla sizi ele geçiren bir yönü var. Çok başarılı buldum. Her hikaye birbirinden güzel. Manga severler bir tarafa korku, tekinsiz, gizem sevenler muhakkak edinmeli. Son olarak çizgilerin tipik Japon / Kore karakteristiği yansıtmadığını, çok güzel betimler bulunduğunu söylemeliyim. Müthiş. Kaçırmayın :)
I-didn't-get-the-horror-memo-stars Spiral Obsession (part 1) : 3/5Spiral Obsession (part 2) : 4/5The Scar: 0.35/5The Firing Effect: 2.75/5Twisted Souls: i won't bother with any ratingMedusa: WHY??? 1.5/5Artwork : 4/5 though I wish it was a little less text heavy.So, over all 2.85 underwhelmed starsP.S: I liked the Afterword better than most of the stories.
Sincerely, this style of manga don't like me at all. Too much gore and obscure...
Ooooookay... That was the creepiest thing I've ever read. But since I love creepy, of course I enjoyed it.Can't wait to read Vol. 2 'cause I've god a feeling that it will be even creepier.
¿Para qué leer Uzumaki?1. Para conocer como la mente retorcida de este autor puede reformualr el tema de lugares y ciudades embrujados. 2. La manera en que plasma la locura, la desesperación y el dolor no tienen igual. 3. El usar el tema de los espirales para causar terror es bastante original. 4. Las muertes son tétricas y espeluznantes.
What an absolutely unsettling experience. There's something eerie about the abstract nature of the book's cosmic, Lovecraftian forces of evil that shook me to my core. Who knew that the absurd obsession with the abstract concept of a "Spiral" could create such horrors...
4.5 Stars - Who knew that spirals could be so horrifying!?!Playing with elements of psychological horror, the manga was incredibly dark and twisted. I honestly did not expect to have such a strong reaction to this deceptively simplistic story. The artwork was incredibly disturbing and gruesome. I highly recommend this weird manga to serious horror readers looking for an intense reading experience.
If you haven't heard, Uzumaki is about the curse of spirals that infests a small town in Japan.
But once an obsession sets in, the curse triggers truly supernatural events that cause the victims' lives to spiral down.
Each chapter is punchy and tells its own story, loosely linked together by a few observer characters.
The punchy chapters are compelling reads; I went through a hundred pages in a half hour.
These impossible things are far creepier.The essence of the spiral (which is never properly explained in this volume) is that it is an unending shape.
You were a fully-funded Nope Factory operated by unionized nightmares and your non-OSHA compliant slurry still trickles into my waking thoughts years laterGood job.
One panel in particular made me gasp and I had to place my hand over the picture in order to continue reading the story.
The townsfolk are being possessed and consumed with a spiral obsession.
The book is an easy read but disturbing and meaty enough that I am happy I bought a copy.
Most manga and comic type books these days read too quickly.
Yet there was enough story here to keep me interested and thankfully I did not read it all so quickly that I was finishing barely after beginning.
The art and story complimented eachother perfectly.
Gawd.HOW is this NOT an american movie yet???
this has AMAZING pottential for an American Horror Movie...REAL Horror, not that blood-n-guts stuff they pass off as 'horror' nowdays...This is the story of a village.
A village infected with SPIRALS.Oh sure.
as MUNDANE, as a 'spiral' becomes greater than just one aspect of the world, one pattern...
but this, like many other 'surreal' movies (like "Ink" and "Pan's Labyrinth" would make an EXCELLENT movie that would make your SKIN crawl.You have spirals on the skin over your fingertips you know....and they don't stop there.Don't think too long, too hard, about it...
or YOU could get infected, too.
esto sí que es extraño.
Y es que aunque no es malo, tampoco puedo decir que me haya gustado o ni siquiera que lo haya disfrutado.
Me afecto tanto como aquella vez que vi el trailer de la película El ciempiés humano, y pensé ¿A QUÉ CLASE DE PERSONA SE LE PUEDE OCURRIR ESTO?
PD: Aunque tengo la duda de cual es el misterio con los espirales y por qué comenzó todo, me dijeron que las cosas van siendo más graficas y explicitas cada vez, así que no creo que lea los tomos restantes.
This review is for the entire series. Uzumaki is truly visceral horror, body horror so extreme you feel nauseous. It isn't even splatterpunk and there's little gore, but it's very distressing just the same. I couldn't even look at swirly for a couple of days after reading this. True to Ito's style, there is never any hope, and all we can do is watch everything crumble so very, very slowly. Be glad this is a work of fiction... or IS IT?
You can't win with this thing...I think... I enjoyed it... Now off to find some snails...
This was definitely different. This is one of the stories that I'll continue to think about for weeks after. Spirals...
Sarmallar üzerine bu kadar şey yazılabileceğini hayal dahi edemezdim. Devamı nasıl olacak çok merak ediyorum. İyi ki devamı var elimde. :3

This was weird, scary and surprising (in a good way)it was pretty fun to read but overall not worth it for me
3+Creepy? Not much.Amusing? Hell Yeah!Artwork was good... with some excellent crooked frames!Liked the concept of building up on spirals. Ever tried meditation using concentric circles or spirals?Well, try it again after reading this and I'm sure you'll get a "different" experience!The way I look at spirals will change forever.Will continue with this trilogy, mostly because of fascinating art work.
It's weird all right but when I finished the volume I just asked myself So what?
Usually I get scared pretty easily but this is just a bunch of weird stories with some disturbing images, but there are a lot of disturbing manga out there and I've read a few.
Maybe it was the absence of a story, maybe the characters (I didn't really care for any of them) or maybe the fact that I can't get afraid of a spiral..
I'll finish this manga but I don't have high hopes for the other volumes.
