https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/273331.Absolute_Surrender
If only we took this kind of thinking to heart instead of calling people who disagree with us false teachers or 'nominal Christians'!I have immense respect for Andrew Murray after reading this and 'Humility'.
After all, Jesus didn't spend a lot of time yelling at people.I know I'm coming off as being sarcastic, but it really irks me that people won't pick up something like Murray but will go out of their way to embrace the "Christianity is the American Dream" stuff that all the talking heads want to sell us.
The only way of getting the fullness of what God has for you is to surrender absolutely to His Spirit and Christ's sacrifice.
Life changing! Absolutely mind altering. Highly recommended. Borrow it or buy it, whatever you do, get this book and carefully read every word. Take notes. Dwell on it. Let it soak in and consider the challenge and call that is presented before you.
An extraordinary example of this type of literature. Vastly better written than many contemporary exhortations toward Christian living. Murray thrived in South Africa over a century ago, but his many works on theology and Christian living reverberate with today’s readers. His scholarship and doctrine are at the same time orthodox and lucid. This particular edition was “revised for readability and clarity,” greatly improving the accessibility of Murray’s original text.Murray's counsel is arranged in compact chapters, each well-written and organized.If you read only one devotional this year, read this one.
Wow! This book is powerful, convicting, and encouraging all at the same time. I am ordering myself a hardcopy so I can highlight and reread easier.
Murray's point: it's coming to a point of helplessness in ourselves, that empties us for Christ to fill us --- and then true fruit can be born, from his strength, not ours.
It's not our trying that sanctifies us or allows us to do "kingdom work", but a sense of our inability to do and obey, combined with close communion with Jesus, and faith that through the Spirit he will give us the power to do what he's commanded.
hallelujah."The cause of the weakness of your Christian life is that you want to work it out partly, and to let God help you.
You must come to be utterly helpless, to let God work.
And when I reached the chapter "Kept by the power of God", I cried.
Knowing what a failure I am and how much of remaining sin was still in me this book was a breath of fresh air, even though Murray is a bit perfectionistic in some of his teachings.
I could not believe that coming and continuing in a relationship with God did not depend on me, but on God, him choosing me in eternity past, transforming my character to that of Jesus his Son, and keeping me all the way to eternity future!
I was blown away and could not believe what I read.
I cried and thanked God for his kindness to me!
The depth and richness of the challenges set forth by Murray are of such caliber that every Christian should read this book and could you benefit from making it a yearly habit.Murray sets forth the premise that Christians are living life without the power and grace of God because they are not fully surrendered to him; absolutely surrendered is the term he borrows.Starting with the example of King Ahab in I Kings 20, with particular attention to verse four, Murray shows the heart of absolute surrender.
From this challenge, Murray then gives examples of the benefits and blessings of being absolutely surrendered to Christ and calls all Christians to seek such a life.*I received a complimentary copy of this book from the publisher in exchange for my honest review.
Powerful book and great as long as you realize that God accepts us totally in Christ because of His absolute surrender for us on the cross.
Our absolute surrender is the only appropriate response.
Also, our surrender to Him is active obedience (Romans 12:1-2) and trust in Him. John Owen's little book "the mortification of sin" would be a good follow up to illustrate that we will always be putting to death the flesh by the power of the Spirit.
It's not something you can do in an afternoon, but I lifelong response to Christ and His life, substitutionary death, resurrection, and current work as our perfect prophet, priest, and king.
I typically do not write reviews until fully completing the book. However, this book is LIFE CHANGING and I am only through chapter 3.
We've all heard the expression, "you have to respect the classics." I first heard it from one of my uncles while driving down the beautiful west coast of California.
For instance, African speakers tend to talk in a circle, embellishing the idea and rehashing it as the pedals of a flower do around a daisy.
Either way, the idea of "let go and let God" has always been an expression slippery to the touch for me, and I was hopeful that this book might be able to rid the phrase of its greasy polish.
Workers, take your place every day at the feet of Jesus, in the blessed peace and rest that come from the knowledge—I have no care, my cares are His!
We love the Lord, we follow Him (or try to) and we go to church, but we do not succeed as Christians, we fail daily, and our strivings come to little.
If you're a Believer and you seek to follow the Lord, if you're and unbeliever and you want to understand the true power of God, if you suffer from anxiety, if you doubt, if you wish to be closer to God....read this book.
Andrew Murray has become my source of great conviction and inspiration. Absolute Surrender was more of the same. Powerful, rich and keenly insightful. An important book for every follower of Christ who wants more faith and fruit.
A very small number of statement he makes, I have to research to determine their biblicality, but for the most part, he appears spot on, and Andrew Murray is so refreshing. Read him regularly to re-set your eternal perspective.
A MUST READ!!!
He writes quite poetically, which I think is meant to stir the emotions, but once one comes down from the emotional high and really reflects on what is being said and how to accomplish it, the matter becomes entirely unclear.There were occasions where I felt that Murray spoke against himself.
On the one hand, Murray emphasizes that the Christian fails because he/she tries to live the Christian life in his/her own strength.
The remedy, then, is to give one's self up entirely to God, to let God and "His" power live through the believer.
Andrew Murray discusses the need for us to surrender ourselves to the will of God and hold nothing back.
It is a book that is both convicting as it looks at our repeated failures to "be ye perfect even as your Father which is in Heaven is perfect", but also empowering as it reminds us that "the things which are impossible with men are possible with God".
And in fact, our continued efforts to do on our own what is only possible for God is at the root of our struggles.
Hence, the need for absolute surrender.
I really think that every Christian should read this book.
Instead of telling you why you should read this book, here is a quote that blew my mind."The great hindrance to trust is self-effort.
As long as you have your own wisdom and thoughts and strength, you cannot fully trust God. But when God breaks you down, when everything begins to grow dim before eyes and you see that you understand nothing, then God is near.
That is the beginning of faith -- utter despair of self and dependence on God alone."Bam!
However, I gave it three stars because Murray makes living the Christian life sound so easy--that you can do this thing with little sin if you just have enough faith and spend enough time with the Lord.
This can be misleading, especially to new Christians who have yet to encounter any real trials.
My thinking has been heavily influenced by John Newton, and I believe it is always better to err on the side of grace rather than to potentially encourage legalism.
This is definitely NOT what Murray intends, but I think it could very easily be the take away for some readers.
I recieved the baptism of the Holy Ghost 34 years ago without ever reading the book.
Just the cover and title was sufficient to convert me.
Always praying that same prayer through the years; Lord, I surrender all.
I finally decided to order the book and this time I started reading it.
I am almost to the end.
How much pain could I have saved myself if I had read it when it was first given to me.
Awesome book that all who seek a relationship with God should read.
Powerful book. Yes, God demands absolute surrender. Romans 12.1,2 makes that very clear. It takes many many years before Christians realize that 'God gave ALL, and He demands ALL'. We will never understand God and Christ till we surrender ourselves absolutely, totally, fully to the Lord Jesus Christ. I am going to read this book again! Been reading The School of Obedience by Andrew Murray and it is cutting me deep in my heart. That's how powerful this book is; and that makes me want to get back to Absolute Surrender once again!
MUST readThis is another great short book by Andrew Murray. Every believer should read it. Every worker, pastor and/or church planter should read it at least twice. It will definitely be a blessing to you and the ones you are serving. You will learn the most important spiritual discipline. I would highly recommend it to anyone. Get it, read it and pass it on.
Christian books are a dime a dozen, but given enough time, a special few rise to the top of the heap. Absolute Surrender will remain one of the most encouraging and compelling books for a believer. It's bold without being harsh, like a grandfather's admonition. Murray was anointed when he wrote this one.
Andrew Murray is such an inspiration to me. Reading him is always challenging and encouraging.
Excellent.
This book, it should be stated without any ambiguity, is certainly tough-minded, and the author makes plain over and over again how insufficient our own efforts are in reaching any standards of righteousness as well as any power.
This is done without any sort of ambiguity whatsoever--whether a reader appreciates the author's direct approach or not, the author is not the sort of man to mince words or disguise his beliefs, but rather is one to lay out his beliefs openly before the reader, come what may.One of the notable insights this book brings to the table, and it is not a new insight but is certainly a very relevant one, is that a large part of the reason for the failure of Christians to make a more positive influence on the world is because of a lack of maturity and growth.
I have told you to go to the God of omnipotence and the God of the Word" (118)."Do not try to stir and arouse faith from within.
Look up into the face of your loving Father, and take tie every day with Him" (118)."In great helplessness, but in great restfulness, let us place ourselves in His hands" (119).I wouldn't wholeheartedly recommend it to anyone, but I enjoy works like this from Murray and Bounds, and they definitely help stir one up in their faith.
3.75/5 - This book is good for those who can take some of the errant theology with a grain of salt and look at the overarching theme.What I liked:The author's prose speak right to you.
His desire to have the reader surrender EVERYTHING is made abundantly clear and I appreciated that.
I often use the title to explain part of my theology: to absolutely surrender everything at the feet of Jesus.
However, I was able to ignore this and found the overarching theme (see above) of absolute surrender to be edifying and enjoyable.
Andrew Murray is such an anointed author.
I was literally in tears when I first read about Peter's repentance in chapter 4.
Classic and passionate writing like this brought me to my knees.
Andrew reminded me how good God has been to me all these years and how my life is a proof of what the omnipotent God can do.
"If I am something, then God is not everything; but when I become nothing, God can become all." As I become poorer, lower and more helpless, Christ will work all in me...
This was a good book that I will revisit.
It was short, concise and used much scripture.
Scripture was quite familiar, but assembled in a way that provides a vision to get to surrender.
The branches need to be pruned and must be connected to the Vine.
The Vine provides all of the nutrients and everything necessary for healthy, delicious apples, the branch only need receive.
Pruned branches receive the most and produce the best and lasting fruit."Upon reflection, processing and remembrance, I have upgraded this book from 4 stars to 5 stars.
While I think this book is great and will reread it in the years to come, I wasn’t a fan of the first chapter as Murray makes some really strong statements that aren’t very biblically backed up. It started the book on a negative note but chapters 4 & 5 were amazing and rekindled in me a desire to devote myself to more prayer. The 2nd half of this book is one of the best I’ve ever read and was nourishing. There are great insights in this book and it is a very worthy read.
