https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8536.Bonecrack
Neil's relations with his father have never been good (a frequent problem for Dick Francis's protagonists), and the last thing he wants to do is assume this responsibility.
Should Griffon fail to do so, the crook will destroy the stables and inflict great bodily harm on Griffon himself.Obviously, this seriously bad guy has never read a Dick Francis novel or he would have had sense enough to take his son and his threats to another stable.
Anyone who ever has read one of these books understands immediately that any Dick Francis protagonist will face such threats stoically, bravely, and intelligently.
I am rarely disappointed with a Dick Francis mystery; him and his wife were masters of the balance between affable protagonists and intensely cruel villains. Bonecrack carries you along effortlessly through the British countryside, and dumps you in the middle of life-and-death action and onion-layer mystery immediately. Incredible book!
It felt a bit too predictable, too much like a typical Dick Francis thriller: here's the quiet but determined bystander, here is the bully villain without conscience or remorse, add some love interest and place everything in or around Newmarket.
Also, compared to other books by the author, this one really goes to the races, and is not putting the spotlight on flying or banking or other alternate pursuits.Dick Francis may be predictable, but he has the knack of wrenching those heartstrings time and time again.
Confession: In a universe without assigned reading in college courses, I never would have picked up this book.
I'm glad I don't live in that universe, because I would have missed out.
The narrator is a man forced into a desperate situation within the opening pages (this book has one of the best opening lines I've ever read, by the way), thus automatically winning our sympathies.
There are themes beyond the good guy vs.
bad guy plot; fathers and sons is a big one and the payoff from exploring that dynamic is satisfying, if also a little heartbreaking.
To summarize -- good stuff!
Thank goodness for assigned reading.
Of all the Dick Francis I have read, this is by far my favorite.
The son and father relationship that is presented has an interesting twist in the end.
The father is in the Italian mob, and his son wants to be a jockey.
There are two father-son relationships presented though.
Its easy to see as the first book Francis wrote, is about a fathers.
However, in the end, the sons overcome these father's flaws and become better people.
Besides all the jockey information, I recommend reading this book.
Another great one by Dick Francis.
This time, our Everyman Hero Neil Griffon is abducted and bullied into putting an amateur jockey up on the favorite mount for the big race.
Just covering for his father after a serious car accident, he has no experience running a stable and is quickly in over his head.
Classic Francis at his best, we have the intricacies of a strained father / son relationship, empowered, strong women well ahead of their time, and a great Everyman main character in Neil.
Yes, we have horses, and racing, and insights into the everyday operations of a racing stable.
Dick Francis? The mob? Syphilis? Sign me up for that party! Fantastic as usual. The ending was maybe a bit too tidy, but it was still fantastic fun. All the characters are adorable and interesting, even the bad ones (okay, they aren't so adorable).
My first Dick Francis. I want to ride Archangel.
Until Dick Francis came along, who knew that the world of horse racing could be so exciting? I've read quite a few Dick Francis novels and I can't think of any that were less than 3+ stars. Bonecrack involves two meglomaniac fathers and the sons that have to deal with them. Francis says in the forward that he had a pretty good father, so the two in this novel are not based on his own father. Good to know!
One of the early Francis books,been in my collection a good long while.Enjoyed it a great deal the first time I read it,this time less so.The climax is powerful and shocking.
As I think about all of his books (yes, this review covers all of his books, and yes I've read them all) I think about a moral ethical hero, steeped in intelligence and goodness embroiled in evil machinations within British horse racing society - either directly or indirectly.
The heroes aren't always horse jockies, they can be film producers, or involve heroes engaged in peripheral professions that somehow always touch the horse racing world.But more than that, Francis's heroes are rational human beings.
The hero's thoughts reveal a vulnerability that is touching, while his actions are always based on doing the right thing to achieve justice.
Neil is kidnapped by a dangerous madman who demands, on pain of destroying the stable, that Neil hire his son Alessandro as a jockey… and let him ride their prize stallion in the Kentucky Derby.
One of my favorite things about this book was the way that Alessandro seemed to have stepped out of an entirely different novel, one where the arrogant and damaged young man is the romantic lead, and was forced to interact with Francis’s down-to-earth characters, who either didn’t notice how hot he was or noticed but didn’t let it cloud their judgment.
I think this is my favorite Dick Francis. When Neil takes over his father's racing stables, he finds himself the victim of an insane extortion. I love the way Neil works toward solving a seemingly insoluble problem, while feeling his way into the profession of developing expensive race horses into winners. He could only have reached such heights in his former career, as a doctor to failing businesses, with a remarkable feel for human beings.Read 8 times
I don't think I've ever read a Dick Francis that I didn't like. This one has the usual unflappable and unlikely hero, horses and horse racing that don't dominate the story, and a satisfactory ending. In spite of those similarities I've found each story to be unique and also satisfactory. :)
IDK, his books are just weird, page-turning nonsense and it appeals to me?I keep having to remind myself that if the sport at the heart of Bonecrack were premier league football, the premise of the novel would sorta make sense.
A mobster kidnaps, beats up and threatens José Mourinho or some other football club manager, forcing him to put some rando in the lineup for the next big match...?
Not my favourite Francis, but not a bad one.Oh, and the moral of this story seems to be: (view spoiler)[no bother if your dad's a dickhead, 'cause one day he'll die and everything will be better.
Neil Griffon is abducted and threatened late one night.
But what is demanded of him is highly unusual -- that he make a particular young man a jockey at his father's training stable.
Just a gift from a father to his son, who wants more than anything else in the world to ride a winning race on a particular horse.
[return][return]Griffon has no choice, not when the horses are under threat.
But there are more subtle ways to deal with a blackmailer than direct confrontation...[return][return]An excellent thriller, and a fascinating study of father-son relationships.
This is a 4.5, really an excellent story for the genre. Having a cold father, I found the story line of the two horrible fathers and two damaged sons compelling. I really liked that the main character's girlfriend was full figured and plump and their sweet relationship was a bonus to the story. Francis writes very well and his books are fun.I've read a LOT of Dick Francis (and plan to read many more) and this one and Nerve are two of the best.
A book of good intentions, exploring the father-son dynamic is wrapped around a paper-thin, implausible, and redundant plot. A mystery/suspense book with neither, though many parts are nicely written.
An interesting redemption story of two men with father issues. One who has already come to terms with his cold, dominating father, and a younger man who is still trapped in the dysfunctional dynamic.
I was actually impressed; each of the women he spent any time on had a strong sense of competence and independence which was subtly applauded but mostly just stated as though it was taken for granted, which feels enlightened for a book published in 1971.And sure, the plot wraps up too neatly, and far nicer than real life (and human nature) would normally allow for, but there is some really thoughtful character development that happens, and it's quite nice to get a solid win for this particular good guy.I mostly write "reviews" or critiques for my own sake - to slow myself down and try to absorb some of what I've just experienced.
Since those who are strictly good or bad are rather boring, the inclusion of Alessandro, spoiled but not completely rotten son of a megalomaniac father, adds spice to what could otherwise be just another good guy vs.
Alessandro is obsessed with riding a Derby winner--but not as obsessed as his father, and Neil and Alessandro create a kind of uneasy positive relationship as the story progresses and Alessandro discovers how to get what he wants through hard work and talent rather than threats and coercion.
The final denouement is a horse race with life-or-death consequences, and both characters, Neil and Alessandro, have to reckon with the legacies of their fathers.
Strangely bland, even for an earlier Francis novel, most of the real action takes place in the final quarter.
Why Francis decided to make him an antique dealer-turned-business consultant is anybody's guess.
Francis is already recycling motifs, this early into his career: the loner child whose father never really loved him, who bottles up his feelings without pickling them first.
One of the confrontation scenes with the bad guy is almost a rewrite of a previous novel.
Said bad guy is Italian/Swiss, and his son's English goes from near-pidgin to Oxford-convoluted from one moment to the next.
Raamatu kaanele on kirjutatud "Kriminaalromaan" ning tõtt-öelda ootasin sellelt midagi muud.
Pigem on tegu põnevusromaaniga (meeletult actionit seal siiski ei ole, aga natuke küll).
Kõige enam meenutab "Luumurd" mõnd sellist veidi vanemat Holliwoodi filmi, mida telekast pühapäeva hommikuti näha saab.
Esmalt on mingi dramaatiline sündmus.
Siis hakkavad asjad aina paremaks minema ning vaenlastest (vms) saavad sõbrad.
Üsna lõpus leiab aset mingi pöördeline sündmus, mis pöörab asjad taas halvaks.
Ja lõpus on happy end nagu ikka.
Filmile ebatüüpiliselt puudus armastuslugu, ent olemas olid hobused.
Ma küll kindlalt ei tea, aga oletan, et "Luumurrust" on päriselt ka film tehtud.
Aga on ka paremaid...
This is not a bad book but it was a bit too predictable and far fetched in places. Still syphilis and madness with a couple of dysfunctional fathers set within the racing world was entertaining to read. None of the characters were in any way likeable except the horses! I will probably give another Dick Francis a go as in parts I did enjoy it. Although the monotony of each day the apprentices doing the same thing was a bit dull. The ending was good though albeit a bit tragic for the equine character!
A two day page turner. Always a pleasure. I enjoy learning about the horse racing world.
I really enjoyed this one. Less a mystery than a thriller and with better character development on one of the central characters than you see in Francis’ writing. I wonder what the inspiration was?
Neil Griffon certainly was in a pickle throughout this story.
One of my favorite authors :)Never disappoints!
My least favorite Dick Francis. Flat characters; none of the suspense.
Had to make it on his own as his relationship with his father had been strained.Kidnapper's son Alexandra's want to ride a particular horse in Darby.
In the end to get his son as jockey of the horse he arranges for his two hoods to assassinate the jockey Tommy Holick using an Enfield rifle.
But when he discovers his son has gone out on the training exercise and is on the horse meant for jockey Tommy Holick he goes to the hiding place and starts shooting his own men and the hood with a rifle retaliates and shoots him.
