https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/372853.To_Serve_Them_All_My_Days
preparing his boys for a life of uncertainty and violent change, teaching that the old English values of honesty, courage and a love of justice are still worthwhile even in the age of Hitler and Stalin." I would add, the author and the main character have a true heart for the developing character of young boys - even more remarkable given the isolated living situation of a boarding school.
If you would like a relief from the grisly reality of modern media and books, consider this as a 'good read.' I am savoring the last few pages, not wanting the experience to end.
This is a book that must be reviewed. I mustn't have been reviewing then. I will remedy this asap. I loved this book. Then I bought it after giving away my second hand copy. This is a book to hold onto. One of the kids Headmaster's enjoyed it too, I raved about it. Glad my dad passed it onto me :)
Very rarely do I find a book that captures so much of my mind that I read every word.
This was one of those books!
It embraced a heart for teaching, a passion for history, a draw to love, and a strength through hardship all in a landscape of a prep school in England.
Looking at life between the two wars that both engulfed the world, from the perspective of a small, secluded, and hidden piece of the earth was one of the most interesting perspectives I have been immersed in!
It challenged my mind and opened my heart!
It was an excellent read!
hello allfriend told me to try this bookthought to myselfmy grandparents escaped the slumsof Victorian Londonto live in Canadadon't want to read book about training the English upper classgrabbed hold of mewhen it endedit was as if a small part of the world diedanother books as ships storyship that takes you away to another time and placetook me to another time another placeyours trulymac
I sometimes still wake up in the morning and look forward to reading more about P.J. and Bamfylde. The book could have gone on another thousand pages as far as I'm concerned and I would have been riveted. Very English. A great tutorial on the British Boys' School and how that effects their society.
You could EASILY chop 200 pages off this without affecting the story one iota.IN A NUTSHELL: A shell shock soldier ( WW1) is discharged from a lengthy hospital stay and is encouraged to take a post at a boys boarding school by his neurologist.
His future love interests I didn't care for so much.One character is very into politics and my eyes start glazing over when you mention Tories and liberals, so you can imagine I found these bits hard going.
For anyone in the education field this book would be fascinating.I really loved the stories about the individual boys and their escapades.
The characters seem well portrayed and it sticks quite closely to the book.
The story takes place between two wars, the first and the second--the big ones, as they are often characterized--and follows the career of a veteran of the first who comes to this lonely outpost for healing.
It is a nostalgic book; at times, a very sad book--I read often with tears in my eyes, especially as I neared the end.It is also a thoughtful reflection on education, the healing power of relationships, and the purpose of life.
Sometimes as I wend my way to the end of a book, I slow down; I don't want it to end--not because I'm afraid of how it will end but because I like "living" there and want to stay.
A British boys' boarding school, in the period between the two world wars provides the setting for this lengthy novel about a shell shocked young man who takes on a temporary job as a teacher and ends up spending the next 22 years gradually learning to love everything about his life as a school master, housemaster and eventually the headmaster.
For those of us Anglophiles who loved Hogwarts School of Wizardy, Bamfylde is the next best thing and actually goes a long ways to helping us understand the British residential school system that provides part of the framework for the Harry Potter books.
I really enjoyed this (the subject of a Masterpiece Theatre back in the early 80s) story of an English schoolmaster at a country "public school" from 1918-1940.
Read this last year along with Delderfield's trilogy A Horseman Riding By, now he is one of my favou
The television mini-series is even better, because Andrew Davies is a god of page-to-screen adaptation.
PBS version one of few books that I'd rather re-see than re-readhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/To_Serv...
I simply wallowed in this book almost smelling the lavender polish on the wood of the school.
The battered shellshocked WWI boy/man who arrives is slowly healed by the school and it's Headmaster.
The book takes him through crises and out the other side right through to being able to cope with seeing his own pupils getting involved in WWII and paying the ultimate price.
The book as a whole takes world events and shows how they affected individuals.
The individuals then leave a legacy which is up to the next generation to carry on or disgard.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Adaptation of RF Delderfield's classic drama set between the two world wars.SPLENDID!! I just mooched another book by this author.
This book was first published in England in 1972 and is probably the most well known of R.F.Delderfield's novels.
The novel follows him through the years of his life spent there.
I found this book to be totally absorbing and it gripped me throughout.
The novel has a real emotional poignancy that touched me deeply.
It is a very moving book and a fascinating read!
This is one of the best books I have read in a long time.
On a recent beach trip I decided to revisit "To Serve Them All My Days", one of my very favorite Delderfield novels.
As a history teacher, he's well placed to teach them about the waste of war, but he also brings the past's good lessons alive to them.
Patriotic in a good way, and full of lessons about decency and the true purpose of education, To Serve Them All My Days is a wonderful story that I think still bears relevant truth in our own war weary times.
A beautiful novel set in a boarding school between the World Wars. Lt. David Powlett-Jones arrives in the countryside, suffering shell-shock and looking to find a way back into the land of the living. Along the way, he finds love, friendship, hope, and tragedy. Terrific novel, made into a great BBC miniseries. For the longer review, please go here:http://www.epinions.com/content_12100...
FANTASTIC. Far superior to Mr Chips, It works on many levels - as a teacher, student story, as an anti-war novel, as an insight into an overshadowed period of British History and as a sprawling, epic novel.
DNF. Too much British slang for this California girl.
I read all of this series years ago and loved them; I learned more history from this series than in any classroom and it made more sense too! The changes wrought upon England by WW I were earth-shaking; all of society was forever changed, as were those who were involved in the actual combat and serving at home. Glad to know they're still in print and being read!!

Not long into his visit, he agrees to give it a try, and Delderfield builds his story through more than two decades of P-J's time at Bamfylde.
The character development is first-rate - though the faculty don't change too frequently, the boys certainly do, and Delderfield has a gift for fleshing them out through the briefest of incidents or conversations, allowing the reader to find them again as older-form boys or alumni, with an emotional tug when we read how they've progressed.
As great as the characters themselves are, the relationships forged and how they unfold are the ultimate brilliance here.
I really enjoyed the proper English, I enjoyed the great use of language and the character development...many of the characters just popped out of the page for me, except for one: Mr. Carter.
The story is about a man, David Powlett-Jones, wounded and shell-shocked in WWI, who takes a teaching job in a remote all-boys school in SE England.
The book is LONG, and felt long toward the end, but I still enjoyed it immensely.
It ends as WWII is starting for England.
Great read.
Re-reading this novel always makes me even more sure that teaching is the most undervalued profession in our world.
David Powlett-Jones' story is always a source of renewed faith for me - in more ways than one.
In no other profession, except possibly a religious vocation, is the gift of oneself so important and so rewarding.
Whether we teach in a classroom, at a kitchen table, or in our implementation of the Golden Rule, each of us gives a precious gift to the future.
God bless all teachers - for giving each of us the open door to lifetime learning!
Twenty plus years in the life of a British schoolmaster, from the end of the first World War to the start of the second.
The headmaster, however, sees something in him that makes him hire Davy, who gradually comes to love the school and its students.This is a perfect book for those who love British school stories, but want a more adult take.
It’s full of episodic student drama, family drama, tragedy, adventure, joy, school politics, national politics, and a setting so realistic you feel as if you're there.
What a wonderful, beautiful book.
I was so sad when its 400+ pages were done - they had flown by.
It explores the period spanning from the end of WWI into the beginning of WWII with grace, sensitivity, and a very sympathetic protagonist.
The reader comes to appreciate Bamfylde as much as PJ does.
Near the end of the book, I had a moment when I set it down because the approach the author took to explaining what was happening historically and what the experience of that was actually like gave me a fresh insight into it that was so potent as to be startling.
The first 60 pages were a bit of a grind for me, but the last 534 were wonderful and I will definitely read this author again. This is a saga about a boy's school and a particular teacher that spans about twenty years. I enjoyed the perspective and how the history of the time period that begins in 1914 is woven through the story. This story feels very personal and although it is fictional, it reads as if it were non-fiction. I have ordered the BBC miniseries from my library and am looking forward to watching that.
A school book if ever I read one, and not one bit boring at that.
Delderfield tells the story of the Great War soldier who is discharged with shellshock, and recuperates by teaching in a school on the moors of Devon.
Pupils and teachers are characterised vividly, with drama, tragedy and humour dished out in equal measures.
Time appears to repeat itself when the Second World War arrives - and the Headmaster who served in WW1 is now doing what his predecessor did at that time.
Keeping track of his Old Boys, as they served and / or died in WW2.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book, although it got long towards the end. This is a story about a young man who returns from WWI a shell-shocked soldier, and is placed as an English teacher in a boys' boarding school in the country, as as way to heal. He ends up making this his career. I loved the plot, characters, descriptions of the time and place, etc.It's interesting - I never could get into the author's better known book: God is an Englishman.
My favorite book. Bought it at a book sale for fifty cents, then discovered it was made into a miniseries on Masterpiece theater. I bought that for considerably more than fifty cents, but loved it anyway. There should be some great words of wisdom to impart from those two events, but alas none. I still love the book. I may buy it for my Kindle.
