https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/874923.Love_in_the_Western_World
I found this through the footnotes of C S Lewis' The Four Loves. It is incredible. A great history of the definition of "love" in the West and its quasi-heretical connections. Final punchline: Marriage is the antidote to the modern love of death.
Esso vive della vita stessa di coloro i quali credono che l’amore sia un destino; che piombi sull’uomo impotente e travolto per consumarlo in un puro fuoco; e che sia più forte e più vero della felicità, della società, della morale”.Su questo aspetto de Rougemont è inflessibile: ribadisce più volte la sua antipatia verso la forma di amore chiamata Eros, che secondo lui nasconde sotto le apparenze di vita una spinta verso il caos e la morte.
Ciò che essi amano, è l’amore, è il fatto stesso di amare […] Tristano ama di sentirsi amato, ben più che non ami Isotta la bionda.
At the heart of his ever-relevant inquiry is the inescapable conflict in the West between marriage and passion--the first associated with social and religious responsiblity and the second with anarchic, unappeasable love as celebrated by the troubadours of medieval Provence.
These early poets, according to de Rougemont, spoke the words of an Eros-centered theology, and it was through this "heresy" that a European vocabulary of mysticism flourished and that Western literature took on a new direction.Bringing together historical, religious, philosophical, and cultural dimensions, the author traces the evolution of Western romantic love from its literary beginnings as an awe-inspiring secret to its commercialization in the cinema.
He seeks to restore the myth of love to its original integrity and concludes with a philosophical perspective on modern marriage.
Verrà giorno che gli uomini si guarderanno l'un l'altrofraternamentecon i tuoi occhi, amor mio,si guarderanno con i tuoi occhi.
In this mammoth of a book, Rougemont takes a deep breath and plunges headlong into the ocean, eager to stir the depths of our subconscious and bring to light that which hasn’t ceased tormenting the western culture for whole centuries: the polarity between Eros dressed as passion and Love dressed as Agape.Etymologically speaking, passion derives from the Greek word ”πάσχω” which means ”to suffer”.
On the contrary, he delves into the heart of the matter, bringing to the surface the dark truth that lies at the bottom of perhaps the most enduring and celebrated European myth.Rougemont, with his remarkable insight, maintains the idea that what propels the actions and decisions between the lovers is not the love the one nurtures for the other, but the narcissistic love that each one harbours for one’s own self.
Much of what De Rougemont discusses here should be familiar to readers who have already read Joseph Campbell's Creative Mythology.
However, De Rougemont goes in a significantly different direction in his interpretation of the meaning of the medieval Tristan and Isolde legend.
The surprising thing is how the modern concept of love derives not from something universal in the human being, but from the social realities of the historical moment De Rougemont analyzes.A very impressive and scholarly work.
This book offers one of the richest histories of conventional understandings and formulations of love throughout and across the Western tradition.
full erotic abandon model really does not hold.Following his historical analysis, de Rougemont offers some reflections on the nature of love, of passion, and of marriage which remain highly pertinent to today's climate.
Marriage may be imperfect, but it is certainly an indispensable bond of equality and love far superior to carnal entanglements of supposed ecstasy.Although this book is dated, it is a very rich read, and the greatest irony is that these poignant reflections on restraint and faithfulness come from a Frenchman no less!
Pentru a o demonstra, autorul pleacă de la mitul lui Tristan şi al Isoldei aşa cum apare el în literatura trubadurilor din secolul al XII-lea, mit care ar revela, pe de o parte, că o întreagă literatură s-a născut de pe urma crizei căsătoriei şi pe de altă parte că amorul-pasiune nu este iubirea de celălalt, ci de iubire.
Most difficult book I ever read. I loved what I understood - about half of it, to be honest.
He asks in his initial chapter, “Can we be in such a state of delusion, can we have been so thoroughly ‘mystified’, as really to have forgotten the unhappy aspect of passion, or is it that in our heart of hearts we prefer to what must seemingly fulfil our ideal of a harmonious existence something that afflicts and yet elevates us?” (16) And states later, more dramatically (but truthfully!), “The myth [of romance] operates wherever passion is dreamed of as an ideal instead of being feared like a malignant fever; wherever its fatal character is welcomed, invoked, or imagined as a magnificent and desirable disaster instead of as simply a disaster.” (24) De Rougemont then goes on to contrast this always-deferred suffering love, Eros, with love content with loving the other, Agape – Christian love.
I got this because I have a soft spot for the medieval Provencal poets, This guy starts from an intriguing yet improbably hypothesis about them, and derives from it an explanation of the development of the notion of romantic love from their time until today.
In any event, in an appendix he disavows this extreme interpretation, but leaves the relationship unclear, at least as far as I could puzzle it out (the book was written in 1938, the appendix in 1972).So the troubadours popularized a new attitude towards love, and it was taken up in the Tristan and Isolde stories, mixed with some threads of Celtic legendry.
(p156)La passion n'est nullement cette vie plus riche dont rêvent les adolescents ; elle est, bien au contraire, une sorte d'intensité nue et dénuante, oui vraiment, un amer dénuement, un appauvrissement de la conscience vidée de toute diversité, une obsession de l'imagination concentrée sur une seule image, - et dès lors le monde s'évanouit, "les autres" cessent d'être présents, il n'y a plus ni prochain ni devoirs, ni liens qui tiennent, ni terre ni ciel : on est seul avec tout ce que l'on aime.
Mais le viol, comme la polygamie, révèle que l'homme n'est pas encore en mesure de concevoir la réalité de la personne chez la femme.
Псевдонауковий текст, в якому автор взявся за дуже цікаву тему, по дорозі обісрав інших авторів, які писали на будь-яку дотичну до "дослідження" тему (не постраждав тільки Гейзінґа), напхав цитат без посилань та навіть зазначення авторства, відкинув всі факти в місцях, де сова не натягнулася на глобус, і замість висновків роздав пару непевних порад брачующімся. А потім весь цей цирк переклали і забули віддати редактору на вичитування.
En klassiker och hörnpelare inom västerländsk bildning.
L’amour heureux n’a pas d’histoire.
I'm not sure it's fair to blame the Catharists and Manichaeans for our wish for passion (and therefore our wish for death) - although it doesn't necessarily appear in the Bible (??) I'm sure many Christians have (re)invented passionate religion and passionate love.It's interesting that we same to have the same anxieties about marriage (it's a stabilizing force in society THAT IS TOTALLY IN PERIL!
De Rougement even mentions that women's rights probably hurt marriage.
Ugh, ugh and ugh.The passion = death wish pyschology is very Freudian, and I wonder how contemporary psychologists would handle it.

Un libro que cambia tu idea del amor y del deseo. La pasión como algo más bello que la moral y que por lo tanto queda fuera de ella. La pasión mistificada como algo que todo hombre debe vivir, la pasión se sujeta a la muerte porque quiere exaltar a la vida más allá de su condición finita, el exaltamiento de la vida lleva a su destrucción.
This is a book read long ago, and something recent (maybe bookclub discussions?) made me want to pull it out again. However, I am having my usual trouble making my way through nonfiction. Plus, I need to make it to the end of Anna Karenina in the next four weeks, and that takes precedence in my reading time.
Something read long ago, and read I recall in tandem with Jessie Weston's "From Ritual to Romance". De Rougemont's work has had its critics over the years, and I'm not sure his theories about the origin of Western romantic love in Cathar thought has held up. But it's a book I did love once upon a time, and it's still a delight....
A long, if meandering read, but worth your time if you are interested in the development of the myth of romance in the West. A familiarity with medieval and French literature is helpful, but not necessary, in reading this classic from de Rougemont. Read "Tristan and Iseult" as a prerequisite.
Partant de Tristan et Iseult, de Rougemont déconstruit le mythe de la passion amoureuse en tant qu'exaltation non sans répercussions sur le monde politique. La finalité de l'amour courtois c'est la passion qui est plus présente que jamais au XXe siècle.
Libro illuminante per capire l'origine della nostra sensibilità. Oggi forse datato,ma all'epoca fu molto innovativo. Un saggio che si legge come un romanzo.Interessanti anche la biografia e le posizioni che l'autore ha via via assunto. http://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denis_de...
Want to understand the birthplace of romantic love? Look no further.
Read it in portuguese. It threw a light in my life. It's a must for people who ask too much.
A renewed focus on readings on love. What is it to love and to be loved? This course of study starts here.
Sjajna knjiga! Preporuka za sve a ne samo za nas koji se na neki nacin bavimo izucavanjem knjizevnosti.P.S.Pitam se da li je Ruzmon ozenjen?
Recommended by Dr. Jacobs
read during my junior read abroad in Paris
Grandiose and often coherent conjecture regarding the influence of Catharism on chivalric principle, European poetry, and Western notions of love. Packed with some killer one-liners.
