https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55442.The_Magic_Labyrinth
Read at your own risk!"This fourth book in the classic Riverworld series continues the adventures of Samuel Clemens and Sir Richard Francis Burton as they travel through Farmer's strange and wonderful Riverworld, a place where everyone who ever lived is simultaneously resurrected along a single river valley that stretches over an entire planet.
Famous characters from history abound.Now Burton and Clemens, who have traveled for more than thirty years on two great ships, are about to reach the end of the River.
A coming battle may destroy Burton and Clemens, but even if they survive, how can they penetrate the alien tower of the Ethicals, who created this astonishing world?
Po przeczytaniu ponad 3000 stron sagi, którą rozpocząłem w sposób zupełnie losowy, muszę przyznać że jestem bardzo zaskoczony jak szybko udało mi się przez nie przejść.
Philip Jose Farmer stworzył niezwykle ciekawe uniwersum, w którym wszyscy ludzie, którzy kiedykolwiek żyli, zostali jednocześnie wskrzeszeni na planecie, przez którą ciągnie się kilkumilionowej długości rzeka, a żaden z jej mieszkańców zupełnie nie ma pojęcia jak to się stało i jakie istoty sprawiły, że dostali "kolejną szansę".
I will explain what I mean only in the most vague terms to avoid spoilers.The explanation is predictable because Farmer provided too much of it before the final scene in which the whole truth is revealed.
Even within this story, this side-track, Farmer insists on diverting us from the diversion by providing a 2-page biography of just about every minor character to appear in the novel -- about a page on what they did in the real world, and then another page on what they've been doing on the Riverworld.
Farmer managed to make his Riverworld finale the worst of the four books.
Farmer wasn't making big or insightful points, however, he was looking to make the finale exciting in the same way that book 2 and book 3 were(n't).
Thus we get 300 pages of the same adventures we'd experienced in those two middle volumes.
For them to have worked, however, Farmer would have had to have been building up to and working with these problems and questions over the course of the last three books.
I cared far more about the mysteries of the Riverworld, most of which are relegated to discussion in the final 100 pages of the book.My second complaint is that the exploration of the Tower, the encounters with the aliens and the explanations that go with these things, are far too brief.
Instead, Farmer seems intent on racing to the conclusion rather than letting us savor the unraveling of all of these mysteries.The resolution of the various threads and the answers to the questions about the Riverworld posed earlier are actually moderately satisfying, for what it's worth.
I was a little disappointed in this book.
It was not a great end to the story, among other things.
The whole series could have been at least a book shorter, and it didn't feel necessary.
Also, as my husband said when I was telling him about this book, you have all the famous people who have ever lived to choose from, and this is the story you choose to tell?
There were some interesting metaphysical and philosophical discussions near the end, but it still wasn't great.
The conclusion to the Riverworld trilogy (except that there are number of additional short stories that were published later), this tries to wrap everything up and answer the fundamental questions about what the hell Riverworld was all about.
Though the author has his reasons for dragging things out to show some more about the central characters -- Richard Francis Burton, Samuel Clemens, and Hermann Goering -- I felt like a lot of the second and third books were redundant.
It sort of feels like the conclusion/explanation was contrived just in time to finish the story.

I'm virtually certain I got as far as this volume before I abandoned the series, but I can't remember a thing about it. All I can recall is that we were given the explanation for Riverworld, and I just thought "Huh"? I guess I wasn't in a receptive frame of mind, given that some other people appear to like this book. Sorry.
Here's my re-structuring of this series in a way that I think would work much better:(view spoiler)[Book 1 proceeds mostly as it did in the original, except that Burton and crew are reunited far to the north, maybe 1 million miles away from the tower.
Burton and his crew (which now includes Frigate and Nur) are heading upstream and they run into Sam Clemens and his crew in their riverboat, still pursuing John Lackland (the original events of book 2 and most of book 3, to the extent that they happened, are glossed over).
That’s why the last book gets only 1 star, it’s a poor conclusion to a series that started out so strong.Nearly all the characters with dialog are genuine historical figures.
His character is the backbone of the five-book series, making most of the important discoveries, outwitting or fighting the antagonists etc., which is fitting.But then we also get Mark Twain/Sam Clemens… Clemens is perhaps the second most important protagonist, and one of the book series’ greatest weaknesses.
As with all series I am sad it is over but I plan to save book 5 to a later date.
The main of the book was awesome and kept me guessing and wondering what is going to happen next.
Overall this book, this series so far was an excellent reading experience although a bit dated as it was written in the late 70's.
I said before that I was a new fan of the late Mr. Farmer but this book has solidified that and not the other way around...still a fan with many other novels ahead that I have yet to discover and experience!

OMG we finally get to the end, the goal we've been waiting for!!!1!1!0 Why isn't it more interesting? I think because there's not really a great story here. The end, the Tower, the commend center, whatever it is expected to be, is mostly McGuffin and little substance. So, like the rest of the story after the initial Great Idea book, the ride is pretty good: neither disappointing nor exciting. But I can't help but wish there was more to it. Nonetheless, I'll read through book 5 (just started), because, well, I got this far, didn't I?
Il tono della narrazione si solLeva un po’ rispetto ai due libri precedenti, il tema avventuroso diventa più avvincente. Il mistero della Torre alla sorgente del fiume e dei creatori del mondo fiume si svela quasi del tutto, ma la spiegazione dell'intrigo dell'Etico traditore (che ha portato Burton a risalire il fiume) è alquanto ingarbugliata e convince poco.Non ne parliamo poi delle spiegazioni filosofico-religiose al problema dell'anima in cui ci si perde per tentare di spiegare il mistero delle resurrezioni!
Great series
Goes on a bit in the middle, and the ending is a bit lame, but nevertheless a good read.
Book 4 in the series.
Another good but not great story in the series. The writing style is, per usual, great, but it again feels like Farmer ran out of steam.
B-. Something about these books seems to irritate me...
Well freaking finally. And then my questions were still not answered. Ugh! It's a great concept but PJF is a product of his times in a bad way.
This wraps up the conflicts of the previous books well and is an exciting read. It an interesting take on spiritually and self as well as you learn more about who created the Riverland.
Labyrinth does nothing to undo the major disappointment caused by The Dark Design, which is the last book of the original trilogy (To Your Scattered Bodies Go, followed by The Fabulous Riverboat).
Because, that’s what you did BK (Before Kindle), you waited for publishers to issue the third and final book of ongoing trilogies…which brings me to something I’ve noted lately: nobody likes trilogies anymore.
Don’t you know half the fun of trilogies is waiting for that final book?
Because there was so much time between the second and third books―five years―that I had pretty much forgotten most of the story by the time I found The Dark Design sitting on a book store shelf.
sadicamente poi il nostro decide di far morire diversi personaggi principali, tra cui alcuni dei migliori in assoluto: la tensione del libro ne guadagna, però spiace per un paio di loro.
il problema è che le battaglie sono noiosissime, e così anche i tanti spiegoni che occupano l'ultima parte del libro, in cui si cerca di dare una soluzione ai tanti misteri della vicenda.
però c'è una piccola meraviglia: se tutto il ciclo finisse con l'ultima scena e la frase di frigate sarebbe un finale eccezionale...
The Magic Labyrinth is the fourth of Farmer's five volume Riverworld series, and was originally the final book in the series.
Clemens' quest for the headwaters of the river, to storm the mysterious tower there that may contain the answers to this world's riddles, has been subsumed by his thirst for revenge against King John.
A handful of survivors continue on to complete the quest to the great tower at the end of the river.
(There is a book five, where Farmer revisited the series and tacked on a new ending, but trust me, don't bother, it is much worse than this and not worth your time.)
Of course they have to meet, which means they have to get pretty far up-River, and both sides have to be somewhat balanced, so we have to read about more people first, which means that we have to read about their stories on Earth and what "actually" happened first, and then we have to re-read any events in which they'd been previously involved on the Riverworld ...
Other people may find it a more fitting "end" to the story, but I wanted (view spoiler)[at least some kind of idea about the people still in the Valley, and what might happen next for the people in the Tower.
So called because the planet is one long river that winds and spirals its way around the globe.By now we know that the ethicals built, or engineered, the planet.
The first half of the book, as the Not for Hire is gaining on the Rex Grandissimus, goes into the past of several of the characters, Earthly and Riverworld, to show us how they've gotten to this point.
There are then 80 pages of the battle between Sam and King John.
In the last pages of the book we find out who the ethicals are, and why they created Riverworld.
But everything comes together as the rival riverboats commanded by archenemies Sam Clemens and John Lackland meet for their final confrontation, after which the survivors struggle on to gain entrance to the mysterious tower in the North Sea. The battle and the final leg of the journey are well-written and full of adventure and mystery.
Of the final band that reaches the tower, most are relatively minor characters that I really didn't care about and whose personalities had not been well-developed.In my opinion, the Riverworld series has turned out to be quite a disappointment.

