https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128717.Endurance
I liked this Endurance better than the other Endurance book, just because it answers all of the questions I wondered about when the other book wrapped up pretty fast.
And what about the Ross party, that was supposed to meet up with Shackleton on the other side of Antarctica?
It could blow as hard as it liked up there--now.
There was indeed one curious thing about our crossing of South Georgia, a thing that has given me much food for thought, and which I have never been able to explain.
Moreover, this impression was shared by both Shackleton and Crean." (pg 164)
I'm not always able to finish the non-fiction that I pick up, no matter how "worthy" the book or "fascinating" the topic, so I approach with trepidation.
(I bet someone already has.)The other thing (probably another facet of the paper topic above!) is Worsley's devotion to Shackleton.
It would be interesting to read an account less focused on Shackleton and more on the entire crew.
I found the last quarter of the book a big yawn.
It deals with Worsley's life after the polar expedition and it seems like even he's not that interested since he's not with Shackleton.
That rescue is quite a story in an of itself, and basically is a testament to the generosity of various South American governments at the height of the First World War when the British Admiralty couldn't give two craps for bailing out a bunch of stranded polar explorers when five of nine Commonwealth soldiers were casualties in places like Passchendale and Jutland.
Worsley and Shackleton manage to rescue the Endurance party and then learn that the Ross Sea Party aboard the Aurora has met a similar fate.
Loved this! I have always been fascinated by Ernest Shackleton, especially since he lived for a stint in the house I lived in in London. SO interesting.
Fantastic. I cannot recommend this book highly enough. I wish I'd read it 10 years ago... hell, 20 years ago even, just to give single-digits me something to think about. Incredible details, charming vignettes, and most of all a sense of camaraderie and respect for one's peers that I feel is just as worth reading about as all the adventure. The end broke my heart, but in a way where I know I'll never forget how reading this book made me feel.
A good supplement to the Lansing book. He adds more details regarding the environment and animals as well as recounting Shackleton’s death.
Excellent true adventure of Antartic exploration in the early 1900's.
Told in the words of the Endurance's captain this is a tale one won't soon forget. Filled with interesting little details - sometimes humorous - New Zealander Frank Worsley narrates the story of the famous Imperial Trans-Antarctic Expedition. I found this book a great source in researching the Endurance Expedition. Reading contemporary works regarding historical events is good, no doubt about that, but to read a book by someone who was there, who experienced everything firsthand and was a witness to the momentous events is just downright fascinating. And now I must read Ernest Shackleton's account!
I listened to Endurance on audiobook on my Mom’s recommendation.
The narrator was great.
And the story was astounding.
Additionally, she claimed that Captain Shackleton was “one of the great and imperfect leaders in History.” Listening with that in mind, the story of the Endurance and its crew did not disappoint.
Captured by the ship’s navigator, Wolsey, in his diary, the reader get’s an intimate look at the day-to-day experience of surviving in the Antarctica from 1914-1916.
The details are masterfully woven together to tell a seamless and compelling tail.
Send me recommendations of people’s stories I can learn from.
It push back the idea how far can we go. What a man can endure.
One of the best books I’ve ever read.
An amazing story of leadership!!
Sir Earnest Shackleton was a man who had high goals but would never take unnecessary risk of putting his men in danger just to accomplish his goals of exploration.
He was loved by all his men, he had the respect of kings and the lowliest sailor, and he always took the brunt of the hardship on himself.
A testament to his ability and care was that he never lost a man while he was in command.
This was an amazing story, but the writing was a bit clunky for me.
It was written by the actual captain of the ship back in the 30's, so I didn't expect it to be the best writing ever, which is why I'm giving it 4 stars.
I also loved that they seemed to keep great attitudes despite being basically wet and cold for two years.
I'm glad I read this, it was something I knew absolutely nothing about.
I see there are a few other great polar exploration books that I need to read now.
One of the very best adventure stories of all time.
I like sea stories and hate ice and snow.
I had mixed feelings about reading someone's Antarctica story.
"It was cold, it was wet, the snow was white." But this is also a story about being stranded, having to build shelters and wait weeks for a rescue in the days before air travel or two way radio.
Above all, its a story about the men who went for help, traveling hundreds of miles in an open boat.
Then they had to find a ship to make the return trip, locate the camp they left behind, and hope at least some of their friends were still alive.
easy to read and quickly paced. The drama of the adventure is somewhat curtailed by Worsley's tone of voice, but on the other hand, it sort of feels like we've sat down next to him at some ex-pat bar and he's telling us the story in person. The downplaying of the hardships just make it all the more amazing and very much endearing. Loved this book, even after the narrative turned from the initial expedition into tales of the war, past trips, and Shackleton's final voyage.
My favourite account of the Endurance expedition - the photos contained within this book are amazing - written by Shackleton's captain. His navigational abilities are amazing, especially as you read about the harrowing journey in a lifeboat from Elephant Island to South Georgia.
A book I've reread many times. I remember a certain administrator who compared herself to Shackleton as she laid off a bunch of people. To which I wanted to yell, "Um, Shackleton didn't throw anyone off the boat."Anyhow, great adventure and a very lesson in endurance.
I have read almost every book written on the Endurance expedition, and quite a number of books about polar exploration. This is my favorite one.
Read this a couple years back and enjoyed it. So amazing what these men endured. Makes me cold just thinking about it!
Now, I think it was the perfect way to tell the story.Example without spoilers: you hear about the Herculean efforts that happen to save a few particular people, you go on an emotional roller coaster, then when it’s all over he basically says “that was great...
it’s really a shame the guy we spent so much effort to save died 2 years later when a U boat sank his ship.” It tells you a lot about the world at the time and gives a really interesting perspective on World War I because the sailors on the Endurance left for the Antarctic right as the war was beginning Aside from that, this book should be considered a MUST read for anyone who has a manager or is a manager.
The book, Endurance, by Alfred Lansing, tells the true, incredible, and improbable story of Ernest Shackleton and his crew and their traumatizing experience at sea. It is the story of them abandoning their ship which was being compressed by the deadly grips of the Antarctic ice, only to realize that the ice beneath them began to break apart, and they were forced into three lifeboats. Eventually, Captain Shackleton, and a few of his men, bravely took one of the lifeboats across extremely harsh c
The book, Endurance, by Alfred Lansing, tells the true, incredible, and improbable story of Ernest Shackleton and his crew and their traumatizing experience at sea.
It is the story of them abandoning their ship which was being compressed by the deadly grips of the Antarctic ice, only to realize that the ice beneath them began to break apart, and they were forced into three lifeboats.
But when the men left the boat, and attempted to survive on ice, the story lacked intensity and I found myself flipping pages.
Overall, it is an incredible true story of bravery, commitment, endurance against all odds.
I was presented this book by my father a few years after my bachelor's graduation - "a perfect encapsulation of what it means to be a manager." What's great about this book is that it works on multiple levels - an interesting story of colonial exploration gone wrong; a re-imagining of the romantic era through a post-modernist lens of pivot and reinvention; an approach to understanding creative crisis; and a beautiful parable for leadership when the ship has already gone down.It works on all these levels, and even more miraculous to have a wealth of media to accompany the tale, to see how extreme conditions and fear of death affected these men.
I picked this book after reading Lansing’s Endurance, because I really wanted to get Worsley’s account of the events.
Worsley focused a lot more on nature and scenery, and as a biologist I appreciated his attention to details of fauna and flora of the Antarctic, and his fascination with it is quite fascinating in itself.
Also, his fondness of Shackleton, whilst endearing most of the time, was getting a little bit too much as I kept reading on.But all in all, a great read and perfect companion to Lansing’s book.
My friend Pete recommended this first person account of the ship Endurance which was abandoned after being stuck in ice in the Antarctic in 1916.
The leadership of Sir Ernest Shackleton is credited with returning all the men of the expedition home safely after months of some of the most grueling conditions imaginable on the most remote area on Earth.
Although the many descriptions of the nautical aspects of the journey weigh down the narrative, it's a fascinating true story of the exploration of the last frontier on our planet.
Amazing book. I typically don't gravitate to these types of stories and especially since I don't know much about sailing. However, I was captivated from the start and couldn't put it down. Shackleton is a leader that everyone should read about and his story should be known to all. Great for outdoor enthusiasts, those interested in leadership, easy reads, or history.
I love non-fiction stories, especially those that are more exciting than made up stuff ever could be. I can't think of a better demonstration of the good old British stiff upper lip. This was surely a trial to test the grit and endurance of these men. They passed the test with flying colors.
great adventure story. A page-turner
Wow what an exciting adventure. Shackleton was an amazing explorer and dude to get all his guys through that ordeal.
Felt like I was trudging through the Antarctic with the crew.
