https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/397539.Christmas_Holiday
(He could have come through my daughter's elitist high school.) He knows all the right things to say about all the right pictures and can play the best music in the proper fashion and his dad (whose family came up from servants to a peerage) has sent him to Paris for a finishing touch to his education.
Charley meets Lydia (whose family post-Russian Revolution has taken the opposite trajectory) in a brothel and they proceed to the climax at the Louvre.
Little things in the book provoke connections - there is a written scene that I swear is the precursor of Hitchcock's visual setting of Rear Window.
A young man from a cultured, middle-class English family travels to Paris to spend Christmas holiday with some desperate people.
It just sort of happens.
Many other things happen too.
The protagonist is at first amused by his friend's extreme philosophy and then repulsed.This is a coming-of-age tale really.
The young protagonist's warm, happy heart is introduced to the heartbreak of the world.
It's tough to see the young man's eyes open in such a way, but Maugham is a magician with his writing.
There's also a really compelling murder mystery within the book.
He could have written mysteries easily.
The only thing that is Merry is that it is a Christmas time frame read which has Christmas Eve and Day during the holiday and a visit to a Christmas mass in Paris.
This is a bildungsroman story which is about a young Englishman who comes home changed after his solitary visit to Paris.
This has a more political and life meaning than anything else but it is a really engaging story which this being my first Maugham and looking forward to reading him again.
Charley goes to a brothel in Paris and meets someone that changes how he sees life.
Published on the eve of W2, Maugham presents a situation: a conventional young man, Charley, age 23, has a week's holiday in Paris and his unexpected experiences blitz his mind.
Back home he can't even talk about Paris, you see, "the bottom had fallen out of his world." Last line.
Sounds very vin ordinaire  to me.MOM was clearly pecking out propaganda and doing a parody of himself at the same time.
However, there's a keen line worth quoting: "I can't imagine anything more heart-rending than to love with all your soul someone that you know is worthless." MOM was thinking of Gerald Haxton.
The beginning is a rapid summary of Charley's respectable, well-off, bourgeois English family.
With all this settled Charley at 23 is off to a good start.
I will say this, without giving too much of a spoiler, Charley's world opens up on this trip to Paris.
He meets Russian "Princess Olga", aka Lydia.
Between the wars, when this book is set, there were many Russian immigrants.
Second to Charley, this book is about Lydia and these Russian immigrants living in Paris.
She has so much to teach Charley about art, music, love and life.
A clever, readable and entertaining book.
W Somerset Maugham uses the contrasting personalities of Charley and Simon to highlight some of the profound and disturbing changes taking place in mainland Europe during the late 1930s (when he wrote the story).
W Somerset Maugham was remarkably prescient about the horrors and inhumanity that was about to unfold.
This is only my second book by W Somerset Maugham.
Both share the same qualities: beguiling, well written, insightful, intriguing, informative, entertaining, and quietly profound.
Моъм си е Моъм - гениален разказвач от и до дъното на душата си. Много харесвам такива книги - история, рамкирана от друга история. Кара те да се замислиш за смисъла на почти всичко, което правим в живота си, а също и за липсата на такъв. Заслужава си.
Има силна психология, тежки думи, но на място и всичко това оставя усещането, че не си си губил времето с тази книга, а напротив - научил си и си разбрал още малко за живота, изкуството и хората.
Такива книги харесвам - в които има много и силни неща, на малко страници.Финалът леко осветлява за какво иде реч и сякаш обобщава: 
"Патси го беше попитала дали е имал приключения в Париж и той съвсем искрено й бе отговорил, че не.
Накратко: ако на някой му се чете лека и романтична книжка за Коледа в Париж, да не се захваща с тази.
23?) first coming to realize that people (and the world) are more complex than he had thought whilst on his first Christmas holiday apart from his family.Although Charlie is the "main character", much of the book is taken up with the story of Lydia -- a young Russian woman he meets through his friend Simon.
Both Lydia and Simon think and live so differently from Charlie's family, he begins to awaken to the fact that he has only experienced a small part of the world.I found some of Simon's philosophy upsetting (as I assume Maugham meant it to be) and surprisingly relevant to today's world -- Simon would understand the people who shot that school in Pakistan the other day; I don't.
It's nothing like Hallmark Christmas stories.
Когато се прибира у дома, при своето семейство, където всичко е приповдигнато, безгрижно, порядъчно, повърхностно и лишено от смисъл, той осъзнава, че вече нищо няма да е същото.Тук всеки един от героите е краен – Саймън в маниакалния си аскетизъм, Лидия в страданието си, Чарли в щастието си.
Тази Коледа в Париж за тях се оказва различна, и най-вече за Лидия и Чарли, които сякаш като подаръци си разменят щастие срещу нещастие.
И разбрах, че въпреки всички ужаси, нещастия и жестокости на света винаги има нещо, което ти помага да ги преживееш, нещо, което е по-велико и по-важно от всичко това – човешкият дух и красота, която той създава”Из „Една Коледа в Париж” – У.
Много ми хареса книгата.
Предполагам, че за голяма част от хората проблем ще бъдат и липсата на действие (почти нищо не се случва на практика), и твърде философските разговори между Саймън и Чарли (иска се специфична нагласа и да си на тази вълна, в това настроение, за да те грабнат), и твърде натурално руският образ на Лидия (с меланхолията и лекото безнадеждно чувство, което някак естествено съпътства руснаците) - откровено неразбираем за голяма част от хората....Но за мен книгата се оказа много силна.
Моъм е в зряла възраст, когато я пише и в нея според мен се съдържа квинтесенцията на проникновенията му.
Чарли заминава да изкара Коледните празници в Париж и още първата вечер с приятеля му Саймън отиват в публичен дом, където попада на рускинята Лидия.
Целият си престой Чарли прекарва с Лидия, но не по начина, който човек очаква.
Тогава реших, че това е чисто криминална история - все пак с големи подробности е описан животът на Лидия с Робер, който от дребни измами се превръща в убиец, описано е цялото разследване, всички детайли по делото до неговата присъда.
И все пак това не е и криминален роман.
Maugham was clearly still finding his style in this early book, but it is nonetheless a very enjoyable read.
The story is so rich that it is hard to remember that the entire book only covers about a week: Charley's one-week holiday in Paris.
Good, serious travel always changes a person's perspective and rarely allows one to blindly return to the life he or she previously believed to be complete.
Charley intended to take a light holiday, but instead traveled further than he ever knew was possible.
This is good - easy to read, with well thought out characters, except that I would have liked the protagonist to enjoy his holiday in Paris, seeing the sights, etc. a little longer before the serious stuff started.
Qui Maugham, dal suo consueto terreno di indagine delle relazioni uomo-donna da cui pur sempre parte e che sempre al centro mette, si avventura a sondare due grandi temi del novecento.
Quello del superuomo e quello del potere deviante che sulla mente dell’uomo hanno avuto le correnti culturali dominanti nella prima metà del secolo scorso.Tre uomini esemplari di tre tendenze diverse.
Al centro, a catalizzare e subire reazioni, una poveretta, chiamata a esemplificare un’altra figura che nel novecento è stata suo malgrado al centro della scena: quella della vittima.L’esaltazione del Male e insieme la sua banalizzazione che hanno dominato un’epoca vengono fuori molto bene dal gioco che si svolge in questo triangolo.
Qui in quelle della prima metà del secolo, quelle vocate al Male, appunto.
Christmas Holiday tells the story of Charley Mason, a comfortably-born 24-year old, who spends a week-long holiday in Paris.
First there’s Charley, then Charley’s cynical friend Simon, then the Russian woman he meets through Simon, Lydia, and finally Lydia’s imprisoned husband Robert Berger, who we never meet but know a fair amount about.
Charley, like Maugham is comfortably born, both have spent time in Paris, and both were encouraged into a profession that did not suit them.
< 1400 Middle English < Latin corpus, body.frowsy	adj.
a decorative cornice ofvalance at the head of a winddow or doorway, used to cover the curtain hangers.marcel	v.
This is a short novel about time spent between a man who's life will go well and a woman who's life will not. The last sentence is the best last sentence I've ever read.
Unexpectedly drew me in. Loved it.
The first thirty pages are a joy to read: Maugham paints the portrait of a well established art-loving family: the Masons.
Maugham keeps adding more and more details to the crime story, as a reader you start asking yourself the question: is this becoming some kind of thriller?I get the general idea that Maugham wants to develop the story of the 'real' Paris: not only the place where you can visit the paintings of Dégas, Manet and Fragonard but also the place of petty theft and more serious crime.
Knows a thing or two about the paintings, but once outside the museum he's totally lost.
A young man from an artsy, comfortably middle class English family spends his Christmas holidays in Paris, seeing another side of life and art. Somehow this story didn’t quite come off as a whole for me, perhaps because it’s difficult to make a nice character who doesn’t come/across as bland. But Maugham is a skilled novelist, and he does some clever framing here, so the different stories fit neatly together like a set of nested Russian dolls.
De cuando creces y se rompe la burbuja de cristal cuidadosamente mantenida por los padres. Sigue siendo actual.
A charming, bitter-sweet story about growing up
I am not hoping to have quite the wake up call that Charley gets in Paris, but it is nice to remind oneself at times (or more importantly, remind the children) of just how comfortable our lives are and appreciate the benefits of upper middle class status.The story here is not really a story at all; it is a character piece in which Charley is set up to learn the lesson of his own privilege.
Written just before the outbreak of World War II, this story warns the British middle class about the hazards of being compacent and naïve in a dangerous world. The story is simple: a young Cambridge-educated Englishman, Charles, is rewarded for entering the family business (initially he had wanted to be a painter) with a holiday trip to Paris “to see some pictures.” There he is met by a lifelong friend Simon, now a journalist, who has become a fanatic who is preparing himself through rigorous
The story is simple: a young Cambridge-educated Englishman, Charles, is rewarded for entering the family business (initially he had wanted to be a painter) with a holiday trip to Paris “to see some pictures.” There he is met by a lifelong friend Simon, now a journalist, who has become a fanatic who is preparing himself through rigorous asceticism and self-discipline for a high post in the communist or fascist government that will surely, sooner or later, topple the democratic government of England.
Among all his works, Christmas Holiday published in 1939 counts as Maugham's most political novel.
A White Russian, she works for a dressmaker for a while but when she is introduced in the book she has become a prostitute called Princess Olga (because the idea of going to bed with a Russian queen is appealing to men) .
The novel however moves by way of Charley Mason, the 24 year old male protagonist of the novel who has arrived to Paris on a short Christmas holiday.
He brings together Charley and Lydia, and thus begins the story.The book works on parallel narratives from here.
A young man goes to Paris for a week of "freedom" before settling down to a career.
Charley comes from an idealic family and a solid, stable financial background.
(so perfect that the first bit of the book becomes rather slow reading) In Paris he meets with an old school friend and is introduced to a woman who is the wife of a convicted murderer.
Over the week, he learns about lifestyles and life circumstances that were previously invisible to him.
He lulls with the idealic setting/family and then slowly hits the reader with depth and then more depth.
The characters in the story -- Charley Mason: 24-year old comfortably born Englishman goes to Paris for a week.
Robert Berger: Imprisoned husband of Lydia, drug dealer, unscrupulous, deceitful and manipulative.
Unworthy of love, but loved by Lydia all the same.I read that the book has an autobiographical influence with Maugham representing himself in Charley.
Charley, like Maugham is comfortably born, both have spent time in Paris, and both were encouraged into a profession that did not suit them.
In Maugham's case is was medicine, in Charley's case it was accounting.
The main character Charley is sensitive kind-hearted and quitessentially english (this is the first time i've typed this word).
He travels to Paris to experience art, and while there, art is revealed to him in a way he's never seen.
Individuality, Painting, Music, Society, and Legacy are the types of art that france prominently shows Charley.
He comes from a family that enjoys art but dosen't experience it.
And in the end, after a short five day trip, Charley comes back to his english house in an english town with wisdom of friendship and love.
So I happened to read this during the Christmas season, but don't think for a minute this is a Christmas-related read.
Nope, in fact it might strip all your benevolent Christmas spirit away, as this is the story of coming-of-age.
Well, a twenty-something coming-of-age.
Sheltered, good-natured upper-middle class British boy meets the real world on his first solo trip to Paris.
He is introduced to poverty, prostitution, murder, ex-cons, fascists, communists, etc.
The nature of friendship is redefined, and an appreciation for art is seen through new eyes.
In fact, the handful of pages describing how different classes appreciate beauty and artistic skill are dazzling.
