https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/534647.The_Portable_Beat_Reader
Not a book you need to plow through in its entirety, but reassuring to have on the shelf, to dip into now and again to check one's cynicism, recalibrate the moral compass.
However naive the Beats' idealism sometimes seems, and however unfortunately susceptible to caricature they've become in the popular imagination, they remain an essential component of American literature and culture.
Whether their ethos is really livable, possible, or even desirable is beside the point: they continue to present a challenge to the imagination and the status quo and offer a refreshingly popular model of poetics.Again, no need to sit down and read the whole thing.
I brought it with me to New York in 1994 to The Beat Writers' Conference @ NYU. I was still leaking breast milk. I touched knees with Allen Ginsberg while he rambled on and signed his name next to 'America'.Fuck the Government. I am a romantic like that.
I read this book when I was 16, and by 17, I was off on an adventure that lasted until I was 35. I still, to this day, long for freedom and for the open road. Of a childish life of multiple romances and endless celebration from town to town, countryside to countryside. Thank you Ginsberg. Thank you Kerouac. Thank you Thank you, William S. Burroughs. Xoxo
Boo fucking hoo.
Marking this as read because half is more than enough.
Beyond the obvious "beats" aspect of rap & hip hop culture there seems to me verisimilar root parallels to Beat culture (there are some rather marked dissimilarities too - Beats are universally pacifists while Rap often glorifies violence) - that street level make it personal freedom to create and "represent" the everyman/woman experience of authenticity - Punk too.
It's predominately oral/in-yer-face realities laced w/beats blown or laid down electronic to accompany lyrical rhyme/assonance of street slang cool.
Poets, drug addicts, criminals, alcoholics, hedonists, ne'er-do-wells, agitators, college dropouts, social revolutionaries; the Beats were the voice of the Lost Generation born (mostly) between two world wars, looking for fresh artistic outlets and ideas away from those approved by contemporary academe. They found them.
A beautiful, wide swath of Beat goodness. C'mon y'all, they only changed the world.
there is nothing wrong with this book. it is comprehensive and compiled well. i should just remember that compilations of authors aren't my cup of tea. in theory they are a great idea. but in practice it just isn't enough to hold my attention for very long. just as i start to read something i truly enjoy, it ends and then starts something i don't like. but, it did give me some leads into who of The Beats i would like to read next.
3.4 I liked most of the poets featured & added many great works to my TBR. The Beat Generation marked their presence with their difference into our great literary canon.
What I really learned from The Portable Beat Reader is that I hate excerpts.
She guides you through all the sections of the Beats Generation: Kerouac's group in New York, the San Francisco Poets, and the other groups that were inspired by the work these groups produced.
Some of these writers (Kerouac, Ginsberg, Synder) I had heard of before, but there were several new names to me.
I enjoyed the Portable Beat Reader more as a reference book than as a reader.
Reading all the way through this book (like I did) is completely unnecessary.
Recommended for anyone deeply interested in the Beat generation.
This collection might not be the best source for answers to the questions, such as “What is Beat?”, and “Who were the Beats?”, as most of the offerings are excerpts from novels and poems.
Did this collection help me understand the “Beat Movement” better?
The elemental misogyny of the Beats also oozes through these pages.
I also was taken by how much of the Beat Movement was a poetry movement.
Literary pedigree seemed more an adornment for the Beats than actual inspiration.
Even the Square had an important place in a Beat world.
You get a smattering of what these men and women wrote, but clearly not the whole thing.
I get the themes of the early "founders" of young men who were trying to find some semblance of meaning and life in the post-war America.
The literature covers themes such as drug use, homosexuality, abortion, crime, drinking...so clearly not something that would be studied a lot in a conservative setting (granted, this is not that much different than literature from any other era).
If you are taking a literature class surveying Beat Literature, this is for you...otherwise, better off sticking to the main texts.
A really nice sampling of “beat” literature!
Sort of like a greatest hits compilation!
Parts 1-3 were full of writings that I love, and that were wonderful to revisit!
I especially enjoyed reading the "Joan Anderson" piece!
The writings in it gave me the feeling of the people on the periphery of the Beats - the children, lovers, spouses, etc.!
I really glorify and romanticize many of the Beat authors and literature, and this section grounded me a bit, showing some of the real consequences of that lifestyle and movement.
Strong stuff.
And strong book!
The sea darkensthe voices of the wild ducksare faintly white
you can't have a Beat reader, have a "San Francisco Renaissance" section and not have Kenneth Patchen =]
Question: i just read about a reading list that Ginsberg provided Cassady to further his writing. Has anyone ever seen such a thing?
It took me a long time to get through this but it was an excellent review of the many beat poets and how they were all connected. I enjoyed their later works more than their early works because they seemed more experienced and wise about life. Maybe it's because I'm old now too. I gave it only 3 stars because beat composition is not my favorite - not because the book itself wasn't well done. The author did an excellent job of reviewing each writer - their history, works, etc - before each section.
Useful for historical purposes.
*4.37
Peace's Red Riding quarter jumps forward three years, this time following the screwed up lives of half-decent police officer Bob Fraser, and burned out journalist Jack Whitehead.
Both are dangerously obsessed with Chapeltown prostitutes, and are sucked into an investigation into the Yorkshire Ripper's slaughter of these women.
Both men are dangerously on the edge, and the plot follows the hollow, desperate plummet of their lives as events overwhelm them, and the extent of the corruption of West Yorkshire police force becomes clearer.
Like 1974, this is brutal, compelling stuff, but not for the faint of heart, nor those enamoured with happy endings
And yet, I picked it up to fill in some gaps in my historical knowledge of the movements of that period and some history of the city I live in (San Francisco), and influences to my social circles and lifestyle.
I appreciate this anthology because Ann Charters does a great job of positioning the works, the sentiments and feelings in relation to history.
While I may have been predisposed to liking Beat writing because of it's influence to my life and culture, I very much believe Ann Charter's book has given me much deeper appreciation and stronger liking for the works I've read in this anthology so far.
However, having published on Kerouac, I know feel better having more Beat under my belt.
I think I enjoyed the three essays on the Beats by Mailer, Watts, and Holmes at the end of the book the most.And though the Beats do annoy me, mostly because I'm not particularly interested in reading about drug trips and the like, a show I've started watching has given me perspective that makes me better appreciate the social forces they were up against.
It makes the Beats feel like a real breath of fresh air.
I read several selections at the time, largely from authors or poets I already had interested in, and then this book sat on my shelf for a number of years.
The introductions preceding each section sets the stage and offer interesting bits of history to accompany your reading.
What I found most interesting were the autobiographical works by the wives of the writers written later in their lives, which is included in the last section.
That part in particular is worth a read, especially if you feel you've already experienced all you need to concerning Beat writers.
I must admit, that there was a good portion of this book that I just skimmed.
While I didn't read a portion of this book, I'm still giving it four stars.
This is a well rounded sampling of beat poetry and it gives you the good and the bad.
Even the bad poetry was a learning experience and made you think outside the box of your preconceived notions about the Beats.
This book will easily help you find who your favorite poet of that generation is, though.Overall, worth the read
If you live to consume modern Art, to live the poetry, if you have been compelled to write nonstop for three days, if your awareness of how close the bomb is to us now and you know Dr. Stranglove is near, if you read Walt Whitman and felt as if you were walking with him, chanting down the clouds to whisk you away, if you ever got in the car and drove 2000 miles just to a particular tree then you are perfect for The Portable Beat Reader.
Love being alive and write every second of it.
This is Beat.

now THAT was a long read at just over 600 pages.
i never was much of a beat fan, but as either as a joke or just because she heard me say the word "beat", a friend of mine gave this to me to stave off boredom.
it KINDA helped.
i don't dig kerouac and burroughs so much.
neal cassady was kinda ok.
it does a good job at expanding from the majors and it did have an excerpt from my favorite poet, charles bukowski, on how he knew cassady.
good luck if you give it a try.
I'm getting ready to see the movie, "Howl," so I read the poem this morning, along with "A Supermarket in California." Is Ginsburg the 20th Century Walt Whitman?
Certainly, I think he wanted to be something like that.
Howl is very trippy!
I was moved by the language, but I am not conversant with all the personal references.
It seems that one needs to know something about the Beat circle in order to fully understand this poem.
I think "Howl" might be the short version of Kerouac's "On the Road" (which I never got very far into, but keep thinking I should read in full).
From New York to San Francisco, this book is essential for anyone looking to further delve into the stories behind the authors of the beatnik era. A great reference point for anyone reading Kerouac, as character analysis is provided (a great in between book before beginning On the Road or Dharma Bums for your second or third time). Ann Charters gives a colourful portrayal of Kerouac, Ginsberg, Burroughs and Cassady, as well as the not so famous beats of the time, in her introduction to each of the writers. This book can also be read spontaneously and in fragments.
