https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37847.The_Long_Hard_Road_Out_of_Hell

Over the years, Manson has said some intelligent things, and every now and then I think he's probably a pretty cool guy.But, whenever I start thinking that, I flashback to the scene in this book where the whole band is gangbanging a deaf groupie who is covered in lunch meat--No, really.
Lunch meat.--while screaming insults at her.
If you're going to shag a lunch-meat covered groupie while insulting her, have the balls to do it to a girl who can HEAR you.
Dude, doing weird shit to groupies was already done by the Go-Go's.
I decided to dive into this book because, while I never really liked Marilyn Manson's music or his band's style, I have always thought he is an intelligent person and I have always taken a look when he has appeared on talk shows.
As he becomes cooler, however, the story improves and so does the writing.The parts about drugs were honest and I love that Marilyn Manson, contrary to most conceptions of Satanists, is an atheist.
The downfall of this book was that it contained too many previously written entries that I hardly cared for, including stories he’d written as a child and articles written about him.
this book was epic.every single part of it.marilyn manson is definitely the most interesting character that has ever existed on the face of this green planet.this book was stocked full of the crazy things he's experienced and done throughout his life. it was amazing.but this book is not for the people who are weak of heart or weak to their stomach. there's plenty of sad and heart sinking moments but also grotesque, wacky parts that could scar the most fragile of minds.<3 i loved it. best book ever.
Yawn.I read this merely out of curiosity (a morbid one at that) and was probably most surprised by the fact that I was surprised at how tedious I found it. The Long Dull Road Out of Hell is a more precise title.I don't know what I really expected to find behind Manson's character, but it turns out that... no, I won't spoil it for you. It's unlikely that you care.
This was probably one of the most self-absorbed pieces of crap I have ever read by a musician. And I read this the year it came out, after we met him and my friends swoon over him. I disliked it then, when most would have listened to this BS. I know you're smart MM, but you're stupid with women and sold-out after that first album...which wasn't even that good! This guy is NOT goth and his stupid religion is one of the major reasons Christianity still has power. Shithead.
This book was banned from my home for about ten years...I picked it up mostly to remember a time I held dear and to remember the icon that was before all the bullshit self-indulgency.It's built like a fan book of sorts, with candid and professional photos, interviews, early writings of Brian Warner sprinkled in and out of his personal narrative.
I didn't treat as much of an insight into the man as opposed to the being he created.His style of writing doesn't flow, but I apreciate his voice.
I found myself laughing at his cynical quips and antics.It made me yearn for 1997...I was too young to really apreciate it and now that time is long gone.
At least in the beginning when this book came out that was the show, but his message is what mattered.I have met him and had an interesting and amusing conversation with him back when this book came out, and believe it or not he is very shy.What Marilyn Manson is all about is challenging us to look at what is happening around us, question authority, shake things up, etc.
Things we should do w/o the need of an artist/rock star to tell us to do.
He is not just Marilyn Manson the rock star like Alice Cooper or KISS are shock-rockers.
I was constantly subjected to his CDs and creepy videos and even had to deal when the goth boy started wearing smudged eyeliner and dying his hair black.Of course, he bought this book the day it came out and since I had a bit of a morbid interest in the guy my boyfriend fell in love with, I gave it a read.The two things I got from this book: 1.
2. Brian Warner is a total dick.He has the potential to be a pretty cool guy, but somewhere along the way he sold out.
really interesting portrait of a dysfunctional youth growing up to become America's most hated rock n roll star ...
not only a fun book if you are fan of Manson or rock n roll in general ..
the man, or more so, the character of Marilyn Manson is less of an idea, but an accumalation of events, traumas, and incredibly evil encounters.
My only complaint was this book was written at the end of Marilyn Manson's "Anti Christ Superstar" phase, and some of his most interesting work/stories actually came after ..
from the gender bending work of "Mechanical Animals" that some how married cocaine, aliens, and man boobs ...
Could almost be classified as philosophy in the way Manson puts forward his ideas.
Christianity's war against the devil has always been a fight against man's most natural instincts - for sex, for violence, for self-gratification - and a denial of man's membership in the animal kingdom."Although not entirely about religion, the book does cover a lot of ground in that area.
Seeing it from Manson's perspective, on top of what we see in the media, even today, it's not hard to work out who the real evil doers are.

I have a strange fascination with this man who is full of contradictions.
I'm abhorred by some of his imagery, but I'm amazed with his thoughtfulness and eloquence when explaining their meaning.
He's surprisingly compassionate.But one thing is for sure.
He does well transitioning from articles to books, and he has a way of getting below the surface.
He balances things well and if he presents his reader with something especially intense, he provides some room to recover.This is a book about Marilyn Manson's early life and career.
Manson also uses religious imagery in his performances, twisting it in ways that can offend.
I loved this book.I love Marilyn Manson in general.He is very intricate and the people who don't und
But during my first year of high school the older kids on the bus used to give tapes to the driver to play which is what introduced me to Marilyn Manson, specifically The Dope Show.
If Brain Warner ever manages to shut up about how poorly women treat him, being duplicitous and deceitful and generally not telling him every single detail of their lives, then maybe he might be able to hold up a mirror and realise that he's just describing himself.
Not once in this book does he manage to treat a woman nicely.
Still, for many years I've been a fan of Marilyn Manson's music and as an ignorant 15 year old I considered Brian Warner a person I had things in common with and respected very much.This book shows exactly why some people should never write books about themselves.
Of course the whole MM concept is based on rebellion against a childhood trauma (his parents put him in a Christian school, cry me a river) like everyone else's.Admittedly this was at times interesting to read.
I still think he's an interesting character even though I have trouble respecting people with drug habits.
What did surprise me though in the last few chapters dealing with personal confessions is that this satanist is frightened by nightmares and still fears the dark (?).2 quotes I liked:- 'A thing worse than a lie is an exposed lie.'- 'As a bipedal animal, man by nature gravitates towards his evil side, which may be one of the reasons people always ask me about the darker half of my name but never about Marilyn Monroe.
Although she remains a symbol of beauty and glamour, she had a dark side just as Charles Manson had a good, intelligent side.
The balance between good and evil, and the choices we make between them, are probably the single most important aspects shaping our personalities and humanity.'Warning: Read this one when the kiddies are in bed.
Even if you don’t like Marilyn Manson as a musician or person, you have to give him respect for being able to write an autobiography that goes into many personal issues that has made him who he is.
Manson talks a great deal about his childhood which many would find the facts disturbing to read, but Manson doesn’t leave out any details.
It is hard to imagine Manson as a regular person after reading his autobiography and all of the things that he has been though, but these are the things that makes him a person.
I realized when I read the first chapter, that I was entering a very deep dark explicit world that I was not necessarily comfortable with.
It was as though the reader was dragged into a deep dark tunnel, almost literally there observing his path as a artist; that's how amazing the imagery in this book.
I almost felt like I was wasting my time reading this, but then I realized that perhaps that's the intention of the book, to have a sense of what he felt at certain moments in his life, like the chapter when he describes the making of the Antichrist album.
This book wasn't bad; it debunks several allegations that Manson (or Brian Warner) is the devil, the cause of the Columbine shooting or a teen suicide influence, and proves that without the stage makeup, this guy is pretty normal (though rather a jerk and a bully at times and very full of himself, convinced he has all the answers).What I didn't like was that much of it was ranting about his childhood, trying to evoke a pity party with disturbing memories, much like the notorious Running with Scissors...
While listening to Manson speaking, you can feel how much he means by his unspoken word, and the book erases that feeling, for most of the time.
There are interviews, documents, pictures and Manson's dreams in some chapters, and those are my personal favorites.The book was published in 1999, and logically, it covers only a period of his life till then.
I looked through other books dated after Holy Wood was released, and none of them were as intriguing as The Long Hard Road Out of Hell.Manson changed a lot since then.
I thought I’d give this a try when I saw it deeply discounted on b&n.
The book does not lend itself to either of those things.
The material was initially eccentric enough to be interesting but as my senses dulled the book became increasingly boring.
Manson is never able to overcome the powerful angst that he feels as a youth.
Instead of trying to develop his character, he fuels his angst with drugs and acts of shock.
Throughout the book he identifies and attempts to humiliate individuals by relating subjective stories about their personalities and their situations.
Not sure if you knew this already, but I'm absolute Manson trash ❤︎
Meh
Now, whereas I don't consider myself a fan of his music, I've always been fascinated by Brian Warner, the man behind the alter-ego of Marilyn Manson.
The biggest impression I walked away from was that Brian Warner doesn't want to be Marilyn Manson, but in a way he feels like he has to.
I really wanted to learn more about him, but instead it feels like a fluff piece for a Rolling Stone article.
However, for those on the outside (such as myself) who wants to know the man behind Manson, I don't suggest reading this book.
(Superstar).I remember kids in middle/high school passing this book around like it was their new Bible, and speaking in hushed, reverential tones about certain passages.
- Eeew, you like to take drugs and do stupid, gross things?
Oh, I see: You like to take drugs and do stupid, gross things.
PLEASE TELL ME MORE ABOUT HOW AWESOME YOU ARE WHEN YOU TAKE DRUGS AND DO STUPID GROSS THINGS.
I WILL NEVER BE ADEQUATELY IMPRESSED BY WHAT A BADASS YOU ARE UNTIL YOU TELL ME MORE RAMBLING, BORING-ASS ANECDOTES ABOUT HOW YOU LIKE TO TAKE DRUGS AND DO STUPID GROSS THINGS!
I found at times I felt overwhelmingly sympathetic towards him- although reading the disgusting bits and outrageous things he did (SMOKING BONES FROM A GRAVEYARD?
THE POOR RABBIT?)I hadn't realised how sensitive he was underneath how seemingly heartless he seemed at times.The depression and anger Manson feels in which he writes about can only come from his experiences in life - the hypocracy he was surrounded by from childhood (I'm talking about Ms Price, his Grandfather, his school).
It makes you think.
I recommend this, if you like Manson's music or don't understand him at all.
but it's really entertaining and quite interesting.He's met a lot of people, even the writer of the Satanic bible.Oh and there's actualy pages dedicated to rumours and myths about him and whether they're true or not.So, if any hater out there actually took the time to read this (which they probably wouldn't due to ignorance) they would learn that Manson does not do half of the things he has been accused of, and they would learn and understand why he is, the way he is.My favourite part is when he describes an acid trip haha.
In fact, this book made me look at Marilyn Manson as less of an intellectual, and more of some weird kid who happened to get famous, get really fucked up on drugs after having really weird family encounters, and then proceeded to have sex that most people would view as strange.
When there's nothing more to you than which person you put your male parts in, while on which drug, it makes you seem really, really boring.Was it disgusting?
There was a page or two here and there that had some philosophical wisdom, but for the most part, this book made my brain sad.
This one of the creepiest books I've ever read. This guy's life is disturbing in so many ways. I'm beginning to understand why he is the way he is . . .
