https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2985500-night-world-no-2
This collection of 3 more Night World books is no exception.What I like the most about Night World series is that although its the premise is rather hokey - it is basically a series of love stories between immortals and regular humans bound by the soulmate ties - the romances do not really succumb to cliches.
Each story also adds to the overall series arc, we gradually learn more and more about the Night World, the conflicts within it and the dangers of the looming Apocalypse.My only problem with this series is that Smith is too fixated on vampires and witches.
Will I ever read a Night World story of hers about a werewolf or some other paranormal creature?
Five stars for Rashel. God I love that girl. 5th book of the Night World series, she is an orphan badass freaking ninja that kills all the bad vampires searching for the one that killed her mom and best friend. On her birthday. Ouch... (view spoiler)[ But then she meets Quinn, fearsome vampire of the Night World and she discovers they're each others soulmate GAH! As if puberty and vampire killing wasn't enough! (hide spoiler)] Dark Angel  is pretty good. "Angel" is a very good character, but sin
5th book of the Night World series, she is an orphan badass freaking ninja that kills all the bad vampires searching for the one that killed her mom and best friend.
(view spoiler)[ But then she meets Quinn, fearsome vampire of the Night World and she discovers they're each others soulmate GAH!
(hide spoiler)] Dark Angel  is pretty good.
But instead of going to back to her meek and quiet life, Gillian is transformed into the most popular girl in school--with Angel's help.
Hannah has been reincarnated since the dawn of Night World, following her soulmate Thierry, Lord of the Night World and immortal vampire.
Also in this volume, readers get a feel for the changes that are going on in the Night World, set in motion by the original characters from Secret Vampire (Volume 1), Poppy and James, and Smith also adds some Night World history and lore in Soulmate.
There are only two things you can't do with them.1) Never let them find out the Night World exists.2) Never let fall in love with one of themThere are stories about what happens when the rules get broken.Dark Angel: Gillian Lennox's life has been nothing further than boring until one evening in the icy Pennslyvanian wilderness where she hears a scream, thinking it is a child she goes to save only to find her own death at handy.
The ending was great too ...the first line itself gave me thrills...so hell I wanted to keep reading and yeah I did that too...
:P:D Confusing Interesting and thriller story so I guess I will give this story 4.25/5 stars =]The Chosen: OMFG!
The story line was even better...From the starting till the end...the story was amazing...kept me reading continuously ...like every now and then there was a twist :D and then I went like "Nooooo!" or "No waayyy!" etc...Amazing story and I will give 4.5/5 stars :D:D:DSoulmate: OMFG Quinn!
=]<3Now People who really hated Night world 1....Please read this book and you will be like OMG!
Soulmate, despite its cheesy title, also gets a 3-star rating because there was more suspense and the vampire in this story actually seemed like he could have been centuries-old but trapped in a teenager's body.
I think the biggest flaw of most YA vampire novels (not that I've read a lot) is that the vampires who've lived for ages but look like teenagers still act like teenagers--no adult desires or wisdom or sense of responsibility.
I can tell this is all leading somewhere and I really like the assembled cast of characters and seeing them start to cross paths with ones I liked before. I need more and I'm frustrated but the stories are fun.
These three stories were just a lot more interesting and held my attention more than the first Night World novels.Book Four- Dark Angel3.5 stars*Read the summary for a refreshed memory*The main female character is Gillian.
Towards the end we got to learn about him and I just wish he would’ve gotten more spotlight than David.Villain Scale: 4Character Scale: 3.75Final Thoughts: Dark Angel is probably the most relatable novels of the Night World series and I really liked it.
The first story, Dark Angel, was good.
But it felt different from the other Night World stories.
The main character, Gillian, was cute, shy, I liked her.
Ok but the second story, The Chosen, was absolutely AMAZING!
And Quinn, her soulmate, reminded me of Ash, but not as good.
Oh and a lot of the main characters in the previous stories, popped in for a Circle Daybreak meeting.
Whenever I see a previous character pop in a story, I get so giddy it's not even fuuny.
Oh and he second story, The Chosen, was AWESOME!
Night World, No. 2Dark AngelRating: ★★★☆☆Plot Synopsis: Gillian is saved from drowning by her guardian angel.
Review: To be perfectly honest, Dark Angel is my least favourite instalment in the series so far.
I finished it, which is good, and I enjoyed more toward the end, which is also good.The ChosenRating: ★★★☆☆Plot Synopsis:  Armed with a wooden stake, martial arts, and the will to resist a vampire's mind control, Rashel struggles to avenge her mother's death….
But if death is her destiny, is the Lord of the Night World's love strong enough to save her?Review: Review to come
Dark Angel: This is one of my favorite books in the series.
She was basically invisible to the world until an angel came to bring out her beauty and give her an admirable personality.
I was so happy at the end when Thomas was forgiven so he could forgive himself.The Chosen: You can't help but admire Rashel for being so independent, tough, and wise.
She's basically my favorite aside from Gillian in the series.
However I did not like how this story was very Eleana & Stefan from Vampire Diaries.
I love Thierry's character.
A collection of three books set in the Night World--the home of vampires, werewolves, and witches.
Most importantly she wants to attract the attention of the boy she's had a crush on ever since she started noticing boys.
But then Angel starts making strange requests, making Gillian question what he really wants.The Chosen: After her mother is killed by a vampire, Rashel grows up to become a vampire hunter.
Every other vampire hunter seems to have heard of the Cat. But then she meets Quinn, a vampire she can't seem to kill.
Still if you enjoy the Night World books, this is just more of the same.
I liked these stories. What? I don't feel the need to justify it. They're fun YA paranormals, ludicrous, better-written than most. Sometimes you need that. Wine, pizza, L.J. Smith - if they don't make life better they at least make it tolerable.
Dark Angel: This one is probably the least favourite one in the series so far.
:/ The main character, Gillain, annoyed me a lot.
Angel annoyed me to..
She had that kinda cool personality.
I loved his personality but I wanted to know more about him.
And it was really sad about Dove.I loved their relationship, and the whole plot.
I like Hannah and her personality.
And I thought it was cool how she kept coming back and the parts were she was Hanna of the tree rivers.
:) And I'll give this 5 stars, because I loved it, and because of Chosen.
I was a bit disappointed that Gillian's soul mate was the most popular boy in her class- I wanted something with more substance.The Chosen- this is my favourite story yet, despite it also, in my opinion, being the scariest.
She and Quinn (her vampire soulmate) have an interesting relationship and I love how the book ends too.
Soulmate- a bit frustrating because the main character is a little slow at catching on that Maya is evil.
The "old soul" idea is again, really good, but the story seems to go on that little bit too long.
At least the author provides a reason for all 'made' (lamia, hereditary vampires, are another matter) vampires being teenagers—apparently, the process of transformation will kill anyone older than nineteen.The only real problem I have with the book, that's inserted into all three stories, is the rather saccharine "soulmate' principle; the idea that everyone in the world has one perfect match that he or she can be happy with in this lifetime and the next and the next, in once case at least.
As I said before, I really don't like these covers but after reading the first book in the series I just had to read this one.
They portrayed exactly what I wanted in a book at the time.
Why can't all books be like this?'.
Don't get me wrong, I love htese books but by the time you get to the second book of the same thing, it gets boring.
All and all I love these books anyways and I highly recomend you read the books especially if you're jus getting serious with reading and you have nothing to read.
(Everybody mashes up all their favorite characters and tropes into a personal fantasy playground when they're sixteen, right?
Guys?) It has a secret history of the world, in which there is a Night World of witches, vampires, and shapeshifters, who are now trying to bring on the apocalypse, opposed only by an idealistic group of humans, witches, vampires, and shapeshifters with a nifty cool name (Circle Daybreak), and also there are soulmate bonds, reincarnation, and, lately, dragons.
Sadly I am not as keen on soulmate bonds now as I was when I was sixteen, but L.J. Smith still is.
This book has three short stories that are all set in this interesting supernatural world. It was not what I was not expecting it to be so modern because it was written before I was born. My favorite story in this book has to be the second one, of course the vampire story. Although there are all types of Supernatural creatures in each each story, each story tended to surround one type of supernatural being. The characters were all different, with different strengths and different weaknesses. Overall I feel that I should give the other voice and try as well!
I really like the format of the smaller stories. You get to know each of the characters intimately, knowing their background and paranormal history. Some creatures are born as such and some are created, making each an individual with original thought processes. And just when you believe the book is about to end with yet another three stories completed, the author starts corralling them all together in the same place and time to form a team of Night Worlders who will attempt to save us all - adding yet another dimension to the story telling. Definitely a must read!
I love this series. It's really interseting, i'd reccomend it.I Loved the second story in this book, i think it's my fave outta the whole series..... so far lol:)
A great anthology of stories set in the same world! A must for any supernatural romance lover! The stories cross paths from time-to-time, as well.
Please check out Electrifying Reviews for more reviews like this, plus giveaways, interviews, and more!Dark AngelFrom what I remembered from reading Dark Angel previously, it definitely wasn’t my favorite of the Night World series.
It definitely isn’t one of my favorites in the series, but fans of L.J. Smith and the Night World books would be foolish to not read it.
One of the most unique aspects of The Chosen, especially compared to the other Night World novels, in the narrator.
Night world by L.J.Smith Volume 2 : Dark Angel,The Chosen , Soulmate Characters Book One: Gillian Lennon, David Blackburn, AngelBook Two: Rachel Jordan, John Quinn, Timmy Book Tree: Hannah Snow, Thievery Descriptors Vampires, werewolves, witches, shape shifters -- they live among us .Night World is their secret society, a secret society with very strict rules.And falling in love or tel an Human/mandarin breaks all laws of the Night World.
I liked Angel a lot, but it was not my favorite book from the series..Not that Gillian and David aren't cute they are..
I liked both of their main characters ...
Great personalities and I liked their reluctance.
Even though I never liked Quinn in Daughters Of Darkness, I have officially changed my opinion.
I like him and I like the fact that neither character became 'soppy' lol.Soulmate - Old Souls are epic!
and I like his development ...
he still loves Mary-Lynette and he still wishes to see her but he seems to have a little more hope after seeing Hannah which I liked.Overall I think I have to say that Volume 2 didn't ruin the soulmate concept after all.
The second omnibus volume to L.J. Smith’s popular Night World Series does not disappoint.
The Chosen, which contains one of Ms. Smith’s strongest characters, Rashel, will pull at your heart-strings and leave you distraught for the character’s fate, while also showing you that Ms. Smith does far more than tell a good love story.
Finally, Soulmate, arguably the best story in the series, will show you that the Night World Series, five books in, can still hold its weight-and believe me, it only gets better from here.
I honestly do not know why I kept reading this thing, let alone finished it.
Maybe it was morbid hope that the monsters would actually remember what they were and start putting an end to all this useless angst instead of falling into the unexplicable and sudden Wuv, Twoo Wuv of the One True Soulmate.There were a few other things that irritated me about these novels but they may just be useless nitpicking on my part.
This is a pet peeve of mine because it means there must be a majority of vampires in the world with severe overbites, considering how many of them seem to rest their fangs on their lower lips in so many stories.So in the end, this compilation was so not my cup of tea.
Dark Angel: I really like this plot idea.
I liked Gary as a character, but he would have been cooler if her were more sinister and hadnt given up so easily.
The characters are really cool too!The Chosen: I love Quinn!
Maybe it would have been better if he had died.[image error]Soulmate: This is a great story that shows that love can outlast time.
Thierry seemed to be a guy who needed complete control, and to be so controlled by his love for a girl who he has killed dozens of times over his like seems a little strange, but I loved him for it!
No matter how much time passed, he still loved her.
I love the way these short stories are told and then at one point the author puts them all together.Another thing that i liked was the background info on the characters and how the author goes into deep detail on explaining their history and what they went through.
Overall these bookw as a good read that i enjoyed very much and I would say this is mostly about not giving up and going for what you want, each character faces situations were they are forced to give up but they don't and that what makes this book so interesting and keeps the stories going.
Just like the first book it's original. Smith uses very mild relations of romance compared to others today. It's simple, nice, pleasant and overall has a very inresting storyline compared to other paranormal romance series. Three, I guess short stories in one book. There's something for everyone. It's an admirable, sastisfying book.Vampires, werewolves, witches, shapeshifters -- they live among us without our knowledge. Night World is their secret society, a secret society with very strict rules. And falling in love breaks all the laws of the Night World.
