https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/847987.England_Their_England
This book is an absolutely pleasure when you want cheering up. It's humour is close to that of "Three men in a boat" which is saying something. The description of the village green cricket match is a classic - I can't read the scene without laughing till my ribs hurt.
Written in the 1930s, this is a Scotsman's idiosyncratic portrait of the English. Something of a roman a clef, the book includes veiled vignettes of public figures of the day against the typically English backdrops of the country house, the cricket match and the London pub. Whether one reads it as satire or 'takes it straight', the book is absolutely mesmorising - apart from the famous chapter depicting the cricket match which, all too true to life, is interminable. It is worth hunting down the Folio Society edition which is bound to look like a copy of Wisden.
I loved this little book. Written in the 1930s and terrifically old fashioned, it was beautifully worded and a joy to read. Ostensibly about a scotsman coming to London to observe the English in preparation for writing a book about them, it is actually a lovely selection of glimpses into a bygone lifestyle of ill prepared diplomats, country house weekends and sport in its various guises amongst other things. A fascinating rich use of language and hilarious characters with unlikely sounding names. If you fancy a little something different - this could be what you are looking for.
Gentle, tongue-in-cheek humour about England and Englishness from the perspective of a Scot back in the 1920s. Good fun and a book I was very pleased to get hold of. Thanks Nancy for being instrumental in bringing that about!
3.5*I put this on my to-be-read list sometime last year and promptly forgot about it, so when I came across it again, I wasn't quite sure why I was reading it, but what I found was a lovely, gentle, whimsical satire which is well worth a read.
Nope. Dropping this. Not for me. Too much babbling and not enough story.
The Roast Beef of Old England!”The above extract from a popular song of the 18th century probably sums up A.G. Macdonell’s view of what would constitute Utopia.
Billed as social satire, this book is more like an extended love letter to the idea of Olde England, although there are one or two chapters, notably the one on fox hunting, that I would count as actual satire.The book popped up in my GR recommendations because I recently read “Three Men in a Boat” and this indeed has a very similar type of humour.
If you thought “Three Men…” was hilarious then you will probably also find this funny.
Well, not a good book from, an English point of view. That is, a Sassanach point of view. OK - it pokes fun at the English from a Scottish point of view which ought to be edifying for those of us on this side of the pond. Anyone for cricket?? Macdonnell pokes fun at himself, too! A good, quick read, a pleasant read and very entertaining. Well enjoyed.
I have the 1949 edition. Can't remember it. To re-read sometime.
It takes a special sort of genius to describe cricket ball going up in the air, then keep us riveted by sharp, fast narrative for three pages until it comes down again.
A masterly but unfortunately forgotten classic.... captivating right from its intro and that cricket match account is superlative. The best evocation possible in post WW-I England...
Cute wee story. Reminds me of the Jeeves stories.
Some of these are still apparent today.The scenes include a country house weekend, a visit to the theatre, cricket and rugby matches, a voyage to Danzig, the village pub, political meetings ("...
Of these, I'm afraid I didn't find the cricket match nearly as funny as it's cracked up to be, but the comments on, for example, schools of novelists or the pretentiousness of modern theatre were much more amusing.In parts, the book reminded me of H.V.Morton's "In Search of England" and there are some lovely, sumptuous sentences that run into pages.
A very enjoyable experience that allows the reader to escape this angry, money hungry world for a little flight to a peaceful time and place.
MacDonell creates a little adventure seen through the eyes of Donald Cameron who is required by his employer to write a book about the English.
If the purpose of this book is to escape and live in a world that does not exist anymore, the goal is achieved.
The joy found in reading this book is heartfelt and merits being kept on hand for the gloomy time when one needs a lift of spirit, well done MacDonell.
A Scot looks at the ways of the English after WW1.Very interesting look at 1920's England.
Very funny, but you can see why people voted for Brexit.
I had never heard of this book before I started reading from the Guardian's list of 1000 novels. It was so funny! I started chuckling on the very first page.
A hugely enjoyable read. What could be better? A brilliant cricket match; a hunting scene beautifully kebabbed; thatchers- a gently satirical look.at Englishness. Lovely half term reading.
A wonderful whimsical view of English life. Amazed it was written over 80 years ago. It still seams fresh.
This one is a hoot in the same vein as Wodehouse and Jerome K Jerome.
The story in a nutshell is this, Scottish Donald Cameron meets Welsh Evan Davies in a pill box during World War One and discuss the apparently unfathomable characteristics of the English.
Cameron says he'd like to write a book about the English someday and Davies mentions he's a publisher in London and they should get together after the war.
He meets lots of people, eventually bumps in to Davies again and is tasked with writing the book they had discussed so many years before.
Upper class people with amusing names say things are ghastly and that's about your lot as far as studying the English people.
This book is simply wonderful. If you like P.G. Wodehouse, Evelyn Waugh, George MacDonald Fraser, you will like A.G. Macdonnell. A Scotsman's view of England in the interwar years, England, Their England is full of hilarious observations and satirical takes on just about every type of personality in society. Admittedly, as an American, I was not able fully to appreciate the humor of the cricket match, the book's most famous scene, because I don't understand the game. The only negatives are that the book isn't longer or it's author more prolific.
Moments of decent satire and occasionally - when he stops fannying around and dials down the panto silliness - a little lyrical. But very, very much 'of its time' (quite entertainingly racist at points), dated and just, well, tiresome. Like a not-as-clever 'Decline and Fall'. I somehow came across it mentioned as a pointed Scottish 'take' on the English, but it's really an affectionate and unfalteringly loyal letter of love. Harmless, but nowt special.
* 1000 novels everyone must read: the definitive listSelected by the Guardian's Review team and a panel of expert judges, this list includes only novels – no memoirs, no short stories, no long poems – from any decade and in any language. Originally published in thematic supplements – love, crime, comedy, family and self, state of the nation, science fiction and fantasy, war and travel – they appear here for the first time in a single list.
I picked this up because it was carried by a character in Uprooted by Lynne Reid Banks. It is quite funny in parts. Some of it is more difficult for an American to understand (like the chapter on cricket). But the general idea comes across. There is not much of a plot. It is a fond look at the foibles of the English written by a Scot. A fun read.
An unwieldy hybrid of satire and guidebook, hung on the flimsiest pretence of a plot (a young Scot is commissioned to write a book about the English), which traverses similar territory to Jerome and Wodehouse without the former's smarts or the latter's ineffable harmony. And yet, it not infrequently stumbles almost bashfully into greatness, and what could be more English than that?
One of the best books written that takes a fond and funny look at the English between WWI and WWII. This book is a classic and should be read by anyone who wants to get a look "behind the curtain" of how the English Self identify
Well, it's dated, but some things about the English are eternal, like cricket and multisyllabic hyphenated upper-class surnames. There are some amusing observations and beautiful turns of phrase here.
There were some really funny bits and some great observations, although a few parts felt a little dated. I felt it was let down by the last chapter, which didn't seem to fit in with the tone of the rest of the book.
If you don't understand the game of cricket it is difficult to understand the humor.
