https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/420733.Kill_and_Tell
The story is interesting but the mystery is a bit weak.What I like most about Howard’s writing is that, although her older books may sometimes seem outdated, her heroes are always ahead of their time: dark and brooding with alpha tendecies, dark stubble, strong, muscular features, threadbare jeans, shirts with sleeves rolled up ...
Not doing it for me.Firstly, while I do want heroes to have good manners, treating women like they are weak, helpless little princesses usually rubs me the wrong way.
He's been a virtual stranger to her but, out of duty and respect for her mother who never stopped loving him, Karen flies to New Orleans to identify and claim her father's body.Marc doesn't really like Karen at first - he finds her too cold and unfeeling - but it doesn't take long until he realizes that's just a facade and, in fact, she feels too much behind her controlled behavior.
**2.5 stars**Karen is surprised by a package that arrives at her house from her estranged father.
Karen is still mourning her mother’s death when she is informed her father has been murdered.
Her father's murder wants her dead.
Detective Chastain is intrigued by the murder of a homeless man which happens to be Karen’s father.
I'm not an insta love fan and I've noticed that happens a lot with this author.
I've loved every other book of Linda Howard's that I've read so far.
So, I was surprised that this one didn't work for me.SERIES:
Each book can be read as a standalone
"Dance with me," he said softly, standing up and holding out his hand to her. She stood and went silently into his arms. She closed her eyes, and her head found her personal resting place on his shoulder. There couldn't be anything more perfect, she thought, than slow dancing, barefoot, on a balcony in New Orleans, while the rain poured down and twilight wrapped around them.  This was the part of the book that had me hooked, and I couldn't put it down until the mystery solved (which just happe
"Dance with me," he said softly, standing up and holding out his hand to her.
There couldn't be anything more perfect, she thought, than slow dancing, barefoot, on a balcony in New Orleans, while the rain poured down and twilight wrapped around them.
This was the part of the book that had me hooked, and I couldn't put it down until the mystery solved (which just happened to be the end of the book).
Marc was so smooth, strong, gallant, and oh SO alpha...
and just exactly what Karen needed.I LOVED Marc & Karen together, and I loved their story!The story, characters, and writing are amazing!
Karen’s estranged father is murdered in New Orleans not long after the death of her beloved mother and her emotions are in turmoil.
From meeting the very male (yum!) and a little hostile Detective Marc Chastain, to having attempts on her life, Karen’s life is turned upside down!
He was the most considerate man she’d ever met, and the hell of it was he was so damn alpha.
Sultry hot New Orleans nights were the perfect setting for this sizzling love affair!
I devoured the story!As for the narration, Natalie Ross is perfection!
Ms. Ross enhances any story she narrates!
Kill and Tell3.5 StarsAfter receiving a package from her estranged father, Karen Whitlaw doesn't even give it a second glance.
But when Dexter Whitlaw is murdered in New Orleans and Karen is plagued by a series of mysterious "accidents", she soon realizes that someone is desperate to get their hands on the package.
With help from homicide detective, Marc Chastain, Karen must learn her father's secrets before she falls victim to a determined killer.
In sum, not one of Howard's better books but it is a quick and entertaining read nonetheless.
Rereading 5/24/15I'm in the mood for a Linda Howard book, rereading a favorite. I knew I loved this book but I'd forgotten how much I loved it!! Marc Chastain is a New Orleans Detective investigating the murder of what appears to be a homeless man. Soon he learns the man's identity as Dexter Whitlaw a Vietnam veteran. Marc is a compassionate man who decides to look further into the veteran's death and track down his next of kin.Karen Whitlaw is an ER Nurse who is still mourning the death of he
Marc is a compassionate man who decides to look further into the veteran's death and track down his next of kin.Karen Whitlaw is an ER Nurse who is still mourning the death of her beloved mother, when she receives a call from NOPD informing her of her estranged Fathers death.
Upon arrival in New Orleans she is dismayed and a bit shocked to feel the hostility coming from the Detective investigating the murder of her father.Once Marc realizes he misjudged Karen and gets to know her, he decides to do everything he can to help her make the necessary arrangements.
While helping Karen he decides that he wants Karen and plans an "intensive courtship" to get her and keep her!!My favorite scene:
2.5 stars She punched the play button and listened to the tape rewinding. After some whirring and a couple of clicks, a drawling baritone voice broke the quiet of the room. For some reason, her breath gave a little hitch. The voice was somehow beguiling, with warm, dark, pure masculine tones that quivered along her nerve endings, almost as if she had been touched. This, ladies and gentlemen, this is the sound of instalove. But this book isn't only about that, it is about instalust, instasex, ins

Great romantic suspense set in New Orleans and Ohio. I loved the scenes in New Orleans, I almost felt like I was in the French Quarter siting on the balcony with Mark and Karen. I love how LH described Mark and his southern gentleman characteristics. The scene where he seduces Karen with some wine and dancing on a steamy New Orleans night was so hot! I highly recommend this book!
I liked it, but not the best LH I've read.As usual the hero was sexy, although I wasn't on board with his original plan to simply seduce the grieving heroine with no thought of a future relationship.
Perhaps in a man's mind - the magic penis is a thing and he really thought some great sex would soothe her grief over her father's death.
He quickly abandoned that plan for insta-love however.
I don't feel like the relationship ever developed all that much, just *bam* instalove.The hero from the next book was introduced toward the end and he seems like a pretty fascinating guy.
It is the first of a series, but the books are only loosely connected.Detective Mark Chastain is some kind of heart-throb, huh?
Also, it was almost love at first sight, once Marc got past his hasty judgement of Karen.Also, no suspense.
Howard never creates a helpless heroine.But why do so many of these types of suspense thrillers always always ALWAYS involve (view spoiler)[ a corrupt senator, in the billiards room, with a wad of cash and a candlestick?
(hide spoiler)]This is a series opener.
John Medina gets a book of his own: All the Queen's Men.
Excellent romantic suspense.
Good thriller, interesting characters, good relationships, good plot and action.Dexter was a Vietnam Vet who abandoned his wife and daughter after the war.
His daughter Karen went to New Orleans to identify and bury him.
He is the main character in the next book: "All The Queen's Men."I loved the scene where Karen fights the killer in her apartment.
She was smart and followed advice from her father the sniper.I read the paperback a few years ago and recently listened to the audiobook.
I wanted to get back to the main plot.
I couldn't put it down when I found that the hero was a completely yummy creole cop with all his protective alpha instincts filtered through that gorgeous Southern charm and generosity.
Seriously, Marc is beyond hot and well worth the book by himself.If that's not enough, then add a heroine you'd love to be friends with who not only is kind but also determined and resourceful.
Even her weaknesses (view spoiler)[(like fleeing after a night of passion)  (hide spoiler)]were understandable enough under the circumstances and completely redeemed by subsequent action.If there's a flaw, it's the length of time between meeting and falling in love between the two main characters.
Instead, he is killed.Dexter Whitlaw was at one time a young husband and father.
When he does he is not the same man.Karen Whitlaw, a nurse, had been notified by the New Orleans police department that her father had died.
She had recently lost her mother and the pain was still constant.
Ms. Howard's first story in the 'CIA's Spies' series builds slowly with the backdrop: a not-so-innocent package, paid assassins and politics.
The ongoing question was just who could Marc and Karen trust?
The chemistry was good and somewhat edgy; Marc had a caveman mentality.
3.5 stars, maybe because it read a bit outdated I didn't quite get into all of the book. Loved the H/h's chemistry, but the romance felt rushed. The suspense story was solid and interesting. The ending was a bit over the top though and included a major pet peeve of mine (view spoiler)[ the killer does a big info dump confessional at the end, instead of just killing the H/h and getting the hell away from the scene. So unrealistic, especially when the killer is suppose to be a pro. (hide spoiler)]
3.5 stars, maybe because it read a bit outdated I didn't quite get into all of the book.
Loved the H/h's chemistry, but the romance felt rushed.
The suspense story was solid and interesting.
The ending was a bit over the top though and included a major pet peeve of mine (view spoiler)[ the killer does a big info dump confessional at the end, instead of just killing the H/h and getting the hell away from the scene.
So unrealistic, especially when the killer is suppose to be a pro.
(hide spoiler)] All in all, a good read (or listen, should I say.)
DNF at 49%.I still love Linda Howard, but this book and I were not meant to be.
I don't like the story, the heroine, the hero or the villain(s).
The same amount of pages is devoted to some random characters that have nothing to contribute to the story, as it is to the main characters.
Ugh. At first he's such a judgmental SoB and after he notices how Karen tightly holds her hands, he decides she needs some of his lovin' to get her through life.
Karen is just a spineless nobody.
People might like it, but it's not my cup of tea.
Although I read these out of order I was okay with the storyline. I loved this book. True LH at her best!
Almost everything was laid bare right from the beginning, I was reading mostly for Marc and Karen than for the why of it.Not one of my top favorite of LH books but definitely a good read.
Would recommend.
3* for story (B-/C+)4.5* for narration by Natalie Ross (A)The story was somewhat weak to me.
In fact, I read the book in print 3 years ago and while listening to it, I couldn't remember one thing about the plot.
Ross uses subtle changes in her voice to let the listener know when a character is thinking the words or speaking them aloud.
This is an important skill for a narrator and much appreciated, especially in stories like this where characters spend time in their own thoughts.Originally read January 2009 in print.
This is the first in a trilogy featuring John Medina (ultimate spy).
He doesn't have much play time in this book though as it's centered around yummy Marc, a cop from New Orleans and the withdrawn Karen, nurse from Ohio.
Her estranged father winds up murdered in New Orleans and since he was ex-military Marc wants to help Karen find out what happened and also to help her get over her self-protection mode.
I am looking forward to All the Queen's Men which tells John's story.
I've read a lot of erotic romance and erotica in the ten years since I first turned into a puddle of goo while reading the seduction scene in Kill and Tell.
I still haven't read anything sexier.
What could be more erotic than slow dancing barefoot on a balcony on a rainy night in New Orleans with a hot cajun detective focused on getting you into his bed?
Nothing, I tell you.
The dreamy scene, told without graphic and clinical detail, as seen through the eyes of the thoroughly seduced heroine is powerful and more erotic than anything I've ever read.
It fell short. The mystery behind the story was interesting, and that's what gave the book 3 stars, but mixing that with the romance just did not do it for me.You meet a man, know him for less than ten days, and you are now in love with him? Then, of course, vice versa. Nah, don't work. Granted, he's a really nice alpha, but she couldn't have known more than a fact or two about what kind of person he was and suddenly she's head over heels.Ehhhh.
reread 5/2015
Quinn made me do it. I'll get her!
Originally published back in 1998, Linda Howard's Kill and Tell is still an awesome read.
I had originally bought the paper back when it was published and since I liked the book soo much, I bought the hard back for my library shelves.
It has been so long since I read this book, it was almost like reading it for the first time.
A great heroine with a great combination of vulnerability due to the loss of her parents and kick ass independence.
A great supporting cast that was well developed.The reason for 4 versus 5 stars:1.
An excellent ‘why are people trying to kill me’ mystery.I understood how Karen Whitlaw was feeling.
I love his smooth charm, and the way his inner self becomes so primitive in protecting Karen.
And the reader knows it - they balance each other beautifully.The plot could maybe have been a little more inventive, but I liked it.
While the reader knows what’s what and who’s who, the characters in the book don’t and they fight for their lives while trying to figure it out.
The suspense is eased a little since the reader knows what’s going on, but it in no way takes away from the story.Excellent!
At times the descriptions of how wonderful Marc is and how wonderful he treats all women got to me.
Really Marc, you're just a man.
Stop thinking how wonderful you are and just show me.
Marc and Karen are both great characters.
I love that dark, sexy, mysterious man.
Makes me think it's time for a re-read of All the Queens Men.I miss Linda Howard's old writing style.
While I didn't love every aspect of this book, this is really good writing and it bears repeating--LH on top of her game!
I usually love Ms. Howards work, but this one was way below most of her others.While I enjoyed the characters main characters, the story seemed a little too rushed and it lackec the excitement of some of her other mysteries.
The romance between the two main characters was alright, but the book was very slow to start and everything else was just too flat.
The linkage with Rick Medina from the other book in this series was pretty weak as well.
A pretty dull read compared to some of Ms. Howards other works.
(and she's the author of several of my favorite mysteries).
Classic Linda Howard plot and I loved it! Though I was hoping for more drama and more romance, but overall I enjoyed the book. Linda Howard always nailed it, in terms of the thrill of the chase and the storyline. But again, I want more drama, dammit! Haha. Look forward to read more from her.
Great audio book. Looking forward to reading more in this series.
