https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2186644.Mei_Li
It turns out the illustrator was an artist who went to China on a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1931 and became well-known at prominent art museums (including the Met) for his Chinese and Mongolian lithographs.
It took this artist, Thomas Handforth, more than two years to produce the story and the art of Mei Li, and it was worth it.
Mei Li is an adorable and relatable little girl who wants the adventure and opportunities that boys experience, simply by being male.
Camels in China!
I do think the art in this story is beautiful.
There is no color, it is just drawings.This is from the 30s set in China.
I don't know if Thomas studied Chinese culture, if he was Chinese, but the drawings feel like it is someone who knows.
It does shows how things were.There is New Year's Festival that Mei Li goes to see with her 3 lucky pennies and 3 lucky marbles.
She is scared of many of the things there are to do and she goes home where she finds her Kingdom to rule over and she is happy.
The story is about how Mei Li sneaks out with her brother San Yu to attend the big New Years celebration and tries to prove in various ways that there are things for girls to do at the fair.It's dated, but I didn't feel like it was particularly insulting to Chinese people--it sounded like the author based it on a real little girl whom he knew at the time, and that the events reflected a Chinese New Year celebration of the period.
I don't know if the "candle-top pigtail" is a stereotype or not, but I guess it could sound a little demeaning if you're looking for that.
3.5 STARSI had low expectations for "Mei-Li" based on what little I’d heard and the fact that it was written by a Westerner about Chinese culture in the 1930s/40s.
It was also interesting to learn that he based the story on a real little girl he knew during his stay in China.
Certainly it was no paean to women’s rights, but opening poem aside, I’m not sure it was worse than any Western book of the same era since, essentially, most girls during that era were raised to “rule over a [domestic] kingdom”, too.
In Mei Li's case, she does a whole lot of things that San Yu only makes fun of because she's not very good (walking at stilts for example).
Which is also not a good lesson for my son, because at the end of it, because for one thing the boy turns out to be a bit of a coward as well as a jerk, but he's a boy and he automatically gets everything that the more resourceful girl doesn't get.
Young Mei Li disobeys her parents and the traditions of her society by following her brother into the walled city the morning before New Year's Day. The story takes place in China almost a century ago, and readers will delight in this little girl's adventure into the city as well as her attempts to leave the city before the gates close for the night!
Mei Li is both curious and brave, and readers will relate to her attempts to prove herself worthy of the trip in her big brother's eyes.
Both author and artist, Handforth lived in China for several years, and claimed that the story was based on a real Chinese girl.
Mei Li is looking forward to her family's New Year visit from the Kitchen God. When her brother San Yu heads to the fair to purchase items to impress the God, Mei Li sneaks along even though girls are supposed to stay at home.
I realize this comes from a less enlightened time period and a culture with different values, but the message of the story makes me hesitant to give it to kids without some kind of disclaimer for their parents.
It would be a nice way to broach the subject of sexism with school-age kids, though!
I would recommend that parents use this story as a springboard for a discussion of girls roles throughout the world and how lucky we are in our country that girls are not so limited.
We did not know when we borrowed the book that the story centered around Chinese New Year celebrations, so we were thrilled that we read it just after this year's celebrations.
This book was selected as one of the books for the January 2014 - Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
Then I felt a bit better after reading the illustrator/author lived in China and spent two years on a book about a real little girl he knew.
Then my heart sank again after reading the poem translated from the Chinese at the beginning that seems to imply girls are worthless.
However, the entire story exists to contradict the poem by showing all the things a girl can experience and accomplish at a New Year's festival-- even within limitations imposed by her culture.
But the story's message - little girls are lesser beings that can't do most things - stinks.
Prime example: a diviner tells Mei Li that she'll be a ruler some day.
Then, pages later as the book ends, Mei Li's told that one day, she'll be the monarch of her own home.
Granted, I'm reading a 1930's book with 2015 eyes.
But I'm not much into giving "that's just how things were back then" passes to children's books anymore.
Sigourney's questions for me during story time included "Why can't Mei Li go to the fair and do stuff like her brother?" and "Why did her brother say Mei Li's 'just a girl'?" It's simple, Sigourney.
While Mei Li presents the idea of a young girl who attempts to make something of herself in a society that views females as essentially worthless, at the end of the tale she isn't very successful, and seems to accept that the best place for her, at least for now, is in the house.
This book is very much a product of its time, so it's interesting historically but not really the best for modern children too young to place it in a historical context.
A pig is addressed as "ugly," a duck as "stupid," and the young girl attempts to assert her bravery by facing a "dancing" bear with a ring through his nose.
Mei Li is the youngest child in a loving family. She’s easy to spot with her “candle stick” pigtail atop her head. One day she goes with her brother to the New Year Fair. They have many adventures and eat wonderful treats, but almost miss getting back through the city gates! Originally published in 1938, this won the 1939 Caldecott medal. Wonderful illustrations bring the Chinese cultural celebration to life. This is a great way to introduce very young children to a different country and its culture. The children get into a few scrapes, but all ends well.
It's unfortunate that this early Caldecott winner (only the second book to win) depicts girls as being unable to do many of the things boys do simply because of tradition. However, if using this book in class, it could be a good example of how things have changed in the world, how sex roles are not quite as rigid as they used to be.
Eh okay I'm so torn because I loved the artwork. The shading and the intricacy in which the faces and areas were drawn is simply mesmerizing; however, it was tough reading about a little girl who was no more than an animal to her family and the community. It makes sense in a historical way but it did make it difficult to read at some points.
Caldecott Winner - 1939 I decided not to rate this one. I always struggle to rate a book that was likely advanced for the year it was published. It rubs me completely wrong for present day and the message it sends about the place of a girl, but part of me is impressed that a book about a Chinese character won an award during that time period.
The kids and I are reading through the Caldecotts this summer. We enjoyed the story. Yes, some of the language and ideas seem dated but we enjoyed chatting about that. They said they were pleasantly surprised.
This review also appears on my blog.Mei Li wishes to go to the New Year Fair in the city, but little girls always have to stay home. Undaunted, she sneaks out to visit the city, following her brother. What adventures await? Thomas Handforth's Mei Li is the winner of the 1939 Caldecott Medal. Unlike the previous winner,  Animals of the Bible , Mei Li is a real picture book.The story centers around a young Chinese girl, Mei Li, who is unsatisfied with remaining at home, while the New Year Fair is
This review also appears on my blog.Mei Li wishes to go to the New Year Fair in the city, but little girls always have to stay home.
, Mei Li is a real picture book.The story centers around a young Chinese girl, Mei Li, who is unsatisfied with remaining at home, while the New Year Fair is going on.
* Potentially problematic, could possibly still work for classroom with adequate explanation.Thomas Handforth was not from China, however, he did live in Beijing for around 5 years and Mei Li is based on a real girl.
However, he still wasn't part of that culture and I'm not sure how people of Chinese background feel about this book.
However, in general the book is meant to be positive towards the culture, whether that's actually achieved I'm not certain.Things which are problematic include fairly rampant sexism with all the things a girl is not allowed to do.
It’s clear why this book was a Caldecott winner all those years ago—Mei Li depicts a Chinese girl’s struggle to find some sort of purpose as she visits a fair with her brother.
This book would be best for smaller groups of attentive children, as the pictures are large and it’s lengthier than other picture books.
However, this book wouldn’t be the best for any sort of cultural studies, as it’s fairly surface level and given that it was written and illustrated in 1938, it’s mildly racist even despite how it tries to celebrate this culture.
If this book were written and published in modern times (I don't even think it would be), I'd give it one star or not rate it at all.
Then it follows the adventure of Mei Li, a young Chinese girl, who sneaks into the city for the festival and her adventures.
The worthless girl theme recurs a few times throughout the story, as Mei Li bravely ventures forth in the city.
Very impressive, considering the time in history when the book was written and illustrated.
When I think about the story and view the illustrations I begin to think Thomas Handworth was perhaps ahead of his time.
This story is about a young Chinese girl who ventures outside of her household on New Year’s to prove that there are activities that girls can participate it.
The illustrations looked like they were sketches but they were not at all!
It looked like sketches because of the pen strokes and the medium that was used in order to create the illustrations.
Whether it be things that they celebrate, their food, their traditions, their style of dress, or even the types of activities they participate in.
I absolutely adore the black charcoal illustrations in this book. This would be a great companion book to a nonfiction story about Chinese new year. There is also a great wall of china reference. You can definitely tell this book is from the 30's. Although I loved the illustrations, the plot was a little slow in some spots and it made it difficult to keep my attention.
I enjoyed reading this book which was named 1939 winner of the Caldecott award. Whether it is culturally accurate or not, I enjoyed reading about this family. The characters are affectionate and hard-working.
This was a nice mix of illustration and story. And it was a nice story telling of Chinese traditions. The artwork was very detailed.
Written in 1938, Mei Li won the Caldecott Medal for distinguished American picture book.
The book is, of course, dated.
It tells of a young Chinese girl who wants to go to the fair and do all the things that boys and older children can do.
The illustrations are fetching; one can feel the cold of winter in northern China.
I particularly like the camels.
Many people don't realize that there were camels in China.
These Bactrian camels, with their two humps came from Mongolia and were useful on the Silk Road.Thomas Handforth lived in China in the early 1930s, about the time my relatives were there.

The story describes Mi Li a little Chinese girl, who wants to go to the New Year's Fair with her brother and her Uncle Wang.
She convinces her brother to let him come along, but her brother tells her that there is nothing she can do there because she is a girl.
She discovers at the end of the day that the best part of the fair is coming home.
Mei Li is a lovely character; she is kind to a poor girl and polite to all she meets.
It is great to see her grow more sure of herself over the course of the story.

A Caldecott Medal award winning book from 1938, this book is even older than I am! Lovely old lithographs and etchings make up the illustrations. The author/illustrator actually lived in China and wrote the story based on a little neighbor girl. It tells the story of a small girl who goes to the city to attend the New Year's fair and spends her good luck pennies and fancy marbles while there. This is a lovely, old, old story that is timeless in its appeal.
Beautiful sketches that bring life to a young girl's adventures in a city of China just before New Year's Day. This reflects old China and the cultural norms of the time, but I feel the author showed respect and dignity to the culture and the individuals. I could so relate to the young sister who wants to go and experience all the fun of her big brother and Uncle.
