https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6870.Enduring_Love
McEwan doesn’t use the word erotomania though, he calls it by its original name, De Clerambault’s syndrome.The sudden and obsessive love is directed at our main character, a married male journalist who writes science articles for magazines.
He’s also a religious nut whose goal is to “To bring you to God, through love.”The main story becomes how the journalist reacts to his stalker and how he shares his fear with his wife.
Because the main character is a science writer, we get snippets of scientific ideas – Darwin, DNA, the Hubble telescope, how brain scans show tricks of memory.Some lines I liked:  “The pavements were empty, the streets were full.
In ____ (place/time), _______________ (name of character) does __________ (action) so that __________ (goal), but _________ (conflict!). This book is _______ (adjective), ______ (adjective), and made this reader _____ (verb).
Enduring Love starts immediately with a set-piece of high tension, a hot air ballooning accident in the Chiltern Hills whose most agonising aspect is the five men trying to stop it - Joe being one of them, Parry another, for a moment the men are hanging by ropes, trying to keep the balloon grounded as strong gusts of wind play havoc.
Choupette starts off by observingreally what the book is about is the conflict between a way of thinking based on logical scientific reasoning and one based on emotions.
A provocative statement, Mr. McEwan.It is indeed provocative, and I also think it's at the heart of what the book is about.
Indeed, he blames her for not understanding him or his point of view, when it's blatantly obvious that he's misunderstanding her at least as badly.Most of the story is presented in a one-sided way, though Joe's eyes, and it's easy to be tricked into believing that the narrator's and the author's viewpoints coincide.
It is essentially a case study of a man suffering from extreme, disturbing delusions and a fierce obsession, and the man who struggles to deal with being the object of that obsession.
if we can really call him that manages to be horrifying and eerie and completely disturbing and yet, there is still a kind of terrible beauty to him that forces you to think about your own obsessions and your own loves.
I think McEwan is certainly trying to make us all see ourselves, at least a little bit, in the case study of the "villain," and I think he's quite successful at it.
The balloon goes up into the air with one of the strangers still holding it; nevertheless, he lets go too (at considerable height) and falls to the ground, dying instantly.One of the stranger, Jed, starts looking at Joe. Joe doesn't know what's going on but we do: Jed has developed an obsession with Joe. He fell in love with him and wants to be happy with him under the watchful eye of God.He's desperate.The characters are so unsympathetic that the reader finds himself rooting for Jed to kill them all.
Enduring Love was the weakest among the 9 McEwan’s books I’ve read so far.Scientific writer Joe rose met Jed parry during a heroic group act to rescue a 10-year-old boy during an air balloon accident, and unfortunately the uncoordinated act led to the death of one of the rescuers.
This put a strain on Joe’s previously harmonious relationship with his partner Clarissa, and the stress continued to build when Joe took the matters all into his own hands.
Maybe I was missing something.Personally I loved McEwan’s novels because of: 1) his quiet and fluent prose; 2) his exquisite verbalization of music.
1948) é um dos meus escritores de referência e “O Fardo do Amor” (1997) foi a minha décima terceira leitura do conjunto da sua obra literária - que revelam uma enorme criatividade e alguma controvérsia, quase sempre valorizada pelo público e pela crítica, e que invariavelmente se reflecte nos inúmeros prémios literários recebidos.
Entre inúmeras dúvidas, intenções falhadas, ausência de comando, incompetência, egoísmo, falta de carácter, tudo falhou… mas ”E mais uma vez, num espaço de tempo inferior a um batimento do coração inflamado pela adrenalina, uma outra variável foi acrescentada à equação: alguém se soltou, e o balão subiu mais alguns metros no ar, arrastando consigo todos os que ainda estavam pendurados.Não sei, nem nunca descobri, quem foi o primeiro a soltar-se.
Read it years ago!!!A tragic accident.....love, guilt, moral dilemma..............Thought-provoking prose........A terrific writer. One of my favorites!!!!!!!!!!!!!
You must know what happens next, and at all costs, and ignoring your outside life will become a necessity.
Atonement barely has that conceited, I-know-everything-even-the-biological-processes-which-govern-the-universe-entire narrative voice… which is why it's his Sole Masterpiece.And if you didn’t think the writer sufficiently pretentious, look at the dual appendixes at the end of the book, look at the over usage of words like love and innocence to describe the psychological landscape.
Of these seven books, I have enjoyed four -The Cement Garden, The Comfort of Strangers, On Chesil Beach and this one (oh yes and boo to me for not liking Atonement in either book or film mode) which means that I've got a McEwan enjoyment rating of 57.14% Now given that I am difficult to please, belligerent and bellicose, that is not a bad rating Mr McEwan.Enduring Love gets a thumbs up (shield your eyes now *spoilers* on the horizon) because the book introduces the two principal characters, Jed and Joe through what has to be the most random event ever used as a literary tool (please chime in on the comments section below if you can think of more random ones).
I have now read enough of his books to know there is a range from horrid to sublime and a bit of everything in between, and this one is the in between.
I didn’t for the obvious reason, I wanted to know which of the two scenarios was right, who was the crazy man here?
In the end, I realized, it didn’t really matter if Joe was right or wrong, he was still unbalanced, and he was still a very unreliable narrator.
I have two other McEwan books sitting on my library bookshelves.
Freelance science journalist Joe Rose – on a picnic with his partner, Keats scholar Clarissa, at the time – was one of those who rushed to help, as was Jed Parry, a young Christian zealot who fixates on Joe. He seems to think that by loving Joe, a committed atheist, he can bring him to God. In turn, Joe’s obsession with Jed’s harassment campaign drives Clarissa away.
It’s a deliciously creepy read that contrasts rationality with religion and inquires into what types of love are built to last.Reviewed with five other “love” titles for a Valentine’s-themed post on my blog, Bookish Beck.
“I just wanted you to know, I understand what you’re feeling. I feel it too. I love you.” If those words sound sweet or romantic to you, read this book and they will take on a whole new meaning. This is the uniquely articulated story of what unfolds after a tragic hot-air balloon accident, during which a man is killed. It starts with one moment, one look. No turning back. I found this to be an interesting, layered, and compelling read. Bordering on thrilling, but for the more intricate language
“I just wanted you to know, I understand what you’re feeling.
The overall tone is actually kind of ethereal, colored with themes of isolation, loneliness, and paranoia, it’s just the kind of thing to make you wonder who you can trust, what you really know.
During the telling of the story, there are brief but regular forays into scientific and philosophical subjects which are of interest to the main character.
The subject of Enduring Love is something that I’d never heard of before but nonetheless was a fascinating basis for the events that occurred after the accident.
Un altro McEwan doc.
Un incidente su un prato durante un pic-nic, con la conseguente morte di un uomo, offre lo spunto per una serie di riflessioni sulla vita, sul nostro attaccamento ad essa, e sprofonda Joe in un incubo senza fine in cui si troverà da solo contro tutti, creduto a tratti pazzo, costretto a rivedere le sue priorità, i suoi desideri per districarsi nella giungla in cui all’improvviso viene scaraventato.
Lo scrittore seziona l’animo umano con infinita meticolosità.
Il tempo si espande, ogni istante è immobile e allo stesso tempo incatenato al successivo.
I could never tell where this book was going, and I was surprised and thrilled by McEwan’s allegiance to truth that is nuanced, complex, and founded in the way we really feel and act, rather than manipulated via neat literary tricks that are so popular in commercial fiction and, to me, feel packaged.Enduring Love is my ninth Ian McEwan book and I now have a sense that I can group his work by certain characteristics.
(At first I thought that that McEwan-esquely-named disorder and its symptoms must surely have been invented by the man himself, but no, it is a real illness; though McEwan does cleverly present the entire story of Enduring Love as the basis for a psychiatric case history in an appendix.
And I thought the story did become a bit strained towards the end (view spoiler)[with Joe discovering that de Clerambault sufferers can become violent, just before that did actually happen, and immediately deciding he needed to get a gun for protection just as he discovered that Jed was holding Clarissa hostage (hide spoiler)].
However, as interesting as the plot's premise is...dear God, what a disappointment at the end.I cannot believe the novel took that long for the plot to come to its conclusion - the element of suspense is at first intriguing, but later simply becomes frustrating.
One is also built up with the idea that the plot has an unexpected conclusion, of “There must be something else going on here, right?” A story with writing of this much caliber must have a good ending, right?
McEwan would have do better to write a non-fiction science book than to put his thoughts this way into a novel.
In short, I've started hanging with a 'better' (or, for political correctness, 'different') literary crowd, and now McEwan seems to me to be the province of the armchair literati, the people who like to read the Booker Prize winners, the people who are content to read pretty, sophisticated prose that looks nice but means nothing.
This love proceeds to destroy the marriage of its victim, but really what the book is about is the conflict between a way of thinking based on logical scientific reasoning and one based on emotions.
Ok, this is my 4th book by Mr. McEwen and was very satisfied with this book.
I was hooked from the beginning and was bent over the book a lot when reading just anticipating what was going to happen next.
You wondered who was the crazy one in the story and at the end you found out.
There was forgiveness and happiness in the end but you have a thought of will it stay that way.I have read Atonement, Amsterdam, and Black Dogs by this author.
The author is very good at keeping you thinking about what comes next in the story line.
I read a lot of books by this author.
I like his writing.
Some of them are very good and some IMO are not so good.
This one I really enjoyed.
Not exactly for the subject of the story but for the way it was told.
I could not stop reading this book.
The story was told by the main character and I could not stop reading it.
I really felt that "Atonement" was this author most outstanding book but I will continue to read him because when I find another book this good it's always a pleasant surprise.
I don't know about this book.On one hand, when all is said and done the narrative feels simply like an intricately-written case study, though occasionally punctuated with inconsistently glorious descriptions, for an odd psychological disorder that even with all of Ian McEwan's brilliance is still only mildly interesting.On the other hand, it's McEwan's wonderful writing combined with a first-person perspective, which gives us the rare treat of a character reflecting introspectively using all of McEwan's power with words.Now and again I was reminded of Paul Auster - the hints at future calamities and complications prior to their being actually narrated, the ambiguity as to whether events are real or imagined, the questioning of the protagonist's sanity.Like Auster (but so much better), McEwan has a special talent for turning order into disorder.
I’d forgotten how deftly McEwan writes. The prose here is so vivid, it adds layers of complexity and introspection to an otherwise so-so plot. The opening chapter itself is worthy of 5 stars - I felt like I was actually witnessing the accident in real time, that the desperation, helplessness, horror, and guilt outlined on those pages were mine alone. Fantastic.
Joe Rose, a scientific journalist, is about to enjoy a reunion picnic with his girlfriend Clarissa when he witnesses an accident involving a hot-air balloon; he and a small group of strangers rush to help, but the incident results in a man's death.
Joe is a complicated character - obsessed by the rationality of science, he is nevertheless completely inept in the way he handles both Parry's behaviour and the problems in his relationship with Clarissa.
I may have lost some of my patience for the rambling, tangent-filled style in which the protagonist/narrator writes.I also wasn’t keen on the final part of the novel being comprised of two (fake) appendices, written about the characters from the point of view of a previously uninvolved third party.
Hopefully, it’s fallen short of actual stalking in most cases.It’s very well written, too, with Joe being a classic example of the unreliable narrator.
We’re aware from quite early on that the reality of the events Joe is narrating for us may actually be quite different from how he is portraying them.
You'd think I would know to expect this as this was my 5th McEwan novel, but I have to say this one was odder than I expected it to be.The first chapter of this book was excellent, and probably one of the most memorable I have ever read (if you don't know what it's about the cover is a pretty helpful clue).
This is written in the typical McEwan style, and felt quite similar in some ways to the last of his novels that I read, The Innocent.
A class act.
Some of his description on emotions, like the one above, feels like he is describing me (much better than I ever could).
The writing and descriptions of thought processes and feelings are amazing, they are insightful and read like poetry.
This is probably not for everyone, but if you enjoy descriptive books that unfold slowly, with a constant sense of foreboding, then give this a try.
I am adding more of his books to my TBR list.The Story: One windy spring day in the Chilterns, Joe Rose's calm, organized life is shattered by a ballooning accident.
Attention getting fast-paced first 3 chapters. Then the story gets a bit boring in the middle as the narration kept going on circles. I could not get the connection between the love of the couple for each other and the love that the crazy guy has for the male protagonist. However, the last 2 chapters including the 2 appendices really brilliant! It's my first time to read Ian McEwan and I am looking forward to read more of his works. I will be buying Atonement next month!
I knew almost nothing about this novel before starting it, except that I'd seen about 10 minutes of the film (starring Daniel Craig) so I knew it featured a balloon, a stalker and a homosexual obsession – none of these four being key things I generally looked for in a novel.Straight off the writing grabs you, more so than the plot.
But, the longer the story went on, the more I was being led down a path of expecting something special at the end, (view spoiler)[after all nobody apart from Joe had even seen Jed (hide spoiler)], and the more I worried that I was going to feel let down.
