https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/457939.Killer_Dolphin
3 stars!I have to admit I'm a bit disappointed in this one. Ngaoi Marsh is always being compared to Agatha Christie and so I had high expectations. Maybe I just picked the wrong book to introduce myself to this author, I don't know. The first half is really slooooow. The pace did pick up a bit once a body turned up and I really liked Inspector Alleyn and his assistant, Mr. Fox. So I'd still probably pick up this author again.
The only other Ngaio Marsh book I've read was little like a crime novel for the first half and then launched into the investigation for the second half.
In fact I probably enjoyed the first half more than the second.
Inspector Alleyn's investigation got a bit tedious in parts as he conducted interview after interview without uncovering any clues that made much sense to me.
I didn't really think the resolution of the plot made much sense but I enjoyed the cast of characters and the theatrical setting.
Enjoyable, but at the end of the day, this book was nothing very special.
Exceedingly well written! The words and sentences sing in clever word usage! Worth reading for that alone. The characters are intensely and sharply drawn and all so interesting I wanted far more of them on the page. Really fun read, if murder doesn't distract you from having fun reading...
Peregrine Jay has discovered the old Dolphin Theater that was glorious in its heyday but is now a ruined wreck after having lain disused for years and then suffered bombing damage in the Blitz 25 years earlier in Ngaio Marsh’s 1967 novel Death at the Dolphin.
Excited to get to visit the old theater, Peregrine gets a key from the estate agent and goes inside to explore.
Enchanted more and more by the theater, Peregrine doesn’t pay close enough attention and falls through a trap door on the stage that opens to a well of fetid, stinking water that has collected since the bomb.
I liked the theater setting, but thought the crime-solving element was both too simple and too small a part of the novel.
How often do you end up spending several hours in an airport terminal that has a used bookstore? I would have been remiss if I had not taken the chance to reread some classics like this one.
It is up to Inspector Roderick Alleyn to sort among the beautiful femme fatale, the terribly vain leading man, the sharp-tongued supporting actor, the woman scorned, the actor with a penchant for puzzles (and figuring out combinations), the house manager, and the patron who prefers to remain in the background yet was in his box on the fateful night.Although this mystery takes a while to get to the main action--there is no murder till about half-way through--the lead up is very interesting.
Killer Dolphin was more lighthearted than Light Thickens, the other book featuring Peregrine Jay, and also highly enjoyable.In the first couple of chapters, improbable events unfold in an absurd, comic, almost Wodehousian way.
Later in the book, the interviewing of the suspects is suspenseful and intriguing, as facts intermittently come to light.
Police Superintendent Alleyn has a bigger and more interesting role.The parts I found the least enjoyable in both books were the petty intrigues among the leading actors.
These books are possibly more interesting to theatre fans than to mystery fans, although I thought it was uniquely satisfying to encounter a combination of the two realms.
A great read, I liked the characters enough to wish no murder had taken place. My only caveat is the motive for the murder seemed so weak and the murderer's final thoughts completely at odds with all that is previously known. But that aside, my favourite book by her so far.
The edition I read has 284 pages, the main character is properly introduced at page 105 and the death of the title occurs at page 131. This may annoy some people. The previous 130 pages were certainly interesting even if death free.
The snippets of history thrown in to this book were fascinating - I loved learning more about Shakespeare's life, and the theater craft, too. It was a really good blend of the past and the present (well, the recent past?) in a mystery that I didn't figure out until the end.
Uma delícia!
This is the book that introduces Peregrine Jay and how he became the manager of the Dolphin Theater.
This is one of my favorite Alleyn books, partly because of the theater background and also the characters.
Jay waxes eloquent about his love for the Dolphin and Shakespeare, and Conducis later decides to renovate the theater and put Jay in charge of it.
When the night guard at the Dolphin theater is killed just when Jay's play is going well in the renovated theater, Inspector Alleyn is called in.
This is my second read through of this amazing book.
It's so rich, such a deep story with beautiful characters, written so well, a second read is necessary to take it all in.
An entire year has passed in the story before we even see our beloved Super, and then only for a few pages.
We're nearly halfway through the book before he makes his true entrance, and what an entrance it is.
The mystery is so involved it took me completely by surprise the first time.
The second read gave me the chance to take in the pathos of the motivations.
Take your time with it.
Another theatre setting, which do seem to be Marsh's best repeat settings. Time does pass for Alleyn and Fox. Fox's hair is described as "grizzled", but Roderick is always dashing and impressive in stature. Marsh even inserts a character from the Surfeit of Lamprey's book, which was #10 in her series and 20 years chronologically before this one, according to a comment Fox makes to Alleyn. Always enjoyable.
I enjoy this series, but this book is not as good as some of the others. All of them can take a little effort to read because they are written in the 50's and 60's, set mostly in England, so the language takes some thinking. This one is more difficult than most because of a lot of theater references and phrases used at that time.
Short answer - I liked it. I didn't love it. But at least this time, I didn't wish the young lovers out of the story. The murderer's method is revealed quite early through the line of questioning, which takes some of the mystery out of it, and his identity is quite guessable. The cast is much better than in the night at the Vulcan, and the whole story, while not brilliant, is still enjoyable.
This book started off really strong, with some odd incidents and lots of questions. Somewhere along the way my attention began to wane a bit as some events dragged on just a bit too long. The end wasn't as well done as some of Marsh's previous works... it was something of a disappointment, actually. All things considered, I liked this book but didn't love it.
Really entertaining characters, fun misleading red herrings, but I was a bit puzzled by the reveal - the untangling of who pushed who and fell down where is pretty reliant on a clear visualization of the theatre/lobby layout and I would've liked a little map or drawing.
This one had a different structure, and I quite liked it. The audiobook performance had some moments that were painful.
Amusing
Very slow, very strange and the murder seemed almost incidental. But Marsh loved the theatre.
4, except for the difficulty of the homophobic attitudes all round.
Never read this author, but comes highly recommended. Pretty erudite language; took some concentration.
This is one of my favorite of the series.
That's a bit surprising since Alleyn doesn't show up till about half way through and Troy isn't in it at all.
But the real main character, Peregrine Jay, is wonderfully real and very likable.
Also, this book takes full advantage of Marsh's experience in the theater as Jay writes, hires, and produces a play during this book.
The main actors in the play manage to escape typecasting, which is also good.Add in a touch of romance, an abandoned theater, a Gatsby-like millionaire and a mystery revolving around Shakespeare's personal life and you have an excellent story.
Originally published on my blog here in May 1999.In Death at the Dolphin we return to familiar Ngaio Marsh territory, and to a higher standard of writing, after a sequence containing some of her worst novels.
Like some of the best of her earlier works, Death at the Dolphin is set in the London theatre world, or rather, Marsh's slightly fanciful, old-fashioned version of it.
But then disaster strikes, as an apparent robbery goes badly wrong with the murder of the night watchman and serious injury to the child actor playing Hamnet Shakespeare.Death at the Dolphin is something of an exception to the general rules that tend to govern the quality of Marsh's novels.
I'm all for some scene setting before the murder and the appearance of the detective, but this was too much.
Marsh puts her obsession with the theatre to good use in this one, for she can squeeze more oddball characters into a square inch than usual when her 'closed circle' is of theatre people.
Glove and theatre are both owned by an eccentric reclusive millionaire, who sets the place up for Jay Peregrine, the director, after Peregrine has a most unpleasant accident, nearly drowning in a flooded part of the old theatre.
The actors in the cast are describing love triangles all over the place; Jay's room-mate, Jeremy, is a designer who covets the glove; motives abound, and we heave a monstrous great sigh of relief when Rory Alleyn arrives on the scene to sort things out.
I loved Peregrine Jay, the young playwright and director, and his friend Jeremy (a designer) and the girl he's falling in love with, Emily (a young actress).
Emily is the only sympathetically-presented woman, and she exists only to give Peregrine a love interest (she doesn't get development of her own).
And the amount of time Peregrine and Jeremy spend speculating over whether Conducis is queer - ultimately deciding "no homo!!!", and later borne out by the narrative giving him a random inexplicable hetero entanglement that goes against his character development - is unfortunate.
This unpleasant event leads the owner to change his mind about demolishing the building and instead it is restored to its former glory and its first play is one especially written by Peregrine himself.
Unfortunately the caretaker is murdered and a glove thought to have belonged to Shakespeare’s son which was on display at the theatre is apparently stolen.
Roderick Alleyn who had overseen security arrangements at the theatre is called in to investigate the murder which proves to be complex.
I really enjoyed reading it and trying to work out who was responsible for the murder and the robbery.
