https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/411053.Better_Homes_and_Gardens_New_Cook_Book
Hands down, my most-used cookbook.
It was the first cookbook I bought when I got my first apartment.
I was poor and opted for the mass-market paperback version and over the past 30 years it has disintegrated.
I recently decided to replace it with a fancy, shiny new spiral bound copy.
It looks pretty and it's okay but in my opinion, it's not as good as my old one.
Many of my favorite recipes are missing so it sits on the shelf.
I take down my battered old faithful, held together with packing tape and a rubber band, and find the recipe I need.
Best cookbook for beginners. It has all the classic instructions and recipes that a new cook needs. A MUST have in any kitchen. The 3-ring binder version is by far the best.
I have finally decided to get rid of this book.
For the last month I've been using it to hold down the lid of my dog's dry food container so she won't get into it because the latch is broken.
I kept wanting this to be a good, useful go-to book like our old Good Housekeeping Illustrated Cookbook that we've had all my life (and that got used so much it's completely falling apart), but everytime I try to use this book I'm disappointed.
It's got good ideas, but the recipes are NOT good imo.
So finally, I'm tossing it, or more likely donating it to the Friend's of the Library.
I've found the majority of recipes in this new edition bland and flavorless, totally unlike my mom's edition from the late 60's.
The low-fat, low-salt movement has taken its toll on this classic kitchen staple.
For what it's worth, I cook with as little salt as I can get away with, but when you don't put any salt at all into a pie crust - eww.My suggestion is to search Goodwill or second-hand book stores for one of those earlier editions.
You can always adjust the ingredients to suit a special diet.Also - whatever happened to the ingredient substitutions list that was in the back cover?
I was going to purchase this cookbook for my son last year for his birthday, because my copy has our family favourite "Hot Milk Sponge Cake" recipe in it, a classic that Better Homes has had in its index since it began. To my surprise, I discovered that the recipe no longer was carried, since 2008! Pity, since it is super easy, can be doubled and is a moist and lovely cake better than any boxed mix. Cookbooks may try to revise to keep up with the times, but editor judgement isn't necessarily a good cook.

It's not quite as good as having her in the kitchen with me, but the recipes remind me of childhood: 3-bean salad, cowboy coffee cake, corn chowder, snickerdoodles, spanish rice and all the candy and canning recipes My Mom has a knack for and I usually don't have the guts to try on my own.
It's like looking through some of My Mom's old editions.The thing about the book is that all the things it's really good to know are in there from how many teaspoons are in a tablespoon (3) to what to substitute if your recipe calls for baking powder and you happen to be out.
Especially "Black Beans and Corn with Salsa Dressing."
This is my go to book for baking, it has the best recipes for peanut butter cookies, ginger snaps, and fruit crisps. It also is a great cook book to have if you don't want to have 10 cook books (like I do) and it has enough of a variety to be your "only" cookbook, as these are tried and true recipes. The one downfall is that it doesn't have many ethnic or alternative (non-meat) recipes, so you'll have to go elsewhere for that.
My grandmother had one, my mother had one, my aunts had one (each), I had one - it was a traditional wedding present, my sister has one, sisters-in-law have one, I have one now, my daughter will have one again - she lost mine so that means the owner of the last house she lived in has one...Below it asks what the date is this book was finished being read - are you kidding - not for four generations that I know of yet.
I have had multiple copies of this book over the years, occasionally changing editions for updated recipes. It has always been a favorite.
This cookbook is excellent for a beginner cook.
It explains the basics.
I also have to admit that I love my 1970 edition better than the newer version.
For me they were the beginning of cooking on my own.
I now have many cookbooks and have evolved in my culinary skills.
Just like fashion in clothes, fashion in food evolves constantly.
I still refer to the Better Homes and Gardens Cook Book for weights and measures and how many cups are in 4 ounces for example and thermometer readings for meats and many other inquiries I may have.
I had a Better Homes & Gardens cookbook for about 35 years and it was stained & dog eared and my bible for roasting meats & poultry.
So I went out and bought a new copy and tossed old faithful away.
The new book didn't have my old favorite recipes and to add insult to injury, the cover's rivets promptly fell out and the whole thing fell apart.
I just wanted a nice clean copy of my old friend and now I just wish I had kept my messy one (who's cover was still solidly attached) .
This was my mom’s go-to cookbook when I was growing up. From it, I baked all of my first pies and quick breads when I was learning to cook as a young adult. It has some useful references (like how long to cook meat, measuring conversions, etc.). While I don’t cook these recipes all that frequently now, my cookbook collection wouldn’t feel complete without the trademark white and red checkered cover.
Most of the recipies are fine, but a few times I've tried to make a breakfast dish and the oven temperature or baking time is WAY off, enough so that I got frustrated continuing to buy ingredients and make things for my family from this book that I let my golden retriever shred it.
My most used cookbook, EVER. Though the recipes are simple, pretty much anything I can think of to cook or bake is in there. I recently had to buy a new copy since my first one was literally falling apart!
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/13243166
Very nice cookbook
Best cookbook ever.
My all time favorite cookbook...but I have a 30 year old version. Love the old school recipes. Tonight: homemade pound cake!
I've had this book since the 1981 edition came out and still use it occasionally even though it's falling apart. Also, I loathe cooking.
Of all my cookbooks - and I LOVE cookbooks!!
- I would have thought this would be one of my favorites.
Not even close.
There are very few recipes in this book that I have made more than once.
For example, don't even bother with the banana muffins.
They tasted like a big lump of baking soda.
Way too salty and no flavor at all.
I won't bother making them again.
All in all, I don't recommend this one, particularly to beginner cooks.
You'll never want to learn to cook if you try these crappy recipes first.
This was THE cook book in my mother's kitchen. The brownie recipe is everyone's old favorite just the way it is. I remember leafing through it on quiet days and imagining the meals I could cook. I don't currently own a copy, but I should add it to my collection.
Great for a beginner with explanations of techniques and terms at the beginning. The book has been in family for ages though I have a later edition than the one my mother used.Very simple and easy to follow. General over all.
I like the glossy photos, but prefer the recipes in the older version.
A great updated version of an old standard. My favorite cookbook. I just have 2.
Great book
I have the 15th edition spiral bound book from 2010. This is an old standby cookbook for all cooks. There is just about any basic recipe in this book.
Was a wedding gift. Great book with wonderful helpful tips and recipes.
Good for basic information.
One of my most favorite cookbooks!
