https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2602069-teachings-of-presidents-of-the-church
I enjoyed the lesson on Sunday about trials. I certainly have mine. Joseph Smith must have been pretty amazing to get up and preach a sermon and baptize 3 people after a night of being beaten, tarred, and feathered. I don't know that I would be up to that. But I guess I can get back up and keep trying when I have trials, the way he did. And keep praying!!!!
Loved what was there. Would have liked more detail, but that's probably beyond the scope of this book's purpose.
Really enjoyed reading this!
I read this book to fulfil the goal read a book by or about a martyr. it is part of his teachings and part of his life history. it can be found for free on the gospel library app put out by the church of jesus christ of latter day saints.
Stories of faith that endures persecution. I have loved the stories of these remarkable modern prophets, and Joseph Smith was unique, having started it all.
Non Member reviewI read this because I wanted to know more. I have learned a great deal. May those who read this and The Book of Mormon be richly blessed.
Reread rhe whole book. What wonderful truths. What a wonderful man
There are many testimonies of important men who knew Joseph and were related to him.
I have been to his boyhood home in Palmyra, New York, and experienced the sacred and peaceful Sacred Grove where he saw God the Father and His Son, Jesus Christ.
I have also been to the Grandin Press in Palmyra where the Book of Mormon was printed.
I felt the spirit there too -- a witness that Joseph was a prophet of the living God and that the Book of Mormon was true as well as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Good collection of Joseph Smith's thought, selected and organized around some key topics of interest to the current LDS Churh leadership.I serve in Primary so don't attend regular priesthood meeting sessions where the book is used as a text.
My reaction on reading it was - Joseph Smith is remarkably clear and accessible, when comopared against other 19th century thinker/writers of his time (e.g., Jefferson, Lincoln, Emerson, etc.).
Cowdery's description is much more typical of how I think of 19th century writers - less direct, more flowery and ornamented, more emotionally based.
If you don't know it's true, you haven't really truly checked.
If you haven't checked, maybe you're scared it might be true.
As Joseph Smith is quoted as saying in this church manual, "[Mormonism takes] a deep hold in the hearts and affections of all those who are noble-minded enough to lay aside the prejudice of education, and investigate the subject with candor and honesty." I don't think many people can lay aside what they have "learned" and know for themselves.
I don't think many people have such candor and honesty of soul.
We've finished studying Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith this year.
We have used this book as a core devotional book for religious studies.
I have to say, there is a lot of information in this book.
My children and I found new nuggets of information, topics to discuss, and new understanding to add to our every day lives.I highly recommend this book for all people who wish to understand Joseph Smith's teachings and/or wish to know more about the LDS or Mormon church.
The core beliefs and principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ that he taught are clearly explained in this book.
Its strengths are probably: the breadth of the teachings included, the attempt to contextualize them historically; and the lack of "Mormon-only" cultural jargon.
Also worth noting is that I actually got to see an early copy of this, a year or three before it was actually published.
The original copy was much shorter -- more in line with the other books in the series -- and I think they were wiser to expand it.
The task of choosing which teachings and which historical events to include must have been daunting.
I have read it in its entirety over the past two years as we studied it in Relief Society.
I enjoyed reading it and I also found the questions at the back of each chapter very insightful.
On the surface the book may seem repetitious of doctrines already known and the questions may seem rote, but for me, I found new insights and knowledge as I read the text.
I also found that the questions could be answered on two levels--a surface level and then a deeper more complex level.
This has been a good two years of study for me which I have benefited from.
LDS.org has the mp3 files for free so having this on my iPod is very neat lets me keep up with the class.The manual is an easy informative read and has a lesson preperation section at the end of each chapter.
ITunes has an application with all of the standerd works and the lesson manuals for free!
I love using the itouch version because I can make the print very large.
If you are an iPhone or iPod touch owner I highly recommend you pick this app up.Regardless of the format of you Joseph Smith lesson manual you'll enjoy the content.
Everyone in the world should read this.
It would open their eyes to where we come from, where we are going after our spirit leaves this body, and what it will be like.
He was the first prophet chosen to Restore the Kingdom of God for the last time before the second coming.
He Restored it April 6, 1830.
Fifteen prophets have succeeded him.
Read the Book Of Mormon and have an open mind and heart and pray to God for the truth of it, and you will know for yourself.
I say this in the name of Jesus Christ.
I am grateful for my membership in the Church; and my testimony of it's divinity hinges upon the simple story of the lad under the trees kneeling and receiving heavenly visitors- not one God, but two separate, individual personages, the Father and the Son, revealing again to the earth the personages of the Godhead. My faith and testimony hinge upon this simple story, for if it is not true, Mormonism falls. If it is true- and I bear witness that it is- it is one of the greatest single events in all history.- President Howard W. Hunter
Joseph Smith was such a hero, in my eyes! Accepting the call that he didn't know the magnitude of, and growing with all of its requirements, enduring external persecution, and overcoming the various deaths of his loved ones, and receiving divine revelations, while translating ancient scripture; and being willing to share, with humility, all that life has taught him, while sharing with the saints what God wanted them to know; are some of the things that I read about in this book; I am so glad to have it in my collection.
This is the first book that I have read about Joseph Smith, so far, and I have been a member all my life! This is a great combination of stories from his life, excerpts from letters he has written, excerpts from the revelations he received (also found in the Doctrine and Covenants), and excerpts from the journals of the saints who herd him speak. What a testimony to the truthfulness that he was a prophet!
Last year and this year we have been studying this book in Relief Society/Priesthood Meetings. There are a lot of lessons that I have missed reading from beginning to end, and I'm tempted to start over from the beginning, but it is great! This book is broken up into themed chapters as it is used in a class setting, rather than chronologically.
It's nice to learn more about the man who found his own way (spiritually) before God and taught others to do likewise. Five stars for content. Minus one star for the non-sequitur integration of quotes and sources, some third-hand. These *are* all thoroughly referenced, however, in the (often overlooked) chapter notes.
Nice to read many of the Prophet Joseph Smith's thoughts on basic church doctrine. It would be interesting to read directly in the History of the Church.I feel funny rating church books (since there is an inherent bias and since I'm only reading for knowledge vs pleasure) so if anyone knows how to abstain from voting without affecting the rating let me know.
I loved being able to read more of Joseph Smith's quotes and the recollections that others had of him. There are truly some great nuggets that really deepened my understanding about some topics. While reading this and learning more about the Prophet's life and the historical background, he really began feeling more real to me than ever.
I love this book and am grateful for the history and teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith. It has probably taken me longer to read this book than any other book I remember reading. I think that was, in part, because I was not yet ready to learn some of the teachings therein until relatively recently. I highly recommend it to all seekers of truth.
i learned so much about this awesome man! my appreciation has abounded exponentially. I'm so grateful for his courage, faith, trust and love of the Lord to help restore the true church of God. how prepared he was to listen and receive revelation and guidance from our Lord. I've learn a lot about strength and what it truly means to be an instrument in the Lords hands.
This is a good book for anyone interested in an overview of Joseph Smith's actual teachings (Joseph Smith was the founder, or restorer, of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints - or Mormons). It was church sponsored, and is generally available free or for only a few dollars. It lacks the depth of the older Teachings of Joseph Smith book, and is organized topically.
This book is really cool I wish I could read books in a day, but then I would comprehend vary little of it. I have only read parts of it, only chapters 27, 41,45 in my personal study. I have to figure out how to make all my studies fit in my time. It will be cool when I do.
I love this book. I had the privilege to teach from this book for Relief Society lessons for two years. I am amazed at the breadth of Knowledge Joseph Smith had. I felt I learned so much in that two years.
This book is for anyone who wants to know the true thinking of the Prophet of the Restoration. Down to earth and steeped in gospel principles. How could you not appreciate his contribution to history and religion and ultimately, or salvation.
I was expecting a lot of the same stories you always hear about his life. I was pleasantly surprised by a lot of the quotes and I thought the lessons were put together in a very appealing way- kind of a fresh outlook on topics we talk a lot about.
I was grateful for the chance to study about Joseph Smith and his teachings. Some of the material in the book is not public or readily available. I truly feel like I have a better testimony of the Prophet Joseph now.
