https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17125.One_Day_in_the_Life_of_Ivan_Denisovich
But you have done something magical in ONE DAY IN THE LIFE OF IVAN DENISOVICH that eclipsed this reader's ignorance: you have transmuted what it was like to live a life day-in and day-out in much the same fashion.
This ability to create (which you lived for a time) a life of perpetual recycling was heartbreaking, and so real that it made me think of not only Russian dissidents (political or otherwise), but of all the people incarcerated now in prisons, relationships (marriages, dating), loneliness, jobs, or, to a certain degree, aimless lives.
To think that every morning is going to be bleak when one awaits sleep, mortified and numbed and haunted my thoughts as I read this novel.
Little did it matter to Harry Martinson that his genius epic poem Aniara: An Epic Science Fiction Poem spoke for his worthiness as a Nobel Laureate, the bad press that followed the announcement ruined his mental health.In the case of Solzhenitsyn, the attention he received internationally after the award quite literally threatened his physical well-being and his ability to live and write in the country he considered his home, despite its oppression and cruelty.His most well-known work, describing one single day in the life of an inmate in a Soviet Gulag, quite miraculously was approved for publication in the Soviet Union in 1962, and played a major role in the decision to award Solzhenitsyn the Nobel Prize in 1970.As a harrowing, cold, sharp witness account of the suffering of Gulag prisoners, it is a document of universal importance.
he got extra food time and time again,he didn't get caught with his secret contraband, he networked and got some karma for future favors in his karma bank, he got some smokes and was recognized for his hard work, and he had a fever, which had to be good for keeping him a little warmer than those people who didn't have fevers.
well, that's my little secret.still and all - i feel like karen brissetova's day was more exhausting and less rewarding overall.and i don't even get to see any snow.snow, sausage, and cigarettes sound pretty good to me, man.come to my blog!
I want to appreciate life the way Ivan Denisovich Shukov does.I want to take pride in my work; I want to taste every bite of sausage, suck the marrow out of every fish bone, enjoy every puff of every cigarette, bask in a sunset, watch the moon cross the sky, fall asleep content; I want to focus on the necessities of living; I want to focus on life, but I have too much.
It's not much compared to most everyone I know, but it is still too much.
And because it is too much I can't appreciate life the way Ivan Denisovich Shukov does.
Odin den Ivana Denisovicha = One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich, Aleksandr SolzhenitsynOne Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich, is a novel by Russian writer Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, first published in November 1962 in the Soviet literary magazine Novy Mir (New World). The story is set in a Soviet labor camp in the 1950s and describes a single day in the life of ordinary prisoner, Ivan Denisovich Shukhov.عنوانها: یک روز از زندگی ایوان دنیسوویچ؛ یک روز از زندگی ایوان دنیسویچ؛ یک روزِ ایوان دنیسو
The story is set in a Soviet labor camp in the 1950s and describes a single day in the life of ordinary prisoner, Ivan Denisovich Shukhov.عنوانها: یک روز از زندگی ایوان دنیسوویچ؛ یک روز از زندگی ایوان دنیسویچ؛ یک روزِ ایوان دنیسوویچ؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و یکم ماه فوریه سال 1972 میلادیعنوان: یک روز از زندگی ایوان دنیسوویچ؛ نویسنده: الکساندر سولژنیتسین؛ مترجم: جواد میرکریمی؛ تهران، صبح امروز، 1343؛ در 166 ص؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان روسیه - سده 20 معنوان: یک روز از زندگی ایوان دنیسویچ؛ نویسنده: الکساندر سولژنیتسین؛ مترجم: هوشنگ حافظی پور؛ تهران، دریا، 1350؛ در 236 ص؛؛عنوان: یک روزِ ایوان دنیسوویچ؛ نویسنده: الکساندر سولژنیتسین؛ مترجم: رضا فرخفال؛ تهران، فاریاب، 1363؛ در 230 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، نشر کوچک، 1388؛ در 191 ص؛ شابک: 9789645589460؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، نشر ماهی؛ 1394، در 206 ص؛ شابک: 9789642092208؛ عنوان: یک روز از زندگی ایوان دنیسویچ؛ نویسنده: الکساندر سولژنیتسین؛ مترجم: فهیمه توزنده جانی؛ تهران، تندیس، 1390؛ در 177 ص؛ شابک: 9786001820526؛نخستین بار در نوامبر سال 1962 میلادی، در مجله ادبی «نوی میر (دنیای نو)»، در شوروی سابق منتشر شد.
لكم أن تتخيلوا أن يكون حد طوحات الإنسان في تلك الظروف هو الحصول على عصيدة إضافية في الغداء ، أو الحصول على عقب سيجارة ، أو عظام سمكة تغوص في قعر الإناء ، اي ان غاية أهداف المعتقل في معسكرات الأعمال الشاقة تتمثل في تنفيذ الأوامر والتقيد بها كي يكون في حل عن الاهانة او الضرب او الاعتقال الاضافي كي يملأ بطنه بمزيد من الطعام .انها يوميات عادية لأحد السجناء في معسكرات الغولاغ لسجون غير عادية تفوق في بشاعتها تصورات الكثيرين .
أين ؟؟- معتقلات الغولاغ .؟- غلافنايا اوبرافلينية اسبرافيتلنيا ترودفيخ أي ( الإدارة الرئيسية لمعسكرات الإصلاح والعمل ) و التي أطلق عليها اسم معسكرات الرعب و الموت.متى ؟- جوزيف فيساريونوفيتش ستالين !!بمعنى ؟؟- شبكة من المعتقلات و المعسكرات أنشأها الحزب الشيوعي الستاليني بهدف تطهير الولاء و الإنتماء لستالين، من معارضين، خونة، إرهابيين، موالين لأعداء الحزب و أيضا من أجل اعتقال كل فئات الشعب سواء كانوا متّهمين أو غير متّهمين، إنّها الديكتاتورية في أبهى حللها .هل من الممكن أن تشرح أكثر ؟- شملت الاعتقالات كل فئات الشعب ولم يكن الانتماء للحزب والولاء لستالين نفسه يقي صاحبه من حملة التطهير والإرسال إلى معسكرات الاعتقال (الغولاغ ) التي ضمت كل من يتم تصنيفه بوصفه احد " أعداء الثورة وخونتها" في أجهزة الدولة وصفوف الجيش الأحمر والحزب.
Moral of this Tale: No matter your socioeconomic position in life, or the degree of happiness in it, hard WORK is just the thing to let the hours sift on by...The book that caused such a general sensation back then is but a significant albeit very tiny beep on the literature radar now. The smallness made big by elegant & overexpressive prose is a sight to behold, but not, alas, a true wonder to read.
اما من برای چه اینجایم؟ فقط به خاطر نداشتن آمادگی در جنگ 1941؟ فقط به همین دلیل؟ گناه من چیست؟"
رواية صادمة مليئة بالألم والواقعية أجاد فيها الكاتب وصف مشاعر البطل دون تطويل أو مط كما هو الحال في كثير من الروايات الروسية الحديثة و التي يتجاوز بعضها الألف صفحة
This copy, for example, is "THE COMPLETE, UNEXPURGATED TRANSLATION BY RONALD HINGLEY AND MAX HAYWARD." One Day is "A SHATTERING PORTRAIT OF LIFE INSIDE STALINIST RUSSA.' It is also: "the terrifying story of an almost unbelievable man-made hell--the Soviet work camps--and of one man's heroic struggle to survive in the face of the most determined efforts to destroy him--a scathing indictment of Communist tyranny that has shaken the whole Soviet world."My edition also, conveniently, includes Solzhenitsyn's "now-classic letter of protest against censorship." The author himself spent eight years in these labor camps, and three more years in exile, all for the crime of making derogatory comments about Stalin in a letter to a friend.I was bemused by the shrieking of the book cover, but you understand that I began the story of Ivan Denisovich with the understanding that I would be led to dark places.
that day, some people drink their first beer or have their first kiss kissedthat day, some people wr
Reading about the grueling conditions of a Soviet gulag made my daily worries seem trivial.The novel is set in Stalin's Russia of the 1950s and follows the prisoner Shukhov from the moment he wakes up at 5 a.m. to when he finally goes to bed after laboring all day.
Faced with being shot or doing hard labor, he signed a confession to spare his life.Shukhov has already served eight years and knows how to survive in prison.
According to the introduction, Solzhenitsyn himself had served eight years in a Russian concentration camp, reportedly for making a derogatory remark about Stalin.
Totalitarian communism could produce some harsh results.Such is the succinct message sent by Soviet writer Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn in his 1962 publication One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich.
First published in the Soviet journal Novy Mir, and then later translated into many, many languages including English, Solzhenitsyn uses severe realism to describe conditions in a Soviet political prisoner camp.Literally telling a twenty-four hour period in the life of the camp, we follow various characters throughout the brutally cold day.
"“Can a man who's warm understand one who's freezing?”  What I have to say might spoil the book. And so here are two quotes from two other Nobel laureates, the first describes the book well enough and the second is in case you feel depressed after on condition of humanity after reading it:Writer " cannot put himself today in the service of those who make history; he is at the service of those who suffer it."-Albert Camus“You can cut all the flowers but you cannot keep Spring from coming.” ― Pab
"“Can a man who's warm understand one who's freezing?” 
What I have to say might spoil the book. And so here are two quotes from two other Nobel laureates, the first describes the book well enough and the second is in case you feel depressed after on condition of humanity after reading it:Writer " cannot put himself today in the service of those who make history; he is at the service of those who suffer it."-Albert Camus“You can cut all the flowers but you cannot keep Spring from coming.” ― Pablo Neruda
Curiously both writers end up as nationalists (view spoiler)[ sending Solzhenitsyn to the USA was possibly a crueller blow to the man than sending him to Siberia seeing as his response was to live behind a stockade protected against his new neighbours (hide spoiler)], the question for every reader to find their own answer to is whether that is despite or because of their prison experiences?One of my old lecturers, a gloriously opinionated old woman who would occasionally wear horse brasses as though she was the embodiment of the rural response to the Beastie Boys, was of the opinion that One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich was not only the best work of Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn from a literary point of view but also one that had been much improved in the process of being translated into English.
احسب إننا كقراء شعرنا به وكأنه دهرا لما في اليوم من أعباء رهيبة على السجين أن يحتملها فمابالك بمن عاشها فعلا ولفترة طويلة من الوقت !الرواية ملحمة الحياة اليومية القاسية التي أعدتها روسيا لمعارضيها في معسكرات العمل في سيبيريا تتقاطع مع يوميات دستوفسكي ذكريات في بيت الموتى لكنها تختلف كلية في طريقة السرد وتبتعد عن الدخول في سريرة السجناء والسجانين ونفسياتهم ..
إيفان لم يفقد إنسانيته في مواجهة أهوال معسكرات ستالين فنجده يمد يده لكل من استطاعت يده أن تصلها حريص على الجماعة والتي تدعمه بدورها وتناضل بروح اليد الواحدة النضال من أجل اللقمة كان مخيف جدا ، يجب أن تكون محتالا لتعيش !
The injustice of the system is paled against the suffering inflicted in the camp, being worked at hard labor in freezing conditions, without proper clothing, with little food, and without any possibility of escape or rescue.Perhaps the saddest thing is that prisoners become used to this life and come to value the small bits of joy they can squeeze from a crust of bread or a tobacco butt passed to them by a more fortunate inmate.
And yet, that is what speaks to the spark of humanity that even these kinds of conditions cannot stifle...where there is hope there is life, without it how could any of them endure even a "good" day.
عنوان الرواية يبدو وكأنه لا يعدنا بأي مفاجئات، فيوم كامل من حياة رجل ما تبدو فكرة مطروقة كثيراً، ولكن عندما تكون المفارقة في أن هذا الرجل لا يمتلك يومه، فيوم إيفان دينيسوفيتش ليس له، لقد استولت عليه الدولة، بحيث صار إيفان يعيش اليوم كله ما بين مشاعر متقلبة، خوف دائم، قلق، ملاحقة لأدق وأبسط التفاصيل المعيشية، عندما كنت اقرأ تاريخ ستالين ما قبل الثورة، ذكر المؤلف أنه عانى تجربة الاعتقال والنفي مراراً، ولكن تلك التجارب لم تكن سوى إجازات طويلة يعيشها الرجل الثوري في قرى منسية، حيث لا شيء يفعله سوى القراءة المكثفة، وإغواء النساء والتخطيط للهرب، هذه التجارب هي ما جعله عندما جاء دوره ليزج بمعارضيه في السجون يلجأ إلى إشغالهم بهذه المعتقلات التي تستهلك الإنسان تماماً، تشغله بالعمل، بمطاردة أبسط احتياجاته، تشغله بالخوف من كل شيء، بالخوف من المستقبل، حيث يمكن بكل بساطة أن تنتهي السنوات العشر التي حكم بها على شوخوف ليقال له "هاك عشر سنوات أخرى"، والخوف من الخروج من المعتقل إلى عالم جديد، لا يعرفه، ولا يعلم ماذا يصنع به، والخوف قبل هذا كله من عشرة أيام في الزنزانة الانفرادية على أي خطأ يقع منه، حيث سيأكله الجوع والبرد.
the guy in this book is in prison for some stuff he probably didn't do and I can relate to that because i probably didn't do all the shit they say i did all the time.
also just a little thing but guys if you are going to write a novel have a name you can pronounce, even if i liked this i couldnt tell anyone he should have called him self Alex Sol that would have been a good cool name so that will be wy this book is unknown to any person that is not a teacher
Δύσκολα θα αποδεχτείς ότι το βιβλίο αυτό περιγράφει μόνο μια μέρα από την ζωή στα σταλινικά γκουλάγκ! Και τρομακτικό το γεγονός ότι χαρακτηρίζεται από τον ίδιο τον κρατούμενο  ως "μια σχεδόν ευτυχισμένη ημέρα". Ανησυχώ για αυτά που θα συναντήσω στο Αρχιπέλαγος Γκουλάγκ...
Solzhenitsyn, a 44-year-old mathematics teacher in the old Russian town of Ryazan who spent eight years in Stalinís concentration camps writes his first literary work, and what a memorable one it turns out to be.
It's the simple story of One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich, and there is hardly a detail in Solzhenitsyn's story which, in itself is new.
His crime was to escape from the Germans who took him prisoner in 1943 and return to his own lines.
By telling the truth he was sentenced to a concentration camp as a spy.
Single Quote Review: Macbeth’s self-justifications were feeble—and his conscience devoured him. Yes, even Iago was a little lamb too. The imagination and the spiritual strength of Shakespeare’s evildoers stopped short at a dozen corpses. Because they had no ideology.
Who needs air conditioning when there is this book? I could feel the chill of the Siberian winter even if at home I am struggling with 38 degrees celsius.
Shukhov looked up at the sky and gasped - the sun had climbed almost to the dinner hour. Wonder of wonders! How time flew when you were working! That was something he'd often noticed. The days rolled by in the camp - they were over before you could say "knife." But the years, they never rolled by; they never moved by a second. This is the reality of prison-camp life: the days, colourless, marked only by toil and the struggle to survive, pass on in a jiffy; but there is no termination to the end
This is the reality of prison-camp life: the days, colourless, marked only by toil and the struggle to survive, pass on in a jiffy; but there is no termination to the endless procession of the hours.
This is his first novel, written based on his labour camp experiences.Ivan Denisovich Shukhov is serving a sentence of ten years for the crime of spying on Russia for Germans - a trumped-up charge, but something he willingly accepted as an alternative to being shot.
One at a time.This short novel has been written by one such prisoner who survived - and went on to become a literary icon.
One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovitch is a fascinating story in light of its historical context.
While reading the book I had a hard time reminding myself that this story didn't take place in some nineteenth century prison, but in the nineteen fifties.
The life that these men live is hard, grueling, and for that Ivan describes his day as a good one.
One in three thousand six hundred and fifty three days of his sentence.
You can imagine making it through one day, even a month of horrible days.
That makes it sink in.
Foreword--One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich
Bitterly cold wind whips all around me! One of the most chilling book I have ever read."The belly is a demon. It doesn't remember how well you treated it yesterday; it'll cry out for more tomorrow."-Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn
Since it's a 50 year old classic, I'm not going to worry about spoilers in my review nor do I think they can do anything to harm even a first reading of this novel & may even help.It's moving as the obvious denunciation of the Soviet system, a distorted version of communism that eventually collapsed under its own inefficiencies & excesses.
Hopefully he has less than 2 years to go, but he barely let's himself hope that he'll be that lucky.The corruption & inefficiencies of the system are well shown in day's work detail.
Solzhenitsyn wrote a really good novella that effectively showed the horrendous life of people in the forced labor camps run by the Soviet government.
He showed the dreariness and sameness of the days, which must have led to so much boredom and even mental breakdowns.
He allowed the reader to feel the cold seep into their bones.
He made me hungry.
I was completely immersed in the story and longing for a way to break the pattern.
And then as the book wound to an end he brilliantly told of the thousands of days left to live in the hellish place!
