https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67697.Fire_from_Heaven
”He is like the great, the famous ones; like Lais or Rhodope or Theodotis they tell tales of in those old days.
They don’t live for love, you know; but they live upon it.
I can tell you, I have seen, they are the very blood of his body, all those men who he knows would run after him through fire.
If ever the day comes when they will follow him no longer, it will be the same with him as with some great hetaira when they lovers leave her door and she puts away her mirror.
He will begin to die.” Al
Alexander is a boy, a long ways from the young man who will conquer the world in his twenties.
There is one scene where Alexander has given a girl named Gorgo some violets because he likes her, only to have his impressions of her dashed almost immediately.
In the patch of light, the girl Gorgo faced towards him, wriggling and squirming in the arms of a man who stood behind him, one dark square hairy hand squeezing her groin and the other her breast.
Much of what we know about Alexander was written long after his death, but the relationships between Philip, Olympias, and Alexander are well documented.

Everything we know about the great warrior and conquerer, and one of the greatest strategist in world history comes from later sources for any contemporary to him testimonies didn’t survive.
He happened to be there, as he happened to have a ball handy if Alexander wanted a game, or water if he was thirsty; not by calculation, but in a constant awareness by which no smallest trifle was missed.Most facts evoked here were known to me already but I liked the way Renault wove this tale, how she bridged the gaps where no sources remained and how she conjured image of the boy who in the future was to conquer half of the ancient world.
I appreciated the careful attention to his sexuality, dealing with Alexander's relationships and his own feelings about sex while at the same time balancing all of that with respect to the historical time period and what sexual and gender roles were possible at the time.
Still, I could see how readers wanted more from that and how we ended up with great feminist retellings of Greek myths.Alexander's parents come off as real complicated pieces of work, pulling him in different directions with their machinations.
Alexander the Great lived only thirty-two years (356 - 323 BC), but in that time he attained a stature unequaled in ancient history.
In Gore Vidal’s novel Julian, the Emperor Julian dreams of being the first to surpass Alexander’s victories in Persia, since in the seven hundred years after Alexander’s reign, none of the great Roman generals had done so.Mary Renault begins her series of novels based on the life of this fabled character with Fire From Heaven.
In the Author’s Note, Renault acknowledges that there are no contemporaneous sources for Alexander’s life, and for his boyhood, the only reference is Plutarch, who lived a few hundred years later.
I’ve noted how historical fiction, like sci-fi or fantasy, takes this to an extreme by depositing us in a world for which our frames of reference are at best theoretical and we are uniquely at the mercy of the author for our ability to understand and appreciate what is going on around us.
Renault, however, is able to make me feel like I *am* immersed in the world of ancient Greece without filling up my brain with details and minutiae that tend more to distract from than to add to the verisimilitude.
People who are familiar with Alexander and the ins and outs of his life (and the war time exploits of his father) will LOVE this.Writing style was also VERY difficult to adjust to.
Just as I "got it", I found my interest in the story waning (there's an incredible amount of discussion about the myriad of wars and political machinations of King Phillip) and I'd set the book aside for a month.It didn't help that there were SO MANY characters, many of whom appear then are never seen again.
Recommended if you like your novels a slow, subtle build and if you are an Alexander aficionado.I don't know if I can muster a full review.
I’ve read Mary Renault before – The King Must Die and The Bull From the Sea; engrossing tales based on the legend of the Greek hero Theseus but grounded in a more historical, plausible world by Renault – but this was my first time reading Renault’s magnum opus.
Frankly, it puts The King Must Die and The Bull From the Sea in the shade.Renault has an innate sense of time and place, situating the story within its historical and cultural context with sublime skill and understanding.
I’ve read historical fiction where it’s obvious that the author has completely failed to understand the times he or she is writing about, failed to understand the culture, society, and thought of ancient peoples.
A book is deserving of 5 stars if it's able to spark such intense curiosity about a particular history and country in me. And that is exactly what Fire from Heaven did. Man's immortality is not to live forever; for that wish is born of fear. Each moment free from fear makes a man immortal. Fire from Heaven is about the childhood and youth of Alexander the Great. No doubt, Mary Renault has done such an extensive and comprehensive research on the subject matter. She touched on key events such as h
Each moment free from fear makes a man immortal.
Fire from Heaven is about the childhood and youth of Alexander the Great.
We got a glimpse of all the things that made him truly deserving of that epithet.
It's intriguing to know that what Mary Renault writes are things that could have happened, might have happened; the words exchanged could have been uttered.
Jared Leto on the other hand makes a fine Hephaistion!Conclusion: For a brilliant semi-fictitious historical novel, be sure to pick up Mary Renault's Fire from Heaven, the first in the Alexander the Great series!
When I picked up this book what I was looking for was an understanding of Alexander the Great's personality.
What I learned was that he was continually torn between his two parents.
The book concludes with the assassination of his father, which I found difficult to follow.
I also had difficulty with the battles between the different kingdoms.
I would have liked more about the cultural differences between the battling opponents.
While I did learn what Alexander did, I cannot say I fully understand how he came to achieve such magnificence, such power.
Easy to follow and read at a good pace.
I don't want to be stingy for no good reason.Basically, I loved everything about this book except how long it took me to read it, which is not the book's fault, it's my own.
In this book, my fondness changed to love, adoration, admiration, all of the above.
I LOVE Alexander.
It was nice to get a broad overview of the significant things that happened in Alexander's life, and just as in The Persian Boy, it is done without feeling like a textbook history lesson, which is wonderful.
The history is certainly important, but what sucks me in is the characters and their relationships.
rating: 5/5Alexander the Great is known as the man who conquered the biggest empire of the ancient world, his battle strategies are still being studied in military schools today, some 2300 years after his death.
Renault’s first book of the Alexander trilogy follows him from about the age of three until his father’s murder, his life as told from the eyes of his family, friends, lovers, tutors, enemies, fellow soldiers and others who shaped his life.
The love between Alexander and Hephaestion is presented beautifully (paralleled against Achilles and Patroclus) and shows the impact that it’s had on Alexander’s life.
3.5 stars RTC
Mary Renault did a good job of bringing ancient Macedonia and Alexander the Great's world to life.
Renault has Alexander enter into a homosexual relationship with his best friend Hephaestion, who is pretty straightforwardly in love with Alexander.
Alexander finds his father's sexual habits despicable, not because Philip sleeps with members of both sexes, but because he is indiscreet, indiscriminate, and hurtful to Alexander's mother, Olympias.
Renault did a good job of showing Alexander as a product of both his parents.
Mary Renault draws you into Ancient Greece showing us its rich history and Alexander’s world.
Renault did a great job of showing us how the characters felt and thought throughout the book.
The pacing does suffer in the book with the author switching from different characters’, especially the minor characters, point of view unexpectedly.
I felt it took focus away from the main characters, especially Alexander.
You can see Renault’s admiration with Alexander and how it shines through out the book.
She almost makes him too perfect at times, almost god like but then it’s hard not to admire a historical figure like him.
This was hands down the worst book I've ever read. So confusing! The author doesn't seem to know the English language. Was there no editor on this project?! I would like a refund and the time I spent on this crappy read back please.
It doesn’t necessarily matter that my Greek political/military history is pretty much non-existent, or that the names are pretty much totally confusing (a problem I also, funnily enough, had with Tolstoy), it speaks to the power of the book that I am able to open its pages and forget that I’m riding a smelly old bus to campus to take a test I haven’t studied for – I become a member of Philip’s court, watching this beautiful, strong, headstrong and talented boy grow up in to what will be (with the beauty of hindsight) an absolutely legendary military leader!
Well researched, the book focuses on his relationships and what he learns from his parents - the lessons on statehood and military tactics from his father and wild dionysiac revels of his mother.
Alexander's relationships with his Companions are key.
By the end of the book Alexander is already a successful and gifted military leader but his relationship with his father over the inheritance has deteriorated to the point where Alexander is exiled.
The brilliant final scene in the book covers the assassination of Philip during the wedding of his daughter (Alexander's sister) with her uncle (yet another ruse to disherit Alexander).
Fire from Heaven is the first volume of a trilogy on the life of Alexander the Great by Mary Renault.
At the same time, it is broadly hinted that Philip is not really Alexander's father.
That is, of course, only complicated by the fact that there are four Alexanders in the novel and a host of other frequently used Greek names, such as Pausanias.
Fire from Heaven takes to to the death by assassination of Philip at the betrothal ceremony of his daughter Kleopatra to King Alexander of Epirus.Like anything I have read by Renault, it is an engrossing read, with a strong feeling for the main characters.
Go figure.Since Fire from Heaven is the first volume of Mary Renault's trilogy about the life of Alexander the Great, it's not very surprising that this book is about Alexander's childhood and youth.
I think Mary Renault's way of writing may not be for everyone (then again, whose is?), but I find it to be beautiful and elegant.
Those moments left a deep impression on me.Now for my most favorite thing about this book, and also the main reason why I wanted to read it: the relationship between Alexander and Hephaistion.
Mary Renault writes them as lovers, and it's rather touching to see how their relationship blossoms.
Alexander & Hephaistion, modeling themselves after Achilles and Patroklos.
And sadly, following right into the way he died.The play of Father and Mother who hate the sight of each other, and that influence on Alexander, him not giving his mother away to his father, the king or the other way around, right from the age of 5.
It would take two generations to accomplish one feat, taking as its toll two dead kings and a broken empire.The difficult language with pronouns that need to be traced back to see whom they refer to, make it really difficult to work through the book.
Mary Renault's telling of the Theseus story, 'The King Must Die' was one of the favourite books of my teen years -- one of the first grown-up books I read as an adolescent, and re-read several times.I was delighted on finally returning to her to find 'Fire from Heaven', the start of the Alexander story (which some appear to call "her Alexandriad"), compelling, mostly beautifully written, and a masterwork of Classics.It's very economically written, which means it's repeatedly very rich on detail in relatively small amounts of space.
And I found my appreciation of it rising and falling in sync with Alexander's fortunes.
Ancient Greece and Macedonia are fully realised here as vibrant, detailed, interesting places with complicated histories, dark pasts and spooky gods.
Alexander himself, who is, of course, the main character, threatens to be a little too perfect at times, but Renault manages to keep him on just the right side of that line.
Some characters, such as Phillip or Hephaistion, are fantastically drawn while others, such as the scheming Olympias or the cowardly Demosthenes, get somewhat short changed.
These are fairly minor quibbles though, and for the most part it's an excellent fictionalisation of the early years of one of the most famous men in the history of the world.
Buddy read with Diana. Stalled at page 80.
Espectacular novela, me ha encantado como escribía esta mujer. Voy a por la segunda parte con muchísimas ganas.
Never the beautiful ardour, the wedded bond of honour, the fire from heaven blazing on the altar where fear was killed.”Mary Renault, you coward, liar and traitor.
Rather than blame them, we ought to be thankful to the gods for making us men.”Gods!… One of the best things about this book is the way it depicts the contemporary attitudes towards religion as well as the rituals and rites.
If Renault were a bit more fair and courageous, I might have liked Olympias as well, but I guess I won’t see a normal human being of female persuasion in her books.
Olympias is like the wicked queen in a fairy tale, while Philip appears as a drunken oaf.
Philip actually built up Macedon from a primitive backwater to a power that held sway over the whole of Greece.
Anyone who has read all of Renault's books will recognise her disdain for democracy and love of Plato's ideas.
This comes across most strongly in this book and sometimes reads almost as a manifesto.
It is the only one of her books that I have not re-read and feel that her fawning hero-worship of Alexander, and demonising anyone that was against him, sickening.
I'd been told by many people, for years, that Renault was/is the queen of historical fiction.
Quite how she passed me by in my youth, when I hoovered up every historical fiction book I could find, I don't know.
I've read this book now, and it's a masterpiece.
I don't think I've ever read such a vivid evocation of ancient times - and Christian Cameron takes some beating.
This is a book that I will re-read, which in my time poor, books rich life, is saying something.
9/10 books get read and discarded.
Just starting book two, The Persian Boy, with great anticipation.
I really wanted to like this so much especially after just finishing Song of Achilles. However I kept trying to pick it up over and over hoping I will get sucked in and it just didn't happen. Maybe it picked up later in the book but I was mostly just confused about what was going on and why I should care for the first few chapters.
There's no need to review this. It's the exquisite and unforgettable story of Alexander The Great's coming of age in Macedonia under his father King Phillip. Incredible. I loved every line.
