https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/588654.Picasso
Gertrude Stein chega, não ao fim da história de Picasso "mas ao fim desta história da sua história.", em 1937 quando Picasso - depois de dois anos sem pintar e em que se dedicou a escrever poesia - encontrou a sua verdadeira cor, o cinzento, com 
.Trata-se de um excelente ensaio que, sinteticamente - e "colorido" por alguns pequenos diálogos entre Stein e Picasso -, ajuda a compreender um pouco a obra do pintor.
Disse-me que já não me podia ver e foi para Espanha.
Quando regressou, Picasso pintou a cabeça sem voltar a ver-me e deu-me o quadro.
اما نباید فراموش کرد اینگونه نگاه ذات گرایانه به چیزهایی مثل "اسپانیا" یا "قرن بیستم" خالی از تسامح نیستنقایص و انتقاداتالبته عقب جلو رفتن های زمانی کتاب به نظرم یه نقصه، هر چند با حرف تو حرف آوردنش مشکلی ندارم - یعنی مشکل در هم ریختن توالی زمانی بحث ها است؛ مثلا بحث در مورد یک دوره یه جا متمرکز نیست بلکه یهو وسط توضیح یه دوره ی دیگه یک تیکه در مورد یه دوره ی دیگه ذکر شدهمشکل دیگه ی این کتاب اینه که نقاشی ها رو برده آخر کتاب - حداقل در یک نسخه ی انگلیسی که من دیدم اینگونه نبود؛ بهتر بود نقاشی های مربوط آنجا که بحثشان است آورده می شد.

This is a strange half-biography of Picasso written by one of his friends and cohort of artists.
I have always struggled to understand some of the more academic (or should I say more precocious) forms of artistic analysis, and this falls firmly into that category.
I dislike that Gertrude Stein groups people entirely by their nationality and generalizes everything - Spain is THIS, Spaniards do THIS, Russians do THIS.
I disagree with is quite a bit, and find it borders on offensive, as if we are all just our nationality.
I like reading the reviews about this book. The book itself is a work of art, and I don't think people realize that it's not just supposed to be a biography about Picasso. Or, well, it CAN'T be read that way, because Gertrude Stein probably did mean it to just be a biography about Picasso. It's Gertrude Stein, people!!!!
I love the part where the burglars break in and steal all Picasso’s linens but leave his paintings behind
رويا پردازي و اسطوره سازي براي همه ي انسانها وجود داره، با حدود و شدت هاي متفاوت.من البته به اين جنبه ي كتاب توجه نكردم موقع خوندنش.
ترسم از اين هست كه من هم توي اين شكل هاي عجيب و به ظاهر بي معني، اون زيبايي اي رو كه به پيكاسو نسبت داده شده ببينم و دنياي " هنر به صرف نقاشي هاي رئال" من فرو بريزه.به هر حال نكته اي كه فهميدم اين بود كه اصلا دوست ندارم وقتي يك اثر هنري رو ميبينم، كسي بياد و براي من توضيح بده كه مثلا منظور از اين قطعه در اون نقطه بيان فلان چيز بوده كه با فلان و بهمان اثر برابري ميكنه...
She welcomed and supported Hemingway, Matisse, Picasso and many others in her home.
She sat for paintings, collected their art, read their works, and had them to her house for meals and long discussions.
For those insights, this book is well worth reading.
Short, fast read with made images of Picasso's paintings presented in chronological order.
I will keep this book in my Picasso section.
Come read it some afternoon and you will see.
We can discuss this book and art over a nice glass of wine.
It actually works for this kind of analysis/ memoir/ essay/ piece of what we might refer to as "Imaginitive Criticism"....the singular way she crafts a sentence, insight, observation lulls you in and makes you see the work and life of Picasso as she does, through her aphoristic eyes, and since- according to the lady herself- this is very crux of the matter w/r/t Senior Picasso then the language isn't strange isn't wrong isn't self-indulgent or obscure but a part of the act of reading of seeing in all its glory.
This books contains the only clear description I have ever heard of Cubism. As the butch doyenne of the Parisian Salons, she captures the heart of Picasso in that context. Obliquely shifted my world view just a bit.
Review half written, coming soon.
This is such a moving homage from one genius to another.
یک شرحِ حال و کمی تفسیر خودمانی از زندگی و کارها و فکرها و دورههای کاریِ پیکاسو!
یک شرحِ حال و کمی تفسیر خودمانی از زندگی و کارها و فکرها و دوره‌های کاریِ پیکاسو!
"Picasso lutava, afinal, para exprimir a cabeça, o rosto, o corpo dos homens e das mulheres na sua concepção pessoal. Era uma luta dura, continua a sê-lo. A alma dos seres não lhe interessa muito. Quer isto dizer que para ele a existência da cabeça, do rosto, do corpo é tão importante, tão persistente, tão completa, que ele não tem necessidade nenhuma de pensar noutra coisa. E a alma é evidentemente outra coisa."
I found Gertrude Steins abstract thoughts a joy to follow as she describes this artist as I've never read before, while being so perceptive to his whys and wherefores. The featured artworks help in bringing it all together, while only dealing with Picasso and his work, no distractions.
It has been a while since I've read anything by Gertrude Stein and it was fun to fall back into the rhythm of her writing style.
This is by far, one of the easiest volumes of hers to read and I think her style lends itself well to the description of an artist's process.
It was fun to learn that when he was a young artist, Picasso used to say that it would be so incredible if he were burglarized and someone stole his paintings and drawings (meaning his artwork was worth something).

This is the first of Gertrude Stein's work I have read.
You can definitely feel the intention that quite possibly influenced Hemingway's style, but I can't help thinking that Stein was one of those many intelligent people who cannot write very well.
If anything, I shall probably remember her classification of Picasso's various periods simply through her repetition.
It is a very quick read expedited by the various useful pictures of Picasso's work and a handful of photographs.
Nonetheless, I doubt I would have bothered to read this if the subject matter wasn't of interest and Stein had not been a part of Hemingway's early development.
Curioso acercamiento a la obra de Picasso de la mano de Gertrude Stein. Residente en Francia desde 1903, en París abrió un salón literario, que se convertiría en centro del avant-garde de comienzos del S. XX. Stein era suficientemente joven para entender a los artistas, suficientemente madura como para patrocinarlos y suficientemente acaudalada para comprar sus pinturas. En este libro Gertrude "pinta" a Picasso quizá como respuesta al retrato que Picasso hizo de ella.
Stein really tells us to see Picasso's art for ourselves, to understand it in our terms while also seeing and understanding, as best we can, Picasso and his art as he knew and saw himself. In writing this she reminds us that time and place matter to the making and to the seeing and like Ursula K. Le Guin would comment many years later the new art, of the moment, is the most difficult to see because our experience has not given us now so much as then.
This isn't a common biography, it's some kind of a friendly one. I didn't like the style, I think I maybe expected something more from Gertrude Stein. However it is not a bad book either, it has a lot of very personal information about Pablo, but it is not complete for me, it doesn't show what the artist really was, apart from only one very simple opinion. Nevertheless, it had good comments about Picasso's works (which were also included as images).
Though Gertrude Stein is not for everyone and her writing is somewhat bizarre and meandering - I love this book. I read it many years ago and have been searching for it for years since. And it held the exact same magic I'd found within its pages the first time around. This book is a window into Picasso's artistic soul and mind. It opened a door for me, helping me understand what drove - and inspired him. I shall keep it close and reread many times I'm sure...
It's a bit of a jarring book to follow, but it reveals a lot about Picasso and Stein without revealing a lot of actual events in either of their lives. It's that which makes the read an interesting one. Unfortunately, or fortunately when I read the book I pictured Kathy Bates across from me and I as Owen Wilson having Picasso explained to me. Thanks a lot Woody Allen.
kötü, çok kötü bir kitap. picasso'nun dostu olan bir yazarın yazdığını düşündükçe picasso'dan bile şüphe duyuyor insan. bir öğrenci kompozisyonu olabilecek malzemeyi evirip çevirip duruyor yazar kitap boyunca. ısrarla tekrarladığı iki şey var: birincisi picasso'nun portresini yapmış olduğu, ikincisi picasso'nun ispanyol olduğu. birincisi belli ki vahim bir hata, ikincisi ise bir sır.
I liked it, it's cool to read a more firsthand account of such an epic character - and written by an epic character in her own right. As a piece of history, I enjoyed it; but, after a while, I was reminded of the fact that I have tired of hearing about Picasso.
Very interesting content, but I now remember why Gertrude Stein's writing annoys me so much: "A rose is a rose is a rose is a rose is a rose is a rose is a rose is a rose is a rose is a rose is a rose is a rose is a rose..." until your eyes bleed.
نثر اشتاین توی این کتاب خیلی شلخته به نظر می رسه. هیچ متن دیگه ای ازش نخوندم و نمی دونم کلا این طور می نویسه یا توی این کتاب تغییر استراتژی داده. کتاب هیچ نظم و منطقی نداره الا گریزهایی که به سال شمار زندگی پیکاسو می زنه. آشفته ست. چرا این کتاب این طوریه؟
I absolutely loved this little book. Gertrude Stein's insights on how Picasso worked as an artist and why Cubism came about in the way that it did are fascinating. It was like sitting in on a discussion about the nature and practice of art between the two of them.
Inspired me to identify with the times and hold my approach to music as meaning full and artistic even if only a few, other than myself, can enjoy it. I seem to gravitate intellectually and personally to different times.To have been a fly on the wall at one of her evenings.
Dowiedziałam się, że wiek dwudziesty różni się od wieku dziewiętnastego a Hiszpania różni się od Francji. Dość osobliwy, obsesyjny tekst.Ale plus za zakończenie: "Dlatego też Picasso jest wspaniały. Tak. Dziękuję".
