https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34275232-the-hazel-wood
Did her insides match her outsides? Was the way my life dripped off me like water, barely leaving a mark, normal? Okay, so this was not a book for me. I really wish I hadn’t received an arc of The Hazel Wood and had instead waited for more reviews to roll in first. The blurb makes it sound exactly like the kind of dark fairy tale goodness I love, but if someone had - more accurately - explained that this is a book about a girl called Alice who gets sent to Wonderland the Hinterland where she me
The blurb makes it sound exactly like the kind of dark fairy tale goodness I love, but if someone had - more accurately - explained that this is a book about a girl called Alice who gets sent to Wonderland the Hinterland where she meets tweedle dee and tweedle dum many colourful characters who talk in riddles, and she finds herself doing bizarre and random things like attending an unbirthday party singing “Smells Like Teen Spirit” and “Landslide” in a Tudor-style pub… well, I’d have passed.
4.5*Thoughts tk at some point when I have time, sorry!
It's time for another unpopular opinion review! This book was literally the single biggest reading disappointment of the year for me. I really wanted to love this story. It was being marketed as a twisted fairytale, and those are my aesthetic for sure - the spookier and darker, the better - but this fell short in so many ways. Please remember that these are just my opinions! You are more than welcome to disagree or tell me your thoughts, but please do so respectfully. ❤ "I wanted that distance.
In one scenario, when he remarks on her misogynistic speech, her actual comeback is, "Oh, my god, Finch, go get a liberal arts degree" (I read this three times in hopes of making sense of it before deciding that she learned her snark from old men in facebook comment threads).Beyond all of the ways in which Alice's character is incredibly harmful and is rarely - if ever - challenged for most of her behaviors, she's also just not well-written.
As usual, look for the link under the picture.
Don't ask, but as usual, click on the link below picture to see the unboxing & some other surprises ♥BOOKISH STUFFWell, there are not that many great reviews for this on my friends list.
"Hi," I said, flustered.
"You smell like a coffee bean," he said when we reached the corner.
I'm sure more people will love the book.
There seems to be a ton of people on Amazon that love it already so there is that.
Mel ♥MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading ListAMAZON: REVIEW
ARC provided by Flatiron Books in exchange for an honest review.  “Once upon a time there was a beautiful queen who thought words were stronger than anything. She used them to win love and money and gifts. She used them to carry her across the world.”  Let me just start this off by saying that I normally only one star something if it has very problematic content. This book only has one element that made me uncomfortable (that I will talk about later on), but the main reason I’m giving this one s
Next, and this could be completely my fault, I feel like this is marketed as a YA Fantasy, when it takes the reader almost 250 pages, out of a 360 page book, to even get into the fantasy aspect and by that time I couldn't care less about some pseudo Alice in Wonderland.
The other minor thing that just made me feel a little uncomfortable while reading was that this book kind of romanticizes kidnapping.
The only thing I truly liked about this book were the two chapters that were stories that Finch was retelling to Alice from inside her Grandmother’s book,  Tales from the Hinterland.
Holy Hinterland crows, that was good. Read this at night, with a cup of tea and the lights dimmed so you can be scared silly like I was. :D :D
Stories became jumbled and it left me feeling as if the ending has less impact than it intended to.I find one of the biggest critiques of this novel is that the main character, Alice, is immensely rude, disrespectful, hyper-critical and ill-tempered which is 100% true.
Given, every time Alice made an effort to point out her “rage issues”, I totally rolled my eyes, but it didn’t make me significantly more frustrated than other unlikeable main characters.
Alice isn’t the worst main character I’ve ever read about (though she’s pretty close to the bottom), but I don’t feel much affection for her.
When Alice was born, her eyes were black from end to end, and the midwife didn't stay long enough to wash her.We're dropped into the story about midway; the first few chapters are meant to give us some background on Alice, her mother Ella, and her grandmother Althea Prosperine, who became famous by writing a book of fairytales.
This book certainly won't be for everyone, but I think the fans of dark fairytales and things that go bump in the night will wholly appreciate the author's ability to conjure up such a complex tale that was detailed and, quite frankly, brilliant.
"And while they're being told, stories create the energy that makes this world go. They keep our stars in place. They make our grass grow."  You want to read a mysterious, crazily intriguing book, this is it. My heart was racing for the first 7 chapters because I had no idea what was going to happen and during the rest because I couldn’t wait to see where the Story was going (pun intended- if you’ve read it you’ll understand).This is just so AMAZING. I don’t know how it possible to make somethi
It was so much more interesting because nearly every other character had their own agenda and were playing their own angle.In this world, Althea Proserpine was a famous writer who wrote the books Tales of Hinterland.
But now Alice has been taken by someone who claims to be from Hinterland, the very world Althea based all her stories on, which now turns out to be real.
The concept of the Hinterland and the Hazel Wood was written with a lot of clarity which increases the pace of the book.
I absolutely loved the writing, but the plot itself wasn't really my cup of tea.Alice grew up moving from place to place with her mom whenever "bad luck" and weird situations caught up to them.
One day Alice's mother is taken in a string of creepy incidents and it becomes clear that the Hinterland (the world from the fairy tale book) is real.
It's next to impossible to get a copy of the book, but a guy at Alice's school is flat out obsessed with the stories.
Finally, I had an unpopular opinion………...but in the fun way!Honestly, even though hating the books that everyone loves makes me feel #quirky and #unique and dare I say...not like other girls, it gets old.
Fingers crossed.Now it’s time for the hard part of the review, when I have to explain why I liked the book.
Does it count as a spoiler if it’s a good thing that should convince you to read the book??
If Melissa Albert is smart, or loves me or the world or both, she will write that spinoff.Bottom line: I’ve never read a YA fantasy book like this!!!
THREE THOUGHTS ABOUT THIS BOOK.1) I heard that this book had The Raven Boys vibes and I was sooo excited to read this book and find out more as to why it resembled one of my favorites series of all time BUT......literally,FUCKING LIESSSSSS.
I just couldn't grasp the full of it.It was so confusing; sure the writing was good and the premise of the story overall is actually really intriguing and unique....but I just couldn't grasp the finality of certain passages of scenes in the book???Or maybe I'm just too stupid to understand lmao.
Seventeen-year-old Alice has never had reason to believe her grandmother's book of dark fairy tales is founded in truth - until now.
The Hazel Wood pays homage to fables and fairy tales by occasionally making light references to stories such as "The Three Little Pigs" when Alice questions, "If you've spent your whole life running, how do you learn to stand still?
"Everything was echo and pulse, float and stretch, sleep and wake and a distant hunger,"* Albert writes of Alice's experience waking after having been knocked out.
The Hazel Wood presents itself as a dark, foreboding tale but proves to be light reading.
Final review, just posted on Fantasy Literature:Alice Proserpine has always led a drifter’s life with her mother Ella.
All Alice knows about this tantalizing book (before her mother snatched it away from her, never to be seen again) is the titles of the stories, including the intriguingly named “Alice-Three-Times.”When Ella gets word that Althea has died, she’s determined to stop running from life.
In the first half of the book the plot unrolls at a leisurely pace, enlivened only by Ella’s kidnapping, Alice’s search for the Hazel Wood, and some occasional run-ins with suspicious dark characters.
This book was so deliciously dark & creepy.Overall I really enjoyed it but it just wasn't a full 5/5
This was marketed as a fantasy so I was very confused when the fantastical elements didn't even come into the book until 2/3 of the way.
If you're gonna sell me a fantasy you better deliver.
I also was very uncomfortable with the way Finch, the only person of color, was treated.
And there is one scene in particular where they are stopped by a police officer whom Alice tries to provoke and Finch explains to her that it is dangerous for someone who looks like him to be disrespectful to cops and she just totally disregards and brushes him off.
I read this book for the story, not for the characters.
The problem with the characters is that there are only two main ones – Alice and Finch.
Finch knows everything about Alice's grandmother's book and Alice has a good instinct.
This is why I read the book for the story (and writing) instead of the figures playing a role in it.
The story is so mysterious and enthralling that I kept reading and reading so I could find out more about this dark fairytale-esque world in which Alice knows not her place.
It's not just a journey for Alice and Finch; it's also a ''quest''.
Don't know what to say... I'm bummed about this one... 😞
2/5This was…well, I mean — ugh, this is disappointing to say, but this just wasn’t good ya’ll.
I mean, the synopsis sounded great, and I couldn’t wait to get my hands on this.
I swear, once I got past the halfway mark I just wished the novel would end already, and that’s never a good sign.Normally, I’m a sucker for novels that mix modern-day elements with fairytales (like recently I read and loved The Cruel Prince), but this one just didn’t do it for me.
But, I mean, I’m not saying this wasn’t original — so, at least it had that.
UPDATE: I've been getting this question a lot, so I'll answer it here: The Hazel Wood is not an Alice in Wonderland retelling. I just like the name Alice. ;)For the curious: a first chapter excerpt lives here: http://ew.com/books/2017/06/07/meliss...(And thanks for being curious!)
Her grandmother though was famous from writing a book that Alice had never been able to read, a book of fairy tales of Hinterland.
Immediately Alice thinks they will finally visit Hazel Wood but her mother immediately refuses.
Before Alice knows it she finds that her mother has gone missing and with the help of a boy who had been a huge fan of her grandmother's stories Alice finds herself finally learning the truth of Hinterland.
The Hazel Wood by Melissa Albert is a young adult fantasy read that takes the reader into the darker world of fairy tales.
I like that I could not guess what will happen next and when Alice share her past experiences, it’s always a pleasant surprise.In this book, readers will follow the point of view of Alice Crewe (aka Alice Proserpine) as she and her mom move away yet again from the bad luck that is chasing them everywhere they go.
The idea on bad luck chasing and how the photo was taken of Alice and Finch sleeping at David’s house gives me the creeps.
I love the robbery at one of the house Alice stayed at, where the bookshelf holds something other than books!
3.75* Alice in Wonderland meets Inkheart in Melissa Albert's dark and twisty modern day fairytale, The Hazel Wood.
I have to say that enjoyed the first half more so than the second, as it was less fantasy and more twisted contemporary mystery, which I loved.
I also felt the ending was a little rushed and therefore there were parts of the world and plot I couldn't quite get a grasp on.
Having said that, I really enjoyed both Alice and Finch as characters and overall found The Hazel Wood to be a fast paced and enjoyable read, with intriguing characters, dark worlds and a unique plot.
"The Hinterland didn’t tell nice tales.”  3.5 The Hazel Wood  is the first installment of an apparent duology (you can never be too sure these days), and it follows seventeen-year-old Alice as she and her mother live life on the run from “the bad luck”. After they learn about her grandmother’s death – Althea Proserpine, the obscurely famous author of the dark  Tales From The Hinterland  – Alice's mother seems to believe they won’t have to run anymore. But soon enough, the ill-tempered girl has
But soon enough, the ill-tempered girl has an unpleasant surprise and realizes her problems might have something to do with The Hazel Wood – her grandmother’s mysterious estate – and that there’s more to Althea's twisted tales than just creepy stories.Well, me and this book were together for quite a while.
Looks like the “bad luck” wasn’t following just Alice around, after all.The Hazel Wood starts slow, and drags a little while it introduces the main character and sets its atmosphere.
Alice has never read her grandmother’s book, but she learns more and more about it throughout the narrative, so we get a good glimpse of these dark stories.
But when Alice’s grandmother, the reclusive author of a cult-classic book of pitch-dark fairy tales, dies alone on her estate, the Hazel Wood, Alice learns how bad her luck can really get: her mother is stolen away―by a figure who claims to come from the Hinterland, the cruel supernatural world where her grandmother's stories are set.
The second half is mainly based in The Hazel Wood with Finch and Alice searching for Ella but she returns to NYC at the end of the book.Main Characters - Alice is a steely-minded and tenacious girl who seems to have issues with her anger at many points during the novel.
This started off SO strong, but I feel like the first half and the second half were completely different books. Even though I’m not usually into fantasy, I would have easily given the first half 5 stars, but then the second half happened and I just 😐 ugh. What a let down. I will read more from this author in the future because I know she has potential to write a book I’ll love, but this one just was not it. Womp.
*****I received this book for free from a Goodreads giveaway*****2 stars.
I was really disappointed with this book.
This book started off super strong for me.
Then it took an Alice in Wonderland turn, and I stopped enjoying it.
It’s not that I don’t like Alice in Wonderland, but I’m ok with it staying in its own story.
The main character Alice was only slightly like-able.
What I liked about her most was how much she loved her mom.
I can’t really think of a character I really liked to be honest.
This book was just not for me 🤷‍♀️
Her mother has never wanted anything to do with Althea or Hazel Wood and never given Alice any answers to her questions about either."A turn of events" (spoilers) forces Alice and Finch to seek out the woods, which turn out to be a place full of dark fairytales come to life.The cover of the book might lead you to think this is a light Young Adult fantasy, but as I mentioned, it’s more contemporary in the beginning with fantasy elements.
She's rude and I loathed her pretty much the entire time I was reading it.
It felt like nothing happened for the first half of the book and even when I got to the end, I still had my WITAF face on.
I do know that I read this in June and wanted to try again, so I requested it...yet, I now can't bring myself to take the time to reread.
Overall, I like the idea and the creepiness and I did somewhat enjoy the story, but I never felt captivated by it.
I haven't particularly read any fantasy books (other than repeatedly rereading Harry Potter) and it was refreshing to read this.This was my kind of fairytale- more of a Grimms fairytale than a Disney one.
I loved the dark tones to this book and the darkness of the stories mentioned in "Tales of the Hinterland", the tales that are mentioned through out this book.This book enabled me to really develop my imagination.
Overall this story was a great way to get me back into reading fantasy and fairy tale books.
It is a book that I'm excited about rereading.
