https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18225810-sisters
Raina and Amara's relationship:This is a companion novel to Smile, which I really liked and absolutely recommend.
Luckily, she undergoes a noticeable character development.When I was a kid, I kept wanting a sister to play with, exactly like Raina.
I wanted to share the kind of relationship we see sisters share on TV, for example in the Charmed TV show (which is one of my favourites).
A 2nd book?
I initially picked it up for my little sister, but ended up enjoying it myself in one sitting just before she came home from school.Raina uses her signature humor and charm in both present-day narrative and perfectly placed flashbacks to tell the story of her relationship with her sister, which unfolds during the course of a road trip from their home in San Francisco to a family reunion in Colorado.I was incredibly pumped to see what my little sister would think about this read, since it's the perfect visual example of what I felt like during those years before her birth.
So when she likes a book, I have to make a big deal out of it.
:)You have lots of typical sisterly fights, the older one gets her own room, but then the younger one gets to pick a pet and she picks a snake.Quote:Raina (the older sister): You ever feel like you just don't fit in?"Amara: "All the time.
The difference between you and me is, I don't care."Raina likes to dance, play dress up, while Amara is a bit more...
Raina and Amara are sisters.
Raina used to beg her parents for a younger sister, until one day she finally got her wish.
But although the two do not get along, they begin to try and compromise, because they are family.This is a book easily devoured in one sitting.
The plot is very basic yet works extremely well; the sibling dynamic is what makes the book so funny even if the reader doesn’t have a sister.
Told from the perspective of Raina, it’s easy for the reader to find Amara incredibly annoying, although at times I felt really bad for her because she seemed to be misunderstood and had a very difficult time expressing herself in a calm way.
I've been waiting for the publication of this book since I read Telgemeier's previous graphic novel Smile.
This one picks up soon after the previous book, and centers around a family road trip from San Francisco through the Colorado Rockies for a family reunion.
Throughout the book, Telgemeier sheds light on the complicated relationship between herself and her younger sister, Amara, which is sort of hinted at in the earlier book.I especially liked how the author was able to journey back from present to past using different colored panel backgrounds in order to lay the groundwork for the two sisters.
Like I said before, I just really, really admire Telgemeier's art style.
In its own way, it's a modern twist on a vintage style of comics.
There's family fighting, there's a Walkman, there are Strawberry Shortcake dolls and cousins who are too cool and too many little children running around.
There's the tension between sisters as one grows up but the other matures, as one gets her own room and the other gets stuck with the little brother, as one tunes out the world and the other is overwhelmed by all the things in the world.I recognized everything.
Every little thing.
It would probably be pretty enjoyable to their parents, too.If my sister were on Goodreads, I'd recommend this to her.
She'll love it as much as I.
Two bickering sisters, and a little brother to add to the fun. Graphic memoir, more aimed at teenagers and young adults I suppose, but I enjoyed it anyway. Funny and cute and will bring a smile to your face, unless you absolutely hate children.
I need to learn how to post a picture here from Dropbox but on the iPad. If I can post it, there will be no words required for my review because it is artwork my daughter had done for a school project.
She chose this book because she is inspired by Raina Telgemeir and after reading this, it is easy to see why.
This graphic memoir includes real issues that affect everyone: sibling rivalry, how age gaps affect the sibling relationship, parental conflict, and my personal favorite...fear of snakes.
A fun, often funny look at the evolution of the relationship between two sisters presented through engaging illustrations and with a king snake thrown in!
Raina Telgemeir owns this market.
I love Raina's work.
Smile and Sisters is fantastic; both are memoirs in nature.
This is about siblings and family dynamics.
I keep telling my niece to be nice to her younger brother; you never know if one day you will be living in his basement.
I have to admit that I did not treat my brother well as a child.
I live in his basement while I go to school.
The story is also a road trip.
Crazy.I love the cheerful art.
Raina seems to be honest in her depictions of family life.
I'm sure there is exaggeration in there and story telling.
Our middle child's recent actions have officially declared her a tween, and part of this declaration has involved her turning her back on almost all picture books and early chapter reads.
We are now coming home with stacks of graphic novels from the library, and some of them are almost painful to read.
Well, painful for me.We are only three weeks into our summer vacation, and if it weren't for the near-miracle of Cece Bell (El Deafo) and this genius, Raina Telgemeier, I'm not sure I'd be able to keep including myself in these mother/daughter reads.Bless you, woman.
I actually liked this one better than Smile, maybe because I could relate to the whole sister thing more. 4 stars.
Sisters isn't an extraordinary or original story, but it's one that every reader who has ever had a sibling can relate to, not to mention the brilliant and unique graphic artwork that follows it.
I am really impressed by this book - Sisters strikes a perfect balance between adorably cute and solemnly heartfelt. Telgemeier’s art is wonderful, and her story is strong. Sisters captures the difficulty of being a kid, and the frustrations and joys of family. It’s funny and it’s sweet and it’s poignant - I highly recommend Sisters.Thank you to NetGalley and Scholastic for providing me with a copy of this book in return for an honest review.
Raina Telgemeier's SMILE is hugely successful, critically acclaimed, and basically everyone was excited when news of a companion graphic memoir broke.
Between each "present" section is a flashback to the family growing - sister, brother, pets, and all that comes with.Some of the darker developments might surprise younger readers, but the astute ones will catch on to some of the underlying family tensions.
Raina and Amara's combative relationship will be familiar to anyone with a sibling - as will their moment(s) of detente.As always, Telgemeier's art is expressive, albeit deceptively simple.
SISTERS is sure to please Telgemeier's many fans.
Nobody can push your buttons like a younger sibling.
Trust me, my sister actually and literally in a very real sense scarred me for life.
Raina does a great job with showing just how difficult the relationship between siblings can be, and she does it without sparing herself.
Yes, Amara is often difficult in this book, but Raina is, too.
True, Amara does come off a little better through most of the book, but this is filtered through her own memories.
This is definitely in Raina's signature style: cartoony, simple, expressive.
It's really good and I love her artistic style but I wanted to know more. A lot more. Just because the target audience is kids/teens doesn't mean it needs to stay at the shallow end of the pool. I wish she had explored a little deeper.
I recommend it for anyone who has a sister who is just DIFFERENT from them.
very much captures that dynamic.And my sister and I went on road trips (er, that is, my family did) and I ignored her to read, so I definitely felt some pangs of guilt over Raina and her Walkman.AND this has a reference to the sporting goods store my sister works for.AND I read it at family Easter and when I was done, my sister picked it up and read it straight through.
(She is not much of a reader.) We didn't talk about it, but that was nice, too.
Su hermana tiene criterio, gustos propios que a Raina le resultan repugnantes (su amor por las serpientes y los animales en general), un sentido del humor que ella no comprende, mucho genio y un millón de detalles más que la sacan de quicio.Intercalada con la historia de su familia, tras Amara sus padres tienen otro hijo, la familia se amontona en una casa demasiado pequeña, el padre se queda sin trabajo, pasan dificultades económicas, etc., Raina nos cuenta el viaje en coche en que su relación con su hermana llegó a un nuevo punto.

I thought her first two, Smile, and Drama, were okay to good, and this one I thought was a little better, maybe 3.5 but because Jamie gave it five stars… :)
This is the story of Raina and her little sister, Amara.
Raina was desperate to have a little sister, but Amara is not working out the way she had pictured.
It’s just up to Raina and Amara as to how their relationship with one another will change.Telgemeier has created another breathtakingly honest graphic novel for elementary and middle grade readers.
The book though focuses on flashbacks showing the family and how relationships have altered.
Readers may be so focused on the story of the two sisters that they too will be blindsided along with Raina about the other issues facing their family.
I don't know what I expected when I got this book from the library, but it exceeded by expectations!The first thing that you should know is that it isn't a regular novel.
I was expected it to be like a regular book when I got it, and I thought it would be disappointing.
The biggest thing was her relationship with her sister.
They have fights along the way.
This story is based on her real relationship with her sister.
She knows that they love each other even though they fight.
I liked this story because it sticks to reality.
Reseña completa en: http://elcaosliterario.blogspot.com.e...Esta novela gráfica la recomendaría para cualquier edad porque los más pequeños disfrutarán con ella también.
Las situaciones que se plasman son muy surrealistas y divertidas y es un humor fresco.
En ellas se muestra las ganas de Raina por tener una hermana, la noticia del embarazo, los primeros años de vida de su hermana...
Las de color blanco, muestran la actualidad que dista bastante de lo que Raina se imaginaba que sería su vida con la hermana que tanto deseaba tener.En resumen: una buena lectura para robarnos más de una sonrisa.
Tied together by a family car trip, other episodes are juxtaposed to show how the sisters relate differently to what is going on around them.
To be completely honest, it's possible that my enjoyment was affected by the fact that the graphic novel e-galley I received was mostly in black-and-white, although the publisher included a note saying that the final version "will be in full color throughout." So, it was kind of like reading a novel with most of the adjectives removed.
I hope to read the full color version after publication.
I really liked this book because it is cool looking at someone's life as when they were small but in cartoon. I recommend this book to everyone because there might not be problems only with sisters there could also be some between brothers. It was about Raina and she had a sister and at the beginning she loved her little sister but then they get into lots of fights. Then she goes to a sleepover and when she goes back she chips her teeth and she has to get braces.
I shared this with my 10 year old daughter and we absolutely loved it. I enjoyed the humor but also the moments where it brought up things we could talk about. The illustrations were a huge part of the book as well. What a great story everyone should try and enjoy!she enjoyed it so much we went out and bought a paperback copy so we could re-read it!
Absolutely amazing! I loved it from the first word! I was able to read it in one day! Literally!! xD
While the first installment focused mostly on Raina and her friends, Sisters takes a look at the emotions that come from being a sibling and a daughter.
Raina and her sister don't get along, as you may gather from the cover.
The thought of sisters kind of terrifies me.) So when Raina and Amara have to share the back seat on a family road trip (minus their father, which is a whole 'nother issue in the book), they have to learn how to deal.
What I liked best is that Raina does not portray herself as the saintly sister.
Me and my sister all day everyday.
