https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1397217.Out_of_Time_s_Abyss
Originally posted at FanLit. http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...In Out of Time’s Abyss, the last volume of Edgar Rice Burrough’s CASPAK trilogy, we learn what happened to Bradley, one of the adventurers we met in the first novel, The Land that Time Forgot.
As we expected, Bradley has frightening adventures on Caspak, is nearly killed by lions, bears, tigers, dinosaurs, etc, and he saves and falls in love with a beautiful young damsel in distress.In this installment, we meet the Wieroo, the most highly evolved species on Caspak.
I read this book when I was 12 and absolutely loved it.
Yet strangely, I never did get around to reading the first two books in the series.
Now I'm trying to read the first book, THE LAND THAT TIME FORGOT, since I got it for free on Amazon Kindle.
Because really, any explanation will just look stupid, won't it?The other thing I like is that Bradley, the hero of this book, is a real stone-cold killer.
This is such an awesome book -- maybe I can find this one on Amazon Kindle for free as well!
Our hero spends much of the book punching these creatures in the face.And of course he rescues one of the kidnapped women, who immediately falls in love with him.
And would it surprise you to learn that she is very buxom and loosely attired?The thrills of this book are all very lazy, and Burroughs relies heavily on coincidence in allowing our hero to survive his various scrapes.
That, and the stupidity of his adversaries.The title OUT OF TIME'S ABYSS conveys a certain amount of gravitas, but, believe me, the book itself is a steaming bowl of corn cheese.
The third and final book of the Caspak trilogy, although I use the term 'book' loosely as each one is less than 200 pages.
One thing the book does do, is nicely ties into the other two books and brings the series to an overall conclusion at the end.
The final explanation of the evolution process on the island of Caspak is quite interesting and inventive, even by today's standards.Even though these were written in 1918 they stand the test of time very well.
I have always been a fan of Edgar Rice Burroughs. His writing is timeless and simple. His stories are born out of his imagination. However, I could argue the stories he shares with us (the reader) could easily be glimpses of worlds that he has been privileged to see and feels compelled to share with us. We should all feel honored by what he has shared with us over 100 years ago!
The concluding book from this trilogy is somewhat derivative, going beyond what is normal for pulp. In addition to the same problems as the previous book, this one takes highly questionable "evolution" to extremes - the female lead here was once an egg, then a tadpole, then aquatic lizard, ape, then human. Germans return in full villainy, but then this story was published in late 1918.Taken as a whole, the series isn't bad - but isn't particularly good either. I would recommend reading just the first book, which comes to a fairly good conclusion with a few minor mysteries.
The climactic finale of the Caspak trilogy, Out of Time’s Abyss is possibly the strangest, most creative, and most intense of the three books.
In this tale there are some truly unforgettable scenes of fear and suspense, and the genre almost verges on horror with some of the intense visuals and situations that Bradley encounters.The Weiroos alone make this book a worthwhile read, but throw in yet another of Burroughs’s seemingly endless line of beautiful and winsome female characters—in this case, the lovely Galu girl Co-Tan—and the charm of the story compounds again.
The final of the three Caspak books, in some ways it is more reminiscent of a Barsoom adventure than its two predecessors—Burroughs’s favored lost-city-with-strange-inhabitants motif is added to the prehistoric dangers we’ve already seen.It’s an odd mix but an inventive one, and it works.
The book also fully lays out the odd and rather preposterous science fiction premise of Caspakian evolution, hinted at in the earlier novels.
He’s also competent at dealing with the grotesque winged semi-human Weiroo who kidnap him and the beautiful young woman with whom he inevitably falls in love.
Their city of Oo-oh (another great name) is vividly realized.
Ray Bradbury said it well: "I love to say it because it upsets everyone terribly—Burroughs is probably the most influential writer in the entire history of the world," Bradbury said."By giving romance and adventure to a whole generation of boys, Burroughs caused them to go out and decide to become special.
That's what we have to do for everyone, give the gift of life with our books.
I've talked to more biochemists and more astronomers and technologists in various fields, who, when they were ten years old, fell in love with John Carter and Tarzan and decided to become something romantic.
With that said, the strength of this story is the interesting society he develops with the Weiroos.
Through book 1 and 2 there have been hints about the winged creatures, but in this book we finally get to see why the other tribes fear them and why they are heading to an evolutionary dead end.
Their society, customs and brutality are fully explored as Bradley ( a character from Book 1) is captured and must make his escape.
Time's Abyss also raps up loose ends from the other two books and forms a definitive conclusion to the trilogy.
This is my favorite book of the Caspak series.
It follows the excursion of a group of men who went exploring in the first book.
One of them, Bradley gets kidnapped by a Wieroo, a winged man with claw-like hands and a dead man's eyes.
He is taken as a prisoner to a small island next to Caspak where the Wieroos live.
On their island, Bradley finds a girl and attempts to help her to safety.
It is a satisfying ending to a fun series.Read this book for free through Project Gutenberg: http://www.gutenberg.org/files/553/55...
Not too bad, but not as good as the previous, and the same "Guy gets separated from group, fights his way through hordes of critters while falling for a girl" story is getting old.
The first one had the awesome submarine sequence in it, the second one tried to mix things up with a character and look at the deeper cultures of the races of Caspak, but this one seems more like a rehash of the second book.
It throws in the race of the Wieroo, but they seem too one dimensional, and a bit ludicrous at time.
"SHUN THE BLUE!!!" Anyway, still worth reading if you don't take it too seriously and want to finish the series, plus its short.
The final book in the Caspak trilogy answers the various questions raised by the first two books. Adventure as only Burroughs could do, with the usual array of improbable coincidences that Burroughs reveled in. A nice conclusion to the storyline.
The Caspak trilogy closes with a story of yet another protagonist, a Brit named Bradley, and the answer to all the eerie mysteries about that island that time forgot! The third-person yarn begins by showing the other side of some of the closing events of “The Land That Time Forgot”, namely what happened to the crew after the shelling of Fort Dinosaur by the German U-boat. Bradley and the rest are abducted one by one by the winged humanoid Weiroos, and soon Bradley is in the Weiroo city.  Edgar
The Caspak trilogy closes with a story of yet another protagonist, a Brit named Bradley, and the answer to all the eerie mysteries about that island that time forgot!
Hell, this might actually be more together than “The Moon Maid” trilogy on the whole!
I might actually have liked this one better than the others in some ways since it's set primarily in the city of skulls, so jungle survival plays less of a role.
On the subject of the two Amicus films, all the skull city stuff at the end of the second film was actually from this book.
But...the story itself is just so different from the first book.
But this one, while taking place on the same island (or actually on a separate island in a large lake on the original island) is really more like a "John Carter of Mars" story than anything in the vein of the original Land or Conan Doyle's The Lost World.
Very odd.Unlike Doyle's book, the writing itself doesn't age particularly well, either.
The hero, Bradley, is a Victorian stuffed shirt, prone to exclamations like "good show, old toff!" when pleased, and "come on, you behemoth of Holy Writ!
I could have overlooked that but after two earlier books detailing the many wonders of Caspak and the bizarre local manner in which evolution has, well, evolved, I expected Burroughs to offer some sort of explanation for how it all came to be.
Scientific experimentation of some forgotten civilization, alien infestation, time travel, something.
To my knowledge there's never been a sequel to the Caspak series - authorized or otherwise - but I would love for somebody to offer up a detailed exploration of "The Land (and People) That Time Forgot."
Out of Time's Abyss certainly brings the Caspak series out of the slump it had descended to in book #2.
Maybe ERB perceived the lack of action in the last book and wanted to start off running.
I've had a brief introduction to the Princess on Mars, having read only the first book in that series.
This rainy season of the year is the time I love to read most, but I'm thinking of checking out the Venus series, and then perhaps the Moon or Pelicidar series before turning back to finish the other.
ERB is definitely prime rainy day reading.
The final chapter in the Caspak series.
This is probably my favorite of the series.
This story finds Bradly, who was one of the crew from the first book, being kidnapped by the demonic Wieroo and him finding his way back to the camp.
Of course he finds himself a dame on the way.
It wouldn't be a classic ERB novel without the hero thrusting himself on some poor defenseless woman.
I mainly like these old sci-fi books for the worlds they create, rather than their out-dated views on woman and non-white peoples.
This book seemed like an afterthought to wrap-up a trilogy. All these books move along at a good clip, but this one seems downright rushed. Like the others in the series, the good guys are faultlessly noble, brave, industrious, clever, etc. Also, there is a strong yet tender and devoted woman to fall in love with. If you've read the first two, you might as well finish this one just for completeness because it is so short. Definitely don't read this one our of order.
Heavens, what an abrupt ending. I don't mind some loose threads; after all, life rarely grants us neat, tidy stories wrapped up with ribbon. But I would like something of an denouement. This felt more like running out of word count or allotted pages, or perhaps that the intended 4th installment was cancelled, but its ending tacked onto the 3rd.
The absurdities of the human evolution on Jurassic island continue and take wilder paths than in earlier books. The protagonist finds his true love and they live happily ever after once they've escaped from the captivity in the city of winged humans.
Last book in a trilogy -- and probably the best of the lot. Burroughs we prolific in cranking out these tales. Basically, I am catching up on a lot of his stuff I should have read when I was twelve. 'Entertaining' is probably the best I say about most of his writing.
Audiobook I think this was the weakest of the trilogy. It was okay, but I really wished he stuck with a lost world with a more realistic evolution cycle. The author clearly started with a crazy evolution cycle from the beginning of the trilogy.
Follows the adventures of Bradley and his crew after they get lost. Bradley is captured, escapes, and like the protagonists of the other two books, falls in love with a native. They kill most of the Germans, and everyone from the trilogy goes back to the real world to live happily ever after.
Exciting tale of the final episode of the Caspak trilogy. Truly horrifying but you know the hero must make it through to the end.
I liked how you got to understand more regarding this world. I loved how things all came back together in the end.
I loved this series! Very much in the spirit of Jules Verne! What an imagination!
The events in this book take place the same time as portions of the other two Caspak books. Which makes for a fun and fitting end to the series.
A fun read that epitomizes the Lost World genre of the early 20th century. Burroughs knows how to entertain and this one is timeless like many of his works.
The third and last of the Caspak novels. Last read this series around 1964, still enjoy the novels of Burroughs. Not great literature but fun, escapism from the world around us.
