https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77395.Rainbow_Valley
In this book Anne Shirley is married with six children, but the book focuses more on her new neighbor, the new Presbyterian minister John Meredith, as well as the interactions between Anne's and John Meredith's children.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و پنجم ماه سپتامبر سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: دره رنگین کمان - آنی شرلی کتاب هفتم؛ نویسنده: لوسی مود مونتگمری؛ برگردان: فریده مهدوی دامغانی؛ تهران، آسیم، 1385؛ عنوان: دره رنگین کمان؛ نویسنده: لوسی مود (ال.ام.) مونتگمری؛ مترجم: سارا قدیانی؛ تهران، قدیانی، 1386؛ در 400 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1388؛ شابک: 9789645361943؛ چاپ پنجم 1392؛ دره «رنگین کمان» نام محل مورد علاقه ی فرزندان «آنی» برای بازی است.
داستان با دوستی چهار بچه، با فرزندان آنی ادامه مییابد.
To catch you up - book 6 of ANNE of Green Gables  demoted Anne to a secondary character and her six precocious (obnoxious) children shared the spotlight.
Montgomery doubled the amount of precocious children and shoves Anne's kids off to the side.
Me. Anne's kids are secondary to the "Mary-Sue" Meredith clan - a wholesome, cherub-faced group of sorely neglected children who adore their minister father and God with all their heart.
I don't mind reading religious books and quite like how it was handled in the first couple of Anne of Green Gables.
If the last book wasn't really about Anne, this go-round isn't even about Anne's children.
He can frequently be found with his nose buried in a book.
(I can relate.) Though an elderly, bumbling relative is attempting to care for them, the kids are mostly bringing up themselves.
Seeming an awful lot like a certain girl once called "Carrots," Faith gets into scrapes, takes dares, and makes bold, persuasive speeches to her elders.
While this is certainly not the best of the series, it's a decent enough outing with lots of love and laughs.
It provided just the escape I needed from the anxieties of the modern world.
Rilla's hair is a softer red, and neither of the Meredith sisters has red hair.Till my dying day I will be puzzling over this...I like things to make sense, for heaven's sake.Ah well, it's the wonderful book that counts: as always, LMM's powers of description shine out.
In addition, a chapter or two from Anne's persepective, in which Faith or another Meredith comes to her for a talk, would be nice.
I feel like "Did I miss something, skip a chapter?" I don't get to see any of the dialogues Mr. Meredith has with Rosemary, or Ellen.
How I wish, too, that there was another book between Rainbow Valley and Rilla of Ingleside that shows all of the Blythes and Merediths growing up!
The Blythes are living in Four Winds and life is going great.
They've befriended the local pastor and his family-- The Merediths.
The Meredith family is very endearing.
My favorite part was when Faith went into Norman Douglas' house and made her demands, and also the rooster Adam.I missed the Blythes in this book, particularly Anne.
It seemed like the focus has shifted and while it was endearing, it was also slow moving and lacked the spark that Anne Shirley always managed to bring.
Full (mini) review now posted!If the previous book was more about Anne’s children than the woman herself, this installment was more about the children’s new neighbors than the children themselves.
As with all of the Anne books so far, everything ends up working out just fine.
While I would’ve loved more Anne in this story, they new little cast of characters Montgomery created were delightful, especially paired with appearances from characters I’ve grown to love as the series progresses.
I can see why some Anne purists wouldn’t love this one, but it still worked for me!
I read the previous books in the ANNE OF GREEN GABLES series by L.M. Montgomery a few years ago now ...
<3333 I love their darling romance!Gilbert and Anne's children were lovely!
Hopefully they'll get better in the next book.Rainbow Valley was a pretty slow-paced read, but that's generally how the ANNE OF GREEN GABLES series is.
While I feel there are some poignant (though subtle) faith themes running through Rainbow Valley, the characters do have a rather careless attitude when it comes to loving your enemies/turning the other cheek/forgiving wrongs/treating others as better than yourself.
~4.5 stars~Ok I'm going to be honest, this wasn't my favorite Anne of Green Gables book...it was cute with all of the kids and it was interesting to learn more about the Blythe children, but the majority of the time this was about their neighbors, the Merediths. I'm not saying it was terrible, because it wasn't...it just wasn't as good as some of the others in my opinion...please don't get mad at me for those who LOVED this one hehe xD
Like I always say, children are the best form of birth control.
Even imaginative, sweet-natured children.
how I laughed uproariously over your plight, though I gathered from the soulful prose that I was meant to feel sorry for you.Seven books in, and I can't stop wondering what Anne was like in bed.
It made me think of the horrible Victorian values that are with us still, in their myriad stifling forms.
I suppose Vicki really did just close her eyes and think of England.
I wonder what Liz thinks of the whole reproductive process.
I honestly kind of wish Montgomery would have written a spin off book or two about him, because he's such a nice guy, but my one disappointment with this series is that we've never gotten to know him quite as well as Anne.The Ingleside kids are still likable as well.
He seemed to be such a nice guy who, like I said above, loved his kids to bits and also seemed to be a genuinely good minister, but he was so distracted as to be ridiculous.
I think that is why I often felt as if Anne of Ingleside was more dark than the earlier books in the series.This novel though it proclaims it is an Anne of Green Gable book really has very little Anne or Gilbert.
I am sure that was the prevailing attitude back then, but it did not make it any easier to read.Second, I have read I believe the majority of the short stories that L.M. Montgomery published.
All in all a good read for those that want to catch up (as much as they can) with Gilbert, Anne, and their children.
LMM's stories are the absolute loveliest. I just adore her characters! This book is cute and funny and mostly light-hearted, which is exactly what I needed.
At first glance it almost seems too much, as if the characters are unbelievable because the world isn't so bright and good all the time.
But L.M. Montgomery doesn't avoid writing about characters that suffer, she just refuses to dwell on the misery in life.
It makes me feel like some of our authors today try too hard, spend too much detail on the horribleness of life.
I wish more modern authors would take after L.M. Montgomery's style, that a character's life doesn't have to be perfect, but the character can still be strong and get through it...
I didn't expect to love the Meredith children (and unforgettable Mary Vance) so much, but I found them charming.
This whole book was really delightful--filled with so much childhood innocence and gentle humor.
This book had a central plot and was better constructed than the previous volume in the series.
Montgomery was definitely preparing her readers for the looming cloud of war that shakes the world in the next book.
That hint of gritty reality is so different than anything she has included in the series thus far.
But in this book we get to savor one last romp with childhood wonder.
This has always been one of my least-favorites of the series, but I reread all the Anne books this past week and couldn't leave this out.I might be a completionist, but still: a reread in the order I just read maybe isn't the most coherent?
But Mr. Meredith's relationship with Rosemary West is sweet, even if it's a little reminiscent of Windy Poplars (remember the story with Janet and John, who swore to his dying mother that he wouldn't marry and ~bring another woman into the house, and then his mother lived for twenty more years?) - but I really liked Rosemary - and Uma - and I found that charming regardless.This feels more like a collection of stories that would typically appear in the middle of House of Dreams or Ingleside, and not be its own book.
Across the way is the manse in which lives the head-in-the-clouds minister John Meredith and his four "varmint" children.
Anne herself barely features and her children are merely background characters to the impossibly precocious manse children.
Here's why the pacing of this didn't work for me in this book but worked fine in Anne of Green Gables: between misadventures, Anne learns and grows as a character.
The Merediths don't grow or change or learn anything: they realize they need to do those things but without any actual influence in their lives, they're left to spin and fall into new scandals on the same scale and it gets old, fast.
I think partly I love it because the children are the focus now--none of the indecision of the previous book, although there are of course digressions that focus a bit on Anne, and a few that focus on Mr. Meredith and the West sisters and a few other choice adults.
I just LOVE the addition of the Meredith family to the Ingleside cast, and even though we really don't get to see their visits, it makes me deeply happy to know that the Blythe family still goes back to Avonlea to visit rather regularly.
Overall, a bit better than Anne of Ingleside — the Blythe kids are more interesting in this book, and the Meredith children are a lot of fun.
At the very least, he could apply to one of his neighbors for advice — the Blythes live quite nearby, for example — or he could shell out the money for a good housekeeper; there’s no hint that this would be impossibly expensive for him.
I thoroughly loved this!
It was funny and the characters were charming, particularly Norman and Ellen.
I just LOVED their romance.
What started out funny quickly became full-blown neglect, and no one did a damn thing about it.
"I saw the main street in Charlottetown once and I thought it was real grand, but I s'pose it's got nothing on heaven.""We are bringing ourselves up, you know, because there is nobody to do it."Faith says a variation of this to Mr Meredith about three times and he feels HORRIBLY GUILTY and then does fuck-all about it.
I sometimes think you have to be in a certain mood to enjoy the Anne books.
It took me almost half the book to warm up to these characters.
But by then I'd come to love the pastor's children with all of their quirks and troubles.
Even sardonic, sensible Susan (with her annoying habit of addressing Anne as "Mrs. Dr.
dear") found a place in my heart as she knit a pair of stockings for Faith because "Susan never worried over poor humanity.
Review to come.
This book follows the adventures of Anne and Gilbert Blythe's 6 children as they grow older and meet the mischievous Meredith clan.
The children's adventures are amusing, but the core of the book for me was really the would-be romance between Mr. Meredith and Rosemary West.
The Blythe children lack any kind of meaningful adversity; their lives are essentially perfect.
I will also echo the sentiment found in others reviews that it's a shame that we don't hear more about Anne herself or about any of the folks at Green Gables.
Sono quattro stelle piuttosto scarse, in realtà.Stavolta ho avvertito qualche scricchiolio perché no
I feel like I would've liked this one better if it hadn't been labeled as an Anne book.
I mean going into it I didn't expect it to really focus on Anne much, but almost none of her or her children played any part of the story whatsoever.
The Blythes had cameos, but nothing more.
Instead we mainly follow the Meredith children, and while they were adorable and sweet, I had no connection with them, and when I was expecting an Anne book, it was very disappointing.
There were a lot of great moments in this book though.
This is actually more of the story of a widowed pastor's children and a runaway, but Anne's children also play a part in it.
More beautiful writing with characters to fall in love with and a setting which you wish you could jump into!
There is an undercurrent of change running through the book.
Even though it was finished shortly after World War I, it takes place before the war, but more than once a hint of what's to come is given which makes it all the more poignant.
With only one more book left to read in the series, I'm already feeling sad to be leaving my visits with Anne and her family!
خب اين كتاب نه تنها آنه حضورش كم بود بلكه بچه هاى آنه هم نقش زيادى نداشتند. بيشتر از هر چيز ماجراى كشيش جديد و فرزندانش بود.درست است كه اين كتاب هفتم، شباهت خيلى كمترى به كتاب هاى قبلى مجموعه ى آنه شرلى داشت، اما از اين ماجراهاى كوچك و بانمكش لذت بردم و خيلى زود كتاب را تمام كردم.
LOVE IT LOVE IT LOVE IT. I love all the children (except Mary Vance) and how brave my darling Walter is and John and Rosemary's romance (it's my favorite 'side' romance in the whole series, I think). Almost everything about this book is sweetness and adorableness. <333333
I want to wallop Mary Vance and I wish there was more Anne. I miss my Anne Girl.
The minister, John Meredith, has four children, Jerry, Carl, Faith and Una. These children get in so many scrapes reminiscent of what Anne got into in the first two books, but with them it's more because they have no firm hand guiding them.
John Meredith investigates, and finds out the foster-mother has since died, and eventually Mary ends up adopted by the least likely people of all....
From a character, Ellen West, stating her disdain for the Kaiser of Germany, to the end pages where the boys talk of how they would fight and have grand adventures in some amorphous, fictional war, like in the stories.
I was a little apprehensive going into this one, when I found out that it wasn’t really about the Blythes, but honestly, reading about the Meredith children brought a breath of fresh air to the series! I appreciated Mr. Meredith especially. Most characters in the Anne series are either good, bad, or misunderstood, and Mr. Meredith broke that mold.”We miss so much out of life if we don’t love.”
