https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122421.Asterix_and_the_Banquet
It was first serialized in Pilote magazine, issues 172-213, in 1963.عنوان: ماجراهای آستریکس و ابیلیکس کتاب 05 - آستریکس سفر به دور گال؛ نویسنده: رنه گوسینی؛ ماجراهای آستریکس و ابیلیکس کتاب 05 - آستریکس و مهمانی ویژه؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: چهارم ماه می سال 2004 میلادیعنوان: ماجراهای آستریکس و ابیلیکس کتاب 05 - آستریکس سفر به دور گال؛ نویسنده: رنه گوسینی؛ مترجم: مهدی شاه خلیلی؛ تهران، تاریخ و فرهنگ، 1383؛ از ماجراهای آستریکس و ابیلیکس کتاب 05؛ در 48 ص؛ مصور رنگی؛ گروه سنی ج د؛ شابک: 9647135696؛ موضوع: داستانهای فکاهی مصور از نویسندگان فرانسوی قرن 20عنوان: ماجراهای آستریکس و ابیلیکس کتاب 05 - آستریکس و مهمانی ویژه؛ نویسنده: رنه گوسینی؛ مترجم: فریبرز افروزی؛ تهران، پرتو واقعه، 1381؛ از ماجراهای آستریکس و ابیلیکس کتاب 05؛ در 48 ص؛ مصور رنگی؛ گروه سنی ج د؛ شابک: 9649394834؛ لوسیوس گلباقالوس - فرستاده ی ویژه ی سزار - وارد اردوگاه رومی کامپندیوم میشود تا نارضایتی سزار از تسلیم نشدن دهکده ی گال در برابر قدرت امپراتوری روم را به فرماندهی پایگاه اعلام کند و از او بخواهد که هرچه سریع تر سربازانش را به حمله به دهکده وادارد و تمام گالها را دستگیر کند.
He and his best friend Obelix (don’t call him fat!) will go on a tour of Gaul, collecting the finest regional food and drink and bring them back to the village for a banquet, proving that they are free to move within their own country, stockade or no.
I’m not saying it’s right but it’s worth noting that this book was published in 1963 and that was still more-or-less the norm of how black people were portrayed in comics so it probably doesn’t reflect the creators’ beliefs (I even remember getting Gollywog badges from Robertson’s Golden Shred marmalade in the ‘90s - that’s how long these negative images persisted!).
Ούτε που θυμάμαι πότε ήταν η τελευταία φορά που διάβασα Αστερίξ. Πολύ ωραίο, ευχάριστο και εξαιρετικά ψυχαγωγικό, ό,τι πρέπει για να σου φτιάξει το κέφι. Σίγουρα υπάρχουν και καλύτεροι τόμοι, όμως ως κόμικ είναι αν μη τι άλλο απολαυστικό. Ήθελα να ήξερα γιατί τόσο καιρό παραμελούσα τόσο τη σειρά του Αστερίξ, όσο και αυτή του Λούκυ Λουκ... Φέτος θα επανορθώσω!
Ich kam aus dem Schmunzeln nicht mehr heraus und amüsierte mich köstlich über die spitzfindigen Aussagen und Dialoge sowie die aberwitzigen Situationen, in denen die Römer und die beiden Gallier aufeinandertreffen.Meine Lieblings-Sprechblasen, natürlich von Heuchlerix, wurden:(während er den Verrat plant) "Ich bin ein schlechter Mensch, aber die muss es ja auch geben.
Ich hab Asterix an die Römer verkauft, die haben ihn in die benachbarte Garnisonsstadt geschleppt …"(nach der Abreibung Obelix') "Nie mehr werde ich meine Landsleute verraten.
Desafiados por un inspector general romano, Asterix y Obelix parten en un recorrido por los pueblos de la Galia para armar un banquete con la especialidad de cada ciudad para demostrar que son libres de andar por su tierra. Brilla siempre el humor y el aporte histórico enseñando dichos, costumbres de entonces.
Another bet, another victory over the Romans21 July 2012 For some reason after rolling on the floor in laughter with Asterix the Gladiator this one seems to pull back a notch. I guess one of the problems was that we are sort of introduced to Fulliautomatix in this book but it is not the Fulliautomatix that we know and love. In fact when he appears he pretty much looks like the standard Gaul. However this is still one of the earlier albums so the concept is still in development. The Romans come u
This album sees the first appearance of Dogmatix, Obelix's dog.
However, neither Obelix or Asterix seem to actually realise that there is this little dog following them all over Gaul, that is until they get back to the village and Dogmatix barks attracting Obelix's attention.
What Asterix and Obelix are doing is demonstrating that there is nothing the Romans can do to keep them bottled up, and as they continue travelling around Gaul you see a larger and larger following in support of them.
Note to self - never place blind trust in someone named Uptotrix.
Using names as character tells is an old storytelling device.
Goscinny uses the device repeatedly to make groan-inducing puns.
Threats of force only propel Asterix and Obelix further along the path of insurgency.
Here's a challenge from empire:"Since you're so clever, by Minerva, I'm shutting you up in your village!
You'll have to be self-sufficient and live on the produce of your own village!
It's interesting that French national Goscinny's writing Asterix as the French government is licking its wounds from defeats at the hands of insurgencies in Algeria and Indochina.
I've been meaning to read Asterix for years but it seems every time I see a copy of this at a library its in the original language (I had that same problem with Tin Tin).
I guess because I live in (supposedly) bilingual Canada, the authorities that be have decided that children should read french.
I, unfortunately, didn't learn french, I just simply found a translation.
Its a fun book, with some cool characters and awesome drawings.
As it is I got bored of it half-way through, when I had figured out the formula and realized there were going to be no major surprises and the two main characters were not going to have any real challenge.
Very, very funny, maybe the funniest Asterix I have read up till now! And - is it my impression, or this is the first time Ideafix appears? Although throughout the whole story he keeps following Obelix but he appears not to notice him yet...Very funny! Worth reading...Maria Carmo,Lisbon, 25 May 2015.
Not one of the best Asterixes, but lots of fun anyway.
Actual rating: 3.50
Nice!
Asterix and Obelix and of course the little Dogmatix makes the first Tour De France to win a culinary bet, (collecting the specialities of the regions) with the Romans. The "Tour De France" before the Tour De France, is based on a very clever idea, but I don't know... may be it's my lack of knowledge of France, I personally feel this is one of those comics where the complete appreciation of all the jokes and puns may only be found in the original French.
The Romans in the attempt to confine the Gaulish village they order for a stockade to be built around the village. Nobody goes in, nobody goes out ... Theoretically of course... A bet is made between the Romans and Asterix that they can go around on a tour of Gaul, collecting the finest traditional food and drink of every region for the banquet they will throw right after their return by winning the bet.
The Gauls are being literally walled in. Asterix challenges the Roman General Overanxius that he an Obelix can pass the walls, travel across Gaul collecting gourmet regional delicacies and return to the village to host a Banquet. Violence and humour follow. An interesting list of delightful PDO products - Humbugs really? Features an early appearance by a yet unnamed Dogmatix (or a relative).
Wow what a crazy prefect ! First he sends all of the Roman legions in Gaul to chase Asterix and Obelix just because he doesn't what to loose his bet and then he puts a stockade around the village after Asterix has left!
Funny and with no shortage of puns. a good read for all ages.
Una buona storia, un poco celebrativa della gastronomia francese e del Tour de France, nel complesso decisamente divertente.
The Babette's Feast of the Asterix series.
Asterix makes a bet with a Roman officer, saying he and Obelix can tour Roman-occupied Gaul collecting local specialities for a banquet.
Un susseguirsi di episodi tenuti insieme solo dal pretesto del giro di Gallia. Gli episodi, però, sono di alto livello!
These are just great comics!Humour for all ages! I read them with my son and we both giggle away at the jokes!!!Enjoy!
Παρόλο που δεν είχε κάποιο αξιοπρόσεκτο σημείο (πέρα ίσως από το καρέ της σελ. 14 που παρκάρει το μικρό κάρο με οπισθογωνία :) ) γενικά ήταν ευχάριστο στην ανάγνωση. Το σκίτσο του Ουντερζό είναι πλέον πλήρως κατασταλαγμένο και στη σελ. 13 στην είσοδο του μαγαζιού με τα αλλαντικά-τρόφιμα στέκεται ένα άσπρο σκυλί το οποίο στην συνέχεια ακολουθεί τους δύο Γαλάτες. Δεν είναι άλλος από τον Ιντεφίξ και εδώ έχουμε την πρώτη του εμφάνιση. Μέχρι στιγμής και με σειρά προτίμησης:Οι δάφνες του ΚαίσαραΟ Αστερίξ μονομάχοςΟ γύρος της ΓαλατίαςΤο χρυσό δρεπάνιΑστερίξ ο ΓαλάτηςΑστερίξ και οι Γότθοι
অযাসটেরিকস মানে অাসাধারণ
অ্যাস্টেরিক্স মানে অাসাধারণ
If I could, I would rate it 6 stars. This comic is over 50 years old, and it's still so incredibly funny. It proves to be a timeless classic!
Die Pax Romana sorgt für gutbesuchte Kneipen, hübsche minirockbekleidete Flaniererinnnen am Strand und ein ingesamt sehr relaxtes Lebensgefühl der Gallier, die sich mit der Eroberung mehr oder weniger abgefunden haben.Trotzdem - der sportliche Ehrgeiz bringt sie dazu, Farbe zu bekennen, als Asterix und Obelix auf den Etappen ihrer Tour durch Gallien die leckersten Spezereien der an Gaumenfreuden damals schon nicht sparsamen französischen Küche aufsammeln.
Und da gibt es natürlich auch noch die Römer, die, wie ihre Kollegen aus Aquarium, Petibonum und Babaorum erst noch auf die harte Tour lernen müssen, dass Obelix es ganz und gar nicht mag, wenn man ihn "fett" nennt...Eins stört mich aber schon sehr: Dieser seltsame, weiße, kleine Hund, der seit Lutetia Asterix und Obelix dauernd hinterher rennt...
Asterix challenges the Romans that as a Gaul, he will go wherever he likes and will prove it by going on a tour of Gaul and bringing back delicacies from various parts of the country.
Obelix joins him in the journey and, in a hilarious side-story where he is completely ignored, Dogmatix joins the team outside a butcher shop in Lutetia.One problem for a non-French fan (like me) is the lack of familiarity with France and the modern-day references, which makes the story more bland than it would otherwise be.
The only places I knew anything about were Paris (Lutetia) and the vacation spot of South France.
It also prevents any character other than Asterix and Obelix from having a huge role in the story.
"All Gaul is at peace with the liberating Roman Army, except this one little village of dissidents."After he fails to battle them into submission he has another idea.
"We shall isolate the Gaulish village from the outside world.
The outside world will forget you."Asterix has other ideas though and makes a bet that he and Obelix will be able to escape, go on a tour of Gaul and return with all the local food specialties from all over Gaul as prove, serving them in a big banquet.
Rene Goscinny and Albert Uderzo, Asterix and the Banquet (Orion, 1965)I decided to re-read all the Asterix books I'd read, and read the ones I hadn't, back in 2004.
I tracked down Mansions of the Gods in 2007, but Asterix the Legionary and Asterix and the Banquet, for some reason, have been well-nigh impossible to find.
I struck it lucky this time, and got hold of Asterix and the Banquet.
There is, of course, a plethora of opportunities for bad puns, silly jokes, and all the other hallmarks of the series.
If you like the rest of the series, this one's a gimme.
The Roman legionaries stationed near the Gaulish village are paid a visit by Inspector General Overanxius.
It seems the Inspector General is new to these parts, as he is troubled by the fact that one small Gaulish village has still not surrendered to the Romans.
Asterix and Obelix meet his challenge and have a bet with him that they would tour all the Gaul villages, collecting the specialities of the regions, and on concluding their tour, they will organize a banquet where the Inspector General will be invited.
If they succeed, the Inspector will admit defeat.
