https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/171471.The_Spine_of_the_World
Too often, I read these as a way to kill time or because there is nothing else to read and although there are variations and plot specifics, the stories usually have the same general idea- some hero (or group of heroes) goes off in search of some magical item or to stop some supernatural bad guy or occasionally to rescue a friend.
The Spine of the World brakes away from the basic cookie cutter motifs and presents a story that is at once realistic and yet fitting with the Forgotten Realms series.
All the typical fight scenes and magical encounters one would expect from such a book are also present but they serve as a sort of back drop to the main story and are by no means the focus.
I was a little disappointed by this one. No Drizzt. The focus lies on Wulfgar and his character development. The other plot line is a very predictable love/"poor girl turns princes" story I really disliked, but I think it serves as a basis for many future plot strands. Although the story about Wulfgar was well done it just couldn't carry the novel.Off to next book!

'The Spine of the World' is the second book in the Paths of Darkness series.
I loved the first book 'The Silent Blade.' So what happened?Well, while I love the barbarian Wulfgar, Drizzt and the rest of the crew disappear from this offering.Wulfgar, sinking ever lower in his self-imposed exile, drinking himself to an attempted path of forgetfulness, which doesn't ever work, the demon Errtu's torture following him still, is framed for murder.
Wulfgar and his only remaining friend, Morik the Rogue, who has to stay by his side thanks to some pesky dark elves threats, are tortured in the Prisoner's Carnival in Luskan.
and Wulfgar is still a great character as is Morik, but the pace and direction of this book was weak overall.
This one was a surprisingly fast read (just more than two days), considering that Drizzt had no part in the story whatsoever, save the thinly placed reference to him; it was a story in which his legacy did the driving and other characters affected and were affected by the plot.
No recycled plot, no tripish return to the “old days” of tIDT: this novel is the continuing part of a very good story about a dark elf and his friends, and the changes that they go through in their lives together.
When I first read, the Spine of the World, I hated it.
Changing the main character from Drizzt to Wulfgar, drunken ass of a Wulfgar for that matter, felt really stupid.
But after reading the book couple of times, I really started appreciating the story.
Unlike other books in the series, The Spine of the World isn't as high fantasy as all the others.
It has less magic and monsters and more political scheming.
It's a nice breath of fresh air during the series.Although The Spine of the World does have one of the most annoying characters I have ever faced in literature.
I was confused for most of this story. Drizzt and his group are not mentioned at all. The story is about Wulfgar and a side story of new characters.The ending redeemed the story and Wulfgar's dreadful decline in his actions and personality due to his tortured memories. The ending took a story I was going to rate at 3 stars and brought up to 5.
Since deciding to go back and read the Legend of Drizzt in its entirety, I have found it difficult to be engaged in the story and care about what is even going on. It wasn't until this book that I truly felt engrossed in the story and was actually glued to the book, wanting to know what was going to happen next. Heres to hoping that the rest of the books in the series can keep me as glued as this one did.
This has been my least favorite in the Drizzt series thus far. Nothing will stop me from continuing the series, however, because I know that eventually Salvatore's writing rises to the caliber that I first experienced in the Legend of Drizzt series with Homeland and Sojourn. Looking forward to getting back to Drizzt and his adventures.
It seemed as if Salvatore was telling two completely different stories within the same book.
Although I do not always care for romance books, I was still interested to see where Salvatore was going with the self-loathing alcoholic Wulfgar.Needless to say, Salvatore brilliantly combined the two strikingly different stories into one, making the whole love story essential for Wulfgar's redemption.
And although he didn't have to, since the ending was already delightful as is, Salvatore ends off the book with obvious evidence that there will be a crazy awesome sequel to follow in the future!
Nor just because he saves Peasant John.
A Hero can only be a hero because Peasant John's life has a meaning of its own, the whole of its woes and joys known only by Peasant John himself.
He is a Hero because, despite knowing little about Peasant John, he is willing to sacrifice himself for him anyway.This is a great story for Wulfgar.
It renewed my faith in Salvatore as an author.
Prolific commercial authors such as him are bound to have highs and lows, and that's definitely a high.
This book has a courageous shift in narrative that breathes some much-needed life into the world around his characters.
The Spine of the World 1999 yılında R.A. Salvatore tarafından yazılmış Forgotten Realms dünyasında geçen bir fantastik kurgu kitabıdır.Kitabın serilerdeki yeri; Path of Darkness serisinin ikinci kitabı ve büyük The Legend of Drizzt (Drizzt Efsanesi) serisinin ise 12.
kitabıdır.
Diğer kitaplardan farklı olarak bu sefer ana kahraman Drizzt ortalarda yoktur, Errtu’dan çektiği işkencelerden kurtulan ve tekrar arkadaşlarının arasına dönen Wulfgar çektiği işkenceler sebebiyle kendini kaybettiğini düşünmektedir ve arkadaşlarından ve kendisinden kaçarak Luskan’ın sokaklarında bir hayat yaşamaya çalışır.
Burada kendisini bulmaya çalışmaktadır, ancak ne kadar kaçmaya çalışsa da orada da belayı bulur.Reviewed on January 03, 2015Plot 6/10Characterization 5/10Style 7/10Setting 6/10Entertainment 6/10Overall 3.0/5.0
Es un mamón este Salvatore... cuando el libro era de los más aburridos del año, le da una vuelta de tuerca, lo pone interesantísimo y te deja con la boca abierta y el mono de seguir leyendo la saga. Se ha ganado una estrellita en las últimas 40 páginas. Pero no por ello olvidaré el sufrimiento de las otras 320.2/5
This was one of the books that keep me away from Forgotten Realms. I enjoyed Drizzt but this tale where the main character is Wulfgar was quite ordinary. A okay story that added nothing and could have been a novella lenght. Wulfgar now a bouncer is robbed of his Aegis-fang and it's time to get it back. Can he bounce back from the beer and his eternal daemons?
Half of this novel was the regular Salvatore adventure, featuring Wulfgar and his inability to battle the demons of his past, with the same levels of thrill and excitement we are use to from the previous books.
I understand how Salvatore wanted to try something new, given this huge and hugely successful series of books but it was such a vastly different feel from the rest of the series that it really didn’t feel like a drizzt book.
I truly believe the events of this book could have been added to the previous book as more of Wulfgars downward spiral instead of spreading it throughout two novels with an unnecessary love story.
Some people may like it but I found it almost completely depressing and such a slog to get through.
It's completely unlike all of the other Drizzt books which have been a joy to read.
Until the last 1/4 of the book it tells 2 completely unrelated stories.
The part with Wulfgar is just depressing.
He's going through PTSD from his torture by Errtu and we get to experience page after page of self-loathing, despair, anti-social behavior, etc.
And the side story is just there to provide Wulfgar with a reason to redeem himself after his horrible behavior.
I should have stopped reading but I kept hoping it would get better.
"Rarely do I find a simple answer to anything concerning human. That, perhaps, is a reason I find little tedium in my day-to-day travels and encounters. That, perhaps, is the reason I have come to love them" (233-234). Rating 4 stars Book Series Book 12 of The Legend of Drizzt series (30+ books). My Thoughts I was surprised by how much I liked this book. Early in the book I thought giving it 3 stars because I found Wulfgar's story tedious and Meralda's story painfully sad. I actually grew to lik
That, perhaps, is a reason I find little tedium in my day-to-day travels and encounters.
That, perhaps, is the reason I have come to love them" (233-234).
Book Series
I was surprised by how much I liked this book.
Early in the book I thought giving it 3 stars because I found Wulfgar's story tedious and Meralda's story painfully sad.
I enjoyed her story more than I expected to despite her not killing dragons or swinging a sword.
And Wulfgar's story was a bit disappointingly redundant in the beginning.
Wulfgar's daily events were a never-ending cycle.
It was a 5 star ending to a 4 star book.
This was a tough book to get through.
It addresses the difficulty of coping with PTSD, unexpected pregnancies and while those are valid themes, I seek fantasy for escapism and adventure.
It was mostly torture, anguish and impending doom.
There’s an interesting slice of character building for Jarlaxle but outside of that i did not have much fantasy to chew on.
The Auckney storyline was not attractive to me and while the characters were well done, it was not a world I looked forward to come back to.
Morrick the Red is an interesting character and presents humorous moments.
After enjoying the preceding volume, The Silent Blade, this was a bit of letdown in the Drizzt series.
Let's be frank: this isn't high art or great literature, but I don't read Salvatore's stuff for great literature.
I read it for some swashbuckling escapism.
But this book, well, wasn't that good.
The chapters with the nobleman going after the peasant girl...uh...really?
Did we need that much set-up for paper-thin side characters?
The whole thing could have been cut way down with that side plot, for sure.
Meh, hopefully the next one will have more action than pathos and attempts at "complexifying" a plot.
It may be part of the Legend of Drizzt saga, but the dark elf ranger doesn't even appear in this.
Instead, it focuses primarily on Wulfgar as he continues to battle his psychological torment at the hands of the demon Errtu.
There's also quite a bit about the fiedom of Auck, which seems way out of left field until Salvatore weaves it into the narrative.Pondersome in some points with Wulfgar sulking around Luskan and the countryside, burying himself in alcoholism, Salvatore once again fleshes out the Forgotten Realms with a good tale, although it's odd to not see Drizzt in his own series!
The book felt out of place and not only because its a legend of Drizzt book with out Drizzt. I hated everyone in this book. Some characters that I liked at the end of the last book seemed to retroactively become worse people. Delly is the best case where as she went out of her way in the previous book to save Wulfgar was mostly just a terrible person in the book. This is easily the worst book in the series.
This is likely the best book out of this trilogy. I'm early into the third but I feel confident saying that because it was one of the better books by Salvatore I have read yet. A BIG saving grace of this was Meralda's story and the eventual blow off. I'm not that interested in Wulfgar. His descent is interesting but not overly interesting enough to warrant it's own book, which is where Meralda came in.
I really enjoyed the maturation of these characters and being with them when they realize, perhaps there is another path. Wulfgar is a great and noble person. I enjoyed reading about his trials and can he possibly find his way out of the darkness, but most of all I liked the physics of interactions; each action beget another and often times more interesting action. Well played Salvatore, well played.
I cannot say I really enjoyed this, Salvatore's writing style is beginning to smell stale and his once epic battle narratives are wearisome and repetitive.Wulfgar is about as deep as a Sahara puddle, he's certainly not charismatic enough to waste a few chapters on, let alone a whole book. However I am looking forward to seeing what happens with the Crystal Shard and the loss of Aegis-fang. Maybe I'm too old for these books nowadays. Or maybe Salvatore has run out of ideas.
50% through this book I gave up and read a summary of the remaining chapters. I understand that this book explains the pain Wulfgar is suffering through and shows his long (oh so very long and very dreary) road toward recovery. The problem is that I didn't find any of the main characters likable and the pacing was rather dragged out and boring. I hope the next book will be better.
Where is WulfgarCan it get any better than that! !!!! HELL YES I SAY. Bring it on Mr Salvatore. Bring it on. Never have I read such magic put down on paper. How many times have I wanted to strangle this "Storyteller" for what he has done to the Companions of the Hall. Reunion I say. Reunion.
Isn't this supposed to be The Legend of Drizzt??? There was no Drizzt in this book. It was mostly Wulfgar along with an NPC story... by the end of the book, I was enjoying Wulfgar finally getting his act together, but I did put this one down a few times.
Not my favoriteWhile I've been a big fan of the Drizzt books I did not enjoy this one, mostly because Drizzt wasn't even in it. I am happy for Wulfgar and his return from his dark place but I didn't at all care for Merelda or her story at all.
Catching up with Wulfgar in this episode. Wulfgar finds himself haunted by his 6 years with Errtu to the point that he must find a new direction for his life. Perhaps meaning to his life, but no harder battle has he fought, and his will to fight is gone.
El peor de todos los libros, solo se salva por el final un poco de cuento de hadas. No voy a extenderme más en hacer un resum, no vale la pena.
