https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30238163-ace-of-shades
Despite Enne’s flaws - namely that she was mucking annoying - she knew how to weasel in and out of a conversation. You know what else is mucking annoying? Made up curse words like mucking! Fictional profanity almost always has me laughing (and not in a good way) but it was especially bad here because “mucking” is almost “fucking” but also hilariously… not.But let's not get hung up on language. The bigger problem is that Ace of Shades is Six of Crows's shallower, less interesting sibling. It wis
It all seemed like a mishmash of boring politics borrowed from other fantasy novels and renamed here.In this world, Enne Salta arrives in the City of Sin (alt-Vegas, basically) in search of her missing mother.
Armed only with a letter in which her mother instructs her to find Levi Glaisyer, Enne must navigate this place of greed and gluttony, casinos and drugs, and uncover the truth about her mother's disappearance as well as her own past.When I read Six of Crows, I kinda forgot that the characters were supposed to be teenagers - I was able to suspend disbelief enough to shrug that detail off - but here it is much more glaring.
I personally consider Amanda Foody to be one of the most talented YA authors to have been published in the last two years.The magic system/talents of this world were FASCINATING to me.
(For example, Enne is a Salta which is a dancing talent, but Salta’s are considering among the lower class of dancing families therefore she is treated differently.) I found this system to be immensely complex and intriguing and I cannot wait to see it develop more throughout the sequel.The characters were so wonderful and loveable.
a fantasy Vegas setting. magic. murder. an orphan girl wandering into the City of Sin. a black bisexual gang boss who gets asked why his closet is full of girl dresses and men clothes that don’t even fit him, and casually goes, “yeah well the boys and girls I sleep with sometimes leave their clothes behind what’s up”you really do want to read this book.(on a side note, I genuinely don't understand why this book keeps getting compared to six of crows. the only slight similarity is that both books feature street gangs. that's literally it.)
3.5*
When this book’s synopsis first started circulating the YA book community, I was unspeakably excited for it. A book about dangerous gangs and gambling, with a bi young man of color as one of the protagonists? Sign me up! Unfortunately, this book suffered the same problem I have with the author’s debut, Daughter of the Burning City—it has a lot of cool ideas at play, but the execution leaves a little bit to be desired. The photograph of Luckluster Casino matched the stories of New Reynes: red lig
The story alternates perspectives, and first, we have Levi Glaisyer, lord of the Irons gang, orb-maker, and criminal genius.
Again, much like with Levi’s progression, it all felt very insincere and forced to me.Another complaint I had about the story is minor, but applied to the entire cast of characters pretty evenly: the made-up swears in this book are nearly unbearable.
That said, I can easily see this story becoming a quick favorite for a lot of readers—especially anyone who enjoys casino settings, and does not mind slightly underdeveloped storytelling and world-building.
I was so glad to get this book in my Owlcrate! Click on link below picture to see the unboxing. THE STUFFWell, I'm freaking bummed! I loved Daughter of the Burning City but this book didn't do it for me. Oh well, hopefully I will love her next book like I did her debut book!Happy Reading! Mel 🖤🐾🐺
The mystery was a major aspect of the book but the fantasy wasn't overshadowed and played a major role in maintaining the intrigue surrounding the story.
He was dragged into a scam that is most likely going to get him killed and in working his way to save his life he hasn't been able to benefit the gang he is supposed to lead.Both Enne and Levi are going to work toward their goals but as they do so they both get dragged into something they may not be able to get out of.The fantasy element of this book is that every person has 2 talents one blood talent and one split talent.
“The City of Sin was a game, but not everyone was a player.”  Ace of Shades was for sure not what I was expecting.
Some said it was like one of my favorite series of all time, Six of Crows, but I didn’t see that.
A lot of people said it had a setting like the city I live in currently, Vegas, and I suppose I see it, but it is a stretch and for sure a very big fantastical interpretation and based on every stereotype you think of when you think of Vegas (which are mostly all untrue).
I mean, mayb
A lot of people said it had a setting like the city I live in currently, Vegas, and I suppose I see it, but it is a stretch and for sure a very big fantastical interpretation and based on every stereotype you think of when you think of Vegas (which are mostly all untrue).
And even though, Levi is not the easiest person to like at first, we soon find out he is a leader of one of the three gangs in New Reynes!
And they soon realize that there are much bigger problems in the City of Sin than these three gangs.
The plot is full of twists and turns, the foreshadowing is excellent, and it sets the scenes so well: murder card games, con schemes gone wrong, cabarets, magic and mayhem and murder, casinos and card games and gangsta hats and cherries and lush hotels and absolutely disastrous curses.SMOL LIST OF OTHER THINGS TO LOVE: ☆ every time Levi and Enne breathe☆ Raymond getting frustrated because Levi and Enne are supposed to be scheme but Levi's off kissing boys and Enne's getting drunk and girl-advice about lipstick and murder☆ every time Enne stabs something and is like "well they had it coming"☆ unapologetic love of cookies☆ beautiful and respectful diversity rep (POC, bisexual lead, gender-fluid secondary character)☆ every time Levi is a sweetheart☆ every time Enne exists☆ the delightful twists☆ card games of DEATH☆ my heart beating out of my chest+ Honestly there are no downsides.Ohhh well I mean I laughed at the "muck" instead of fuck, but I do understand.
I'm not here to deter anyone from picking this up, as I think the main reason I didn't enjoy this was purely based on reading preferences and nothing actually harmful from the book itself.
In fact, even though some of the content was slightly unsettling, I think the younger side of YA may enjoy this more than those closer to the NA age.
Again, I definitely think this is just a matter of opinion and I genuinely wish any and all readers more success with this book than I had.
she was a pistol wrapped in silk. she was a blade disguised as a girl alright alright alright listen up, listen here. This book is a whole lotta fun and I thoroughly enjoyed it! In fact I'm eagerly awaiting the official release so I can read a completed physical edition. WHAT IS ACE OF SHADES?🃏 a dark, complex, fantasy world where gangs run the streets and lure unsuspecting visitors into their gambling parlours, where crime rules and turf wars brew and at the heart of it all, a deadly history n
WHAT IS ACE OF SHADES?🃏 a dark, complex, fantasy world where gangs run the streets and lure unsuspecting visitors into their gambling parlours, where crime rules and turf wars brew and at the heart of it all, a deadly history no one wants to talk about🃏 a girl called Enne, who's looking for her mother in the City of Sin, and gets a lot more then she bargained for🃏 a black, bisexual boy called Levi, a card dealing extraordinaire, who also keeps a closet full of lost things left behind after nights with strangers because he's just that SUAVE🃏 a deadly game that threatens to take our heroes lives, unless they can do the impossible and win🃏 mysteries, tricks and twists abound!🃏 a book that definitively did NOT rip off soc, 1: because Amanda Foody has been writing this for YEARS and 2: because it's literally not anything like soc, so don't listen to those peoplethis book is a RIDE and I loved it I admit at first it can be kinda hard to get into.
Rating: 3.5 starsI will be doing a full spoiler-free review soon!Review copy provided by publisher in exchange for an honest review.
having seen a lot of negative reviews in regards to how this book was pitched and the comparisons made, i decided to go into this with a completely open mind and no expectations whatsoever - which i think is the only thing you can do in this particular situation.
if i could change anything, it would be the world building as it was a little weak - the reader is kind of just dropped into this city and expected to go along with everything.
which wasnt too bad considering there was a lot happening with the plot and the quick pacing, but like, for example.
Levi stood up and reached for his hat on the table. “Where are you going?” Enne asked. “Out. There are volts to make and people to cheat.” He flashed her a smile. She was lucky he hadn’t cheated her. He was feeling sentimental today. Attempt #2 of reading this book didn't disappoint.I'm kind of relieved to announce that, with a cover and a premise like that, Amanda Foody's Ace of Shades delievers what it promises. Nothing more and nothing less than that, but it surely give its reader what the r
Attempt #2 of reading this book didn't disappoint.I'm kind of relieved to announce that, with a cover and a premise like that, Amanda Foody's Ace of Shades delievers what it promises.
Levi was a favorite and a pleasant surprise, and even if I found Enne a bit stiff and boring during the first half of the book, she really grew on me to the point I completely changed my mind about her, after she embraced the fact that she can be a proper lady and kick ass at the same time.
It's without a doubt the kind of lightness that draws an enormous difference between a book and the other, and that makes Ace of Shades more forgettable but also more easily enjoyable.
Enne and Levi are no Kaz and Inej, but I still loved them and their distinct personalities, especially Enne's cookie eating fetish!The world building was unique, and the author's writing drew me in right away.
The book's romance is more on the side, but I was annoyed every time the characters wanted to kiss and then was like well...
Come on!I also loved Levi's friend Jac. Can he please get some of his own chapters in the next book?
It doesn't really end on a bad cliffhanger or anything but enough to want me to need the next book!!
New Reynes is the City of Sin with lots of casinos and shady activity… So Las Vegas? ACE OF SHADES is not as original as it thinks it is.
Very interesting story, quite unlike anything else I've read before. Really enjoyed my time reading this one.
➳ 2 1/2 starsI solemnly swear that I shall read this without any thoughts lingering on Six of Crows, as in: sans bias.Blog ¦ Bloglovin’ ¦ Tumblr ¦ Instagram
bleh too slow
I was sent this book as an advanced copy by the publisher via Edelweiss for reviewing purposes, but all opinions are my own. AAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHH this book was such a pleasant surprise!!! I haven't read the author's debut yet so I didn't know what to expect, but now I'm looking forward to both continuing the series and keeping an eye out for whatever else she published (as well as reading DotBC).♠  Worldbuilding The story takes place in New Reynes, a town split in two, and specifically almost
He's also black and bisexual (there aren't labels for sexuality in this world but it's pretty clear) and let me tell you how freaking happy it made me to see a male love interest in a YA fantasy who is canonically bisexual and shows attraction to both boys and girls on page.- This first book really focused more on Enne and Levi and didn't leave much space for other characters' development, but I found that the others still had a good characterization and I believe it will only improve in the next installments.

I was so nervous going into this, because every time I desperately want to like something it's normally just okay, but this had me on edge in the best possible way.The world building and detail was so beautifully done, it was picturesque and because of all of the little details you can picture it so clearly, it honestly felt as though I was transported into the book and could see so clearly how everything looked.
Do not believe their smiles. Do not stray into their lairs. Or you may never come out again. 3.75 stars. if you just want to know if this book is like six of crows, click here.This is one of those books which I got really, really excited for, even when it wasn't released yet. Normally, I don't let a book’s popularity affect my reading -- or if it does, it's in a positive way, like how I anticipated The Cruel Prince forever and, truthfully, probably loved it just a little more because of the hyp
enne annoyed me right off the bat, but then i grew to love her more and more, since her character does develop a lot over the course of the book ― but more on that later.
levi as kermit:these characters have some really strong points: enne is a girl, and she is allowed to want things, and allowed to be independent.
by the end of the book, i felt that i knew the four main characters -- enne, levi, jac and lola -- well enough.
— ▸ aside from enne, none of the other characters saw any good development.
They are rather similar in having that slow build, darker young adult tale.The book begins as Enne Salta arrives in New Reynes or what is better known as the City of Sin. Enne’s adoptive mother had often visited New Reynes claiming to be seeing friends and with Enne busy with school she never questioned until now.
With Levi owing a great debt of his own he sees Enne as a means of making what he owes and goes along with her quest even though he’s sure her mother is already dead.Now of course I’ve already said the slow pace within this series is one that I struggle with quite often.
At first I was thinking New Reynes was some dystopian town with casinos, gang lords, corrupt officials and an overzealous policing system then I realised it was much like any major city today only with a slight magical element, an urban fantasy.”Some say the City of Sin is a game, so before you arrive – ask yourself, dear reader, how much are you prepared to lose?” – The City of Sin, a Guidebook.Enne, naive and protected, arrives in New Reynes (The City of Sin) with nothing but her mother’s rules for life and a guide book to The City of Sin. She is there to find her mother who has been missing for some months.Levi, lord of the Iron gang, is a gang leader with a charismatic air and a liking for both males and females.
BR with my twin Scrill
This book keeps getting compared to Six of Crows, but honestly … that’s just going to make the disappointment even more devastating, when everyone realizes it wishes it could even come close to Six of Crows’ level of brilliance. (I’m obviously not at all biased.)tl;dr: let’s find out just how much it pales in comparison. 🙃// buddy read with this dudeBlog ¦ Bloglovin’ ¦ Tumblr ¦ Instagram
DAMN. What a cover.
If Levi Glaisyer doesn't sate my thirst for more Kaz Brekker, I'm suing the publisher for false advertising.
Thieves, rogues, and shady characters have always fascinated me, and so I enjoyed my dive into the morally ambiguous world of New Reynes. House of the Rising Sun meets Six of Crows.
