https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34508.Interesting_Times

I'm not a fan of Rincewind stories to begin with, but this was absolute agony to read. The conflation of all the various Asian cultures into one monoculture is I guess supposed to be parody but now just reads as appallingly racist. Awful, awful, awful.
"Interesting Times" is the fifth book in the Rincewind series, in case you want to read them in order here they are:[Book: The Color of Magic][Book: The Light Fantastic][Book: Sourcery][Book: Eric][Book: Interesting Times][Book: The Last Continent]To fully appreciate this book, I would suggest reading at least the first two of the series first since those are the ones that explain the luggage, develop the chaotic relationship between Rincewind and Twoflower, and introduce Cohen the Barbarian.This particular Pratchett book is a satirizing look at the western view of the Orient (specifically China), revolutions, tourism, barbarism, civility, government in general, and the perception of the elderly.
INTERESTING TIMES by Terry Pratchett has got to be one of the most fun I've had reading since someon gave me the first two books of THE HITCHHIKER'S GUIDE TRILOGY in 1980.
This is the first Discworld novel I have actually read, and I highly recommend it to anyone who wants to sit down with a good book and enjoy the fun.
All I can say after reading INTERESTING TIMES is that it certainly delivers on its promise and has made me want to read all the other Discworld novels in a way those truly magical authors are wont to do to unsuspecting readers.
Ahhh. Gotta love more Discworld. I had this in audio form, kept going on trips that weren't *quite* long enough, and having to restart. Even so, I liked it so much that once I was finished I went straight back and listened to it all again. I love how that's not really a mistake with a Pratchett book - I kept laughing at jokes I'd missed the first time around.
Terry Pratchett's original Discworld protagonist, the sad sack wizard Rincewind goes to the Disc's equivalent of China to meet his old friend the tourist Two Flower.
The book really hook me up at the second half. The first half was a bit chewy to read but for the second half I would definitely give 4 or 5 stars.I noticed that quite many people dislike Rincewind as character; he is indeed quite special but I really love his mindset and his encounters with Death (lovely bloke by the way; you should meet him!).
I mean, it was, of course, fitting that Lord Hong should die, but it would have been *nice* for Twoflowers to get in a couple of swings at least and have it seem like everything is going against him...
but that may also be the fact that I'd read this book before, I knew that Lord Hong was going to die and Twoflowers wasn't, so I was subconsciously unworried.It was also interesting to see the evolution of Hex.
And the Luggage is pure awesome.So, between the choice of main character, and the fact that this seemed to be turning out to be a parody of Chinese history (with random bits of Japan thrown in there, because that's how the West depicts Asia, of course), I wasn't sure if I was going to particularly enjoy this one.However, I think once I got into the jokes about bad translations and the pitfalls of reading and trying to speak a foreign language, I was laughing my head off.
The Unseen University needs to send a wizard - make that 'wizzard' - to the Counterweight Continent.
Using Hex, a complicated new machine that seems to think on its own, they first summon Rincewind from his peaceful island hideout and then blast him into the unknown.Rincewind, as anyone could have predicted, gets into trouble almost immediately.
All Rincewind has had experience in is in avoiding trouble - and he can tell this movement is heading for A LOT of trouble.And then there's the Silver Horde, Cohen the Barbarian's elderly group with their own ideas about storming the palace.
Пътищата пратчетови срещат Ринсуинд с Коен Варварина, 90-95 годишния герой (и той вече не помни на колко е), който е тръгнал да покорява Империята с неговата пенсионерска дружина, наречена Сребърната орда.
Първото име на Коен Варварина е Чингис, което сякаш е своеобразна алюзия за монголските нахлувания в древен Китай.
Или както се споменава в романа: ...хаосът се намира в най-голямо изобилие там, където някой се стреми да въведе ред.
Ще срещнем много географски и културни препратки - тук е великата китайска стена, за която героите се чудеха дали е построена за да предпазва империята от нашествия, или, за да пречи на жителите да не избягат от нея :) Тук е и "Забраненият град", теракотената армия, както и китайската версия на Дилбър Сам Си Прерязвам Гърлото!http://lammothsblog.blogspot.com/2012...
Here are some favorite quotes:"According to the philosopher Ly Tin Wheedle, chaos is found in greatest abundance wherever order is being sought.
If we hung around waitin' till we understood things we'd never get anything done.""That's not magic, that's just engineering!""There was probably something in the idea that there were only a few people in the world.
There was probably some mold somewhere.""Ah Eureka." "That's Ephebian, that is, it means 'Give me a towel'"And there is chocolate available for whoever can give me the reason why that last quote is so funny to me!
I find that Pratchett's earlier work (mostly featuring Rincewind) leaves me cold.His later works are far more sophisticated, with more clever jokes and pointed satire - the ones published at the beginning of his career definitely show his progression from an amateur humorist to a novelist of the highest calibre.
Sadly, Interesting Times is at the lower end of the scale.
There's something special about a book that can have you in fits of laughter for most of it, and then serious as the grave just near the end, making you think really, really deeply about your preconceptions and the philosophies you hold, and then sending you off with a chuckle at the last.
Following the initial Discworld stories, "Color of Magic" and "The Light Fantastic," this is another one that tells of events in the life of the character, Rincewind.
A few other characters which were introduced in the first Discworld books return and are also major players in the story.
(I'll not add any spoilers.) I'm not sure this is one of my favorite story lines so far in my reading of Discworld books, but the reputation of Terry Pratchett's skill with humor and satire is upheld.
Still, I think fans of Terry Pratchett will like it, and I was pleased to keep up with the life of Rincewind.
I just finished rereading this book.
It's a good Pratchett.Lord Vetinari receives a strange message from the Agatean Empire, "Send Us Instantly The Great Wizzard".
You can't be considering to send Rincewind.Why does the Agatean Empire need the Great Wizzard?
All because someone wrote the revolutionary book "What I did on My Holidays".
With revolutionary slogans as "Extra Luck To The People's Endeavour", "Timely Demise To All Enemies", ...
Great Wizzard.
Right?May you live in interesting times" is a translation from an old Chinese curse.
Another translation is "May you come to the attention of those in authority".
I prefer the first translation.
But just when it looks like he'll be living the rest of his days in a small and blissful island, he's chosen by Lady Luck, in a game of chess between the gods, as a pawn in what turns out to be a war of Discworld-ian proportions.On the same side is a group of ancient barbarians - The Horde - who, along with Mr. Saveloy, a school teacher, learn the way of civilisation and how to be 'civilised' barbarians.All in all, this was a great book to read, with all its mocking of the chaos theory and complicated physics.
And, once you're done with the book, you're promised yet another adventure Rincewind just can't escape.May You Live In Interesting Times
Okay, I figured out why I didn't like Terry Pratchett the first time I tried to get into him.
It's because the first time, I tried to start reading the Discworld books in order, and the early Rincewind novels BORE ME TO TEARS.
This one is not super early, but it's not Pratchett at his best either.
I know it's humor, but it seems to me that if you're going to write a full-length novel there should still be some, y'know, actual characterization.
Rincewind isn't even a character, he's a one-line joke, and that gets REALLY OLD after about the tenth time you've heard it.
From now on, NO MORE Rincewind novels.
I can't believe I'm giving a Pratchett book only 2 stars, and wondering if that's not actually one star too many.
This book overflows with sour notes.
The gentle, sly mocking of an entire nation (something Pratchett is quite good at, usually) veers a little too close to hurtful stereotype at times.
In my opinion, they ruin the book; they definitely ruined my reading experience.
An ancient, powerful, but calcifying empire, threatens a smaller but dynamic country and the only thing standing in their way is a wizard with no magical powers, but a hat with the word "Wizzard" written on it, Cohen the Barbarian and his senile Silver Hoard plus the extremely polite children of the revolutionary Red Army!Terry Pratchett is on top form with this book.
The narrative moves at a pace, the humour is constant and there are (in my case anyway) a few "laugh out loud" moments.The Discworld novels are all written so a reader can take a book anywhere in the series and still pick up the overall theme.
Okay, I guess I just don't get it.
This is the third Pratchett book I've slogged through (others are "Monstrous Regiment" and "Guards!
Guards!").
Each time I've picked up one of his books on a "recommedation from a friend, I keep expecting some decent humor in the vein of Goulart or Asprin.
I like British humor.
I'm a huge "Python" and "Black Adder" fan.
I have a very dry sense of humor myself.
But these books barely rate a "tee-hee." I'm sorry, but I do NOT see what makes this guy such a "great" author, other than he has diarrhea of the word processor and produces a multitude of books that some mousy editor gushes over.He's tedious, he's pendantic, he's confusing and he's boring.
Rincewind is back...
and gone again.
Off to the counter-weight continent, a place which resembles our China.
Is Rincewind really the wizard they're after?
Someone from Rincewind's past seems to think so...
Meanwhile, a certain barbarian of legend (he is old enough for it to be legend by now) is learning all about civilization, and is on the counter-weight continent to steal the largest treasure on the landmass.One of the better books with Rincewind, but I do have one complaint: Rincewind was actually more interesting as a character when there was a reason for his inability at wizarding.
Classic Discworld with plenty of Pratchett's usual humor.
This time, its jokes and plot revolve around asian culture, with the majority of the book taking place on the counterweight continent; Discworlds equivalent of, well, Eastern Asia but most predominantly China.
As is often the case with Pratchett, he mostly takes the piss out of the subject matter, in this case the culture..
which is just fine of course if done properly.
However, I thought it fell a bit short this time, often using shallow observations and jokes.
Not his best by any stretch, but definitely enjoyable.
I was introduced to Terry Pratchett about a year a go and after reading "The Fifth Elephant" was instantly hooked. In "Interesting Times", Pratchett paints another of his hilariously satirical scenarios in which his endearing characters find themselves in completely absurd political and personal situations. Pratchett is like Fantasy meets Monty Python meets Franz Kafka. He pokes fun at everything, while treating his readers to a gloriously fun (and very, very strange) yet thought-provoking read. Pratchett's Discworld novels are utterly charming, a refreshing retreat into a world zanier than my own.
I never really liked Rincewind much until this I read Interesting Times.
I can't say why I didn't like him before, or what about this book changed my mind, but change my mind it did.
In a typically madcap Rincewind adventure that explores--though not as deeply as it could, or as I would have liked--just how much control one has over one's life, and how much is influenced by Luck and Fate, Rincewind the Wizzard finds himself thrust into a conflict on the Counterweight Continent.
We see the return of several old friends, like Twoflower and Cohen the Barbarian.
El protagonista vuelve a ser Rincewind, el que inicia la saga.
El imperio de Agatea pide a Ankh-Morpork su gran "echicero" y la universidad invisible decide enviar a Rincewind.
En esta entrega descubrimos que el baúl con patas no es único y que el efecto mariposa es algo más de lo que pensábamos.
;)Otro personaje que me encanta y es protagonista de esta historia es Cohen, un bárbaro ya mayorcito que con su "horda" de abueletes despacha ninjas y samurais como si de colegialas se tratase.
En fin, otras risas de las buenas que hay que agradecer a Terry Pratchett.
My first Rincewind novel.
Unfortunately I read it in German first and it was hardly entertaining.
I switched the the English books soon after that one (iirc the last German Pratchett I read was Hohle Köpfe, Feet of Clay) and it was a complete new experience and I suddenly realised how much damage a bad translator who tries to be funnier than the author can do.
Rincewind is sent involuntary to Bes Pelargic where he meets his old friend Twoflower again.
We also meet Cohen the Barbarian and his grey horde again with their big plans to steal the entire empire...
Of all the Discworld stories that I have read, I really enjoy the Rincewind (and the Luggage) stories.
Poor Rincewind just wants a quiet life, but things just happen to him :-) His most frequest phrase is probably "Ohsh*tsh*tsh*t.
I'm going to die!".I love the way that Terry Pratchett uses a parallel world/life to set up his stories.
This story included the Terracotta army and other chinese-type comparisons.
I won't tell you where Rincewind ends up, but a later story in the series carries his adventures forward (The Last Continent)- clue: kangaroos may be involved!If you love Discworld, I'm sure you will enjoy this.
By this stage in the discworld series, Pratchett has settled into the styel and humour. That said, it's a damn funny read with some 'near the knuckle' jokes.Rincewind is back as is his friend Twoflower from The Colour of Magic. Alongside them, the luggage makes an appearance but doesn't save the day. Instead it becomes a father.Genghiz Coehn and six other heroes make their confident appearance taking on 250,000 soldiers and the usual assortment of villains get their comeuppance.The jokes, puns and sight gags come thick and fast and sometimes left me chortling for several hours afterwards.
Many people don't like the Rincewind series too much, preferring the Death or Watch series', but I think they're fantastic, in the most literal sense.
The joke that Rincewind is a coward and always runs from danger runs a bit thin after the 10,204th time, but his adventures are full of swashbuckling fights, lots of magic and some very inventive fantasy writing.
This book is based on the parody of Asian culture, which is painted with pretty large brush strokes, and of course Rincewind saving the world by being an incompetent coward.
Not the best of them, but pretty close.
I mixed up the order on this book and The Last Continent, reading the later first.
In Interesting Times Rincewind is back again and this time flung into the Agatean Empire, a thinly veiled parody of ancient China.
Add in some aging barbarians (the only highlight of the book for me), the eponymous sapient pearwood trunk and the occasional wizard intervention.
I've said before that the Rincewind books are my least favorite and this book didn't change that attitude.
I'd call the entire book a loss if not for the barbarians.
Later books by Pratchett are stronger and better written and this one feels a bit scattered overall.
