https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47122.Lady_Oracle
The secrets of self... Margaret Atwood has wowed me again, with this quirky 1976 delight. It's surprisingly playful and humorous (for Atwood), but also brings with it her trademark not-messing-around intelligence when it comes to womanhood, self, body and love.Joan is our protagonist, our red-headed Botticellian heroine, who begins the book with this tantalising line:I planned my death carefully; unlike my life, which meandered along from one thing to another, despite my feeble attempts to cont
It's surprisingly playful and humorous (for Atwood), but also brings with it her trademark not-messing-around intelligence when it comes to womanhood, self, body and love.Joan is our protagonist, our red-headed Botticellian heroine, who begins the book with this tantalising line:I planned my death carefully; unlike my life, which meandered along from one thing to another, despite my feeble attempts to control it.Have you ever wanted to start fresh - shed your life like a snake worming out of an old skin, and leave it behind?
Her life dilemmas and torments are intertwined with ludicrous adventures of fictional protagonists from her trashy romances and create, all in all, humorous and warm novel, apparently light but under the surface some deeper thoughts are hidden.It's not the best work of Atwood for sure but it had its moments and left me rather satisfied.
Had I read it at the beginning of my acquaintanceship with Atwood's writing definitely would have been curious how she developed as a writer.
Since I started my adventure with her works with her later and more mature novels I think it was very nice to see her younger self either.3,5/5
The premise of this book intrigued me: a main character with several identities running from all of them by faking her own death - seems dramatic for an Atwood novel.
Although Joan tries to shape some of her identities herself, she can't control or foresee the outcome.
Relationships are though.I liked that the last few chapters were a bit more action filled than usual for Atwood, and more immediate than just looking back on past events, which her main characters does a lot.
All the characters are very well rounded - they all feel deep and like real individuals - one of the things I love about Atwood.
Back in Canada, Foster was hailed as a literary sensation and a major author on the rise, so why did she choose to die at the height of her hype?In many ways, Lady Oracle is the polar opposite of Atwood's previous novel Surfacing.
Lady Oracle is a globe-trotting saga that follows our protagonist from early childhood up to the present day in a style that mirrors the Gothic romances that she secretly authors.
It is as if post-Surfacing she decided to have the literary equivalent of a binge and pen a novel which is essentially all plot and nothing much else.
The reader is first introduced to the present-day protagonist before a rambling exploration of her life is exposed through lengthy flashbacks, that are plotted over the course of the entire novel and require reading right to the very end to discover the entire, buried truth.Also like so many of Atwood's other work, I found this discoursed on much more than just the direct story-line.
Identity crises, familial disquiet, mental illness, and other distressing topics were covered and, in her usual style, I found much was left for the reader to interpret between what the protagonist actually deigned to expose of herself and what the author left for us to puzzle out.

Sickly funny, in a way that's typically attributed only to men. The book begins with the narrator's (a writer of Harlequin romances) own faked death and becomes, finally, a woman writer enjoying her woman-ness, fat jokes and all. You could talk to this book over coffee about things that matter in your life, and it wouldn't start crying and gushing about Oprah. Plus it's got a delicious title. I can't believe it is a second novel.
The main character starts out weak, unself-aware and just really messed up (for plenty of good reason, so I did sympathize with her) -- but nothing has really changed by the end of the book.
She's still messed up and unself-aware.
That probably says a lot for the power of Atwood's writing, I guess.
And the book was good enough to read all the way to the end; Atwood is certainly a good writer.
But I just didn't like anyone in the book, except Aunt Lou, who's a secondary character who doesn't get much page time in the story.
To get away from it all and start fresh, she fakes her death and takes off to a small Italian village, where she gets a chance to think back on exactly how she got there.That sounds simple enough, but in Atwood's hands it turns into a story at once hilarious and tragic.
Running away from a over-bearing mother, from a loathed self-image, from an unsatisfying lover, from a life one perceives as failed: Joan runs, runs, runs and still can't quite free herself.Not one of Atwood's best, but a very interesting and enjoyable book.
This is one of those books that makes you feel kind of intellectual, but doesn't take any effort at all to slip into. Who can't relate to wanting to escape the life that you've built, or let happen, around you, at least from time to time? Atwood is such an accomplished writer that the themes are almost secondary to her skill with the language. A pure pleasure to read.
This is my favourite of Atwood's books, probably because in some ways it's the silliest. Joan Foster is melodramatic and hapless, but entirely loveable. Plus, there's a mystery! And a fake death! And a secret life in a foreign villa! It's kind of like reading a romance novel, only a lot more with the intentional funny.
"Now I wanted to be acknowledged, but I feared it."   Καλογραμμένο όπως κάθε βιβλίο της Atwood που έχω διαβάσει ως τώρα. Με την απαιτούμενη υπερβολή και χιούμορ περιγράφει τις σχέσεις μιας γυναίκας με την οικογένεια της, τους εραστές, τον σύζυγο και τον ίδιο της τον εαυτό. Αγαπάω το χιούμορ της γραφής της, μαύρο και εκκεντρικό. Είναι το πρώτο δικό της μυθιστόρημα που διαβάζω χωρίς να είναι μετα-αποκαλυπτικό ή δυστοπικό και μου άρεσε εξίσου το ίδιο.
4.5 stars! I did love this but I feel like there was *something* missing that I can’t quite put my finger on. Otherwise, classic Atwood, witty, sharp, relentless
And yet, once I’d finished it, I was left having mixed feelings about it.Lady Oracle started off strong, with the first paragraph grabbing my attention immediately.
The story started meandering into directions I was not very fond of – Canadian nationalists, communists, dynamite, enemies leaving dead animal’s corpses on doorsteps… Suddenly there was so much happening, so many unrealistic events making Joan look paranoid, but yet strangely absent-minded and detached at the same time, that I lost that fascination I had in the beginning of the book.
I did not understand why half of the things happened or how they related to the story, nor did I feel they received any closure in the end of the book.
Ligeiro, ligeirinho, demasiado para o meu gosto.
Joan was often oppressed by her mother and her frustration about her daughter's weight, her behavior or anything she saw as a flaw.I believe Atwood described with accuracy and veracity not only the main character's mixed feelings towards her mother, but also about herself and the people/situations around her.The narrator said several times that she had different personalities inside her, and that was right on point.
It had a lot of humor and it was so captivating.Joan was a writer, so there were small excerpts of her novels in the story, and the author managed to create a different style from her own.
«پشت سرم آن همه اتفاق افتاده بود و من بیخبر بودم: خیانتها و قحطیها، کودتاهای دیپلماتیک، قتلهای عقیدتی و کارهای قهرمانانهای که پایانی شوم داشتند. چرا هیچکس به من نگفته بود؟ شاید گفته بودند، اما من گوش نمیکردم. فقط نگران وزنم بودم.»«او زندگیاش را وقف ما کرده بود، او طبق آموزشی که دیده بود، تمام هم و غمّش را برای خانوادهاش گذاشته، و از ما مراقبت کرده بود.»«انگار فقط در مسیر اوجگیری یا در زمان سقوط بود که من برایش وجود داشتم؛ در غیر این صورت، فقط برایش قطرهای مغذّی بودم. روابط عاطیفان هم فقطدر فواصل
فقط نگران وزنم بودم.»«او زندگی‌اش را وقف ما کرده بود، او طبق آموزشی که دیده بود، تمام هم و غمّش را برای خانواده‌اش گذاشته، و از ما مراقبت کرده بود.»«انگار فقط در مسیر اوج‌گیری یا در زمان سقوط بود که من برایش وجود داشتم؛ در غیر این صورت، فقط برایش قطره‌ای مغذّی بودم.
روابط عاطیفان هم فقطدر فواصل زمانی بین اوج و فرودها عینیت می‌یافت.
وقتی در اوج بود، وقت نداشت، و وقتی رو به افول بود، انرژی نداشت.»«مادرم همیشه می‌پرسید: «فکر کردی کی هستی؟» اما هیچ‌وقت منتظر جواب نمی‌ماند.»*اتوود، فمینیستیتش را با نمایش زنی مستقل و موفق به رخ نمی‌کشد.
I’d danced right through the broken glass, in my bare feet too.
Finally you overcame your fear and danced, and they cut your feet off.
The good man went away too, because you wanted to dance.But I chose the love.
A woman who, in her own words, planned her death much more carefully than she planned her life.I have a lot of Atwood on the shelves here at the Shaky Shack and I finally decided it was time to take one out for a spin.
I like some of those books.
I also like books that are a bit....
rip that book apart.
Nunca pensei dar uma classificaçao tao baixa a um livro desta autor, que admiro imenso.O início começou morno e foi logo arrefecendo. As personagens nao tiveram qualquer impacto nem a historia me despertou interesse em momento algum.As ultimas 70 páginas foram lidas na diagonal. Uma leitura muito sofrível.Salvam-no da 1 estrela algumas descrições engraçadas.
But then, as I continue to move through Atwood's body of work, I see her stuff split into two factions: you have the 'issue' novels, like Handmaid's Tale and Oryx & Crake and, to a lesser extent, Robber Bride and Cat's Eye; then there are the sort of 'throwaway' novels that have Atwood's wit and shrewd eye, but don't necessarily come across as politically motivated books.
In these themes, I certainly think Atwood's motive was political, and she handles them far better in "LO" than in "EW." While a lot of reviewers say Joan Foster is a self-pitying wuss, I actually felt she managed to gain a great deal of agency through the text, though of course her obsession with the gothic romance narrative seems problematic on the surface.
Joan Foster is incidentally a closet writer of gothic romances, and many of the parts of her story and interspersed with snippets of the books that she writes as well.Lady Oracle is one of her earliest books, written before her success with The Handmaid's Tale.
It's also interesting to see the way that some of the themes from this early novel appeared later in The Blind Assassin, like the secret novels, the way that the book passages are written into the narrator's life story, and the possible death by drowning.I remember my friend E reading this book and not particularly liking it.
“I knew all about escape, I was brought up on it,” Joan thinks.
Also, fat women are not more noticeable than thin women; they’re less noticeable, because people find them distressing and look away.”“I always knew the right moment to say, ‘See you tomorrow,’ and vanish into the distance like a blimp in a steady wind”“Without my magic cloak of blubber and invisibility I felt naked, pruned, as though some essential covering was missing.”
What a reading pleasure. I love the way Atwood weaves a story within a story and takes you on an enjoyable fantasy journey.
Joan Foster is a confused character that drifts through life, living multiple identities and struggling to keep them separate.
She struggles with friendships, suffers with self-hatred and escapes into a fantasy world where she is accepted and revered.
Atwood writes with a quirky, witty style and I enjoy her unusual characters and scenarios.As we follow Joan's life story, we learn that she has many secrets that she feels compelled to hide.
She escapes into a perfect, fantasy world which she creates through her life as a writer of gothic, romantic novels.
Atwood shows that we are all composed of multiple facets.Joan's messy life begins to unravel and the strain begins to show.
Liūdnas, slogus (bet kažkaip teisingai slogus), vietomis beveik marazmatiškas (bet saikingai marazmatiškas) pasakojimas apie moterį-rašytoją, kuri visai nenori būti nei rašytoja, nei nerašytoja, nei politine aktyviste, nei neaktyviste, nei savim, nei kuo nors kitu, kuri yra nei laiminga, nei nelaiminga ir t.t. Kuri nepriklauso sau, bet visą laiką yra kažkam, pagal kažką, dėl kažko.
Ar gal čia paklausos dalykas - t.y. skaitančiųjų ratas jau toks toks toks siauras, kad praktiškai visi, kas skaito, tie ir rašo, arba bent norėtų rašyti (ir tada rašytojo/s egzistencija jiems pati įdomiausia ir suprantamiausia).
O gal rašydama/s apie rašytoją gali kalbėti keliais balsais, keliomis istorijomis iškart?
اين رمان از مارگارت اتوود روايت ماجراي زندگاني هاي بانويي سرخ مو است، در واقع در اين اثر با سه رمان موازي روبرو هستيم، شرح كودكي زن، زندگي پنهاني او بعد ماجراي مردن ساختگي او، ماجراهاي رمان هاي او كه با شخصيت ساختگي ديگري انها را منتشر مي كرد. قلم زيباي نويسنده در كنار شرح دغدغه هاي زنانه ي اين بانو، اثر قابل توجهي وا خلق كرده است.

I love M. Atwood, but this book...I still can't believe she wrote it.In most cases Atwood's themes revolve around women in some form or another. For the first time I felt myself becoming so frustrated with the female protagonist. I wanted to slap her and tell her to (ironically) grow some balls and stop feeling sorry for herself; there are people who have worst problems! She was weak and doubtful for superficial reasons and I couldn't believe Atwood would resort to using weight a major reason for someone's complexities. I expect more subtlety from Atwood.
Δεν έχω διαβάσει τίποτα άλλο δικό της και στο οπισθόφυλλο γράφουν "One of the most important writers in English today",όμως σίγουρα δεν μιλάνε για αυτό το βιβλίο. It was ok γιατί σε σημεία χαχάνισα.(Συγγνώμη Θάλεια)
Joan Foster is an ordinary woman, bored housewife, a once-fat woman, but with a range of different lives and personas. She is simultaneously bored lover, bad housewife, writer of romance novels, dabbler in spirituality. She tries to package herself according to each relationship she is in, and discovers the limitations too stifling. Until she writes a best-seller, serious novel and everything changes.
