https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149153.The_Mouse_That_Roared
"There's only one method of getting money from another nation that is recognized by tradition as honorable," Tully said, solemnly."What is it?" asked the Duchess .
. ."War," he said."War!" echoed Gloriana, in astonishment."War," repeated Tully.
"We could declare war on the United States."The tiny Duchy of Grand Fenwick is hurting for money.
Their plan is to start a war with the U.S., lose, and then receive some subsidy from the American government.So, here they come to sort-of-conquer us, twenty-three warriors, armed with long bows, spears, and maces.
And, strange as it may seem, their cockamamie declaration of war may accidentally lead to lasting peace.This was one of the funniest books I've read in a long time.
The Expeditionary force feels uneasy.An air raid drill keeps everyone in the subways and at home.Dr.Kokintz, inventor of the"Q Bomb", the latest and most powerful nuclear weapon, works at Columbia University.Bascomb decides to march there.Wearing shining armor, they meet some men wearing clothes that cover everything,(a decontamination squad),the Americans think the "Knights" are men from Mars, just off flying saucers !Fleeing when ray guns are fired, arrows actually and run for their lives.Soon Tully's men capture Dr.Kokintz, if they can get back to Grand Fenwick with the Dr. and the little bomb, that small nation will be the most important in the world.Imagine that!
A silly look at what would happen if the smallest country in the world took on the U.S. They want the U.S. to beat them so we could poor money into their economy and help them beef up their country, along the lines of the Marshall Plan.
I loved everything about this book, from the daring main character to the author's clever use of wit and humor. I'll be seeing the film soon and I hope it can live up to the book! :)
I quite liked it.I'm not an expert on satire, and to be honest, it generally goes over my head. I did get a few chuckles out of it, though--it's not exactly Wodehouse, but it was still delightfully ridiculous at some points, appealing to my sense of humor. I also appreciated the book's morality. It aligned very much with my own, naïve as it may seem. I wish this would have happened in real life, in fact.Not for everyone, as with anything, but a good, quick, worthy read.
I should give it 2 and a half stars. I didn't find it all that funny but it was well written. I'm just a very hard sell for humor.
In fact, the only thing that stopped me from recommending it was finding out that it was out of print and people were only willing to sell their copies for quite a bit of money.That said, this book is hilarious, but it's also an entertaining story about war, international policy, and wine.
Hysterically funnyThe miniscule Duchery of Grand Fenwick is suffering from a population explosion (4000 to 6000 people), financial woes (Their Pinot is being copied and undersold by a California Winery), and is no longer self sufficient after 600 years of existence.
Declaring war on America is the only honorable decision.Thus begins one of the funniest book series of the Cold War period.
Made into a movie with Peter Sellers which is definitely worth viewing, the book still contains a lot more and gives a strong message.
You will be laughing out loud, so reading in a private area is advised.
The story begins in the small nation of the Grand Duchy of Fenwick which has detached itself from the world for nearly six centuries.
Even though they plan to lose the Grand Duchy of Fenwick becomes the most powerful country in the world by the end of the book.
I think its funny how a small country was able to beat the US and destroy their reputation as the most powerful nation in the world in just a matter of hours.
But besides messages and themes I felt like the plot was very well thought out except for the end.
It's a nice merge of fantasy and reality--the possibility I think of a tiny country comprised of English longbowmen mercenaries who claimed that territory in the 14th century because no one else wanted it, where they still use long bows and wear heraldic outfits perhaps is stretching it a bit, but the author merges them pretty nicely with occupied defense administrators and junior ministers, because no one takes them seriously when they declare war on the US.
When outraged protests and letters are either ignored or used by the unscrupulous winery for its benefit, there's only one choice left--war.
Just as I suspected. Peter Sellers was not in this book. Stick to the movie.
http://yearningtoread.blogspot.com/Grand Fenwick is a little known country near France, a small duchy that has flourished for centuries because of their popular wine company. Recently, however, the wine business has failed to bring in enough money to live on.  There are those who wish to dilute the wine, and others who are against this notion. Both parties continue to argue over the outcome until a grand scheme is devised: small, itty bitty Grand Fenwick will declare war on the U.S. - attack, lo
In fact, Grand Fenwick, the smallest nation in the world, wins this war.
I respected them both and loved the way they handled the sticky situations they were put in.Story notes -This story really focuses a lot on politics - with a mixture of action, silliness, romance, and character history on the side.
I loved the perfect trap the U.S. walked into, and the perfect set-up to win the war that the warriors of Grand Fenwick had.
A bit of silliness, romance, and war mixed in with political disagreements of all different kinds makes for a lovely story and enjoyable read!
The book was the first in a series of five comic novels, but it made a bigger splash four years later when Peter Sellers starred in a popular film adaptation of the same name.
Since the US is always generous with the nations it vanquishes, the Duchess figures they'll come out ahead.Unfortunately, the United States doesn't take the Duchy's declaration of war seriously—until the little country's two-dozen-man expeditionary force invades New York City.
And to the chagrin of the Duchess and her advisers, the Duchy of Grand Fenwick didn't lose.
The Mouse that Roared by Leonard Wibberley is a satirical novel about the Cold War. The plot centers on the fictional country of Grand Fenwick and the exploits of its inhabitants. In the story, Grand Fenwick is the world’s smallest country. Yet, through the actions of a few devoted citizens it wins a war against the United States, captures the world’s most powerful weapon, and eventually brings an end to the Cold War.  This book has several important attributes that make it enjoyable. First, is
The Mouse that Roared by Leonard Wibberley is a satirical novel about the Cold War. The plot centers on the fictional country of Grand Fenwick and the exploits of its inhabitants.
In the story, Grand Fenwick is the world’s smallest country.
Though overall a great story, the book does have several drawbacks.
This might also have been caused by the fact that there was not really a main character, so it was a little harder to get absorbed into the story.
Despite having a few drawbacks, The Mouse that Roared is irrefutably a great book.
Film trailer The story reminds me of the independence of a suburb of London, also a film (black and white) - any clues to the title anyone?LATER - when walking my long-nosed, hairy thing in the woods, it came to me Passport to PimlicoBlurb - Mark McDonnell and Steven McNicoll's dramatisation of Leonard Wibberley's famous comic novel.
Gloriana - a wise head on young shoulders - proposes a solution long recognised as acceptable to all nations - that is, to declare war on their much richer enemy, lose, then sit back and wait for the inevitable billions in post-war aid to roll in.

I had read this classic Cold War satire when I was a teenager while the Cold War was still ongoing.
At the time it provided light relief to what were real fears of nuclear war.
So it was fun to revisit when it was chosen as the February selection for our reading group.
While written sixty years ago it still worked well and provided plenty of comedy though in the time since the United States had certainly abandoned its policy of not invading small countries/ It is good to hear that many of the author's works are now being made available in ebook format to be discovered by new readers.
this is a really fun book, really good I recommend it. It was written as a serial and you can tell when you read it because it feels like dispatches in a newspaper. But it is also really well thought out, there aren't the type of plot holes you would expect in a book of this kind. On the other hand it does read as dated which is weird since in theory it is not at all dated. But it is as good as the play.
Having only dimly remembered seeing the movie long long ago, and having never read anything by Wibberley other than Encounter near Venus, a strange H.G. Wells ripoff-I-mean-tribute, for children (now an out-of-print rarity), which haunted me after I read it in grade school, I was surprised at how genuinely witty it is. I may pick up some of the other "Mouse" novels if I come across them.
An endearing little story about how an obscure European duchy upsets the Cold-War-Era balance of power, holds the world hostage and generally sets things to rights by taking possession of a shoebox. Not as hysterically funny as I was led to expect, but a good read.
An oldie that always pleases!
A great fairy tale about nuclear disarmament and politics in general. Found this 1956 hardback edition in great shape at Goodwill. Huzzah! It's a keeper.
Ok, this is the 2nd or 3rd or fifteenth or so time I've read this book. While a little dated (cold war times and written in 1955) its still a fun, light and breezy book.
But the man in the U.S. Department of State who received the declaration of war took it as a joke.Tully Bascomb, a daring Grand Fenwickian, led an expeditionary force of about two dozen longbowmen to invade the U.S. The plan was to arrive, be defeated, then let the U.S. rebuild Grand Fenwick after its surrender.
They egress successfully, capturing a general and four policemen, but losing one of their own men, on the way out of New York City and back to Grand Fenwick.Now in possession of the only Q-bomb, Dr. Kokintz, a U.S. General, and four U.S. policemen, Grand Fenwick is suddenly the most powerful country in the world.
I found a copy of this in the local library, and having seen the Peter Sellers movie, I had to read it.This was, I understand, originally serialized in a magazine, and it has that feel to it.
It was a very likable and believable country, and the causus belli...America ripping off the duchy's one cash crop.
Tully Bascome, the hero, is more virile and harder then the movie, which became a Peter Sellers ego trip.
Again, its roots in being serialized came through.However, I think the book is as good as the movie, and has a unique charm of its own not entirely dated.
The author, Leonard Wibberly, seems to have had an interesting life, to say the least.I think part of what brought me to this rather dated piece of fiction was the recent anniversary of Fail Safe, which brought with it a bunch of remembrances of Dr. Strangelove and I guess it is interesting to look back at how art dealt with the absurdity of The Cold War.The Mouse That Roared is definitely an idea book.
This is a fabulous book. A tiny country is running our of money. Its only export is a fine wine. They see that an American company is ripping off the name and declare war with the intention of losing and reaping huge reparations. Unfortunately they win and in the processes capture the doomsday weapon. The book continues to successfully develop this idea. I found it hugely funny and relatively believable.
The imaginary Duchy of Grand Fenwick is a tiny European country, three miles by five miles, supposedly located in the Alps between Switzerland and France, ruled by the 22 year old Duchess Gloriana XII.
Landing in New York City, which is almost completely deserted above ground because of a city-wide disaster drill, the Duchy's invading army, at one point mistaken for men from Mars, wanders into a top secret government lab and unintentionally captures the "Q-bomb,” a prototype doomsday device that could destroy the world if triggered, along with its maker, an American scientist named Dr. Alfred Kokintz, who happens to be a native of Grand Fenwick, and escapes with them back to Europe.
(Reto Popsugar #38: un libro satírico)Erase que se era un pequeño ducado en el norte de los Alpes Suizos fundado por un mercenario inglés en el siglo XIV, que pasó a llamarse Grand Fenwick (veáse el escudo arriba).
Bueno, eso fue hasta que ya no ...La idea de que un país pequeño pueda defenderse contra los grandes del mundo, puede pensarse risible e imposible.
We declare war on Monday, are vanquished Tuesday, and rehabilitated beyond our wildest dreams by Friday night.Peeero las cosas no resultaron del todo según el plan...La enorme paranoia norteamericana por las invasiones 'aliens' aparece en la historia, ya sea de extranjeros o de extraterrestres.
Grand Fenwick's Duchess Gloriana XIII tasks the duchy's high constable Tully Bascomb with assembling an appropriate expeditionary force to invade the U.S. Constable Bascomb vigorously proceded to do so and soon marched out the duchy's only road connecting it with the outside world with his force of three men-at-arms, besides himself, and 20 longbowmen dressed in chain mail and surcoats.
The Grand Fenwickian expeditionary force ends up "winning" the war by capturing the Columbia University physicist and the ultra-destructive "Q" bomb that he created, then calmly sailing out into the Atlantic Ocean well before the United States realizes that it has been "invaded."The remainder of the book describes, in hysterical fashion, how this event leads to "guaranteed" peace for the entire world.
