https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40271.Alvin_Journeyman
In his introduction, Card acknowledges that when "Alvin Journeyman" was first published, some fans had been waiting several years for the next installment in the series.
Had I been one of those fans, I would have probably been really annoyed that I'd waited a long time and only got "Alvin Journeyman."Just as is the case with the later Ender novels, the Alvin series seems to have descended into a series where people sit around and have lots of philosophical conversations that, while interesting, don't really do much to advance the plot.
Or maybe this is just one long preview for the next installment in the series.
You can tell a great (in the epic sense) tale --and what Card has in mind is indeed an epic tale, the story of a life-work of monumental moral significance-- at short length, like a condensed, thin-volume overview history of the Civil War; and such concise overviews serve an educational purpose.
Although Card's is a fictional history in an alternate America, his method of story-telling is the kind that would more accurately reflect reality as it's lived --to keep the Civil War analogy, it's not a concise, 150 page overview, but more like Shelby Foote's monumental narrative in three massive volumes.
The prosecutor is none other than Daniel Webster.Alvin’s brother Calvin, who is jealous of Alvin, has gone to Europe to learn from Napoleon Bonaparte.
When she realizes that Alvin is in danger, she goes to warn him and picks up a transformed Mike Fink along the way.Alvin Journeyman, which won the 1996 Locus Award for Best Fantasy Novel, is the fourth book in Orson Scott Card’s TALES OF ALVIN MAKER.
There were some great moments in Alvin Journeyman, such as when the slave finders try to identify Arthur Stuart, but at this point in the series, the plot has slowed drastically and this book feels like a detour.
Rating a book is never easy.
This book deserves a solid 4 star.
Those guys get 5 stars just for being them.
Everything is different from their books.
I've seen people give 3 stars to Robin Hobb just because it didn't entice them as much as Abercombie's words did.
Keeping everything in mind and upon reading book 4 of Alvin Maker, I was actually thoroughly pleased to have read it.
Alvin continues his journey of being a Maker finds himself in jail (of all places) with some serious folks deadfast against him.
This book also finally starts the story of Calvin, Alvin's brother.
LOOK WE CAN MAKE LAWS AND SIT IN COURTS AND TALK A LOT REALLY MAGIC AND WONDER AND ALL THAT IS IRRELEVANT IN A FANTASY NOVELSo help me I don't know why I'm still reading this mess.You should know that this is book four.
I read a third of the way through book five before I realized I'd skipped a book.
300 pages later.Orson, I know you're bigheaded and people will buy your books no matter what I say, but why is the farther along in a series you get, the more we end up with talking heads?
Preachy talking heads.
While it starts to feel as if the first three books peaked with Prentice Alvin, then we're now on the other side of that hill and Card is trying to restart the story somewhat.
To an extent this is borne out just from the publishing schedule - books 1 through 3 were published a year apart, this one took a six year jump for him to get back to world of Alvin Maker.It's an enjoyable read though - if a little slow - and we do get some new characters and some older characters that step up from supporting cast to regular.
In this fourth instalment of Orson Scott Card's alternate-history and Mormon allegory "The Tales of Alvin Maker", Alvin is put on trial for his life.
And while Alvin endures his hardships in Hatrack River, his malevolent brother Calvin heads for Europe to learn from Napoleon himself how to rule over others.Orson Scott Card wrote ALVIN JOURNEYMAN five years after the previous installment, and it is pretty evident that he has grown somewhat tired of the series and no longer sure of what direction it will take.
After fleeing from Vigor Church and wandering for a bit, Alvin and Arthur Stuart's return to Hatrack River seems forced.
Card continues with great insights into people and fills his characters full of welcome eccentricities, musings, or weaknesses.
It was time for Card to discuss the Unmaker; time to better understand knacks and doodlebugs; time to explore the alternate history side of this fantasy tale.
Both halves of the book would have been better for the pairing, and fans could have treated it as a middle volume that was slow but rich.
It is set in a fascinating alternate history USA in which much of the country remains in the hands of the colonial powers, and where magic is relatively commonplace.Alvin Journeyman picks up the story of Alvin (usually referred to as Smith or Maker, from his occupation and magical gifting respectively) where the previous books left off, and carries the story through the setbacks he experiences trying to teach something of his magic art to others, so that together they can build the Crystal City that Alvin has seen in visions.

For quite some time now, I have been trying to pinpoint the exact date when one of my favorite autho
The title to this one is a bit misleading, I guess, considering that Alvin barely journeys at all in the book.
However, a lot of interesting things do happen in that one place he's in most of the time.
Calvin is just getting stranger and a bit crazy even.
Romance is more visible on this book, as are the subtler intreagues of the Unmaker.
I dunno.
More talk, less action, but still fun.
I really enjoy the new character, the Lawyer from England.
He sounds like a good person and I love his rhetoric and the way he acts in court.
Fun read, overall.
Time for the next oooone!
Trudging through the first chapter I wanted to scream. If I didn't already know that I enjoy reading books by this author I would have tossed the book. I'm sure as I continue through the story this memory will fade, but ... I just started the book, and the pain is still fresh.-----But now it's finished, and that was good reading--especially the legal bit with the court case. I liked how it was wrapped up where much of the trouble started, where Mr. Dowser had said for the well to be dug.
Loved the judge in the trial scenes. Some great character development all through the town of Hatrack River. Loved the nasty, jealous brother, Calvin (not his nastiness, just for the drama he created). However, I just have not warmed up to Peggy. Last time I liked her was in Book 2. I can't give away what happened to her in Book 3, but read it yourself and tell me whether you agree or not.Also, every time the story veers toward the Red Man, I say to myself, "Huh? What? How much longer do I have to put up with this?"
Yeap, just kept getting sillier. More extraneous characters, more side plots for the sake of drawing things out, less progress toward the resolution of the series.Suddenly, Card introduces a third person framing narrative in the opening and closing chapters of the fourth book of the series. Why? Ask him.Not sure if I'll read any more. Card is a great storyteller, but he has unraveled his story so badly that I'm not terribly interested how it ends.
If you enjoy the Ender series, be sure to read the Alvin Maker series.
Alvin's character was pretty inconsistent; sometimes he's preternaturally wise, almost omniscient, while at other times he can be whiny and under-confident.
And, of course, the church demonizing and trying to banish any magic in the world (this happens in so much fantasy it's almost a trope at this point).
The interweaving of magic in this part of the story was well done (e.g. Veronica using hexes to make it appear the Alvin had escaped his cell when the deputy came in to check on him).
So for each review I submit, I'll be rating three metrics: plot, prose, and narration.
I'll average the three for the final rating.Plot: 3 Prose: 4 Narration: 5
But considering how inconsequential all the female characters are in his book, I think he needs a good look in the mirror.If good people weren’t so trusting of bad ones, the human race would have died out long ago—most women never would have let most men near them.This example actually goes to the root of Card's brand of sexism - he implies that most men are bad, while most women are good.
Card sets up a lot of things like this, all leading to the Crystal City, in both this book and the next one.
This time around Alvin is on trial.
In one, we have a lawyer with a knack of his own who wants to learn from Alvin and looks to be a new main character.
In the other, Alvin's brother Calvin's adventures in France, meeting Napoleon.Unfortunately, it seems like we've spent yet another book just spinning in place.
Likewise, I think Calvin's story is interesting.
All together, I think I'm done with the series for the time being.
It's not flat out a bad series, but I feel like there are better books I could be reading first.
There's something about the 4th book in a long series...it usually ends up just being a "bridge" book- linking the plot that's been building from the first few books, to the resolution of the plot in the last book or two. That's basically what this book was, I felt like nothing incredibly significant happened, but it got me ready to see how the conflicts will resolve over the last 2 novels of the series. Which is ok. I can be patient....
Not the best book in the Alvin Maker series, but certainly still worth reading. The characters are great, but the plot is a bit lacking. This was the necessary outcome of the plot holes introduced into the last 2 chapters of book 3. Had I written the series, I probably would have cut this one out entirely. I'm not sorry to have read it though.
I mean, just look at the cover. I debated whether to even admit on this site that I read the book. This one doesn't even just suffer from the offensiveness, it's also really bad from the long whinge-worthy meandering opening.Super-tempted to give up on the series -- only the insistence of my daughter keeps me going. Le sigh.
So, most of this book seems to re-litigate some of Joseph Smith's sexual controversies. That's a weird thing to do for several hundred pages.But our hero Alvin Smith totally didn't boink an old lady and a child. So hooray for him. Scholars within and without the church, however, seem to have the receipts on Joseph's, um, prolific proclivities.Still continuing the series.
I am enjoying this series, and the connection to Joseph's life is intriguing and expands my thoughts about his life and contribution to the world. It is easy to attack a person and less difficult to face the own weaknesses in ourselves.
The book that has made me miss my stop on my commuter train more than once. The tale of the golden plow that hasn't done any plowing yet, it just makes people want to have it for themselves, and get Alvin jailed for it. The tale gets more detail, more complexity, and..
Alvin Journeyman was an ok progression of the story, it dived into some murky waters and had ended with some good allusions to coping with slander. It definitely wasn't my favorite book in the series so far, but the story continues to be compelling.
I am loving this series. One of those series that keeps you hooked because you want to see how it all turns out for the characters.
There were some slow points but it was superb!
Still a solid series, but this one felt like O.S.C. was trying to maneuver characters around to further the plot, instead of folks movin the way they set out.
In a style more indicative of the Ender series, the trial scene makes this book. Well crafted!
