https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/480698.The_World_Is_Not_Enough
If you're interested in the Crusades read everything Zoe Oldenbourg has ever writtten.
Details the lives of one family and their interpersonal relationships in the time of the Middle Ages. However, being confined to the family members' castle you learn very little about the rest of the world around them. The exception is when the male members venture off to the Crusades and the reader has a taste of military camp conditions of the time, and yet when they return you are confined once again to who-did-what in the castle and how everyone feels about it. In my opinion, Kenneth Follett's books weave a richer tapestry of the medieval world.
This is the first of Oldenbourg's mediaeval novels. It is not the best of them, perhaps reflecting her inexperience as a writer at the time. In any case I found parts of it tedious--though, to her credit, one must note that parts of it are intended to show the tedium of even upper-class provincial life, a tedium which partly accounts for why the lord runs off from his home and wife on two crusades.
You ever get that longing for a favorite book and discover that you may never get a chance to read it again?
This begins the story of Alis and Ansiau in the year of our Lord 1171.
During the first Crusade in 1179, the reader stays in Linnieres with Alis, while Ansiau leaves to travel to the Holy Land.
The reader is taken along with Ansiau and his sons in the 2nd Crusade in 1190.
The parts set in France fit somewhere between pop historical romance and In A Dark Wood Wandering.The treatment of the crusades was a little disappointing-- the writing style changed completely, and it became more of a non-fiction chronicle than historical fiction.

Although this was highly interesting and well-written, the author didn't talked about the characters' emotions enough for my taste, hence a writing that stayed cold and distant. I definitly want to read the second book though.
This novel, first published in 1948, tells the story of the lives of the minor nobility in the county of Champagne in France before, during and after the third Crusade.
Few of the characters are likable and the story jolts from one grim situation to another.
In between there is the Crusade, poverty, infidelities, and dozens of children born (most of whom end up in the grave).
I would recommend this book to anyone seeking to learn what life was like in Medieval times, but only if you can handle the unceasingly grim lives these people lived.
The author, Zoé Oldenbourg was a painter before becoming a historian and a writer.
I always feel transported to and immersed both intellectually as well as visually in the particular era she chooses to write about.
I particularly enjoy her stories set in the middle ages, a time of history my history teachers did not particularly like and always referred to with distaste.
As a grown up I traveled a lot in that particular area of France and became fascinated as well as curious about what really happened during those dark ages.
Couldn't have dreamed of having a better view and understanding .
As with any such sweeping family saga, being fully-immersed in the lives of the main characters (and their children) from adolescence to late middle age left me feeling moody at the end; there was something very bittersweet about leaving these real, flawed characters in their twilight years. That's how vividly they and their world were drawn.
This is one of a dozen books I've read twice. And I'm 60 years old, so that's over a very long period with a lot of reading. I'm not sure why, but part of it is that the author loves all the characters, even the dark, mentally ill "evil" ones. She knows both men and women. She writes convincingly of the inner lives of children, young adults, and old adults.
This really put you into France during the crusades time period. The story was interesting and the environment painted very realistically.I couldn't relate too much to the lovers, they were both rather shallow people at first. Their love was very strong because it was the only protection they had for the cruel and violent period in which they were living.
The lady at Border's recommended this book when I was looking for The Pillars of the Earth today...it's worth a try!
More historical than novel.
I couldn't get in to this book and consequently abandoned it after nearly 100 pages. I'm surprised that I have done this and thought I'd enjoy this book.
