https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/257321.Stronghold
I read all the Sunrunner novels when I was a teenager.
I remember tucking them into my backpack to escape lunch period...and math class...and chemistry...and biology.
Exact details escape me, but there was a lot of family baggage & likable characters doing unlikable things (rather soapy compared to most sword-and-sorcery novels, IIRC) & someone died when I wasn't expecting it -- a punch in the gut for impressionable teenage eyes.
:P Anyway, for nerdy sentimental reasons the Dragon Star trilogy holds a special place in my heart.
Someday I need to revisit them & see how they hold up.
I think the Dragon Star series is definitely where MR's talent for epic, continent-spanning narration comes in - the war takes us all over the princedoms and it's amazing how much you can feel for characters whose plot is either extremely back-burnered (Idalian & Tirel, Kostas, Rihani, Chayla & Rohannon) or who we even only meet once (Latham & Hevatia).
;) But that's a good thing - these characters still engage my emotions fiercely.Two books to go!
I read this originally when I was in middle school, and it has stayed in my collection and been re-read several times. I adore this series, such strong characters and strong family relationships - something I think stuck with me forever as ideal ;-) I love the magic aspect, the dragons, the names of the characters, the game of thrones, this to me is an epic fantasy series.
The earlier books have all their own charms and worth, but Stronghold is where it all makes complete sense.
The way Mel can make you mourn for a character you've only known for a few pages almost as much as one you've known for 4 books is masterful.
(view spoiler)[I love the way the pace and the cadence of the writing changes when Sioned goes looking for Rohan in those final few pages.
And I'd never noticed before the time Rohan spends in the Flametower just before, thinking about his father's death and about how Pol's fire will burn there one day.
Poor Sioned :(  (hide spoiler)]
Granted, the years between my reading of the trilogies has diluted my memories to the point that I can't really comment on whether there were any behavioural deviations (still, the fact that decades have passed more than excuses any inconsistencies).The plot starts off slow and meandering, letting the reader savour the fruits of Rohan's labour, of the long-lasting peace that had been forged.
But, suspending disbelief, most of these situations seem to serve the cause of character development.It was definitely an enjoyable read, making me recall the events in the first trilogy.
Lovely way to spend Christmas, lost in one of my favorite books!
Pol and Meiglan have a family all of their own.
Meiglan annoyed me a bit at first, but I think I'm coming around.
Pol should have believed his dragon and Audry makes me want to injure him slowly and painfully!
Then Pol starts to annoy me again, I can see where he's coming from but to get so wrapped up in all of it and FORGET ABOUT HIS WIFE FOR CHAPTERS AT A TIME!!!!!
Sit down and be quiet!
It makes for an amazingly emotional read.
These books are ok, in general.
There are no real break through or any thing I would call out as being particularly good or inventive on the authors side, but the writing is done in a way that allows you to be pulled into the world.One weakness of this author, is the frequent sex scenes, it seems for this author a recurring theme in her books is sex, sexual tension and sexuality in general are only a tool for manipulation and control.
I found this to be very foul and it sours my mouth in general on the first three.
A throwback to high school, re-reading now just for fun
I enjoy this author a great deal!
The very first fantasy/sci fi story I ever read. Unforgettable, addicting and amazing.
All I can really say is, I was in tears at the end.
ROHAN. :(Pol's in charge now.That's a bit worrying.*weeps and despairs*
The world carefully crafted by the author in the first trilogy (The Dragon Prince) is unraveling. An overwhelming invading force of mysterious barbarians invades the lands. Internal strife between the next generation of leaders threatens any successful defense. And a heart-rending twist in the final pages leaves the reader stunned and bereft. Any reader will be left desperately craving for hope in the next book of this deep, compelling saga.
I made the mistake of reading this even though I haven't finished the Dragon Prince trilogy.
The family tree and character list at the end of the book really helped, and after the first 100 pages, I got the gist of who everyone was.As with most high fantasies, Stronghold takes some time to get going, but once it does, it's impossible to put down.
It's really tough reading about these characters go from peaceful happiness to once again fighting a war.The ending is a bit of a cliffhanger, and I'm glad I have the second book at hand so I can see what's going to happen next.
One of the things I love about Rawn is that she is willing to mercilessly kill off major characters (there are several in this book, including one at the end that is likely to shock any reader of the previous series) and she's also not afraid of allowing her characters to be complete idiots and screw things up.
While I understand it's part of a trilogy, so I'm willing to forgive the abrupt (though amazing) ending, new readers thinking this is the first part of a new series will likely hate the book.
the invasion of rohan's continent by the barbarians sees the end of all rohan and sioned believed in and worked so hard to bring about - peace!
war reigns and its so brutal, the invaders want only to wipe all the people out but they are interested in the desert for some reason!
and will andry and pol not be able to put their differences and jealousies behind them in order to work together to save what their parents worked so hard to acquire?
will Pol be able to reign once again in peace?
Every time I re read the Dragon Prince series and the Dragon star series, I am reminded of how much I love Melanie Rawn's storytelling. The characters are so vivid to me. So much so that the book lingers with me for a little bit. I am left missing the characters until I read about them again. My only complaint. I wish they would all be released in E-book as well. The fat books get hard to hold in my bad hands.
A very exciting return to the world of Dragon Prince after the first trilogy.Here a brand new enemy is introduced but ties in nicely with the first three books. There are a number of new engaging characters as well as our old favorites although readers my not like what happens to some of them in this and the subsequent books. The world is plunged into war seemingly overnight and nobody's life will be the same.
I love medieval fantasy and this was a great story of it's type. I did not read the previous series set in this world but after only reading the first book in this trilogy I already have plans to. The setting was well written and the characters engaging. The bad guys are mysterious and very evil, always a favorite for me. I'm happy to have found another great fantasy author.
This book is the first in the Dragon Star Saga. Taking place after the Dragon Prince Trilogy again it starts out to be a very politically oriented story line but turns into a great saga. The story keep your attention and takes you into a world of High Princes, Sunrunner Magick and Evil Sorcery. It is a good read for any dragon and fantacy lover.
This is the follow up trilogy to the Dragon Prince and gives us the stories of the next generation who faces internal strife and political intrigue as well as invaders. This really tied into the first trilogy very well.
This is the series that first introduced me to fantasy fiction. (Thank you Faith Mehler) Every couple of years I go back and re-read it just to make sure it's as good as I remember. It never disappoints.
Deprimerend. Alle karakters die in de vorige serie eindelijk allerlei problemen overwonnen hadden, worden hier weer geconfronteerd met een hele nieuwe set problemen. Darker & Edgier en Anyone can die. Desondanks blijft het fascineren.
This author never ceases to entertain me. An established, well thought out, and highly entertaining fantasy tale that sweeps you up in the compassion of the characters and the intensity of the story
WHAT? NOOOOO
The entire series has wonderfully written characters with flaws as breathtaking as their abilities. The magic is inventive and I liked the use of colors to help describe characters.
I love this series. The intricacies of the politics and plots get you totally immersed. I've read the whole series at least twice.
Great book and series. Should still hold up well today for new readers who want to be engrossed in great character development and good story telling.
nothing to add - see review of The Dragon Prince
