https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21412202-as-you-wish
*4.5*I'm so mad at myself for waiting so long to read this.This book was absolutely delightful, and made me love The Princess Bride even more than I already did.
I loved getting little asides from the other cast members and director, but they were inserted so randomly throughout the text that it sort of took away from Cary's writing.
It just disjointed the narrative a bit too much for me, but I don't know how else it could have been done, so I'll forgive it.Overall, a fantastic book that I will forever recommend to anybody who loves The Princess Bride.
I have probably seen the movie "The Princess Bride" 100 times, and I've read William Goldman's book so often that the cover is torn, the binding is broken and some pages are falling out.
I had never noticed it before, but when I rewatched the film, I could spot when he was limping.The stories that Cary and Mandy Patinkin shared about their training for the famous sword fight between the Man in Black and Inigo Montoya made me appreciate that movie scene so much more.
I enjoyed reading this memoir so much that I watched the movie again (for perhaps the 101st time) and I want to reread Goldman's book.
There are also guest appearances recounting their own roles in that particular section, including the director Rob Reiner, his friend and co-producer Andrew Scheinman, author William Goldman, actors Robin Wright, Christopher Guest, Mandy Patinkin, Wallace Shawn, Billy Crystal, Carol Kane and Fred Savage (basically, all the actors with speaking parts who were still alive).The trouble for me was that so much of what Elwes was saying was--forgive me--dull.
Hearing Elwes say the word 'fart' totally made my inner ten-year-old giggle.
I am so tempted to give it 5 stars just for how much I love learning any new tidbit about this movie. I am  such  a Princess Bride fan girl. This is me when I found out the book existed.THIS movie cover is my favorite -- see how the title is the same upside down? The book covers how the different actors came together to be part of movie. Cary talks about his nervousness and how sweet he was on Robin.Cary talks about how grueling learning the swordplay was. Just for fun, here is a link to the fam
HEREYou'll hear about the little people inside the R.O.U.S. costumes and how one came to be arrested just before he was needed for filming the scene.Billy Crystal and Carol Kane were so great together even behind the scenes.
The second thing that touched me was hearing more of Mandy Patinkin's inspiration for his part as Inigo Montoya.
That line just means so much to him.The last thing that touched me had to do with Cary's visit to his grandfather during the filming (he also died while before the movie wrapped).
Very touching thoughts.I'm just happy to know these random things about the movie.
It was like, I'll become the greatest sword fighter, and my reward will not be to be in this movie that ended up being what it's become to all these people; my reward will be that my father will come back.The book also touches upon what happened after the movie came out, including a 25th anniversary party/reunion:I will say that I think it's the kind of book I'd recommend getting from the library rather than buying it as a keeper, unless you're a truly rabid fan.
I hate to kill you." "You seem a decent fellow.
Twue wuv!""Death cannot stop true love.

This is, by far and away, one of the warmest "let's get together and talk about the making of my favorite movie" books I've ever read, but I really need to remember that it's really nothing more than that.
:)I've already heard, from what seems like millions of sources, that Princess Bride touched them deeply and how it always seems to be a personal favorite film for each of us.
I LOVED the film.
:)But mostly what I get from this book is an utter fan-service, and that's just fine if we love nostalgia, and we do.
When my sister had to give a speech at said best friend's wedding it was from the Princess Bride, and how they used the movie in the process of screening boyfriends.
I liked finding out how hard it was to even get the movie made at all, and how many of the people involved had first fallen in love with the book.
I liked knowing how much so many of the people involved loved the book.The information on all the people involved was interesting.
It was refreshing to read a book like this that didn't trash anyone.
Ok so I absolutely love this movie and did enjoy hearing all of the behind the scenes stories!! But oh my goodness that felt like reliving the entire process of making the movie... it was just more info than I ever cared to know. I was pretty bored in a lot of areas, buuuut can't bring myself to give a book about the making of The Princess Bride less than 3 stars. If you REALLY love this movie and/or want to know everything Cary Elwes ever thought, then check this out.
The movie has since become a classic and my children quote it better than I ever did.The actor playing Westley grew up and wrote a memoir on the making of this epic movie.
Every character given perfect lines (some ad libbed), yet a perfectly clean, seamless adventure, love story, fairy tale emerges.
A few wonderful secrets are given away like how they climbed The Cliffs of Insanity and the story of the broken toe, the secrets of the swamps, the fire, and best of all, the sword fights.
It tells the story of how Rob Reiner made the movie adaptation of William Goldman's The Princess Bride as told by "Wesley" aka Cary Elwes, with the kind "help" of his fellow cast members of which several interview snippets are thrown in.Though the print edition has cool production pictures and even some private ones from the cast and crew, this audio version was the best because it made it even funnier and lovelier.We start with the horrendous ordeal almost any movie has to go through to get approval (Hollywood is just stupid), followed by Rob Reiner meeting the author and convincing him to grant them the rights (after the Hollywood disaster the author had bought the rights back).
★★★★★ (This is a review of the audiobook.) Wonderfully narrated by many of the stars from the movie, reading their contributions. I did miss Billy Crystal and Mandy Patinkin’s voices, but it is still a wonderful listen.Even if you only liked The Princess Bride, and didn’t love it like I did, you'll enjoy this book. CE said he wrote it from his heart, and that comes through on every page. Sorry... can’t write more, I’m off to re-watch the movie.
This is a light-hearted, charming account of the making of the movie from Cary Elwes' (Westley's) point of view.
It's a definite love-fest between and about the cast members--no dirt dished here!
There are some genuinely funny stories, and some behind the scenes info that makes me impatient to watch the movie again.
I've definitely got to watch that again!Anyway, if you're a PB fan, I suggest checking it out.
The audio version is especially enjoyable, since you get to hear the entire story in Elwes's smooth British accent, along with inserted remarks from actual cast members.
4 stars for the book itself, and 1 additional star for the wonderful narration. It was just lovely, heart warming and funny. I listened to the whole thing with a big smile on my face and sometimes tears in my eyes. If you're a fan of the movie, you HAVE to listen to the audiobook. Just make sure you've got the dvd ready once you're done!
Finished this one on the day I bought it. I'm thinking about buying it again, this time on audible so I can hear the author read it. For some reason, nearly everyone of the Andre stories – – of which there are many – – kept making my eyes fill with tears.
If you're not a fan of The Princess Bride, (inconceivable!), then I wouldn't bother reading this book.
There aren't big technical explanations about filmmaking.
Instead, this is a big, gushy, enthusiastically nostalgic love letter to The Princess Bride and everyone involved in making it.
I finished in two sittings.If you are a fan of what is arguably the most quotable movie ever made (and one of my perennial favorites), then this is really worth reading.
So we get little anecdotes about the making of the movie: how hard everyone worked, how nice everyone was, how funny everyone was.
A happy, cute, sweet (insert sugary words here) non-fiction story about the making of the classing movie, The Princess Bride.
Honestly, I don't what I was expecting.
Just a great group of actors who genuinely seemed to love each other talking about the rather mundane aspects of filming said movie.
The most exciting part of the story was when Cary Elwes broke his toe.
A must read for The Princess Bride superfans, but just a mildly pleasant way to pass the time for everyone else.*~~Check out all of my reviews & my bookstagram at the links below~~*InstagramTwitterRecently read
I can't recommend it enough and if you're already a fan of the movie, I'm sure that you'll love it even more.Though it starts out a bit self-congratulatory in tone, throwing around words like "timeless", "modern classic", and "once-in-a-lifetime experience", As You Wish is ultimately, like The Princess Bride, a very sweet and and enjoyable memoir about the events behind the making of the film.
Another of my favorite parts is the description of Elwes' and Patinkin's struggle to film the "greatest sword fight in modern times." I had no idea of the amount of backbreaking work that went into the acquisition of the skills to run the scene.
First of all, if by some odd chance you have not seen the movie The Princess Bride, GO WATCH IT BEFORE YOU READ THIS BOOK.
We rented a blood and guts one the guys insisted on also, but at the house it was ladies first, and we all liked The Princess Bride so much we watched it twice and never saw the gory movie at all.Since then I've lost track of how many times I have seen the movie, but I know I want to see it again NOW so I can watch for all the other little behind the scenes secrets Elwes shares in this fun book.
A great book on the behind the scenes stories of a great movie. Lots of candid stories from all the cast, but mostly from Elwes. Filled with funny, serious stuff and a passion for doing a great film, detailing the pride and insecurities of the actors.
Now you'll see why I recommend this book and what all we nerds see in this classic gem of a movie.I learned a lot from this books which i got in audio read by the author.
The first thing i learned is that for 28 years I've been mispronouncing "Elwes"...Really, the story of the making of the movie which it turns out looked for a long time as if it wouldn't get made I predict you'll find, funny, endearing and sad.
It seems that the script of this movie had been "floating" around for some years.
This book was such a wonderful and heart-warming experience! Obviously, a must-read for any fan of the movie, but also just such a positive look at everything that goes into making a film. It really was great to read about how much the cast and crew bonded throughout the filming process while also discovering so many behind-the-scenes stories.
I had no idea 27 years ago that I was watching a movie that was destined to be a classic, and as I've learned from Cary Elwes' terrific As You Wish: Inconceivable Tales from the Making of The Princess Bride, the film's actors and creators had no idea either.The role of Westley, the film's protagonist, was a career-making one for Elwes, who was an actor with very few films under his belt when his agent told him director Rob Reiner wanted to meet with him.
Glorious! We listened to it on audio and hearing Westley/Cary's voice for hours on end transported me back to my childhood when I didn't go a day without watching The Princess Bride. Such a joyful magical book. I can't recommend it enough.
If you have read the book and loved the movie - you should be reading As You Wish right this very moment.As You Wish is a combination of the history of the script of The Princess Bride along with a recounting of the actual production of The Princess Bride.
Initially [the book says] author and screen writer of The Princess Bride, William Goldman, could not get the script turned into a movie.
The amazing history of the script of The Princess Bride is in itself is enough to read As You Wish.
I'm just grateful that The Princess Bride was written and the movie created.
Plus, I didn’t want to destroy the magic of the film itself.I've read a lot of books this year(!), and I’m truly glad I read this one (it even made it to my favorites list).
The amount of detail that Elwes recounts, the hidden gems that happened behind-the-scenes as the movie was being filmed, especially the camaraderie and love shared by the cast and crew, makes this a worthwhile book.
I appreciated reading about the moments recounted by many members of the cast in which fans have shared how the movie has impacted their lives.
No one threw temper tantrums, none of the co-stars hated each other and couldn't be in the same room after the director yelled, "Cut!" No, the filming was a big love-fest and so is the book.
Cary Elwes had a great time making The Princess Bride, and he talks in the most glowing terms of all the cast and crew.
AND, thanks to my friend Amy Finnegan, I got to go see Cary Elwes talk about the book and got to shake his hand (three times!) and get my copy signed!
Not only will you get to hear the voices of The Princess Bride's cast, director, producers, and writer but you'll also hear Cary Elwes' fantastic impressions.
The book chronicles the making of The Princess Bride.
This movie has become a cult classic, if by cult you mean everyone who loves it.
Elwes is primarily self-deprecating and modest about his first big movie role.
He says he loved introducing The Princess Bride to his kids, and now to his grandkids.
This is a wonderful, fun memoir with insights into the movie-making process.
I laughed, smiled and I may have teared up a bit. There wasn't a moment that made me miss the film I love any less. Thank you Cary Elwes for not only ruining me for all the other men because of your impeccable portrayal of Westley but most of all for bringing back all the memories. Brb. Will watch again the movie.
