https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/396071.Expedition_To_Earth
I don't think there's a better book by Arthur C.
Clarke than this.
These stories are taut, memorable, moving, full of the pain of one form or another of exile.
Sure, there are one or two amusing throwaways, but has there ever been a more poignant story of homesickness than "If I Forget Thee, Oh Earth", or a more bleakly ironic memorial to human folly than the closing paragraphs of the title story?
If you, like I, have found much of Arthur C.
Clarke's late work less than inspiring, read these early stories to discover what a tremendous writer he was at his peak.
A collection of some of Clarke's older SF stories, including "The Sentinel," which is the story that set the tone for 2001. All these stories are pretty good, although not the best that Clarke wrote. A few have twists that are easy to see coming, but overall I enjoyed them quite a lot.
It’s good to read some of the works of the forefathers of science fiction.
Combined, they’re fascinating in style and content and a joy to read.Most of these stories aren’t about laser guns or space battles – although I enjoy that kind of science fiction – but about the human condition.Second Dawn – This is a cautionary tale.
There’s just no there there for me to love it.Overall, I really enjoyed this collection and I need to revisit the old masters more often.
There are some great stories here. A great taste of his style and themes. Well recommended for anyone who wants a flavour of this great Sci-Fi icon.
I thought it was a pretty good collection of short stories. Did not feel dated and some of the ideas were still original.
Great Collection of Short Stories: There are 11 short stories in this collection and all of them are truly exceptional but 3 really stand out.
The first of course is "Sentinel" which is the basis for the movie and eventually the book, "2001" "Breaking Strain" is a great book discussing the moral implications of two men trapped alone in a space ship when it is quite obvious that if there was only one of them they could survive.
That being said I think this collections contains some of his best character sketches yet.
اين كتاب فوق العاده است. توجه خاص سي كلارك به بشريت در داستان هاش قابل ستايشه .اين تنها يك كتاب نيست، دريچه اي است به دنياهاي ناديده. :)بسيار لذت بردم از مطالعه اين كتاب اميدوارم شما هم از مطالعه اون لذت ببريد.Think outside the box!
داستان کوتاه «درس تاریخ» برایم بدل به یکی از ماندگارترین داستانهای کوتاه کلارک شد. اولین داستانی که چنان اشتیاقی در من ایجاد کرد که دست به ترجمهاش ببرم.ترجمهٔ «آه، زمین اگر فراموشت کنم» رو در آکادمی فانتزی خوندم، مثل «شش هزار سال نوری تا زمین» و چه ترجمههای معرکهای هم دارند.
داستان کوتاه «درس تاریخ» برایم بدل به یکی از ماندگارترین داستان‌های کوتاه کلارک شد. اولین داستانی که چنان اشتیاقی در من ایجاد کرد که دست به ترجمه‌اش ببرم.ترجمهٔ «آه، زمین اگر فراموشت کنم» رو در آکادمی فانتزی خوندم، مثل «شش هزار سال نوری تا زمین» و چه ترجمه‌های معرکه‌ای هم دارند.
He brings the subject in a couple of stories and portrays this ability like an advancement of society.
The second possibility, the one I like it more as more feasible, it’s that intelligent civilizations in distant galaxies are not so different to us, and the explanation is that nature and evolution has not so many degrees of freedom.But once I've portrayed negative issues, I must end telling that the stories deserve not just one but several readings.
He’s bringing always excellent ideas in little details, how space exploration could be done he portrays in astounding correctness in one of the stories, “Inheritance”.
Short stories have never really appealed to me in the past - I always liked the idea of them, but the moment I began to read them I would feel immediately disengaged.
When I began, I expected each story to feel indistinguishable, and even though they do focus upon similar ideas, they are presented in unique ways.
They are all interesting and enjoyable to read, and I can't say any story strikes me as being weak.
Not only has it further demonstrated Clarke's skill as a writer, but it has also shown me how worthwhile short stories can be.
One of the earlier collections by Arthur C Clarke and a taste of what was to come with certain storylines being enlarged upon in future books. It was a wonderful time back then when such writers wrote about the possibilities of what lay ahead, good and bad, and where everything was possible. A refreshing change from many of the sci-fi soaps that are currently the rage. These stories concentrated in putting you alongside the hero in circumstances that, even today, makes you think. I enjoyed reading it gain now as I did back in the late 70's.
I haven't read much Arthur C Clarke since long ago in high school, Childhood's End, 2001:A Space Odyssey, Rendezvous with Rama; and I thought I would read some of his other work..Its ok, but I guess I thought it would be better.This is a collection of about 10 short stories, a couple are pretty good, a couple kind of bad, and most are ok... nothing very memorable.. although much much better than Cradle....
I didn't even remember the title of this collection, but after spending a lot of time on Wikipedia looking at Clarke's short story collections, I am 99% sure this is the one I read.The ones which I still remember, even 30 odd years later:"The Sentinel" - Of course."Exile of the Eons" - The image of the Hitlerian 'Master' and of the philosopher exiled for thousands of years, very vivid!"Inheritance" - There's a certain haunting sadness to this one.
Clark is a beautiful writer and has such an imaginative mind. I'm so glad I discovered him. My favorite stories were 'If I Forget Thee, Oh Earth . . .', Superiority, Breaking Strain, Expedition to Earth, Nemesis, and The Sentinel!
A collection of 11 short stories by one of the Masters of Science Fiction, Arthur C. Clarke. Superbly written, some almost O. Henryesque in their conclusions, the collection contains "The Sentinel" a precursor of "2001: A Space Odyssey".
These stories may be dated technologically but their insights into humanity are timeless. Clarke wrote of things to come and was truly prophetic. A great introduction to an amazing talent in the sci-fi world.
Actually haven't finished it, but taking a break. It's not really my cup of tea, I guess. It's not like I don't understand what Arthur is writing about, it's that I can't seem to care. His writing, for me, is very dry.
Nem todas as estórias neste livro são 5 estrelas mas algumas, como a que dá o titulo a colecção são incríveis tanto na sua imaginação como relevância quanto ao futuro da humanidade.
13
Not up to the standards of his later work. The Sentinel was the only story I truly enjoyed.
A must read for any fan of Clarke. I enjoyed this tale of a possible timeline of our near future.
This is a collection of short stories originally published in the science fiction pulps magazines that were so popular in the 50s and 60s.
Some of my favorite classic science fiction comes originally from these magazines, and most of it takes the form of short stories.
An interesting contrast to yesterday’s book, Oryx & Crake, in which the world ended due to genetic engineering.The end of the world in Day of the Triffids was brought on by comets hitting chemical weapons stored on satellites, causing the mass blindness.
So you should read it instead of Expedition to Earth, because none of the stories feature the apocalypse.
Destaco, em particular os 5 contos de que mais gostei pela ordem em que surgem no livro: A Segunda Alvorada; Se eu te esquecer, ó Terra; Ponto de tensão; Encontro ao amanhecer e Sentinela.
Gostei mesmo muito do conto "Se eu te esquecer, ó Terra" e também do "Encontro ao amanhecer", no qual está subjacente a ideia de que terão sido astronautas os primeiros deuses da espécie humana, seres de uma das primeiras raças a terem evoluído na nossa galáxia que visitaram o nosso planeta nos primórdios da evolução da nossa espécie.
BREAKING STRAIN 2/5 - I'm harsh...
even to Clarke, that's all there is to say.'IF I FORGET THEE, OH EARTH...' 3/5 - Mooching, but soulful.BREAKING STRAIN 4\5 - This was such a fun little space story.
It was so good I was there, watching, just outside the airlock."News that is sufficiently bad somehow carries its own guarantee of truth.
Only good reports need confirmation."EXPEDITION TO EARTH 3/5 - Classic Arthur C.
This book should be given to anyone who thinks that science-fiction can't be deep and meaningful.
My only gripe with this book is that I often found it very difficult to stay awake whilst reading it.
This is probably because I mainly read it late at night, but I still think an awesome book is one that persuades me to keep my eyes open when all I want to do is sleep.
Maybe night time is not the best time for philosophical science fiction stories?
Still a good read though, and I'll make sure to read it in a more alert and awake future.
I have now read eleven works of fiction by Arthur C.
Often, science fiction does not age well.
Why does Clarke's work hold up better than some of his contemporaries?
Two reasons, I think, are his prose is concise and his science is intelligent, even when years have inevitably disproved some of it.
It's still safe to go back to the future with Arthur C.
Clarke.

A look into the early works of one of Science Fiction Maestros.Eleven short stories ranging from completely alien races to not-that-far-off-in-the-future tales.
As well as the pre-cursor tale "The Sentinel" which would later be expanded upon to become his 2001 masterpiece.Although I'd read this over 30 years ago, it still felt fresh reading it these past few days.
I was surprised at how much I actually remembered or what came back to me while I was reading.
Also surprising...
was that the stories still remained relevant today.I usually prefer Clarke's full novels and tend to stray from short stories, but I was very pleased to re-read this book.I can't believe over 30 years have gone by between readings.
Quaint short stories by Arthur C.
Clarke that can be amusing due to its dated ideas, but are nonetheless interesting and imaginative.
The writing style is by no means exceptional, but Mr. Clarke's ideas and thoughts - especially given the time period he wrote this (published 1953) - deserve tremendous credit and foresight.
It is quite exceptional to think of his imagination and tremendous scientific knowledge at a time when rocket technology was still in its early infancy, in a time before humans had yet to see the earth from a point beyond its atmosphere.
An interesting collection of short stories.
I liked reading all of them but only Breaking Strain really stood out from the rest, for me that is.
Anyway, I guess that's what the reader can do with literature after it's been read, besides appreciating it for what it is and, of course, reading it again.Except the short story History Lesson, which is also part of this collection, and which I read out of boredom last year and also the reason I have decided to read this entire collection, I haven't read anything else by Arthur C.
This collection makes me interested in reading more, but not out of boredom, not anymore.
