https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/764061.The_Autobiography_of_Miss_Jane_Pittman
The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman: Ernest J. Gaines' novel of the long journey to freedom The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman by Ernest J. Gaineswas a selection chosen by members of On the Southern Literary Trail as a group read for January, 2016. Special thanks to Trail member  Jane for nominating this work.  A Note from the incomplete reader The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman was originally published by Ernest J. Gainesthrough the Dial Press in 1971. A second printing followed in 1
The "Teacher" emerges much as Homer does in The Odyssey, calling on Jane Pittman to tell of her personal odyssey to freedom from the final days of her life as a slave during the American Civil War up to the Civil Rights Movement of the early 1960s.
"I had been trying to get Miss Jane Pittman to tell me her story of her life for several years now, but each time I asked her she told me there was no story to tell.
Gaines said,"Some people have asked me whether or not The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman is fiction or nonfiction.
Miss Jane Pittman is a spunky survivor, a strong black woman over 100 years old.
Gaines said that he grew up on a plantation in Louisiana around his handicapped aunt and other older people who visited her.
He also used slave narratives in researching her story.The role of the strong black man also comes through in the book.
The reader feels like they are spending an afternoon in Louisiana talking with the wonderful Miss Jane Pittman.Interesting interview with Ernest J.
Miss Jane lived through black history, first as a slave in Louisiana, then as a strong, courageous woman trying to maintain her sense of worth and dignity while being treated as less than human by white southerners.
Miss Jane is describing the floods of 1927, the levees that failed because white men thought they could control the rivers by force, and the lasting damage that was done.
"Now he's built his concrete spillways to control the water.
But one day the water will break down his spillways just like it broke through the levee.
begins with Ticey, a ten or eleven year-old slave girl who assumes a new name, Jane, at the advice of a Yankee soldier.
It ends almost 100 years later when Jane, now Miss Jane Pittman, becomes witness to the birth of a new era of freedom.
I had it in the back of my mind for years that I had read this book or at least seen the movie but the truth is I had not.
It is a challenge to tell 100 years of history in under 300 pages and there are places where the pace gets a little choppy but this is to be expected considering the plot device put forth in the introduction.
The author using the guise of an autobiography, has Miss Jane Pittman, who lives to be around 110, telling her story and it's quite an interesting one as she lived through being a slave, to emancipation, and on through to the civil rights era.
I think I read this first in Junior High-school , that's probably why it reminded me of a school assignment.
It has it's dramatic moments but overall Jane comes across as a bit unemotional and the book generally lacked the detail I wanted more of.
I've read lots of interesting books about this time period.
I love Gaines easy writing style. One the best protagonist in southern literature. Excellent!
It followed the life of Jane Pittman from her childhood as a slave through emancipation, trying to get out of Louisiana, then as an adult working on a plantation (still in Louisiana,) and ended up with her over 100 years old (still in Louisiana) becoming a civil rights activist.
Jane was a "sassy" lady, and although I never fell in love with her, I do admire her ability to carry on and survive so many hardships that I can only imagine (by reading books like these.) I wish there had been a little more emotion in this biography.
I'm left wondering if Jane was really devoid of too much emotion (surely a blessing) or if the writing just couldn't carry it through.
This powerful autobiography was the catalyst that lead me to reading more slave narrative in the late 90's.
It is written in "the guise of tape-recorded recollections of a woman born as a slave in the 1850s." This line is taken directly from the book.The book description here at GR goes on to say:"In this woman Ernest Gaines has created a legendary figure, a woman equipped to stand beside William Faulkner's Dilsey in The Sound And The Fury."There is one huge difference.
Faulkner's writing skills are so very much better than Gaines'.
Even if Faulkner purposefully confuses the reader, which annoyed me to no end, one cannot help but marvel at his creative ability and beautifully descriptive lines.
It does not in detail cover the history of all Blacks in America.
My mother's ex-boyfriend forced me to watch the entire miniseries of Roots as a punishment for something I did that I can't recollet when I was nine years old.
Eager to find more films like Roots, I checked The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman out at the library on vhs.
Firstly, at nine years old I knew that the word 'autobiography' meant a true story narrated by the actual person i.e Miss Jane Pittman.
(yes, I know I was way too attached to Miss Jane Pittman).What else I didn't like about this story, she wasn't relateable.
I enjoyed this story from beginning to end.
I usually attempt to read a book about black history or read a book written by a black author or both.
I think I shall check to see if Amazon has the movie and will watch it after I finish the book.The book is fiction but is written in the style of oral history.
The author’s brilliantly crafted book interweaves historical references and recollections into an overall framework of the life of a woman born into slavery who survived to the point of the beginning of the civil rights movement of the 1960s.
I read this book in two sittings.
It wasn't easy at first, but once you got introduced to Miss Jane Pittman the rest was easy.
How could you not love a character, a woman, so enduring?
How could you not weep at the loss of her only "son".
This story is written richly, and with so much emotion that you can't help but to pull for her.
Though, the subject matter was dark, the book itself wasn't dark.
When Miss Pittman was hurt, you too, were hurt somewhere deep in your soul.
It was such a great read, This review simply cannot do this book justice.
Jane Pittman is a woman around 110 years old as she tells about her life from a slave to a protester on the cusp of the Civil Rights movement.
Life is tough during Reconstruction, but gets worse during the Jim Crow period.
Yet, Jane lives on.I found the contrast of Jane's life humorous.
It just seemed to me such a contrast to the many hardships she experienced in her previous 90 years on earth.Although some people have thought this book is non-fiction, it is not.
However, it is written in such a way that you almost believe that Miss Jane Pittman was real.
It is, however, much more than a novel.I had to read it over ten years ago in eighth grade history class, yet I can still recall the many different stories comprising the biography, nearly chronicling all the various manifestations of race relations throughout American history.
Four years after having read the book together in eighth grade history, a classmate in twelfth grade history asked, "Can black people vote?
Seriously?" I can only imagine if that we were required to discuss such books in light of their relevance to today rather than as tokens of the long-gone past, racism - be it in the form of aggression or sheer ignorance - would have a lesser chance of survival.
Ernest Gaines has been trying for so long to get in interview with the legendary Miss.Jane Pittman.
This book practically covers her whole life story going from her childhood when she was still in slavery to when the war was going to her sons life to where she is now.I have read the book so many times but i always feel that I am learning something new every time I read it again.As of my response to this story I feel like he did a really good job putting it together and making sure that he got all the information.
This is actually a unique story because you do not find a lot of novels that are about blacks in the south like Miss Pittman.I would recommend this book to a friend.
Ernest Gaines creates a legendary character in Miss Jane Pittman, a woman of 110 whose tape-recorded recollections and heroic experiences manage to carry the reader through American history and race relations from the Civil War through the beginnings of the Civil Rights Movement. I was reminded of 'The Odyssey', 'Little Big Man', 'Oldest Living Confederate Widow Tells All', and other novels that use this form, but Miss Jane Pittman's voice might be the most memorable of them all. Quick paced, poetic, and beautifully written. Highly recommended.
My favorite Ernest J. Gaines novel!
I'm a little salty about that ending! Miss Jane Pittman was a hoot though.
I read this and saw the movie a long time ago, but it was well worth the second read! A century through the eyes of a woman who experienced it. As much as freedom from slavery was well deserved and needed, the African-Americans had to go through such horrors (KKK) and though this book goes to the civil rights movement, the hardships many suffer by white privilege still happen today.
A rough read about what it was like for those freed by the emancipation proclamation and what life after included. The narrator is a falsified persona, Jane Pittman, who recollects and narrates her 110 years of hardship, loss, love, and bravery.It was just really raw, full of hardship, and unfortunately so much of it still exists for PoC in today's society.
Many of the impending deaths were forecast well in advance so I think that defused the emotional resonance the losses could have had.By the time I got to the last section of the novel, and Jimmy being "the one" I had really just lost interest.
Other issues -- like Jane's relationship with Joe Pittman's daughters, that I would have liked to have heard about were just glossed over.
I found that to be a rather simplistic story, something that would appeal to high school students maybe, or people without much experience reading complex narratives.
I respected how the author could tell the stories of other characters through the narrative of Miss.
At first when Jane Pittman didn't achive arriving in Colorado I was concerned with what the author was going to do next and how he could make her into a heroine.
She was a strong protagonist that was determined and what made her a heroine was the very thing that she did in her society.This novel was written simply, the character's story wasn't something that was boosted by the author, the mind of the woman was plain but solid and yet this book was a big, beautiful and important novel.
Seems like everyone around me had this as required reading in high school.
This book focused on Miss Jane Pittman, who through her narrative, described what happened through different time periods, including slavery up until the Civil Rights period.
Not that I'm a staunch disbeliever - but for some reason I don't like reading about religion.
But I understand why this is such a big deal - most people during this period relied on religion to get them through the tough times.As mentioned before, this is a very good book.
I encourage all to read it if you haven't.
I remember watching the movie "The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman" with Cicely Tyson.
I remember reading this years ago.
I read it on my kindle this time.
a young man goes to the house of Jane Pittman.
the current time is the early 1960s.
it is during the civil rights time.
Miss Jane Pittman is being interviewed since she was about 11 when the civil war ended and she was a slave at the time.
This book takes Miss Jane from that time to the early 60s she recalls her life during this time, the ups and downs.
a pretty good read.
Jane Pittman's storytelling begins just before the emancipation of slaves, following the Civil War. When she finds out she is free, she immediately sets out for the state of Ohio, thinking she will reunite with Yankee Corporel Brown.
Corporel Brown gives her the first taste of freedom she ever enjoys, when he changes her name from her slave name, Ticey to Jane.
After Jane receives her freedom, she walks for days, but still finds herself in "Luzana." It is in the Deep South that Jane continues to live out her years.
Her entire story spans from the Civil War till the Civil Rights movement.
This is an EXCEPTIONAL historical fiction book written in an autobiographical style. Miss Jane is an unforgettable, vibrant character. To live to the age of 110 or more, & having known what slavery was, & her travels & life, is fascinating. I literally almost couldn't put it down. When the book ends, in the 1960's, abruptly, I was left gasping, thinking, WHY???? It's a powerful read..... anyone that has a heart for history, etc will love this. I RARELY rate a book as a 5 star read, but this one well deserves it.
Gaines is a master with voices. I came away from the book feeling sad, because I wanted to spend more time with Miss Jane. I also learned some surprising things about history-- from slavery and the civil war, to the civil rights period--details I haven't seen elsewhere.It's hard to say which I like more-- A Lesson Before Dying or this book. I think Lesson is probably richer on more levels, but like I said, Miss Jane it just someone you really want to know. I can't wait to read more of Gaines' books.
I adored this book. Its sensitivity in discussing relations among southerners of all ages and colors during a time when the courts were legalizing Jim Crow segregation was rich and provocative. Frankly, I thought the book did a better job of explaining life in the Jim Crow South than half the history books I read.I'm sure it had a great ending, too, but unfortunately some a$$hole stole it, along with my car. And now the library wants $94 to replace. Ay yay yay.
I makes me feel really sorry for Jane she started as a slave going to freedom and then getting turned back into a slave. It's really hard for me to imagine what life was for a African American, but it sounds like that they hard super hard time. I really hate when when people get killed and for a reason. Miss Lily is kinda harsh on the kids. I still can't get the book. There are way to many facts. So many fact that I can't keep track of.
