https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/800549.The_Complete_Richard_Hannay
Completely un-PC, right wing, colonial, pro-war, unbelievably ludicrous plots but great to read.
I have always liked John Bucan's The Thirty-Nine Steps, and I enjoyed reading it again on my kobo arc.John Buchan's was a great writer, thrills and suspense on every page. I recommend his writing to anyone willing to go back to the 'old' books.
Further adventures of Richard Hannay, in a convenient single volume edition for all the lovers of 'Thirty-nine steps'.
Of the five stories included, 'The Thirty-Nine Steps' is the best known, simply, I suspect, no because of the various film (and recently stage) adaptations.
The two stories set amid Wirld War 1, 'Greenmantle' and 'Mr Standfast' both had plenty to enjoy but I actually found the two set post-WW1 more satisfying overall: 'The Three Hostages' particularly held my interest, largely because of the psychology within the characterisations - and perhaps because, by the time I read it, I had become familiar with various characters while 'The Island of Sheep' was also rewarding for its combination of character, setting and a relatively simpler plot.
This 'omnibus' includes the five Richard Hannay stories in 'novella' form.
Buchan is best known for the first of these because at least two films have been produced based on the work.
It is not the best of the bunch, though, and the films viewed now are second rate.
I would say Greenmantle or Mr Standfast are better books as they go into character and place in more depth and with more realism (and less coincidence).
Nevertheless, the stories are quite gripping, at times, and, unwittingly, perhaps, give us an idea about the social mores at play during the first decades of the twentieth century.

I can only try to imagine the impact this series had when written; it is a fantastic read today.
HannayA little dates in speech but nonetheless a compelling read.Need to remember the date when written when considering the tone and language
The 5 adventures in this book, all involving the heroic activites of Richard Hannay, were classic examples of something being wrong with my idea of readable reads, as they established the follwoing: -1) As long as the story was short, compact, and the hero had to rely on presence of mind, physical fitness, and practical courage to overcome the obstacles as well as to solve the myriad mysteries that he encountered in the process, the book remained "un-put-down-able".
This book is actually 1 short story and 4 novels in one. I got through the short sort, The 39 Steps, which is terrific. I loved being able to reconcile the story to all the movie versions I have seen. Then I res the next two novels, which were overly long. Too much political ruminating and just plain too much of everything. I finally decided I had had enough Richard Hannay and didn't bother reading the last 2 novels.
Anyone who is a fan of old movies -- and especially Hitchcock -- will recall "The Thirty-nine Steps," the quintessential spy thriller involving the ordinary guy dragged into a war-time conspiracy.
The first remains the best, but the others, especially Greenmantle and Mr Standfast (both war novels), are good too.
Buchan is at his best when his hero is dismantling a vast world-wide conspiracy to destroy the free world, and part of the charm of these pre-Bond books is that the conspiracies feel just a bit dated and the masterminds just a bit simple.
If I was to review that story alone I'd give it a clear 4 stars, but I've averaged it out for the collection at 3.
Having said that they do have there own charm in the way they represent attitudes and prejudices of those times.As an example of the mores you'll find in these books, Buchan is suspected of racism and particularly anti Semitism, and there are passages to support that in the books.
You'll either like, or at least accept, the dated nature of the books, or you won't.This collection will go on my shelves with my complete Dashiell Hammett and Chandler.
I've finished reading the 39 Steps, and find the style quite stilted and the plot too straight forward to keep my interest for long.
I know why I enjoyed this book as a teenager, as it is simple, clear, with not too many complex ideas to explore (as an adolescent one needs one's resources for other things).
Reading this was a bit like eating pancakes for lunch, they are filling, tasty with toppings, but don't give you much nutrition and you end up feeling hungry soon after, and wishing you'd eaten a BLT instead.
I'll read the other Richard Hannay stories in the book, just for nostalgia's sake.
Enjoyable early 20th century adventure stories From a different era with some racial and ethnic prejudices but a fascinating precursor to some spy/thriller works today. Hero always respects the humanity of his opponents. Honour and integrity important virtues. Most will have read or watched (stage or TV productions) of The Thirty Nine Steps.
one of the early superheroes, but always an English gentleman withal. Great fun. While the gung-ho attitudes and stiff-upper-lippishness sometimes gets a bit much, it needs to be borne in mind that these books were written specifically as propaganda to help the war effort - Buchan's real feelings on the war are not Hannay's.
I've finished the first book in this volume, The Thirty-Nine Steps, so my rating is currently based on that one novel.Well written and easy to read. The first person narrative gets you into Hannay's adventures very quickly. Cracking stuff!
I love John Buchan's writing. I've read the 39 Steps before and loved it, so I was delighted to find this.The other stories continue to follow the adventures of the reluctant spy, Richard Hannay, through a number of different adventures.
generally excellent but a tad repetitive. the plotline at times could be guessed 50 pages before....
Loved the old empire style of language and thinking, not applicable to our generation any more, but perhaps a little could be. Fast paced but all the stories are similar.
I love Hannay so much - the accidental hero, and spy.
Honkey grandpa be trippin.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/11358864
