https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5094.The_Drawing_of_the_Three
And in fact, with "The Drawing of the Three", the genius move arrives right on time like a clockwork.
Il pistolero si sveglia dopo un sonno che forse è durato anni con l'unico scopo di reclutare i tre, senza i quali il viaggio verso la Torre Nera non potrà continuare...Avevo ragione a sostenere nella mia recensione al primo capitolo della serie "La Torre Nera" che nei volumi successivi ci sarebbe stata una svolta, che "L'Ultimo cavaliere" rappresentava una sorta di introduzione nella quale nulla veniva rivelato apertamente.
come cavolo ti viene in mente quello che scrivi?
(B-) 71% | SatisfactoryNotes: It plays tunes of discomfort by pulses and shrieks, sagging for lengths in its middle but picking up pace near the end.
What the hell did I just read?The Drawing of the Three is as far as I can tell, a unique literary experience.The second book in King’s The Dark Tower series, published 5 years after The Gunslinger, this really begins The Dark Tower series.
And King chooses as his “mundane” a series of grotesques: a junkie, a mentally unstable victim, and a monstrous sociopath, and Roland is the fulcrum about which these levers and torques join the fantastic to the real.King’s narrative and characterization powers are in full display in The Drawing of the Three.
And now he has to worry about dying- before he can follow through with THE DRAWING OF THE THREE...First Door (1987)- The Prisoner: Eddie Dean- Eddie is a young heroin addict who is traveling by air, attempting to smuggle cocaine into New York for the drug lord Enrico Balazar...but the flight attendants are becoming a little bit suspicious of him, and Roland is going to have to step in to get Eddie out of some veeeeeeery hot water.Second Door (1964)- The Lady of Shadows: Odetta Holmes- Odetta is a wealthy, wheelchair-bound black woman, missing her legs below the knees- after being pushed in front of a subway train.
Unlike the dry Book One which was following one man in an endless desert;Here are Three  doing so..The More the Merrier indeed. The Drawing of Three Oh and it's endless beach this time..with monstrous crabs.. so much fun, trust me :)لا أنكر أن الفيلم هو سببا رئيسيا لمتابعتي للسلسلة رغم انه كان مبسطا جدا ودون مستوي عمق روايات ستيفين كينج عامالكن الفيلم وضح قليلا من فكرة "برج الظلام" المبني عليها أحداث الرواية ، ويعدك بأن السلسلة بها ثغرات تؤدي لعوالم موازية، ازمنة مختلفة، وحوش متنكرة بيننا ، وشيط

So what I can help you with?”“Well, I got my hand and my foot kind of torn up.”“Holy man Jesus, Roland!
Or were you jumped by demons?”“Actually, it was a creature that came out of the ocean and attacked me on a beach.”“Was it like some kind of giant mutant magic alligator?
Then your guns got all wet and when you dragged yourself out of the water, this damn lobster-whatever came up on your blind side, right?”“Uh, not exactly.
But you got your ass handed to you by one dog sized creepy crawlie because you fell asleep on a beach and let your guns get wet?
***The quest for the DARK TOWER continues*** Beginning mere hours after the events of the The Gunslinger, Roland Deschain wakes from his bizarre encounter with the Men in Black Man in Black to find himself on a strange beach. Before he can even get his bearings, he's attacked by  Killer Crabs  the Seafood from Hell in the form of ginormous, ill-tempered (though wonderfully delicious) “lobstrosities.” After a near fatal encounter with the vicious entrees, Roland finds himself seriously injured an
Beginning mere hours after the events of the The Gunslinger, Roland Deschain wakes from his bizarre encounter with the Men in Black Man in Black to find himself on a strange beach.
Roland’s investigation of these doors (each leading to a different year), his introduction to 2 of the 3 members of the group that will journey with him throughout the rest of the series (i.e. his “Ka-tet”) and the events leading up to their joining Roland's gang comprise the balance of this book.
I believe that anyone who has read the books and not listened to these stories on audio is REALLY MISSING SOMETHING WONDERFUL.
Available: Amazing Beach Front Property!!!  Plots available for building your dream home in a lush vacation paradise.Only 666 lots left! Little to no money down! Hurry! Act Now!!Great ocean view!! Mountains only an hour's drive away!Unlimited parking!You’re a doorway away from such exotic NYC entertainment as: Naked gunfights, wheelchair obstacle course, police car races, Whack-a-gangster, Bop-a-cop, and the locally famous flaming-creep subway run.For the sportsman: minutes from an unlimited s
Available: Amazing Beach Front Property!!!
  
Plots available for building your dream home in a lush vacation paradise.Only 666 lots left! Little to no money down! Hurry! Act Now!!Great ocean view!! Mountains only an hour's drive away!Unlimited parking!You’re a doorway away from such exotic NYC entertainment as: Naked gunfights, wheelchair obstacle course, police car races, Whack-a-gangster, Bop-a-cop, and the locally famous flaming-creep subway run.For the sportsman: minutes from an unlimited supply of fresh jumbo lobster meat. All-you-can-catch-and-eat!! Yummy!!!Contact Roland at Dad-A-Chuck Realtors. Tell him Odetta/Detta sent you for a free cocaine-filled balloon.
مرد سیاه‌پوش به شکل مردی به نام «والتر» درآمده است؛ کسی که به دروغ ادعا می‌کرد مدت‌ها قبل، پیش از آنکه دنیا تغییر کند، دوست پدر رولند بوده است.
هدف رولند رسیدن به این موجود انسان‌نما نیست، بلکه او می‌خواهد به برج تاریک برسد؛ رسیدن به مرد سیاه‌پوش و آگاهی از آنچه او می‌داند، نخستین گام او، در راه رسیدن به مکان مرموز است.
رولند کیست؟ دنیای او پیش از‌ آنکه تغییر کند، چگونه بوده است؟ برج تاریک چیست و چرا او به دنبالش است؟ هنوز پاسخی برای این پرسشها نداریم.
Will Roland survive long enough to bring his new ka-tet?This is when the Dark Tower really started coming together.
While the Gunslinger got me interested in the Dark Tower, this one grabbed me for the long haul.Thoughts from the April 2011 reread:Upon yet another re-reading, it seems really illogical that Roland let himself fall asleep so close to the ocean.
The battle between Roland and Eddie and Balazar's goons remains one of my favorite gunfights in the series.
Susannah is still my least favorite of the ka-tet.Thoughts from the April 2014 reread:The beginning is still shocking.
Without thought, with the simple resolve that had made him the last of them all, the last to continue marching on and on long after Cuthbert and the others had died or given up, committed suicide or treachery or simply recanted the whole idea of the Tower; with the single-minded and incurious resolve that had driven him across the desert and all the years before the desert in the wake of the man in black, the gunslinger stepped through the doorway. The journey to the Dark Tower continues, and t
Roland winds up on a beach in the middle of nowhere, and has to step through a doorway leading into the unknown, to find and recruit three rather unwilling companions for his journey.I’ve read several reviews and opinions saying that The Gunslinger is a weak start to the series, and that this book takes it up to another level.
I am, however, looking very much forward to reading the next book in the series.Onward to the Tower!"We are going to go, Eddie.
If the name of the main characters hadn’t been Roland, I wouldn’t have known that the two books are from the same series.
In total there will be three doors, as you might expect from the title, but the drawing will not be as straight forward as one would hope.
The plot is a lot more coherent, linear and less abstract than in The Gunslinger with a much faster pace, especially in the first part, when we meet Eddie.
I believe in Instalust but love at first sight makes me gag, especially in books where I do not expect this.
I have just finished this second in the series and I swear if the central character did not have the same name then I would hardly recognize this book as a continuation of the first.The Gunslinger introduced us to Roland and his quest for the Dark Tower and presumably the central plot of the whole series.
The Drawing of the Three increases the frustration because it really doesn't flow in the same direction as the first book.Frustration, yes but Stephen King is a master and while it feels you are reading two completely separate books, both of them intrigue and have you digging for the third volume.The Drawing of the Three takes a tangent away from the quest for the dark tower.
I continued to believe I was a Stephen King Elitist (SKE).After reading The Drawing of the Three, I can no longer deny it.
I always love these memories; many of which are filled with these kind of lines:"Fault always lies in the same place...with him weak enough to lay blame."I'm looking forward to finding out more about the Gunslinger's mysterious past.As a final note, let me just say, Eddie Dean is awesome, Detta and Odetta are crazy/insane, and Jack, well, not much to say except read it.
I will say no more.Why Read The Drawing of the Three?If you were a little dissatisfied with The Gunslinger, don't give up on The Dark Tower series yet.
Ded-a-check?”This bit of nonsense is likely to send shivers down the spine of Dark Tower fans, it is one of the most memorable scenes in the entire series which spans seven books (originally).
The Drawing of the Three is volume two of Stephen King’s epic Dark Tower series.
This book is all about Roland Deschain recruiting three characters from our world to help him in his quest for the Dark Tower.
The book does not end on a cliffhanger yet it does make you want to commit to the series, to follow Roland and his friends on the quest for the Tower, to see what happens next.
Door number two is marked, the Lady of Shadows and it is from that door that Roland draws Odetta Holmes/Detta Walker.
She has lost her legs in a horrifying accident but that is only the tip of the iceberg as the old saying goes.As Roland, Detta and Eddie travel up the beach in search of Door Number 3 they encounter a few obstacles.
I’m still hoping for the stainless steel cookware."So what does Door Number 3 bring?The Pusher .
Will he be drawn into this world as Eddie and Odetta/Detta were?Will Roland get his Keflex in time?Will the lobstrosities ever satisfy their hunger?All these questions will be answered.
Stephen King gets back to his old self and Stephen Kings all over the second book of the Dark Tower series.
I’ve read half of the series before, I know the next two books are really good, especially Wizard and Glass.
Anyway...Some people love the series from the beginning, some people love this book, some people hate the series, some people hate Stephen King.
We get to all have different opinions and lifestyles and stuff.
Sometimes I want tacos every day, all the time, and sometimes I...
I’ve been listening to it at work so it’s been a different experience than last time.
The amazing quest continues in this second installment of the series.Once again King introduced amazing characters.
I think most people would agree that flawed characters are way better than the perfect ones.Odetta Holmes was my second least favorite of the 4 main characters in this novel.
Detta was this evil character that kept complaining and finding ways to make sure the quest would end up a failure.
He was undeveloped in the end, and it felt like King didn't really make him likeable at all.
Aside from the struggles though, it was even better reading about the way Roland managed to perform the "drawing of the three".
The twists in this book are no better than those in The Gunslinger.
The Gunslinger made the cut as the better of the two because its characters, I realize, are given more time to shape.
Here the people in our world are not the equal of the man in the desert, or of the priestess, or of the woman who slept with Roland.
How was the third person going to end up?
I thought Roland needed Mort.
In the end though, it all comes to taste.
The book is good enough for me to hope for better.
Just not my kind of book or series I guess.I found some parts interesting but having to dig through the paragraph-long sentences that seemed to jump randomly from subject to subject just lost me. Some people really enjoyed this book. I've had many people recommend it. I passed the 50% mark today, which is my rule before giving up on a book, and decided I simply was NOT enjoying it at all and saw no point in continuing.  I'm really disappointed because I had heard so many good things about this series.
In the first novel, Roland talked about how the Dark Tower was some kind of nexus holding worlds and times together and The Drawing begins to explore and clarify this idea more so than the previous book did.It's very difficult to say much about the book without spoiling it, but King is to be commended for writing a book that varies in so many ways from the first novel and yet still seems a natural part of the world he created.
I knew ever since reading the first book that this series would only get better in time.
After accomplishing his first task, at the cost of someone's life, the book ends quite abruptly with not much of a cliffhanger.In this book, Roland travels in time to bring together the people, the cards he drew represent, together.
It was fast-paced and unlike the first book, the plot was really thick and complex and made me fall in love with this series and cannot actually wait to get my hands on the next book.
Just terrific! So many perfect characters to pick from in this and the back and forth from detta to Odetta just made the experience in between worlds that much more colorful. The adventures Roland has on Earth are just, well, unreal. It was sometimes hilarious, other times straight out of a superhero movie. Reading this series has been long overdue and I'm so happy to finally have the opportunity to give it the time it deserves.On to book 3!
Gunslinger awesomeness!! The Gunslinger blew me out of the water and this one was if possible even better! Stephen King is so good at people..I know he goes on a bit at times, but I have to tell you this book was just amazing! I used whispersync and the audio version on this was absolutely superb. Who would have thought a 'lobstrosity' could be so horrifying? Dud-a-chum? ‘Dod-a-chock? Brilliant!If you haven't picked up The Dark Tower yet, you really need to give it a chance. Genius!
I love Stephen King, but this series just isn't for me! I won't be continuing on with the series.
Book 1: 2.5*Book 2: 2.5*The dichotomy that is this series.
On the one hand I want to know how it turns out.
On the other I don't think I can do another book with senseless rants, non stop nostalgic pop culture references, stereotypes ad nauseam and a storyline that meanders aimlessly.
The characters are all tough to like.
Not because they have flaws but because they all have non sequitur inane ramblings that drive the reader to the brink of the craziness which drives the characters.
I simply cannot continue this series.
Roland needs some sidekicks to aid him in his quest to reach the Dark Tower, and some unknown entity or God is conveniently placing doors to the north of the beach that our gunslinger finishes his westward quest after The Man in Black.
"Nothing to me." Being a newcomer to the world of Roland (a blank slate), this Eddie Dean would make a useful literary device to let the reader learn more about this still generic country and about the backstory of our gunslinger.
I have avoided this series for years, and I loved this book!
We see Roland, unconscious on the beach, and the next thing we know he's involved in a life-and-death struggle with a weird lobster creature.
The introduction of our world into the book, with Roland able to step into and explore our culture, creates a link for the reader to identify with.
It is run-of-the-mill 20th century medicine that saves Roland's life.
these people don't have antibiotics!" Overall, I was on the edge of my seat for the entire read, and can't wait to start the next book.
I'll probably end up saying this for each book in the series so I apologize in advance!
But this series really does just get better and better with each book.
Especially from the first to this one, the difference is quite stunning!
Don't get me wrong, I loved the first book in the series!
And of course I can't end this review without mentioning my favourite part of this book, the characters.
I fell in love with Eddie and Susannah all over again.
I had forgotten just how much I loved them, Susannah especially!
I tend to do exceedingly well with highly predictable genres (eg: historical romances), have the occasional success with murder mysteries, but miss the mark entirely when it comes to more complex world building and/or character development.As I tend to get annoyed with predictability when it comes to anything other than the blindingly obvious, following Roland Deschain through the mysterious beach doors kept my mind locked in an epic story chock full of incredible action sequences, heart-breaking resolutions, liberally peppered with graphically horrifying slaughter scenes.There were several dull sequences, generally courtesy of lengthy descriptive passages, that still caused the reading experience to drag significantly.
