https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89551.Ramona_and_Her_Mother
عالي :)
I'm not able to think about Laura Ingels Wilder's "Little House" books objectively because when I hear a title or see one of the covers, I am brought back to my childhood bedroom and I can feel the weight of my mom at the end of my bed while she read aloud those books.A nice enough memory to be sure, but more so in light of the fact that things were frequently less than ideal at home.
At 7 and a half, with working parents and a sister at "a difficult age," Ramona Quimby tries hard to do her part to keep family peace.
Usually, however, she ends up behind every uproarious incident in the house.
Whether she's dying herself blue, watching while her young neighbor flings Kleenex around the house, or wearing her soft new pajamas to school one day (under her clothes, of course), Ramona's life is never dull.
Ramona Quimby is nothing if not lovable.Beverly Cleary's gift for understanding the tangle of thoughts and emotions in a child's mind and heart is remarkable.
Luckily, in addition to being empathic, witty, and astute, Cleary is also prolific.
An all-time legend, I stan <3http://www.frowl.org/worstbestsellers...
I love how complex we see the family relationships and situations are. That a haircut out of the house is such a luxury. But the kicker for me was mom coming in and helping Ramona pack to run away. Actual LOL.
The modern sisters to Ramona Quimby, Junie and Judy, in my opinion, are simply brats living in a world that I'd prefer not to share with my daughters (although, I must admit, they rather enjoy them).
Beverly Cleary's characters are believable and loveable, and the humor is timeless, good for full-belly laughter during bedtime reading.
We started reading the series of books starring Ramona Quimby, Beezus, Henry and their friends a few years ago, but we never made too much progress.
Despite my hubby's initial objections, we all enjoyed listening to the story together, and the setting brought back a sense of nostalgia for my hubby and I.
It's refreshing to see that as time passes, some things still stay the same.I like the Ramona's sincerity and the fact that she experiences real emotions.
We really enjoyed listening to this book together.
The Ramona books were a big part of my childhood reading, but I hadn't revisited Ramona and Her Mother in a couple of decades.
Boy does this book hold up!
When I played the audiobook for my kids on a road trip, I laughed and cried.
And I didn't even particularly like this narrator (Stockard Channing), so full credit goes to Beverly Clearly, who is a genius at understanding the soul of a child.
I can't think of a fictional character who is more real and more lovable than Ramona Quimby.
Every word rings true.
My kids loved the book too.
This is at times a touching, funny, relatable tale of Ramona when she is 7 and a half.Beverly Cleary as an amazing talent for writting about everyday life in an amusing, way, but also writes about life's little hardships that don't seem so little when you are living them.Enjoyed this book immensely!
Ramona and Her Mother (Ramona Quimby #5), Beverly Cleary عنوان: رامونا و مادرش؛ نوشته: بورلی کلی یری؛ مترجم: پروین علیپور، نشر: افق
Once again, Cleary pulled up incidents from my own past.
Seven-year-old Ramona admits that she's always wanted to pull Kleenex out of a box, just for the joy of pulling them.
Then she wants to squeeze a new tube of toothpaste, sculpting a shape from the long white 'worm' that keeps growing.
Ramona would have approved.Here's the opening sentence of the book.
It says so much; no words are wasted."When will they be here?" asked Ramona Quimby, who was supposed to be dating the living room but instead was twirling around trying to make herself dizzy.
I have read that not being able to find books containing characters she could relate to frustrated Cleary as a child; she went on to earn a library science degree and spent a lot of time around children who felt the same way she did.
In writing her books, Cleary created a world of wonderful characters and stories that children could relate to for decades, and I would just like to say THANK YOU!!Much to my utter amazement, there is a new (to me) Ramona book that came out in 1999 called “Ramona’s World”.
I feel awful giving this book three stars.
But my girls and I are listening to the series on audiotape (read by Stockard Channing), and I just didn't enjoy this one as much as the others.
I think what I didn't like about this book so much is that its real - the bad haircut, the struggle to be understood, the perceived unfairness.
But it felt like this book had more problems than it did happy times.
My girls give this book five stars, and given that they are the audience it was written for, I suppose that is what matters!
سری 8 جلدی کتابهای رامونا رو به پیشنهاد و برای همراهی و تشویق خواهرزادهی 10 سالهام که تازه شروع به مطالعه کرده است خوندم. خیلی خیلی از خوندنشون لذت بردم. کتابها با اینکه در غالب داستان برای بچهها نوشته شده بود ولی در اصل روانشناسی کودک بود. بعد از خوندن این سری کتابها دیدم نسبت به دنیای بچهها و کارهایی که میکنند عوض شد. فکر میکنم از بعد از اون روابطم هم با بچهها بهتر شده. از سری کتابهایی هستند که حتما باز هم میخونمشون.
سری 8 جلدی کتاب‌های رامونا رو به پیشنهاد و برای همراهی و تشویق خواهرزاده‌ی 10 ساله‌ام که تازه شروع به مطالعه کرده است خوندم. خیلی خیلی از خوندنشون لذت بردم. کتاب‌ها با اینکه در غالب داستان برای بچه‌ها نوشته شده بود ولی در اصل روانشناسی کودک بود. بعد از خوندن این سری کتاب‌ها دیدم نسبت به دنیای بچه‌ها و کارهایی که می‌کنند عوض شد. فکر می‌کنم از بعد از اون روابطم هم با بچه‌ها بهتر شده. از سری کتاب‌هایی هستند که حتما باز هم می‌خونمشون.
Interest Level Grades 3 - 5Grade Level Equivalent 4.1http://www.scholastic.com/teachers/bo...
I look forward to reading this one to my girls.
I'm currently reading these books (out of order) with my youngest daughter. I know I read them when I was young, but besides the toothpaste tube incident, I didn't really remember much.
เลมนีสนุกมากแอบมีนำตาคลอเลกๆ ดวย
เล่มนี้สนุกมากแอบมีน้ำตาคลอเล็กๆ ด้วย
M relates how it is the world, rather than the book, which has changed, such that if written today, the book would seem to be an endorsement of radical Islamic politicism, led by a charismatic leader, whereas at the time--and therefore now inaccessible to the younger reader, was the fact that the book was a sort of distillation of American Romanticism about the Arab world.
instantly these books were relegated to the back shelf of war non-fiction, as once again the idea of country vs.
yes, I guess, ultimately, Ramona 4 and 5 probably just about equal the rest of Cleary's output.
This book doesn't have a really interesting plot, because it talks about a little girl named Ramona' life.
I didn't love this book but didn't hate it either, because it didn't have emotional moments nor a lot of excitement but I liked how it spoke about how a little five year old girl feel's in those moments of her life.
Because in this chapter Ramona's mother find's brand new Pajamas Ramona is of course extremely happy about it because it was her very first piece of clothing that didn't belong to her sister before her.
Ramona confronts real insecurities about her relationship with her mother that are heartfelt and understandable for a 2nd grade girl.I would use this book in my classroom library as it is a clever account of realistic fiction with prose that is easy to read with funny stories that keep you paging through each chapter.
I would have the Ramona series in my classroom library, but I would also make sure that I had several other family/relationship multicultural realistic fiction books available as not all students would identify with the story as I did.
Beverly Cleary's books were among the first chapter books I ever read to myself after I learned to read.
I have re-read some to my older children (before Goodreads was invented), our family has listened to the audiobooks during car trips, and now I've just finished reading this one -- Ramona and Her Mother -- out loud to my 4-year-old daughter.
It's the first chapter book my daughter has ever had read to her, and she really loved it (though she would have liked more pictures.) Poor Ramona.
And my 4-year-old is eager to read another!
Poor misunderstood Ramona learns that life is just not always wonderful, grown-ups are not perfect, sisters can be friends, and that she is loved and cherished by her mother amidst all of it.This contemporary realistic fiction novel is a great way for students to learn how to identify with a character’s experiences.
These realistic themes of childhood, changes, and growth are what make this novel appropriate for the contemporary realistic fiction category.I would love to integrate this book into a 2nd or 3rd grade classroom by reading it aloud to my students.
I feel like this book was all over the place; it had different & random stories about a 7 1/2 year old spoiled little girl in every chapter.
There was a lack of discipline in the household; Ramona assumed things way to much & her reactions to things like in chapter 7 was one of a child that has little respect for others & believes the world revolves around her!
This is a personal opinion but I can't stand children like that!
Talk about boring!
I like when a book regardless of it's genre keeps me wanting to know me.
Ramona, a youngest child, is now struggling to figure out how to be her mother's big girl.
Ramona acting out in various ways is a symptom of her difficulty figuring out how to transition into "big-girl-hood," and I think most children (but especially children who are the youngest in their families) will relate to that feeling.
The antics Ramona engages in in this book are based on realistic urges and interests--like usual, she's not just misbehaving in impractical ways to get attention.
Her thoughts make sense framed the way they are, even though adults sputter and react to her like "Why would you do this??" But we know, because we readers are invited into this special child's head.
My strongest childhood memory of Ramona's mom is actually from the VHS adaptations of Cleary's books.
She seemed so tired and defeated, like a less zany Lois from Malcom in the Middle.
On the one hand, I thought Ramona's mom, however realistic and loving, was a mean lady who should never have had kids.
My mom is very much a rose-tinted-glasses, hide-drama-from-kids type).
On the other hand, I didn't blame good ole Mrs. Q for her attitude, because Ramona and Beezus sounded like a handful.
Readalikes: Other Beverly Cleary titles, Judy Blume's Fudge series, Clementine books by Sarah Pennypacker, Gooney Bird Greene by Lois Lowry
It's so interesting to read/reread this series as a mom - they make me incredibly nostalgic for my own childhood (when I was the age that Ramona is in each of the books) as well as for the first time I read them myself (probably around age 10 or so).
They make me terribly grateful for my mother, who was very much like Mrs. Quimby.
And with this book in particular I can see in Ramona my own children's desire to be loved and needed by their mother.
Cleary has Ramona's mother come across as no-nonsense and sensible.
I wonder how much Ramona's mother was influenced by her own mom.
I think she could have gone a little deeper here and mined for more material.
The "quarrel" chapter seemed unbelievable to me as a kid and still seems unbelievable as an adult.
The quarrel seemed really pretty tame, and it is hard to believe that Beezus and Ramona have not seen or heard their parents argue before.But as always, Cleary gets into what it is like to be a kid.
Doing stupid stuff, thinking the world is against you, being jealous.
Only update is that I've grown more fond of pancakes.03-16-2008"'Some grandmother,' said Mr. Quimby, 'spitting on her stockings.'"As a kid, I didn't own a copy of this, so I didn't read it quite as much as Ramona and Her Father, but I loved it just the same. A comments discussion from a Jezebel.com book review mentions the infamous pancake turner incident with Mr. and Mrs. Quimby. Cleary simply titles that chapter "The Quarrel," but oh man, she remembers how seriously kids take their parents' arguments. Maybe this explains why I don't like pancakes.
Beverly Cleary is at the top of her game in this installment. It's crazy to think that Cleary only wrote one or two of these Ramona novels every decade! Can you imagine other series spread, not just over a kid's childhood but lifetime! This book in particular is a perfect blend of wacky situations and reflections on the tender anxieties of being a young person who just wants to be SEEN by her family.
