https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1454666.Gadsby
(PS I did not apply a big quantity of clocks hours to build this form of words so though a difficult task, not too difficult; but shows that that limit for finding right words crafts a poor outlook as a conclusion for yours truly and Wright?) Now a bit from Gadsby: "Youth is wisdom in formation, and with it many thoughts startling to adult minds....
There seem varied, great feelings deep inside me; the writer Ernest limited the text, subject here reviewed, made use certain letters exclusively.
Finale applied myself?: conclusively the second limited text style being the more complex!
It's an overly cute - I'd have to say trite - "Our Town" style story about John Gadsby and his campaign to wake up the sleepy little town of Branton Hills through his Organization of Youth - both turning the little town into a booming city and empowering the next generation.It's a very dated (written in 1939 and set well before that) book and carries the same sensibility.
Some of it is cute, some is even motivational, but a lot is syrupy and sickly sweet, which to be fair was the way of storytelling back then.A shorter novel - clocking in at 123 pages - you can probably get through it before the "no 'e'" novelty wears off but all you'll really take away from it is the fact that he pulled it off.
But it is so difficult (and slow) to think in such a way that I will quit and go back to normal, although I must pat my own back for writing this far without using that tiny but important thing known as an E.When I first saw this book listed at Project Gutenberg, I had to wonder why anyone would try to pull such a stunt.
A story of 50,000 words without using a single E?!
This story felt like reading a letter from an old friend, and I was actually sorry to come the end, but happy with the way everything turned out.
Orthography apart, this writing is of an old fashion, high on words and in particular morals. Though grabbing and humorous on occasion, this book is not worth going through for anything but linguistic admiration. Notwithstanding this, I am taking off my imaginary hat to this author’s cunning handling of words. I know now how vastly difficult this is.
The problem is nothing to do with the lack of the letter "e", which the author handles very skilfully at times, but his apparent aversion to any sort of conflict in the story.
It's not that I wanted it to be The Godfather or anything like that, but there were hundreds of opportunities to at least have an argument between a couple of characters, but it just never happened.However, I would heartily recommend the preface (which does actually include the letter "e"), which is quite fun.
I would even recommend reading through the book a bit, just to convince yourself that it is possible to write a book without the letter "e".


I was told of this book, which was fully intact, without containing any sign of a particularly familiar symbol. Upon finishing this work, I now call out for a book contribution that maintains a similar constraint AND contains a stimulating plot. To put it bluntly, this particular story is simply boring.
The book is a great novelty considering the fact that it is a lipogram. Yet that is about it. The story almost completely revolves around the building of a city which (in my opinion)is horribly slow to read.
This book is famous for not having any words using a particular symbol that usually hangs out with A, I, O, and U.
(Tis a hard thing to do, I am finding.) It's sooo amazing that Wright could accomplish a sound story with that mission, and at fifty thousand words on top of that.
It's a bit slow, a bit boring.
I don't know how much of that is word choosing, (as it truly limits your options) which could hurt his writing -though I kind of doubt it.
And, so I stay fair, it's not all boring/slow.
An interesting concept, and very cleverly written, but the constrictions make it very difficult to follow at times. Unfortunately the story itself isn't particularly interesting, and feels like a series of uninteresting anecdotes. I did struggle with the amount of casual sexism and racism, which isn't surprising in a book from the 30's, but still isn't nice to encounter. Overall I'd say steer clear, as there are more interesting and impressive examples of constrained writing out there.
The authors commitment to this is very clearly and entertainingly declared in the preface.
The story is where this book starts to flounder.
If you really enjoyed "Leave it to Beaver" or show like it then this the book you're looking for.
There's definitely points where the author could have dug deeper to develop the plot or characters better, but both stay pretty two-dimensional throughout the book.I used to want a book with no conflict, but now I realize that this just doesn't bring the story or characters to life the same way that a struggle can.
First of all, let me add my praises for the huge accomplishment of writing a book of 50000 words and not one of them has the letter e.
A great feat accomplished back in 1939 and I don't know if another author replicated such a hugh task.
I thought since it was only 105 pages long, I put my earphones on and by the time I finished washed my car, I would be finished with the book.
I read a book that people of that time thought was not possible.
That symbol which is so common in our Anglo-Saxon orthography has no occasion to show up in this story.Translation- Ernest Vincent Wright wrote this book with the E bar of the typewriter tied down. Therefore, there's no E in the entire story.Characters such as the eponymous mayor John Gadsby, his Youth Organization, and a diverse cast of characters from the city of Branton Hills will appear in this narrative. A warning- if you can't follow the rather convoluted narrative (see explanation above), you shouldn't read this.
Having read the first few chapters of this novel... while I am impressed with Wright's cleverness and tenacity, the actual plot and characters do not grab me thus far. I understand this is primarily a gimmick book but will give it a few more pages before hitting the quit button.
great effort for missing a letter, shame about the content, which proves to be a cliche...
Great Novel , The novel is written as a lipogram and does not include words that contain the letter "e".
The book's synopsis clearly states that the plot of Gadsby is not at all compelling; unfortunately for me, I did not heed this simple warning and dove somewhat headfirst into this novel.
Granted, with all the blank spaces (between chapters, at the end of a chapter mid-page) the book comes out to around 110 pages, there isn't a ton of time to develop any major problems, but everything just felt like a trifle.
Wright (a la narrator) focused on men and women a lot, particularly their differences, which detracted a little from the overarching plot but did not offend me like it did to others.
There are times that Wright really makes it look effortless.Though heartwarming, there's a bittersweet undertone to the book when one reads it in the 21st century.
Like the Little House series or Anne of Green Gables, this is a book that documents a sadly long lost era.
It's an era where church and marriage are revered, where there's a true spirit of civic pride and community, where there's a zeitgeist of innocence instead of cynicism and foul-mindedness, where modesty and chastity in both men and women are still prized.
It's sad that such a beautiful culture is all but lost forever.
Expansive, engaging—even revelatory—the novel remains readable despite the strangely limited lexicon. Less narrative thread, more meditation over some themes, yet interesting nonetheless. He's quite clever; he does fine, even eschewing sentence elements like the ones I've used here.
I thought it would be fun to read as this 50,000 word book does not contain the letter "e". But the premise (otherwise) didn't interest me and I was very confused :/
I have said this before for many times and will say it again: There are far, far better books out there that need my attention than this sleeping pill of a story. Good-bye, Mr. Wright.
Interesting idea, but very hokey in practice.
WHY WONT THIS LOAD ON MY E-READER?!?! ARGH!!
Gadsby by Ernest Vincent Wright is a novel of over 50,000 words, not once using the letter “E”.
This is known as a lipogram: a written work where the author constrains themselves, usually by omitting some specific letter.
There have been many lipograms by many authors, most of them either omitting a less essential letter, or omitting “E” in a FAR shorter work.
In tribute, I will attempt a single paragraph of review without the letter “E”.Gadsby is a story of “Youth’s Champion, John Gadsby.
Branton Hills blooms to a modish city and a paragon of civic growth, with Gadsby as its mayor.
Of course I already know that this book has no letter E on it.
I just want to know how the author was able to deliver a novel without the most used letter in the English language.
Not the utopia Karl Marx is imagining though.Do not expect much from the story.
It's a classic in a sense that it's a 50,000-word novel without the letter E.
You'll be amazed how the author was able to describe things, though usually long because of the No E Rule.
Read it because of the utopia it offers.Read my review here.
It was boring.
If it weren't a lipogram, I don't know if I would have finished this book.The characters are all so OLD.
Their sensibilities, their mannerisms, just everything is so incredibly old.
War occurs?
Send the sons!
Women want to go?
Women should stay home and take care of the children, because that's all they're good for!The demonizing of alcohol, the gag-inducing cutesy'ness of the marriages, this whole story is just so overbearing with turn-of-the-century morality.As far as my rating goes, this is what it all boils down to.
It was a happy story.
Nobody writes happy stories (mainly because they're boring).
Wright wrote a book which makes no sense on his try to avoid letter "E".
I found many times myself either struggling to understand what he was trying to describe or I was forgetting what I was reading.
It's impressive the fact that he managed to write a lipogram, but this book doesn't offer anything at all according to my belief.
The writer didn't manage to make pictures which tease reader's imagination and make him travel to another world, because he couldn't describe obviously in a precise everything.
I'd recommend this book, if only someone's interested to see how a lipogram is, but that's all.
It cannot offer anything else.
I like the concept of lipogram, where the letter e is avoided in a 50k words novel.
However, I find it hard to get along well with Capitalized letters in Sentences just to avoid Word "the".
The layout of the book is terrible.
Unnecessary blank rows between every single paragraph take up a big portion of the pages.
Each section starts from the centre of the page, which makes me feel bad.
The book is big, but thin.
It would have been much better to if I could carry a novel that is not as big as the magazines.
