https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29966.The_Shape_of_Things_to_Come
H.G. Wells looks into the future8 August 2010 This book is what is termed as being future history and some say that it is an extension of HG Wells' historical text 'A Short History of the World'. It is suggested that what Wells is doing is using recent history to look forward to the next stage of human evolution. It is not the first time that he has done this, and in fact prior to World War I (which at the time was known as the great war) he had written some predictive texts such as 'The War in
It is suggested that what Wells is doing is using recent history to look forward to the next stage of human evolution.
This book could be split into two sections, the first smaller section looking back to the immediate history of humanity, and the second section looking forward to what he was predicting as the coming Modern State, a one world government in which humanity was free from all of the restraints of the past and that each and every human being could reach their full potential.
Forced labour seemed so just and reasonable a punishment that whenever the possibility of using it profitably appeared the authorities set themselves to multiply indictable offenses and bring luckless people into unpaid servitude....drawing its sustenance from their degradation, there is arising again an intricate tangle of exploiting classes, entrepreneurs, wholesalers, retailers, money-lenders,...politicians, private and corporation lawyers, investors and landowners..."It makes one wonder where the borderline between convicts, Dubai-esque work permits, and temporary "cultural" visas begins and ends in our globalized labor markets.
As a novel, if the book were modeled on the movie’s structure, it might merit more respect – I see it following another apocalyptic novel, A Canticle for Leibowitz (a favorite): The first part would be set during the collapse of the West; the second part would occur during the reconstruction; and the final section would be set in the civilization that eventually emerges.But I ramble…Regarding the novel, Wells sets up the conceit that a scientist of our own era has received messages from the future purportedly showing what happens between the end of the Great War (1918) and 2106.
Having said that ‘The Shape of Things to Come’ simply isn’t the glorious allegory fest that is ‘The Time Machine’ or ‘The War of the Worlds’ and boy does it show.The story is told through the words of a fictional League of Nations diplomat Doctor Philip Raven, with Wells penning an introduction and occasionally intervening in the text as an editor.
‘The Shape of Things to Come’ certainly reads like a book where the writer has completely had their way and if ever there was a book in dire need of a good hard editing this is it.
A noteworthy item is of a comical minor indecent between two men that ultimately precipitates into that second world-war in 1940, which much like something Kurt Vonnegut might have come up with.Perhaps because to the book was written during the beginning of the great depression, Wells is not very optimistic as to how his contemporaries and their offspring would generally handle world affairs.
There are important roles played by contemporary prominent people such as Henry Ford, President Henry Roosevelt and even Aldolf Hitler, who Wells, at one point, describes as “hysterical” and by the time of this writing, was only beginning to make his very real impression on the real shape of things to come.There isn’t really an overall plot as such, however, there is the odd vignette, such as in Book IV 2.
The book is a history of the world from WWI through the end of the 21st century.
His hoped-for solution to his day's troubles was to re-write humanity by means of a culturally monolithic dictatorship of technically-adept Platonic Guardians, after yet more evil events furthered social disintegration--a supposed pre-requisite to rebuilding.
I dislike Mr Well's opposition to diversity, his assumption that change must be wrought through catastrophe and the coercion of an elite, and the notion of a human tabula rasa.The early part of the book is true history.
The author’s tendentiousness grates less partly due to the remove of events with the passage of time.
Loses a star for being dry (and boy is it dry - Wells has a lot of ideas to share, and not a minute to waste making it entertaining), but this is HUGE on ideas.
Living in an age of rising far-right nationalism and UK isolationism, it's incendiary to read Wells' writing on the wastefulness of hatred and the need to abandon national borders in favour of human unity.
Pie-in-the-sky fantasy or a blueprint for humanity's salvation, this deserves to be read, and is as relevant now in 2018 as it ever has been.
Description: "When a diplomat dies in the 1930s, he leaves behind a book of 'dream visions' he has been experiencing, detailing events that will occur on Earth for the next 200 years. This fictional account of the future (similar to Last and First Men by Olaf Stapledon) proved prescient in many ways, as Wells predicts events such as World War II, the rise of chemical warfare, and climate change."
Well, it ranged from “Wow, this is really interesting” to “Do I really have to read this thing?” throughout.It’s Wells’ prediction of the future from the year 1933 to 2106, and tells an interesting story about what futurists in the 1933s made of a worse and better world.
It’s also an interesting thought-experiment as to what makes a civilisation work and crumble.
The subject matter constantly interested me.
Wells’ style of writing, less so.
He decided to write this a retrospective history book, written by a phantom author from 2106.
Suffice it say, this was a interesting book, though at points very droll.
There were certainly some interesting insights into the 1940s, as well as the general progressioon of society in our own time (if with very widely different happenings inbetween).
However, this was less a prediction of the future as a warning of what could happen under capitalism and a social commentary of changing times.
It was interesting to read different views of capitalism and socialism than my own, as well as to hear arguments for social control.
It certainly wasn't a quick read, but it was well worth the effort to understand this 'text book of the future'.
This story is one of mind boggling possibilities and shows an insite to how the world was seen by H G Wells in his insight to the future. To some degree he has already been vindicated with some of the things he foresaw. This story although written many nyears ago is till worthy of a read and one to compare with the modern writers who write about the future.
It is 1929. A grand old man of the League of Nations Secretariat is afflicted with a recurring nightmare: every morning he is stranded between wakefulness and sleep reading a history of the next 86 years narrated by someone who read that Stapledon fellow's future history but felt it didn't spend enough time talking about how right HG Wells is about everything.
The Shape of Things to Come: Or, The Big (Faux) Textbook First and foremost: that was such a slog to get through. Come on, H.G., give me a little fun. Maybe a joke here or there? This speculative fiction read more like a textbook that your college professor assigned to you in preparation for a final. I felt like I was studying and for a class that doesn't even exist. And, most of this book is just predictions of a future that hasn't come to pass. He did get some things right, but mostly he was
The Shape of Things to Come: Or, The Big (Faux) Textbook
This speculative fiction read more like a textbook that your college professor assigned to you in preparation for a final.
He did get some things right, but mostly he was incorrect.Besides this being super long and super boring in parts, a lot of interesting points are made that especially ring true today.
I don't want to get political, but a lot of H.G.'s points about Hitler sound like a certain President today.
Now, take out your #2 pencils and prepare for a pop quiz because I know everyone read this textbook very thoroughly!
Inspired by the 1936 movie I looked forward to reading this formore insights on the great plagues, wars and catastrophes ofthe future as well as the great hopes of rebuilding, howeverI found it pretty dry and had to work at getting through it all.
This was hard going and took me six weeks to read. I've made extensive notes. The psudo-academic style caused me the most difficulty. A narrative is certainly easier.
The vision ends in the 22nd century, and apparently people are happy with their new life.Having lived through the horrors of the World War, Wells clearly shows his disgust with business as usual in the post war period, that resulted in the Depression.
A few characters emerge and there is a bit of drama, but all told this is written like a history book and a rather dry one at that.
Wells incorporates a lot of contemporary writing into the book, which seamlessly blends with the made-up literature of the future.
In fact, the plot is merely a frame story that interjects so sporadically that its mostly distracting from the political point in question.H.G. Wells is a fantastic historian, and if his commentary on recent events of World War I and the roaring twenties is insightful, his prediction of the players, causes, and timing of World War II is incredible.
He didn’t get every detail correct, but it begs the question of whether Wells was an extraordinarily astute student of current events, or if a large population of the time could have made the same predictions.


Not a very convincing monologue for the world stateI always thought one of the most interesting authors of the early 20th century. His insights to the burgeoning British middle class were illuminating in Tono Bungay and Ann Veronica. I am afraid that this book does not quite match the brilliance of his earlier output. It is repetitive in language and thought with little insight to the danger for the corruption of the single world state.
A man leaves behind a series of writings based upon his dreams / visions of the future.This is a really odd book and even though some of the writing was captivating I struggled with the mishmash of ideas / concepts / opinions.
A highly fanciful, very interesting description of 'future history', this book purportedly describes events in world history from 1933 up to 2106. An eminent diplomat, Dr. Philip Raven, manages to write down dream vision s he has received of a history textbook published in 2106. Religion is suppressed, World War II still breaks out, a world dictatorship is formed, and the nation state dies out. Not remembered; scheduled for rereading. There is an interesting movie with Raymond Massey in 1936, the screenplay for which Wells worked on.
In fact, while I found the first six chapters of book one a complete bore replete with dense, heavy reading and constant references to how awesome the Modern State ideology is - without expanding on it, I note - chapter seven, on the topic of World War I, became suddenly very engaging and intriguing.
I'm not one to let an author's opinions, whether they're told through characters or not, to impact my view of the work as a whole; however, Wells's rather deplorable view on Modern State thinking is pervasive throughout the text, and I can't help but have a distaste for the whole novel as a result.'The Shape of Things to Come' is not a good book.
A dystopian/utopian novel, written as a history book from the year 2106 and detailing the rise of a single world government.
The name dropping, references, argument and counter-arguments, every facet of this makes it seem real.BUT i do have a few gripes, one, its really long, a bit longer than it needed to be in my opinion although i do think the slowness of things added to the feeling of authenticity.Secondly i never understood how the organization's mentioned actually worked, in the details.
I'm used to reading old books and good old-fashioned blatant (women should stay in the kitchen) sexism i can easily deal with, this was a little different.
It's interesting to note that he gets the date of the start of WW2 pretty much spot on and to read what he thought was the best solution for humanity's problems.
It's really coloured by the First World War; HG Wells (and others) were convinced that mankind was on a one way slide into armageddon.
Confronted with the horrors of scientific warfare, Wells thought that humans en mass were not capable of controlling their destiny and needed a small cast of Platonic Guardians or Samurai to protect them from themselves.
It's a dense, wordy text one plough's through rather than reads.
An interesting document of its era but only worth reading for that.
*lol*The book is written in a very scientific language.
I would not recommend it to anyone who doesn't like it when things sound like an essay written by a professor.
It describes how humanity almost destroys itself before it pulls itself together and gets a world government that solves its problems one by one.I think parts of it were very interesting to read, however, the overwhelming majority was just tedious.
I wasn't curious as to what would happen next, I simply read on and on and on and wanted it to be over already.
It really sounds like a scientific essay, which is why I just couldn't bring myself to like it.
As it is history from 1914-2106 we are now about half way through this text book of the future.
There was much that I struggled to understand and there was much that bored me, but there are passages of brilliance throughout, and Wells' attempt is at least laudable.The title is probably the best part of the book, a phrase that has entered the language.
In 1936 a film "Things to come" was released, a film that Wells scripted.
Wells sketches up a future Utopia in fine detail.
The recent years (the book was written in the thirties) have left Wells immensely disappointed in mankind.
And he (correctly) senses that history is about to repeat itself.
Interestingly, many of Wells' criticisms are just as valid today.
This Utopia is ruled by science, esthetics and curiosity.
War is abolished, as is the professional politician, the money-grabbing corporations and the numbing effects of organized religion.A different sort of alternate history, but interesting both as fiction and as polemic criticism of the failure of international efforts for peace in the early 20th century.
I suspect I may get thrown out of the Sci-Fi club for this one but I didn't enjoy the book.
My motivation for reading the book was due to an assignment in the English class I am taking right now.
So I actually stuck with it much longer than I would have if I had been reading for pleasure.
I think the actual premise of the book is interesting.
I just felt the book was very preachy, imperialistic and redundant.
This book will be stored in my Kindle archive and I can say I read most of it but that is about as good as it gets.
A quite interesting look into what at the time was a potential dystopian future facing the world and how that could then by transformed into HG Well's utopia.
Interesting conclusions but dear me is it dry.
Supposed to be a history textbook from the future and it reads just like reading a history text book, the 1st half of it is mostly about various economic conferences and political movements of the 1st 2 decades of the 20th century, gets a bit more interesting after that.
If you want to read about HG Well's utopian vision though you're much better of with something like "Men Like Gods." much shorter and much more readable.
