https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149062.Tales_of_Ten_Worlds
Most people who are not "sci-fi" readers only know Clarke by 2001 - A Space Odyssey but he is so much more than that.I enjoyed every story but the following stand out:Summertime on Icarus - Clarke's description of the intense sunrise on the asteroid our protagonist is stuck on is so vivid I felt like I was sweating as I read it.Who's There - Because I like cats and it is a clever, very short story with a feel good ending.Hate - This is a particularly chilling tale of how hatred can make a man do something that he will regret the rest of his life.
Una interesante antología de uno de los grandes de la Ciencia Ficción. Quince relatos en distintos tonos y registros, con una buena dosis de ironía y la fértil imaginación de uno de esos autores que tan bien supieron "inventar" el futuro y que hoy reconocemos como uno de los imprescindibles del género. "Antes del Edén", "Hagase la luz" y el breve pero un tanto lacrimógeno "Perra estrella" fueron los que más disfruté. Entretenido.
How did I live this long without reading Clark? He's the king of the killer final sentence.
Hoy, por suerte, también puedo decir que si uno quiere adentrarse en este mundo, puede empezar sin dudas por Relatos de diez mundos.No es una sola historia, sino varias, contadas de la manera mas simple que la redacción lo permite (y ese es uno de los grandes logros de Clarke, a mi entender).
Amenos, suaves, como una guía hacia la comprensión del genero en si mismo.Obviamente, la ciencia ficción es mas que Clarke contando historias, pero acercarse a ella por medio de libros como este, es sin duda un viaje espectacular que se disfruta a cada momento.El punto negativo del libro se lo lleva UN LIGERO CASO DE INSOLACIÓN, un relato sobre un país ficticio de américa latina, donde la política en si misma se decide por medio de un partido de fútbol.
Uvijek je pravi gušt uzeti u ruke starog genijalca.Većinu ovih priča pomalo je nagrizao zub vremena,no Clarkeova magija još je uvijek itekako prisutna.I Remember Babylon-☆☆☆☆Summertime on Icarus-☆☆☆☆Out of the Cradle-☆☆☆☆Hate-☆☆☆Who's There-☆☆☆☆Into the Comet-☆☆☆☆☆An Ape...-☆☆☆Saturn Rising-☆☆☆☆Let There be Light-☆☆☆☆Death and the Senator-☆☆☆☆☆Trouble with Time-☆☆☆Before Eden-☆☆☆☆☆A Slight Case of Sunstroke-☆☆☆Dog Star-☆☆☆☆☆The Road to the Sea-☆☆☆☆
Arthur C. Clarke'ın her zamanki mühendis keskinliğiyle yazılmış gayet güzel öyküler. En son öyküyü biraz uzun ve sıkıcı bulduğumu söylemem lazım, ama diğer öyküler keyifle okunuyor.
This is a collection of short stories from the master storyteller himself. The stories are varied and different and of course with the sparkle of brilliance that you can expect from Arthur C. Clarke. A good read for anyone and a must read for sifi fans.
Prose style: 3Plot: 1Depth of characters: 1Originality: 3Entertaining: 2Emotional Reaction: 1Intellectual Stimulation: 2I didn't like this, ugh.
Some pretty cool short stories about space and sci-fi stuff.
It offers through every single tale a good insight into human nature, not as deep as Ray Bradbury's Martian Chronicles, which is indeed a little more fantastic and it cares less about rigorous scientific facts. But in this book it is notorious Clarke's scientific background while he is taking care of details to make as realistic as posible every passage. Been published even before first moon landing it is very interesting to find out that time perspective for the next years regarding Space Conquest
Reading this collection of sci-fi stories was like traveling back in time. You can see the types of questions sci-fi writers were struggling with compared to contemporary ones. Reading this book was like a history lesson as it was written in the 60s when the cold war was at it's height. There were a few stories deal with Russia and Sputnik. Would I recommend these stories? Not really, unless you were interested in the history of sci-fi and really liked this author.
15 well-crafted and well-written stories by one of the masters of Science Fiction, "Tales of Ten Worlds" is a pleasure to read. These are some of Arthur C. Clarke's best short stories. Highlights include ""I Remember Babylon", "An Ape About the House", "Death and the the Senator", "Trouble With Time" and the novella, "The Road to the Sea".
Amazing short stories with a twist at the end. This makes the book incredibly easy to read, and sort of makes you miss it when you are done. This is a book that you want to read over and over again.
My first taste of hard science fiction. Of course after that I was hooked for life! I think I was about 11 when I bought it. That was around 1973. I didn't know anything about Arthur C. Clarke, The title intrigued me (wow, 10 worlds for 75 cents!) and I liked the cover. It showed space suited figures floating in a pink void. What happened to all that great cover art? Anyway, even though many of the short stories were too mature for me, I still got a foothold into the genre and I'm still a fan 40 years later.
Mi primer libro de Arthur C. Clarke. Me ha dejado buenas sensaciones en general, con relatos muy interesantes y otros intrascendentes.Por norma, el interés sube cuanto más páginas tiene la historia, excepción hecha del larguísimo y algo aburrido último relato.Similar en su escritura a Asimov (sin llegar al nivel del maestro), tiene buenas ideas y una mente racional con las que plasmarlas. Recomendable para aficcionados a la ciencia ficción.
The opening story "I remember Babylon" blew my mind! I totally thought it was real. Arthur C. Clarke refers to himself by his own name as he narrates this story about meeting a man at a party who predicts the rise of television as propaganda and mid-control. Rife with historical references, this story seems more fact than fiction. Arthur C. Clarke is a storyteller of the highest order, not to mention a visionary.
Enkelte historier skilte seg positivt ut (den om den kunstneriske apen og den om liv på Venus f.eks.) men flere var småkjedelige og tok forever(seelv om det bare var korte historier, og de egentlig ikke var vanskelige å lese) å komme seg gjennom. Anbefales derfor bare for de som er spesielt interessert i klassisk sci-fi.
Relatos cortos bastante escuetos y bastante lights. No hay ningún relato que te marque y en todos se me ha quedado la sensación de "¿Y ya está?". Son cuentecillos para matar el tiempo entre esperas en determinados momentos pero ya esta. Me parece a mi que el relato corto no es para nada lo mejor de Clarke
Even though we're not experiencing all the space travel that was referenced in the book for this time period, AC rarely disappoints. Some of those stories were thrilling, page turners! Thank goodness they haven't been ruined by making them into movies.
Arthur C. Clarke's fifteen fantastic shorty story. The master of science fiction, and it will fascinate any earthbound explorer of the orbit. :)
many of the stories are very dated, but what is important is the lessons contained in them
Some of Clarke's work was done at the short story length.
Great collection of sci-fi. "Hate", The one about Venusian life, and the one about a cute ol' dawg were my favorites though I can't be bothered to look up the other two names at the moment.
I love Arthur C. Clarke's short stories.
Short stories not my favourite. Yet this science fiction has won me over.A master in his class.
"The Road to the Sea"; one of the best short stories I have read.
this is a very interesting book
An excellent anthology of his short stories. Not his best anthology -- those would be The Wind from the Sun, and The Sentinel, respectively. But this is still vintage Clarke.
Kittens in space are terrifying.
Another great collection of short stories from the late great Arthur C. Clarke
