https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6466909-new-moon
I liked it because if showed that making a movie is not just all fun and games, you have to be serious and get stuff done, but you defintly play around too :) New Moon was a great movie and it made me change from team Edward to team Jacob.
AMAZING COVER!!

No no no no no. Plz 🙏
I love the pictures of Bellas' birthday party, when Edward leaves her, and the beach scenes.
I think the pictures are better in this second book.
The pictures of Edward and Bella are more romantic.
One thing that is better about this book, more seems to happen in the sequel and so the author had more to write about.
The first one was pretty much just one story line, but this second one is more like two.
I don't know why, but just like me having a hard time reading these books, I'm having a hard time writing this post.
and Edward doesnt want that to happen so he had to kill Victory boyfriend before he could even get any closer to Bella and her family as he threaten to do so.
The collins had to work with the wolves which bella's bestfriend Jake is one of the wolves and it was kind of difficult to manage to do so because Edward doesnt get alone with Jake because jake tries to make moves on Bella repeadly after knowing that she haves a boyfriend.
But ontop of that the vampires never got along with none of the wolves because vampires have to kill humans in order to stay alive very much differ from what the wolves had to do.
This is a collection that shows what went into the production of the movie "New Moon." From actors to scenery - this book shows some of the more complex aspects of film making.Students might fins this book entertaining because it focuses not only on a popular movie, but the movie making process in general.
Students might like creating their own make believe movie and writing up all the processes that would go into the movie.One of the few informative texts that I had prior to this class and one that I still enjoy.
The images are clear and crisp and I like finding out some more information that goes on behind the scenes of film making.
I have to say that after reading this book and scrutinizing every GORGEOUS photo, I am -- dare I say -- even more excited for the movie than I was before!
And if you know me, you know how excited I've been.
It appears that New Moon is going to be so much better than Twilight, in so many ways.
(Remember how awful Rosalie's hair was in Twilight??
Well, it's a wig this time around!
Plus, the "sparkle in the sunlight" effect sounds like it's gonna rock this time around!) CAN'T WAIT to see the book come to life later this week!
Lots of good pictures, but they can't compare with the living, breathing people I watched on screen yesterday. The movie gave tantalizing glimpses of the sense of family felt by both the Cullens and the werewolf pack. Pictures just don't recreate those heartwarming scenes.A detailed account of the filming would have been enjoyable, but Vaz and Summit Entertainment have withheld the most interesting stuff. No on-location vignettes, mostly generalities. I gave it 3 stars because even the generalities are interesting to this Twilight fan.
I enjoyed this book as I did the Twilight Movie Companion. It is facinating all the work that goes into making a movie. I love learning about the attention to details required to make a good movie. I also enjoyed reading some of the thoughts of the cast and crew. There are lots of great photographs in the book.
U need this book!I member seeing it at our schools book fair and thinking " Holy ****, I NEED this book!" and then I got it. I read it all within one hour. after I thought " Wow, every Twilight Saga fan will want this!"
I loved all five of the books in the series
Heard it was good have to try it for myself sometime:-)
Por que el libro no se puede leer simegusta Pero yo no soy inglis
Remember the calmer days, when I fell in love with The Twilight Saga.
I love this book
I really love how this book the is designed
To Bella’s major distress, Edward still refuses to turn her into a vampire.When the Cullens (Edward’s vampire family) throw a birthday party for Bella at their house, clumsy Bella gets a paper cut while unwrapping one of her presents, and spills a little blood.
But it turns out she can’t "see" werewolves, so she believed Bella committed suicide.Edward hears the false news of Bella’s death and he decides to go to Italy to provoke the Volturi, and ancient vampire family, to take his life too.
Looking for insight into how and why “New Moon” felt different from “Twilight,” but still kept itself relatively close to the material it adapted, if the answer is yes than you need to check out this book.
It gives great little details that will enhance your appreciation for he films itself and astound you with how movie magic is made.
First off, I learned that every Twilight movie would have a different director to accentuate certain aspects of each novel.
These little details make me appreciate these films even more and I can honestly say that they will do the same for you.
Another great book that depicts not only how The Twilight Saga New Moon was made but how much effort it takes to create a movie, as well.
The movie crew removed the fence and painted the barn from green to red.
I never would have known that if I didn’t read this book.
Overall, a fantastic, quick, easy read, I would definitely recommend this to anyone (especially people who want to go into the film industry), is a favorite of mine, a reread, and I can’t wait to read the next book in this movie companion series.
It’s always wonderful to learn small tidbits that you previously didn’t know!
For example I had no idea that they didn’t film in Oregon as the did in Twilight, but in Vancouver.
Meaning all the key locations from the first movie such as Bella’s house, the Cullens house and the school all had to be recreated.One thing I really don’t understand is some of the arbitrary changes they made such as the way they made Edward’s skin sparkle and costuming.
I definitely missed Hardwicke’s personal touches that we saw in the first movie.
Ultimately, this is a great read for any Twilight fan!
I'm amazed! Not about the story plot obviously but about the production! I'm not a filmmaker, but there are so many details in this movie! We kind of knew that, but to read how these were made is crazy! This book is more about technicalities in this film that anything else, and I found that interesting, I'll watch movies paying more attention to the physical details.
after reading the book and watching The Twilight movie. I was able to focus on the story very well. Jacob, Edward and Bella are unique characters for The New Moon novel. it's a great story and an amazing writer when you can imagine the story even in your sleep. ❤
Proti prvnímu dílu o něco slabší.Bylo tu mnoho fotografií s popisky a pro mě poměrně nezáživných popisů přesunů štábu a hledání vhodných lokací. Největší část pochopitelně věnována scénám ve "Volteře". Chyběly mi zajímavosti či rozhovory, které jsem tolik oceňovala na předchozím díle.
I love this because I was always curious on how they made the movie. Now since I read this I feel like I understand everything a lot better now. So I insist to read this if you're curious on how they made the movies.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Look Mark let us read this story
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Loved it
