https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20697435-the-book-of-strange-new-things
Enter Peter Leigh, a former homeless junkie thief turned born-again Christian minister selected by the USIC Corporation to be sent to Oasis and preach from the Bible, which the Oasans refer to as The Book of Strange New Things.
Things go well for Peter – the Oasans are receptive and he enjoys his time on the planet; things for badly for Bea as the world around her falls apart – China invades the Middle East and ends up controlling their oil supply, global supermarket chains go bankrupt, freak weather decimates countries, wars erupt, governments topple, it’s the complete and total collapse of Western civilisation.
An adult sci fi novel with an intriguing premise: Mankind has reached its first extraterrestrial world, Oasis, and the giant corporation USIC is working hard to build a colony there while economic and climatic conditions on earth continue to deteriorate.
They've had a limited introduction to the Christian faith, but after their first human pastor mysteriously goes missing, they refuse to provide food to the human settlers until a new preacher arrives to replace him.
And why is USIC censoring news and correspondence between Earth and Oasis?
And when you find out the answers to some of the novel's central mysteries .
Faber lets his protagonist have strengths and flaws, more than that, Peter has a consistent philosophy of religion and morality.
The flaws are perhaps more obvious to the reader than to Peter himself (especially when it comes to his relationship with his wife) but that's part of what makes the book interesting.
It is Peter's character that is this way, not any statement the author is making pro or con.This is also a great example of how good literary fiction can combine a variety of genres.
Alienation“We’re the aliens here.”This book can easily be (mis)taken as generic sci-fi, exploring the impact of colonialism on the existing inhabitants, as well as the newcomers: in the near future, a Christian minister leaves his beloved wife and travels through hyperspace to a human colony on another planet, where his role is to evangelise to alien beings.That is the medium, but it’s not the message.
Rather than a message, it’s an open-minded, open-ended exploration of separation, dislocation, translation, miscommunication, God, faith, truth, addiction, madness, scars, healing (“the technique of Jesus”), loss, and what it means to be human.
Of course, everybody on earth had the power to reshape reality. It was one of the things Peter and Beatrice talked about a lot. The challenge of getting people to grasp that life was only as grim and confining as you perceived it to be. The challenge of getting people to see that all the immutable facts of existence were not so immutable after all.  Sustaining a relationship over a long distance presents serious challenges. I tried it once or twice in my twenties. Of course that was back befor
One might think that is probably not such a big deal to Peter, as he did not possess a television and was not interested in reading magazines or newspapers, but the loss of connection to Bea is a big deal, particularly as existential concerns are a clear and present issue for both.
Peter had been recruited by the mysterious USIC corporation (we never learn what the letters stand for) to minister to the locals on a planet named Oasis.
Much of the story is on how Peter goes about establishing his church on Oasis, how he gets to know and feel for the locals, and what he learns about the physical environment in which he is living.
The Book of New Strange Things appears for the first 200 pages to be like an SF story written by an earnest 19 year old in 1959 – because the premise casually brushes aside a thousand problems.We can grant the first major plot points here – that a few decades into the future someone has invented a way of travelling to other solar systems, that a habitable planet has been found, with breathable air, and that a faceless American corporation with undisclosed motives is exploiting this new world, and that the world is already inhabited by the first alien race humans have come across.
Best known for “The Crimson Petal and the White” (2002), which took place in the Victorian era, Faber now launches us into the future, when interplanetary travel is almost routine.For all its galactic wonders, “The Book of Strange New Things” is a subtle, meditative novel that winds familiar space-alien tropes around terrestrial reflections on faith and devotion.
These gentle souls can’t get enough stories about “the technique of Jesus.” They insist Peter read more from the Bible, which they call “the book of strange new things.” (The gold-edged pages of this novel are a clever sanctifying touch by the publisher.)What could be more seductive for a minister than to be embraced by a community of such loving congregants?
The Book of Strange New Things, the 2014 science fiction novel by Michel Faber, is one of those books that sealed me in a barrel, rolled me down a hill, off a cliff, into rapids and over a waterfall.
I can see how this novel might not feature enough derring-do or interstellar titillation, depending on the reader's mood, but The Book of Strange New Things captivated me for several reasons:1) Faber doesn't fall in love with his technological, cultural or political musings of the future.
The fact that he’s catching an interstellar shuttle is treated almost as a commonplace event and within a few pages he’s arrived on the distant planet of Oasis but because of the easy, almost matter of fact way in which it’s written we’re able to take this colossal test on our ability to suspend disbelief in our stride with barely a raised eyebrow.
Peter has been sent to Oasis to spread the word of the gospel to the aliens who inhabit the planet.
Peter and his wife communicate with each other via interstellar email and these missives form a large part of the novel.
Ugh...I hated this. I absolutely loved Under the Skin, but this was a huge disappointment. It was endlessly tedious, the protagonist was not very likable and the plot itself just never really came together. It's amazing because the reviews on GR have been largely glowing, but this was just a huge bust. The Book of Strange New Things? More like The (Endless) Book of Tedious Plot and Lame Characters.
If I were the author of The Book of Strange New Things, my Twitter pitch might reading something like this: Ex-druggie pastor leaves pregnant wife on apocalyptic Earth to save souls on rainy Planet Oasis.
That’s pretty damn good, if I do say so myself (and there, I’m done with the spoilers).So, we already know that just because a book is set in space, with, ahem, “aliens” (protagonist Peter Leigh reminds us that of course it is we, the visitors, who are the aliens) and space ships and weird plant forms, doesn’t mean it isn't serious literary fiction.
It's an interesting premise and a unique blend of sci-fi and literary fiction, but I don't think it really delivers on what it has to offer.Firstly, we don't get a lot of explanation for much of the novel's set-up.
And unlike most novels, this one had a more interesting middle portion, whereas the beginning and end really petered out (no pun intended).
But in the end it really fizzles to a dull conclusion, and wasn't able to save me (pun intended) from giving this book more than 2 stars.
(I got a copy through NetGalley, in exchange for an honest review.)At first I thought I'd rate this book higher: its beginning as well as premise were quite catchy, and I was fairly intrigued at what Peter, the main character, found on planet Oasis, as well as to what would happen with Beatrice, how they'd keep in contact, whether their relationship would hold, and so on.There are very strong moments in it, especially when contrasting Peter's privileged experience to Bea's day-to-day life.
As if the author had become bored with his story, and decided to let it hang there.Clearly there were beautiful moments in this novel, that can make you feel like you're really "with the characters", but the other problems kept distracting me so much that this read ended up being more tedious than pleasant.
Unfortunately, his wife must stay behind on earth during the mission, but they both feel the opportunity is worth the sacrifice.Peter and Bea were prepared for the physical distance between them but didn’t count on the emotional estrangement.
(Or maybe it’s just the world as flawed as it has always been, less appealing now that there’s an alternative.) Peter can’t or won’t relate to an Earth that seems God-forsaken, while Bea’s faith is tested.
This topic and setting are about as different as can be, yet Faber manages to create a story just as compelling, showing that great writing transcends genre.A copy of this book for review was provided by Random House/NetGalley.
The Book of Strange New Things is the story of Peter, a missionary who is hired by the mysterious company USIC, and is sent to a distant planet to serve both the human and alien population there.
The longer Peter is on the alien planet, the more disconnected he feels from the reality of his wife and home.
thanks to a previous missionary, the aliens have heard of the Christian Bible and call it the Book of Strange New Things.
One of my favorite works of science fiction is The Martian Chronicles by Ray Bradbury, and in parts, Faber's book reminded me of Bradbury's stories.
Their only contact will be messages sent through a device called "The Shoot." As Peter is accepted and makes headway with the aliens, things rapidly are falling apart on Earth.
Bea's messages become a cry for help." Will he stay or will he go?I totally bought into this strange new world, came to know the people and their strange ways.
He did it in a manner that stayed true to the novel, while offering a modicum of hope.The funny thing is with everything going on here with the weather, sickness, antibiotics not working and the general mess we have created on this planet, this novel may not be s far fetched as one would think.ARC from publisher.
I was curious, not so much about the critical opinion of the book, which I assumed was high based on the cover pull quotes and the marketing campaign, but because of the hard to miss racism and hints of homophobia.
It's difficult to square the book I read with the reviews.
The best sections of the book involve Peter, the main character, separated from his wife, and the slow unraveling of their marriage.
Peter's life on Oasis is needlessly mysterious, with all of the human characters acting like they have a secret when they really don't.
Much like Emma Staub's The Vacationers, Strange New Things has become a critical darling despite the fact that it is deadly dull and wouldn't have received such rapturous reviews had it not been written by Faber.(My personal theory is that most literary critics live in deathly fear of not being part of the "cool kids club" who understand books us mere mortals are too simple to grasp.
The premise of Peter Leigh's missionary trip to the planet Oasis to spread the Gospel to its alien inhabitants sounded beyond ridiculous.
This novel had many opportunities to crash and burn: 500 pages of dubious space travel, of obliquely hinted-at apocalyptic destruction, the seeming ridiculousness of taking a race of another world (with a language almost entirely comprised of non-sibilant consonants) and indoctrinating its inhabitants with another world's religion.
I can see how this novel has had a very divisive response from GR readers; if you can buy into the premise (and though it took awhile, I finally did), you might just be similarly transported as I was.
I can't recall the last time I was so utterly transported by a book - so imaginative and completely absorbing!
Peter moves in with the native population, the Oasans, to bring them the word of Jesus.
To his surprise, the Oasans are already converted and hungry for more from the "Book of Strange New Things." As Peter becomes more and more absorbed by his mission and the unique circumstances of his alien ministry, his relationship with Beatrice becomes strained and begins to unravel.
Beatrice is overwhelmed and, feeling abandoned and unsupported by Peter, begins to question her faith.
What made me hesitate was the premise: This was a sic-fi book set on another planet, where the main character, Peter, was a pastor preaching for aliens?
It doesn't read like a sci-fi that is hardly understandable and imaginable, even though it does take place on another planet.
I couldn't ignore the underlying frustrated feeling I get when it comes to religion that Peter, the main character, was trying too hard to converse people who didn't want to be conversed, but all in all I did enjoy the religious aspects for what they were.
It is a very this-worldly story, blending a believable dystopian vision of Earth, commentary on cultural and religious imperialism, and a poignant portrait of a marriage under impossible strain.Suburban London vicar Peter Leigh won the appointment of a lifetime: he will travel light years away to minister to the natives of Oasis, a planet colonized by a shady American corporation.
(The novel was written over the course of Faber’s wife’s final illness; she died in 2014.
Knowing this adds an extra layer of ache to a tender scenario.)2014 was a big year for dystopian novels – J by Howard Jacobson, Station Eleven by Emily St. John Mandel, 
Peter, the main character, former drug addict & alcoholic turned Christian pastor, is sent to space by a dubious corporation called USIC to preach to the mysterious Oasans about the Bible, while leaving his wife, Bea, behind on Earth.
is the kind of book you wholeheartedly love, but I think it’s remarkable how Faber manages to make something alien, like the Oasans, seem more familiar than the USIC crew members, and how something familiar, like the stories of the Bible, sounds so very strange when limited by language.
Michel Faber's new novel, due to be released on October 28, is itself a book of strange new things.
The Book of Strange New Things is not any of that.Peter is a recovering alcoholic and drug user who became a minister after he met and married Beatrice, who nursed him through his final overdose.
The Book of Strange New Things is the Oasans' name for the Bible.
Michel Faber handles the religion aspect well, also the tension in Peter and Bea's marriage, and the beginnings on Earth of an apocalyptic stew of climate change, end of oil, and economic breakdown.
Strange, subtle, and clever. Life on an uncanny planet.
This book took me a while to get through, I ended up reading it really slowly because I didn't want it to end.
It was so completely engrossing.
I wanted to savour every page ,while trying to fend off my desire to devour this novel.The cover is exquisite and admittedly what drew me to this book, however it was the impeccable writing and beautiful imagery that kept me reading.
I loved the world of Oasis, and this may sound clichéd but I honestly felt like I was right there when I was reading.
I was completely transported.
The Hook - I have to admit the initial appeal of The Book of Strange New Things were comparisons to The Sparrow by Mary Doria Russell, an all-time favorite of mine.
The Sinker – A basic definition of sinker A weight of lead or other metals designed to sink a hooked bait or lure.The Book of Strange New Things caught me, Hook, Line and Sinker!Having read The Crimson Petal and the White I knew I was in for something out of the ordinary with this book.
The Book of Strange New Things seems one of those books that you will either love or hate.
I enjoyed seeing Peter and Bea (apparently pronounced Bee-ah not Bee) together working as a husband wife team.
I don't know how to respond when you tell me these things....Peter you idiot.He tries later to retract these statements saying "Please tell me anything you want" but it's too late and the damage is done.I think the real genius in this novel is the way Faber highlights the many differences in the way men and women communicate.
If you resort to telling us you can't relate and you don't want to hear about it--- You Have Failed.This book is heavy on Christianity, and it's depiction and meaning applied to the universe as a whole, rather than just Earth, really raises some interesting questions.
Rating: 3.5* of fiveOne of the books I read while in the psych ward in 2014, this came back to my mind after I watched Amazon's pilot for a series based on parts of the stonking great wodge of philosophical musings that is the book.OASIS, the series, could be very good.
It's already got my vote over the novel as we're leaving out a big time-drag that I didn't feel made the book better by starting with Peter on Oasis after a spoilery bad thing has already occurred.
I like Faber's writing in general, this book is no exception, but it is overlong for the story it ends up telling.
The plot of The Book of Strange New Things centers on Peter Leigh, a man of faith who embarks on a mission to evangelize a group of aliens he calls the Oasans.
I struggle to write about what else happens in The Book of Strange New Things, because even though the plot does develop and novel events do occur, every detail felt so non-urgent and inessential that I ended up finishing the book just for the sake of finishing it.The lack of character development also weakened this book's appeal.
