https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19318.The_Tomten
I recommend The Tomten for children interested in The Little People (and it would be the perfect bedtime story for a winter's evening, peaceful, relaxing, hopeful).Astrid Lindgren adapted the text of The Tomten from Viktor Ryberg's 1881 poem Tomten (the gnome).
And I also wish I were fluent in Swedish and could thus read and compare this here English language translation to Astrid Lindgren's original Swedish text (The Tomten is in every way a wonderful, a lovely book, a sweet and to and for me prefect marriage of text and image, but I am always curious how translated texts, especially ones which are poetic or based on poetry, compare and hold up to the originals, and I do find it kind of strange and actually even a bit annoying that the translator is not even mentioned by name).
Adults can’t see him, but children can, and yet he only checks on them at night when they are fast asleep.Some people read this book or one like it at Christmas time in Sweden, and some people put out porridge with butter on it on Christmas Eve to feed the Tomten because that is all he requires for his protection of the farm.TOMTEN RICE PORRIDGE 1 ½ c.
Reduce the heat to low, stirring the rice until boiling is reduced to a simmer.5.
Once boiling has reduced to a simmer, cover the pot and allow it to cook, without stirring, for 45 minutes.
(In case my husband reads this review, I would like to add that I was able to find MOST of her work at the library).I want to read everything Ms. Lindgren wrote, whether it's for adults, children or animals.
I love Astrid Lindgren and Kitty Crowther so much that I ended up buying this little picturebook in French and, painfully, translating it.
It was only after reading about other work by Kitty that I found someone has already done it...Stupidity aside, this is such a lovely little story about a little troll (the Scandinavian like their trolls who, I suppose are similar to Brownies ) whose job it is, in the winter, to ensure that the people and livestock of a remote household are safe and well and feel comforted.
Kitty was granted the privilege of illustrating the story after it was unearthed in a cupboard belonging to the Lindgren estate (it was penned in the 60s).
4.5 STARSA beautiful, gentle (adapted from the wonderful poem by Rydberg) story lovingly illustrated about the Tomten (gnome) who keeps watch over a family's small, lonely farm and encourages the animals in the winter while they dream of spring.
I adored how the Tomten was friends with all the animals, and I think young children would love to imagine a tomten outside their house and keeping a kind, watchful eye on things while they sleep.
I thought the illustrations were marvelous; gentle, beautiful, just the right blend of realism and magic.
First, let me say how thrilled I was to discover that Astrid Lindgren adapted this book.
Second, let me share that I have always admired gnomes and I have a special gnome that sits on my favorite bookshelf to protect my favorite books…I am such a dork :).The Tomten is Lindgren’s adaption of a classic poem written by Rydberg (For the record, I prefer Rydberg's verses).
The repetition offers structure to the story and is most likely a reflection of the poem’s ties to classic folklore.
The illustrations complimented the story nicely but did not correspond well with my own mental imagery of the poem.
We recently reread Hedgie's Surprise by Jan Brett, so we already had an idea about what a Tomten was. This book is similar, but depicts the Tomten in a slightly less mischievious manner. The narrative is repetitive and soothing, and the story is perfect for bedtime reading. The illustrations are also softly muted, showing the quiet of night. We really enjoyed reading this story together. This story was selected as one of the books for the April 2012 - Mystical/Magical Creatures reads at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
This book is a family favorite to read at Christmas time.
My grandmother grew up hearing stories about Norwegian nissen (very similar to tomten) from her grandmother so this story has a special place in all our hearts.
Astrid Lindgren's soft, sweet words translate the poem beautifully.
It's easy for small children to understand.
We got so into the idea of leaving rice porridge for the Tomten, we leave rice pudding for JulNissen at Christmas (along side Santa's cookies and milk).
The illustrations are a little dark but they convey winter very well.
I haven't tried reading this to the nieces and nephews yet.
I remember hearing the story of the tomten when I grew up from my Grandpa who grew up in Sweden and this folklore was common.
I never knew about the poem or that Astrid Lindgren wrote a children's picture book based on the poem.
So when I was an adult, introducing my fiancé to our Swedish traditions, I found The Tomten.I was so pleased to find this story.
It was a sweet tale about the tomten's night activities, silently providing help and comfort on the farm where he lives.
Warm, soft, moonlight scenes painted with great detail elevate the story.
Me ha gustado mucho, es un cuento precioso e ideal para el invierno, pero le doy un cuatro porque me gusta más la versión en inglés, tanto por los dibujos como por el texto. En esta traducción pierde un poco y se lia con cosas como que dice que el duende cuida de todas las casas y no es así, cuida de esa granja en particular, es el típico duende casero: tomten, brownie o kobold, o lo que J. K. Rowling llamaría elfo doméstico. Pero en general está bien y es muy bonito.
Quite a lovely book.
A favorite picture book from my childhood. The story of a little Swedish "tomten" (elf type creature) and his life on the farm. I read the book out loud to my boys tonight and while I was basking in the warm glow of a familiar, beloved story from my childhood, they were creeped out that little men might be walking around the house while they were sleeping looking in windows. Matter of fact, one of my boys came and crawled into my bed about 20 minutes ago. Guess that story backfired a little...
Que bonito, me ha gustado aun más que Pippi, Astrid Lindgren tiene libros infantiles preciosos, este es muy adecuado para esta época, nos habla de como un "tomten", algo así como un gnomo domestico, que vive en una granja, sale por la noche y ayuda a los animales. El tomten es una antigua leyenda escandinava de origen pagano.
The lower illustration is the same scene in this book versus an older version of The Tomten.
Great bed time picture book about a troll that speaks tomten to children and animals, reassuring and encouraging them while the rest of the world is sleeping. I would use this book at nap time.
The Tomten by Astrid Lindgren, illustrated by Harald Wiberg, and adapted from a poem by Viktor Rydberg, is based on a mythical creature who watches over farmsteads and protects the inhabitants.Wiberg's illustrations have a peaceful, almost dream-like quality.
They were first published in a children's magazine with the original poem by Viktor Rydberg." My favorite images include the homestead, Tomten outside, with the horse, by the sheep, by Caro, by the babies, in the loftand thinking of Spring.
For ages 4 to 7, fairy-tales-fantasy, winter, folklore-scandinavia, bedtime-bathtime, translations, magical-creatures, scandinavian, tomten, nature, farms, and fans of Astrid Lindgren, Harald Wiberg, & Viktor Rydberg.
This book is interesting, but a little freaky. It's about a creature called a Tomten that creeps around a farm while the people who live there are sleeping. I can totally see Stephen King rewriting this book as a horror novel for adults.I googled "Tomten" and discovered that it is a mythical creature of Swedish folklore. This book makes a lot of more sense if you know this background information.
Such a magical little book. I first read this to my daughter when she was 3 and--5 years later--we still read it a couple times every winter. It’s a very simple tale about a benevolent gnome-like Scandinavian farm sprite. The illustrations are enchanting, gorgeous, pure winter!
A traditional scandanavian folk tale best read around Christmas time for maximum enjoyment and relevance as it is set in winter.The Tomten is a little troll also affectionately known as a gnome.
I read this book to my year 2 class under the visualiser.
The illustrations in the book support the story really well.I would recommend this as a book to read with the class.
I used it as a stimulus for an Art Club where the children had to use different materials to create their own winter scene.
Great for nursery children to those in year 4.
Used to be my favorite book in winter when I was a child (:
This is my new favorite bedtime story. The kids like it too. A true classic type of children's book that doesn't talk down or preach, just tells a gentle story with a quiet rhythm.
A book that I remember from my youth and I just rediscovered! I always wished that my home had a Tomten. Okay, I still wish this!
I woke up this morning thinking of the quiet soothing cadences of this book.
Read this book to little M's class last year before having a tomte hunt and a pepparkakor snack. Super fun morning.
A delightful wintertime story about the little gnome who goes around the farmhouse at night, checking on everything and making it safe.
Sweet little book about the tomten that goes around a farm in the middle of the night and talks to all the animals.
Another of my childhood favorites. A really beautiful and dreamy book.
The Tomten in this book lives in a hayloft of an isolated farm in the middle of a forest; it is a winter night, and the house and its sheds are covered in a thick layer of snow.
Each night, the Tomten visits the farm animals in their sheds to make sure they are are OK; since the Tomten & the animals can communicate with each other in a silent language they each understand he comforts each animal with the reassurance that spring will soon arrive.
I've loved this book ever since I first received it as a Christmas present from my grandma when I was just four years old.
I hadn't read The Tomten in many, many years, even though it's always brought out and displayed with the rest of my Christmas book collection around this time of year.
The illustrations and the words go together perfectly, and fully transport the reader to the world of the book.
As an aspiring illustrator and writer, this is a book I will turn to again and again to remind myself of what I love to see in books and the impressions I hope to make with mine.
A super cute winter story! The Tomten is a creature who comes out at night, and he goes all over the farm reminding the animals of spring and summer. He tells them that they are okay during the winter but soon it will be warm and nice again. He talks to them in his Tomten language. The illustrations are quite captivating and add so much depth to the story.
