https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1425766.It_s_a_Busy_Busy_World

When I was little, Busy Busy World was my second favorite Richard Scarry work of all time, after What Do People Do All Day Present-day adult readers may be taken aback by the abundance of ethnic stereotypes. Forty years ago very few people would have objected. It's kind of sad, because this book was my first introduction to landmarks like the Blarney Stone and canals of Venice—and I remember I learned about all these sights of the world from this book.My copy was printed in 1972 and the binding has been worn to the last molecule.
Totally non-P.C., but my favorite children's book of all time. If only the world was like this. Totally hilarious and insane.
This is currently Hazel's favorite book. We have read it over and over again. Hazel's mom likes that the stories are short and we can adapt, on the fly, how many will be read.
All right, I want to be clear here: I know this book has some seriously dubious content in places. The vast majority of the stories are set in Europe, & every single entry contains some kind of national stereotype behavior. It's definitely flawed, & even saying "Oh, remember when it was written" isn't good enough; not really. But I adored this book & all of the silly shenanigans the animals in the stories get up to as a young child. Five stars for sheer nostalgia.
We love everything Richard Scarry! This one is no exception. Both my 5 & 2 year olds would go for it every day at reading time.
Since I have been able to read, I don't know how many times I've read this.
I know it by mind.
And there's no such a drawing of a monument that I like more than those - San Pietro, Notre-Dame...Da quando so leggere, ho perso il conto di quante volte ho letto questo libro!
Cambio spesso i libri nella mia libreria, per metterci quelli che sto leggendo attualmente, ma non posso togliere questo.
Ogni personaggio di un Paese diverso è come se fosse mio amico da sempre.E non ho ancora trovato dei disegni di città che mi piacciano di più di questi - San Pietro, Notre-Dame...
Any many ways this is a charming book full of funny little tales about butchers and house painters and fishermen from (almost) all over the world. But upon second glance, it's riddled with gender, ethnic and racial stereotypes which were clearly not evident to the writers in 1965. Like Egyptian men wear the fez and ride camels, while Dutchmen wear clogs and ride bicycles everywhere to damn up dykes. Seriously. And worst of all, the only working women are washerwomen and nurses. Just spiffy.
There are 33 short (2 page or so) stories in here, so we had to do this in installments instead of wholesale before nap/bedtime. Scarry has so much going on on each page that make his books so wonderful. For each story, there is a character of a different nationality. Some vignettes seem maybe a little stereotypical of a culture and the names are ridiculous, but I think that's part of the charm. My son loved tracing the lines from each character to his country on the endpages also.
Storie, disegni e ricordi della mia infanzia che ora rivivono nelle risate dei miei bambini. La mucca che mangia il cappello di Sven Svenson e il professor Scavo con la sua mummia egiziana sono in assoluto i due racconti che ci fanno divertire di più. La lettura si conclude però sempre con il piccolo canguro Billibongo e il suo biberon di latte. Poi, tutti a nanna!
if i ever make the mistake of breeding my brood shall read these books. this one i like as it shows all these different countries. denmark was a haunted house, brazil had something to do with a giant ass snake and an airplane. but they all have lowly worm and friends and that is what really matters, and mr fixit, and, well i dunno i really dug these books as a kid. stop laughing
This is perhaps my almost four-year-old grandson's favorite book at our house. We usually read several stories from it whenever he spends the night. The added bonus is that he really is absorbing bits of geography and culture with the stories.
5* art5* storiesIf I have to read "Pierre the Paris Policeman" one more time I am going to lose my baguettes. And it's all because Pierre has a whistle that goes "Brrreeeeeet!"Love reading this book to Squirt - so many short and funny stories - so many things to look at.
An endlessly entertaining bedtime book when I was five. One of the best!
Fun book, I have always loved these little stories. People today put too much emphasis in the wrong place. These are stories that kids will like, nothing else, no hidden meaning, no politics.
My kids just loving reading this with me. Full of all kinds of details to notice. Hoping for some grandchildren one day...
I love reading about animals that drive cars, fly planes, and work for a living. Animals have been oppressed too long, it's good to see them out and about. Go animals!
My favourite children's book. Lovely characters, lots of colourful pages depicting a busy, busy world :)
We love this book. So many politically incorrect things but I don’t care.
Scarry, R. (2015). Richard Scarry's busy, busy world. New York: Golden Books.
Ei oikein kolmevuotiaalle uppoa matkailukirja, mutta ehkä myöhemmin.
I think I had more fun reading this book than my little kid had. All the humour, puns, funny things that my child not yet understand make bedtime story less like a chore.
“It's a Busy, Busy World” by Richard Scarry Amazing book. 33 unique adventure stories.- - -
Richard Scarry's books are always a delight and this one won't disappoint.
Each page spread (with a few exceptions) is its own comical little story showcasing a different nationality and/or city.
It's a big book but it'd be easy to read a couple stories or two and pick it up again later.
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
These stories informed my world. This is why I want to go to Venice: A pig family in a gondola eating watermelon! And Lowly freaking Worm!!
All 3 of my boys have loved this book. Many years ago, we kept the library copy for eons. We finally found a used copy of our own to buy, and it's starting to fall apart. We love using using voices and accents as we read the stories. We love all the detail in Richard Scarry's illustrations. I know this book is probably considered politically incorrect, full of stereotypes and sexist role constraints, but we love it anyway.
The one childhood book I've kept with me since leaving home 20 years ago! The stories take place at different locals around the world. Even as a young child I'd been to more places in the world than most, so I think that is one reason that I connected with this book. And the stories are really fun too!
love this book, wonderful illustrations, great stories with the different animals and their families. I felt that this book can really keep the children's attention and focus. Have the class create their own town or world with their own characters. Have each child create a character with a story behind it.
This was my favorite book growing up...I would read it over and over again. A lot of the images are dated now, but as a child, this book made me interested in other countries, other cultures and a world outside of the US. It honestly influenced my life, my decision to learn other languages, to live in other countries and to travel the world.
This has got to be one of top 10 favorite children's books ever. We had it as kids, but it is a hard one to find these days. If anyone should come across one at a thrift store, please pick it up for me. I'm on the lookout for it!
