https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/82436.Looking_for_Alibrandi
it is somewhat unusual compared to others of its kind, and it is pretty, but you know that when it hatches it is going to let loose some magnificent beast beyond human reckoning.marchetta is a magnificent dragon.and this book is good, and you can see the beginnings of what she will become, but it is definitely a first novel, before she understood her own power.i reluctantly love josie alibrandi (although we are not friends, so i must call her josephine) she is a complete teenager: she picks silly fights with her mother and grandmother and acts like a little brat, she has a completely mystifying relationship with a boy whose behavior is equally littered with teenage sulks and irrational outbursts, she succumbs to peer pressure and complicates her own life, she gets in fights and acts out in wildly erratic and melodramatic ways.
“Things don’t turn out the way you want them to. And sometimes, when they don’t, they can turn out just a little bit better.” If anyone would ask me what makes up the best YA contemporary novel, I’d simply say, “Read Looking for Alibrandi." It makes me appreciate that I’ve read this just now because had I read it years ago, the rest of these YA contemporaries would have probably been a little letdown. To tell you honestly, nothing about the plot is too complex to make it special. It’s basically
But how the story was put across through the use of these amazing elements of diversity, culture, humor, social impact, authenticity and even romance were what made the story so current (even though it’s actually already a classic novel), so adorable, so touching, so real and so hilarious (I can’t stop laughing at the 90s fad: shoulder-pads, teased hair, Mills & Boons-LMAO!)I am used to Ms. Marchetta’s beautiful, sophisticated and usual flowery writing but of the three books of her I’ve read, her simple, heartfelt writing style here is what has completely won me over.
Love Josie and her big mouth.Update 3/24/2012I feel like Josie and Jacob grow up to be Francesca's parents.
Original 2010 reviewEnjoyed Melina Marchetta's debut novel very much, even though it was not as strong and heartbreaking as her Printz-winning Jellicoe Road.Looking for Alibrandi is a simple coming-of-age story (oh, how I hate this expression!).
how important is to her her ethnic identity?I can't really pinpoint anything I didn't like about this book.
I liked her complex love-hate relationship with her mother and grandmother.
However the book was written almost 20 years ago, maybe it is different now?All in all, an interesting, quick and light read.
As much as I couldn’t connect with Josie’s Italian culture, I totally understood the Catholic school and community situation.
I suppose that is what I truly enjoyed most about the book, though—Josie was living everyday life and getting up to no good with her friends, seeing a boy her family might disapprove of, and feuding with a girl at school but all the while she was thinking of her cultural identity, what she would do in the future, how people’s individual life choices affect where their paths go, and about the difference between sadness and pure despair.
5 "Cloaked by Reminiscence" Stars.  Again.  The seventeen Janis Ian sang about where one learns the truth. But what she failed to mention is hat you keep learning truths after seventeen, and I want to keep on learning truths till I die.  Oh yes, again. Melina Marchetta, I'm telling you, people are going to think I write repetitive reviews for your books because I'm in a severe dearth of adjectives now.Amazing ?Lovely ?Beautiful ?I ended up in the thesaurus looking for synonyms but well, I could
Melina Marchetta, I'm telling you, people are going to think I write repetitive reviews for your books because I'm in a severe dearth of adjectives now.Amazing ?Lovely ?Beautiful ?I ended up in the thesaurus looking for synonyms but well, I couldn't get befitting ones.So I think I'll just stick to my idiosyncratic analogy/allegory musing stuff.Have you ever wandered empty school hallways ?It's like you almost don't recognize it as the same one you walk every day.There is a sense of allness in the crass cacophony, which you'd never think twice about if not for it's aching absence.
Okay, all joking aside, I know it's Marchetta and she speaks to me as few authors do, but still, imagine my surprise that as an ethnic Korean born and raised in the US, Josie Alibrandi is a character I related to on such a personal level.
I don't think you can sum up the immigrant experience in a few words, but this is pretty damn close.I know I'm making it sound like an issue book because I was so impressed with Marchetta's portrayal of it, but it's not -- or it's not just that.
Josie actually reminded me of another classic character.
I thoroughly appreciated my first experience with Melina Marchetta.The first thing that struck me about Looking for Alibrandi was the main character, 17-year-old Josie Alibrandi’s voice.
Readers will still find they are able to connect to the themes highlighted in Looking for Alibrandi.As much as this is a superb coming of age tale of a young Australian girl with strong Italian roots, Looking for Alibrandi is a novel that delves into the complex nature of family relationships, head-on.
For international readers, Marchetta really showcases the city and seems to capture the real Sydney.All in all, I am so very grateful for the experience of reading Looking for Alibrandi.
I just knew that my complete love for Melina Marchetta was clouded only by her 3rd person POV.
I'm relieved I got that out of my system.I loved this book.
But possibly, I loved this book even more than the others.
My grand-aunt, his future wife, was 3 when her whole family left the teeny tiny village of Caltrano, Italy, got on another boat and set off for the same country.
And I reluctantly remind him that our family is actually more likely to have descended from the barbarians than from Romans.

So let me try this one more time.It's the weakest Marchetta novel I've read to date.
And whereas her books are so character driven, I felt no connection to any character this time around (apart perhaps a little to John.) I did find how Josie dealt with not feeling accepted and trying to find herself interesting, though.
Sera who actually seems more like a enemy than a mate and spends a whole lot of time insulting our MC.
I don't think Josie meeting her father for the first time was really explored as well as it should have been.Let's talk love interests.
“You know something, Jacob, I'd hate to be as smart as John. I mean he was really, really smart, and to be that smart means you know all the answers, and when you know all the answers there's no room for dreaming.”  To me, there are three different kinds of books, one where the book is simply unsatisfactory. Second where it is only appropriate for its certain era. And third where I just knew this book has made a lasting impression on me.Looking for Alibrandi falls to the third category. From th
Even though this book is set in 90's the feminist message was very much relevant and integrated to the plot and the characters's arc.• Sex positive.
Once again Marchetta's characters discuss that you can be sex positive, whether you dont like sex, you like sex or you don't give a fuck about sex.
As expected from Marchetta, you'll find how family is very necessary to this story as well.I'm certain I forgot a lot of things I genuinely adore about this book, but anyhow this is an incredible debut and just as powerful as Marchetta's following works.
Don’t get me wrong, compared to a lot of other debuts, this one is still excellent, but on the Melina-Marchetta scale it is probably my least favourite (This sounds bad here, but except Finnikin, all her other novels are among my absolute all-time favourites).
The relationship between Josie and Michael, her getting to know her father after he’d been absent for seventeen years was probably the most fun part of the story – even though I didn’t expect that at all.
I would even recommend starting with this book and working your way up – it probably makes for the better reading experience.
I don’t know why I took such a prolonged time to start reading Melina Marchetta novels, but I certainly regret that I didn’t start sooner.
An absolutely fantastic and unforgettable character.Looking for Alibrandi is a coming of age novel.
Along with that, Josie has begun to grow feelings towards Jacob Coote, someone who her Nonna would definitely not approve of with her olden world beliefs.
I also loved the father-daughter dynamic.
Josie and her father's relationship put a smile to my face.At the end of the day, review after review, you won’t know how brilliantly crafted Looking for Alibrandi unless you read it yourself.
She’s an out-of-place wog on scholarship who has a few good friends amid the snobs.The Getting of Wisdom is a story told by Laura, describing her early years at a private school, her background, and her pals in the late 1800s.
She’s an impoverished girl with patched clothes who doesn’t fit in and has trouble making friends with the private school girls.Behind the Sun is a novel told about four 19th century teen-aged, misfits - convict girls who form a loyal alliance in prison and are transported to NSW for various offences.
We’d never be able to cope with the pressures our mothers and grandmothers went through.But I wonder about that seventeen-year-old girl back then.
In spite of my reservations I actually really enjoyed reading this book, although I couldn't help feeling that I probably should have read it in my teens.
I loved Josephine and I enjoyed her spunk and thought she was very funny and clever.
Although initially I thought that this might just be a teen book I realised that it was so much more with very serious themes as well as quite a bit of humour.
I've actually reserved the movie now just to see the story played out so that probably says something about the lasting effect of the book.
0.5/5 stars I read this story back in high school and it is quite possibly the worst book I have ever read.
No I didn't hate it purely because I was made to in high school, I actually enjoyed a lot of novels we had to read.
The only enjoyable character was John and it really hurt me when he committed suicide because he made the book a lot better.
They caught up after school and he was saying how stressed he was but Josie couldn't think about anything but herself!
“I’ll run one day. Run for my life. To be free and think for myself. Not as an Australian and not as an Italian and not as an in-between. I’ll run to be emancipated. If my society will let me.” Initial Final Page Thoughts.I honestly think the world will stop turning the day I read a MM book I do not like. High Points.Strong females. Josie. Nuns. Religion. Family. The past. Jacob. The future. FBA. Identity. Culture. Fast food first jobs. Stories. Catching me off guard with the sadness (which I d
I know this book was more about the females in Josie’s life but I really loved their relationship and I believe I would have enjoyed this book a lot more if there had just been a few more prickly road trip scenes thrown in.Heroine.I got shouted at because I get referring to Josephine as Jo (it’s just easier, OK?
Crowded House has Australian members too.There's a battle ahead,Many battles are lost,But you'll never see the end of the road while you're travelling with meI like to think of this song as a love song to the Josie, her mother and her grandmother.
As Josephine struggles to find a mean between her relationship with her father, her blooming romance with Jacob, and come to an understanding between the two most influential women in her life - her mother and her grandmother - her narration sucks you into her world and keeps you there.
Jacob and Jose's relationship is one of my favorite out of all the Marchetta books and I know I'll find myself re-reading this novel just for them.
’’There’s no denying that Melina Marchetta is a literary goddess, but Looking for Alibrandi just isn’t that good. - Every Marchetta fan who read her debut novel after being blown away by her other book(s). This book was nowhere near as amazing as the author's other works, but I didn't expect it to be either. Marchetta's writing and characterization has gotten a lot better over the years, and gone from average to stunning.Family relationships: BI really liked the relationships in the Alibrandi f
Marchetta's writing and characterization has gotten a lot better over the years, and gone from average to stunning.Family relationships: BI really liked the relationships in the Alibrandi family, especially the one between Josie and her mother.The women in Josephine's life are all stubborn, outspoken and confident.
Yet the second Josie was away from Jacob, he was the most important person in her life!Too much angst and not enough communication.Dickhead love interest: FMy least part of the book was Jacob Coote, who I wanted to throw a sandwich at.
We’re in love with our idea of her and of who we become around her.
GOD I MISS SYDNEY SO MUCH-Reread: Jan 2018[Frankie Spinelli voice] Oh my God I'm so devastated-My Twitter reading thread: HERE.Reread: June 2016I skim Marchetta all the time but this is my first proper Alibrandi reread in a while and I'm still in love with the story, with Josie and the Alibrandis, with Michael Andretti, with John Barton and Jacob Coote.
I think I gained a little more love for Jacob this time around.
Like Saving Francesca, Alibrandi looks like one story but turns out to be so much more.
Overall, Alibrandi is a great book about self-acceptance.
All through the reading of this book, I felt like the author hadn't been able to decide quite what she was writing; is this a teen's journal or is it a first-person narration book?
I liked some of the concepts, but overall it just seemed like there was a pattern of "stuff happens to Josie, Josie reacts, later Josie has a thought about it that might or might not relate to other crap in her life." There was a lot of inconsistency with regards to style--for instance, the Italian grandmother who doesn't speak smooth English sometimes has her accent highlighted with alternate spelling and sometimes it's just dropped and written normally.
There are so many notions and remarks about politics, cultural differences, general truths of life and more that fit well to describe life now when after almost a quarter of a century has passed.I'd recommend Looking for Alibrandi for everyone who has had to deal with immigration, since they would most definitely relate to Josie's story, as well as anyone who would want to learn more about the emotional turmoil and struggles of it all; of what it means to be a part of traditions and deep-rooted culture that still hums in your blood and soul, and what it means to be confused about your place and yourself when you feel like you don't belong.Beautifully, thoughtfully crafted, as always, Marchetta's ability to write the voice of a teenager in the search of oneself as well as showcasing complex, layered family dynamics and other types of relationships, this is yet another winner that's not to be missed!
Read in high school. Remember the movie - Matthew Newton?! Story of my life really. Shabby memory. My daughter has read, so I need to re-read this Aussie classic. She has a new one out, too. What am I waiting for? Too many books..
I love her character driven novels, I wish I could meet each and everyone one of them, and if I could define novel honesty fused with passion, I’d stamp a Marchetta book cover as an example.
It starts off in undefined territory where I’m not quite sure what’s going on or where Marchetta intends to lead me, but by the time I’m done with the story, I don’t want to turn the final pages and I wish I could have just a little more time with the characters that crept into my heart and took a post.Josie Alibrandi is everything I love in a MC.
I think if I had read Looking for Alibrandi first, I would have given it five stars.
I would have given this book a dozen accolades for those pages alone.I know that romance is never a central angle in a Marchetta book, but I still felt disappointed by Josephine and Jacob's relationship.
(view spoiler)[I'm more conflicted about John's suicide.
For all future readers of Marchetta, I would strongly advise starting with Alibrandi, and then moving on to her later books.
Nggak usah bikin ulasan, ya. Cuma mau bilang kalau setelah baca Saving Fransesca dan Looking for Alibrandi aku jadi ingin menulis lebih bagus lagi :"
Trigger warnings: suicide, depression, some seriously controlling bullshit in romantic relationships, discrimination against ethnic minorities.2/6/2017Last time I read this, I was kind of meh about it.
Gave it three stars, despite all the love I'd had for it as a teenager.
13/1/2012I LOVED this book as a teenager.
Unsurprisingly, it's pretty dated now.
But it's still an enjoyable read about a teenage girl dealing with her last year of high school, falling in love, her father coming into her life, and the discovery that her mother and grandmother are human and make mistakes.
There's a lot of layers to this book, just like all of the other Marchetta novels I've read.
This is the story of a girl dealing with all of the complexities of having two nationalities, while not really fitting in to either one.
Throw in a coming of age story with first love and all of that good stuff, and you still don't have half of what this book is about.
I think this one has a lot more humor than any other Marchetta book and I really enjoyed that about it.
I think that I even liked this one more than Saving Francesca.
I was impressed by how Melina Marchetta was able to incorporate and juxtapose the lives of 3 different Alibrandis so effortlessly: 17-year old Josie, 34-year old Christine and Josie’s Mom, and her Nonna or Grandma.
Equally, my eyes definitely shed tears when Josie and her father whom she hasn’t seen in 17 years finally come to terms with their daughter-father relationship and open their hearts and soul to welcome each other into their lives.
There were so many things about this book that brought me to tears and gave me hiccups from too much laughing, and thoughtful from reminiscing similar experiences by Josie and by John.
Beautiful!
