https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/437518.Queen_Victoria
This is not in Lytton Strachey's crafty and mordant biography but he would have seen this and smirked his head off.
When Queen Victoria got married, the joke going round the gentlemen's clubs of Mayfair was about the honeymoon train.
It would be setting out from Waterloo, passing through Virginia Water and Bushey until arriving at Maidenhead, leaving Staines behind.(For those unfamiliar with the geography of the Home Counties, these are all small towns in the south of England.)When the British throne is occupied by a female person, there is always a strange story behind it, because, obviously, that should never happen.
For there to be a Queen, a lot of men have to have died.
How Victoria got to be Queen was really most convoluted and unlikely but she did.
Here, Strachey merely sketches--perhaps purposely--some quite interesting moments, especially the strange relationship between the straight-laced Queen and her servant, the burly, impolite whisky drinker John Brown who became her favourite at Balmoral Castle.
Another reason that Victoria had such an interest in John Brown was owing to the fact that he was psychic and was supposedly able to contact the Prince Consort during seances.
If this is true, then it would explain a great deal--including the remarkable liberties the queen allowed in the conduct of John Brown.
As was the profusion of rings and (of course) the giant gold poodle handbag.I also found it extremely interesting how well Strachey wrote about Albert's death, especially as he wrote it before authors could use the Queen's diaries and a great deal of other sources to expand their knowledge.
In fact, as he wrote 'Queen Victoria' in 1921, Princess Beatrice would still have been alive and still editing said diaries!I would recommend this book to someone who is interested in Victoria, as it gives an amusing and concise history of her life without being too long or complicated.
Su lectura me ha parecido apasionante, aunque para mi gusto sobran referencias personales, y quizás falte una mayor contextualización de la época y los numerosos avatares políticos, militares y científicos por los que Inglaterra llegó a ser el Imperio más poderoso de la época.
En definitiva, una época de cambios sin precedentes que sentaron las bases de nuestra civilización actual.El terreno emotivo y personal de Victoria está muy bien descrito.
En fín, una personalidad bastante incoherente para las funciones que le vinieron atribuidas, pero que supo sacar lo mejor de sí misma cuando la situación así lo requería.
I had expected this free e-book to be a bit on the dry side. Although it was bit boring at times, most of it was fascinating and quite engaging. More than anything, the love between Victoria and Albert touched my heart.
Giles Lytton Strachey was an early 20th century writer and biographer who developed a reputation for writing biographies that dealt with individuals as people, rather than the events they were associated with.
Many public domain books can be slow to read, with language that is sometimes archaic when compared to contemporary writing.
I also enjoyed Strachey's turn of phrase and his ability to create such effective word-pictures of this fascinating monarch and her life.
If you have any interest in history or curiosity about British monarchs I think you will enjoy this book.
Strachey's biography certainly contains all the bones of Victoria's life; biographers writing after Strachey added meat, particularly the later years of Victoria's life and reign.
I wonder if Strachey's biography set the narrative tone, created the Victoria story (so to speak) that future biographers all follow?
I also assumed that one of the reasons the latter part of the biography was slimmer than the first half was that some of the players, including three of Victoria's children, were alive when this was published.
Maybe publishing the biography of a beloved queen, when people still remembered her fondly (or otherwise) was revolutionary in the 1920s; it's certainly common place now.

The years after Albert’s death are little known according to the author, so it was not well detailed.
It definitely made me want to read more about Victoria and Albert’s relationship because in the movies is too vanilla and investigating you can see that there were more tough times and hard choices, and that they were like a fusion of power more than two different individuals.
I would really like to dig deeper there, I’m actually checking out books about it.I would recommend readers to see a movie or know a little of the history before reading the book because it can get confusing otherwise.
I wanted to know about her family life the most but there isn't much of that in this book.
There is a lot of speculation about how Albert felt about his situation but again I don't know how much to believe since most of it is observation.
This book goes a lot into the political changes Victoria went through and how stressful to her it was.
She could be very dependent on those prime ministers she liked and practically went to pieces when they lost their elections.
I don't think I'll read this book again since it is pretty dry but I'm glad I did.
No se si estoy leyendo la vida de Victoria o la de Alberto...
Parece que lo hubiera redactado ayer...Victoria: vida larga y fructifera: poblaste de herederos a las casas reinantes europeos casando a tus innumerables hijos pero no soñaste con que los primos hermanos iban a enfrentarse en la primera guerra.
Se me reveló un personaje completamente distinto a la idea que yo tenía de Victoria y su tiempo.
No hay ninguna data de los archivos a los que pudo acceder, lo cual es una pena.Pésima la calidad de las reproducciones de El Ateneo.
El personaje y su descendencia se lo merecen.
I don't understand why you would chose to write a biography of a person you clearly cannot stand.
Strachey is a beautiful prose writer but cannot conceal his contempt for Victoria and chooses instead to write about everyone around her--prime ministers, advisers, male relatives, and Prince Albert, who Strachey has a massive man-crush on.
In this characterization Victoria comes across, no more or less, than a silly, meek, stupid woman who has to be steered by all the men around her, except when she is childishly stubborn and refusing to listen to their Correct and Good counsel.
The three stars are only for "liking it" not for its inherent merit.
Read like a slightly gossipy novel, which was nice, kept the flow and readability going.
Written by the interesting Strachey, founding member of the Bloomsbury Group (a group of writers which included Virginia Woolf, E.M. Forster and others).
Daughter is "being" Queen Victoria for a school project, audience to ask biographical questions.
Needed to have some questions to ask, thus this reading, which isn't my usual fare.
I know that this early biography has been somewhat set aside as an antique and incomplete picture of the woman, it was still fun to read and informative.
4 stars for the first 80 pages - 3 stars for the rest.
Strachey's gossipy prurience makes him a superb narrator of the court intrigue, the royal dissipation, the machinations of succession that begin Victoria's story.
But things lagged after the marriage: I guess the sprightliest of historians can't do much with Albert's flood of memoranda, Victoria's flood of children.
I was hoping that Prince Edward, trailing an entourage of mistresses, might take the stage for a while, but he's dealt with in just a short allusion.
Still, Strachey's presentation of her widowhood and pack-rat senility is very moving.
I happened to see the movie The Young Victoria and my curiosity grew.
I had little idea about the life of this monarch except that some of my favorite literature was written during her reign.
I also wondered if the events in the movie had been exaggerated.
What a surprise to find that most of the movie was actual events in this book.
I loved that so many of the influences on both Victoria and Albert were people who encouraged them to be moral and careful leaders, using their power for good.
A truly enjoyable history even if I didn't understand all the political topics of their day.
Written in 1921, this biography of Queen Victoria is well-researched and annotated. The prose is educated and quite British, which makes for interesting reading today. I enjoyed the wording, the adjectives, and the subtle allusions. The focus of this biography is definitely the incredible bond Victoria had with Albert. Theirs is a story of duty, love and committment. If you are up for a 'dated', charming and well-written bio of the great Queen Victoria, please add this to your list. You will not regret it.
Half way through the reading of this tome (original 1921 hardcover)I stopped and noted how amazing the writing of this author was... poetic, flowing and beautiful... so nice. An absolutely wonderful book! I see now what all the fuss about Strachey's writing was... an easy, breezy, flowing narrative of an amazing life, of an amazing human, who was actually very, very human indeed. Beautifully done.
In this award-winning biography of Queen Victoria, the author places before us the image of a stern, but benevolent monarch who at the same time possessed all the emotions of a woman who had an innate respect and capacity for business as well.People who are familiar only with despotic kings in the fables and real life would feel amazed at the working of constitutional monarchies like that of England, where the lineages that vied for the crown were often living in straitened circumstances till the moment they ascended the throne.
Entre los montones de libros que busque sobre reyes o reinas y entre las reinas estaba como parada super obligatoria la reina Victoria.En esta biografia en especial no solo nos muestra la vida de Victoria si no tambien a las personas mas influyentes en la vida de la misma, desde su madre e intitutriz hasta su esposo Alberto y sus primeros ministros.Personalmente habia entrado a este libro con cierto entusiamos ya que con anterioridad ya habia visto un documental sobre la vida de esta monarca.
от повествованието за кралица виктория, дала името на цяла една епоха от литън срейчи, най любопитен и интересен ми беше самият автор.
един от основателите на прочитият кръг "блумсбъри", член на тайно дружество в кеймбриджкия университет...иначе, не научих нищо по- различно от онова, което днес предлагат популярни сериали или исторически поредици продуцирани от различни телевизионни канали.
дребничка, жизнерадостна, упорита, рано станала кралица в могъщо кралство, бързо омъжена и завъртяна във водовъртежа на вечното майчинство, силно повлияна от съпруга си, чиято загуба трудно преодолява...
няколко щрихи засягащи ми като българин, но обясними в светлината на стремежът да се ограничат имперските амбиции на русия.
книгата в светлината на днешното ни познание за виктория е малко тромава и леко скучна.
This biography of the life and times of Queen Victoria was excellent.
Strachey goes into great detail in his analyses of the queen and her advisors, various prime ministers, and other government officials, and of course Albert.
He made the politics of the day really come to life and gave an amazing portrait of Lord Palmerston as Minister of Foreign Affairs.
I had never heard of this man before, but after reading Strachey's novel I am not likely to forget him soon.
The version I read was a free download for my kindle.
This book is a flowing narrative of a long and interesting life.I think this is the first biography I've read, and I think I've chosen well.
Maybe that's why I loved this book, because it's not about the "when", it's about the "why and how".It's also great that Strachey is not "in love" with Victoria, he stays impartial and focuses on every aspect of the queen's life.I don't know how accurate it is, I've only found this biography in Hungarian (I was looking for one about Victoria), that I could get my hands on in a short time.Loved it, recommending it.

Being a Tudors fan, I knew very little about Queen Victoria so this was all new to me.
I expected it to be a stuffy and difficult read but, in fact, the style was quite light and not too difficult at all.
The tone was fairly respectful but as it was written in the 1920s there would still be a lot of her supporters around and so it would have been difficult for Strachey to be indiscreet.
In fact, as he says, little was known about what happened during the years when she withdrew from the public so there is not much he could say.
This book was a lot of fun to read.
Never having lived in a monarchy, I found all the palace rules and traditions to be highly interesting.
It was fascinating to read of Victoria's guarded childhood, her growth through being a queen at age 18 to a young wife, to a mother of nine children, to losing Prince Albert, the love of her life, at an early age, and learning the inside stories of her reign, being longer than any other British monarch, and longer than any other female monarch in the world.
I listened to this as a free downloaded audio-book from librivox.org
I admit, when I picked it up I thought it was a "new" book, meaning within the last 10 years, and so felt a little sheepish when I read the publisher's page and discovered that, no, it's almost a century old...
the writing style is a little dated, but actually not as much as I would expect.
The tone is engaging, and a lot of imagination is used in illustrating the queen's life.
The author creates a vivid picture of the queen's life and personality, and those of her family and the political figures she was closely involved with.
This book should be renamed "The Terribly Interesting and Important Men Around Boring Old Queen Victoria" because it focuses so little on the queen herself, and so much on her masculine advisers and keepers.
It's still a worthwhile read, however, thanks to the author's Victorian tone and delivery.
I love when a biography presents as much information in its narration as it does in its actual observation, and Strachey's crinoline and table-skirt style pull the reader tightly into the era.
"Queen Victoria" is history in high-necked haberdashery, political and foreign commentary, and a surprisingly tender and enduring love story, all in one.
traditional overview with classic writingAs a history, this isn't what we look for now. More is known about Victoria, and better histories exist. But the writing is worth the challenge of reading past the period assumptions, and even the flaws in the digitization of the text itself.This version isn't perfect, as several sections have issues with formatting and font. But all of the text is readable, and as the book itself is short, it's not as frustrating as it might otherwise be.
Although it makes for an interesting reading, this particular biography of Queen Victoria is not the best for someone who has not read anything else about her, her time, royalty in England, England Constitution.The short story of a long and interesting life, revolves around the men in the life of Queen Victoria. The kings before her time, her tutors, her ministers, her husband, her servants and for a while she is only a shadow in a book about her own life.I am sure there must be better options for someone who is interesting in the life of Queen Victoria!
Lytton Strachey shows us the inner workings of Queen Victoria's reign. The influences of her mother, her companion, her uncle--all with their own agendas--and how they shaped her early life and her personality. A detailed look at her total mental and emotional surrender to her husband and consort, Prince Albert. The machinations of her Prime Ministers and the stresses they would place on her life during her long years on the throne. How her public image evolved into that of a strict and virtuous "mother" to her people, but underneath seethed a willful child with a temper.
