https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/245.Henry_Miller_on_Writing
Everything I had written before was museum stuff, and most writing is still museum stuff and that's why it doesn't catch fire, doesn't inflame the world." ---------- Henry Miller recounts the event one afternoon at a New York theater that set off an inner explosion, blasting a hole to the innermost depths of his soul so that he finally has access to the lava and fires of his authentic voice as a writer."I had to learn, as I soon did, that one must give up everything and not do anything else but write, that one must write and write and write, even if everybody in the world advises you against it, even if nobody believes in you.
In his first year in Paris "I literally died, was literally annihilated -- and resurrected as a new man." When Miller ultimately struggled at the outset after imitating other writers whom he admired, he comes to find that what he needed most desperately was his own voice to express his grief and abandonment and that is how he came to write.
If you write, then this book is must reading as it will take you years to discover first-hand by your art what Miller shares of his own lifetime of experience and his career as a novelist.
This is a book to read, to re-read, to re-read again, if you are interested in writing. I have read this book almost every day, for nearly two months, one or two pages or a few paragraphs at a time. Now I will put it away on a shelf, knowing that I will come back to it.
I wanted to enchant but not to enslave; I wanted a greater, richer life, but not at the expense of others; I wanted to free the imagination of all men at once because without the support of the whole world, without a world of imaginatively unified, the freedom of the imagination becomes a vice.from “Reflections on Writing — the Wisdom of the Heart” Knut Hamsun once said, in response to a questionnaire, that he wrote to kill time.
Writing, like life itself, is a voyage of discovery.
Think only of the book you are writing.
Cures vertigo.
I bought this book in an airport on my way to Arizona and read it in one day.
Heavy stuff with the autobiographical tone of the book and emphasis on seemingly random pieces of his life, but I loved it.
I was offended by his treatment of women, but I felt that finally someone wasn't walking on eggshells.
i was young when I read it, but I still remember quotes and have dog eared pages.
It's a book I've recommended highly, but have never been able to part with it long enough to loan it out.
Read it.
Essential for not only the writer and artist, but also the reader in all of us. In one section he refers to his own creative life as, "hurtling toward the stellar flux." Passages that are filled with a density of groundbreaking diction as well as a mystic quality that is quintessentially Henry Miller. If you like his work, want to live a creative life or breathe air and can read then read this book.
While reading the books that this collection was taken from is the best way to experience Mr. Miller, this collection is excellent for the beginner or for the Miller fan. It allows those inclined to write (who shouldn't be inclined to write!?) to find those words of advice and encouragement in one place. This book could have been twice as long, but remains short enough to catch Miller's burning intensity while catching a fire within one's self.
Though it appears a short book, this is NOT a quick read. With every turn of the page, I found myself pausing to think, re-read, make notes. The excellent insight and incredible interpretations of the everyday were not to be read, but rather digested. A favorite for sure.
It never occurred to me that with just two or three hours of steady work a day i could write the thickest book imaginable.
It was my brief that if a [person] day down to write [they] should remain glued to [their] seat for eight or ten hours at a stretch...""sometimes one makes the mistake or commits the sin, shall i say, of trying to fix the moment, trying to pin it down in words...
I never dreamed that it was an end in itself, that to experience a moment of pure bliss, of pure awareness, was the end-all be-all...
A Gift from Shannon on my fortieth birthday, purchased at The Henry Miller Library in Big Sur. Lucid and deep...
A great book for aspiring writers.
This is a collection of Miller's essays and theories on writing and being a writer.
Honest to god, I bought this book about five years ago and could not get through the first 30 pages.
I guess what I'm saying is I think you have to be ready for this book in order for it to take.
I dunno if this can make anyone a better writer or really even teach them how to write.
It can, however, instruct a nobody on the sacrifices and rituals necessary to evolve into a writer, god given talent or none.
The selections were a little uneven and not always as focused on writing as the title would have you believe, but Miller remains wonderfully Miller, a distinct and often misunderstood voice in literature.
just perfect
This was a little difficult for me to sink my teeth into.
The thing about Miller's writing that I usually enjoy is the ebb and flow of it, the descriptive passages of life punctuated by the more philosophical and metaphysical musings, which stand out like gleaming heads-up newly-minted pennies on the sidewalk to be picked up and put in your pocket for your restless fingers to play with while you're walking or waiting for the subway.
This book is a collection of all intense passages, and without that context of the descriptive life passages to ground them, they can overwhelm.
I carried a dog-eared copy of this collection of Henry Miller's writings on writing around with me for years.
I had underlined big chunks of virtually every page.
The man is eminently quotable and his prose is incredibly meaty.
My ex-girlfriend's cat peed on my first copy and I immediately went out to buy another one.
I left the second copy on the counter at a Korean grocery in Portland.
I had taken it out of my bag to make room for a 6-pack of PBR tallboys and forgot to put it back in.
I went back to retrieve it later but it was gone.
Henry MillerEstados Unidos1891-1980* "Ninguém avança pela vida em linha recta"... "O Espírito do Homem é Como um Rio que Procura o Mar"..."Parecemos estar hoje animados quase exclusivamente pelo medo. Receamos até aquilo que é bom, aquilo que é saudável, aquilo que é alegre. E o que é o herói? Antes de mais, alguém que venceu os seus medos"...
Considering that the bulk of Miller's best writing deals with the story of how he set out to become a writer, a collection of his work dealing with writing can do little wrong, in my book. There are truly few other writers who could discuss the act of writing who I'd really want to read.
I'm standing basically alone here, judging from other reviewers, but Henry Miller on Writing did very little for me. No spark for me, no engagement. Maybe my experience comes from having read many of his other works, thus meaning I've already read many of the pieces contained in this one.
A real 'whale' of a tale.
If you're an aspiring writer, this is the one to read. Miller's command of language is awe-inspiring.
Wonderful insights.
A little tough to get through near the end. Miller can be a little heavy in spots.
An excellent collection of excerpts corroborating the fact that Henry Miller will always be one of the most influential writers I'll ever read.
He is wonderful, although I sometimes had to get him used to me ;-)
Besides Stephen King's 'on writing' this is my favorite. I love Henry Miller. He's the perfect fit.
A real “whale” of a tale.
Compendiums of fragments of selected writings is not my favorite, and this one, Henry Miller on Writing wasn’t easy for me to plow through. His essays can be full of long extravagant stream of consciousness rambling in my view, but emerged within these are contained every so often gens of keen insight. I admittedly accomplished this by considerable skimming of a lot of florid repetitive text, but what I sifted out has real value. An extraordinary man and writer who is worth the wait.
Inspired.. fluid.. associative. What we love of Henry Miller
