https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/174713.The_Lessons_of_History
Of course, it’s pleasant to contemplate these individuals, which is partly why Durant’s books are so fun to read; but such exclusive concentration also produces a kind of Pollyannish attitude, where history is seen through rose-tinted glasses, and persecutions, wars, and bigotry are not given their due—and the banality of daily life is wholly sidestepped.A related consequence of the ‘Great Books’ attitude is a somewhat reactionary mindset.
In Durant, this produced a man who often cared more about whether an idea was beautiful or interesting rather than whether it was true.Fueling this tendency is another shibboleth of the ‘Great Books’ school: that simply by reading the greatest books of the ages, one could purge oneself of all provincial prejudices and look upon history as from a timeless perspective.
The moment a society depends on continuous labor to feed itself with provision for the future (as in agriculture, for example, as opposed to hunting and gathering) selection comes into play, along with its concomitant concept of private property (this patch of earth is more fertile and productive than that patch) with some men being more successful than others, and communism ceases to be an effective tool for societal survival.
و تاثیر این مسائل بر تاریخ و بالعکس پرداخته اند و در نهایت رشد و زوال و پیشرفت انسان و تمدن در گذرگاه زمان و تاریخ را واکاوی کرده اند اگر مثل من تاریخ تمدن را نخوانده اید و مطمئن هم نیستید که اصولا روزی آن اثر را خواهید خواند یا خیر شاید این کتاب، به عنوان پیش درآمد یا دست کم چکیده ای از دیدگاه های یکی از فیلسوفان و محققان بزرگ، گزینه مناسبی باشد البته برای من در حکم یک کتاب شکوهمند و فوق العاده نبود اما خب جملات و مطالب ارزشمند و تامل برانگیزی در آن مطرح شده بود که حتما و حتما ارزش یکبار خوانده شدن را خواهد داشت.
[خودم هم بعدها باید یک بار دیگر مرورش کنم] اما عنوانِ کتاب شاید جالب تر از هر مساله ای باشد : "درس های تاریخ" که همزمان موضوعی ست هم جدی و هم به گمانم شوخی!
The audio version is delightful. It enhances the original text with interviews that are relevant to each section. The intimacy between Will and Ariel is a treat. Their playful arm wrestling over ideas and concepts makes for a better interview. Sure, their world view is older...although he was a radical of his time. But even for the faults, it's a delight to linger in his mind. And an honor to be in the presence of Ariel's spirit.
By this, I don’t even mean that they were chronologically enhanced; more that they were trapped by that inflexible mindset which places tradition and an intense desire for belonging above a natural exploration of reality.The Durants were either intelligent people trying to reconcile their minds to the demands of the culture in which they were raised, or abject liars attempting to politick their way onto the bookshelves of the prosaic postwar American public.
Like anything created by mainstream Western, Judeo-Christian culture, this book seeks only to preserve the foundations upon which it was built.I also saw a great deal of reactionary sentiment against the “upstart” 1960s youth culture.
قام ويل وزوجته ارييل بتأليف هذا الكتاب بعد انتهائهم من تأليف ونشر كتاب قصة الحضارة الضخم وكأنه في رحلته عبر التاريخ يقدم دروسا مستفادة وعبر من التاريخ الذي يكرر نفسه بصورته العامة..
يعنون الفصول بعامل أو عنصر في حياة الانسان وعلاقته بالتاريخ وما قدم عبر العصور السالفة:-ألوان من الحيرة-التاريخ والأرض-البيولوجيا والتاريخ-العرق والتاريخ-الشخصية والتاريخ-الأخلاق والتاريخ-الدين والتاريخ-الاقتصاد والتاريخ-الاشتراكية والتاريخ-الحكومة والحرب-التاريخ والحرب-التطور والتحلل-هل التقدم حقيقي-وينتهي الكتاب بالهوامش..الفصل الأخير حقيقة هو ما حرضني على التفكير أكثر بين فصول الكتاب..
فالثورة ليست دائما حل ..يسمي ويل الكتاب دروس من التاريخ بينما كان يجب أن يسميه دروس من التاريخ الاوروبي والاغريقي والامريكي ..
Durants' main point is that the strong,tenacious, breeding society will win the day and that the world will only unite as one when aliens attack us.
They also say the monarchy is the most stable successful form of government and that the church is important only because it serve as a personal behavior moderator and a societal babysitter.
They make the case for it pretty well and the person who read the book before me ate it up.
But the Durants end the chapter with a short plea to treat each individual based on their merits.
A Curiosity.I liked it, not because I agreed with it, but becauseit is such a rarity and an oddity.How often are historians brave enough or rash enough to take on the job/challenge of offering "a survey of human experience"as Will and Ariel Durant say in their preface.Even if you disagree with or query their views, it makes you wonder what you yourself believe and think and whether you can justify it with facts and figures.You may not agree with much of this book, or then you may.But you will be stimulated by and alerted to everything it says because of the aims the authors have set themselves.My copy is scrawled with notes and underlinings, exclamation marks and mini-essays.
با ارفاق سه ستارهویل دورانت در این کتاب نظراتش رو صادقانه و بدون پیچیدگی در مورد مضامین مختلف بیان کرده.
اما اون چیزی که حداقل برای من در این کتاب جالب تر بود اشارات تاریخیشه.
به هر حال همینکه ذهن آدم با بعضی پرسش ها روبرو بشه خودش یه مزیتهدو فصل "سوسیالیسم و تاریخ" و "نژاد و تاریخ" برای من از نظر اطلاعات تاریخیش جالب تر بودحاشیه: مضمون « بی عدالتی والا* » ی کالون مفهوم جالبی بود کلاحاشیه ی دو: جفا است اگه همه جا صرفا بگم ویل دورانت، و از آریل حرفی نزنم.
همه ی ویل ها رو همراه آریل لحاظ کنید* Sublime Injustice

Are we humans, so-called most intelligent species of this planet, so inept at learning from our past that we go through the same pains and pleasures, events and experiences that keep staring at our face from the annals?I was seeking answers to these questions and when Amazon ‘recommended’ this book to me, I gladly accepted.
They end the book by discussing whether we have progressed by learning our lessons wisely from our past or are we running around in circles.
If you are pessimistic about human history, then past offers an abundance of excuses for that too.
دموکراسى از همه انواع حکومتها دشوارتر است، زیرا وسیعترین پراکنش تعقل را مىطلبد، و هنگامى که ما مردم خود را به حکومت مىرساندیم از یاد بردیم که خویش را عاقل سازیم. تعلیم و تربیت توسعه یافته، اما قدرت بارورى مردم ساده و عوام پیوسته مانع از گسترش تعقل شده است. یکى از کلبیون تذکر داد که «جهل را تنها به این علت که فراوانترین چیز است بر تخت منشانید»، اما دیرزمانى است که جهل بر تخت قرار ندارد، زیرا خود را در اختیار نیروهاى سازنده افکار عمومى قرار مىدهد تا بازیچه ایشان شود. شاید همان گونه که لینکلن اعتقا
دموکراسى از همه انواع حکومت‏ها دشوارتر است، زیرا وسیع‏ترین پراکنش تعقل را مى‏طلبد، و هنگامى که ما مردم خود را به حکومت مى‏رساندیم از یاد بردیم که خویش را عاقل سازیم.
ویل دورانت در هر فصل برای بیان دیدگاه خودش شاهد مثال‌هایی رو تقریبا به شکل تیتر وار از تاریخ میاره، بنابراین انتظار دیدن مطالب تاریخی مفصل از این کتاب نداشته باشید.
فهو باختصار كتاب ممتع إلى حد ما (لا يخلو من الملل والرتابة ..!!) وهو استخلاص للدروس والعِبر من رائعة ديورانت الشهيرة "قصّة الحضارة" – التي أتمنى أن أقرأها خلال السنة القادمة 2015 :)هنا سأورد بعض ما أعجبني من اقتباسات تستحق الذكر:١] إن العلم محايد.
وفي بعض الأحيان أُحِسّ أن أسلافنا في العصور الوسطى وعصر النهضة، عندما اهتمّوا بالأدب والفن والأسطورة أكثر من العلم والقوة، كانوا أحكم منّا.
This is a bizarre little audiobook with short chapters followed by longish interviews that were apparently done while walking around outside with the authors. The attitudes are quaint if not antiquated, but I guess that's another lesson of history. As pointed out in other reviews, there is much to disagree with, but the Durants made some points I found very interesting, e.g. the value of the bureaucracy/conservative system in not letting upstarts keep turning the world upside down willy-nilly. That's not the way I usually look at things and it's not racist or whatever so they get points for that.
I first heard of Will and Ariel Durant in 2004 when reading a message by Jeffrey R.
Holland, then President of Brigham Young University:No one man, however brilliant or well-informed, can come in one lifetime to such fullness of understanding as to safely judge and dismiss the customs or institutions of his society, for these are the wisdom of generations after centuries of experiment in the laboratory of history.
While I intend to read the entire series, I just purchased The Harvard Classics collection.
Prudence says I should work through that before buying another massive collection.

کتاب خیلی خوبی بود. همونطور که ویل و آریل دورانت اول کتاب گفتهان، همهٔ جلدهای تاریخ تمدنشون رو تو این کتاب کمحجم خلاصه کردهان. البته نباید انتظار داشت که کل تاریخ بشر رو تو این کتاب بخونید! نه! همونطور که از اسم کتاب هم پیداست، این کتاب بیشتر در مورد نتایج حوادث تاریخیه. کلن اطلاعات من رو بالا برد و نگرش من نسبت به خیلی مسائل رو هم تا حد زیادی تعدیل کرد. ترجمه هم به نظر ام عالیه. مخصوصن که توضیح اسمها رو هم آخر هر فصل آورده و دیگه گیج نمیشید که این شخصیت کی بوده و اینا.
کتاب خیلی خوبی بود. همون‌طور که ویل و آریل دورانت اول کتاب گفته‌ان، همهٔ جلدهای تاریخ تمدن‌شون رو تو این کتاب کم‌حجم خلاصه کرده‌ان. البته نباید انتظار داشت که کل تاریخ بشر رو تو این کتاب بخونید! نه! همون‌طور که از اسم کتاب هم پیداست، این کتاب بیش‌تر در مورد نتایج حوادث تاریخی‌ه. کلن اطلاعات من رو بالا برد و نگرش من نسبت به خیلی مسائل رو هم تا حد زیادی تعدیل کرد. ترجمه هم به نظر ام عالی‌ه. مخصوصن که توضیح اسم‌ها رو هم آخر هر فصل آورده و دیگه گیج نمی‌شید که این شخصیت کی بوده و اینا.
I agree with some of the reviews already posted: this book has a very 'bleak' view of contemporary art and its meaning, reducing it to something that middle-class wants to buy because they are impressed by auctioneers (this is from the book). I do not agree with this at all, yet some of the chapters in this book are so well written. Personally I enjoyed the last chapter the most, which questions whether progress is real. I would recommend this book but please bear in mind it's from 1968.
این کتاب دارای 146 صفحه و از 13 فصل تشکیل شده است. نویسنده سعی بر بررسی اجمالی مطالب تاریخی ومفاهیم مرتبط با آن میکند. مفاهیمی چون زمین، زیست شناسی، نژاد، سرشت آدمی، اخلاق، دین، اقتصاد ، سوسیالیسم، حکومت، جنگ که همگی با کلمه تاریخ همراه است و هر یک جداگانه با حجمی مختصر و کلی ،مطالب خواندنی را بازگو میکند .
Biology and History- Life is competition, Life is selection- Inequality is natural, and increases the more complex the civilization- See The Red Queen and others mentioned above...4.
Character and History- Society founded on nature of man - Opposition necessary to create strength and advance the human race as a whole- See Lee Kuan Yew: The Grand Master's Insights on China, the United States, and the World6.
History and War- True peace can only be established by conflict due to the competitive and selective nature of states12.
Growth and Decay- "Civilization is a social order promoting cultural creation"- History repeats itself but only in broader context- Human knowledge is immortal13.
Just a few of the sections are:History and the EarthRace and HistoryCharacter and HistoryReligion and HistoryEconomics and HistorySocialism and HistoryHistory and WarThe Durants examine these ideas (war, socialism, democracy and Communism) by calling forth an impressive array of examples and peoples, both successful and not.
This doesn’t mean that nothing is worth working for, but it does help me to remain more calm and aware of the world around me in stressful times.It educated me a little more on topics that I have less experience with, like the struggle between democracy and Communism, or between capitalism and socialism.
“Religion and History,” their analysis suggests that religion has only utilitarian value, keeping the poor from murdering the rich, and providing some hope for those who face the despair brought on by poverty or defeat.
What happened to Chapter Two (Cosmology), lesson one: “Human history is a brief spot in space, and its first lesson is modesty”?
Certainly people as brilliant as the Durants coulda shoulda done more with religion than subordinate its cause to the “hidden forces” of nature.
I started reading this book a few years ago and only made it through about the first 15 pages before shelving it for another day.I picked it up again today, and while thumbing through, a couple of passages caught my eye and I ended up finishing the book.
It turns out, much of it was really interesting.
It’s a little dry in parts, and at only 102 pages, doesn’t go into any depth.
It briefly summarizes the history of biology, race, character, morals, religion, economics, socialism, government, war, growth, decay and progress, alongside the authors’ philosophies.
4.5 stars, rounded up because it was interesting.
The premise and the introduction sounded interesting, but soon I could not take it anymore: almost every second page asserts that Whites, Teutons or Catholics are the stronger group and therefore rule in all parts of the world or will soon rule (e.g. Catholics soon dominating Protestants in America due to greater virtue). Also, contraceptives, vaccinations and public schools are of the devil because they hinder evolution / the dominance of the strongest, and countries that have too much of the afore-mentioned must be overrun or conquered by more virile countries in order to stop the slide backwards. VOMIT-INDUCING
What a fantastic book. Will presents a, for me, novel perspective on how we have yet to replace the strong moral code from religion, which may eventually backfire (or be superseded by communism). Another point, among many, that resonated strongly with me is that liberty comes from order, but with too much you may undermine the order that created it in the first place (anarchy). It's the uncanny valley of freedom, or tipping point. This booked is packed with useful observations concerning history, that are widely applicable. Definitely going to re-read this.
Short and insightful.Clearly worth multiple quick reads over time.
Heaven and utopia are buckets in a well: when one goes down the other goes up; when religion declines Communism grows.""Like other departments of biology, history remains at bottom a natural selection of the fittest individuals and groups in a struggle wherein goodness receives no favors, misfortunes abound, and the final test is the ability to sur-vive.""As long as there is poverty there will be gods.""At the other end of the scale history reports that "the men who can manage men manage the men who can manage only things, and the men who can manage money manage all." So the bankers, watching the trends in agriculture, industry, and trade, inviting and directing the flow of capital, putting our money doubly and trebly to work, controlling loans and interest and enterprise, running great risks to make great gains, rise to the top of the economic pyramid.""Normally and generally men are judged by their ability to produce-except in war, when they are ranked according to their ability to destroy.
کتاب متوسطیست. چندان عمیق و موشکافانه نیست. گاهی نگاهی فضیلتگرا، گذشتهدوست و پرحسرت جای انصاف و روشنبینی را میگیرد. فصلهای اول چندان خواندنی نیستند.خود دورانتها در مقدمه میگویند که خلاصه کردن تاریخ در صدها صفحه ممکن است کار گزاف و غیرممکنی به نظر بیاید و نتیجهی ممتازی نداشته باشد. متأسفانه در بخشهایی به خصوص فصلهای اول، کتاب دچار همین آفات میشود.در کل کتاب عمیقی نیست. دورانتها سعی میکنند به مسائل مختلف با بیطرفی نظر کنند ولی گاهی دید فضیلتگرایانه -فضیلتی که در بودن و چیستیاش هیچ وقت توافقی نیست
فصل‌های اول چندان خواندنی نیستند.خود دورانت‌ها در مقدمه می‌گویند که خلاصه کردن تاریخ در صدها صفحه ممکن است کار گزاف و غیرممکنی به نظر بیاید و نتیجه‌ی ممتازی نداشته باشد.
دورانت‌ها سعی می‌کنند به مسائل مختلف با بی‌طرفی نظر کنند ولی گاهی دید فضیلت‌گرایانه -فضیلتی که در بودن و چیستی‌اش هیچ وقت توافقی نیست و هر نسل نگرانی است که آن را از دست داده باشد-، و گذشته‌نگر، و نوستالژی‌دوست به تاریخ و گذشته در میان سطور کتاب پررنگ می‌شود.هر فصل به تاریخ از منظری متفاوت می‌نگرد.
A summary of the previous work of the Durant family. Is rather good summary worth reading
I absolutely loved this book, Will & Ariel Duran dedicated a life (about 50 years) to study history 
