https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/231585.Small_Sacrifices
"Small Sacrifices" is leaner, fairer and more balanced than Rule's bloated, often slanted later works in which saccharine philosophizing pushes its way into the narratives.
The irony is that a lot of people — mostly Diane Downs supporters, who, nearly three decades later are still legion — will be happy to tell you that "Small Sacrifices" is one of her most biased works.
"Small Sacrifices" is a book from when Rule was still hungry, still on the ascendancy of her career, still with something to prove to the world.
I don't read many true-crime books over and over, but "Small Sacrifices" is in that rotation.
This is a book you wish was fiction instead of true crime of a sociopathic mother.
I don't want to say too muchand spoil the story.
This is a fascinating story of a Narcissus and a calculated killer who committed the ultimate vicious heartbreaking crimes, hence the name Small Sacrifices!
Be forewarned this is a very true story and is so heartbreaking but the author writes in a style where you want to stop reading yet you're compelled to continue on because you need to know more about this monster and Anne Rule will give you all the answers and more.
In the episode they talked about how this woman, Diane, had shot her 3 children, killing 1 of them and injuring the other 2.
It is a very scary thing to think that you aren't just reading a book...that this was a true story but the book was excellent.
I encourage anyone who is interested in this case or just would like a good murder mystery (even though it is a true story) to read this book.
Feels weird to rate a true crime book about a woman who tried to murder her three kids with a "I really liked it".
The author makes no secret that she believes Downs did the crime but she lays all the evidence in front of us as if we are the jurors and I liked that.
Even with that tiny voice that still won't be quiet I believe she did indeed shoot her kids and made up a horrible story to cover it up.
Cannot believe something so horrible could happen, but things like this happen every single day.
There's a scene of Diane Downs (played by Farrah Fawcett's hair) where she's driving the kids to the middle of nowhere for less witnesses (preferably none alive, anyway) to their impending murder.
(There's a darker side to that story in that mom whined faaar too much for my comfort about four kids ruining dating chances.
I couldn't possibly remember what all of them are or I'd add (and rate) 'em to goodreads.
She'd recommend them and then I'd read so we could have cozy discussions about murder and the nature of nutjobs like Diane Downs.
I know it's pitiful and comes from heartbreak and desperation, but it really bugs me when a loved one of an accused killer (Jackie Peterson; Diane's father) actually justify seemingly remorseless behavior with stupid, disingenuous lines like "You can't know how you'll react under those circumstances.
Pretending to be on the phone from Paris with some trashy whore you seduced on a blind date with strawberries and champagne (that cracks me up, she's such a skank)like Scott Peterson did is not normal.
Jammin' along and noddin' your head to "Hungry Like the Wolf" as it was played in the courtroom, when you're on trial for shooting your own children, is not normal.
To be continued...13/6 - What an interesting woman, and by interesting I mean batshit crazy, though not in a 'raving lunatic' clinical diagnosis type of way (doctors said she had numerous personality disorders, but was definitely sane), crazy in the way that she must have been crazy to believe that she could murder her kids and get away with it and crazy to think that all she needed to do to get 'Lew' back for good was to eliminate her children from the picture.I looked Diane up on Wikipedia this morning and have just spent 13 minutes listening to Diane's second parole board hearing in 2010, she sounds even more confused about what the 'true' story is than ever.
The amount of research Rule must have had to do to paint such a complete picture of Diane Downs and all the aspects of her crime and trial just boggles the mind.Overall Downs was a pretty horrible person, utterly selfish and ceaselessly attention seeking.
Diane seemed pretty dumb to me.
Still, I was not without sympathy for Diane, especially as Rule recounted her early years; the alleged sexual abuse by her father and her quiet loneliness in school, ostracized by the other girls for who knows what reason.
Just like Downs thought she could cure her son's paralysis with "love," loving the baby in her uterus somehow was supposed to wipe out the anti-loving destruction of the previous child.* (3) Because she was a sociopath and didn't fully understand how other people's emotions worked, she did think that, without the children, she might be able to get her stalkee back.(4) She saw a chance to be the ultimate center of attention, to be the Heroic Young Mother and the Grief-Stricken Parent at the same time, sort of like cashing all your Munchausen's by Proxy chips in at once.Most of her reasons were bad reasons, but that doesn't mean they weren't her motive.The other reason to compare Small Sacrifices and The Stranger Beside Me is Rule's attitude toward her subject.
I'll never forget the "live"(from prison)interview of the female monster of this book on the "Oprah" show some years back.
It was the only time I ever saw (of the few times I ever watched the show,of course(Ha)),Oprah get so angry that had - that woman(monster)of been in studio with her-Oprah wanted to and would have physically beaten her down.
Of course,to the delight and cheers of the audience.
This book will absolutely put a knot in your stomach,that to some degree, I truly believe never entirely goes away.
These feelings are brought back time and time again by such events as just so recently occurred in Colorado.
Small Sacrifices was an excellent true-crime novel with accurate and detailed information and a well-written set of events that explains the motives behind the case.
My favorite Ann Rule book. I believe this book convinced me to be a true crime writer. Amazing character development with outstanding research.
And it still fills me with horror, dread and makes me very grateful to have had the loving mother I did.Having never heard of Diane Downs or read an Ann Rule book before I wasn't sure what this book would be like but the story intrigued me.
Even days after I've finished it I continue to go back and read through certain passages again.
One written as a letter to her lover back in Arizona read I think I love my kids more than I love you, not something a mother would say.
But overall I think the book was well written no dull dragging moments here.
I agree that this is certainly one of her better efforts, however, I couldn't help but wish throughout that this story had been written by someone other than Rule.
There are lengthy sections dedicated to Downs' journal, often written sort of as chapters from her perspective.
Rule accept's the claim that Downs was abused by her father as a child.
Something doesn't ring true with it, particularly in light of the way Downs interacts with her father as an adult.
A story she started using as a teen and would use strategically in years to follow.
Only Downs and the people she told the story to.
Perhaps nothing is more frightening or fascinating than the female sociopath and maybe that's partly why this book is so intriguing and such a true crime classic (or should be!) In May of 1983, young divorced mother of three Diane Downs shows up at an Oregon ER with her three children.
Ms. Rule's portrayal of Diane is frightening - - a child/woman who would cold-bloodedly attempt to murder her children in order to have one man, and then unhestitatingly sleep with another man in order to impregnate herself with a child to replace a dead one.
Perhaps it is their ability to draw people into them that makes them seem sexier, but I digress.Small Sacrifices is well written and I definitely suggest finding a copy that has the additional part about Diane Downs escape from prison.
And this is definitely a book where you should look up interviews about the woman to see how well Anne Rule described her.
she may not have been as beautiful as she was portrayed, but she was definitely as out of reality and strange as has been written in the book.
This book breaks my heart. This is a case study for the female antisocial personality disorder. This woman is practically a female Ted Bundy. Not because her crimes are the same, but you can almost see the same personality behind the face of Diane Downs. I recommend this book to individuals who are perusing case studies of abnormal psychology with a focus on aberrant behaviors. I would even narrow that focus to individuals looking for case studies of women who are far removed from what we think of as mothers, nurturers, and women.
I remember when Farrah Fawcett played Diane in a TV movie, years ago, and found myself still remembering bits of that when reading this last night. Diane is a fascinating, scary character, and it is so sad that she did so much damage to her children. Having just Googled for updates, she was denied parole in 2010, and won't be eligible even for a hearing until 2020. I hope she never gets out.
This is my favorite Ann Rule, even after all this time. She really gets into the killer's head, but is so revolted by her crimes that she can't find it in herself to have any real sympathy for her. Reads more like a novel than a true crime story.
true story of Diana Downs and the murder of her kids. excellent story makes u wonder what these people think that these innocent beings become so expendable and inconvenient --people like tht shouldn't have kids.
Ann Rule has better access to criminal investigations than any other crime writer, but her terrible writing and insinuation of herself into the story ruins every book.
A very detailed account of a crime, an investigation, and a trial. Small Sacrifices is an interesting psychological study, but it is lengthy and would benefit from some consolidation.
Yet she asserted constantly how much she loved children, even while giving up all the fetuses she carried for sterile women while acting as a surrogate for $10,000 each (in 1980 dollars), while ignoring or passing her own children around to relatives with as little concern about their lives as if they were pet rocks.This is one of those cases which caught the public eye.
I googled her today and her interview with the 2010 parole board did not change my mind, as she yet again told another completely different version of that night to exonerate herself from trying to kill her three children.
This book was very well written and researched and got me interrested in reading about true crime and the story behind it.
I remember watching Opray interview this remorseless killer and thinking "How in the world could ANY mother do this to her children?!!!" This is a terrifying story about "love" gone disturbingly wrong, and one that I could not put down.Ann Rule does a comprehensive view of the characters (including background) and court procedures, including those involved in bringing these killers to justice.
I read anything this author writes and am never disappointed.
The writing isn't just awesome, but it's a solid book. I read it when it first came out, in around 1988, but I always remembered it because of the haunting portrait of Diane Downs. So I found it again and re-read it and it was even better the second time. I'd love to have an even more up-to-date update on Downs, though I assume she's still in prison for life in New Jersey. Fascinating true crime book.
Small Sacrifices is the story of Diana Downs, the woman that tried to murder all of her children when she thought it would benefit her fantasy relationship with a man. She's a very sick woman. She always told people she would someday be famous and live in a big house. Well, she is and she does...too bad her big house has cement walls and stanless steel toilets and mirrors.
This is one of the first Ann Rule books I read. I recently reread it. I became familiar with Dianne Downs, after seeing the tv movie, based on this book. Looking for more info, I found the book.I love this story, this book. It is so tragic, so heartbreaking, and Dianne so cunning, calculating. Once you pick it up this one is hard to put down.
Think this was the first Ann Rule book I ever read. Have been a fan of her books ever since.
Great book
Great book
