https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33807.The_Talbot_Odyssey
Their ragtag band features the children of greatest generation and some additions from MI-6 and other intelligence services.The 'twist' is that this book was originally published in 1976 and the crazy communists were the USSR and the spies were OSS agents.
In addition to trying to save the world the 'good guys' are trying to discover which of their agents is Talbot a turncoat during WW2 who gave the USSR names of OSS agents.I don't know how many times I have read this book but it gets better every time.
I would describe this book as "OK" but if I give it two stars it would give the wrong impression.
This is "OK" for a Nelson DeMille book.
Right?" My point is that Nelson DeMille is awesome and bits of his sarcasm and humor and wit and smarts and sly political statments and laughing at bureaucrats and such are on display here, but not enough.
If you want to skip this one to read all his other books, I won't mind.
If you're reading through his entire oeuvre, as am I, just know that this story doesn't hold up quite as well as all his others.
There are too many seemingly-unrelated incidents, story lines and characters that don't make a whole lot of sense until you're half way through the damn book.
This hide-the ball approach does pay off to some extent in the latter half of the book, when the various webs of deceit are unraveled, but the pain in getting there wasn't worth it.I double checked, and 1/4 of the way through the book, I had no clue who the main character was ...
The latter half of the book was solid.
Glad I read it, but would not read it again.
This is another one of those books for which I wish there was a fractional rating system. This is a great story but does not rate a "5" nor does it rate a "4" I would give it a 4.6. This story starts out slow - in fact, I thought about discarding it through the first 100 or so pages. Then it really picked up and I could not stop.Another great plot from Demille.
Well structured but dry as chalk dust in the desert. The gigantic cast gets overwhelming and requires a flow chart. If this was my first DeMille book, I doubt I'd have read more but a decent example of how a writer can grow and become far more entertaining...it just didn't happen yet for this example.
enjoyable,captivating,terrific!!
Toby Abrams, an ex-cop, has been with the O'Brien, Kimberly, and Rose law firm of New York for just a little over a year.
Having the protection of a rather mundane, unobscure job, he suddenly finds himself in a swirl of intrigue, wondering who, when, where and how.
Time seems to be of the essence as people start dying or disappearing rIght and left.
With the help of Katherine Rose (lawyer), an acne pocked teenager, a promiscuous housewife, and a group of contracted "killers" the clock ticks on and resolution is but a time bomb away.
I read the John Corey novels (Plumb Island, The Lion's Game, Night Fall and Wild Fire) first. I enjoyed them so much that I went back and started to read all of DeMille's other novels. Tony Abrams really reminds me of John Corey, with his witty smart-assed comments. The book was a bit uneven. There were parts that dragged, and other parts that I couldn't wait to turn the page. The agent, double agent, triple agent scenarios seemed a bit contrived. I never felt that I was bought in to the motives of why they flipped (sometimes multiple times).
The plot trailers showed great potential...then pfffftt. The first 100 pages was so slow and complex that I was unsure what was going on and where the book was going. Then, there are too many seemingly-unrelated incidents, story lines and characters that don't make a whole lot of sense until you're through the book. The gigantic cast gets overwhelming. I gave up about half way through and skipped to the end -- very unsatisfying and I still don't know who "Talbot" is.
This is the first Nelson DeMille book that I read. People claimed I would like him, but they were very wrong unless this is a bad example of his writing. The book went from being unrealistic with characters that were undeveloped to being completely absurd with characters that I wished would die. The good thing about this book was that it was not terrible, just bad.I have another book by DeMille and will give him a second chance as good authors sometimes produce stinkers.
I really like Nelson DeMille's sense of humour.The credibility got a little stretched toward the end, but the plot was well worked and intricate: we thought about the ins-and-outs for days after finishing. If was refreshing having a book that tied up all the lose ends, but still left room for digging.
DeMille is so good that even his so-so books are highly readable. I'm not a fan of stories that involve fictional presidents of the United States or ordinary schnooks who find themselves in save-the-world-from-catastrophe situations but DeMille makes it work as well as anyone could.
Good read. Set in Russia. I could see all of it happening before me.
Non-Le Carre Cold War spy books: its like they are from 150 years ago... I won't even get into Tom clancy's late 80s material!
pick any this is were i started
Boring. Got to page 2xx and realized I couldn't care less about any of the characters or how it ended. Quit reading at that point. Too slow and laborious with little to show for slogging through.
Lots of intrigue. Double and triple agents. Torture, mayhem. gotta' love it.
A real page turner.
My favorite of his books. I've read it many times.
My first "potboiler." It was ok. Not fantastic, but ok.
An enjoyable read!
Fast, frightening, fantastically forebodingConsider this a timely read in 2017. Had I read this long ago the psychological impact would have had far less an affect. DeMille, like a good friend, reminds me why this genre has been the most satisfying. If you desire to be taken away on a wild ride, w racing heart into frighteningly plausible plot, look no farther. If you, reader, have never experienced DeMille start with his first and grow into the knowledge he will never disappoint.
Awesome Cold War intrigue, with some unpredictable twists.Nelson DeMille has a talent for opening up info about other countries like few others I've read. He did it with the books on Vietnam, same here about the Russians, even though the events take place in the USA. Add to that his great job of 'painting' the characters, his inimitable humor and it's another very entertaining, always educational book that's worth your time.
This book starts out slow, but reading further, I became intrigued with the characters. There are lots of twists and turns in this book which kept me riveted. There are many story lines involving the main characters, and though it was difficult at times to keep things straight, I'm glad that I didn't give up. The John Corey series is much easier to follow, but this book gave me a lot to think about.
The story is ok. But any suspense in figuring out who Talbot or other traitors are, well, it's gone pretty quick. It's obvious who these mystery people are really fast. It's not subtle. But the author is still a damn good writer and he takes you on an interesting ride nonetheless. It's so fun to watch the main character (or characters) react and move through the different difficulties. If you like his stuff, you'll like this well enough. Otherwise start with a John Corey novel of his first.
I’ve read several DeMille books and have loved them all until Talbot Odyssey. The character development in the first quarter of the book is haphazard and difficult to follow. You just have to push through it. It does come together eventually though if you are able to hang in there long enough. I’ll definitely continue reading DeMille, but not because of this novel.
It was a slow read at first. Then I got caught up in the story and I couldn't put it down until I know how The Talbot Odyssey ends. This was a heart-pounding, suspenseful story on espionage and patriotism, loyalty and betrayal. It was also a reminder of "how little we know of men's hearts and souls."
Hard to rate. He opens this book confusing and slow. Way too many characters. But his ending is spectacular action. If it wasn't a summer read, I wouldn't have kept it up. Early DeMille, some growing pains as a writer. Cool idea of EMP very early (1984).
Spy vs Double Spy vs Triple Spy...former Cop now becoming a lawyer, Tony Abrams, called in. Time running out as the Cold War comes to the brink of a mutual nuclear destruction. Great writing and superb narration, as always, by Scott Brick!! Very enjoyable.
The good old days.We had a well defined enemy. They captivated our imaginations and kept us from eating each other. Alas no more. Who would have thought it possible to miss the Great Bear of the USSR? And not just for some possible election meddling.
