https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4413346-the-people-of-the-black-circle
And even I can still admire the compelling, propulsive prose—goodness, Howard knew how to tell a story!--a prose that pulls you right in and keeps you going.
And certainly the narrative is filled with twists and turns, fraught with incident.Part of it I'm sure isn't Howard's fault, for his writing is a victim of his own posthumous success.
I've consumed all the official movie versions, not to mention a pile of stories penned by lesser writers (and a few by very good writers like Leiber too) crammed with stolen Conan ideas.
And bored.But the man sure knew how to write!
This 1934 story was fast and furious, with all sorts of weird events, wizards, amazing deeds of super strength and plenty of blood and guts.
Howard wrote many adventure tales featuring Conan The Barbarian.
This was a new one for me, and I thought it was cool.Where else but with Howard could I travel through the Zhaibar Pass in the Himelian mountains, on the way to Afghulistan?
Conan gets involved because seven of his men have been taken prisoner by the man who is approached for help by the Devi.
The Devil in Iron • [Conan] • (1934) The People of the Black Circle • [Conan] • (1934) A Witch Shall Be Born • [Conan] • (1934) Jewels of Gwahlur • [Conan] • (1935)
Man, Robert knew how to start a visceral, bloody and blindingly fast fantasy adventure and keep consistent pace. Nothing like a good adrenaline rush from beginning to end.
Best one yet, by far.
As leader of a tribe of hillmen, Conan the Cimmerian competes with black sorcerers and foreign agents for possession of a princess whose ransom would enable him to save seven of his subjects from execution.This is a rousing adventure of shifting loyalties, black magic, and tempestuous barbarian passions, all vividly rendered by Robert E. Howard’s muscular, evocative prose. Of course, all the usual Hyborian tropes are present--wizards turn into snakes, beautiful women swoon in Conan’s powerful arms--but if you are a fan of Howard’s work, none of this detracts from the fun.
The broad Bakhariot girdle that supported his knife in its ornamented scabbard would have matched the robes of a prince, and there was a glint of fine Turanian mail under his shirt.'Your captive is awake, Conan,' said the Wazuli girl, and he grunted, strode up to the fire and swept the strips of mutton off into a stone dish.The squatting girl laughed up at him, with some spicy jest, and he grinned wolfishly, and hooking a toe under her haunches, tumbled her sprawling onto the floor.
Conan stood looking down at her, his thumbs hooked in his girdle.
Could this be the best Conan story?This is a page-turner from beginning to the very last.
It opens with death, and then dips into sorcery, suggests romance, and dishes out amazing chase scenes and barbarian-versus-necromancy battles.
It's got everything any good game of, for instance, Dungeons & Dragons has: magic items for spell resistance, spellcasters, shapeshifters, a dungeon crawl, and minor puzzle traps.It's brilliant, and I'm pretty sure I'm going to run some friends who haven't read this book through this scenario next time we meet for a game.Conan doesn't enter the book until a chapter or two in, and the story cuts away from him a few times, but the Conan scenes are solid, proper Conan scenes: devil-may-care strength plus profound cynicism.
Perfect.
Favorite Conan story to date. Granted there are a few more to go, but do like this one. There is more of an evolved plot in this story. The characters feel more fleshed out as well. This reads as the Conan I heard about growing up. The warrior who leaped into a horde of battle because he knew he could turn the tide in his favor. Plus the confidence to know he could have the girl at the end of the story and still walked away saying he would get her latter.
Finished listening to this one on my way to work yesterday evening. I felt like every beat of the story was straight out of a "B" movie, I could almost "see" the storyboard layout of every scene. In that respect, I think this book does exactly what it sets out to do. It's a fun, fantasy-adventure with some extremely cheesy moments.
I got to The People of the Black Circle, reading in publication order, just as I was considering giving up on Conan. This novella for me is up there with The Tower of the Elephant. The usual failings are present, but it was still a thoroughly enjoyable pulp adventure.
This is the actual story (stories) as written by Robert E Howard. Neither Lin Carter nor L Sprague de Camp laid a finger on it, meaning you get the real, untarnished, unblemished, unbastardized Barbarian at his finest. That alone is reason to read and enjoy this awesome work.
I enjoyed this book much more than I thought I would. Howard is an excellent writer and has a great knack for really evoking a scene. This edition, particularly, added much to my pleasure in this book. The thick paper and wonderful illustrations really did honor to the story.
💕💕💕

The most promising of them would start really strong....but then there would be a 'middle-bit' of world-building, which is always interesting...after which you feel Howard just either ran out of page allot ment or time, where he hastily 'tells', rather than shows, the ending.
It ends with a (relative) twist, with the woman on equal, if not greater, power footing to Conan, which softens the casual, unconscious misogyny that Howard is so often accused of.Nevertheless, it is not as good as some of those earlier stories could have been had Howard taken a similar approach..but I think I would have liked it better 85 years ago when it came out.
Conan's the leader of a band of rebels hanging in the caves of Afghulistan (huh, wonder where that is) but things quickly get out of hand and soon he has all the rebels on his tail and his girl's been captured by a monastery full of strange, cabalistic wizards whose minds and magic are deifically indecipherable.The scene that stuck in my head was the one where the girl (I can't remember her name) was being psychically tortured by the head wizard and he forced her to relive every cruelty ever committed by man on woman, or something to that extent.
So much nostalgia, remembering reading this 20 years ago when I was a 15 year old kid and wanting to grow up to be like Conan.
To hell with magics, I wanted a big sword, I wanted to weight 250lbs, and I wanted to crush skulls on a horse with some princess on my shoulder.After reading this today...I find that many things might have changed in the world, but...I still want a big sword, still want to weight 250lbs, still want to crush skulls on a horse with some princess on my shoulder.
And now I want to read more :)What I do notice today and did not notice back then is how similar these stories are to Tarzan, except with magics.
Wow - I really disliked this book!I had previously read Poul Anderson's take on Conan ( Conan the Rebel ) and found it irritating - Conan is overdone and overblown in the extreme. To my disappointment, I found that the original Conan has every feature to his character that I disliked magnified by a factor of 10!But, to be honest, what has turned me off with both books is both authors' use of language - it is as if they both sat with a thesaurus and looked for the macho words to substitute for th
Wow - I really disliked this book!I had previously read Poul Anderson's take on Conan (
Conan the Rebel
) and found it irritating - Conan is overdone and overblown in the extreme.
To my disappointment, I found that the original Conan has every feature to his character that I disliked magnified by a factor of 10!But, to be honest, what has turned me off with both books is both authors' use of language - it is as if they both sat with a thesaurus and looked for the macho words to substitute for the regular ones.
That's okay for some scenes but for every single action Conan takes?
The phrase that made me put the book down was when Conan "laughed gustily".
I don't have the heart to give this a low star rating, because fans of Howard's Conan stories generally love it and regard it among the best, and I don't want to take anything away from that.
Twice last week - in the pages of Criminal: Special Edition and Wolf in White Van - I encountered references to Conan, and realized that I'd never read any of the original stories, only some of the comics and a book-and-record set back in the 70s.
Everything I dislike about high fantasy in print - particularly an overdose of unpronounceable character and place names - leaped from the pages in full force.
I was not planning on reading (or hearing) this book.
I was simply bored today and I was vaguely interested in reading one of the conan stories, soo i found one of the audiobooks on youtube and was just going to hear a minute or two to see if it was at all interesting.
The one real flaw i found in this story was that I didn't feel like the book stopped to take a breath at all.
Just non-stop stuff happening.
But honestly it was still a great story, and I'm glad i read (or heard) it.
As a longtime fan of the movies and comics, this is the first of the original Robert E.
Howard Conan stories that I have read, and I am now hooked.
I had tried to read a Robert Jordan Conan book at one point but I could just never get into the story.
Howard was a genius storyteller.
This is a great, easy read, lots of action and suspense.
Perfect vacation book.
Exactly what you'd want out of a pulpy sword and sorcery story.
Very fun, can't wait to read the next story in my book "Hour of the Dragon."
Having not read any Conan stories since my mid teens it was nice to find there was some free on Gutenberg. Even better the original Robert E. Howard stories.It has everything you would expect from a Conan story, scantily clad wenches, bulging biceps, swordplay and black cloacked wizards and Conan in a girdle, didnt expect that bit...And the cover they have used is great from Weird Tales Magazine.
Meh. Not my favorite of the old Robert E. Howard Conan stories but this did fill a gap in my knowledge since Conan ever after refers to his time as a tribal leader of the Afghulis. This is the story of that time. There may be another story that falls earlier than this one about his time spent there but this is the story of how his time among them came to an end.
Niewątpliwie mamy tu do czynienia z klasyką. Wszak to Conan. A jednak równie niewątpliwie jest tak, że w naszych czasach nie sposób nie uznać tego utworu za klasyczny przykład jak nie pisać ;)Myślę, że Conana jednak znacznie lepiej się ogląda niż czyta.
Crazy fun. Loved it.
The story was just the type of fiction, which I love. It has a dashing hero, beautiful princess, daring adventures and countless perils.
Another Sword and Sorcery classic.A good mix of horror in with the action.
Finished this the same day as I finished Red Sonja. The sun went down in a bloodred sky.
I got what I was looking for out of it - hooded sorcerers, barbarians, grim mountain fastnesses, chthonic monsters. Good fun!
