https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153865.Captain_Underpants_and_the_Attack_of_the_Talking_Toilets
George and Harold are two bright yet… precocious young men who write their own comic books about a character they call Captain Underpants.
Due to some accident that occurs in the first Captain Underpants book, their principal is occasionally hypnotized to believe he is Captain Underpants, during which time he sheds his clothes and his toupee and runs around the school in his tightie-whities with a curtain tied around his neck.
Yes, it’s primarily third-grade boy humor, like making the talking toilets throw up by stuffing them with creamed chipped beef from the school cafeteria, but it’s also quite fun.
I enjoyed reading this second installment in this graphic novel series. I find it less funny than the first one but nevertheless, readers will still laugh with the 'potty' adventures of George, Harold and Captain Underpants.
My first Captain Underpants book and I loved it!Jokes and gags were well thought and effectively executed.The scene where the boys switched the letters from 'Come in and see our pretty armchairs' to 'Come in and see out hairy armpits' had me in stitches :) Oh, and the collection of flip-o-ramas during action sequences add wonders.
Captain Underpants and the Attack of the Talking Toilets opens with a comic strip giving a premise of the book- telling the true story of how they hypnotized their principal.
Two boys, Harold and George transform their principal into Captain Underpants whenever they snap their fingers.
Harold and Greg copied their newest comic strip about talking toilets that indeed attack.
The pictures really make the reader feel as though they are reading a comic strip when they are actually reading a book.
These fourth-grade boys and their crazy antics appeal to many children, boys and girls, throughout the elementary levels of readers.
Decidedly less funny than the first Captain Underpants book. I'm not expecting high humor, here, but the kids didn't even really laugh at this one. Although they did engage in a lively debate about why toilets would even need to wear underwear. Who knows, maybe they're budding debate club members. Honestly, do our politicians even have debates much above this level?
3.5 Stars
I know. I know. >.>Don't judge me.I read comics and go to the younger book section when I'm stressed. V-V
Captain Underpants is an amazing childrens' series. I wish I would've read them when I was little. I regret that I haven't. But now I am, and I'm having a good time! "Captain Underpants" is an enjoyable and funny read. I like the pictures too. I find it impressive that the author writes and draws. Usually childrens' authors hire illustrators, but not this one. I'm looking forward to reading more of  Dav Pilke's books.
George and Harold see a sign on there way to school it says "second annual invention convention" then suddenly Mr.Krupp there principal jumps out of the bushes behind the sign and says they cant go but George and Harold are prepared they sneek into the gym and find melvin they make a deal with him that they wont mess up his invention if he says they were never here, he agrees then they sbotage all the other inventions and get to work then melvin changes his mind and tells Mr.Krupp.I would recommend this book to a second grader.
Lolo forgot about the fliporamas Brought back great memories and I laughed the whole time lol
A hilarious, gross, entertaining, imaginative, wonderful middle-grade series that left me in stitches. this is one of the best book that Dav picky has every written in this life time I have to say!.
With the second book in the series, Pilkey picks up steam and presents a totally hilarious story.
Following the same formula as the first book, this one ups the fun factor with a couple of comic sections and two Flip-o-ramas.
Book one was just OK however with the second outing for Captain Underpants Pilkey doesn't hold back and we get to see that he's fully capable of: making kids laugh, with outrageous silliness and humour of a kind that kids and adults will get on different levels.
The only way I would have rated this at least 2 stars if I had found out it was written by a kid, or at least by someone when they were 5.
There are no evidence or indication about this tough so I'm sticking with a 1 star to simply say "I didn't like it" to which I'll add..
Ps: This was lent to me by a 10 year old relative who knows I love reading so and she told me to read this book as she, apparently,  "read it in just one day, at school!"   so I'll obviously pretend I actually liked i
The only way I would have rated this at least 2 stars if I had found out it was written by a kid, or at least by someone when they were 5.
There are no evidence or indication about this tough so I'm sticking with a 1 star to simply say "I didn't like it" to which I'll add..
Ps: This was lent to me by a 10 year old relative who knows I love reading so and she told me to read this book as she, apparently, 
so I'll obviously pretend I actually liked it for the sake of humanity and kindness.
Obviously, I am not the target audience for this, but it was the perfect bit of silliness for the commute home after a long day. And I have to give a lot of credit to whomever was responsible for the music and sound effects. They were done in such a way as to add to the cartoon-y feel, but not overdone so as to distract. So, great job there.
Not really my cup of tea, but read with my son to encourage him to read more books and become a more confident reader (he has dyslexia). Amusing and silly story with lots of gimmicky things to keep the reluctant reader turning the pages.
I am in fourth grade and I am nine years old. This book is not my level but it is funny and fun to read. My favorite part of the book is when George and Harold were principal for the day.
Kaikki lapset lukemaan tempaava kirja. Hihityttävää vessahuumoria ja liik-kuvaa-kuvaa.
It's cool
This book is a funny book full of adventure and funny stuff my favorite part is when captain underpants goes to fight the big tolet I would recommend this book to people that like adventure.
Funny book
I didn't like this book that much. I guess it was because my dad read it to me a loooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooong time ago. I honestly think the book was kind of boring because all it was about was making jokes and after about 10 jokes, they aren't that funny. The "exciting" >_< part was just like all superhero books : the hero saves the day by destroying the villain who has some sort of machine that destroys the world. This book was about Captain Underpants defeating some talking toilets.
I however, will not read anymore of these books simply because I don't think I will find it funny a second time around.
This book is something a younger audience becomes engaged with because of its comic set up.
Reading it I was able to understand why children are so interested in them.
Like what they do to their principal....( I don't want to spoil for those who have no read).
There are a couple of scenes in the book that are a little immature and unrealistic but, I understand its appropriate for the intended age level.
This is a funny book about two kids who love to make up comic books. Their main character is captain underpants and his adventures in saving the world. This is a fun read with child humor involved and the perceptions of their days at school and the world. This is also an engaging book for the young reader who is learning to love literature.
Very good talking toilets they were romantic
Lots of umm.... humor
I am sure a lot of people won't like the humour in this one (toilet humour, plus over-the-top evil teachers/principal), but I quite liked it!
I am sure lots of kids wouldn't mind that, though then again, from what I hear most school are going digital with their boards, so I wonder how many will still be able to use this invention.
When Captain Underpants turned up, the story picked up even more and I enjoyed it so much.
I am sure kids will adore this Captain Underpants, and will laugh themselves silly reading it.Review first posted at https://twirlingbookprincess.com/
Parents who aren't already on the Captain Underpants bandwagon are missing out. These books are fun, funny and most of all they get kids engaged with real books, not just game screens. Harold and George are best friends and a pair of truly mischievous kids. In the first book they kinda sorta accidentally brainwashed their mean principal into becoming Captain Underpants, the comic superhero they created. In this book Principal Krupp (Captain Underpants' alter ego) is holding the second annual In
In the first book they kinda sorta accidentally brainwashed their mean principal into becoming Captain Underpants, the comic superhero they created.
In this book Principal Krupp (Captain Underpants' alter ego) is holding the second annual Invention Convention, and after George and Harold ruined the last one with a new body heat activated, super fast drying glue he's declared them not invited.
My son is autistic and he cannot get enough of this series and even asks to go to the bookstore to get the next in the series as we finish each one.)	Highly recommended, despite the fact that Harold and George are at times jerks, because of how it reached kids.
This is another hilarious book in the Captain Underpants series by Dav Pilkey.
We really liked the first book and I'm not sure why we waited so long to read the next one.
All in all, I find these stories to be very entertaining and perfect for getting reluctant readers to learn to love books.
March 2012 update: Our youngest liked these books so much that she's borrowing them again from her elementary school library.
Captain Underpants and the Attack of the Talking Toilets is an engaging, comedic, laugh out loud book that will keep a child interested through the entire story!
Until their school gets zapped by a UFO ray that turns all of the toilets into live eating monsters.
The action-packed novel with many detailed illustrations keeps the reader engaged through the entire book!I really enjoyed reading this book, it took me back to my childhood and reminded me of how much I loved these books.
The comic book type format keeps the reader engaged and I loved that about this story.
This floored me a little as he is a really good little reader, but apparently he reads what he is told to at school and knows the words he sees on the page, but doesn't really enjoy it (and after listening to the school readers with him each week, I am not overly surprised).Anyway, I was told by a local librarian that these are books that young boys love.
We read a few chapters over a few nights which didn't push his boredom metre too much.
On a few of the nights he even asked for one more chapter to find out what was going on.
