https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13815.Servant_of_the_Empire
It has an interesting culture, a lot of manipulations for political power, a ton of battles, a wonderful romance, which on its own is a miracle for a Fantasy of this type, and most of all, it never crossed into the overly-done category in anything!!!
I liked Kevin and the influence of his culture that he brought onto Mara's thinking, but I was also not happy that the influence was not equally distributed both ways.

5 stars easily earned.The 2nd in the Empire trilogy pits Mara and her classy team of experts against the despicable villainy of Tasaio and the powerful Minwanabi family.I love the characterization, which is rich and nuanced, these are characters you can really care about.
Although there are heart rending moments as well.There is romance and it occasionally gets pretty physical at times, but the narrative context is always strong, and the scenes are very tastefully written - hence nothing gratuitous.The bottomline, this is a fantastic part of the "The Empire Trilogy," and I would happily recommend it to anyone to read - provided you read "Daughter of the Empire," first.
4.5 Stars.Mara is a fantastic heroine and probably one of my favourite female fantasy protagonists.
The second book in the series has none of the lull so many sequels suffer from and instead packs plot for at least two books into one.What I enjoyed most, for once (and it did come as a surprise) was the romantic element.
I really loved Kevin as a character and found his relationship with Mara to be one of the best aspects of this book.Every characters gets to grow and is developed further.
There is no reason not to like this one if you enjoyed Daughter of the Empire.
4.5 stars
3.5 StarsServant of the Empire continued the Riftwar spinoff series started in Daughter of the Empire, and offered another fun and layered adventure set in the unique Tsurani world.
We get to see more of the Tsurani world, which I enjoyed, as it broadened an already fascinating setting.
There were also a number of events that tied in to the original Riftwar series, which as a huge fan of those books was a lot of fun to see.
This book was significantly longer, and at times the political machinations started to feel a little repetitive.
Though the Tsurani culture is wonderfully unique, there are times the attitudes toward slavery and the devaluation of human life.
The romance is also well handled, and feels tumultuous, tangled, passionate, and real.My one gripe about this book is that ethics-wise, it felt a little too much like "Westerner comes to barbaric world and shows them the error of their ways, having a civilising effect on them".
As a citizen of a country that was previously colonised, this felt personal and reminiscent enough of real life that I felt a little uncomfortable about it.All in all though, this is still an excellent book, and I enjoyed it immensely.
It makes reading the second book right after the first one a disappointment, which is the reason why I've only given Servant of the Empire a rating of two stars.The largest gripe I have with this book is the introduction of Kevin.
In Mara's world, however, he proved to be intrusive: he appeared in every chapter and was given a lot of spotlight, and his role to supply Midkemian insight into the world of Kelewan was potrayed with such annoying efficacy that it made me wonder why Feist even bothered with introducing the Tsurani culture in the first place.
This was poor writing, and could have been done in a more convincing way.The introduction of Milamber from the Riftwar Saga in this book was another major gripe.
He falls in love with Mara and abandons his men with hardly a backward glance, leaving them to the privations of living as slaves while he lives in comfort and luxury.
There is some interesting conversational byplay between Mara and Kevin as they both explore the differences in culture and society that occasionally drive a wedge between them.
I will read the third book in the trilogy, but mainly because I am a little obsessive and hate leaving things undone.
But so far the trilogy has been a bit of a disappointment to me, I was expecting much more after reading the first book.
Στο πρώτο βιβλίο αυτής της τριλογίας η αγαπητή μας Mara δεν τα κατάφερε και άσχημα, σε αυτό το δεύτερο, όμως, τα πράγματα γίνονται δυσκολότερα καθώς ισχυρότεροι αντίπαλοι μπαίνουν στο παιχνίδι και παίρνουν την κατάσταση στα χέρια τους εξαπολύοντας επίθεση τους.
Εκτός, όμως, από τα πολιτικά παιχνίδια η ηρωίδα μας μαθαίνει και καλύτερα κάποια...
άλλα παιχνίδια, τα οποία και αυτά φέρνουν τα προβλήματα τους.
Φυσικά αυτή η επιτάχυνση δεν στερεί από το βιβλίο όλες αυτές τις αρετές που εκτίμησα στο πρώτο μέρος.
In book one Mara is 17, becomes Ruling Lady of the Acoma facing powerful enemies with only 37 warriors to protect her and her hard to defend estate lands.
It starts right after book one ends and you fall seamlessly back into the world Feist and Wurts created.
Not only that, the pace picks up and the stakes are raised even higher as Mara and the Acoma are faced with an even more ruthless enemy.
We see our heroine, Mara, make decisions in haste that cause more conflict and we cannot predict how this story will play out.I was completely invested in this book.
Very, very good.
A stellar model in the writing of epic political thrillers.Servant of the Empire serves up some really good writing that's only to be expected of a combo of two of the best writers the genre has ever seen.
There's a lot more work done on the characters.
The cast is much larger and things are more complex.
There's also a lot of things happening at the same time.
It's complex enough to rival some of the best structures out there like the ones in the WoT series.
But hey, it's a political thriller.
Let's see how it all ends in the final book.
I really enjoyed this one and thought it was better than the first book.
I see in other people's reviews that they didn't like Kevin, but he was probably my favorite part of the book.
My gripes from book 1 do continue on in book 2 though - Mara plans always go perfectly for her and it all seems very coincidental.
The right people side her way, the exact right things happen in the exact right order - which is why I gave it a 4 instead of a 5.
What makes this new-found respect and understanding rather bitter-sweet, is that despite his love for Mara, if the only way to remain with her is as a slave, he'd rather be a broken-hearted, free man on Midkemia than to remain on Kelewan as a piece of property, no matter how well-loved and well-treated.What's interesting is that we also get several points of view from the opposition, the cruel and dangerous Minwanabi family.
Unless I misremember the final book in the series completely, this reread has reinforced my feeling that this series centred on Mara of the Acoma is one of the best fantasy series out there.
Mara's acquisition of Midkemian slaves, including one Kevin changes her life and her way of thinking.
Kevin's view of what to him is inexplicable and sometimes downright bizarre Tsurani culture allows Mara to break out of the strictures imposed by her upbringing and gives her a definite advantage in the Great Game.The politics of this book are fantastically intricate and simultaneously awfully bloody.
The aftermath of Milamber's destruction of the amphitheatre is horrifically blood-drenched.Mara gains in strength and wisdom throughout this book, helped by Kevin's support and love.
Wow... wow.
Sequels don't often live up to the first book, but this isn't one of those times.The characters you know and love are all back and embroiled in the delights of the Kelewanese Game of Council, there are genuinely happy moments where you can't help but smile and be happy for the characters and there are low moments when all seems hopeless and you feel tense and want them to pull through.This is one of those rare books that enhances what was already a superb story and some great characters with further depth and a truly epic story.
"Nunca subestimem a capacidade humana de ser estúpido, ilógico e mesquinho." LIVRO FODA, EXCELENTE!!
Which means sometimes western authors missed a few things about the eastern ways.The plot was good, with numerous climaxes.
In the first book she must fight against an established power, but this time she must deal with brilliant long term planning, and even her resources was used against her.The barbarian slave opens up new possibilities for Mara, allowing her to see things in a new perspective and allows her to twist, bend and tiptoed around honor, tradition and rules even more than in the first book.I would give this book a five star.
I work for the good of the EmpireAfter avoiding the obliteration of house Acoma, the Ruling Lady Mara is now focused on her blood feud enemy, the heir of house Minwanabi. To win this battle, Mara, with the help of her advisors and the slave Kevin from Midkemia, has to reconsider her beliefs, honour and tradition and use her influential and manipulative mind for the good of the Empire.
Yes, this book had a second book slump, but not much of one. I rate it 4.5 stars it would have had 5 stars except for the fact it dragged a bit in places and the names were a bit hard to keep up with but overall a great read. Again, Mara was great. The story again brought tears to my eyes at certain parts but alas, the good guy comes on top but with sacrifice.
Mara cada vez melhor... Essa mulher é incrível demais
Mara is a character whose femininity makes her stronger - who can show emotion, can fail, can admit her mistakes and come back stronger. I love this sequel !
If you actually have something there is more reason to worry about losing it.One of the best set pieces of the series takes place in this book with the night in the capital with the assassins.
It incites such extreme emotions from me that it can be like an anchor dragging the story down, but that didn't happen here.I continue to be more interested in the supporting characters than Mara herself.
The world expands to include the capital of the empire in this book, and while it is not revolutionary, it is as vivid and interesting as everything else.
I couldn’t finish this sequel because I found it slow, predictable, and boring.One hundred pages into its predecessor, Daughter of the Empire, Mara had survived an assassination attempt, saved the life of a trusted family retainer, and pulled off a plan to recruit gray warriors to her house.
It’s boring and demeaning.What really killed the story for me, though, were the long scenes spent with Mara’s enemy, the Minwanabi.
None of the Minwanabi characters were particularly interesting, and knowing exactly what the enemy was planning took away all the suspense.
This fell into the second book slump as I like to call it.
There aren't as many crafty political maneuvers in comparison to the first book but it is still an entertaining read.
I wasn't too fond of the introduction of Kevin and the role that he had in the book.
The inklings of the "western culture/ideals vs everyone else = west is best" ruined a huge portion of the book for me.
With Kevin (view spoiler)[ being sent back to his homeland  (hide spoiler)] I hope that the last book does not continue in this direction.
Rereading with Tansy Rayner Roberts on Tor.comYou know what, I'm just not enjoying this. I'm struggling to read the chapter each week and I find I'm not looking forward to it at all.I'm going to keep reading the Tor.com posts, enjoying Tansy's summary and the comments, but I choose not to make myself keep on reading the book.It's not that it's bad - I have good memories of my original read and I still think it's a good book - but I'm not having any fun, so I'm letting it go.

Mara was more assertive and manipulative, and the book featured a series of thrilling deceptions.
However, the second book possessed a more slow-burn plot with a more subtle deception.
The world was vaster, with the addition of the barbarian land.
Like, I loved the book.
Which was executed brilliantly, but at times I struggled to become truly invested.
But you know what redeems the books?THE LADY OF ACOMA MARAShe is strong.
It was a forbidden love; A lady of a powerful house and a slave.
So bravo to our incredible authors who literally challenged their own book.
