https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1925801.The_Arab_Awakening
: يقظة العرب#الكاتب : جورج أنطنيوس من أبرز مثقفي العرب القوميين مثقف مسيحي فلسطيني له عدة إسهامات في
In all of these ways, Antonius has influenced generations of scholars, and that alone makes this text worth reading.Antonius frames his work as being born of a desire to tell both the Arab and Western perspective of what he calls the “Arab awakening,” or the emergence of Arab nationalism.
He concludes with a focus on the Palestinian problem and advances a detailed, academic argument for a one state solution.Antonius’ work is illuminating and seminal, but not without its flaws.
كتاب قيّم جداً.
This book talks about all of the history of the arabs or what is now the middle east from the time of the ottman empire till 1938.
What makes this book special to me is mainly two things, the fact that it has a pre world war 2 perspective and the effort and research the author put into making it.
the author was the first to fully publish the Mchanon correspondence which shows the early agreement the britsh made with the "arabs" regarding the benefit of helping them against the ottman empire and that alone makes this book historicaly significant.
I highly recommend any person to read this book.
And the third section deals with the aftermath of the World War as it pertained to the destinies of the eastern half of the Arab world – the Arabian Peninsula and the Fertile Crescent.It is not a neutral work, and it does not pretend to be so: in the foreword, Antonius clarifies that the ‘object of this book is primarily to tell a story’, and that it is ‘not the final or even a detailed history’, of the Arab nationalist struggle.
تكمن قيمة هذا الكتاب حقيقة لافي السرد التاريخي للقومية العربية وحلم الاستقلال مع أن هذه المادة كانت 
Classic account of the early days of Arab nationalism: its birth in 19th Century Syria, the Arab Revolt and Anglo-French perfidy, the rise of Ibn Saud and their early conflicts with Zionism. For an Arab writer Antonius is admirably fair-minded, treating British and Zionist positions with respect, though he's liable to play down more disreputable Arab actions. Some of his analyses are naive (claiming Ibn Saud is a moderating force!), other more prescient (his analysis of sectarian fissures in Iraq). Essential reading for those interested in the Middle East.
The last chapter on post-war Syria-Iraq-Palestine is worth the price of the book alone.
ولقد غالى جورج انطونيوس في اعتبار الجمعية العلمية السورية عاملًا أساسيًا في نشوء القومية العربية ، وهي الجمعية التي أنشأها النفوذ الاستعماري داخل الكلية السورية الإنجيلية ، فالحقيقة - التي لم يقلها الكتاب- أن هذه الجمعية هي أول عامل محرك لدفع اللبنانيين إلى الانقضاض على الدولة العثمانية ، ودفعت هؤلاء للمطالبة بحكم ذاتي تحت رعاية فرنسا !
[ محمد على باشا الذي لا يتكلم أصلًا العربية ] ، كما يقدم أنطونيوس تفاصيل المؤتمر العربي الأول في باريس سنة ١٩١٣ دون أن يوضح لماذا تم اختيار فرنسا تحديدًا لهذا المؤتمر ؟!
الكتاب محاولة مبكرة لكتابة تاريخ اليقظة العربية أو ما عرف بالقومية العربية واستشعار العرب للحس القوم
This book is more interesting as a historical document than as a book about history. Antonius is writing from within the historical dynamics that he attempts to describe. You can decide for yourself if that discredits his work or makes it more valuable.
" تنبهوا واستفيقوا أيها العرب ---- فقد طمى الخطب حتى غاصت الركب "أعجبني اقتباس عنوان الكتاب من قصيدة إبراهيم اليازجي التي ألهبت فكرة التحرر و الاستقلال في نفوس العرب
The Arab Awakening: The Story of the Arab National Movement by George Antonius (2001)
must read
