https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128752.Bare_Bones
The two main themes--Tempe gets some sort of "back off" warning from the killer and promptly puts herself and/or her friends and family in imminent danger, and she gets knocked in the head A LOT--are tediously repeated here and I have faith that they will continue ad infinitum.
What I find interesting about these books are the bizarre cases Tempe finds herself embroiled in, and the forensics.
I'd never even heard of a spix's macaw before this book, for example.
And these books are nothing like the TV series!!!
But I find Tempe amusing.
Onward to book #7!
It's getting tiring to see the same thing constantly happening.Temperance is ALWAYS in danger.She misses her kid.She misses Ryan.She solves the murder..but it takes FOREVER.The one thing that kept this a page turner was trying to figure out who killed the baby.
Those kind of books shouldn't make you bored..
but it's like I'd rather sit in traffic than keep hearing Temperance being in danger.I have no idea when I'm going to dive into the next book but I feel like I need a mini break from this series.
I need something to get me interested into this book and characters again.
I made the mistake of thinking that this was the first book in Reichs' series, so I was initially surprised at how phoned-in and convoluted it felt.
Reichs writes in sentence fragments that read like sporadic bursts of machine gun fire, as if she had sent the manuscript to her publishers via telegram and was being charged by the word.
I also don't care much for the "cutesy" elements throughout, such as the constant attention to the lovable antics of Tempe's pets or the way that her boyfriend continually acts cute in wholly unrealistic ways.
And don't even get me started on Reichs' Sex And The City-syle attention to fashion and brand names.
I liked the characters, and was pleasantly surprised to recognize the author's name when my kids turned on the TV show Bones, which I'd not watched before; Kathy Reichs is associated with the show, which stars the same lead character (Dr. Temperanceas Brennan, or "Tempe") as her series of novels.The only real disappointment was that the plot was rather strongly formulaic, so that as I neared the end of the novel I found myself thinking, "OK, when is Tempe going to find herself unexpectedly trapped alone with the killer, with no escape in sight until someone from the supporting cast just as unexpectedly bursts in to save her?" I won't tell you whether or not that happens, but I'll go ahead and say that the word "spoiler" wouldn't really apply?On the other hand, formulas come into being because they work, and there's something comfortable sometimes about settling in with a novel whose basic outline you can predict, just to see how a new author explores the genre.The actual book recommended to me was a later one in this series, and I decided to start with this one, which I mistakenly thought was the first.
I keep wondering if these books have always been this way and when I started reading them I didn’t have a lot to compare them to.
There have been times while I am reading that I have no idea which bones she is referring to belong to what case or victim.
I remember when I first started reading these books cheering for Brennan and Detective Ryan.
I think I am going to keep this short; I’m really indifferent on this book.
I feel it really is more of a 2.5 star read but I’m going to round up this time.
My mother in law gave me this book at the beach because she knows of my interest in forensics, but, also, because Kathy Reichs attended UNCC (and she teaches there.) The story was good, but, I do not enjoy Kathy Reich's writing style.
I had forgotten exactly what it was about this book I didn't like, and, I am addicted to BONES, so, I thought I'd give her another chance when I came across Break No Bones.
Her novels read a little like I would imagine a screen play would read, as she describes the attitude or facial expression of a character in only a word or two, without using complete sentences.
I loved that Tempy was not in a love triangle in this book!
I was confused at first because I thought she picked the other guy, but I am glad to be wrong.
I think Tempy really showed her vulnerable side in this book.
I am glad she has a certain someone to lean on.
The ending to this creeped me out because there are certain reptiles that were involved and I am not a fan by them.
So I was very happy when the scene ended and I didn't have to think about them anymore.
"Bare Bones" is the sixth novel in the Tempe Brennan series, and as such builds upon previous characters, past events, and past plots, but hey...if the formula works, don't mess with it.
Brennan, like author Kathy Reichs, is a forensic anthropologist who works between North Carolina and the province of Québec identifying causes of death and IDs remains too badly mangled or maimed for local experts (including the occasional animal).In "Bare Bones" we find Tempe back from her expedition in Guatemala (the setting of her last novel "Grave Secrets") about to go on a much-needed and long-anticipated beach vacation with detective Andrew Ryan, a colleague from Montréal.
A hallmark of the Tempe Brennan series is a plot that seemingly starts as one thing but morphs into something that you couldn't have seen coming as the book progresses.
While at a picnic gathering of locals, Tempe comes across a cache of buried bones.
ANIMAL bones, wrapped and buried in hopes that they would never be discovered.On top of THAT there's a plane crash in a local field that brings with it its own set of mysteries.Without giving too much of the plot away, this is not a simple 'who was criminal who tried to erase the evidence of a full term baby' story.
>>Das ursprüngliche Zuhause dieser Rezension ist der WortWelten-Blog:http://wort-welten.blogspot.de Zusammenfassung:Eigentlich wollte Dr. Tempe Brennan nur mit ihrer Tochter an einem einfachen Barbecue teilnehmen.
Wieder einmal ein spannender Fall für Dr. Temperance Brennan, die forensische Anthropologin ...Fazit:Das hat Spaß gemacht.
Das Miträtseln und zudem der Fakt, dass sich in diesem Buch Tempe und Ryan endlich mal näher kommen, hat mir gefallen, das muss ich schon sagen.
Einziges Manko für mich war der Umstand, dass sich irgendwann einfach alle Ereignisse auf eine Kuddelmuddelart überschlugen und geradezu gezwungen wurden, sich passend aufzulösen - und anders kann ich das wirklich nicht beschreiben.
Reichs' books are an easy read (probably why I read them).
Because I couldn't read it straight through (or almost straight through), I couldn't keep up with the cast of thousands.
Okay, there were not thousands but you know what I mean.
And, in order to close off all the various story lines without making this a HUGE book, some easy endings are opted for.
I'm intelligent, I'll get it.All that being said, I will probably read one or two more to see if anything differs.
One of the aspects of her character that I enjoy is that she can be very self contained and happy within her own space.
She doesn't need anyone else at her side necessarily.There's a point in the story where this comment is made - in a highly sensitive situation Brennan makes the point that while she wants someone to remain with her, that doesn't mean that she needs them.
I thought, for her character, that was a fitting comment.The case in this book is involved.
Overall, all aspects of the book make it a thoroughly enjoyable read.
It wasn’t one of my favourite reads, not even close to be honest. I found it rather challenging to not fall asleep while reading the context. I do have a few other books from this author, I believe in second chances, please don’t let me down this time.
I have read better mystery books compared to this one. I was only curious to know the work of Kathy Reichs. It's enough for me now.
At a party in the country with her daughter and her estranged husband's dog, Tempe Brennan comes across remains of black bear and in her exploration of the bones, finds some that are human.
Tempe is called to the site of a plane crash and all the clues lead to the conclusion that the two men in the plane had been dropping drugs before flying into a mountain.
This is an exciting read and fortunately, the main character is smart, intuitive but human.
Its always fun to read about the adventures of this Tempe Brennan, who I think is a much more interesting character than the TV version.
I chose several owned books from different genres and series and decided to read those series in order until finished filling in the gaps with free library loans.This book falls into my Mystery Series Category as I work my way through the Temperance Brennan Series.
It also falls into the category of a Library Loaned “filler”.I tell you all this because as you can see from my low star rating I did not love this book.
She accidentally falls into a mystery (again) with so many convoluted threads and connections that at times they are hard to follow (again) but ultimately forgivable because you enjoy the book (not so much this time).
And the main character, Dr. Brennan, has a knack for suddenly just KNOWING details she has no way of knowing.
I think perhaps Reichs forgot a few times that she hadn't put certain details in to the story...The doctor herself is fairly unlikeable - carrying random hatred for people for no particular reason and consistently letting it get in the way of her work.
In Brennan's personal life, she is carrying on an affair with a cop who has no apparent reason for being in the story.
I am enjoying this story, but the reader makes a noise with her mouth between words, something like smacking.
Does she read all of this series?Also, the author seems to do a strange thing where instead of the saying "So and So said...", the reader reads a quote and then does an aside to atribute it to the speaker.
It took me a while to figure out why one person constantly said the name of the other after each quote in the conversation.
Typically in a mystery, the author tries to keep up the suspense by tyring to keep the reader guessing about who really committed the crime.
I adore this series of books and find them very easy going and a pleasure to read.
I have enjoyed getting to know the characters over the various different books.
I know the books are different to the tv show but i stared reading them before it was released so my view hasnt been tainted by that.
Sometimes I think people tend to take books too seriously of this genre but at the end of the day its a fictional story that gives you an insight into the world of forensics with mystery and intrigue, a human interest, good humour in places and a really enjoyable read able to paint a clear picture in your minds eye exaclty what I expect from a author of her calibure.
يا لها من رواية .يطارد د. تمبرنس مهووس ( كالعادة ) : متورط بـ تهريب المخدرات والتجارة بها وتهريب الحيوانات وقتلها بطرق وحشية وتصديراعضائها إلى آسيا بطرق غير شرعية ، وإلى جانب ذلك تورطه بجرائم قتل .( كل هذا وأكثر ) .هذه المرة كانت مهمة اكتشاف القاتل صعبة ولم استطع التفكير بها أو الإقتراب من الحل ..وهذه النقطة بالذات ترفع مستوى الرواية لأنني تفاجأت بـ شخصية المهووس القاتل .4/5 .حبكة جيدة ، مثيرة ودرامية وعيوب قليلة ، منها كثرة الضحايا وتشعب القضايا .
started reading because this is who bones is based off of - the author, not the character in the books, though temperance is the character on tv. (who writes books featuring forensic anthropologist "kathy" - so meta!) but i couldn't get into the writing, i wasn't interested at all in the characters/plot, and basically took it back to the library before finishing.
I have been following this series of books for many years now and have always enjoyed every reading experience.
Recently I have revisited them again as my daughter wanted me to buddy read them with her after discovering the television series and then seeing the books in our bookshelves.
I am glad I read the books before seeing some of the television show because otherwise I may not have liked them quite so much.
This book is part of a series featuring the main character, Dr. Temperance Brennan, an anthropologist who splits her time between two medical examiner depts., one in North Carolina and the other in Canada.
Shortly thereafter, a small plane crashes nearby with all aboard burned beyond recognition and then Temperance's dog alerts on buried bones at an abandoned farm.
As Temperance is trying to determine what happened in each of these events, her personal life is evolving in a different direction than she had expected.
Together, Temperance and her detective friend, work together to try and piece together the puzzle.
Temperance Brennan is back from Guatemala (Grave Secrets Novel) and planning her vacation which has to be put on hold because of a ‘bunch’ of bones turning up at different locations.
Temperance Brennan finds herself working overtime to reach a conclusion before the perpetrator/s can catch up to her and her daughter for good!Though I have been following the Bones TV Series for quite some time now, this is only the second novel that I have had a chance to read.
I am still surprised at how naturally I picturise Emily Deschanel as Temperance Brennan while reading the novel.
I'm glad this book got the word out there about shithead poaches and how just out of control the issue is and the billions of dollars involved.
What I can't live with is the same stupid shit she got into a few books back and repeated here again.
Brennan - quit going on about how stupid you are.
Sadly the stuff she belittled herself about (not telling anyone where she was, etc) were the very issues she had a few books back.
I was initially interested in reading this book because I really enjoy the TV series based upon Kathy Reichs' life and story, Bones.
At the end of the story, the main character, Dr. Brennan, is in a life-threatening situation, passes out, and the rest of the story is told after the fact when all the suspense is over.
After dedicating so much time to reading the story, the reader feels cheated because the story is incomplete and abrupt.
A mystery novel without a plot line would be a poor story indeed.
Ce n'est pas le meilleur livre de Kathy Reichs, mais on y apprend des choses sur la contrebande d'organes d'animaux.Présentation de l'éditeurCampé dans le milieu du trafic d’organes d’animaux en voie de disparition, LES OS TROUBLES pose d’importantes questions et tient en haleine jusqu’à la fin.Il fait chaud à mourir cet été à Charlotte et Temperance Brennan, anthropologue judiciaire pour le compte du North Caroline Medical Examiner, ne pense qu’à ses vacances.
Ils semblent d’origine animale, mais Tempe n’en croit pas ses yeux lorsqu’elle les analyse au laboratoire.On tente de détourner Tempe des vraies réponses.
On la suit… C’en est fait des vacances.
These books were a pleasant surprise.Main differences:TV series: Brennan works in the states full time at a university with a high tech lab.Books: Brennan commutes between a police lab in Montreal, Quebec and a university in Colorado (I think, I'm writing this on my first cup of coffee...)TV Series: Brennan doesn't understand emotions most of the time and is very logical.Books: not only does she understand emotions, you learn in the first book that she's AA from trying to lose her problems in a bottle.TV Series: Her crime busting partner is Booth the FBI agentBooks: Depending on the book, she's working with a variety of people in the police force, mostly the police in Quebec - and MOST notably a detective named Andrew Ryan who I'd guess to be Booth's actual counterpart.
This is the third Temperance Brennan book I have read.
I started them out of curiosity because I enjoy the TV show "Bones", which is supposedly inspired by Kathy Reichs' books.
There's a stalker, and Temperance and her daughter are both in danger for a while.
There were two parts where I think the book got a little preachy on wildlife conservation and protection.
Don't get me wrong, I feel very strongly about wildlife conservation, but I think the mystery solving got off track for a bit.
Not my favorite Brennan book, but worth reading.
Better!
Much better than Grave Secrets.
The plot was a little better, and her relationship with Ryan blossoms.
The action was back, Tempe's thought process right on track, but what I didn't like was at the climax.
Having not one clue that that one character (won't name names so as not to blow it for those who have yet to read it) wasn't even suspected until right then.
And of course, after the climax, you find out how all the pieces fit together, but I couldn't do so on my own, which I have a habit of doing mentally when reading a suspense/mystery novel.
