https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42369.The_Hundred_Dresses
It does have a rather timeless appeal, and with all the furor these last few years about bullying, its theme is as relevant as ever.In a school full of children with last names like Allen, Thomas, or Smith, Wanda Petronski stood out.
This fact may or may not have been enough to get her picked on, but Wanda didn't help matters when she opened her mouth and told the other girls that she had "A hundred dresses.
All lined up in my closet."It turns out, she really did have a hundred dresses, but by the time that fact was discovered, Wanda was gone, off to live in the big city where others had names like hers.
Published in 1944 and this book is just as relevant today as it was 72 years ago.
The timeless story of young Wanda Petronski, and what it was like at school to be a poor girl with a strange name, with one faded blue dress that she wore everyday.
Shaming is just as bad as bullying, maybe worse.
This story will make your heart ache, because when we were in school we were "Wanda", or we knew a "Wanda".
Yes this book should be required reading and it is in some schools.
Beautifully written, just a remarkable story.
کتاب مصور «صد دست لباس» نوشتهی «الینور استیس» با تصویرگری «لوییز اسلوبودکین» است.
این کتاب برای کودکان نوشته شده.
هلنا استیس دختر نویسندهی کتاب در مقدمه آورده است: «سالها پیش از مادرم پرسیدم که چرا این داستان را نوشت.
او به من گفت که در دبستان یک همکلاسی داشته که چون هر روز با همان یک دست لباس به مدرسه میآمد، مورد تمسخر و آزار قرار میگرفت؛ علاوه بر این که نام لهستانیاش خاص و غیرعادی بود و تلفظ آن برای خیلیها دشوار...
همکلاسی او هر روز همان یک دست لباس را میپوشید و به مدرسه میرفت؛ چون او فقط هم
این کتاب برای کودکان نوشته شده.
همکلاسی او هر روز همان یک دست لباس را می‌پوشید و به مدرسه می‌رفت؛ چون او فقط همان یک دست لباس را داشت.»من فکر میکنم این کتاب برای کودکان نیست...درسته خیلی خیلی روان و سطحی نوشته شده ولی مضمونی داره که متاسفانه تا زمانی دنیا دنیاست انسان از خودش به دور نخواهد کردخشونت ، تمسخر و ریش خند کردن، رد اشخاص جدید، بیرحمی، بزدلیو البته در سمت دیگه ویژگیهای والایی مثل زیبایی هنر، داشتن مناعت طبع و بلند نظری و قلب پاک و از دست ندادن امید و آرزو در اوج فقر و بی کسی....
کتاب «صد دست لباس» داستان دختر نوجوانی به نام «واندا پترونسکی» است که با خانواده لهستانیتبار خود در یکی از شهرهای امریکا زندگی میکند. همکلاسیهای واندا در مدرسه او را مسخره میکنند... .نویسنده که در واقع خود یکی از همکلاسیهای واندا بوده سعی کرده است با نوشتن این داستان، اشتباه خود را جبران کند. گناه او «بیتفاوتی» نسبت به آزار واندا بود.این داستان در سال ۱۹۴۵ جایزه «نشان نیوبری» را اخذ کرد و در سال ۲۰۰۷ یکی از صد کتاب منتخب معلمان «انجمن آموزش ملی» امریکا گردید.
کتاب «صد دست لباس» داستان دختر نوجوانی به نام «واندا پترونسکی» است که با خانواده لهستانی‌تبار خود در یکی از شهرهای امریکا زندگی می‌کند. هم‌کلاسی‌های واندا در مدرسه او را مسخره می‌کنند... .نویسنده که در واقع خود یکی از هم‌کلاسی‌های واندا بوده سعی کرده است با نوشتن این داستان، اشتباه خود را جبران کند. گناه او «بی‌تفاوتی» نسبت به آزار واندا بود.این داستان در سال ۱۹۴۵ جایزه «نشان نیوبری» را اخذ کرد و در سال ۲۰۰۷ یکی از صد کتاب منتخب معلمان «انجمن آموزش ملی» امریکا گردید.
This book has remained in my memory because it speaks to many of the issues that children deal with today.
The main character wears the same outfit everyday, and yet claims to have a hundred.
Due to her claim of having a hundred dresses, the students ridcule her.
Sadly, the students merely see the physical,where as the main character sees beyond the physical.
Though in the physical she was not attired with the hundred dresses,in her imagination and drawings she was and that was sufficient for her.
One needs to look beyond the physical when the physical IS empty; for in the imagination there is a wealth of things.
The book is still relevant these 70 years later because it touches on important concepts like bullying, peer pressure, and racial discrimination.
When Wanda shows up one day in her shoddy yet clean blue dress, the class queen Peggy and sidekick Maggie start teasing her.
Internally, however, Maggie does not condone this behavior because she wears handmedown clothes and does not want to be the next kid taunted should Peggy stop focusing on Wanda.
I feel like all middle grade (2-5) classes should read this in class and then have a poignant class discussion about peer pressure, teasing, etc.
A moving story with an important message and very beautiful illustrations.Wanda is looked down upon at school, she only has one dress and her surname is seen as 'funny' by the rest of the children.
The book gives an important message - even though Maddie didn't join in with the bullying, she was still guilty by not standing up for Wanda and telling her friends to stop.
I think this is valuable message for children that not only should you be kind to others but you should also speak out when you know something you see happening is wrong.
Maybe it's because I have a similar story from my childhood that still gnaws away at my heart.
Maybe it's because my daughter came home and told me about something similar that's happening in her class and she doesn't know what to do about it.
Bianca and I both read it and then we discussed what the best way to handle a similar situation.
I want Bianca to learn to handle it the right way because I don't want something like this to gnaw at her heart when she's 35.
This short story written in the early 1940's, has a very timeless message. The illustrations added dimension to the written word.
Audiobook #170
And my present financial circumstances currently mean I have only one nice shirt I can wear to church, and I know people have noticed that I have to wear it every week (though they thankfully don't tease me about it).
I hope that as our Relief Society reads this book, more eyes can be opened to the needs of those right in our midst.
The Church cannot hope to save a man on Sunday if during the week it is a complacent witness to the crucifixion of his soul” (Helping Others to Help Themselves [pamphlet, 1945], 4).
A highly recommended story that speaks powerfully to girls about friendship and forgiveness, with simple, child-like drawings that reflect the understated feel of the tale itself. It is a story that truly enlarges the heart and is sure to be passed around among friends.
I just love these books that were written years ago and are still wonderful. The story is really about bullying but I don't think that was even a word in 1944. The story carries a strong message and the artwork is so unique and wonderful.
Clearly, she’s not telling the truth, but Peggy doesn’t let the subject drop; instead, she asks Wanda every single day thereafter how many dresses she has…and Wanda always answers the same way.
Maddie knows that she should say something to Peggy about stopping the teasing, but Maddie is afraid that Peggy will start making fun of her instead!When Wanda and her family suddenly move away, Maddie feels awful that she never had a chance to apologize to her and must deal with her feelings of guilt and shame over her behavior.This is a quick read that will leave the reader thinking long after the story ends.
Peggy and Maddie, two girls from the novel are the first to notice Wanda Petronski’s, the main character's absence because she’d made them late for school.
Mostly, the girls in class didn’t notice her: they noticed her outside of class, on the way to school, and in the yard during recess.
All the girls talked to her, or at her, but Wanda didn’t have any friends..
It’s always important to be kind, and sometimes necessary to remind children and adults how their words and actions can affect others.
And while actions can never be reversed, it’s never too late to make a change.
Yah, bullying ternyata tak mengenal waktu dan masa. Tentang Wanda yang selalu dicemooh teman temannya karena Wanda mengaku memiliki seratus dress, tapi temannya ngga ada satupun yang percaya. Lha tiap ke sekolah, bajunya Wanda itu itu mulu. Mana seratus buah yang ia ceritakan?Sampai kemudian Wanda ngga masuk sekolah selama berhari hari, dan guru kelas mereka memberitahu bahwa Wanda dan keluarganya telah pindah.Buku ini diceritakan dari sudut pandang Maggie, teman sekolah yang juga pernah membully Wanda tapi ia terus dihantui rasa bersalah dalam dirinya.Cerita yang ringan, tapi bagus pesan moralnya..
This book still brings tears to my eyes, I don't care how old you are, everyone needs to read this! The message is so important and powerful.
Great way to introduce children to the concept of empathy, and it’s an interesting story too. I first read it in elementary school and it’s really stuck with me.
This book makes me a little emotional about my childhood because it's a book that I loved during childhood.
It's both a sad and beautiful book.The story is about a little girl who doesn't really have any friends and who wears the same blue dress to school every day.
She ends up leaving school because of being ridiculed.
I do remember wishing every girl in my class would read this book and take it to heart.
Honestly, I think this book should be required reading for every child.
And I think it should be not only read but discussed.

Alice and I read this over a few evenings. I really like the character Maddie and how she explored here feelings in regards to Wanda Petronski getting bullied. I do wish there'd been a little bit more information about Wanda. This was still a good book to read together. A little dated, but the story is still relevant.
I remember being 9 and having a very sad day (most likely feeling mopey for no good reason lol) and I read this book in one sitting and just cried it all out. I think that's why it's stuck in my head for such a long time--it was one of the first purely cathartic reading experiences for me.
This wonderful book shows that those who stand by while someone is being bullied need to speak up. Maddie learns this lesson in a bittersweet way.
A sweet story, just as relevant now as ever, about kindness toward people who are different than you, and being brave enough to stand up, even to your friends, when a behavior pricks your conscience. This shorter chapter book would be a great read aloud.
Great lesson: staying silent as a bystander to bullying is just as harmful as saying the mean words out loud.
This book is very cute. I love the illustrations.
This 1945 Newbery honor publication packs a powerful message in a mere 81 pages.
Perfectly written and illustrated, there was no need for the author to continue; she was able to send a clear, strong, effective message without exaggerated hyperbole.Written in 1944, as Europe was reeling from the awful horror of mans inhumanity to man, Eleanor Estes wrote a heart-wrenching book of the evil pursuit and bullying of a small, poor, Polish American immigrant child.Motherless, quiet, shy Wanda Petronski lived with her father and brother in a shabby, but clean shack on the wrong side of the tracks of small town USA.Wanda's foreign sounding, unfamiliar name and the fact that she wears the same blue dress to school each day made her the brunt of cruelty from nasty, insensitive classmates.In particular two girls, Peggy who has lots and Maddie who has little, are the most cruel.
Summary: This chapter book tells of a fictional story that was based on a real life childhood experience of the author.
It tells of how a young Polish girl was taunted by two other girls because she claimed to have 100 dresses even though she wore the exact same shabby blue one every day.
Good for late early to early transitional readers for guided or shared reading.
Also a good example of how fiction can be used for moral lesson teaching.
Wanda is a girl that wears the same faded blue dress everyday to school.
One morning, Wanda does not show up at school and the reason why will have a significant impact on her class.I have been looking for a good children's book for a while and my search lead to this title.
A truly wonderful choice.
Originally published over seventy years ago this book might be aimed at children but its a great read for all.
Eleanor Estes cover a range of topics from bullying to the power of imagination and it's no wonder how it has survived the test of time.
They have many pretty dresses, and Wanda wears the same faded dress to school every day.
When she tells the girls she has 100 dresses, she is jeered at and mocked.
But Wanda DOES have 100 dresses, and when the girls learn the truth behind her story, they get an eye opening lesson on prejudice.This is a simple story, simply told.
But change a few details, and it is a story that is (sadly) as relevant today as it was when it was written.Every child should read this in school and every class should discuss this book.
