https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101880.In_a_Different_Voice
I think human psychology is a much more fractured and varied set of phenomena than this and that the landscape of large-scale generalizations about gender traits (though sometimes useful if done carefully and based on solid empirical findings) is an area to tread very cautiously through.
Peer-review is one of the things that separates the rigor and integrity of science from the wild guessing games of other styles of inquiry.This book essentially trades some negative over-generalizations about women for flattering ones--and visa-versa for males.
I will start off by noting that of course this book is dated and eminently critique-able in a number of ways: it's binary, essentialist, complementarist, heteronormative, prescribes a normative view of psychological development that may do damage to any number of abnormal subjects, blinded by whiteness, inadequately class-conscious, generally lacking in intersectionality, rooted in standpoint epistemology, etc....BUT.
It is also profoundly generative and important, and it strongly resonated with me.
Gilligan na podstawie własnych badań proponuje alternatywny model rozwoju moralnego, oparty na etyce troski i sieci relacji, a więc model przystający do rzeczywistej moralności przejawianej przez kobiety, których decyzje nie mieszczą się w układzie abstrakcyjnych praw i zasad etycznych, przez co uznawane są za niemoralne.
Zgodnie z modelem Gilligan również przeprowadzenie aborcji w określonych warunkach (innych niż gwałt i groźba śmierci kobiety!) jest rozwiązaniem etycznie akceptowalnym.Już w tym momencie publikacja staje się rewolucyjna, ale badaczka idzie jeszcze dalej, wskazując na potencjalną autodestruktywność etyki troski, która prowadzi do samo poświęcenia kobiet, gloryfikowanego w kulturze zachodniej jako najwspanialsza kobieca cnota, czy też nawet jedyna wartość kobiety: wyrzeczenie się siebie, aby służyć innym (bogu, mężczyznom).
gilligan's central point (and be aware, this book is about thirty years old and we're talking in broad generalizations that do not apply to everyone) is that the societal paths of development for men and women differ in that men develop along a path measured by individualism and absolute justice while women develop along a path of connectivity.
the discrepancy arises in that our societal systems measure women by the same standards as men.
women do not develop the skills to navigate between their internal value systems that emphasize relationships and collective success and their external value systems that emphasize absolute morality and individual success.

This is a must for all women (and men....) as it gives a very clear insight in how much we misunderstand ourselves, being so trained to use male measurements and fit into a male world.
Every page was a revelation to me, often painful and shocking in its obvious simplicity, about how stunted our understanding of ourselves is, how much we mirror ourselves to a male world, how much we cover up who we really are, try to cope and haven't really taken charge of our own development yet.
It leaves big questions with me as to where to go next as women...
Super interesting--probably a bit outdated and maybe even overturned? It was very academic, but such an important analysis.
I was more on board with her argument that "maturity" should include incorporation of both "rights" and "care" positions, where men became more aware of the value of attachment and women learned to include themselves in the ethics of care (i.e. be able to attend to themselves as well as to others).
BUT: have read Arlie Hochschild (and, from a different point of view, Jeanne Boydston's Home and Work) and having thought about emotional labor, I see a big gaping hole there: women continue to be responsible (a word used over and over and over again) for "care" and for maintaining relationships.
Not considering the actions/labor involved in "care" seems to keep women in the position of always being responsible for emotional labor.
This track Gilligan discovered she calls the ethics of Care.I highly recommend this book for anyone doing any sort of research and in particular as an introduction to the pitfalls of not being aware of one's own and one's cultural expectations and presuppositions.
After reading Carol Gilligan's novel, Kyra, and loving her female characters, I figured it was finally time to take this book off my shelf and actually read it.
As so often happens, it was the perfect book to read at this point in my life.
I enjoyed the perspective her research provides of how differently girls develop than boys.
Her thoughts and research help for a woman to not feel so out of touch, but rather more in tune to her own ways of seeing the world, knowing those ways are not unusual.
I am inclined to agree with many of the other reviewers in that Gilligan's findings are liberating but a bit shakey because of the small sample she uses to perform her research and for the gravity of the issues she researched such as abortion.
While I will cite her work in my own thesis because my professor likes her, I'm not sure that I agree with everything she says.
This is a quick read and it tends to be repetitive and a reader could get the crux of the issue by reading the last chapter.
A quick read and highly recommended.
This book is Gilligan's response to years of academic study of moral development that had "just happened" to focus solely on males.
Her critique is devastating and it is almost unbelievable that so much work was done with such a clear gender bias.
Gilligan sets out a very believable "parallel path" of women's development that, satisfyingly, converges toward the same major issues that men struggle with, but from a different direction.
I always like reading books with extensive oral interviews with "regular people", where much of the author's work is simply to allow people to speak for themselves.
As someone who now studies normative ethics, or the framework for values within morality, the author presents a practical and logical picture of variables which influence morality. Specifically, the author noted that by restricting the female voice, unwittingly perpetuated a male-voice civilization, which becomes a male perspective generalized to both male and female gender. Furthermore, despite differences between men and women, the author noted that it is not just about those differences, but differences in reality and truth which are matters of human relations. There are many takeaways from this book.
It's hard to believe this book was written in 1982, and hard to believe I missed it then. I've known about Carol Gilligan regardless, but never went to the source to read her directly. All these years later, the book still offers invaluable insight about women, our differences in thinking, communication, values, and behavior. But she also sheds light on the history of being measured against men - and the fallacy of having men be the barometer of women's innate strengths. Excellent book, clearly written, making a great deal of sociological and psychological study completely accessible to the layperson.
This book was a game changer for my career. As a young psychologist, I knew the famous theories didn't always fit but I didn't understand why. When I read this book, the lights came on. Over the years there have been significant issues raised about Gilligan's research. However, the fact remains, women do view the world differently than men (why is a different question) and this book lead the way in pushing researchers to consider the differences.
Honestly speaking, it is kind of difficult to review a psychology book that deals with gender to me. I was advised by someone to read this, and while I found some parts to be interesting, I can think of quite a few people who would completely rip on it. At the same time, there are some people who would really like it.This is something that you would have to read and decide what you think for yourself. I do not feel confident enough to rate this book properly.
I picked this book up in the mid 1980s and found it really difficult to read. The first chapter is definitely the hardest. It is not a novel - it is a feminist book on psychology.I kept the book on my bookshelf (still have it) and picked it up and put it down many times until I was ready and able to get through it.So appreciate this work on behalf of women.And Gilligan was courageous to frame her theory within the moral dilemma of deciding whether to have an abortion or not.
I read this my sophomore year of high school, but I remember that it really made me think. I have the book and will go back and read it sometime . . . maybe when I have a daughter. I'm not sure that I agreed with everything from the perspective of being a girl, but there were some things that she expressed that I realized, "yeah, that has happened to me as I've grown up."
This book is arguably the most influential book in the field of female psychology. Every page brings knowing nodding..
The first REAL study of the differences between males and females that does not have an ax to grind - it doesn't try to justify one sex above another.
I read this in college in a women's studies course. It changed my life and it also helped me get out of a very verbally abusive relationship my first marriage.
When this book came out in 1982 it was regarded as an epoch-making feminist study. It has since been in large part sidelined, and the author has shown a seeming reluctance to pursue the promising theses she then proposed.In a Different Voice brings out woman's distinctive mode of personal fulfillment. Its main premiss is that 20th century psychological reflection and investigation, in measuring human maturity, has followed standards (such as capacity for autonomous thinking, clear decision-maki
Its main premiss is that 20th century psychological reflection and investigation, in measuring human maturity, has followed standards (such as capacity for autonomous thinking, clear decision-making, responsible action), which tend to leave women always in second place: "these stereotypes reflect a conception of adulthood that is itself out of balance, favoring the separateness of the individual self over connection to others, and leaning more toward an autonomous life of work than toward the interdependence of love and care" (17).
I don't think you can take something that you feel is morally wrong because the situation makes it right and put the two together.
Rather, the chair of the psych dept lent me her copy and it blew my mind in so many domains - from abstract politics to concrete conflicts in my own life - they all related to these complimentary - yet incomplete on their own - systems of morality: the feminine ethic of responsibilities & the masculine ethic of rights.I'm in the process of trying to get my fox news grandmother to read it because honestly I don't see how she couldn't appreciate it from her lifetime of perspective as a woman with responsibilities.
Maybe she'll grow a distaste for fox news after reading the book?
Not sure if it was awful or just severely out of date, but even the studies she point to in order to highlights differences between the genders mainly use tiny sample sizes, aren't double-blind in any way, and are anecdotal more than scientific. My aunt suggested I read this as a 'classic' on gender differences, but perhaps I was just raised differently, because I didn't identify with the feelings that any of these women claimed.
I actually read this in graduate school. However, I am cheating and adding it to this year's books.
Had a huge impact on me as a teacher
Brought up some really good points.
Highly recommended. Very insightful book on the ways women/men reason differently. I only wish it was shorter because at some point it feels like it was going on and on about the same things forever.
Get on his good side or he’ll chop it off!”) By taking on the qualities of their fathers, boys resolve their Oedipus complex and develop strong superegos.Girls also go through the Oedipus complex, right down to desiring their mothers.
But, Freud argued, how can they act on this desire if they don’t have a penis?
Kohlberg’s theory doesn’t argue that women are less moral than men, but it turns out that women are less likely to reach Kohlberg’s final stage of moral development.
I know she comes from a feminist place and that her intention is not to create a theory that further serves to oppress women, as she recognizes that "...power cements dominance and subordination, and oppression is reationalized by theories that 'explain' the need for its continuation" (168).
Further, she admits the limitations of her research and entreats other psychologists to "...the task of sorting out the different variables of culture, time, occasion, and gender" (126).
Now, we can pay attention to the multiplicity of voices that claim themselves as women while continuing to include them in the catagories of "adult" and "person."
