https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/261004.Eyeless_in_Gaza
That was the chief difference between literature and life.
In books, the proportion of exceptional to commonplace people is high; in reality, very low.Practically bed ridden, incapacitated and unable to sleep I completed this chewy hulk of a novel in 24 hours.
Overflowing with ideas, Eyeless asks about Action: what is one to do?
Anthony, one of the novels chief characters remains preoccupied with freedom throughout his life.
The narrative rotates between 5 or so timelines and flips back to each periodically, like Moloch gleefully dealing Texas Hold'em.
Others are debauched or likewise stalwarts in various ideologies.
Don't try to fuck people over.
Eyeless in Gaza was one of the most profound books I've ever read. After reading it I immediately wanted to read it again. I wanted to sleep with the book under my pillow...but it was a book I checked out of the library, so naturally I was concerned with it being a health risk so close to my face.
Eyeless in Gaza is, among other things, a novel of ideas.
Eyeless in Gaza is at the same time a novel of ideas and a novel with developed characters and a story.
Huxley is an interesting thinker, and I enjoyed reading this one.Don’t get me wrong, it is not that I had problems following the story.
As I already stressed, I loved reading all those philosophical passages, but maybe this novel would have profited by being just a little bit shorter?
Something like minus 50 pages and Eyeless in Gaza would perhaps have been much easier to read.
It was Samson who fought the Philistines, whose 'nazirite' locks were lost due to female duplicity and resulting in his enslavement and his condition of being 'eyeless in Gaza'.Along with Hesse, Huxley was required reading back in my teenage years, after all, there he was on the cover of Sgt Pepper.
Each chapter hops backwards and forwards across the first few decades of the twentieth century, continually introducing characters, school friends, family and lovers.There are echoes of autobiographical detail written into some characters, the suicide of Brian Foxe seems to be an exorcism of Huxley's own brother Trevenan, and the main character Anthony Beavis suffers his mother's death, like Huxley himself.
It's a shame that Huxley is almost solely noted for his rather simplistic Brave New World, when the brilliance of half forgotten works like Point Counter Point & Eyeless in Gaza are covered by their years as though stone locked into the times they were written, away from todays readers.
This I believe, gives hint at the seemingly random blocks of experience forming the chapters of small stories and giving insights into the characters as each new random time frame is relived.
Cum spuneam, pe mine m-a prins mai mult in partea a doua, cind deja am reusit sa fac multe dintre legaturi.Romanul se concentreaza pe viata lui Anthony Beavis si a cercului sau de prieteni din scoala generala, trecuti prin Eton si apoi Oxford, deci intelectuali din stratul superior al societatii: Brian, Hugh,Mark.
In plus, Mary Amberley, care devine la un moment dat un soi de marchiza de Merteuil si din jocurile si pariurile careia se naste unul dintre cele mai dramatice momente ale romanului - sinuciderea lui Brian.
Fiica ei, Helen, cu care Anthony are o relatie esuata, e unul din personajele cele mai interesante si consistente.
The novel simultaneously weaves together 3 separate story timelines showing how his childhood shapes the mistakes of his adolescents and the cushion his sardonic personality provides in adulthood.Ultimately I think this is a novel about one trying to engage their real self and transcend their mistakes and fears by finding meaning in a higher power.
For Huxley that was mysticism and pacifism right before WWII broke out.The text is quite often cerebral and cynical but other times is beautifully poetic and optimistic.
I can hardly believe this is same author who wrote Brave New World.
We also have a few episodes narrated through different focalizers, such as Brian Foxe and Anthony’s on-off love interest, the angry, mercurial Helen Ledwidge, née Amberley, who was, for me, the standout character of the novel.
I think the point of it is to try to capture Anthony’s state as the novel closes, morally abject and blind in some ways, but at the beginning of an upwards curve (into Huxley’s own mysticism and pacifism).
Whereas what I was trying to do was to avoid occasions for emphasizing individual separateness through sensuality.
Hate, anger, ambition explicitly deny human unity; lust and greed do the same indirectly and by implication - by insisting exclusively on particular individual experiences and in the case of lust, using other people merely as a means for obtaining such experiences...
lust is still incompatible with pacifism; be made compatible only when it ceases to be an end in itself and becomes a means towards the unification through love of two separate individuals.
The past and the present are psychologically and physically bound…“The snapshots had become almost as dim as memories.
But fashion, as he peered at the brown phantom, fashion is a topiary art.”On the whole Eyeless in Gaza is about the power of memory… You wish to forget your past errors but your memory doesn’t let you go… You desire to turn your back on the faux pas of your youth but your memory keeps torturing you and you remain in thrall to the past… And in the end your recollections of the past make you change your ways in the present.
Some days have several chapters - a description of a party in 1926 occupies six of them - and the main concentration is on the period from autumn 1932 to spring 1935, which sees Beavis involved in an uprising in Central America and in public speaking for the pacifist movement.An oblique connection is made between the events of the novel and the First World War. One of the most important sequences of events, which leads up to the suicide of one of Beavis' closest friends, takes place in July 1914 between the assassination of Archduke Ferdinand and the declaration of war on Serbia by the Austro-Hungarian Empire.
I was very surprised by Eyeless in Gaza.
From the books that Huxley is well know for, I was expecting a dystopian commentary involving various chemical mind-states.
What I got was a deep inquiry into the nature of man through the telling of various social circumstances of a fictional British bourgeois circle in the early 1900s.
Huxley treads the line of being moralistic without being overbearing quite well.
While he clearly has an agenda which settles in a Buddhist inspired active pacifism, he tells the story quite well, with well written and contrasting characters that made me inquisitive and inspired until the very end.
It is his inability to express this love which prevents him from achieving happiness in his only relationship.Outside of these two, there is an interesting, if not greatly flawed, array of characters who pop in and out of the story.
Several outcomes are mentioned early on in the novel, but readers don’t find out the intimate details or what decisions the characters made until the very end.If there is a central plot in the novel, then it is one of Anthony overcoming his shyness and aversion to an involvement with reality.
What Anthony ultimately discovers, though, is that he must “cultivate the difficult art of loving people” to achieve the true pacifism he advocates.
I almost didn't read this, looking through unread books that I thought I might never start.
Central to his adult life is an early love affair with an older woman, an affair that has consequences in the lives of his friends as much as in his own.
School, university, love and loss, mistakes and adventures all play their part in the novel.
Occasional philosophical asides reminded me of Iris Murdoch in part, and just like her books, showed that novels which on the surface are about human relationships, can also make us think about the bigger things in life.
A difficult read which attempts to examine the whole of human behavior with an ever-present underlying theme: The only outcome of violence is more violence and even though love often causes confusion, disorientation, heart-break, and endless guilt, it is the only possible way to move forward.
Also, there may be times when a seemingly pointless exchange between characters brings you to tears of boredom, but hang on, there are so many worthwhile descriptions, so many thoughtful observations that by the time you reach the last page, enlightenment will be the strongest lingering emotion, leaving the brief frustration a faded memory.
This book delves into and dissects both social issues and conflicts of the human psyche through engaging dialogue and monologues.
Reading Eyeless in Gaza feels like peering into the genius mind of Huxley himself.
This book is not one which you can easily pick up, read a few pages, then set down and come back to a couple of days later.
Certainly this book is not for everyone, but if you are an active and involved reader who can enjoy a book more for its intellectual content rather than just its storyline, then I'm sure you will very much enjoy this read.
Anthony, Helen, Brian, and Mary Amberley began to haunt my paintings and my songs that summer before Sophomore year..
Nothing else I read seemed to compare.I read Eyeless in Gaza again after graduation, this time beginning to understand the sadder sides of Helen and Mary Amberley- the grotesque depths of Anthony, and the nervous religious nature of Brian.
I read it again quickly, before starting graduate school, the pages starting to crinkle- because even when I knew what the next line was, I always found something new in it- and in Anthony's redemption, rather than Helen's naivete, this time, I saw myself.
Ovid's quote brings it somewhat into focus, just in time for Huxley to smudge a blurry line across the vista.
Vista which may have allowed for better interpretation, but only followed worse.
During a performance at the Lincoln Center, Jason Isbell related his early songwriting influences and the familial origins of most of those songs.
Such origins which brought upon him some degree of rancor stemming from the intimate and personal nature of those refrains, much like Huxley's family and friends upon publication of Eyeless in Gaza.
Rancor and upset familiar units aside, art that stays and creates new responses is art worth one's time.
"I've had a queer feeling that I'm not really there..."Huxley has some things to communicate to us about pacifism and human nature and some other stuff.
But by the end he does so with such vehemence it's as if you're reading a different book altogether.
Or more likely I only woke up to the message closer to the end.
Anyways, his embarrassing descriptive precision makes for a sumptuous read.
'That was the chief difference between literature and life.
In books, the proportion of exceptional to commonplace people is high; in reality, very low."Books are opium," said Mark."Precisely."'
...although the last chapter seems somehow from another book (something like "I do not truly believe this, but this is where the writing brought me")... It is about how people change, how they turn to be totally and unexpectedly different from what they considered their true nature... It is very intelligently built, bringing past events in the present, there are no corny characters, archetypes are absent (I wouldn't think of the doctor as archetype, as long as one may trace down his evolution), the charaters are alive and kicking...
Huxley's first real foray into the mysticism that would become the underlying theme in his later works. A real turning point in his career in which he went from popular author to cultural curator, providing piercing insight into a variety of topics. Many of predictions including "the problem of happiness" have been realized. As scary as that is, Huxely always held out hope for the individual despite the hopelessness of society.
As I mentioned, the end of the book is by far the most powerful section to me as Huxley, and the characters, try to make some sense of their lives and the experiences that have lead them to this point.
The letter is wonderful though and can probably justify his whole inclusion as it’s not something Brian, Anthony or Helen could really say:“‘Midsummer Day, Helen.
You’ve only been in the world for about seven thousand days altogether; and one has got to have lived through at least ten thousand before one begins to realize there aren’t an indefinite number of them and you can’t do exactly what you want with them.
The friend, Brian Foxworthy becomes extreme about being exactly the perfect person his mother most wants and in so doing becomes the victim of Anthony’s casual disinterestedness and preference for compromise and accommodation.By seeing Anthony in time slices assembled in thematic rather than temporal sequence Huxley maneuvers the reader from some level of sympathy to a full agreement with Anthony’s dissatisfaction with himself.
This is the central conflict of the plot and upon its resolution hangs the pleasure in; or disappointment in the book.There are some wonderfully deep thoughtful quotations and scholarly essays.
I like being treated like an intelligent person, but this goes beyond that.Having built the book on the assumption that we are thoughtful and well read, the resolution did not work for me.
Anthony, our intellectually gifted protagonist, has the problem of not believing in any intrinsic quality in another being, or, as he put it, in personality -- everything is a construct, and we are state machines, influenced by external factors to perform this or that action.
Ultimately, I feel for this book because of the flicker of hope at the close, for an existence not driven by impulses of vanity, lust, a sense of entitlement from one's intellectual gifts.
If Anthony is to be redeemed, it will be through his attempt at existence that strives towards a core of meaning.
"Finding Anthony Beavis"Just because I'd read "Brave New World" when I was in high school didn't mean I knew Aldous Huxley's work, so I recently read EYELESS IN GAZA.
Though I had no idea what the title meant, I found a strong character study of an indecisive man, a flawed character whose weaknesses lead directly to the demise of his best friend.
In the end, influenced by a doctor with the values of positive pacifism and humanity, perhaps akin to Buddhist ideas, Anthony comes to enlightenment.EYELESS IN GAZA is above all a book of philosophy, masquerading quite successfully as fiction.
But the basis of their relationship was what really led to this fallout, and his personality and past relationships along with her personality and past relationships that led to them having this particular type of relationship.Huxley does an excellent job at showing even the most despicable characters as nothing more malignant than the main actor in their own plays.
His solution is pacifism – treating all men with dignity and showing them kindness and love.
Written in the lead up to WW2, context plays a big part, and the philosophy of pacifism is especially poignant.
Some books can be read in large chunks and some cannot.
Wanting to meet a book club deadline, I read this in daily 50 page chunks.
The book club discussion added some context so that I had a better grasp of what the author was trying to accomplish and I award him an "A" for effort.
In the end, this will probably be the last of this author I read as I also did not enjoy Brave New World for different reasons.
This is the third novel I've read by Huxley and perhaps his best out of those three (Brave New World , Island).
The last chapter was very captivating, it shows you how mind stretching Huxley writing is (he hadn't even had his first psychedelic experience before writing it, I had to check) and ends a great novel on a glorious high .
The book has left me, like Island, with a yearning to learn more of the human condition and how and why society is shaped the way it is.
Ok book.
Good description of what I like to call the hot wanker.
A woman who has previously been or is married and who all of a sudden discovers her capability to stuff other people over, but has an indignant and ironic set of morals at the same time (probably instilled by some authoritarian father).
Horrible character that rage doesnt even suffer.
That's why the word wanker is suitable!And his character likes the pain and defeat of it all that he keeps associating with her...so weird I really dont understand.Is she hot, or is she a wanker?
He can't tell.I'm reading this thinking "goddamn, she's a hot wanker, why do you fall for it everytime!
This book has some very important stuff to say and I wanted to like it better than I did. Philosophically, Huxley was a very admirable individual. But, even though he lived well past the midpoint of the 20th century. And even though he lived much of his life outside England. His writing never did seem to transcend the early 20th century upper middle class British intellectual niche that he was born into. The reader is advised to pay very close attention to the dates at the head of each chapter. The narrative skips dizzily back and forth in time.
