https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51738.Just_Listen
"The best way out is always through." This book kept me thinking...How many times did you answer to the question "how are you" with just "fine", or "I’m ok"?How many times did you feel like your heart was breaking but you couldn't make it right?How many of your dark, inside secrets have made your heart break a little bit more every day?How many times did you need help but you didn't know how to ask for it?How many people tried to be part of your life, but you kept them in dark?How many times whe

I might be the only person who's not looking forward to her new book.UPDATE May 2015: I thought it was especially interesting, seeing as I had previously written this review, that I recently received what was purported to be a "personal letter" from Sarah Dessen.
Does she want to discuss how I arrived at my conclusions?), which later turned to laughter as I realized that it was really an advertisement for her new book,  Saint Anything .
The one thing (among many others) that struck me the most was Owen's policy of always saying the truth.
After reading this I always feel a little more conscious of what exactly I'm saying.Everytime I read this book I still laugh at the same parts, still anticipate certain scenes, and still cringe at the heavy moments.
Annabel comes to know that she really was never alone as she felt because in reality she was always only a hand reach away from people that are willing to just listen.When this song plays I always remember this book.
Many of my friends told me that it was their favourite Dessen book (mine is The Truth About Forever) and I decided that it was time I read it.Sarah Dessen's books are always the same: it's a typical American chick lit novel.
The only things I could criticise is the rather plain main character and her father.
He should man up.There are a few things you should know before you go into this book.
But in my opinion Sarah Dessen handled them extremely well and I am again surprised that she dared to bring so much heaviness and depth to this novel.
4.5 stars I really, really liked this book. I definitely feel for Annabel and her family... I loved how big a part music had in this story as well as friendship. This book shows the importance of family and friends, speaking up for yourself, and of course listening to those around you. This was my first Sarah Dessen book and I'd definitely love to read another!
Annabel Green lives in a glass house - literally.
But even inside of the glass house that her father built, she realizes that it is easy to hide secrets.
It is easy to hide the fact that her mother has become a different person since her grandmother’s death.
That her oldest sister has moved away, leaving a gaping hole in the family.It is easy to hide the fact that her other sister is suffering from an eating disorder that her parents choose to dismiss until it’s almost too late.
Like her family, Annabel also has secrets to hide.
But why is Annabel Green so keen on hiding from her friends and family?
Together, Annabel and he are dubbed as Beauty and the Beast but I love that they both don’t care, especially Owen who has this admirable, refreshing character and personality.
I love that the story is rich in themes especially on family, how it portrays both the dark and bright side of every family, how every individual member sometimes goes through something so dark but that is what family is for, to be there for you no matter what.
I also love the individual stories of Annabel and her sisters that put so much meaning and layers in the story contributing to this one whole meaningful theme that resonated throughout the novel.
Her family is so consumed with Whitney's eating disorder, with Kirsten's college life far away in New York, with keeping everything under control that Annabel doesn't tell them what's happened--the things that are still happening every day she goes to school just dreading the day.
The characters of Kirsten and Whitney are complicated and complex, and I have to admit that there's a part near the end of the book in which the sisters come together that had me crying like a baby.
Half way trough this book, I realized that I was scared.
Scared because it took me back to the place in my mind which I don't have any dessire to go back - ever again!
I used to have a "friend" like Sophie, I had a eating disorder when I was senior, there was "owen" who helped me to wake up (but, he was just a friend).
I used to stop eating when things in my life were out of my control and it gave me false sense of some kind od meaning, stability.
I'd seen so much about Sarah Dessen and her books but I never got around to reading one of her books until a friend gave me Just Listen.
I love how Just Listen focused a lot on family.
Not a lot of YA books include family has a main theme but Just Listen did.
I love development in teenage characters and Sarah Dessen is amazing at it with this book.Owen was such an amazingly well written character.
I wish more male characters were like Owen.Overall, I loved this book so much.
Annabel, however, refuses to tell the truth of what caused her life to come to this.Oh, I could dedicate this whole review just to Owen, but I won't.I promise!They way Annabel and Owen developed was really interesting, it wasn't insta-love and it wasn't like they were destined to be with each other.
It is talent when you make the reader (someone like me), love your characters with all my heart and the romance, ohhhhh~~~ the romance *swoons* I think I died reading it.I must say there was a lot of reflecting back to the past in this book, but I think Sarah Dessen did a awesome job at it.
(even the best of my recollection is not a very good recollection.)anyway.
that's why it seemed a good place to start on the Massive Sarah Dessen-Centered Reread Bonanza of 2018.
i do not keep my promises.this was exactly what i wanted, and also a lot more than i'd bargained for???
i am the worst ever, so i'd forgotten that sarah dessen delivers a hell of a lot more than sweet, fluffy love stories.
your fave could never.so even though it wasn't perfect (long, v dramatic, semi-flat characters, fairly f*cking repetitive)........it was pretty damn good.bottom line: DESSEN REREAD OFF TO A GOOD START.
While this book is a work of fiction, you truly had to suspend all disbelief in order to accept the premise that Annabel, a beautiful high school girl who has been modeling her whole life, who has two older sisters who were also models, and who comes from an affluent family, would be shunned by her entire school after a supposed incident with her best friend's boyfriend.
By the way, I'm not going to say anything about Sophie because she was horrible.Bottom Line: I like Sarah Dessen's writing style, but this book wasn't great.
I loved it and continued to look for more book by Sarah Dessen!
Which is why I decided to read this before the rest of my Sarah Dessen books.
I am happy to say that I enjoyed it!The book begins with Annabel watching a commercial she was in.
After the argument with Sophie and avoiding everyone in school she's not sure what she'll find when she reaches school.When Annabel reaches school she sits in her car for a few minutes just to think everything through.
Apparently Emily is choosing to sit with Sophie even though Annabel was friends with her first.
Owen also gets Annabel to be honest with everything she has to say.
----------Rereading this because I miss the old days of contemporary YA.Also my old review is so surly haha.----------2010 ReviewGirl With Annoying Name goes through traumatic experience and despite having a family and home life that is maybe not perfect, but good enough that she should have no problem opening up and solving her problems in five minutes, she withdraws into herself and makes her own life a living hell until she meets Boy With Annoying Name who causes her to have a revelation and the ending is happy.
Sophie is the most popular girl and right now she doesn't like Annabel, so neither does anyone else.
It also tackled about eating disorder and sexual assault, both topics were handled well and it's impressive.Annabel Greene has been modeling since she's a kid just like her older siblings Kirsten and Whitney.
With Whitney's eating disorder (Anorexia), her friendships fall out after a traumatic incident and the pressure of modeling, Annabel kept her feelings to herself.
Though Owen has a bizarre taste in music, he and Annabel got along pretty well.
He helped her find the courage to be herself and whatever bothers her, he's willing to listen to her story.
Like songs, everyone has their own story and it's about learning to listen without judgment.
I loved Owen, but even he wasn't enough to save this boring and anti-climactic story.
Sigh.Frankly, the same thing happened with her other book I read-it was going so well and then the author just veers the story completely away from what I would have done and, frankly, it's obviously a case of 'this author just isn't for me'.Pretty writing, albeit a bit stale, and fleshed out characters you want to know more about...I just couldn't love this story.
When things finally started to get interesting she ran away.
Better luck next time...though, it probably won't be a book by this author.For more of my reviews, please visit:
Annabelle has spent her entire summer sequestered after an incident at a end-of-school party in which she was humiliated in front of all her friends.
Her best friend is no longer speaking to her, and we find out in progressive flashblack clips what exactly happened.
Before Annabelle can get too lonely, she meets fellow social outcast Owen who teaches her the virtues of honesty and gives her the confidence to come clean about her secrets.
If this storyline sounds familiar, it's because "Just Listen" is extraordinarily similar to Laurie Halse Anderson's "Speak", except that the characters in "Just Listen" are one-dimensional and cliche.
Annabelle comes across as incredibly passive and weak.
It's incredibly sad, but I'm glad it gets better.Having read two or three of Dessen's novels, I was expecting this one to be fluffy, with romance and one or two small issues.
I loved this book's characters and how the good ones reacted to Annabel's story.
I now realize there's no way to always be nice, so I'm trying to get better, just like Annabel.All of Dessen's books have one similarity, it's that they all have great families.
This book isn't just about a love story, or about a traumatic experience, it's about every single part of Annabel's life, including her family.
Her books seemed like the kind I wanted to stay as far away from as possible.But in reality Just Listen shocked me - it was a deeply meaningful contemporary with a poignant, realistic romance.
I'm impressed when a YA book even mentions the main character's parents, let alone gives them in-depth personalities.
This book was nothing like the sugar-coated Morgan Matson romance I expected - which isn't a bad thing, if you're in the mood for something light and fluffy - but turned out to be a thoughtful, character-driven novel I grew to love.
actual rating: 4,5 stars
She’s got a troubled past to explain her behavior, and Annabel even relates stories from their friendship that offer insight into how Sophie’s behavior hurt her with just as many people as it helped her with - rather than just showing her as some sort of goddess that everyone in the school is unable to resist, which is a trope that I HATE in YA contemporaries.There isn’t really anything to say on anyone else, but I do always love the fact that Sarah throws in a few characters from her other books here and there (I won’t tell you who cameos in this one – you’ll have to read it and see!).CATALYSTS ➳➳There are a few different catalysts for action in this book (like Whitney's ED, or Owen's anger management issues, or Annabel's modeling), but the most important and primary one is the trauma that happened to Annabel.
Desi m-am lungit cu cititul acestei carti destul de mult...si asta nu pentru ca nu mi-ar fi placut cartea, ci pentru ca nu prea am avut chef de citit... Vreau sa va spun ca este o carte frumoasa, plina de trairi intense! Ceea ce poate fi ca o concluzie este casa de sticla..unde din afara vezi o familie normala, unita si fericita; dar daca esti in interior, realizezi ca fiecare are problemele si secretele sale, si încearcă sa le faca fata in felul propriu!Recenzia mea completa o găsiți aici:https://justreadingmybooks.wordpress....
“Don't think or judge, just listen.”  Another one of my favorites from Sarah Dessen, I love her books. My goal is to finish reading all her books and catch up on this train. I know I'm behind in Throne of Glass but I'll catch up ASAP! Anyway, I really enjoyed this book. The other book I read from Sarah Dessen is Saint Anything and I just loved that book so much.  “I mean, to me, freaking out is different. More of a running away, not telling anyone what's wrong, slowly simmering until you burst
Another one of my favorites from Sarah Dessen, I love her books.
My goal is to finish reading all her books and catch up on this train.
The other book I read from Sarah Dessen is Saint Anything and I just loved that book so much.
Okay, I'm getting off topic, anyway, I also loved the way both of these characters would argue about music.
Although Annabel was the main character, it wasn't only about her, there were so many side stories and in the end, they all linked together and I loved that.
I highly recommend this book, if you read any Sarah Dessen book.
Contrary to what you might think at first glance, this is not a love story.
This is a story about family, about how important it is to speak up and at the same time, to listen to others.
It's about how we hide the truth a lot of time, for different reasons, either to protect others, or because we consider our problems to not be as important as everyone else's.
About how we shouldn't think or judge sometimes, we should just listen.I saw a lot of myself in Annabel.
I loved that this was a story about how family can help, how family can heal and support its members.
My head has been emerged in one literary world after another my whole life, but those words have only come out of my mouth a hand full of times about a novel.
This story just wrapped itself around by head, heart, and everything I am and held on for dear life.
Those messages settled right in to my heart and pushed me to move, change, talk, and listen.
I wish everyone could find and hold on to an Owen in life!
There’s a conversation somewhere in the middle of the book that struck me,"Interesting," he said, "is not a word.""Since when?""It's a placeholder.
Something you use when you don't want to say something else." He leaned a little closer to me.
You can say whatever you want.
I plodded along though and was almost positive I would feel the same way for the whole book.
I hate and love said fact.
I hate it because why did eureka moments come at the heels of something he said?
But I also loved that there were any eureka moments at all.
4.5 stars~This book was SO GOOD.
I have to say guys, I'm falling in love with Sarah Dessen.
I'm probably going to read every book I find written by her.I think the characters were realistic and I absolutely love the way delicate issues were managed.
I also thoroughly enjoy the romance, I was falling in love at the same time Annabel did ♥ The secondary characters were really good, too!
I particularly enjoy Owen's little sister :) I have to say, I was really frustrated with Annabel's mom, but that's life, everybody have flaws -even moms.
I wouldn't say I loved it but it was par my expectations! What I expected was some cheesy romance novel, a damsel in distress and a guy that comes in her life and put things in order, well of course if you outline the story it is kind of that but not really. There is so much more depth, a bigger message, ah! Will discuss more it in my review which will come soon :P BRBI AM BACK, read my review here - http://storypals.net/reviewjustlisten/
Because of one specific thing that happened she isn’t able to function because she has kept quiet about it and it’s tearing her and her life apart.
And it’s destroying her.Then we meet Owen, a boy she avoided or ignored before her life “ended.” He challenges her in every aspect because he doesn’t believe in lies or avoiding the truth and through his love of music that he is able to help Annabel is ways nobody else could reach her.
I loved the hard truth and life situations that were happening in this story.
