https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/950143.Witness
If you hate politics, if you loathe old Cold War battles, if you have no interest in any of such things, you should still pick up this book.
It is more eloquent and moving than anything you will ever read on the subject.
And if you still do not believe me, then pick it up, and read the chapter entitled "The Child."My wife ran over to me, took my hands, and burst into tears.
Reason, the agony of my family, the Communist Party and its theories, the wars and revolutions of the twentieth century, crumbled at the touch of the child.
I suspect that some on the left still bother to revile Whitaker Chambers because they see him as a patsy for the Nixons and McCarthys of the world, an opportunistic imprisoner of innocents, and neglect the vortex of self-doubt and mystery that remains at the center of this, his autobiography.Chambers was the man who fingered Alger Hiss and prompted a lot of the Red Scare by persuading The Powers That Be that the State Department was riddled with Communists.
Witness is the autobiography of Whittaker Chambers who grew up on Long Island, joined the communist party in 1925, and later worked as an agent in the underground in Washington DC.
Ten years later, Chambers testified in the now famous Alger Hiss trials in an attempt to expose the infiltration of communism into the US government.
If anything, it is more terrible in what it tells about the world in which you live." The purpose of writing the book, he continued, was to try to make clear to his children and to the world the true nature of Communism and the source of its power.
My mom told me for years that I would love this book.
She also said that, as a writer, I would be underlining every other word.
Whittaker Chambers doesn't simply have an astounding story to tell (ex-Communist turned Quaker turned Time editor turned key witness in the earthquaking Alger Hiss case), but he has the gift to tell it profoundly well.
It's almost impossible to overrate this 800-page monster.
It does exactly what Chambers wanted it to do: "In this book...
I am leading you...
up and up a narrow defile between bare and steep rocks from which in shadow things uncoil and slither away.
the most poetic, eloquent and compelling book i've ever read. a must read. a narrative on human nature, strength, weakness, vulnerability, and what may or may not be inevitable. but also exciting. a biography written in the first-person by a man of incredible humility, wisdom, compassion and love for his family, mankind and the world. i am lucky to have read this book. it's not religious at all but for me a religious experience no doubt. eye-opening. and i'm not easily stirred. can't recommend enough.
I usually don't even read 800-page books (especially these days!), but I devoured Witness.
(World magazine put it in its top 10 most influential books of the 20th century re: Christian worldview.) Witness is a true-life spy story, detailing Chambers' work for the US Communist party and on behalf of the Soviet Union in the 1930s.
Witness also shows, through its detailed account of Chambers' experience as a Communist, how evil Communism is -- anti-life, anti-love, anti-truth, etc.
I knew Communism was evil, but the story Chambers tells puts flesh on this truth.
Chambers spent many years in the Communist underground in Baltimore, supporting a cell of spies and subversives.
Eventually he came to the Cross and escaped the despair of the Communist enterprise.
His testimony before the House Committee on Un-American Activities exposed the depth of the Communist penetration of American institutions, and led eventually to the perjury conviction of Alger Hiss, then a respected diplomat, once the founding Secretary General of the UN.Chambers was a haunted man.
No man can speak competently about the Cold War and the terrible blackness at the heart of Communist who has not confronted this book.
Few observers have been exposed to the Twentieth Century in all its raw vicissitudes the way Chambers was: the shift from rural to urban living, the sharp left turn among privileged American undergraduates from complacency to Bolshevism, the miring of the American economy in steady depression in the 1930s -- the realization to Chambers that he must not only quit the Communist Party but later bear witness to its shocking inroads into the corridors of American power.
Badly in debt to the various attorneys who helped steer him through two lengthy federal Grand Jury sessions having largely to do with his relation to the well-placed (and undoubtedly) Communist Alger Hiss, Chambers’ wrote this autobiography Witness (1952).
Early in his life, he was called to be a witness against the modern world and for communism.Here is a man who was desperate to fix the problems of the modern age.
At that point, he became a witness against communism and for God.In Witness, a beautifully written autobiographical narrative, Chambers recounts his life up until shortly after the Hiss case, that was to bring him fame.
Luckily for the reader, Chambers is a top-notch writer who worked for years as an editor at Time and then a writer for National Review (I’d take either spot).This is not just a book about the perils of communism.
He had met ten years earlier with a fairly high-ranking government official and disclosed to him all the information he had at the time relating to espionage.
In other words, if you are not actively engaged in the counter-revolution you are actually in the camp of the revolutionary.I had to think of this in terms of the war that is now taking place-- the war of Cosmic Humanist, Secular Humanist, and Judeo-Christian ideology in the minds and lives of the inhabitants of this planet.
The revolutionary is the Secular Humanist and the counter-revolutionary is the Judeo-Christian.
WITNESS. (1952; this ed. 2002). Whittaker Chambers. ****. This was very definitely a book of its time. When I first read it about thirty years ago, the events were relatively recent and all the characters – at least most of them – were still fresh in my mind. Chabers claim to fame, at least to most people who remember him, was as a key witness in the trial of Alger Hiss, ultimately helping to convict Hiss of espionage against the U.S. Chambers himself joined the Communist Party in about 1928, bu
Chabers claim to fame, at least to most people who remember him, was as a key witness in the trial of Alger Hiss, ultimately helping to convict Hiss of espionage against the U.S. Chambers himself joined the Communist Party in about 1928, but dropped out in the mid-1930s – though not without severe misgivings.
During the 1940s, Chambers appeared before the HUAC and essentially turned state’s evidence – naming names and dates.
Some people even thought that Chambers was naming names only to protect himself and draw attention away from his participation.
When he testifies the book slows down, but in a way that works too, just to show how mind-numbing and really limited our justice system is.
That the prosecution had to focus on Hiss owning a car to break his defense is something I'm not sure is humorous or sad.There's a lot of crap written by revisionists about the Red Scare and Mccarthyism, but this book reminds us that the Communist really were an organized menace that attracted our best and brightest, and had serious support and no shortage of fellow travelers among the intelligentsia.
In this autobiography, Chambers recounted his unhappy childhood, his search for meaning in the "crisis of history" that led him to communism, his underground work for the Communist Party, the confrontation between God-less communism and Christianity, his break from the Communist Party, his efforts to protect his family from the Communist Party after his break, his work at Time Magazine, and his essential decision to become a "witness" against the Communist infiltration of the U.S. government.
Just as well as Chambers tells of the events, he explains their meaning.
790 pages of Chambers's pathetic mewling makes it easy to understand, even for those of us who weren't there, why so many people assumed he was dishonest.
Chambers is a true believer in every sense and at every point.
he was driven to communism not by any reasoned interpretation or close textual reading, but by a disgust with modernity, and a desperate need to belong and to be a part of the true faith - grown from his youthful religiosity.
Reason, he suggests (and here I agree with him), turns people away from God. Little is more sickening to me than someone who denounces rational thought because it sews the seeds of agnosticism.
The book gets to the heart of the matter by what Chambers calls the "tragedy of history." As an avid historian and political thinker, I had never before truly grasped the conflict between those whose faith lies in God verses those whose faith lies with Man. This book gave me a more substantial understanding of my own conservative beliefs.
On a more fundamental level, if you're interested in the great human struggle of modern times, you should read this book.
This book has a fine literary style, particularly the climax of the book coming with Chambers struggling against himself, alone in a picturesque setting, that has become so well known to history.
In our day and age Chambers' insight is essential.
Chambers' simple but elegant analysis of the problem of modernity is that modern man chooses faith in almighty man rather than faith in God. Communism is the systematic expression of that choice but much of the non-communist world shares Communism's faith in almighty man.
Chambers' experiences and analysis are powerful and important, though Communism may have fallen many of the problems that he has identified have not gone away and in fact will not.
Faith is the central problem of this age.
It is a bit dated, but it reveals how the Communists worked infiltrating the power structure of the United States.
I think all governments are corrupt but the Communists took it all to a dispassionate art form.
I worked on a Kibbutz in Israel, which had Communist beginnings.
Even on a Kibbutz the Jews there were unable or unwilling to give up the traditions of lighting candles on the Sabbath or having a glass of wine.
It was kind of sad to see them having gotten as far as Israel, and giving up their religious practices.
This political biography of one of the most controversial Soviet spies in American history is so EXCELLENT.
The intrigues and subversive plots and plans that he chronicles from the time he was involved in the Communist underground are some of the best "spy" material ...
While Chambers held to hard core Communist ideals at the beginning of his life, he found that it eventually led to disillusionment and despair.
His search for the truth led him to Christianity and the desire to sound the alarm to a country (America) that had become enamored with Communist ideology ...
those enamored with Communism went as high as high officials in our government.
an EXCELLENT read !
Chambers was being called a liar and a fraud by a person who had shown himself to be a disloyal psychopath (the willingness of Hiss to shamelessly fabricate lies on the spot that contradicted prior lies is impressive in its being totally unmoored from normal human abilities.) An editorial from 1953 that I read makes the point that perhaps we who have not been in the Communist underground and separated ourselves from a totalizing faith like Communism may not be in a position to understand:“Because of Chambers’ own compulsive desire to confess, all because we do have so much information concerning him, his motivations, his mysticism and his other-worldly attitudes, we must take him on his own terms.
Mr. Chambers lays out the good and the bad both of himself and the Communist infiltration of our government in many places but especially of high places next to the president.
Page 617: A European guest at a meeting with Henry Luce (Time Magazine) and Mr. Chambers said "The Communist conspiracy is unlike any ever known before.
It is conspiracy in the open." Mr Chambers was to lay down his life to expose the espionage committed by Alger Hiss.
The book is long but worth the time to read and digest what has transpired in our government from the early 1900's.
This is an astonishing book, for several reasons.First, the writing.
Chambers was a tremendous writer, and though he struggled putting himself and his family under the microscope, those portions of the book are his most powerful attack on Communism.
No one who reads “Witness” can fail to be convinced of Hiss’s perfidy: Chambers takes it step-by-step, augmenting his tale with undeniable facts.
At the end, Witness isn’t the “he-said/she-said” of Hiss’s perjury trial, but an indictment for treason.Yes the book is thicker than two steaks.
But Witness allows the reader an under-publicized perspective on Communist infiltration into U.S. government ranks.
This is the true account of the Alger Hiss trials as they were a huge part of the Whittaker Chambers story and the author provides an outstanding picture of his emotions and philosophies throughout his ordeals as first a communist, then a convert to Christianity and ultimately the key witness in the Hiss trial as a result of his desire to save the United States from being overtaken by communism from within.
Today, 65 years later, Chambers' message resonates ominously, yet hopefully as America faces similar threats from the current incarnation of Communism and Socialism - the progressive left.
I have to add that I greatly admire much of Ayn Rand's thinking on capitalism versus communism and socialism, and, given that Chambers wrote the most excoriating review of Atlas Shrugged in National Review in 1957, I put off reading this book for years.
Ayn Rand admirers should read this book with an open mind because, ultimately, it speaks to the dignity of every individual, and there is much common ground.
Have had 5 stars in mind during most of my reading time, but in the latter stages have come to think 4.5 stars is right, as I'm having a hard time buying his reasons for not exposing the ESPIONAGE sooner.
He says he hates and wants to destroy CommunISM but wants to spare his CommunIST friends and acquaintances.
THEY wanted to destroy the freedom of the U.S. AND Chambers -- don't believe he was thinking clearly.STILL, this is a remarkable and wonderfully written book .
Makes me want to find out more about the whole Hiss-Chambers story and will move on to a Chambers biography presently.
Throughout the Roosevelt administration the state department was infiltrated with Democrats, er, I mean communists. Whitaker Chambers, a reformed communist, was aware of the espionage and started naming names. But, unfortunately, he was not suave, just smart and sincere. This resulted in a seemingly losing battle against one of his best friends and unrepentant undercover communist, Alger Hiss. With persistence, bravery and a newly found faith in God, Mr. Chambers proved his case and became a great American. I whole-heartedly recommend this autobiography -- in addition the telling an great story, Chamber is an almost poetic writer.
Suprisingly good book.
The memoir of a former communist who breaks with the party and exposes Alger Hiss in trials that fuel the rise of Richard Nixon.
This book is said to have changed Ronald Reagon's life and was once thought of as a bible for conservatives.Chambers is plagued by guilt and resentment.
Chambers became a communist and entered the underground in the mid 1920's and broke with the party after the purges by Stalin convinced him that it was an evil system.
And it appears almost certain that Hiss was a communist and a spy.
Maybe this was written in a time when people inherently understood why a person would want to be a communist, but I don’t get it.Chambers also comes across as a really annoying fence straddler.
This was all made worse by a pretty serious and annoying (and probably warranted) persecution complex.The most compelling part of the book was his testimony in front of the House of Un-American Activities Committee and at trial of Alger Hiss.
I don’t think Russia has half the influence it once did within the American bureaucracy, but it shouldn’t surprise us that he would want to.The story behind Witness is better than the book.
What can I even say about this book?
This book offers some interesting insight into the liberties that we have slowly lost in America.
Also, Chambers comes from a broken family, but he breaks away from that and, in the midst of his trials, has a strong family with his wife and children.
He shares his views on the land, on preparing his children for their battles in life by protecting and shielding them for a season, and there are some wonderful examples of a strong relationship in his marriage to his wife.
The first part makes very clear that being an open or underground communist was awfully boring.
The 'Red' posters you see on campuses are still doing the same thing: trying to fool themselves into thinking they're doing something exciting and revolutionary when it's as boring as all get-out.The book builds expectations very slowly but by the end has a great deal of momentum and does not disappoint: it tells of a man willing and intending to sacrifice everything for the sake of truth.
Courage like that makes truth a hard thing to fight.
It praises the House Un-American Activities Committee for its work unearthing Communists, and celebrates its member Richard Nixon as the "kindest of men." It also engages in extended soliloquies on the wonders of Christianity, the nature of God, and the futility of atheism.
When Chambers finally produced a series of secret State Department documents from Hiss and others to show that not only had Hiss been a Communist but that he had spied for the Soviet Union, Hiss was convicted of perjury.Much of the enlightened world never forgave Chambers, but in the fullness of time, with recent Soviet archives releases, we've learned that he was right.
