https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2775096-it-walks-by-night
This was my first John Dickson Carr mystery, read as a teenager, and I still remember not being able to sleep at night, thinking, "How could it possibly have been done?" For, of course, it's about an apparently impossible crime, which is Carr's specialty.
It is also permeated with the atmosphere of a horror tale, and features one of my favorite fictional detectives, Bencolin, who also cannot sleep until he solves the mystery.My impression is, and I must reread to confirm it, that Carr never surpassed his performance here in regard to the smooth blending of detective story and thriller.
And so Carr shows he can write a French mystery novel. Here, a mad lunatic announces he will seek vengeance against the woman who divorced him after turning psychopath, and the man who married him! And it opens with the man who married her getting killed, in the most grotesque way.After a second murder, it becomes more confusing as to who the murderer could be. Now, I can’t say this completely fair play mystery, but it certainly has the all the strange personality that you find.An interesting switch to the other Carr stories that I’ve read.
Carr's first of eighty-something novels starts off with an escaped madman stalking his newly-remarried wife, but quickly turns into a locked room mystery with the madman almost an afterthought.
While the first murder is pleasingly set up and visualized, the plot drags, and the book is most interesting as a way of seeing his themes before he knew how to best present them.
Written in 1929 or 1930, it's also a refreshingly different take on Paris in the 20's, set in drug dens, gambling houses, and provincial estates, a world away from the city Hemingway and other American expatriates knew.
Worth a look for those interested in tracing the evolution of Carr's career.
It Walks By Night is John Dickson Carr's first novel (also the first Henri Bencolin, the French detective) and it is my first read of John Dickson Carr.
He was one of the masters of the "impossible crime", such as the locked room mystery.
I found It Walks By Night to be an uneven, yet well written story, it is also one of his "locked room" type stories.
It is an involved story of a woman that had married a mad man who tried to kill her years before.
The writing certainly had a 'period' feel to it, but was not much removed from contemporary writing today.Like any good mystery, it begins quickly as the scene of the crime unfolds to the protagonist.
The ending, I felt, was one of the weaker parts of the book, though this may be a scenario where at the time, the ending was fresh and dramatic, but after 80 years of (mostly) improved literature, the ending is now less dramatic and cliche.Either way, if you enjoy mystery novels or older novels, this is worth the read.
In the second category are works that achieve something more-- either an engrossing atmosphere, or literary depth, or a bold plot twist that actually makes sense.
I'd previously read a story of John Dickson Carr's (Hag's Nook) that disappointed, but I decided to give him another shot, and I'm glad I did.
It Walks By Night-- his first published mystery-- is worthy of the second category on all three counts.First: atmosphere.
When the central mystery resolves itself into a locked-room puzzle, the sense of impossibility and vague horror is only heightened, and then-- ah, but I'm giving away too much.Second: depth.
This is the first mystery novel in years to hold my attention for the duration, and surprise me with the ending. I kept asking myself who it was, trying to outsmart the author. Nope. This was clever, original, and I have a feeling this is going to be my first author-binge since I finished Agatha Christie's works... years ago.
Not the best I've ever read, but good enough for me to buy the other four books of the series...another good locked room mystery.
This book features your now bog-standard clever detective and impossible locked room mystery, which apparently was slightly less bog-standard at the time it was published.
The trouble with an impossible locked room murder is that most readers have seen it so many times by now that you immediately puzzle out what's actually happened (e.g. the murderer must have committed the murder at a different time, so hmm this guy was being super on-the-spot about where he was at each time, aha!
I suspect those who are especial fans of locked room mysteries will get more out of this than I did.
IT WALKS BY NIGHT. (1930). John Dickson Carr. ***. This is the first novel by Carr to feature Prefect of Police, Henri Bencolin. It is a locked room mystery that is relatively complicated in its plot, but manages to bring it off with Carr’s flamboyant imagination. The action takes place at Fanelli’s gambling house in Paris in April of 1927. Fanelli’s not only offers gambling, but, upstairs, in his private office, he can also provide – to his best customers – drugs in the form of marijuana, hash,
It is a locked room mystery that is relatively complicated in its plot, but manages to bring it off with Carr’s flamboyant imagination.
The action starts when a man is found dead in the card room.
There are lots of potential suspects, but all seem to have alibis, alibis all backed up by Bencolin’s men and the other members of the gambling clique.
The plot is a bit complicated, and the solution, when it is revealed, is a bit of a let-down, but in all it is still a good read and a good start on Carr’s series featuring this Parisian police sleuth.
I read this book as a teenager and remembered it as wonderfully clever and creepy.
It is indeed clever and creepy, but not quite to the degree I remembered.
A French aristocrat, being stalked by an escaped madman, is observed entering a card room off the main salon of a casino.
Detectives have been watching both doors to the room and have seen nobody else enter or leave.
The formidable and eccentric Bencolin, genius of the Sûreté, will explain.That's basically the plot; it's all filled out with a lot of Lost-Generation-in-Paris atmosphere, hokum about drugs and the decadent rich, and much purple prose.
Masterpiece from the beginning of John Dickson Carr literary career.The best, perhaps, among the novels with Henry Bencolin.In this novel there is much Connington, and many Gothic reminiscences. The result is a memorable novel, really.The revelation of the murderer, after repeated surprises, is truly unforgettable. And it is even more so with the fact that explains why the victim was kneeling when he was beheaded, and how then, those who guarded the exits of the room when they entered, they found only the body but not the murderer.This was the second novel I read, after "He Who Whispers".
Not Carr's best. Obv., being his first. He really honed his craft over the years, but there's a lot of Carr excellence here: namely, atmosphere and complicated plot mechanics.Also, for 420 enthusiasts there are quite a few fun observations about the drug. Very Reefer Madnes!I thought the ending was a little bit of a letdown and Carr was too in love with Paris, but the Poe homage is nice. All in all, a can't miss for Carr and Bencolin fans.
Oh, I'm hovering between a 1 and a 2 star rating! More a 1 but having said that I don't regret reading it so I'll go with 2.Can tell it's a first novel, very much in the style of Poe or Conan-Doyle and it's this trying too hard that probably is where it fails. Quite difficult to follow and read; the narrator you know nothing about is annoying, characters all unlikeable. But there's potential in amongst all that. Glad it's first Dickson Carr I've read it leaves room to progress!
The first Dickson Carr novel and all the elements are in place.Not quite fully formed of course but a clear sign of things to come.The locked room solution is a little weak,relying on chance and luck to pull it off,but on the whole this is an enjoyable,solid debut.I do miss some of the humour from the Merrivale and Fell novels,Bencolin is an engaging but very straight laced protagonist..
I'm not sure why I never read anymore of the Henri Bencolin series, I enjoyed this one a lot.It's a locked room mystery a sub genre of which John Dickson Carr is considered by many to be the master.This had an enjoyably old fashioned feel with hints at the supernatural before everything is very precisely resolved in an entirely posible (if not believable) fashion.
I sought out anything by John Dickson Carr, having read about his works on a mystery website. There are only a handful of works available in my local libraries, and I selected this one randomly. Carr specializes in "locked room" mysteries and gives the reader all the information needed to solve the crime. A good read and the "solution" to the mystery was quite plausible.
The first of Carr's mystery novels. Before he found his signature writing style and created his two favorite detectives, Dr Fell and Sir Henry Merrivale, he set his first novels in Paris, clearly going for the atmosphere of Gaston Leroux and Maurice LeBlanc. Would not recommend this first novel to any lover of Carr; if you want an enjoyable novel with his French setting, try The Waxworks Murder.
Written in 1930 this was the first successful "locked" room murder mystery . Detective stories had not been around long, so reading this is a refreshing change from the slick, mysteries being mass produced today.
I just couldn't care about the detective or the characters, I think because of Carr's detached writing style. I felt distanced from everything--it was so modernist and disillusioned, so very Gatsby or something.
Very interesting ending--I never expected it!
It is good
Not one of the best John Dickson Carr books. Very melodramatic prose and quite an easy solution.
Review to come...still sorting out exactly what I thought of this...
read SOMETIME in 2001
even though the clues were laid out fairly, the plot is somewhat inferior judging by the latter book.. It was Carr's first novel after all..
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
