https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26889576-the-big-short
Success was an individual achievement; failure was a social problem.”The real estate market in the United States after several years of frantic growth peaked in 2004, which was the year I decided to start buying properties.
The first time I bought a property, the banker wrote it up as an ARM (adjustable rate mortgage).
Anyone with any sense, you don’t need business acumen for this one, can look at that situation and KNOW with certainty that strawberry picker will not be able to make his payments.
The Subprime Mortgage Crisis...it’s too easy to just lay blame on a cabal of greed-constipated Wall Street sphincters who unzipped their consciences, yanked down their morals and dropped a huge deuce on the U.S. financial system. In many ways it’s TRUE and it feels REALLY good to say...but it’s too easy. There were clearly some major crooks, scumbags and swindlers involved in this monetary atrocity...a number of whom should have been taken out to the desert and shot, in my very pissed off opini
The Subprime Mortgage Crisis...it’s too easy to just lay blame on a cabal of greed-constipated Wall Street sphincters who unzipped their consciences, yanked down their morals and dropped a huge deuce on the U.S. financial system.
Joseph Cassano: Nicknamed “Patient Zero” of the meltdown, Joe was the executive at AIG in charge of the company’s subsidiary (AIG Financial Products Corporation) that issued billions in credit default swaps (many to Steve Eisman and Michael Burry) that ended up coming due when the housing market tanked.
One of the most interesting aspects of the book for me was how eccentric the people on the "right" side of the crisis were.
Michael Lewis looks at a handful of people who saw what was happening in the US economy, tried to sound an alarm, but also used their knowledge to make barrels of cash.
Lewis may single-handedly revive stuffing cash in mattresses as a savings option.
One key is the willingness of ratings agencies, like Moody’s and S&P, to hold their noses and rate as triple-A offerings that should have been rated as triple-crap.
Maybe I should invest in a better mattress?1/22/16 - Saw the film tonight, and it is fracking brilliant!
But now, in retrospect, with the sharpened eyes and heightened cultural awareness I have now, it enthralls me for another reason too (2): because the greed, stupidity and raging capitalism that brought this country to its knees (only for our taxpaying dollars to bail it out and pick it back up again, of course) is what I came to understand that we are widely known for and understood as the world over during my time living overseas.
They saw what became obvious in hindsight: that many of the loans backing mortgage securities were originated with very low standards applied (by firms who didn’t have to eat their own cooking), were issued with teaser rates that would soon adjust up, and were likely to default as soon as the air started coming out of the big housing balloon.
They were also rated too high by Moody’s and S&P for the default potential they contained (partly because the agencies were easily duped by the Goldmans of the world who were paying their fees and wanted AAA assets to vend).
Sadly, it didn’t occur to me to try and capitalize on those idle thoughts, but I’d like to think that if I had met any of the guys featured in this book about that time I’d have drawn on that experience and handed them my every dime I had to bet on the whole thing falling apart.Michael Lewis has written a succinct and fascinating explanation as to why and how a handful of people recognized the coming financial crisis years before it hit and found ways to profit enourmously from it.
I'm guessing the movie will be great!Hasn't everyone read this book?
At one time this was the 'it' book to read.
Michael Lewis became a popular-household name....Hugely entertaining and informative look at the current economic shambles!
---If you have not read this yet--go to your local library --(I'm sure you can find a free copy) --and refresh your history with the financial disaster which 'touched/touches' our lives...BEFORE seeing the movie this year.
The movie looks great!
'Almost' as wonderful as Michael Lewis is at being a storyteller.
The mortgages were being bought by companies that bundled them and turned them into bonds—which they were able to sell, so they didn’t care how bad the mortgages were either.In order to be sold, the bonds had to be rated by one of three rating agencies.
Shockingly, very few people, at any level of the financial world or the U.S. government, understood that the ratings—and the bonds they described—were worthless.This is a book about many things, but it is particularly a story of incentives, and the calamitous effects of incentivizing irresponsible behavior.
Wall Street is probably best known for the movie quote "Greed is good."But after reading The Big Short, Michael Lewis' excellent book about the lead up to the 2008 global financial crisis and the small group of people who saw the collapse coming and bet against it, I think Wall Street needs a new saying: "Y'all are a bunch of greedy assholes."I've read several Michael Lewis books, and he does a good job explaining complex subjects to lay people.
Because based on the large number of greedy assholes in Wall Street, it will probably happen again.Meaningful Passage"The line between gambling and investing is artificial and thin.
This book exclusively features people who were criminally stupid, those who were just flat-out criminals, and the scumbags who were smart enough to profit from it when the financial world was burning down.One sweetheart described himself as "orgasmic" when he received reports on the failing housing market.
As the final slap in the face, the government swoops in in the third act to pass out pallets of cash to sinking banks with almost no strings.Yes, Main Street America got taken for a ride.
He surely understands "too good to be true." Some people took interest only, floating rate, negative-amortizing mortgages.
Mr. Lewis devotes about one paragraph towards the end of the book to it and Mr. Greenspan is only mentioned three times, even though his policies were the cause of the housing bubble, my opinion.2.
The part that really astounded me is the fact that this individual were not prosecuted for crminal behaviour.
Finally, we ned to have our government invest money in the employment of individuals who are as competent in investigating fraud as investment firms do in hiring crooks.
This is not the more common bottom-up look at the mortgage loan sweatshop industry; instead, this is a top-down view from the rarefied air above 20 stories at Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Merryl Lynch, JP Morgan, Lehman Brothers, Bear Sterns, Citigroup, and the other fu**ing RAPISTS in south Manhattan.I'm a fiscal conservative (and a social moderate), but I'm slowly, creakily becoming more convinced that our free market needs a bit more regulation.
In 2004, in fact, there wasn't even invented yet a vehicle to short the CDSs and CDOs. The concept of shorting a bond that was deemed un-defaultable was not even considered by Wall Street.
The conversation was on how people were refinancing their homes at unheard of values and next to nothing interest rates.
The book takes the most arcane financial concepts, terms and people and presents them in an easy to understand (for the most part) and extremely interesting and fast paced manner.
It is also interesting that no one really seems to care and the Goldman Sachs brand appears to be as strong as ever.Oh yeah, that group of dads from that balmy October afternoon, some lost their homes, others just faded away.
I thought some people in the government might be smart enough to realize what happened and know what to do: cheated.Michael Lewis played two roles in writing this book about the subprime loan debacle.
(p.201)Osama and his team of bombers couldn't have done what our own Wall Street firms and their rating agencies and regulators did to the to the U.S. people and to the credibility of the U.S. government:It was as if bombs of differing sizes had been placed in virtually every major financial institution.
(p.225)It seems ridiculous for me to urge you to read this book.
It explained complex ideas like subprime mortgage bonds and CDO's in a clear way, and almost read like a fast paced thriller.Essentially it seems that a bad ratings system and human greed created an economy that fostered the creation of a lot of bad debts, that eventually went bad, and caused a lot of big companies to go under (Lehman brothers, Bear Sterns), or require a bailout (Goldman Sachs, AIG).
The math was complex, but apparently somehow tranches that consisted almost entirely of "subprime" (aka risky) mortgages were being given high A ratings.
That, and we need smarter people working at the ratings agencies.
Lewis provides a thorough and interesting take on the financial crisis, and now I think I finally begin to understand what caused the world economy to tank.
It may leave you disgusted with every person even tangentially involved with Wall Street and the shadow banking system, but at least you'll have a clue about how they took down our economy, and how they're probably going to do it all over again.By the way: Dr. Michael Burry, the most intriguing and savvy character in the book, believes we're in for another bust.
Los productos financieros y las operaciones en que se tradujo esta apuesta son complejos, y el libro en ocasiones se enreda en su naturaleza y funcionamiento, pero esto no es lo más importante que se puede objetarle.
Al final, en efecto, se entenderá más o menos bien de qué se trata:  es como si yo compro un seguro contra el incendio de su casa; esto parece absurdo, salvo que yo sepa o sospeche que su casa se va a incendiar, en cuyo caso cobraré el dinero o le venderé a usted el seguro a un precio altísimo, pero que usted pagará cuando vea las llamas.
In The Big Short, Michael Lewis outlines the causes of the housing crisis (which led to the larger Financial Crisis of 2007-2010), and tells the story of three small investment companies (basically four different investors) who saw it coming, bet against it, and made millions of dollars in the process.
Some genius on Wall Street decided that packaging sub-prime loans and selling them off as bonds would be a great idea and assumed they were low-risk simply because they were coming from people all around the country rather than one specific geographical area.
This was a really captivating read. It's a good intro to what occurred in 2008 and who were involved that led up to the failure of the banks. Makes one really wonder how oblivious they all were to their impact to the general population. Banks are pretty soulless and detached from reality.
Michael Lewis turns the 2008 financial meltdown into a compelling narrative about two very smart, very abrasive skeptics who realized the juggernaut Wall Street had created was doomed to self-destruct, and worked out how to cash in big — the big short.Steve Eisman began his career as a corporate lawyer.
Like Eisman, Burry was looking for a way to capitalize on that insight.Lewis follows these two men from 2000 to 2007 along with the rapidly mutating bond market.
Reading this book is like riding a time machine back a couple years, walking into the Wall Street offices and asking them, "What in the world were you thinking?" The story is told from the view point of several investors who were betting against the sub-prime mortgage industry.
The book tells of one individual who visits numerous investment companies trying to get them to bet against the sub-prime mortgage industry, but almost nobody was willing to believe him.
Still, he convinced few people.The book also tells of the owner of an investment company that shorted the home mortgage business, and the investors in his company wanted their money back.
While he sees correctly that moral hazard was central to creating the crisis Lewis looks for the moral hazard in the wrong place: arguing, oddly, that the transformation of Wall Street firms from private partnerships into public corporations was a key cause of the crisis, when even as private partnerships the Wall Street firms would have had an incentive to gamble with borrowed money, particularly if they could expect to be bailed out by the US government.
Burry and the Cornwall guys became fabulously wealthy after their prescient bets against CDO's (as well as several other shrewd investments before that).
Happy thought for the day:At least I don't have to include a stint as an analyst for Moody's or Standard & Poor's to my list of professional shortcomings.
It deserves the highest rank for the clear explanation of how to answer this question: “How do you explain to an innocent citizen of the free world the importance of a credit default swap on a double-A tranche of a subprime-backed collateralized debt obligation?” Not only will you be able to understand that arcane financial question, you will be riveted in the story Michael Lewis tells while you learn.
This book shows you how we got to that point through the subprime mortgage loan process.
This book will make a lot of the chicanery understandable and, even better, interesting.Some people saw the subprime mortgage crash coming.
This non-fiction account of the players and events behind the financial crisis of 2008, specifically banks spinning out derivatives whose risk they themselves didn't understand, was for me scarier than any horror movie.
Lewis explains how credit default swaps and synthetic options got so far out of control as people bet on an ever-rising housing market that the American financial system would have self-destructed but for the intervention of the government.Having lived through the crisis, I well remember the feeling of precariousness as the nanosecond trust on which financial systems operates evaporated.
Lewis explains how and why it happened.The book should be read (or the movie seen) by everyone.
They figured out what they were looking at: hundreds of thousands (maybe millions?) of loans that were certain to default, wrapped up together in ridiculous, fabricated "bonds" - essentially pieces of paper with no real worth or value except what Wall Street decided they should be worth, extremely high-risk investments that were rated as low-risk by the two rating agencies who completely stepped on their dicks (and were snookered as well, but they still stepped on their dicks).
The Big Short by Michael Lewisreader: Jesse Boggspublished: 2010format: 9 hr 29 min digital audiobook and 266 page hardcover acquired: borrowed both from my library read: listened to 87% May 5-17, read last 66 pages Aug 15-16rating: 4 starsIn a nutshell, this about the bastards who got rich on the 2008 US subprime mortgage crash.
Every key player got rich, even the ones who misread everything and lost billions for their companies.
It was one guy with Asperger's Syndrome (which may have given him a huge advantage since the condition does help one to focus intensely) who realized that the banks, in making negatively amortized mortgages, were creating a situation to would inevitably fail.
He decided to bet against it, was right, and made billions through the use of the banks own creations: the credit default swap, which is basically an insurance policy that pays off big if a bet goes south.
Basically, Wall Street could care less about investors and is only interested in getting the maximum number of fees.
Ultimately, Lewis believes that Wall Street has divorced itself from American society and may have done itself in.
And coming from there, I read The Big Short as a vindication of what my professors had been trying to teach me.
This is telling, as even in the foreword, Michael Lewis laments that though written from a different viewpoint, his first book, Liar's Poker, was read by college students as a how-to guide rather than as a warning notice.
But today, several years later, The Big Short makes a lot more sense to me in its convoluted characters and flawed heroes - Wall Street is responding to incentives.
And yet we know how hard it was for the people who Wall Street conned into their great game.
Clarifying such concepts as credit default swap and collateralized debt obligation (CDO), Lewis brings to life those Wall Street figures involved in creating the conditions for the huge financial losses incurred during the market crash and those who saw the crisis coming, predicted it, bet against it, and reaped financial windfalls as a result.
The author is good at clarifying some of the concepts involved, although I must confess that to more perfectly comprehend the details I discussed the book and the events with an attorney friend who is more conversant with the market than I am.Lewis writes well, often with a wry sense of humor and frequently in earthy language.
