https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1075635.Ring_of_Bright_Water
I wanted to read this after having a go at Miriam Darlington’s Otter Country, which in many ways revolved around this book and the landscape described by Gavin Maxwell.
Otters were, not quite pets, but definitely companions for him, in a way that Darlington had no opportunity to understand.Maxwell takes such a delight in the landscape and the antics of the creatures within it, both the wild ones and those he tamed or half-tamed, that it’s impossible not to enjoy this, for me.
Mostly, it’s worth reading for that delight in nature, described with love and attention to detail.
Although this was written in the 60s, I just found it after reading a Wall Street Journal list of the best nature writing. This is a lovely read about a writer who lives in an isolated Scottish home in summer. This is not a book of fast plot or twists, but it is equisite description of the home and life there, and of how life changes when the writer acquires a pet otter. With sophisticated writing and vocabulary, even the fawning over this beloved otter avoids sentimentality or cuteness, and sustains a literary tone that is beautiful and rewarding.
Forever after you read A Ring of Bright Water, the beauty, wonder, and humor of this book will gently surface with a ring of bright ripples in the waters of you mind.
This is the true story of Gavin's befriending of otters (or perhaps we should say of the otters' decision to befriend Gavin.) In one scene, on the first night Gavin has one of the otters in his home, the otter carefully watches Gavin get into bed and pull the covers to his chin.
The otter then crawls in beside Gavin, lies on its back, and pulls the covers to its own chin.
After seeing the film of the same name, I was compelled to read the book by Gavin Maxwell. RING OF BRIGHT WATER is a heartfelt tale of man and the animal world. Great reading.
I osmosed the movie based on Ring of Bright Water as an animal-obsessed kid, and read the book not long after. While I imagine that some British neomarxist critics might furrow their brows at Maxwell's use of a pastoral escape device that drives the plot, I'm not coldhearted (or disentangled from ideology) enough to dismiss Maxwell's love of both the rustic Scottish seascape, and of otterkind. Devastatingly sad at times, but sleek and beautiful, this is an animal story classic that has mostly gone unappreciated by American readers in recent decades.
Pero la presente, " El círculo del agua clara", es de lejos una (sino la mejor) de ellas.Y es que el pedazo de auto biografía del Naturista Gavin Maxwell, que nos relata su afincación en la Islas Hébridas, en un paraje que él bautiza cómo Camusfeàrna, es una narración tremendamente sentimental, sincera, objetiva (en la visión global de lo que le rodea y los malos rasgos característicos de las nutrias que lo acompañan en su andanza vital por las inóspitas tierras Escocesa, a la vez que sentimental ( y desgarrador por ello), cálido , delicado, y en parte subjetivo ( de las subjetividad que puede tener cualquier persona entregada a la causa de cuidar ) al dar su vida y compartirla con especímenes, en principio, ajenos a él , pero, y sin embargo, más cercanos que los de su misma especie.
In Ring of Bright Water, Maxwell recounts the early years at "Camusfearna", an isolated house in a remote part of Scotland and his subsequent adventures and misadventures raising three otters.
The way in which Maxwell goes about describing his otters is absolutely captivating.
He is quite quick to recognize that many readers will find this affection for an animal to be absurd, a kind of apology that one would be hard-pressed to find in the writings of fervent animals lovers today.
This truly is a beautiful book and such a quick read that anyone even slightly interested should give it a go.
I can only imagine such things as I have never experienced such a place and such a relationship with wild animals.I understand modern criticism of Maxwell's work, as wild animals should not be penned up and domesticated, but at the same time, I never felt angry with Maxwell.
I felt that he thought of otters as his equals and that he had no intentions of ruling or mastering any species.
I've read the book via print and via audiobook.
The audiobook allowed me to focus more on the emotion of the book, and possibly was even harder for me to get through.
I was previously familiar with the material from having seen the Bill Travers/Virginia McKenna film of the same name, although I was pleased to find this was a much darker, more realistic, less Disney-fied version of the story.In essence, Gavin Maxwell became a hermit, moving to the wilds of the western Scottish Highlands and acquiring a couple of otters to keep as pets.
The story is by turns dramatic, funny, and tragic, and had me in tears a couple of times (I'm a big softie when it comes to animal stuff).
If you liked this book, you might also enjoy:✱ My Family and Other Animals✱ Menagerie Manor✱ The Dog Who Wouldn't Be✱ Owls in the Family✱ All Creatures Great and Small
Get out your Kleenex! This is a tear jerker. Always wanted an otter as a child, as an adult I know that's not the best idea for the animal, but still spend hours at the zoo or aquarium watching them whenever I have the chance. They made an outstanding movie based on this book.
A wonderful book to read when you are neither here, nor there. Eye opening. Good to read before bed. Not much substance, except for the substance of place, which is vivid, and the relationship between an otter and a human.
I've already sobbed like a broken woman at the death of Johnny the spaniel. Goodness knows how I'll cope once we get to the otter death that wounded me when I saw the film as a child.
I read this as a young girl and was struck by the beauty of writing and the story itself. I have read many books but not many have stayed with me the way this one has.
Heartwarming and touching story. Should be on everybody's "To Read" list.
Three years ago when I first visited Scotland I watched the wonderful (if more fictional) adaptation of this book.
So of course I couldn't resist picking up a beautiful 1961 copy when I saw it in Oxfam books, Stirling.
The illustrations and photos are priceless - do not get a copy without them!
I have to preface the fact that I love this book (and the film) to bits by stating that it has not aged well in terms of ethics towards animals.
I do not excuse it for this, Maxwell was writing in the 1950s not the 1850s and should have known better.
Extremely interesting and engaging, this book details how Gavin Maxwell first fell in love with the otter and began his fascinating journey in caring for them. If you like animals, nature, Scotland, cold beaches and/or memoirs of unusual people then this book will be of interest to you.
Maxwell's account is only far fetched in that it appeals to a passion for wildlife that anybody who has experienced enough of it will understand; the whole reason a person wants a pet that refuses to be trained is because it is a wild animal, and by training and domesticating it, the owner takes away from that animal the freedom it was given by nature of its birth.
I like Maxwell's writing style and the tone of his stories, he is both disarming and cautious in the telling of humbling stories, as if the reader were an expert otter handler he is embarrassed to be admitting his shame to, yet I can't quite accept the decision to keep and train a wild animal.
After reading a few reviews that said things pick up after a few chapters, I decided to stick it out a while longer.
His sheer joy at having an otter, not so much as a pet (he comes to discover rather quickly that otters aren’t like dogs: “they co-exist with humans rather than being owned by them”), but as the most important relationship in his life, is infectious, and it’s no surprise that this book seemingly created an entire generation of naturalists.---[1] Kathleen Raine jarringly gets a one sentence passing reference half-way through that makes it clear she was a hugely important figure in the story, but otherwise is excised entirely.
This series of anecdotes concerning a man and his pet otters is disquieting to me.
Reading it, I feel for the animals, I guess.
Maxwell seems to really love animals, but his experimental way of handling them seems to bely that at times.
Animals in his care are often seriously hurt or even die.
I just can't get over feeling from everything he writes that an otter is simply a wild creature that does not make an appropriate pet.
The writing style is very simple, but not off-putting exactly.
At the begining of the book I found it quite hard going. Very descriptive of scenery and for me it dragged. I was desperate to hear about the otter and he didn't appear until after page 40. However once he started getting into Mij and his antics and how he coped with living with an otter it was a fantastic read. For those non animals lovers I don't know how much if at all this book would appeal to you but I enjoyed it and will be reading no.2 soon.
I think this book has to be in my absolute top ten of all time. There is something timeless about this book, and the core tenets (love and loyalty) are universal and translate across the decades. The sense of place you get from Maxwells writing is amazing and the sentiment is palpable. A must have for anyone with a love of both good stories and animals.
סיפור אמתי על גאווין שעובר להתגורר בבית מבודד על חוף הים עם לוטרה מבויתת.סיפור על אהבת טבע ובעלי חיים.(ההערות של המתרגמת שמביאות כל שם במקור האנגלי מיותרות ופוגעות ברצף הקריאה)
Jag vill också ha en utter...
Exquisite, lyrical writing. The beginning was a little slow, hence why it took me so long to finish. But the second half races by and overall is well worth reading because of the pure joy conveyed in the descriptions and anecdotes.
In fact, I remember reading the study notes the night before the exam to find out what happened at the end of the book, but promptly falling asleep.
Fortunately I was able to avoid any questions on the book and passed the exam.
The first half of the book details Gavin Maxwell's absolute delight in living in the West Highlands of Scotland.
The second half introduces us to Mijbil and then Edal after Mij's death, the two otters he had as pets.
Their antics, and the perils and pitfalls - but also incredible rewards - of having otters as pets, were simply delightful.
I'm fairly sure that I enjoyed this book when I read it as a teenager.
As for his credentials as a naturalist, well, his chief claim to fame was that he 'acquired' wild animals and turned them into pets.
This book is full of funny little anecdotes, but a scientific enquiry it is not.
Just a bit of a tale about a rich bloke who wanted to have a little zoo of his own.
I'm glad we no longer live in a world where wild animals are treated like this by so-called naturalists.
"Hailed a masterpiece when it was first published, the story of Gavin Maxwell's life with otters on the remote west coast of Scotland remains one of the most lyrical, moving descriptions of a man's relationship with the natural world."I was so disappointed in this book!
All the rave reviews, and the wild coast of Scotland -- what's not to like.
The descriptions of Camusfearna and the wild sea lochs of Western Scotland were good, but not lyrical.Regardless, I'm at least going to try The Rocks Remain, the second book in the trilogy.
Though I loved the description of the island and the otters, I felt that the author only cared for the animals in a selfish way - removing them from their homes & ability to reproduce, their instincts & life cycles, thus limiting their ecosystems and their species.
He often, in fact, loves the animals to death - how many otters die so he can have a pet?
Still, my sensibilities are more modern; the book dates from the '50s, I believe.It's also amazing that the author has such time and funds to accommodate his lifestyle - it's unclear if he ever works a day through the whole book.
Another book where it goes somewhere completely different about halfway through. This book -- written in the late 1950s -- is brilliant. The author is a magnificent prose stylist, and his descriptions of the far, wild, western edge of Scotland are absolutely gorgeous. About halfway through, however, the book becomes entirely about his adoption of and subsequent trials with an otter he brought back from the persian gulf... an interesting, amusing, and even touching story, but very different from the sweeping prose of the first bunch of chapters. If it had been more even, I'd have gone to 5 stars.
