https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74397.The_Life_and_Extraordinary_Adventures_of_Private_Ivan_Chonkin
Short, bowlegged, big red ears, field shirt sticking out over his belt, Private Ivan Chonkin, the hero of Vladimir Voinovich’s novel, has been likened to Jaroslav Hašek's The Good Soldier Švejk, and for good reason – like Švejk, Chonkin is an everyman forever at war with the forces - political, military, social, whatever - that use the iron fist of power in an attempt to obliterate a person’s unique individuality and humanity.Squarely in the great tradition of satire and the absurdist fiction of Gogol, Kharms and Zabolotsky, with The Life & Extraordinary Adventures of Private Ivan Chonkin Vladimir Voinovich served up enough anti-Soviet zingers to contribute to his eventually getting kicked out of the country and stripped of his citizenship.The storyline is simple: a pilot of a Soviet aircraft makes a forced landing in the farming village of Krasnoye near his Air Force base.
It's a farce; and it kept me smiling then laughing, at a little sly humor or at outright buffoonery.Skewering the communist system: A meeting is an arrangement whereby a large number of people gather together, some to say what they really do not think, some not to say what they really do.Or the foolishness of war: Chonkin did not learn about what had happened (Barbarossa) immediately because he was sitting in the outhouse, in no hurry to leave.The laugh out loud part is when, through a misunderstanding, a Russian officer escaping from Chonkin is thought by other Russian officials to be a German soldier.
Charming slapstick comedy about a dopey Ivan-the-Fool and his adventures in the Soviet Union right before the German invasion in 1941. I laughed at the extreme situations that our Ivan finds himself in (view spoiler)[(somehow arresting 7 secret police officers, drinking an alcohol made of fermented feces), (hide spoiler)] but just the little throw away details are funny too. I laughed at the man in the beginning who has bread so hard and stiff he could cut things with it, and the very naughty rumors about a pet pig.
Sent to guard an aeroplane that was forced to land in a village, the dumbest soldier in the Red Army becomes the cleverest man for miles around.
There he finds true love in the shape of the cleverest woman in the village (view spoiler)[ a woman who is beautifully described as ' literate', to contextualise her response in a moment of crisis (hide spoiler)] which plainly is right and appropriate.
Yikes! How does this have such a bad "rating?" This book is hilarious! Every sentence and every page is tickle your tummy funny. Voinovich channels Gogol's anti-hero Chichikov in Chonkin, a petty soldier sent to guard a broken down airplane in the middle of nowhere. His troubles start with a cow... and get more and more ridiculous!
Unlike Solzhenitsyn, Voinovich adopts a cynical, tragicomical tone; thus, this story can be seen as a Russian take on Jaroslav Hasek's The Good Soldier Svejk and His Fortunes in the World War. Poorly educated and easily dumbfounded, Chonkin is perhaps a less lovable character than Svejk; it is perhaps because of this that Voinovich makes his story take surreal and oneiric turns.
What I disliked about this work is the rather thin story---much thinner than in Moscow 2042, by the same author---, the lack of powerful characters---a characteristic of Voinovich's work, as far as I can tell---, and the often rough wording---Voinovich is no Russian classic.
Private Chonkin is breezy and hilarious read about a quixotic failure of a hero that serves as a compendium of communist dunderheads, snollygosters, lickspittles, boozers and bedpressers.
But style aside – unseating the power of communist oppression shouldn't be a laughing matter but something tells me that the day Voinovich learned of his loss of Russian citizenship there was probably more than a few laughs in his house.
So add Gogol’s wit, Swift’s social criticism, Zoschenko’s humor in the face of oppression that is shared by Orkeny and you’ll get something very much like Voinovich.
This shares a space on my shelf next to Moscow to the End of the Line as the most hilariously entertaining Russian books I've read.
This book probably wouldn’t mean anything to those who don’t know the history of the USSR.
The absurdity of life brilliantly portrayed in this book is founded on the evil reality of the socialist system.
What I had on my mind throughout was the realization that few today understand the scourge of this system of government.
Today Cuba is chic, Venezuela is courageous, China should be emulated.
Didn’t find this book as humorous as I expected.
It tells the tale of a simpleton Russian soldier named Ivan Chonkin who is sent to guard a plane that came down in the village of Krasnoye.
A detachment of NKVD -- the predecessors of the KGB -- is sent to arrest him, and is arrested in turn by Chonkin.
More and more people from headquarters start showing up.The end is a hilarious confrontation when the imprisoned NKVD officer is in turn imprisoned by the Russian army, who mistake him for a German.
Stalin kaputt!" Vladimir Voinovich has, in Chonkin created a classic of humor comparable to Hasek's The Good Soldier Svejk.
Сталин 1956 онд үхсэн.
Харин цэрэг Чонкины намтар 1961-1963 рны хооронд бичигдсэн гэхээр Сталины тахин шүтэгдэлийг эсэргүүцэн гарч ирсэн Хрушевийн үеийн зохиол юм уу даа.
Сталины үед бол эхний догол мөрөөсөө л зохиогчоо цаазлуулах ялд унагачих бүрэн чадалтай энэ хоржоонт романыг Войнович бичиж зүрхэлсэн нь нэгт Сталин үхсэн, хоёрт Хрушев Сталиныг хурцаар шүүмжилж гарч ирснийх болов уу.
Тиймдээ ч нөхөр Сталиныг гахай болгож махыг нь зооглох, эсвэл эм хүн, ижил хүйстэн болгох зэрэг аймшиггүй бичлэгүүд амилсан биз.
Гэвч Сталиныг егөөдсөн Войновичийн хурц бичлэг дотор коммунистуудыг хонгоноос нь ирсэн, социалист нийгмийн алдаа дутагдлыг илчилсэн хур санаа явж буй.
Tik asu satīru par 2. pasaules karu vēl nebiju lasījis. Smieklu koeficients arī labs, lai gan diezgan liela daļa grāmatas ir atkāpes dažādās smieklīguma/sasaistes pakāpēs. Uzzināju arī, kāpēc zirgi nekļuva par cilvēkiem.
A witty, fun Soviet Satire. Only 311 pages and not too intimidating, I inhaled this book and enjoyed it a lot. If you like The Master and Margarita you will also like this book!
Private Chonkin has frequently been called the Schweik of Stalinist Russia. Like Schweik he uses his extraordinary stupidity to outwit his persecutors. Unfortunately, for Chonkin Stalin's communist apparatchiks were far more skilled persecutors than Franz Joseph's Imperial bureaucrats. Whereas Schweik survives and prospers, Chonkin inevitably is dispatched to the Gulag.Gogol and Bulgakov are the only two Russian writers that I am aware of who possess the same level of talent in comic writing as Voinovich. This book is great fun and highly recommended for anyone who has an interest in Stalin's Russia.
Very good book with a lot of cool moments like people having dreams about animals turning into people, the guy who was crossbreeding potatoes and tomatoes and made manure vodka, the old Jewish guy whose last name was Stalin, etc
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
It's one of the funniest and wittiest books I've ever read!
Mida aga edasi seda huvitamaks see jutuveeretamine muutus ja olgugi et väljareklaamitud "vene Švejkist" oli asi ikka väga kaugel, hakkas üha enam ja enam halastamatut ja varjamatut antisovetšinat välja joonistuma.
Irvitati kõige üle, niivõrd kuivõrd 1941.
aastal kui kogu hiigelriik ägises NKVD raudses haardes üldse millegi üle irvitada sai.
Aga sai, näiteks kui umbes kolmveerand raamatust oli mul parimal juhul kerge poolmuie, siis lõpuosas näiteks õnnetu kapten Miljaga oma "Heil, tovaarišš Hitler'iga" pani ikka juba laginal naerma.Algul mõtlesin et loen läbi, võtan teadmiseks ja unustan, aga vaevalt läbi saadud kui juba sai raamatukogust just-just ilmunud teine osa laenutatud.
Me pareció bien, pero creo que el error fue mío, esperaba mucho de él, es una novela que inició muy 
Una estupenda historia en la que el soldado Iván Chonkin resulta que no es tan tonto como parecía en
Wenn man nach langer Zeit wieder einmal eine russische Humoreske zur Hand nimmt, muss man sich wieder an den genüsslich-weitschweifigen Stil gewöhnen. Aber überraschend schnell nimmt der Roman an Fahrt auf. Was zunächst wie eine russisch-dörfliche Klamotte beginnt, wird zu einem drastisch-mutigen Umschreiben der Geschichte. Uderzo lässt die Römer verdreschen, Tarantino tötet im Nachhinein Hitler, und bei Woinowitsch bekommen NKWD und Rote Armee ihr Fett weg.Die Leichtigkeit, mit der sich am Ende alle absurden Handlungsstränge verknüpfen, ist meisterhaft. Auch bei humoristischen Romanen lache ich selten laut. Hier konnte ich manchmal vor Freude nicht mehr an mich halten.
It must be that the language of the original cannot really be translated into English. Or else you have to be a lot more familiar with Russian history and individual politicians/soldiers to understand who is being parodied. I found this amusing but not as devastatingly funny and cutting as other reviews have stated.
This is among the funniest books I've read. You do need some background knowledge about the political situation of Russia in 1940 to appreciate the humor, but if you have general interest and understanding of the Soviet era, I recommend this book highly. As a comparison, to a much more popular "12 chairs" book, I found this one a lot funnier.
Pelo início do livro, pensei que fosse ser mais hilariante. A parte final foi a mais engraçada, quase que terminava de uma forma positiva, mas uma reviravolta final desiludiu-me, embora tenha percebido a intenção do autor: a sátira ao regime totalitário da União Soviética da época da 2ª guerra.
Первые 2 части прочитались на одном дыхании. В третьей части сюжет к Ченкину возращается в самом конце. На мой взгляд автор переборщил с гротесском на тему Сталина и лошади, порой бывало скучно. Настоящая антисоветчина. С какой-то стороны актуальна и по сей день.
I was laughing so hard during the last one hundred pages that I could hardly breathe.
very funny book
I started this and laughed...for some reason never finished it. Need to go back.
The Russian Good Soldier Svejk. Gets extra marks because the author smuggled Life and Fate out of the Soviet Union.
There is, however, plenty of humor in a guy finding out he just drank a glass of human shit.The Life and Extraordinary Adventures of Private Ivan Chonkin is a very funny book as well as an impressive satirical depiction of the pre-WW2 USSR.
Voinovich has created a vibrant collective farm filled with citizens who, despite their exaggerated, comical personalities, struggle with many of the real problems faced by Russian peasants throughout the reign of Stalin.Voinovich is at his funniest when writing about dreams.
Voinovich was a significant voice as a Soviet dissident and one of the funniest writers in the USSR or anywhere else, so I highly recommend reading (and laughing at) all he created.
Zijn roman De merkwaardige lotgevallen van soldaat Ivan Tsjonkin (1975) kun je keer op keer herlezen om telkens weer om iets anders te moeten schaterlachen....„Hun hoop is gevestigd op een sterke leider die voor rechtvaardigheid zorgt en met ijzeren hand regeert”, zei hij.
„Een leider die zegt wat ze moeten doen en hoe ze moeten leven.” [2002]Ook had hij een verklaring voor de onderdanigheid van zijn landgenoten: „Het kost tijd om van een voormalige totalitaire staat een normaal land te maken.
Eerst moet het Sovjet-gedrag verdwijnen dat zeventig jaar heeft bestaan.
Voor hen bestonden alleen de ongeschreven regels van het leven.
