https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/975119.Close_Encounters_of_the_Third_Kind
I picked up this book the same weekend thinking it would be impossible to recreate the experience in fictional form.
Of course, it is impossible to capture the visual grandeur and wonder of this trans-formative film, not to mention the soaring dramatic beauty of John William's masterful score.
A well-done adaption of a powerful, classic film.I had always assumed this book (like the "Star Wars" novelization at the time) had been ghost written by Alan Dean Foster or someone of similar stature.
But I came across several vintage interviews with Spielberg including one done by Roger Ebert in 1977 that provide evidence it was indeed the bearded one himself who wrote this novel and not a ghost writer.
Basically like reading the movie. I enjoyed it despite the bad writing, but I don't know that I'd really recommend it to someone.
Whether you’ve seen the film or not, I highly recommend finding a copy in a second hand book shop, or your gran’s attic. As a sci-fi lover myself, I couldn’t put it down. Just a fantastic classic plot, which I can’t find fault in.
Loved the story —just like the film, except for a few details—, hated the Spanish translation. But, well, it's a book from 1978 that I found in my grandparents' house and that you cannot even buy anymore, so who am I to complain.
"... al igual que Romeo y Julieta no es solo una historia de amor, ni El Hobbit solo la historia de unas criaturas fantásticas, Spielberg no es un cualquiera escribiendo sobre extraterrestres y no es un libro más al respecto". Más en https://capitulocuarto.com/2018/05/30...
I didn't see the movie, so I didn't have any reference. The book was a bit boring, but the ending was unexpected.
Reading it in novel form also gives you additional time to wonder at the character of Roy Neary, himself so enamored of kidnapping aliens that he never really gives his wife or children a second thought as he steps into their spacecraft and leaves earth for possibly the last time.
Would the story have caught on if Dryfuss had not made Neary so likable, despite his lunacy?I did enjoy the novel's elaboration on Lacombe and his crew of mysterious federal UFO chasers.
A fine read for Spielberg fans, but not worth slogging through verse pulling up the movie on Netflix.
DNF at 48%I just couldn't get into the writing style. It's obvious based on what I've read that Steven Spielberg is a fantastic director, but the prose of the novelization just didn't flow right and it made this book a chore for me to read. Descriptive imagery seemed like non sequiturs and I generally wasn't a fan of the lack of non-"bitchy" or weak female characters. I thought that it would be an interesting experience to read this book before I watched the film but clearly, I should always start with the source material first. Oh well, c'est la vie.
- رواية ممتعة لدرجة كبير، وبها جرعة كبيرة جدا من الغموض بالإضافة لمكون لايستهان به من الإثارة.- خبرة "سبيلبرج" في الإخراج كانت له خير معين في وصف المشاهد بدقة زادت عن اللازم في بعض الأحيان.- عدم الاحتكاك المباشر بالكائنات الفضائية أعطى لها تميزا عن مئات القصص التي تتحدث عن نفس الموضوع. كما أن نهاية القصة كانت ممتازة وغير تقليدية بالمرة.- اختصارا، رواية جميلة جدا وتستحق القراءة
I saw the movie Close Encounters of the Third Kind for the first time about two months ago, and I remember wondering if there was a book (being an avid reader, this is usually a question I always have after watching a movie).
After some research, I found that there was a Close Encounters of the Third Kind book.
So, I added to my "to be read" list and went on with my life.
I did have a slight fear of the book not being as good as the movie, but I was soon comforted by realizing that the book is just like the movie.
5 stars are given to "Close Encounters of the Third Kind" written by Steven Spielberg...basically if you have seen the movie, you have read the book.
The publisher was Columbia Pictures so I have to imagine that Spielberg was writing directly from the script, notes, storyboards, etc....and having directed the film doesn't hurt either.
It is such a wonderful film that the novel is just as wonderful an experience.
There are a few surprises...one or two adult moments...and a short epilogue from Dr. T.
Allen Hynek, Director, Center for UFO Studies which is interesting just by itself.
Great novel...greater film...enjoy them both this Halloween season!
I'll be honest. I haven't seen the movie in quite some time. After reading the novelization of it, I'm definitely going to watch it again. The story was even better than I remember it! Also, reading a story based in the late seventies was a treat with some of the references in the book. I would highly recommend this book if you enjoyed the movie!
The book is a nice expansion to the movie, to read about the thoughts the characters were having during some of the more intense moments. I'm not sure if the book would work as well as a stand alone novel, but for fans of the movie it's a fun read.
مجموعة من الاشخاص يتعرضون لتجربة غريبه حيث يظهر لهم حلم بمكان لم يذرو من قبل ونغمات خمسه يسمعوها باستمرار . الى جانب اضواء غامظة من المساء وانقطاع الكرباء فى مناطق عديدهالموضوع له بكائنات من العالم الاخرلم تعجبنى الروايه لان الترجمة لم توصل لى الابهار البصر الذى نراه بالافلام
I’m not sure if the book came before or after the film but if you liked the movie you’ll enjoy the book. They are pretty much the same. It was well written, very tense and exciting. It did seem to miss the awe of the movie though. Still a fun and easy #scifi read when you need a fix.
Whilst it may be a good movie, it does not mean it is a good book. It felt very stilted and it did not flow., pretty ordinary and without the movie forgettable.
Basically the book is a successful recreation of the movie.
I happened to spot it at a library book sale and thought it would be fun to read.
Although usually you expect the book to provide details far beyond the movie and I prefer reading the book first.
This book dutifully recreated the movie which is probably the correct thing to do since the movie was already a big success.
I enjoyed the book.
Although the last sentence seems to imply the end of our world - "Jillian took one last picture of it all, the last of the most important pictures in the history of the world." In the movie I assumed this story was just beginning.
حينما اقرأ رواية ل مخرج "ستيفن سبيلبيرج"  :D بعد ان شاهدت فيلم ل مؤلف " ستيفن كينج"...غضب ستيفن كينج من عدم جودة تحويل افكار روايات الرعب وا لاثارة الخاصة به ل افلام ف قام باخراج افلام عن رواياته بنفسه ...كذلك فعل ستيفن سبيلبيرج حينما قام بابتكار قصة و رواية خاصة و قام بتحوليها ل فيلم و لاا اروع لاحقا ....كانت من اول الافلام او الروايات ...التى تتحدث عن لقاء البشر ب الفضائيين....
Steven Spielberg osoittaa tällä elokuvakäsikirjoitukseen perustuvalla kirjallaan, miksi hän on yksi maailman parhaimpia elokuvaohjaajia ja tarinan kertojia.
Tarinassa perheenisä Roy Neary törmää outoihin ilmiöihin, jotka saavat hänessä aikaan pakkomielteisen kiinnostumisen ufoihin, jonka seurauksena hän unohtaa oman perheensä olemassaolon.
Roy saa potkut töistä ja pakkomielteisen vision mielessään näkyvästä vuoresta, joka johdattaa hänet lopulta ufojen luokse uudelleen.
Spielberg pystyy kertomaan jännittävän ja ylättävän koskettavan tarinan ihmiskunnan ja avaruudesta saapuvan toisen kulttuurin rauhanomaisesta kohtaamisesta.
Ja tämä kaiken hän tekee hyvin ekonomisesti, sillä teksti on tiivistä.
Tarinan keskeisin sanoma on sen lähes uskonnollisessa, messiaanisessa sanomassa, jossa ajatus pelastavasta avaruusolennosta on lohduttavampi ja uskottavampi kuin ajatus pelastavasta Jumalasta.
Close Encounters, yang filmnya dirilis tahun 1977, adalah salah satu film sci-fi terbaik dan paling personal (bersanding dengan E.T, Jurasic Park, dan A.I) yang pernah saya tonton.
Bagaimana dengan versi novelnya?Oke, Spielberg mengeluarkan segala daya dan upaya yang ia punya untuk membuat film ini (sebagai sutradara, produser, dan penulis naskah!).
Tapi versi novelnya seperti tidak mampu mencapai itu.
Bukan bacaan yang buruk (saya tetap fans nya) tapi karakter-karakter dalam buku ini seperti tak mampu menyentuh kualitas yg pernah ada dalam filmnya; terlalu cepat, terlalu singkat.
Apapun itu, ini buku yang asyik dibaca di sore hari sambil minum kopi kemudian menutupnya dan menyimpannya kembali ke dalam rak untuk tidak pernah dibaca lagi.
Έχοντας δει την ταινία, πριν αρκετό καιρό βέβαια οπότε δεν θυμάμαι και τα πάντα, ήξερα πάνω κάτω τι θα γίνει και θυμόμουν αρκετές σκηνές, οπότε δεν ήταν ένα βιβλίο από το οποίο περίμενα εκπλήξεις.
Η γραφή μου φάνηκε αρκετά καλή, σε μερικά σημεία μάλιστα πολύ καλή, ενώ περίμενα να ήταν κάπως επίπεδη και βαρετή.
Γενικά σαν βιβλίο είναι αρκετά αξιόλογο, όχι απλώς ένα "άνοστο" screenplay με πολλούς διαλόγους και ελάχιστες περιγραφές, αλλά δεν ήταν και κάτι το συγκλονιστικό, ούτε μάθαινες περισσότερα πράγματα από την ταινία.
Όσοι έχετε το βιβλίο και δεν έχετε δει την ταινία, νομίζω ότι είναι καλύτερα να δείτε την ταινία πρώτα.
A pretty good novelization of the movie.
Possibly not by Spielberg himself (Alan Dean Foster, perhaps?).
This plot is sort of like that of all three movie versions combined, with a couple of additional scenes.
In 1980, When the "Special Edition" of the film was released, a "Special Edition" of this book was also released.
It's okay, it's entertaining, and an easy fast read, but really not different from the classic landmark film in any appreciable way.
Most of the scenes are best appreciated unfolding on the big screen.
This famous book I found in a collection of free books from our nice used bookstore that closed a few months ago.
Given the fame of the movie (which I also saw, years ago), I expected a better read than I got.
For the first 1/3 I was just about to stop reading.
It wasn't at all clear what was going on (to me---though given that I'd seen the movie, I had some idea).
However, after that, the story got much more engrossing.
So...I can't give it rave reviews, but it was perfect for reading while waiting in an airport, which is exactly what I was doing for the second half!
مشكلة روايات الخيال العلمى انها لا تصلح للقراءة مثل مشاهدتها افلاما ، فالكاتب يقول ثم انبعث ضوء برتق
Let me be clear: the movie is fantastic. The book, however, is almost a word-for-word reproduction of the script. In fact, I would not be surprised at all to learn that some ghost writer of middling talent converted the screenplay into novel form. The book does absolutely nothing to expand on the film, nor is the writing particularly inspired or vivid. Most of the time the book is better than the film. This is the exception. Just watch the film and enjoy the good acting and fantastic special effects.
Based upon the movie, this book is basically a telling of what happened in the movie with little more added. I don't see what the point was here. When we read books we're looking for something more, the inner voice of the characters, the internal struggle that can't been seen on screen. There's little of that here. Although the movie was great and the book then is pretty good, I'd suggest just watching the movie.
This is the novelization of one of my favorite movies. I rather like novelizations, I like getting that little bit of extra insight about characters and stories. This one however, followed the movie exactly, with no extras. Honestly, I would rather watch the movie, the amazing visuals and music are a large part of what I love in the movie, and the descriptions of the scenes pales in comparison to seeing them.
I can see why Spielberg is in the movies. This book is one case where the movie is better, mostly because the narrative was simply what happened and didn't express the characters thoughts or feelings as well as they could be expressed in the medium of movies. It was still good though, probably a 2 star more because of my expectations being high. If I had known nothing about this book it would have been maybe a 3 star, a good story but it could have been told better.
There is a certain point in time where a story supersedes the mechanics. Spielberg is good for a story, and while the read was fast, it was very much like reading a screenplay. Everything was very simplistic and matter-of-fact. If I had not seen the movie (in an outdoor theater on a cold and windy night), I doubt I would have stuck with reading the book. The nostalgia brought back from my movie experience definitely lent credit and rigor to my slog through the narrative.
A great novel can make a great screenplay, but far less the reverse. Much like watching a movie based on a read book, reading the novelization of a movie you have seen forces a comparison. In this case, Spielberg put his heart and craft onto the screen, and a thin, flat version on paper. Had he officially handed the novelization over to someone else (did he use a ghostwriter?), am established sci-fi writer, the book could have been every bit as strong as the movie.
