https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140723.Maigret_in_Montmartre

This might, on reflection, be a slide towards the kind of resigned and morally free-floating society that Sjowall and Wahloo are so quietly critical of, but it makes for much more interesting and realistic reading.I got less of an impression here that Simenon was rushing through a quick draft than I did from the Yellow Dog, but there were still plenty of things that came up in the investigation that had no bearing on the case.
Again, this is a much more realistic approach to police detecting and it felt more deliberate here.
It also has some humour with a local policeman unable to manage the case in his own backyard because of Maigret's involvement but that doesn't stop Detective Lognon trying to break the case.Simenon is a clever and almost unique story-teller in the genre.
На мало страна уверљиво приказан живот Париског полусвета. Не разумем зашто су у Лагуни решили да почну са 36-том књигом?!
My last book of the year 2016 is the nastiest 'Maigret' novel I have yet read.
Brilliantly atmospheric, deliriously paced, as entertaining and evocative as always, it features perhaps the least noble villain I have yet encountered in any of these books.
There is an unfortunate touch of homophobia in this 1951 story that made me wince a little, but Simenon is rarely anything other than understanding about all sectors of society, which makes this aspect in this particular novel an anomaly.
In fact he claimed that "understand and judge not" was the one characteristic he shared with his fictional detective chief inspector and generally this is true.
Relativno kratka detektivska priča, u kojoj pisac stalno drži fokus na slučaj. Bez nepotrebnih bezveznih priča, pa ni neverovatnih tvistova koje bi za cilj imale samo povećan broj strana. Solidna knjiga.
A classic Maigret with his sharp observations on human nature, his occasional wit and plenty of beer to drink, all the while he hunts Montmartre for a rather traditional kind of killer. No twisty turns here, but a touch of homophobia which leaves a bad taste after finishing this book!My Rating - 3/5
prima o poi doveva succedere che un Maigret non mi piacesse
A light but satisfying read, which I devoured in an hour or three.
Having first seen the French TV series starring Bruno Cremer, and later a BBC version with Michael Gambon (and Minnie Driver as the unfortunate dancer), it was interesting to see how faithful both dramas were to the original text.
Of course, the BBC drama did copy the French TV film very closely, almost frame for frame at times.
Why did a stripper feel the need to turn in a drunken complaint about a possible murder--only to retract it a few hours later?
Oh bliss!
a new mystery writer whose wonderful policiers aren't full to the brim with the blood and guts that seems to mark the majority of crime writers - these books by Simenon are subtle, slow and full to the brim with wit and joie de vivre and my do you feel like you are traversing the streets of Paris as you follow Maigret to the scene of the crime and best of all - like my current favourites Camilleri and Arnaldur Indridason - there's a melancholy feel to these splendid books - I've gobbled up six and there are loads more to find and savour!
No defrauda Simenon. Una excelente novelita, como suele con un gran desarrollo y un final algo apresurado. Escenas impagables, que justifican ellas solas el libro como la de Maigret en un local de strip-tease compartiendo una sopa caliente con los dueños y la bailarina que acaba de desnudarse..El mantel es a cuadros rojos.
Yet another classic Maigret. Some loose ends but never mind. Sleuthing, tragedy, a bit of comedy and, as always, a sympathetic view of the human condition. A bit of homophobia that was neither pleasant nor necessary, but no doubt part of the prevailing sentiment of the times. Deplorable, given Simenon's friendship with Andre Gide and others.
Hell, Oscar Wilde DIED 50 years before this novel came up.
Of course you are not under the obligation of advocating for every single social cause when you're a writer, but maybe don't contribute to the hating?
Omission is still better than blatant prejudice.That said, if you're looking for a quick read, maybe this series of books is for you.
The writing is very simple, not really captivating, but just interesting enough to keep you going.This particular instalment is about a murder investigation, and half the scenes are set in a Parisian cabaret, back when Montmartre was all about art and profanity.Could have been a 4-star novel, but homophobia got in the way.
Maigret is investigating two murders.
The dancer had attempted to warn the police about the risk of the second murder before it was committed, but with what turned out to be inadequate information to prevent it.
The relationship between the Parisian police and the inhabitants of the colourful nightlife of post war Paris is well described, and the police methods used to track down the culprit and bring him to justice is thrilling.
Maigret is very comfortable in this world - so much so he makes the dancer's nightclub his headquarters during the final part of the book when he is closing in on the murderer.
Had to read this wonderful Maigret novel again after watching the awful television version this Christmas.
If you have to watch a version of this, chose the brilliant Michael Gambon version from the 1980s(?).This book is short, beautifully and sparingly written, and takes you into the heart of the seedy night club life of Paris.
Wonderful.The GR blurb:'It is four o'clock in the morning and out of the rain-slick cobbled streets of Montmartre appears a garishly dressed young woman.
It takes two brutal stranglings and a beautiful corpse to lead Maigret, assisted by a lovelorn detective, into an all-too-familiar underworld where he traces a desperate eroticism to its inevitable conclusion.'
A drunk exotic dancer working in an American-style burlesque show tips off police that she’s overheard a plot to kill a duchess for her jewelry. The police give the woman (who goes by the stage name Arlette) such a hard time that an exhausted Arlette recants her story just so she can go home. Just a few hours later, she’s found strangled.First published in English in 1951 and previously released in English under the titles of  Maigret and the Strangled Stripper, Maigret at Montmatre and Inspecto
A drunk exotic dancer working in an American-style burlesque show tips off police that she’s overheard a plot to kill a duchess for her jewelry.
Just a few hours later, she’s found strangled.First published in English in 1951 and previously released in English under the titles of 	Maigret and the Strangled Stripper, Maigret at Montmatre and Inspector Maigret and the Strangled Stripper, Georges Simenon’s 36th Maigret novel will strike some readers 70 years later as dated with its harsh portrayal of gay men and women; however, I chalked it up to the era.
How grateful I am that Penguin Books and Audible Studios are gradually re-releasing every one of the Maigret novels!
My wife has been after me for some time to read the Simenon classics and I gave in.
Now I am reading them like I'm eating popcorn.
In this novel a mysterious young stripper, Arlett, casts a spell on one of Maigret's detectives, along with most men she meets.
She comes to the station after work and tells Maigret that she has overheard two men planning to rob and perhaps kill a countess, but who.
Next day and old ex-courtesan and druggies, called the countess, is strangled.
Arlett had mentioned "Oscar" but is it him or Phillipe, a friend of the countess?
My first and favourite Maigret, of whom up till now I read 6-7, besides some Simenon's novels that do not feature famous detective.It is a story of Paris underworld, demi-monde included; of poor people on the run from their homes, from their own past and from the real people who are trying to hunt them down.
It is also story of love, beauty, innocence, dreams, but also of lust, helplesness and jealousy.
Maigret himself, although leading respectable and unassuming existence, is a figure who very well knows human heart and human condition and very often does not hide his sympathy for outcasts with golden hearts.
This is the first Georges Simenon novel I have read and although I enjoyed the book I am not sure that I will rush out to buy another.
As previous reviewers have stated the sense of place, the seediness of Montmarte's underworld and its' characters, club owners, club customers, drug dealers and takers are all easily conjured up in your mind because of Simenon's descriptions.
The atmosphere of the place was beautifully described.
What let the story down for me was the plot, somehow it just didn't gel.
However the writing and Simenon's descriptions were really good, hence four stars.
This is the first book about maigret I have read , not impressed! I think that is partly because I did not know the characters and there was very little introduction to the main ones who appear in the other books in the series. The main issue I think is that it is a book of its time and does not fit into our open, liberal 21st century - interesting to read as a historical novel but no comparison with modern detective novels.
The linked murders of a stripper and a dissolute countess allows Simenon to explore the demi monde of Pigalle which he does expertly: the nightlife is a counterlife but it is still home to a lot of people. Less than four stars though because the capture of the criminal is a rather tedious, in the end irrelevant, tail through Paris. Irrelevant because the info that leads to the bad guy comes from someone inside the nightclubs circle.
Another seedy tale from Simenon. More concerned as ever with police procedure and human behaviour, rather than tying everything up like Poirot would. Though he plays around with that end of book summation in the scenes in the night club where Maigret is almost casually chatting with the night club owners.Not known for his humour, Simenon ends the book with a joke.
Arlette, a beautiful stripper at Picratt’s in Montmartre, reports to the police an overhead plan to kill a countess. Despite some investigation, the police cannot confirm her claim. Shortly, Arlette is founded murdered. The next day, a countess is found dead. Maigret investigates in the seedier side of Paris.
Een typische Maigret.De verfilming met Rowan Atkinson volgt het plot tot het begin van de ontknoping. Van dan af loopt alles helemaal anders, misschien wel omdat het boek daar weinig spannend en eerder vervelend is.
Another enjoyable Maigret.
Lurid nightlife revealed as Maigret exposes the killer like a performer at a peep show.
One of the best.
Unfortunately homophobic. Otherwise an atmospheric mystery in Montmartre, where the Maigret novels are often most inspired.
The attitudes toward women, gay men, rape, and violence in this book are repulsive, and the mystery is not solved clearly by the end.
Perus-Maigret. Tarina on jokseenkin viihdyttävä.
