https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/181960.Three_Came_Home
Keith is still processing and still recovering as she writes, and I believe that becomes more and more clear as you move further through the story.Unique to this account of a POW experience is that Keith's toddler, George, is imprisoned with her, along with over 30 other children.
The result was bitterness and hardness of heart, which she acknowledged.I finished reading Keith's story and was struck that this treasure, this personal suffering courageously exposing the worst of a person's life that we might learn from her experience, this little brown hardcover book sat in a warehouse gathering dust, waiting to be sold by the crate.
I was reminded of this book today while reading a review of another book set in the same time period and circumstances.
I believe I read this book when I was in junior high or high school, about 50 years ago, and my memory of it is still strong enough for the 4* rating.
A reread is probably in order at some point but I believe a memory that strong certainly justifies adding it to my list of "read" books with a comment.Thanks to Tara Masih's review of The Flamboya Tree: Memories of a Mother's Wartime Courage for bringing back this memory.
Shirtless, shoeless, stockingless, hatless, each one bandaged, with a septic leg or arm, a cough, a limp, a droop--in the past these men had suffered with excess punctilio; today they scarcely had pants."Concatenation (pg.
The four of us were called to the Japanese offices, and each one was given a pair of men's army shoes, and a food package for herself, as the perquisites of Americans."Palliative (pg.
And the less bread there was, the more we needed the Word."p.221 "I thought of all the young men of all races, who were dying all over the world in battle, who had at some time lain like George at their mothers' side.
The morale in camp was always good.
On the day after they were imprisoned, the Commander of all prisoners and internees in Borneo told her that he had admired her book and "requested" that she write a book for him about her internment.
She did write a book for him but kept notes about the real story which she was able to hide and published the real story after the war.This book is far more interesting than depressing.
She writes "The Japanese in this book are as war made them, not as God did, and the same is true for the rest of us.
It's a book about American and British civilians interned by the Japanese in Borneo, at around the same time, World War II.
Author is very understanding, sympathetic, so much more forgiving than I can imagine anyone to be in that situation, but objective.This book was really remarkable for me especially after reading Bread and Rice.
She's also more rational, whereas the author in Bread and Rice goes a little native and becomes superstitious at times and starts to believe herself precognitive when she has nightmares.That is not to say Keith was never frightened or never felt things deeply — it's clear she has her moments of fright and great emotion, but the way she looks back on those moments, the way they're written in an understated way, really highlights the horrors she experienced.
Her civil-service British husband is kept in an adjacent camp and his situation and those of British and Australian POWs are heartbreakingly detailed as well.
In the last pages of this book she makes a very moving statement which greatly affected me, "I now know the value of freedom.
This is what freedom means to me.
The right to live with, to touch and to love, my husband and my children.
The capacity to work for ourselves and our children.
The freedom of my eyes to scan the face of the earth .
The freedom of my body to walk .
Devoured this book in two days.
It is beautifully written, with so much compassion, love and sadness.
Keith offers a brutal account of her days as a prisoner of war in Japanese-captured Borneo, which she recorded down and carefully hid on bits of scrap paper at much peril.
I did not feel that she was prejudiced against her Japanese captors as much as she was greatly saddened by war itself, and hate.
She presents here the terrible conditions of which she survived in great detail, and I couldn't help but race to the end to find peace and freedom with and for her, at last.
Life in a Japanese prison camp in Borneo. Humanity and inhumanity of war. Author writes fairly about everyone, including the Japanese guards. Astonishing and touching book, and one I'm surprised hasn't been heard of more.
I recognized this book the first time when my family and i visited the Agnes Keith house at Sandakan.
Cause i know this type of book it's hard to find.
This book tell the story of Keith's life in North Borneo in the period immediately before the Japanese invasion in 1942, and her subsequent internment and suffering, separated from her husband Harry, and with a young son to care for.
Keith was initially interned at Berhala Island near Sandakan, North Borneo (today's Sabah) but spent most of her captivity at Batu Lintang camp at Kuching, Sarawak.
An amazing story of this woman's discovery in a Japanese Prison Camp during WWII that hatred was self-destructive and love was more powerful than hate.
"Man liveth not by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God", was never so true as in prison camp.
The word the proceeded out of the mouth of God for me was the warning not to be consumed by hate.
Every night when I lay down beside George (her son) I was filled with love for him.
I could pray then to love and to God, the inseparable."
Agnes Newton Keith's husband, Harry, was Conservator of Forests and Director of Agriculture for the government of North Borneo under a British Chartered Company when the Japanese seized Borneo in January of 1942.
Harry, Agnes and their one-year-old son, George, spent the next three years in Japanese POW camps.
Agnes, already a journalist and published author, kept notes on any scrap of paper she could find hiding them in tins she buried underneath her barracks or in the latrine, or in "plain sight" literally stuffing her son's homemade toys.
Keith's memoir manages to strike an appropriate balance between fact and philosophy.
This book made me realize that I have never had anything to complain about. I appreciated the author's candid voice and honesty. This book revolves around the themes of suffering. Violence, pain, sadness and hunger are woven into Keith's account of being a prisoner of war. I found some typos and had to resist the urge to edit.
She and her husband, Harry were assigned to a post in Borneo at the start of the war.
Agnes could have left Borneo before the Japanese invaded but decided to stay with her husband.
When the Japanese arrived, she and her young son George are placed in a women's prison camp while Harry is put in a separate civilian men's camp.
Agnes and the other women thought the war would end in a few months but instead they were imprisoned for three and a half years.
The struggle to survive was constant but in the end, Agnes did not fault the Japanese but she decided war itself was to blame for their miseries.
I am grateful for the Asiatics in Borneo at that time, few Japanese soldiers, Colonel Suga, and Dr Yamamoto who came to Mrs Keith's aid and her husband, Harry.
Thank God the Japanese didn't completely strip the Europeans of what they possessed like how the Nazis stripped the Jews of what they had, otherwise the captives in Borneo couldn't survive the captivity as they used what they had to smuggle for eggs, milk, aspirin, and cigarettes.
It's a relief to know that the three Keiths: Agnes, Harry, and George their son survived the war.
I really enjoyed this book probably for two reasons - I like war history from the human rather than military perspective and I live in Kuching where part of the book was set.
It seems she had been taken to Canada before the war started to live with Harry's parents.
Anyway, I did enjoy this book and would recommend it to anyone interested in the war history and occupation of Borneo by the Japanese during WW2.
Very different experience, very different book than Land Below the Wind. But equal or better in a different way. An extraordinary experience, written frankly and beautifully. Captive in Borneo in a Japanese POW camp. Agnes Kieth raises her son and stays is a separate but proximate prison to her husband. I am now beginning White Man Returns. Read on plans and in cars over the course of a week.
Grim stuff, but fascinating. We have all heard horror stories about the Japanese prisoner of war camps in WW2, but this is the first time that I have read an account by a survivor. Harrowing account of what went on - and the women were treated considerably better than were the men. Not for the faint-hearted but essential reading for those who want to learn why we try to avoid fighting wars.
This was an excellent account of life in a Japanese POW camp during WWII. While awful, I admire the ingenuity of the women in doing anything they could to survive. The book is a product of its time so there is some language that wouldn't be considered politically correct now, however, if you can see past this, then it is well worth reading.
Written in 1946, it is a true story about a family captured by the Japanese. It was also made into a movie.
All would eventually end up in Kuching Prison Camp, which housed both the civilians that were rounded up when Borneo fell to the Japanese, and Australian and British POWs. Their incarceration began in early 1942 until they were liberated after the Japanese surrender.Agnes was a writer and had published a book about their time in Borneo which had been widely read by many of the Japanese who ran and worked in their camps.
Agnes Newton Keith was taken prisoner in North Borneo, along with her husband and son, in 1942 and remained "interned" until September 1945.
During those three years, she and her little boy were separated from her husband, and starved nearly to death by the "honorable" wardens of their captivity.
I don't know that I would have survived the ordeal that Agnes Newton Keith endured.
That she could look back just a year or two later and find kind things to say about a few of the guards is nothing short of miraculous.

It's also interesting to see the treatment of the prisoners once liberated by the allies...I've read several true stories of those held in captivity in the war, usually at the hands of the Nazi's and this book was interesting to see a similar situation under a different regime and in a very different environment that brings totally different challenges of nature to the table.My Grandfather was posted to Singapore after VJ day to help liberate and re-settle the captives from such places as Agnes decribes.
The second book in the Borneo trilogy, Agnes Newton Keith covers the four years that she, her husband and young son spent as prisoners/internees in the Japanese POW camps on the island of Borneo.
Keith’s son was only two years old when they were rounded up and interned.
With amazing grace and fortitude and without bitterness or anger, Keith shares the story of her life living in inhumane conditions in the camps of Borneo.
While this book is the second in the Borneo trilogy, it is complete and stands on its own.
The inspiration for TV series 'Tenko', 17 March 2015This review is from: Three Came Home (Mass Market Paperback)When the Second World War broke out in the East, the author was a popular author, living a privileged colonial life in Borneo, with her civil servant husband and toddler son.
Refusing opportunities to escape back to the USA, she found herself in a series of Japanese camps with other women and children .
As Agnes, her husband Harry and small son George are taken captive by the Japanese during World War II, the years ahead hold struggle, fear and overwhelming obstacles.
Agnes and little George, with the other women and 23 other children, learn to survive in the women's camp.
Agnes struggled to maintain her sense of composure through all the torments, for the sake of her son.
Her belief in human kindness is tried, and her faith in God. The three of them survive to the end, and she writes of their ordeal in a fascinating, wonderful account of those who triumphed in spite of hate and the horrors of war.



With her husband and then two year old son, Keith was incarcerated in a Japanese POW camp in North Borneo during WWII. The book is a detailed view of the cruelties endured but Evidence not seen: a woman's miraculous faith in a Japanese prison camp during WWII by Darlene Diebler Rose offers faith as the medium for survival. Keith's admonitions as to the evils of war seems to ignore what should be done when one side won't play nice.
