https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76179.Envy
4 starsLoved!
Envy was such a remarkable book. I have not read any other books by Sandra Brown so of course I didn't know what to expect. I read two amazing reviews and decided to give it a go.When I started reading Envy, I could not put it down. It was that kind of book that I read every free moment I had. Finishing each chapter craving the next. I loved EVERYTHING about it. The characters, the location, the mystery.  For me, what made it so great was the depth of the characters and the mystery. It was also
I have not read any other books by Sandra Brown so of course I didn't know what to expect.
Even the side characters, Mike, Nadia and Daniel added more mystery and kept you guessing motives and connections.Sandra Brown doesn't make things easy for the reader which made everything so captivating.
And finally, I am sure you know that I love my sexy reads and all things romance.
If you love Sandra Brown and haven’t read Envy, you MUST read it soon.
If you have never read a book by Sandra Brown then I think Envy would be the perfect book for you!
Living on a remote island under an assumed name, novelist Parker Evans guards his secrets well. Fascinated by this reclusive genius, publisher Maris Matherly-Reed decides to pursue him. But this new project threatens an old commitment, a commitment at the very center of her life. There are plenty of twists and turns and some of them may be a bit predictable but they kept me on my toes.I really don’t want to say too much about the plot. You are better off just diving into the book. “It takes fa
There are plenty of twists and turns and some of them may be a bit predictable but they kept me on my toes.I really don’t want to say too much about the plot.
He was moderately controlled until he heard a small whimper from her.
He backed off, looked down into her eyes, and recognized a desire that equaled his own.Control was abandoned.
He covered her face with wild, random, artless kisses and she was doing the same to him.
The hero is an ass quite a bit of the time.
“The F word turns me on, she whispered.
For the first time in years,his laughter was spontaneous.
It is definitely the type of book that you should go into blind.
Don’t read any descriptions or possible spoilers… just read the book.
This was the first book I’ve read by Sandra Brown, and it will definitely NOT BE THE LAST.
Her writing style, her description, her characters… oh my God… these characters were so incredibly rich and juicy…so dark and complex.
And it is beautiful.[image error]
Among these traits are admirable examples like humility, charity, bravery.’[image error]Parker ‘Unfortunately these have dark counterparts like jealousy, greed, and envy.
[image error]
[image error]
[image error]
You will love this.[image error]
Seriously slacking in the review department. No mojo. I liked this one, though. It had a nice combination of suspense and romance.
Written March 15, 20154.7 Stars - Top quality crime novel with a nice romance touch. Add a superb narrator making it so very excitingAt last was it time for a Sandra Brown book. My friends Karen and Mo's so beloved suspense / crime writer. I crossed my fingers for a great start to a new author with has a high pile of beloved books to choose from.   High Five! ~ For a new book-life with Sandra BrownThis was a great novel, with a thrilling good crime plot and a sweet romance part. I loved it all a
I crossed my fingers for a great start to a new author with has a high pile of beloved books to choose from.
~ For a new book-life with Sandra BrownThis was a great novel, with a thrilling good crime plot and a sweet romance part.
Envy is also the story about the New York book editor (publisher) Maris Matherly-Reed  who feels an interest in a tantalizing partial manuscript submitted by a writer identified only as P.M.E. Maris has a goodlooking former rake and womanizer, the talanted (one success novel) author and co-publisher Noah Reed, as her husband.
Envy is a standalone, thriller/mystery novel written by author Sandra Brown.
I just discovered Ms. Brown in 2014 and obviously haven't read all of her novels yet, but based on what I have read I had already come to my own conclusion that her recent novels are bounds better than anything she has written in the past.Yeah...I was wrong.
But Envy is just as good, and fortunately for me, my premature conclusion has just been dismissed.Envy features an array of mysteriously complicated relationships, it shows the ugliness of envy, deceit, and revenge, and it's a book about writing a book for God's sake!
I've opened myself up to an entire library of Sandra Brown thrillers and I'm super excited!
So glad I did!New York publisher, Maris "Matherly" Reed, receives an intriguing manuscript regarding two college kids and an unsolved murder from someone identified only as P.M.E. She feels compelled to meet the anonymous author, so she travels to a remote Georgia island and begins snooping around.
On a cotton plantation she finds razor sharp Parker Evens, a man who is concealing his true identity and his ties to Maris.
There were several subplots and twists to this story that kept me on the edge of my seat, including an interesting subplot with Maris's sleezy husband, Noah, and her nemesis, Nadia.
This summer I started to read suspense/thriller novels and they became my new obsession.
And then I started to read Sandra Brown.Five reasons why you should read Envy:1.
Story that will keep your attention until the very end.
I couldn't do anything else but read because I had to know what happens next.
The best way to read this book would be just to pic it up an read.
He is heart and soul of this book and one of the most intriguing characters I've read about.
I wish it ended differently, but still it was a good book.Who should read it?
Fans of good suspense stories.
Envy." Sandra Brown is one of those authors that I have been wanting to check out for a long time.
Envy has suspense, a well developed plot, intriguing characters, greed, romance, and of course envy!Maris is a smart and savvy business woman.
I found myself rereading his dialogue as if it were a message from my own father."Marriages go through periods like this.
Parker is the mysterious author of Envy.
As the story is revealed, Maris becomes more comfortable with Parker.
As the plot slowly reveals itself, we see what kind of man Noah truly is.Maris is such a great heroine.
Maris also snagged publishing’s most eligible bachelor, Noah Reed, the author of her favorite book.
Neither is the writer’s contact info, only the initials: P.M.E. Envy, as the prologue is called, recounts a day of celebration that goes horribly wrong and Maris desperately wants to know what happened.
It was sweet watching him/her get some of their own medicine because most of the book I wanted to reach into the pages and smack this person silly!
Envy was another score for Sandra Brown, and as usual with her books I was glued to the pages!
Filled with mystery, intrigue, incredible suspense, unfathomable events and a heavy dose of sensual romance, I loved it.
It's not my keen mind but the knowledge that anything she writes has to be looked at in the most cunning of ways.
Even suspecting things didn't prepare me for my reaction to how everything went down as portrayed in the prologue, it was heartbreakingly sinister.
The love scenes were trademark SB: erotic and sensual without being overly drawn out.
And the way she describes things from the scenery to a characters action is flawless.
⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ 5 stars ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐What a brilliant book! Sandra Brown is a fantastic author!I've read 2 books only by her so far, including this one and both turn up to be 5 stars reads. Even though I did guess very early on what was going on in this one, she kept me on my toes and made me second guess and re-think EVERYTHING. ❤ this author.
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ 5 stars ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️What a brilliant book! Sandra Brown is a fantastic author!I've read 2 books only by her so far, including this one and both turn up to be 5 stars reads. Even though I did guess very early on what was going on in this one, she kept me on my toes and made me second guess and re-think EVERYTHING. ❤️ this author.
5 SPELLBINDING STARS Why I waited so long to read Sandra Brown is beyond me? I’ve read two great reviews on this novel (thankfully they gave nothing away) and a few reviews on some of her other books and all of them were 5 star raves. So, SB had been hovering at the top of my TBR list for a while…Wow, this was an EXHLARATING read! I love going in blind on a book and this one was no exception! Ms. Brown is a brilliant writer. I could hear the cicadas and feel the thick, humid air clinging to my
5 SPELLBINDING STARS Why I waited so long to read Sandra Brown is beyond me?
I’ve read two great reviews on this novel (thankfully they gave nothing away) and a few reviews on some of her other books and all of them were 5 star raves.
I could hear the cicadas and feel the thick, humid air clinging to my skin.“The island had captivated her with its lavish landscape and its musical insects whose concert lulled her to sleep every night.
At first she’d found the humidity cloying and almost unbearable, but she had actually come to like the feel of it against her skin.
Maris, daughter of the CEO of a publishing company and editor.
The other main character is Noah, Maris' husband.
This novel also closely follows the story Parker is writing and its characters.
Soon Maris is questioning how much of this story is based on real life.
Little does Maris know that Parker has his own agenda to fulfill.This novel was nicely written, the characters were easy to love (or hate as the case may be).
Some nice surprises ant twists throughout the book, following well into to suspense line.
The romantic aspects were well blended into the story.
Maris fell in love with Noah because she loved his book so much - I know that reason can go out the window when emotions walk in the door, but really?!!2.
Maris again - she came to Parker's bed while still claiming to love her husband, and then was upset with him for 'using' her and pushing her out the door (which he did).Envy is a good read; a well-told story with some predictable plotlines but also some surprising twists.
However, I loved Mike - he was the real hero of this book!And I really liked the story-within-a-story format.
Suspense? Nonexistent.Mystery? The key part in Envy is mystery. But the mystery is mostly not mysterious to me:/Plot? The information that is required to power up the plot lack substances.Characters? The bad guy is delusional and at times, laughable, and Maris frustrates the heck out of me. All main characters are 2-dimensional.Romance? Weird. I have to say that Maris fell in love with the book character, not the hero:/ Dialogue? Good for the most part.Pace? Slow in some chapters.That said, her books will still be in my top tbr.
Brown alternates the present day story of Parker, Maris, Noah and the rest with chapters from Parker’s manuscript,” Envy.” I can’t emphasize enough how masterfully she builds the suspense story throughout this book.
Both story arcs are full of enough detail to stand on their own, but when brought together, the result feels like much more than a sum of the parts.While there are many important and well-developed characters in Envy, the relationship between Parker and Maris stands at the center of the book.
Frighteningly evil bad guy, and interesting romantic development.I read this nine years ago and gave it 4 stars.
Nine years ago I guess I wanted more emotional draw.
She ends up staying longer than she planned.The second story is “Envy” (the novel Parker is writing).
The sex scenes were a little weak on passion/emotion, but should appeal to romance lovers.
Mystery/thriller lovers might not want the sex scenes.I noticed other reviewers saying there is not much mystery because one can guess a key plot point early on.
I won't go into detail about the plot or characters because for the first couple of chapters the reader doesn't know who's the villain and who's the hero (you can find out if you hunt around for a description but I liked not knowing for sure.) As usual with Sandra Brown, there are several POVs, intertwined with the chapters of "Envy" a book the heroine is editing (sort of a book within a book.) The author skillfully ties the narrative in this book so it gives you hints of the overall arc without revealing everything upfront.
He has that tough guy voice that's just perfect for Sandra Brown's heroes.Overall, an excellent book which I recommend to all lovers of romantic suspense.
☆4/5☆▪Plot 5/5▪Details 4/5▪Characters 5/5▪Romance 3/5▪Logic 3.5/5▪Writing style 4.5/5▪Enjoyment 4/5UPDATEI couldn't decide if I should keep it or not. So, I deleted (yes, deleted) all the sex scenes from book. !With black pencil and white marker on top! Clap clap. --------------------------------------------I couldn't stand all disgusting, nasty, filthy sex scenes. It was unnecessary.. It could have been 5 starts.Overall, I really like 'book in a book' idea and all the twist were awesome too. But the end of the book was kinda rushed, tho.
Nevertheless someone commented that Sandra Brown was a good author so even though I have no idea if I'll like the book or not I'm still excited to read it.The book actually arrived very late and it just arrived this month of July when supposedly it should arrived earlier like in the months of January or February.My mom was the one who received the package and she was very delightful when she learned that I just got that free from a giveaway contest.
I was just so giddy and couldn’t concentrate lol does anybody else do this?However, once again I enjoyed this book and it is still one my favourite from SB.To me, the prologue is one of the best I have read.
If your answers are ‘yes’ then this book is for you.I really enjoyed this book, and although there are some times when it’s tiny bit predictable, and some characters are one dimensional, this book had that atmosphere that only some authors can create.
I couldn’t put it down, and I think my feelings changed every second.I wanted to punch some characters, including the heroine sometimesI admit, some chapters were a bit predictable
What she doesn't realize is that she's been lured into an elaborate scheme of revenge long buried in the past.There are excerpts of the fictional Envy included as interludes between some of the more emotionally charged chapters.
They are there both as background information and as a character building device to better understand Parker, the author Maris has gone to see.
Noah Reed, Maris's husband and her relationship to him is the glue that holds Envy together.What I liked best about the novel was Parker.
This book is pretty fun but also hasn’t aged super well, like Chumbawamba’s “Tubthumping” and a lot of other things from the ‘90s.
But there’s some unfortunate racism, misogyny, homophobia, and fat-shaming that struck my ear really wrong, and I would be remiss not to mention it.
I would like to think that most of it wouldn’t make it past an editor in 2017.
It’s a shame, because it mars what otherwise is a fun, fluffy, sexy thriller with a teeth-grindingly terrible villain who deserves every bit of what’s coming to him.More book recommendations by me at www.readingwithhippos.com
Reread in May, 2010. Still think it's one of Sandra Brown's best books ever. A deep and dark storyline with great character development and a plot that keeps on going. I'm so glad I decided to pick this book up again 10 years from the original read because my reading habits have changed so much and I've developed more of an eye for details and clues. Such a surprise and a delightful day of reading.
O carte superba a autoarei, mi-a placut mult! Dragoste, crima...imbinate intr -o poveste excepționala!
Rating Clarification: 3.5 stars Considering the great reviews this book I had higher expectations. It was simply okay and I didn't really connect all that much with the main characters.
I should probably tell my father, and the head of the company, what is going on but I won't because that would not only be logical, it would take a good 100 pages or so out of the book." What makes this even better is that everyone throughout the book refers to Maris as being very smart, which would normally make me grit my teeth except that I started reading it as though they were all patronizing her, which made me laugh.Ok, the characterization and plot need work, but it's not all bad.
Just started the audiobook on a trip and was so mesmerized, I didn't want the trip to end. UPDATE: WOW!!!! I have to say, I loved this book! Just wow. Way to go Ms. Brown!~D~
