https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11503.In_the_Beginning
Potok’s coming-of-age books are always so cerebral and inspiring. The protagonists are always truly analytical types: totally focused, with searing intellectualism. The characters have such dedication and depth. This story spans two continents and many centuries, and the small, localized hatreds suffered by a young Jewish boy in 1930s NYC are no less real than the grand scale hatreds suffered by his people through the ages.
A superbly written story of a exceptionally intelligent young Jewish boy, David, his family, and their struggle to establish their lives in the United States, and to aid other Jewish families who wish to leave Poland and settle in New York.
It seems like this is primarily the story of the Jewish experience in NYC in the 1920's -1940's.
I was left wishing I knew the rest of the story!
Wonderful writing, at times a stream of semi-consciousness or dreaming.
I love Chaim Potok and this isn't my favorite novel by him but it takes us into the life of a young boy growing up in New York.
His mother had been married to a man named David but he died.
She married David's brother and had two boys, David and Alex.
David loves the Torah and his Jewish culture.
His father is a leader of the Jewish community who fled with his wife from Poland and pogroms.
They bring many people to America through their Jewish community and watch over each other.
They rebuild their lives, speaking to the resiliancy of the Jewish people as a whole.
"All beginnings are hard..." Potok had a gift for communicating the significance of familial and cultural relationships. Seemingly normal interactions have life-long consequences for his characters. You feel the pain of a mocking look or a bigoted sneer. You bond with the warmth of the common American sidewalk. A mother's song, a father's beard. Potok never puts you through too much emotional strain without giving you enough hope and courage to get to the next chapter.
In The Beginning is quite different in style than Potok’s earlier novels.
Potok stirs in me a desire to know more about this Orthodox world, a (ever so slight) regret that I didn’t grow up and live in this world filled with Torah and Talmud.
He wants to keep and maintain this world he knows and loves, but there is too much in him—a desire for more than what the insular Orthodox world can offer—for him to stay.
He does not want to reject the past, but he also knows that life requires moving forward…to a new beginning.
I thought it was brilliant but I really don't know that I like a style of writing that has 100 pages of a little kid riding a tricycle between illnesses and lamenting the evils of antisemitism in his own childish way.
It portrayed brilliantly many Jewish issues and was cleverly crafted to weave them into the everyday details of the "normal" life of a completely abnormal family.
The heartrending foreknowledge that their family in Poland was going to be destroyed was also poignantly portrayed as they came out of the depression and were remaking a life for themselves in New York while Europe was being ravaged.
uno dei migliori romanzi di Potok, considerato come romanzo di formazione lo trovo ottimo. E questa è la sua formazione ...
Anyone who knows very clearly what he’s doing with his life will have people who dislike him.”And as he gets older, the question becomes, how do you respond to violence?“With a goy who wants to kill you a Jew should not be a gentleman.
There will not be many gentle Jews left after this war.”And of course as the book goes on, the question of evil focuses on Germany and Hitler.“Are the Germans killing Jews?”“Yes.”I shivered in the wind.
David, aided by the greatest Talmudic scholar alive, is forced to choose between the heritage he loves and his passion for learning and understanding.[return][return]Chaim Potok, in his finest books, always writes about the conflict between the secular world and that of Orthodox Jewry.
Potok narates his main story line and conversations with short, simple declarative sentences that have a sort of sing-song (the best way I can describe it) rhythm; I have no doubt that it imitates spoken Yiddish.[return][return]But David is someone who loves nature, finds comfort in the zoo and the parks.
It was ok, but not great.The Chosen was a much better book.I felt bogged down a lot of the time by lengthy descriptions of everything the Am Kedoshim society said and did, and I didn't understand much of it, as I'm not Jewish.
I suppose David's knowledge and areas of interest grow and change a lot, but personality-wise, he always seems like the same exceptionally intelligent yet shy kid.
The descriptions of David's illness were very vivid, as were some of the visual imagery.Bottom line: I liked it but it was by no means a page-turner, as I feel the Chosen was at times.
Stunning, as Potok always is, though more slowly paced and deliberate than others that I've read.
I want to know if the religious world view has any meaning today.
Take apart the Bible and see if it is something more today than the Iliad and the Odyssey.
Bring yourself back that answer, Lurie.
Bring yourself back that answer, Lurie.
Do not bring yourself back shallowness...Everyone will be wondering what sacred truths of their childhood you are destroying.
Merely to destroy--that is a form of shallowness."
I felt that I missed something in this book, and the story did not propel me forward in the way his other books I've read did.
Towards the end, the plot becomes very involved in Jewish scholarship of the Torah and Talmud, to the point that as a non-Jewish reader I felt that I was surely missing a little of what was going on.
While not really the subject of the story at any point, it takes place against a backdrop of the Great Depression and World War II.
I didn't enjoy this book as much as I enjoyed 'Asher Lev'. Another novel about a sickly young boy growing up in New York,in an orthodox Jewish community. Overall, haunted by history, haunted by the past.
This was wonderful - I am starting to think that everything Chaim Potok writes is magically beautiful.
This is my second reading of this book. I read it a few years ago. I am currently reading it for a book club.
In the Beginning by Chaim Potok This historical novel takes place in 1930’s Bronx, New York. It is a story of a young Jewish boy, David Lurie, and his parents along with a whole Jewish society. David Lurie is the narrator throughout the entirety of this historical novel. I found this book by chance in my school’s library to get credit for an assignment. The novel starts with David Lurie who has “hard beginnings” in life because of a variety of religious persecutions in his local neighborhood and
The novel starts with David Lurie who has “hard beginnings” in life because of a variety of religious persecutions in his local neighborhood and diseased sicknesses.
I have given this book a five star rating because I have always liked Chaim Potok’s writing style and the content it emits.
In my opinion I would say that this book gave me valuable insights into how it was to be a Jew in the 1930’s because so much has happened throughout history and just to have an insight of what life was like to a Jewish boy during this era is illustrious.
But the whole book is filled with a sense of menace, as the child encounters snatches of adult conversation; a photo of his father and friends in a Polish forest with guns; mother fearing for her family back in Poland and the anguish as their efforts to persuade them to leave are rebuffed; the narrator's uncle and namesake who was killed in a pogrom...and closer to home, casual racist bullying, the Depression which impacts on the community's ability to help their compatriots.
I really liked /The Promise/.
It's been ages since I read /Asher Lev/ but I'm pretty sure I liked that one too.
In /theory/ this book should have a lot going for it--David's parents and their predicament was technically quite fascinating, the moments of depression in various characters were realistically drawn, and the whole idea of him (view spoiler)[moving towards a more secular understanding of his faith (hide spoiler)] could be very intriguing.
In seemed a bit reminiscent of some characters in /The Promise/.
It's well-written, with interesting characters, external and internal conflicts, ideas, and religious questions.
There was a lot of father hunger in this book.
Max hides a great deal and does not open up to his sons, but is shocked when they are adults and don’t open up to him and hide things from him.
You cant be too careful about what your kids read...Max failed as a present-yet-absentee father.
This book seemed to me like a bad draft of My Name is Asher Lev. Compared to other Potok books it’s 3/5 stars.
Compared to a lot of junk out there, I would give it 4.5/5, but that’s a tale for another time.
I must have read this book years ago, when I read a great deal of Potok.
But I had forgotten anything of it, especially that the main character, David Lurie, comes of age at the end of WWII.
Now that I teach about the Holocaust to 5th and 7th graders, this book has more meaning for me.
It is amazing to me that we try to make this kind of teaching "age appropriate", when nothing could be held back at the end of the war from all those in America whose families died in the camps.
His characters live so intensely; they learn and master so much.
Fascinating look at the Depression and beginnings of WWII as a young Jewish boy.
I learned a lot about the Torah and its interpretations by other Jewish scholars.
Interestingly, some of the Jewish people in this have a similar xenphobia that anti-Semites themselves had, which is a profound statement on humans in general: we all have fears and anger, but we must look past these to embrace the fact that we are all still people who deserve life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
The protagonist is a brave soul; David is much more than a character, he is a beautiful and sad lesson in humanity.
3.75 stars. A very powerful ending to a good novel. Having recently read Potok's "The Promise" the themes in here are very similar: how to honor the past of Judaism while looking at it's future. Potok excels at putting you through the experiences of his protagonists--and real history--in a way that leaves one feeling bruised.
Beautifully written. I hardly noticed that anything was happening but suddenly everything was different and I felt like I knew the characters intimately. A different angle on being Jewish during WWII, and interesting to watch David grow into his own person.
I couldn't get through it. I like Chaim Potok, but this book was simply too dry and slow. There did not seem to be much of a plot. I'm marking it as read and that I finished it today, but today is just the day I've decided I'm done trying to force my way through it.
Excellent book with excellent character development. Loved the cultural clashes also.
This was pretty slow reading. Not sure it was up to the level of his other books.
Another masterpiece. I love his writing. Some of the best I have read each year
A slow read, but worth almost every word.I imagine this must be the closest any of Potok's fiction comes to memoir.
Chaim Potok never disappoints... Just like The Chosen, this book is an intricate detailed account of the daily life and emotions of a young Jewish boy. I enjoyed this thoroughly!
