https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2525855.Lee_s_Lieutenants_Volume_2
See my comments on Volume I....Douglas Freeman is an American literary treasure in the biography genre.
This is a great book, although I suspect its revolutionary writing style has lost a certain something.Freeman wrote using the "Fog of War" technique -- he presents you with all the data the commanding general knew at the time, and reviewed the possible actions that made sense given the training they'd received and lessons experienced.This has become copied all too frequently...because it's a great technique for military history.
Coddington's The Gettysburg Campaign: A Study in Command uses the same style, with great success...but Freeman uses footnotes (for far easier reference) whereas Coddington clumsily writes two books in one: the endnotes worth studying, and the text itself.Substance.
Not actually reading this particular edition. I have a copy of the 1946 edition, in the original slipcase from my father's library. It is fascinating, although the language is a little formal, its a good read. What's sort of interesting is that when this book was written in 1936 the Civil War had ended only 71 years prior. About the same amount of time has passed since the book was written. Still very contemporary, but it does say something about the perspective my Dad had on the Civil War, somewhat similar I guess to my take on WW2.
Douglas Freeman's book, "Lee's Lieutenants Volume 2" covers the campaigns of the Army of Northern Virginia from Spring 1862 to the death of Stonewall Jackson in May1863. My edition was published in 1943 and the writing as well as research is exceptional. I was mesmerized by the descriptions of Sharpsburg and Chancellorsville battles. This book is a classic and a "must read" for military history fans.
Two-thirds of the way through my winter reading project, "Lee's Lieutenants" by Douglas Southall Freeman. Terrific details and language. Even after more than 40 years of studying the Civil War, there was much to learn of the relationships and disagreements between Confederate leaders. Hope to finish Volume III by the start of the new year.
This volume is far more interesting to me probably due to the war having developed and munitions and war materiel amassed. The slaughter just goes on though as it turns into a nightmare that no one can ever wake up from
See Lee's Lieutenants, Vol. I
