https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64217.Pyramids
Fortunately for Death, however, what he doesn't know won't kill him.It was also rather funny seeing a "handmaid" who'd never "serviced" a king and an "assassin" who'd never killed anyone fumble around their conversations with one another.But really, I think I had the most fun with the camels.
Quantum accounting aside, I thought this was a very interesting and funny novel, giving us a nice background for the Assassin's guild while not precisely overburdening us (at all) with characters we'll grow to love later.
That being said, I had a good time and probably a bit more than the other one-off Discworld novels that came before it.
Of course, such an endeavor is not exactly cheap; unsurprisingly enough, the entire kingdom is neck deep in debt.It is now up to 12-year-old crown prince Pteppic to save the country.
provided of course, he can survive the grueling training.Pyramids had a lot of potential as a concept, and to his credit, sir Terry Pratchett really tried to cover as much of Egyptian history and customs as possible...
and therein lies the problem.The first part (my favorite) mainly covers Pteppic's assassin training.
So an excellent treat for anyone wishing for Discworld world-building.The second part focuses on Pteppic's life back in Djelibeybi, as he tries to adapt (again) to life at home, sans the modern comforts of Ankh Morpork...
Terry Pratchett takes the mick out of ancient Egyptians, hilarity followsOverviewPyramids gets a solid 4 star rating.
It also includes the nice little footnotes that Pratchett uses in most of his works.
All in all, a very easy book to read.
And that's the holy grail when writing characters isn't it, make me feel for them.
WritingThis is where Pratchett thrives, in his writing.
You need to be a human being to be really stupid.‘In layman’s terms,’ the doctor sniffed, ‘he’s as dead as a doornail.’ ‘What are the complications?’ The doctor looked shifty.
As I said though, fairly minor.
The Kingdom of Djelibeybi (potentially a silly joke but one that seems to work and make me smile every time, especially in audio book!) with its ancient customs and giant pyramids is a minefield of clever puns, and religious satire and the overall plot is one that is both completely obvious from the outset and yet the path to enlightenment is littered with detours through crocodile infested rivers and camel laden deserts so that you can easily forget that you know how things will end.Considering the humble beginnings of this series Pratchett has very quickly spread his wings and in doing so the scope of the Disc has opened up enormously in just a few short novels.
Pyramids is Sir Terry Pratchett’s 7th Discworld book and the Pratchett Smile-O-Meter is dancing happily as this is another fun ride with cool Uncle Terry.This is a blisteringly funny satire on religion, faith and loyalty taking place in the blisteringly hot desert of Discworld in the Old Kingdom of Djelibeybi (which is of course analogous to Egypt in our world).First published in 1989 and by this time Pratchett’s fame and fortune with the Discworld was established and he mixed things up a bit.
He is the son of the ruler of the desert-country of Djelibeybi (the Discworld equivalent of Egypt) but because his mother insisted on a foreign education before her death, he spent most of his years at Ankh-Morpork's Assassin's Guild.The second part, The Book of the Dead, takes the reader and Pteppic back to Pteppic's home country after his father's death, where he become's the new king (pharaoh).
We learn about Djelibeybi's culture and beliefs.The third and final part, The Book of the New Son, details Pteppic's and Ptraci's quest to undo the problems from the gigantic pyramid and putting everything back in order.
And the gods go crazy24 November 2012 I am really glad that I decided to reread a the Discworld novels to give them a better commentary as I have found that I have been quite enjoying them, and in many ways they have been getting better and better. However, this is the second to last one that I read (and it seems that I may have originally read them in order of publication, since the last one I read was Guards, Guards, and that is sitting next to me waiting to be reread very soon). Pratchett see
The thing about Djelibeybi is that it is a kingdom where tradition rules, to the point that it is impossible for the king to actually break with tradition.
In fact it is very clear that the subjects never actually listen to the king, but rather to him, so that when the king tries to change tradition, Dios will always interpret the words as sticking with tradition ('I shall set him free,' says the king, as which Dios interprets as being 'throw him to the crocodiles').
The problem arose when the previous king decided that he wanted his son to have a good education, and normally that would simply mean being taught by the priest, specifically Dios.
"People needed to believe in gods, if only because it was so hard to believe in people." Here's one for the history buffs. Anyone who's familiar with the Trojan War or has an interest in Ancient Egypt and Greece would probably get a kick out of this. So many good references. In case that doesn't interest you, there are also some assassins and some camels who are very good at math.I didn't enjoy this one as much as I had expected to. I think it just felt too long (for a Pratchett novel) and the
"People needed to believe in gods, if only because it was so hard to believe in people."
Here's one for the history buffs.
So many good references.
In case that doesn't interest you, there are also some assassins and some camels who are very good at math.I didn't enjoy this one as much as I had expected to.
I think it just felt too long (for a Pratchett novel) and there were too many tangents.
Still, three stars on a Discworld novel is equivalent to what I would rate four stars on something else.
This is at least my third read of this (and probably more; I can remember when there were only ten or so Discworld books and I would read a selection of them every year).Pteppic (Teppic) is the crown prince of the Old Kingdom of Djelibeybi and has been studying abroad in Ankh-Morpork with the Assassin's Guild when his father King Teppicymon XXVII dies.
It has a similar structure to later books in the series, but with a completely new set of characters that we don't get to revisit.
Executive Summary: Another good, but not great entry in the Discworld series. This one seems to read pretty much stand alone, though I think it would be best to have some knowledge of the series prior to this book. Full Review It's been a few months since my marathon of several of the previous books, and I was in the mood for Mr. Pratchett's humor. I'd been in a bit of a reading slump after my previous book, and hoped this would be a light quick read to break me of that.Unfortunately that wasn't
I'd been in a bit of a reading slump after my previous book, and hoped this would be a light quick read to break me of that.Unfortunately that wasn't the case.
A lot of the pyramid related humor was pretty good, but not enough to always hold my interest.
I went many days between reading, and was never really in a rush to get back to it.In a series this long and varied, there are likely to be some books I'll enjoy more than others, and this one just falls into that latter category for me.I'll probably take another month or two long break before finally tackling Guards!
They had, as it were, the complete Set.And the people of the Old Kingdom were learning that, for example, Vut the Dog-Headed God of the Evening looks a lot better painted on a pot than he does when all seventy feet of him, growling and stinking, is lurching down the street outside.Now, the weakness of Pratchett's approach is that it concedes that religions do have the key efficacy they claim for themselves.
Thus, it leaves open the possibility that a religion exists that does not involve a Vut the Dog-Headed God of the Evening.
Pyramids is, so far, my favourite Terry Pratchett book.The humour is sublime, and that's why I read him.This takes place on the Discworld, but isn't part of any other series.
This is one of the true Discworld standalones (I know everyone says that you can read any Discworld book in any order, but that's madness!).What actually happens in this book?
I can't point to a single part of this book and tell you why it's my favourite in the series, because I've forgotten all of the funny parts that made me laugh, because jokes are fleeting and of the moment.
(Relectura Mundodisco #7)Tras iniciar varias sagas y presentarnos varios de sus personajes clave en las anteriores entregas, Pratchett nos dejó esta novela independiente ambientada en Djelibeibi (el Egipto del Mundodisco).Al contrario que otras de sus novelas donde predomina la diversión y el caos, aquí Pratchett se pone más filosófico y reflexiona sobre las tradiciones y la importancia de la religión en la sociedad.
Si a este cocktail le añadimos montones de juegos con referencias históricas sobre antiguas civilizaciones (aconsejable recurrir al Anotated Pratchett File para no perderse ninguna: http://www.lspace.org/books/apf/), estamos ante otra gran muestra del talento del maestro.
Hay quien pone esta novela entre las más flojas de Pratchett.
In Pyramids, the seventh book in the Discworld universe and the first in the gods/ancient civilisations subseries, Pratchett tackles ancient Egypt and the pseudoscientific “pyramid power” theory.
It tells the story of a young prince-turned-assassin and the strange the country of Djelibeybi (ha!), where pyramids dominate the landscape and the king is believed to be a god.
You see, even though Pyramids is not a perfect novel, but it was the one I desperately needed to read and the reason I will be eternally grateful to Terry Pratchett.(Warning: highly personal story ahead.)
Read More
Pratchett vs. Egypt? Guess who wins?What happens when an assassin inherits a kingdom that is stuck in the past? Read this to find out.In fact, I think Pratchett might have been on to something.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
Read this today while my youngest daughter is recovering from surgery. Another Pratchett that I have read before, but an edition I never owned. Bless you Pterry.
So, unless you are staunchly reading in publication order (*raises hand*) or a first-timer seeking a random launching pad since all books can be read on their own, or have excess funds and time so you will try a lesser known book, then chances are you will bypass Pyramids.
Here is a riddle I imagine the Sphinx may ask right before it tears you apart - how many mathematicians, accountants, architects, embalmers, priests, philosophers, assassins, kings, handmaidens, camels, tortoises, live mummies and dead daddies does it take to save Djelibeybi from the biggest pyramid it has ever built?
«La gente necesitaba creer en dioses aunque sólo fuese por lo difícil que resultaba creer en las personas.»Sinceramente no tenía las expectativas muy altas cuando lo empecé, ya que me dijeron que era más flojo que Dioses menores, su predecesor.
Por lo que cuando comencé a leerlo me llevé una grata sorpresa con ese ritmo trepidante y la narración combinando el pasado con el presente.
Es una historia que atrapa, que abarca uno de los temas favoritos favoritos de Pratchett las religiones y el poder de sus creyentes, con su inconfundible sentido del humor y sus mil y una referencias.Este libro describe bastante bien lo que es irse a estudiar fuera de casa, volver al hogar y darte cuenta de que el tiempo por algunos lugares sencillamente no pasa.

Με λίγα λόγια: Παρότι κάπου χάνει, με τους χαρακτήρες του να μην είναι ιδιαίτερα memorable και μερικά από τα αστεία του να μένουν από καύσιμο στην πορεία του βιβλίου, αυτό είναι ένα ακόμη απολαυστικό κομμάτι του Discworld και μάλιστα standalone.
RETO DE LECTURA 2017. DICIEMBRE: UN LIBRO QUE SE DESARROLLE EN UN LUGAR AL QUE TE GUSTARÍA IR (REAL O FICTICIO). Bueno, pues aquí otro precioso libro del maestro Pratchett. Se trata de otra novela de Mundodisco, pero se puede leer independientemente, ya que no pertenece a ninguna subsaga.Esta vez seguimos a Teppic, un joven aprendiz de asesino y descendiente de faraones al que la vida le cambia por completo cuando surge un terrible imprevisto en Djelibeibi, el reino del que proviene. El libro s
El padre de Teppic es un señor tan adorable como su hijo, Ptraci es una jovenzuela de armas tomar, Dios (y no me refiero a la divinidad que tod@s conocemos) es el ambicioso y mandón de turno al que no le gusta nada que lleven la contraria, Dil y Gern y sus diálogos desternillantes, Ptaclusp y sus hijos, cada uno a su tema… Me han encantado, de verdad.Tengo que decir que la ambientación me ha parecido muy lograda, algo que no me ha ocurrido con el resto de novelas del Mundodisco que he leído hasta ahora.
(hide spoiler)]No le pongo cinco estrellas porque no lo he disfrutado tanto como La luz Fantástica o Tiempos Interesantes, pero igualmente ha sido un libro muy bueno que, además, releeré en un futuro no muy lejano para comprender las pequeñas cosas que se me han pasado por alto en esta primera lectura.
The chart shows it as the start of the Ancient Civilizations subseries, but it only has a dotted line (minor connection) to other books.I enjoyed this, but not as much as some of the previous Discworld books.
Pyramids are apparently very tricky things…Before the book begins, Teppic decides to go off to assassin’s school.
The book starts with Teppic taking his final exam, with brief flashbacks about how he got there.
The early part, where Teppic was still at the school, was the part I enjoyed the most.
I wanted to read more about the camels.The next Discworld book on my list is Guards!
Just finished re-reading this one, and wanted to say how wonderful it is!
The characters are beautifully drawn, and Pratchett's humanism is once again apparent.
As always it's the little touches that make it, like the Tsortean wooden horse on rockers, the religion in Viper House and all Teppic's mattresses and plumbers (so small I only found it on my fifth reading).
Filled with Ephebians, Tsortians, stunned seagulls, Commerce, knives, handmaidens and High Priests, not to mention the mummies, a sphinx, embalmers and paracosmic architects; this is one of the very best of the early Discworld books.
Oooo, i needed that!!!! Just as exquisite and funny and inelegant as i needed it to be!!!! i LOVE this author!!!
I enjoyed this one, even though it felt a bit like a trilogy of short stories pulled together in one volume, honestly the Assassin Guild beginning was quite good on its own, but I also liked the returning home and home not being the same part, and then finally the magical pyramid part. I left feeling like some of that ending was left undefined, I’m hoping we see a few of these characters again somewhere along the way.
My daughter is only three months old and she's already read her first Discworld novel...or at least listened to it.
We decided last month that we wanted to create a family tradition of reading out loud before bedtime and, not wanting to have this hanging out there as something we wanted to do but might never start, we decided to start early.
This way she won't ever remember a time when there wasn't bedtime reading.
Along the way we meet the many contradictory gods of Djelibeybi, all of Teppic's ancestors, and the greatest mathematician on the disc, You Bastard, a camel.Pratchett has a flair for puns both immediate and extended.
I can't wait to read the next Discworld novel.
Es cierto que, de momento, no es una saga que despunte, pero después de siete libros, no puedo hacer otra cosa que pensar en el Mundodisco con una expresión soñadora y sintiéndome orgullosa de leer al maestro.
Entering the reread of this one, I didn't really remember a single thing about the story.
The only thing I knew was that this was never one of my favorites.I think I enjoyed it more on the reread than I did on my first go around, though it probably still won't be one of my faves.
It won't be in the bottom tier, either.This is pretty much a standalone in the series.
The only good thing about commercial air travel is that it provides ample opportunity to read.
And if anything can make a delayed flight tolerable, it's Pratchett in fine form.This is top-shelf Discworld.
I don't know how I managed not to ever have read this particular one before.
It's got plenty of witty asides and groaner puns, but being an early book in the series, spares the reader the tedium of the usual Ankh-Morpork stock characters.
A very nice stand-alone, should you be looking to visit Discworld for the first time (or seduce a friend to the series).
