https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5852.The_Mimic_Men
Soon thereafter Singh gets creative with a legacy of wasteland and becomes a wealthy developer.
Suddenly, the book feels more like a Naipaul novel.
His father, an underpaid school teacher, marries into a family a few years before they grow wealthy as the island’s sole Coca-Cola bottler.
On a school outing, for example, the beautifully Chinese Hok is discovered to be the son of a black mother.
As Singh tells us:We had converted our island into one big secret.
The laughter denied our knowledge of these things to which after the hours of school we were to return.Hok ignores his black mother in the street.
The story fluctuates back and forth between the two cultures as Ralph Singh tries to come to terms with his identity inside a Caribbean culture while trying to apply English attributes to his person and life.
When he describes his life on the island, his family and relatives, I see glances of a vividness in his culture among Indians, whites and those of African descent, not to mention all the ones who share each race, which is quite common in the Caribbean.
The only thing I found interesting were the different characters Singh describes as they come into his life.

For newcomers to Naipaul I suggest you start somewhere else.
Guerrillas or A Bend in the River would probably be the best starting point.
As with much of Naipaul's work The Mimic Men is concerned largely with the theme of identity; the grander theme of post-colonial national identity, as well as the smaller, though no less important, theme of personal identity.
Ralph (like Naipaul himself) is a man without a homeland.
Though I thought this theme was better portrayed in Guerrillas and A Bend in the River, The mimic Men is still a brilliant novel written in Naipaul's trademark brutal and precise prose.
I think perhaps the style of the prose is a large factor towards my disliking this novel - it just wasn't for me.However, I think the main reason I didn't like it was the protagonist, Ralph Singh. I just couldn't connect to the man, no matter how hard I tried.Mostly, it felt like this was a novel that was floating by me, but that I could not grasp on to.
This book makes you feel small, insignificant, and makes you question the meaning of the almost absurd lives that we all lead in a world transformed by colonialism. As an Asian American, I experienced a mixture of emotions and reactions that are hard to describe. Oh, and reading this book makes you feel so, so alone in this world for some reason...
And the books I am referring to are:In Search of Lost Time – which could be looked at as a whole long novel, or the best story ever told in 6 novelsSomerset Maugham has fascinated me with Of Human Bondage (rated among the best novels of the 20th century) The Painted Veil, Short Stories (practically all of them), Cakes and Ale and The Moon and Six PenceHerman Hesse is a Nobel Prize Winner and the well known author of Siddhartha, Narcissus and Goldmund (which overwhelmed me and I am in the process of reading again) and The wonderful The Glass Bead GameThomas Mann again a Nobel Prize Winner and marvelous writer- I loved first of all The Magic Mountain (included among the best books ever written, together with some other of Thomas Mann’s works), Death in Venice, The Buddenbrooks and Joseph and His Brothers.
When I first got this book, I turned to a random page and read a paragraph.
To my delight, I chanced on some sentimental, musing passage about the misery of being alone, that was melancholic yet moving, and my expectations for the book rose.
Unfortunately, the sample I encountered proved to be very representative, and I quickly tired of the narrator's pathetic and mopey writing style.
The novel does explore some deeper worthwhile topics about immigration and patriation, and offers pretty regular comments about breasts (the narrator is obsessed with describing every breast he encounters, particularly his girfriend's, whose nipples are painted with lipstick), but besides that it's drudgery to read.
This book is utterly lacking in plot, interesting characters, or anything useful to say about the human condition.
What makes it all the more frustrating is that this should be interesting; it's about a businessman turned socialist politician in a newly free Island nation.
But instead of getting gripping highlights from his rise and fall from power, Naipaul chooses instead to make his narrator detached and cynical, for "literary effect" or something (it is as if he is actively sabotaging his own book).
Over half the book is uninteresting biographical details and random musings, with all the action taking place in passing.
I think this is one of the first books I've ever read (at least that I'm consciously aware of) that won a Pulitzer Prize.
He never seems to get angry for instance, even at things he should be angry about, and when people around him express other strong emotions like anger or jealousy, he is terribly uncomfortable with it.The narrator is fascinated with the quality of light in both places, but most particularly in London, something shared with some other postcolonial writers, and his depictions of landscapes frequently employ light as a descriptor of the mood that each place evokes.
good work but sounds very stereotype, a young second generation immigrant Indian in the Caribbeans being toyed by the world powers..
Life Escapes Me.....I Escape LifePerhaps colonial rule in much of the world did produce mimic men.
In this tale of a colonial boyhood in an island country very like the author's native Trinidad, the strongest note is always distress and failure.
Returning to his island, Ralph Singh becomes a real estate magnate, goes into politics, wins a national election, becomes a political force, and then is pushed out, exiled at last to England.
It is a psychological tour de force, both in terms of the main character and of the author.
But I've given it five stars because despite his gloom, Naipaul is a top writer.
"...desi era trecut de unu noaptea, noi inca ne plimbam, dupa nenumarate ceaiuri fierbinti.
Asta desi emotia, una pe care nu o mai incercasem pana atunci, ar fi fost suficienta sa-mi dea energie.Pe acele strazi pustii...pe acele strazi parasite mi s-a facut o declaratie care m-a miscat, desi am incercat sa-i rezist.
Beatrice hotarase ca ii eram cel mai bun prieten.Mi-a explicat semnificatia cuvantului, si mi-era teama ca astepta o invitatie in camaruta mea in forma de carte.Dar nu; ne-am plimbat inainte si inapoi in jurul locuintei ei...iar cand in cele din urma, ne-am oprit in fata casei ei si a venit momentul sa ne despartim, am constatat ca nu astepta nimic de la mine...."
Na verdade 3,5 estrelas. Um relato maravilhosamente bem escrito, um pouco angustiante, não sei se pelo humor britânico ou cinismo do autor, a escrever sobre temas tão próximos a nós, habitantes de republiquetas latino-americanas , prisioneiros de um destino que nos faz sentirmos como eternos e exóticos expatriados quando tentamos fugir de nós mesmos.
Master of language. But plot? Meh. I gather this was somewhat autobiographical but I just could not sympathize with the protagonist and did not care what happened to him. The story moved too slowly and went...nowhere interesting. What I did appreciate was the dissonance, the not belonging, the awareness of performance in day to day life... and of course, the beautiful language!
There must be a corner in V.S. Naipaul's heart living loneliness.Naipaul never really resided somewhere, he was always on the way to seek a way to be free.This book is about memory, love, friendship and childhood but actually nothing, it brings me plenty of emptiness after reading.I miss Naipaul.
এ বইয়ের কাছে আমাকে নিয়ে আসে নইপলের মৃতযু। আর বইটির নায়ক রঞজিত কৃপাল সিং এর জীবন থেকে আমি আবিষকার করি শেকড়হীন পৃথিবীর এক মহান লেখককে। উপনযাসটির গলপ বরণহীন, যেমন রঙ নেই জীবনের উদদেশযহীনতায় ডুবতে থাকা এর পাতর-পাতরীদের জীবনেও। কিনতু ঐ অনধকারের আকরষণ এবং আধুনিক পৃথিবীতে এইসব মানুষের বেঁচে থাকার গলপ কত শকতিশালী গদয আর সততার সঙগেই না করেছেন নইপল। তাকে পরণাম।
এ বইয়ের কাছে আমাকে নিয়ে আসে নইপলের মৃত্যু। আর বইটির নায়ক রঞ্জিত কৃপাল সিং এর জীবন থেকে আমি আবিষ্কার করি শেকড়হীন পৃথিবীর এক মহান লেখককে। উপন্যাসটির গল্প বর্ণহীন, যেমন রঙ নেই জীবনের উদ্দেশ্যহীনতায় ডুবতে থাকা এর পাত্র-পাত্রীদের জীবনেও। কিন্তু ঐ অন্ধকারের আকর্ষণ এবং আধুনিক পৃথিবীতে এইসব মানুষের বেঁচে থাকার গল্প কত শক্তিশালী গদ্য আর সততার সঙ্গেই না করেছেন নইপল। তাকে প্রণাম।
"Siyasetçi" denen şeyin ne olduğunu okurundan daha iyi bilmeyen bir yazar, siyasetçiyi birinci ağızdan anlatmaya kalkarsa sonuç ne olur? Elbette facia. Taklitçiler, çok kötü bir roman.https://okumadansonra.blogspot.com/20...
I really struggled with this book. I just didn't get it. I kept going until the end and it did get better near the very end but I still don't get what the author was trying to say
Such craft, such care in sentence construction, clever conceits charged with brutal honesty.
An incredible writer.
By novel's end, we learn that he's spent nearly 14 months working on these memoirs, which consist of sections that detail, in order, his marriage and financial boom, his upbringing, and his political career and exile.The memoirist begins his story with a setting and image that foster a particular mood, one which he claims to be indulging in even as he concludes his memoirs.
How does memoirist Singh make the parenthetical aspects of his life (the marriage, the wealth, the upbringing with its associations of youthful friends and relatives, the political career that was all empty bombast) serve that mood?
MASTERPIECE
Minic men critiques the tragic futility of post-colonial political leadership. It's protagonist is a collage of the west indian leaders who took their territories to independence. He is a scholar in England; son of a petit-bourgeoisie (by island standards); marries a white woman; he's the east-indian political alley of a charismatic african. For the contemporary Caribbean leader, it's a reminder that ideas like uniqueness and sovereignty are overrated...even fallacious, corruption is easy and that in the end we are all acting roles.
He loves his audience in the way he might love his dogs.' (136)--'Everything about me became temporary and unimportant; I was consciously holding myself back for the reality that lay elsewhere.' (141)--'Success is success; once it occurs it explains itself.' (152)--'We, here on our island, handling books printed in this world, and using its goods, had been abandoned and forgotten.
The Mimic Men is the fictional autobiography of Ralph Singh, although I suspect there is a lot of personal narrative from Naipaul's own life within.
His ability to create three-dimensional, ambiguous characters is impressive, and this combined with the lack of "plot" really mimics real life to an extent where it's hard to believe it's fiction.
It's one of those rare books that speaks truths regarding the human condition that you've vaguely felt but couldn't really place, and articulates them with such clarity that it feels like an itch has finally been scratched.This is the first of Naipaul that I've read, and from what I understand, it's not considered his best novel.
في أماكنهم البعيدة المعزولة يشعر الجميع بأنهم أخف من الريشة حيث لا قيمة حقيقة للأشياء في مواجهة الكم
Ralph Singh, the main character and narrator in the novel, is a 40-year-old colonial minister from a newly independent country in the Caribbean, the island of Isabella.
Singh lives in exile in London and is trying to impose order in his life by writing his memoires.
He is seeking order, and trying to rewrite his life.
To write his own story and to give meaning to his life and existence he considers the notions of history, colonisation, decolonisation, culture, race and politics.
It is a very well written psychological and political novel.
A profound musing on the postcolonial condition of the colonial man.
Those who think it has nothing to say about the human condition evidently haven't read it thoroughly.
Those who think it's entirely maudlin and like it only for its maudlin expressions, are better off reading a hack like Lang Leav.What is so interesting really, is Naipaul's exploration of post-colonial identity.
It's a seminal text of postcolonial studies, and deservedly.I hope this is the next Naipaul book to get the Everyman's Library treatment; I haven't read anything else from his oeuvre (yet) but this is genuinely promising.
Presented as a memoir, issues of class, race and a colonial past are explored through the eyes of one of Isabella's (a Caribbean Island) most interesting inhabitants: Ralph Singh.
The biggest problem with The Mimic Men is its structure.
There are an array of powerful passages that attempt to explain the relationship between nationalism, the new world, and modern identity.
Overall I wish I could give this book five stars, but its structure is too confusing.
I recommend The Mimic Men to those who wish to learn about Caribbean literature or who have an interest in nationalism.
