https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15860.State_of_Fear
I never expected to read this book. But my mom left a copy of Michael Crichton’s book State of Fear at my house, and I found myself reading it. The book is an odd mix of fiction and pseudo-scientific argument. As a fiction piece, it’s actually okay. For reasons that are irrelevant to the plot, evil villains are trying to shear a big iceberg off into the ocean, create a flash flood in a canyon, and make a tidal wave hit LA. The good guys are of course trying to stop them, and manage to stop them
The central argument of the book seems to be: “It’s not clear global warming is caused by people, and even if it is it’s not clear how bad it’ll be, therefore we should do nothing.” The evil villain of the book is a cabal of environmental groups determined to scare the populace to maintain funding for the military-industrial complex in the post- Cold War world.
Global warming is thus fundamentally a hoax perpetrated by tens of thousands of people, in Crichton’s view.
Sadly, Crichton’s book of fiction was not peer reviewed, nor did he face any competition from competing scientific interpretations of the literature about global warming, which allowed this travesty of a rant to be published.-The Cosmopolitian Ecologist
Even if it were a real phenomenon, it would probably result in a net benefit to most of the world." -p407 I just finished reading "State of Fear," Michael Crichton's (creator of ER and author of Jurassic Park, Timeline, and many others) latest novel.
If you have environmentalist leanings, or think that global warming is important, or even real, do yourself a favor and read this book.
The book, like all Crichton novels, is thoroughly researched and the result is a sublime mix of science and technology on one hand and suspense, mystery and action driven plot on the other.
State of Fear is, like many of Crichton's books, a fictional work that uses a mix of speculation and real world data, plus technological innovations as fundamental story line devices.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و یکم ماه فوریه سال 2014 میلادیعنوان: حکومت ترس؛ نویسنده: مایکل کرایتون؛ مترجم: محمد عباس آبادی؛ تهران، البرز، 1392؛ در 731 ص؛ شابک: 9789644428210؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 21 منقل از متن: سقوط کوتاهی بود و احساس سرمای شدیدی به او دست داد.
سپس کم‌ کم احساس کرد بدنش بالا می‌آید.
سپس مارشال دوباره به زیر آب فرورفت، و سردی و سیاهی او را دربرگرفت.
3.5 starsI can’t believe that I am sitting here thinking about this review while Hurricane Sandy’s imminence is being trumpeted just outside my door.Makes you think…..The story itself is about global warming.
I mean people will dig deeper into their pockets if they have been personally impacted by global warming, right.
It can get a little preachy, but for me the story was solid enough to get past that.There is a chilling taste like people scene that quite effectively raised the hackles on the back of my neck.
A cogent theme throughout is the role of politics and fund raising in shaping scientific research.
State of Fear is centered around a plot by eco-terrorists to bring world attention to global warming by, you guessed it, blowing up half the world.
First of all, the book, released in 2004, asks you to believe that there is a "state of fear" being pushed on the public in order to "scare" them into belief of Global Warming so as to wreck the US economy and maintain elitist academia's stranglehold on the world.
That "state of fear" is mentioned nowhere in Crichton's love letter to his friends in the oil Industry and the White House.
If you want to write an essay on your opinion of global warming, Mikey, do so. Don't disguise it as a novel when you've only got 10 pages of plot.
There're 2 basic thrusts: Global Warming is a myth & ecology activists are phenomenally stupid.
The basic plot is what you'd expect: a thriller about 'good' vs 'evil'.
The 'evil' people are the ELF, the Earth Liberation Front - whose name, of course, is directly slanderous of the actual ELF & Earth First!.
Of course, in formula-writing-world, the 'evil' plot HAS to be diabolical so that the 'hero''s genius for defeating it can be exciting.
Kenner, contrary to the dupes & imbeciles of the ecological activists, is a superhuman genius: you know, the guy who can recite an encyclopedic array of scientific 'facts' from memory & shoot machine guns while parachuting?
Exciting book! I've read it 3 times now. After reading State of Fear you'll think everyone who believes in global warming is an idiot. Definitely read the author's message at the end, it's really interesting.
My personal opinion is that the author tries to expose the gross mismanagement of power, greed and disinformation with which ideas are sold to the people on the planet as absolute truths - by both sides of the scientific equation.From personal experience gained over 35 years in conservation circles, dealing with scientists, dreamers and schemers from the highest to the lowest order, as well as ordinary people living in the wilderness, I agree with most of the book!
As a thriller, this books fails to achieve Cricthon's usual intensity.
The plot is an obvious vehicle for the rhetoric, and full of predictable thriller-writer strategies.
The characterizations are flatter than usual, and vicious where he means them to be merely satirical.
In short, this book is a piece of propaganda and would never have been published were it not for Crichton's name brand staus.But his long-honed writerly reflexes kick in enough to make the book readable.
Despite being a bad piece of fiction, it did get me to look hard at some my beliefs and where I got them.
Bad fiction, interesting propaganda.
A striking moment in the novel occurs when a leading environmental advocate is willing to fabricate scientific evidence for his cause.Perhaps one the more enjoyable themes is the hypocrisy of major environmental advocates who rely on faulty research while flying around on private jets and running up enormous energy bills.In his afterword, Crichton states that he believes global warming is a real concern.
State of Fear is meant to push the reader to consider that his or her position on global warming may be based on faulty research and political ideology rather than scientific fact.
I found the objections raised by several other reviewers to be unfounded, the book is pretty good...and since I largely agree with it, I gave it a bump from 3.5 to 4 stars.
While it is the case that if an author wants to make a point and he's writing both sides of a conversation the cards are a bit stacked in his favor, here Crichton does a fairly credible job of offering objections.
(though from the other reviews I've read some disagree with me.) I've run on many of the things said here and I've experience situations like the ones pictured in the book.
First of all, a good, solid Crichton novel.
Second, you will never think about global warming or science in general the same way again...
I don't know how much of the information about global warming presented in the book is true, but it sure does make you wonder about a lot of things.
What the book is really about is the politicization of science and the manipulation (even if unintentional) of scientific information.
Don't miss Crichton's own comments at the end of the novel- especially about eugenics in the U.S.
This is the worst book I have ever had the misfortune of wasting my time with.
Not only are the politics deplorable (it's about a group of eco-terrorists who induce fake desasters to back up their false claims of global warming), it's also shoddily written.
The characters are paper thin and idiotic, the hero is a dim-witted buffoon, and the plot consists of icreasingly boring action-scenes, interrupted by the preachings of an obnoxious Jack Bauer rip-off.
The bad guys all drive Priuses and the good guys SUVs. And at the end Martin Sheen, or his lame-brained stand in, gets eaten by a horde of cannibals.
I'm a big fan of Michael Crichton novels and "State of Fear" isn't an exception.
This is a book that you can read very easily because of it has a well written archetypal and blockbuster Hollywood style.
If you want to read something entertaining and you love the thrillers that mix science, politics and conspiracy theories then this is your book!
;)Espanish version:Soy un gran fan de las novelas de Michael Crichton y "Estado de miedo" no es una excepción.
Si quieres leer algo entretenido y te encantan los thillers que mezclan la ciencia, la política y las teorías de conspiración, entonces, éste es tu libro!
2.0 stars. This book was somewhat of a disappointment for me as I have always been a Michael Crichton fan and the premise of the book (radical environmentalists as the bad guys) was intriguing. However, rather than letting the story or the various arguments make the case against "global warming", Crichton just beats the reader over the head with one-sided monologues. I was hoping for a more thoughful, and thus more powerful, expression of the premise. That said, it was an easy read and there were a few decent points. Okay, but not great.
If you persevere in drawing your own conclusions via studying the science (as Crichton hopes), and if you determine to think beyond your usual biases, you will uncover the facts so you can leave behind the fantasy, just as he did.
The data is not a secret; it is merely ignored.Crichton also defends his position in a personal message after the book's conclusion.
OK, so, controversy concerning global warming aside, this is a pretty solid effort from Crichton.
Particularly more engrossing than Timeline although probably not as believable as Prey.
His readers seem to understand and expect that he will take rather liberal license with stretching the realm of scientific possibility in his stories, but the point is his skeptic characters' sure seem to believe it and that's good enough for me.
The point is, storywise, I think this is pretty solid.
I'm not sure exactly why Crichton is so adamantly anti-Global Warming but I'm not particularly opposed to a healthy dose of skepticism.
It was a very compelling page-turner, and I think Crichton does an excellent job of conveying the message not that global warming is necessarily false or that there aren't things we could all be doing differently in our lives, but that every news headline (and every study too) should be taken with a grain of salt and the data behind it should be scrutinized more strongly by people in general as well as the media before it becomes dogma.
I have also come to the decided conclusion after reading about these people's lives that I would not do well in any extreme situations personally...Antarctic ice shelves, Pacific jungles thick with cannibals & crocodiles...day after Christmas shopping is extreme enough for me...
Global warming zealots are the target here and he hits the bull’s eye, judging from the reaction about this book.
They are all timed to reinforce the outcome of a conference on global warming and a “call to action”.Things pick up at the beginning as a shadowy MIT professor and a friend come into the picture to warn the rich guy off because his money is going to support terrorist activity.
Many of the characters are caricatures, the wimpy lawyer, the drunken big-shot Hollywood actor (who has a delicious part), the strong silent government agent, the hyperactive, crazed global warming activists, the ditzy wife of rich LA guy, etc.
In Trail of Lightning by Rebecca Roanhorse, the world outside the walls of a Navajo reservation is drowned in rising tides.Crichton, interestingly enough, argues not that there is no such thing, but that it doesn't pose the dangers we think it does, and that even if it does, we have no idea how much of global warming is caused by human behavior and how much of it is caused by natural climate cycles.
I absolutely love that about his female characters.It wasn't a full five star read for me- I did think it was a little slow in places, too caught up in the details, and the ending was mildly unsatisfying.
The deck is stacked here.
The lefty environmentalists are dimwitted TV actors who nearly rape women who don't desire their advances, or cynical ideologues, if not actual murderers.
The climate change denialists are clear-thinking, evidence-admiring McGyvers.
When the good guys are being followed by the bad guys, the bad guys are driving Priuses.
The characters are puppets who recite talking points.
They often refer to climate change (nonchange) graphs, which Crichton inserts in the text.
They elucidate the points of books which Crichton includes in his bibliography.
In defiance of the thriller genre, this book is not merely tendentious but deeply boring.
This book can basically be summed up as "CLIMATE CHANGE IS A LIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIE".
Characters constantly say "I can show you the research" or "I can give you the references" solely so that Crichton can add a footnote providing bibliographic information to some article or other.
He claims in the author's note that he spent three years reading environmental and climate change articles and studies.
The whole thing is basically "well meaning rich white people think climate change is real, lemme prove otherwise", and it's kind of exhausting.
YOU DON'T THINK CLIMATE CHANGE IS A THING.
It is not what I would consider my normal genre, but the student I tutored last year did a report on Michael Crichton and this book was in a lot of the research we did.
However, as I read on, I struggled with how much of the book is fact and how much is fiction.
In the Author's Notes at the end:"I have more respect for people who change their views after acquiring new information than for those who cling to views they held thirty years ago.
You'll notice that Jurassic Park and Time Line are still some of my favorite books, but he really lost me with his "State of Fear." It's not just that he is a climate change denier, but more that he completely and totally misrepresents and LIES about science in the process, then claims that he is the only person without an agenda.
Still, this is the only graph Michael Crichton put in his book, claiming that the author exaggerated the effects of climate change.
Every person in his book that believes climate change is happening is a caricature.
اشتريت هذا الكتاب منذ يومين.لا أميل عادة إلى هذا النوع من الكتب، رغم أنها من أظهر أنواع الأدب الحديث
La merda Thrillerucolo da quattro soldi che offre inesattezze scientifiche - vergognosa la parte sul
State of Fear by Michael Crichton Beginning with the mysterious death of a wave analyst in France, this book has its moments of action all around the world; though, the main setting is Los Angeles, California in 2004. It also takes place in Antarctica, the Solomon Islands, Iceland, and several other places throughout the world, all the while chasing after the relentlessly evil plot of the eco-terrorist group ELF. The reason I really enjoyed this book was how you were just dropped in the middle o
One such character like this is Peter Evans.
One character that goes against this is Nick Drake, he is an ex-litigator that turned into an eco-nut after he retired.
It’s not a book for people that think the world is going to end due to global warming for the simple reason that they will only gawk at it and deny all of the references and footnotes.
In closing I would I would like to say that I loved the book, it was a good eye opener that there are more than enough data disproving global warming.
I was involved with through such studies in the 1990s and into the new century, and many of his opinions were ill-founded: although I recognized that the problems he spoke of exist, they are hardly dominant in any of the enviromental fields.He claimed to be a defender of the scientific method regarding an approach to the crises apparent in the world, yet there were obvious gaps in his knowledge.
His suggestion for fixing this issue is just to introduce a new "group" (I forgot the name) which is privately funded and scientifically base: as though this kind of idea hasn't built the current international difficulties.
Even the subject is interesting, the book itself was really naive and easy to predict...That is why I put on only 3 stars...
