https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67695.The_Friendly_Young_Ladies
More than you know, in the author's own afterword she states (and I paraphrase) that anyone who dares think themselves as something other than a carbon based bipedal life form first and foremost DESERVES to be discriminated against and shouldn't mind it.
Maybe believable and relatable to the author (it was her life essentially) or someone like her or someone from that time, but that just isn't enough.
The author (afterword again) proudly states that she made the relationship as explicit as she wanted to...right, like sensors of the time didn't have a field day with this so much so they minded the title.
They, and the way Renault writes about them, are brilliant and hilarious.The rest of The Friendly Young Ladies is more difficult -- it's about Leo's relationship with Joe. I thought that what happens in this part of the story was quite ambiguous, but both afterwords discuss it as though (view spoiler)[it's more firmly established that Leo will leave Helen for Joe. I was surprised by this because I thought that the way Renault describes Leo's crying at the end over Helen's dress that she's found while packing up her own clothes -- first "like the crying of a beaten boy" and then "the tears of a woman" -- could mean that she changed her mind in the middle, and the later tears were crying for the loss of Joe.
In response, finally, to a letter Elsie writes him, Peter then turns up and proceeds to make a play for both Helen and Leo. He is partly successful, but doesn't seem to realise they both have his measure and quite wittily play him for a sucker.If this was all the story was wrapped around, it would have worked, but Renault utterly spoils it by introducing a much more substantial character, Joe Flint, a man raised for a time in Arizona, who now also lives on the river and who writes serious fiction.
There were moments when I thought I would really like this book. But things just didn't go the way they should have. I know, it's up to the author to decide how a book should go, but my wishes for every single character were thwarted and I didn't really like how anyone behaved or ended up.
This was readable enough, I guess, although everything is implied rather than stated, meaning that I have come out of it still not knowing exactly what the relationships between people were and even what happened in the end.
It's not one I'd raise up as an important queer work, because really it's mostly about women sleeping with men, even if those women happen to have a possible relationship with each other as well.
Congregated homosexuals waving banners are really not conducive to a goodnatured 'Vive la difference!'"and"People who do not consider themselves to be, primarily, human beings among their fellow-humans, deserve to be discriminated against..."What an obnoxious human being Renault was!
The titular young ladies are Leo, a trousers-wearing, swaggering author of Western novels under the nom de plume Tex O'Hara, and her lover Helen, a kind-hearted gentle woman with a delicious acerbic streak.
But the story is almost entirely Leo's, and as she comes more and more into focus - and finally comes apart at the seams - the book reveals depths of psychological insight and compassion.
And, it's very nearly a dirty trick, coming as it does in a book that until then had been light and funny, quick-witted and deliciously trenchant.
Quote from the back cover: "Set in 1937...a romantic comedy of off-Bloomsbury bohemia...Mary Renault wrote this delightfully provocative novel in the early 1940s, creating characters that are lighthearted, charming, and free-spirited partly in answer to the despair characteristic of Radclyffe Hall's The Well of Loneliness or Lillian Hellman's The Children's Hour.
The result is a witty and stylish story that offers exceptional insight into the world of upcoming writers and artists in 1930s London, chronicling their rejection of society's established sexual mores and their heroic pursuit of art and life."  I may never read The Well of Loneliness or The Children's Hour.
I read this in 2005 and found it to be incredibly frustrating. For one thing, don't believe any of the blurbs on the back of the book - this book is neither a romance nor a comedy. It doesn't really have much at all to say about artists communities in the '30s. And for that matter, it doesn't really have that much to say about lesbian relationships either. The characters are mostly either dispicable or tragic. After reading this, I wrote a long exposition of my problems with this book here: http://magnetgrrl.livejournal.com/132... It's very spoilery.
"Stifled by life with her bickering parents in a bleak Cornish village, Elsie Lane flees to London to find her sister Leonora who escaped eight years earlier."But there are surprises in store for conventional Elsie: not only does Leo live on a houseboat, she writes Westerns for a living and shares her boat -- and her bed -- with the beautiful Helen."Elsie's arrival is the first in a series of events that will set Leo and Helen's contented life spiralling away from cosy domesticity.
And if The Friendly Young Ladies is meant to be a less despairing book than The Well, I'm not quite sure I can see it.The characters of Elsie and Peter are humorous in their absolute inability to understand anything that goes on around them.
I'm horribly afraid that the central message of the book is that a lesbian just needs the love of a good man in order to become a real woman.Renault's afterword to this edition, written in 1983, acknowledges that the ending didn't work and that the idea of Leo and Joe living happily ever after was ludicrous.
Like all of Renault's books, this is beautifully written with richly drawn characters, and it's not like the story is BAD, but it does take you in entirely unexpected directions in entirely unsatisfactory ways.
(The girls do make fun of him a lot but he's so completely oblivious and self-satisfied that he rarely ever notices, which rather takes the fun out of it.)While the younger sister's painfully gauche, overly sentimental and entirely blind perspective is at least amusing to a degree, the amount of attention that was given to the titular ladies' relationships with men in general, and the two primary male characters of the novel, was frankly just frustrating, especially since there is next to no focus on the established relationship between the women (as another reviewer put it, it's a story about lesbians with no lesbianism).
Definitely worth reading!
I don't know that I would call this a romantic comedy. I doubt I ever came near to laughing, nor was there much actual romance. I liked some of the writing, the descriptions of people's feelings and thought, but much of it seemed wordy and vague. The focus of the story was all over the place, which I didn't care for. I doubt I'll seek out another title by this author.
Elsie llega a meter drama a la vida de estas dos mujeres.Una novela muy basada en el desarrollo de los personajes.
Creo que Leo es la personaje principal y no Elsie, pero bueno.
Un libro muy basado en desentrañar las bases psicológicas de la personalidad de los personajes.No me gustó el final, me pareció algo forzado, pero bueno.
Recomendado a quienes gusten de un drama literario bien escrito._____________Real rating: 3.5 stars.In this book we follow Elsie, a 17 year old girl with lots of troubles at home, who decides to run away looking for her sister, who ran away 8 years before.
After I finished this, I had to do a little research into the author and how the book was received in order to feel like I'd really gotten it.
The language is great; I was struck how how strongly I was seeing the scenes in my mind while I was reading.
It's set in a time period I'm really interested in, and I liked getting another perspective.
There was SO much that was implied and never stated, and I just didn't feel like I had the key to understanding it.
I'd definitely recommend this as an engrossing read, but it wasn't a straightforward one for me at all.
Renault wrote this as a response to Radclyffe Hall's The Well of Loneliness, as a much lighter, less doom-and-gloom story of lesbian life, set in 1930s Britain.
It's definitely quirky and witty, but then my god it's wrenchingly sad.
Like Renault's novel The Charioteer, this is a book that holds you and holds you and then in the final moments draws back and knifes you in the chest.
It's not even the tragedy you would expect; it's somehow worse than that.
Five stars.
And five more stars for the scene where Leo(nora) shuts down a Freudian mansplainer by stealing his girlfriend.
I loved Leo and her corduroy slack-wearing, cigarette-smoking, western-writing tomboyishness. Loved the casually bohemian tone of it all. The ending was a bit melodramatic and a bit unsatisfying but otherwise this was delightful and written with great charm and quiet insinuation.
I saw myself reflected in Leo, and I adored Helen.
Rather than critiquing Hall's misery-filled "Well of Loneliness," Renault appears to lose control of the narrative in the final third, and as a result, the heretofore happy relationship between Leo and Helen takes a tragic turn.
Rather it emulates the melodrama that Renault rightfully criticizes in Hall's "Well."As far as I'm concerned, this book is the 1940s equivalent of "The Kids are All Right," a frustrating movie that had SO MUCH POTENTIAL to be something good and bright for the WLW community!
I like this book for very selfish reasons.
(I happened to get it free on Kindle and landed on it a few days ago.) I've read so many independently and self-published authors that it was absolutely delightful to read a book that was EDITED.
I have rather ambiguous feelings for the book.
I liked Leo and Helen, but wasn't all that thrilled with some of the things Leo did.
I was surprised to read that this book was considered a comedic romance.
Elsie's young and sheltered, Peter's a manipulator, Leo's strong-willed, Helen's the most comfortable with herself, and Joe is in orbit of all of them just to be near Leo. The descriptions certainly bring the book alive.
gorgeous writing, lots of metaphors, strong well shaped characters, very witty and smirky (for example: there's a scene where a swan bites a guy just as he's about to complete his move on a girl.) weak plotting, poor ending, not great structure - we start off with elsie but it's really a framing device for leo & helen, who have a friends with benefits relationship.
Could have been a very good short story....
I greatly enjoy Renault’s work. Lovely
lol, this book, omg. So many things to delight and frustrate the contemporary reader!
(This subplot allows Renault to get in some licks at the hierarchy of the whole medical profession as well as the obtuseness of straight males.) A second subplot deals with a tentative heterosexual romance between the older sister and the writer who has been advising her in her cowboy novels.
Whether these thoughts are Renault's thoughts about her own process, they fit with the characters and are interesting in themselves.Renault is said to have commented in an afterword to a later republication of this book that representing a Lesbian or bisexual woman going off with a straight man as a "happy" ending was questionable to her.
Oh god, how much I regret flicking to the back of this book to see if this edition had the dreaded afterword other reviewers have mentioned - where in a single-sentence paragraph Mary Renault manages to spoil her own book.
So I have to repeat myself here, don't read on if you don't like spoilers.
And don't read the afterword before you've read the book.
And way to hate on males - I liked Joe until he decided that Peter was showing an interest in Leo so he'd take her out on a punt and beat her and then rape her.
(edit: read the afterword.
I accept the author's preference for a more fluid depiction of sexual identity (evident in both this book's lesbian characters' sexual relationships with men and apparently in Renault's own life and that of her partner, upon which the aforementioned characters are apparently arguably based); and I can appreciate to some degree the author's critical reaction to Radclyffe Hall's rather more dismal and didactic lesbian novel (the infamous 'The Well of Loneliness') of a few decades earlier, given Hall's relative class privilege (Renault relays in the afterword that she wrote this as an alternative to what she saw as a whole lot of whining from Hall about something that really wasn't that big a deal--even though homophobia in her home country seems to have driven Renault and her partner to South Africa to live out their days - hmmm).
I'm still not entirely sure about what's going on in Leo's head but it seems like she doesn't always have much of an idea either, so that seems fitting.
In some ways he almost seems as naive as Elsie compared to them, mainly because he assumes he knows what's going on in people's heads when in reality it's much more complex.Elsie herself I found pretty infuriating, possibly because I saw more of myself in her than I'd like (or at least how I was when I was a teenager).
I'd like to think that she grew out of that and Leo and Helen were good influences on her.
Mostly my mind just keeps going back to Leo though.
The Friendly Young Ladies may be read as a comedy of manners, a meditation on what it means to relate to others as sexual and intellectual equals, as an exploration of what identifies inner freedom (and the consequences thereof), and finally, as an absorbing tale of people who live very differently.
Renault's delicate writing is perfect for this tale.
In other hands the story would have been heavy-handed; the way she writes, it's very funny and moving at the same time.
Several reviewers mention being annoyed by the afterwords.
Finally, this is her only book that takes the viewpoint of females while contemplating sexual definitions and relations.
Peter’s male arrogance is nicely done and he deserves all he gets, but neither Joe or Leo deserved their unkind fate, which provided a very downbeat ending.
Much is made in the novel of “how things like that only happen in books” and this is clearly a comment by Renault about striving in her writing for a more naturalistic style.
So, for all her posturing, the ending is unreal – people do not pack their bags and leave the next day because they have had an ill-judged love affair.
For a better example of how to write an upbeat lesbian novel see “Carol” by Patricia Highsmith.
I enjoyed this book immensely and had trouble putting it down at times — not due to action-packed drama, but from a keen personal interest in the nuanced interactions of its characters.
homosexuality, to me the major tension was between spontaneous, practical living vs.
living to fulfill some preconceived romantic structure.
The two romantic idealists in the book eventually become sadly ludicrous, and their final actions actually made me laugh aloud.
This was one of several books by Renault added to my list after reading her The Last of the Wine, and thus far has been the one I've enjoyed the most.
