https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/478951.The_Bonehunters
Not only this installment is filled with enough content to fit an entire trilogy, The Bonehunters marks the first time Erikson converged almost all the plotlines, characters, and world-building within his previous five books into one.
The story of the book started after the end of House of Chains, which is approximately seven months after the epilogue in Memories of Ice. This was a story that revolved heavily around humanity, conceit, leadership, loyalty, companionship, life and death; and of course, gods, religion, and fanaticism.
Almost every character that we have met from the beginning and their respective arcs or subplots were coming together to form a more cohesive narrative across all the volumes of the series so far.
The multiple switches between POVs in a single book chapter (which can be very long in itself) worked really well, conveying a tension of what's happening 'on-screen' in a cinematic manner.
Power!Art by Noah BradleyWith the numerous characters, both familiar and new, and almost too many individual arcs or subplots to bother counting, I will only mention the highlights of this book for me.
Full review now posted!When you reach a certain point in a large series it’s hard not to be repetitive in your reviews. Not about the specific book you are reviewing, but your thoughts and what you enjoyed about it. So, bear with me if this looks like I plagiarized myself from a previous review. “As with all things, layer settles upon layer, and in time the deepest, darkest ones become forgotten – yet they have shaped all that lies above”  HOLY SHIT! This book was amazing. The Bonehunters is vyi
Full review now posted!When you reach a certain point in a large series it’s hard not to be repetitive in your reviews.
There are a couple of new story arcs thrown in the mix too, but the majority are familiar characters from previous books.
It’s no doubt one of Erickson’s strong points is how he ends each book.
The final sequence in The Bonehunters is no exception, and it occurs in a place we have spent very little time until now.
I didn’t feel there was a big build up to the end of this one like in some of the other books.
And it will, I suspect, draw into its fray virtually every ascendant from all the realms."This sixth book seems to be a full convergence of all the important characters and plotlines of the Malazan Book of the Fallen.
New enemies await outside and inside the corridors of power.
The pieces of the board are moving in new directions.
And hidden intrigues are mixed with open battles as the future of the world begins to unravel.I'll have to concur with the popular view that The Bonehunters is probably the best book in the Malazan series.
Malazan Book of the Fallen reviews:
It is one of those books that you might give a bit more time because even I, who am very good at remembering arcs and players and usually have no problem figuring things out, even I had to return to previously read pages and check again on a name and see who did something, because the details, the action, and the stories within the story, on top of the vast mythology and history of the Malazan World, are monumentally vast and the smallest details matter.
This was another fantastic instalment in the Malazan series.
Fantastic world building, a complex plot, a huge cast of characters each with their own set of motivations and goals, an incredibly cool magic system, fantastic action scenes featuring battles that were both mundane and sorcerous in nature, dragons, demons, strange non-human creatures, and a whole bunch of meddlesome gods!
In this sixth Malazan Book of the Fallen instalment the action focused on three major story arcs: 1.
The cast for Bonehunters included a real mix of characters from the last 5 books as well as a few interesting newcomers.
Never bargain with a man who has nothing to lose. Its official, this series is now my favourite series, it keeps getting better with each book. This book even surpassed MOI, my former favourite in the series. Here we are reunited with the old characters that we know and love, with some new ones. The events in this book happened after HoC and MT, finally a normal succession. There is no shortage if race or religion in this book, this book is so diverse and the female characters are as great as
Tonight.''Fist Keneb will have you strung up, you know.''We'll make it look like an accident.''Wipe that grin off your face, Lieutenant,' Kindly said, 'or I'll conclude you've lost your mind and promote you.''Apologies, Captain, I promise I won't do it again.
His conversations with Samar is one of my favourite things in this book, he even listens to her.My beloved Cotillion has a POV, though it was sporadic I loved it, it helped me to know him better, he is so unlike a god, even Trull and Apsalar said that, I hope he doesn’t change, not that it will stop me from loving him.
"And so we weep for the fallen. We weep for those yet to fall. And in war the screams are loud and harsh and in peace the wail is so drawn-out we tell ourselves we hear nothing." Can a sixth book in the series have a 'second book syndrome'? Syndrome where book serves as a bridge we need to cross in order for the story, plot and characters to move forward? A bridge from introduction in the first book towards final conclusion? Considering how three out of five books so far were a constant introdu
Considering how three out of five books so far were a constant introduction of new characters and new settings, where story and world were developing - outward and inward - when I look back from where we came from, pause and try to figure out where are we heading, it seems to me that this book have everything we need in order to say it suffers from that second book syndrome.Especially when I think about second half of this book.Now, I’m not one of those naysayers of this issue, it’s actually not an issue for me, at all.
It's hard to know what to say when you first put the book down.This instalment fights hard to be the best of the series, it is in my top 3 without doubt.
Other BIG THINGS (no spoilers) include: my serious crush on Cotillion being deepened in to true love; 'I'd kill the mule' (wait for it); the climax of death which is of such a grand scale that when you get up from reading you expect your feet to squish down into the blood and viscera still leaking from the pages.Anyway, if that doesn't make you want to read it, what will??
Best one so far.Erikson is getting better and better as writer, he was always great storyteller he is getting better in other spheres as well.
We seen that in Midnight tides which as much better pace, great worldbuilding and more balanced PoVs and now we see it in more familiar setting.Again backbone of this book are interesting character and they are better than ever.Some of my favorites:Ganoes Paran has finally accepted what he is become and we are seeing different face of him.
Knowing the big picture and end game you see crumbs cast long before you did the first time.
(view spoiler)[Shadowthone (hide spoiler)] I don't know why (view spoiler)[Cottilion (hide spoiler)] didn't dump your scheming ass long ago.
I hope (view spoiler)[Laseen (hide spoiler)] also gets what she has coming to her and good luck dealing with (view spoiler)[Rel and Dom  (hide spoiler)] and the rest of the vipers nest.
Most great books have an epic ending.
With convergences and characters clashing at different point throughout the book but especially at the end where duplicity ruled the night.
'Aye,' he said in a rasp, 'we went hunting… through the bones of the damned city.
And then we crawled outa that grave.' The Adjunct's gaze left the ragged man, traveled slowly, along the line, the gaunt faces, the deathly eyes staring out from dust-caked faces.
'Bonehunters in truth, then.' She paused, then said 'Welcome back, soldiers.'  Another really strong installment in this series.
Also it had possibly the best pacing of any book in the series so far with very few uninteresting sections and compelling stuff happening throughout the story rather than just at the end.
Up til this point, Memories of Ice was the only time that we've had more than a few characters come back.
Although, after Memories of Ice, it really hasn't been all that hard to follow along.Erikson's writing in this book is just above and beyond.
It was awesome to get a book where you never felt that boredom.
The characters in this book were what helped make this book as great as it was.
We also get some great insight into T'Amber, and she might have stolen the book for one of the best scenes.
The true one is only beginning now and is clearly transcends puny things like ascendants, empires and the bones of power they fight over.*Chapter 24: Dear me, I can breath now.
The Malazan Empire has the Malaz City and I hope it survives the reckoning.Chapter 16: Captain Kindly, now that is a true hero of the empire.
Chapter 11: The end of book two get me truly dismayed and unable to hop.Chapter 10: The greatest spell of all magi and sorcerers and wizards: "I hope this works".
All I can give you is a chapter breakdown of my own boning out (or maybe boning in?).The Malazan Book of the Fallen:1.
Holy hell, Batman, what a book! This is the book where things start to get going. The basis has been laid, the necessary history lessons have passed the revue and now we really get to it. The whole story was fast paced with quick POV changes that usually only show up around the climax. There were so many climaxes in this book, so many great scenes, the punches kept on coming, battle after battle, from large scale to one on one.5 stars to the nth power (Malazan is in a class of its own).
I think at the end of Bonehunters you really start to grasp how Epic this tale is, and why it can never be matched.
The character development was superbly done and as usual different plots converge in the end into arguably the best climax i've read so far, i mean i held my breath for three chapters straight, it was intense and very rewarding.
some notable characters: Cotillion, he was amazing.
Ganoes Paran, Fiddler, Kalam/Quick Ben, Bottle, Karsa, Aspalar, Tavore(finally i like her), Faradan Sort(legend), Corabb and we cant forget Hellian.I feel privileged to read this series.
My favorite one in the series so far, so much going on.
This one was the most "cinematic" for me.
Erikson does such a great job with large scale and small scale fighting, I never have to reread fist-to-fist more up close personal scenes or the longer wider battles and he keeps the shit believable.
I have a nine year old nephew who is reading Harry Potter right now and I was saying today I can't wait for him to get a little older so I can introduce him to these gems.
Beyond amazing storytelling that does not insult your intelligence.
It's a whopping 1,200 pages, and much as I love the Malazan characters and world I did find myself baulking a little at the size when I first got it in the post and saw the amount of pages!However, with that said I still thought it was a very good book on the whole and one which I enjoyed a lot.
He can change your opinion on any character and creates sympathy in you for characters you never thought you could have any interest in.The pacing throughout The Bonehunters was better than previous books, but as always, the ending was beyond expectations.
The coolest thing about the ending of this novel is that you have a lot of the characters in previous novels finally coming together and the last 3 or 4 chapters, I did not want to put the book down at all.
By now, he's killed off many of his main characters, and I don't have the sense that anyone in these books is at all safe.
It no longer feels to me like Gandalf redux, and is simply a part of his world.The main difficulty I'm now having with these books is my level of confusion with some of the characters motives.
He's an amazing character, and very cool, but I find him to be very confusing.When I'm done with this series, I may have to go back and re-do my ratings for the individual books.
It really isn't the books fault all the stories are just so dense and full details that go with other details that you really have to pay a lot of attention and I just didn't have the time I needed to devote to that.
I mean if you have to read a forum after ever chapter to understand the implications of that chapter it starts to feel more like homework than fun.I am taking a series break.
I really want to finish the series but my mindset isn't where it needs to be to do that now.
This is the first book from the series which has a very gripping middle part.
My (fairly) major complain: one of the characters died an almost meaningless death almost being a casualty.
The problem with it is that we have a lot of his inner thoughts during at least two other books for this person to be killed without accomplished almost anything.
It seems victory is assured; there is only one minor problem: it seems a lot of people and quite a few gods are not interested in this victory, quite the opposite.
I found myself torn over and over again between feeling exhilarated and thrilled with the action, the writing, the return of beloved characters and also frustrated, angry, and lost with the sheer complexity of the story, the countless number of points of view, and so many characters that I often had to back track and look them up on wiki to set things straight.
Thank God for Wikipedia.The Bonehunters is a very dark and action filled novel brimming with magic, swords, Warrens, and creatures.
If you have read the series so far, you already know what to expect and will surely read this one as you move on.A giant story with an even larger cast.
So I’ll try and stick to some of the basics of plot and theme for those looking to see what’s up next after Midnight Tides.In broad strokes this book is a continuation of the events in House of Chains so we are back to Seven Cities, reuniting with Tavore’s 14th army as they pursue the remnants of the Apocalypse Rebellion.
And it's all I want to read.
Also, it does meander a bit in the middle so it's not as tight as the previous one.Erikson is so gifted at making me care about so many characters.
So many things that make me want to immediately delve into the next book, Erikson has left me hanging!
And I've promised to read another book for a group I'm in.
However, Erikson is very clear with his philosophies - no, not lecturing at all but through the action and the characters - so we are appalled by much of it, yet fascinated by the action.
As much as I made fun of the previous book, Midnight Tides, as being the quintessential Malazan book (huge new cast of characters, place we had never been to before, time period before the main arc, etc.), The Bonehunters struck me as a very conventional, but still quite excellent, novel.
Like I said before, this was very much about re-positioning characters (both spatially and relationally) instead of ruminating on the invisible chains that bind us (Hour of Chains) or the invisible social structures that mold our outlook (Midnight Tides).This book touches on just about every previous plot line in the series, giving us a nice, linear progression of each of them.
Click, clack is the sound of the bones I've bound to my hair.
Clack, click is the sound of the bones on my clothes.
And if you just think of that place as Dassem Ultor's final fight, you, my friend, were not.
Does the smell of D'rek amuse you so?But who truly understands the gods?
Do you think it would fit in words?You need to feel this world to understand the impossibility of such a task.
Bind it to your hair or clothes and hear its promise in the wind, click clack, clack click...on every single page.
I haven’t finished the series yet but I’m pretty sure Seven Cities is gonna stay my favorite Malazan setting/continent/arc, and thusly probably my favorite fantasy setting/continent/arc.
Last thing: I’m pretty sure this contains the funniest moment in the books thus far in (view spoiler)[the scene with Stormy shitting his life out over the rail of the Silanda while Captain Kindly retches most hilariously at the sight.
There's few of your favorite characters that won't show up in this one...but I guess with such a ridiculously huge cast that could mean like 20 people and a god or two.I know for a lot of Erikson fans including myself the Seven Cities plotline has been one of the most memorable.

3.75 stars.I almost dropped it to 3 stars, as there were lots of WTF moments and confusing drawn out parts. In truth, this book could have probably been half the length and been just as good (as long as it was the right half).The Bonehunters were great. Paran, Kalam and Quick Ben, and Karsa Orlong. Oh, and I loved (view spoiler)[our first real interaction with Laseen, the Empress. (hide spoiler)] Badass stuff. When this book was good, it was fantastic. When not as good, it was like a big, long "
Oh, and I loved (view spoiler)[our first real interaction with Laseen, the Empress.
When not as good, it was like a big, long "huh?"I can't in good conscience recommend or push this series anymore.
I didn't have any problem with it.The second and third books blew me away, they were so good.The fourth was a monkey spank.
Let's be honest.The fifth was better again, but still a lot of "huh"?
Lots of b.s. wtfery, and each book seems to pile it on rather than clear things up.That said, when it's good, it's really fucking good.
