https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16006.Paradise
As good, if not better the second (or maybe it is the third) time around. #Ilovemattfarrell.  EXQUISITETORMENTINGMAGIC Yes, this book had it all. It was epic. Won’t say too much about it and won’t give too many quotes as it just needs to be read and felt…. This is my first contemporary by Ms McNaught. I have read her Historicals and they have been solid, five stars for me. This book was written nearly 25 years ago. Does it seem dated? A little bit, the fact that there are no mobile phones, some
This book was written nearly 25 years ago.
But theirs is not a straightforward Happily Ever After.It is set in Chicago, actually the last few books I have read have been set in Chicago, is this an omen that I must return to visit this wonderful city!This is their story, it spans about 12 years, from when she is 18 until she turns 30.
It is a long book but well worth it.
I have the strangest – the uneasiest – feeling,” she admitted, lifting her head and looking at him with unguarded candor, “that something is happening, or going to happen, and it’s terrible.
I was so emotionally distraught and actually on the verge of a heart attack towards the end of the book that I had to skim through to the happy ending then I forced myself to go to sleep to get some rest before going back and re-reading the last 60 pages when I was a lot calmer the next day.
I know I'm going to disappoint a lot of you when I say this, but Paradise came SO CLOSE to becoming my all-time favorite book and I was thinking it would definitely end up being number one when I read the beginning but in the end I just can't give the book that title.
NO IDEA HOW MANY STARS3.5 MAYBE?For the love of God, I can’t decide if this book is brilliant or just ridiculous.I was so excited when I finally put my hands on it because I had heard so many great things about it. Because of that, my expectations were  too very  high.I can't exactly say I was disappointed because I did like the story. If you compare it to some of today's romances, this is a WORK OF ART.It has an interesting, engaging and charming storyline (albeit at times ruined with too many
If you compare it to some of today's romances, this is a WORK OF ART.It has an interesting, engaging and charming storyline (albeit at times ruined with too many details and unnecessary twists, ridiculous misunderstandings and mood changes, but let's not split hairs on that because it is still a very good storyline).The characterization is well-done, although you can’t really avoid getting to know the characters and understanding their backgrounds, backstories and personalities after 700+ pages.
But let's not split hairs on that either, I would choose a long book over a novella any day.The writing is very good, albeit with a touch of cheese here and there.
*For such a long ass book, I'm keeping this review short*My first thoughts on reading a 709 page long book...WTF?After some 'encouragement' from my buddy Effie...
Then...shit seriously got real after page 80!Then more...It has so much unexpected surprises that got me so excited.
Thinking finally its going to all work out...Only to leave me highly emotional, experiencing palpitations, anxiety...And an extreme urge to murder one particular motherfucker...This book had it all, from drama, second chances, sweet love to unbearable sadness and forgiveness.
I know, crazy after 709 ages :S People go read this book, its amazing...
The biggest drawback to this book and the only reason it took me so long to read it, was the length--709 pages!!
Believing something for so long only to realize it was wrong was both freeing and debilitating.
This was also a very emotional and affecting book, it had me laughing, crying and hoping for the ending I craved.The last third and epilogue were lovely and although I felt the reentry of (view spoiler)[Meredith's mom was rushed as well as her reconciliation with Meredith's father--I felt it deserved much more than a brief paragraph of intention--I also felt the story couldn't handle yet another plot twist (hide spoiler)].
I was so happy to finally see Meredith stand up for something she believed in, something her father prohibited, it was sweet destiny.
I had this sitting on my book shelf for 3 years since 2002 and never read it until 2004, not because I didn't have the time, but because I thought it didn't sound interesting and wondered what can a romance author write within a 708 page book, like come on seriously.
I found it so true what people say in their reviews, its like you just don't want it to end, I actually was at the end of the book and felt a little disappointed because I was getting ready to turn the page and it was the end...GET IT...READ IT...TREASURE IT.
Me and my group of girlfriends all shared the same book.
I remember thinking the sex scenes were so risqué, and I would blush just reading them.Now 15 years later, this book doesn't seem risqué at all.
I could remember bits and pieces of the story, and I was dying to finish it to see how things ended.
He is a self made man, he is determined, strong willed, compassionate, loving, and forgiving.
Present time I am still reading with my girlfriends, we just don't have to share a book now.
MWAH Ladies I love reading with you!!
The characters and the plot were similar to many of the other books that I have read.Virgin heroine meets a guy who sleeps around, they fall in love, misunderstandings happen, they break up and then meet again years later.
In these years, the hero becomes very successful and sleeps around with dozens of other women.
The heroine, however, only sleeps with one other guy, which she doesn't find very satisfying.
It was the hero's responsibility also to have ensured otherwise.
I also didn't like how the heroine accepted the blame and responsibility...
There are some dramatic moments, some funny moments, and some sweet moments...and they get a HEA ending.POV: This alternated between focusing mainly on Meredith and Matt in 3rd person narrative, but it also focused on some outside characters as well.Overall Pace of Story:  Not so great.
I appreciated how she remained sweet and so caring even after all she went through.Sadness level: Low, no tissues neededPush/Pull: Yes (view spoiler)[ They both push away (h more so) and pursue the relationship (H more so) at times.
(hide spoiler)]Sex scene with OW or OM: No Cheating:  Yes (view spoiler)[The h was engaged to another man when reunited with the H.
(hide spoiler)]Closure:  This had way too an abrupt ending for my liking!
Más tarde he comprendido que la autora quiere que conozcamos de primera mano la personalidad de Meredith.
Un mini capítulo en el que aparece por primera vez Matt y que le da vidilla al asunto.A mí el libro me ha encantado!!!!!!
Los dos protagonistas, Matt y Meredith , son personajes fuertes, redondos, y con una alta personalidad.
La historia de amor entre ellos me parece preciosa y la conversación que tienen cuando descubren la verdad me ha tocado el alma: lagrimitas...!El mundo laboral de los dos protagonistas es un temamuy presente en el libro.
My only real excuse is that I was saving it for one of those days you just need to read a book you'll completely adore.
The plot might have been a bit shallow and unreal (rich, silly girl hooks up with much older poor boy and ends up pregnant), but the romance, the feelings and all the impediments to get their HEA were way too real.
Not that I'm complaining, I still had an amazing time reading it, I loved this read so much that I skipped work a day because I couldn't put the book down.
Judith McNaught made me realise or think, for the first time, that perhaps I could play in another team.God help me!I am in love... with Meredith.
This was heavenly.Paradise has convinced me to give Judith McNaught another shot. Maybe I should have started with this one, since Matt was her only hero who I didn't want to punch in the face repeatedly. His devotion to Meridth was beautiful beyond words. 10 hours splendidly spent!I hope this feeling persists throughout my Judith McNaught binge. Just not another Jason or Clayton please.
A ver si me acuerdo de lo que puse.Si este libro solo fuera sobre Matt le daría 5 estrellas sin dudarlo, pero no sólo de el vive "Paraíso".
La historia de amor entre los dos protagonistas es muy bonita y a veces muy triste, hay un rollo ochentero de amor y lujerio que me ha hecho bastante gracia y hasta me ha parecido bien el instalust e instalove, con un hombre como Matt todo es creíble.
Pero se me ha hecho un poco largo y el final me ha parecido predecible y precipitado.
2.75 starsUgh. This was painful for me.When you are feeling like this while reading:   It's not so fun.*sigh* I was expecting something really great for Matt and Meredith after reading Perfect. But the emotional pay off in this was close to zilch for me. When you spend 650 out of 700 pages of the book keeping the hero and heroine apart, despising and disparaging each other, thinking the worst and having the wife  insistent  on marrying someone else and doesn't love the hero at all 90% into the s
Here it was like sitting through a never-ending forced therapy session with a lovesick hero and a belligerent heroine talking about their entire relationship from conception all the way to a very rushed floundering reunion that seemed 200 pages too late.
She is presented as this self-embodied perfect poised independent business woman who doesn’t have a hateful bone in her body, but JM took it too far and morphed her into a brittle selfish haughty snob who acted like she was better than Matt when they meet again 11 years later.
I loved the characters and it is obvious that McNaught loved them too, because both Meredith and Matt are drawn with great care.The only reason I’m not giving it a higher rating, is because it really is a work a fiction and you don’t get to forget that fact.
Matt and Meredith’s love story is very sweet and very unreal at the same time.
I liked Meredith more than Matt to be honest, because even though she is rich/beautiful/smart/caring/and so on, she has worries and thoughts and insecurities that make you feel like she’s a real person.
Love...Originally read: September 2009Paradise, by Judith McNaught, is a great contemporary novel that’s filled with love, corporate intrigue, humor, deception and friendship.
The main characters, Matt Farrell and Meredith Bancroft, are immediately weaved into the novel with plenty of back story to give you a full picture of their journey when they meet, go their separate ways, and later reunite.
The story is about two strong willed people, Meredith Bancroft and Matt Farrell, who fall in love at a young age and get married.
Second, there were two secondary characters I didn’t care for at all, which included Phillip, Meredith’s father, and Lisa, her best friend.
My first contemporary by Judith McNaught gave me some of her fun emotional connection and a good amount of eye glazing department and corporate talk.
Unfortunately, Matt and Meredith don't spend a lot of time together.
There was some high drama, with a lot of it coming from Meredith when she was upset, she was portrayed a pretty dramatic; it seemed to be feeding into this time period's love of overstating the thought that women are high strung emotional beings.
I would have liked the corporate talk 80% slashed, Matt and Meredith spending more time together, and less of a rushed ending.
I just reread this book now that it's available in digital form and, while I'll keep it at 5 stars for the nostalgia factor, there's quite a bit about it that's just wrong.In fact, it has a lot of the same problems that Whitney My Love has for me (and that one I either didn't rate or rated very low).
I have (and always had) a huge problem with Meredith (view spoiler)[forgiving her father so readily for all his misdeeds.
I spent a lot of the day yesterday reading this book and I was happy to be doing it.
4.5 Stars “If you'll kiss me back, I'll make it six million. If you'll go to bed with me tonight, I'll give you the world. But if you'll move in with me, I'll do much better than that.""Six million dollars and the whole world! What else could you possibly give me if I move in with you?" "Paradise." I feel like it took me forever to finish this, but only because real life (and live sports) kept getting in the way. I believe it's safe to say that this one had unbelievable staying power because if
4.5 Stars
“If you'll kiss me back, I'll make it six million.
If you'll go to bed with me tonight, I'll give you the world.
But if you'll move in with me, I'll do much better than that.""Six million dollars and the whole world!
What else could you possibly give me if I move in with you?" "Paradise."
I believe it's safe to say that this one had unbelievable staying power because if this was a lesser book, I probably wouldn't have stayed interested and emotionally invested until the very end, what with all the reading breaks that I had.
It's a long book after all.
I thought then that she was ‘nothing’ compare to other heroine of mcnaughts novels like Victoria (once and always), Elizabeth (almost heaven), and Alex (something wonderful) who’s for so many times proved that they really loved the hero despite all the heartaches, and pains and mistrust they received.
Unlike Meredith whose trust for Matt was always on the critical stage.
but as the story goes by, my fascinations towards her were slowly fading until I almost got angry and silently wondering WHAT THE HELL WAS MCNAUGHT THINKING GIVING MATT THAT KIND OF HEROINE?!.
Let me just start by saying, that I’ve been tangled in the worst book slump for weeks now- weeks I tell you!
Well, that is, until I read this little gemstone of a book.
I had no idea what to expect from this, especially having gone in completely blind.
She has a distinct way of completely bringing her characters to life.
This book was so much more than just a love story.
I don’t want to give too much away, but this book is a must read!Brace yourself for Matthew Farrell, Ladies - he will knock your socks off!
This is one of the most virtually sizzling books I’ve read lately.
Why virtually?
Because nothing is openly described, but it was sizzling all the same.
I couldn’t stop reading it!Yes, it is long, but I found myself wishing it was longer, just to be able to linger there a little bit more!Everything has already been told about this book, so I wouldn’t be adding nothing new, but I couldn’t, just couldn’t not say that it is a wonderful book!Thanks, Mona, for recommending this book to me!
This goes down as one of the top 5 romances, I have ever read. This book defines the genre and is everything a reader would want in a romance novel. The author does a tremendous job in laying the foundation and framework for us to understand the heroine. And what a heroine! Meredith Baxter is one of my all time favorites. The ugly duckling that turns into the swan, and I found myself rooting all the way for her, because she was not only beautiful on the outside, but on the inside! A must read.
She is presented on the first pages as being very smart and then we are given close to 500 pages to prove that she is anything but.I half-liked this book because the first 200 pages, all of the back story, could have been done in maybe ten pages since when they meet up later, they're going to recall and talk over everything that happened.
From that point on, the story begins to move quicker and I liked it from that point but the beginning truly goes on too long.Matt is a great character, well-developed and his motivation is easy to understand.
"If you're still willing to take me there," she said, swallowing almost painfully, "I thought I'd like to see paradise." LOVED this!!!!
yes, I was 12(!!!) when I read this for the first time and it totally blew my mind!!!
Then I saw that my ABSOLUTELY FAVORITE author had written a *GASP* contemporary romance (turns out she had previously written 2 other contemporary novels, but I did not know that then)!
Could I dive into the world of contemporary romance, when all I had read up to that point was historical?
Well, I took a chance and I truly credit this book for starting my OBSESSION with contemporary romance that feature ALPHA-MALES!!!
Reread:Still as amazing.No words to describe how much i loved this book.It was AMAZING.#EPIC
Le doy 3 porque Judith se ha montado un culebrón que en la tele daría para 400 capítulos, pero ya se me ha hecho cuesta arriba al final. Matt no ha sido lo que yo esperaba, pero le reconozco a la autora que sea el germen de otros tipos por el estilo. Eso sí: el segundo de esta serie que me espere sentada...
UPDATED REVIEWAs I have already mentioned below that this book or rather this story or more better Matt and Merr never cease to surprise me with their depth of affection for one another.Last year when I had read and review, I was miffed with Lisa for sleeping with Parker.
What true love can do to people...Review while reading..I am reading this book after a year now and this story never fails to touch my heart...
