https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40289.The_Abyss
This book was an incredible work of science fiction.
A friend and I were big fans of James Cameron's "The Terminator" and "Aliens," so when we heard he had a new movie coming out, we were pretty excited.
The Abyss was yet another science fiction story that inspired me into my field of study.I've never felt like James Cameron got the credit he deserved for this movie, though the ending for the theatrical version was pretty lame.
But I felt like the motivations of the characters and the aliens were explained much better in the book than in the movie.
Blew me out of the water (pun intended).
I saw the movie, "The Abyss" and consider it to be excellent.
Better by far than any other scifi/adventure movie made after 1930.
When I heard that Orson Scott Card had made a novel based off the movie, I was sorely disappointed.
No novel from show ever works.
Movies should be made from nothing larger than a novelette in my opinion.
So why was Card making substandard work?Then I read it.I apologize most sincerely, Mr. Card, for ever having doubted you.
Nothing is added that isn't part of the movie, but oiy!
ARGH I just can't describe it!I urge you, please see the movie then read the book.
This was a really great book. If you liked the movie you'll LOVE the book. So many times in science fiction there isn't a lot of characterization.........not with this book. You know these characters and you can relate to them in some way.
Really entertaining! And that is coming from a reader that does not particularly care for any story bubbling up from the briny depths. I am a fan of dry land formats. This book, however, combines interesting characters (both human and not-so-much) with excellent and exciting interactions between each other. Edge of your seat suspense taking place at frequent intervals and an exceptionally surprising and unexpected otherworldly ending make this one of my absolute favorites - even with all the moisture content! Would recommend this to all.
I'm partial to Orson Scott Card, novels about the ocean, and intelligent female leads (probably not in that order) Needless to say…I LOVE this book. I read it twice in one year. It is gripping and freaky and un-put-downable.
I can watch the movie again and again, and can read the novella again and again. It is spectacular, and contains more background than the movie did. One of my favorites, actually.
I've been a fan of the movie for years and it holds some special nostalgia for me.
I was not a huge fan of the voice that narrated from this omniscient perspective.
I appreciated that this wasn't an overly technical book and it could have been.Oddly enough, following this story in novel form makes it easier to realize that the story is kind of....strange.
I can also finally see, upon finishing the novel, why this omniscient voice was present.
It makes sense now, but I still don't quite think it was an effective voice.All in all, enjoyable and unique in its construction.
It was definitely an interesting novel.
The book is a weird hybrid of a novelization and like character backstory for the actors playing said roles.
I'm so great." Which that's fine, I don't mind women characters who are arrogant but I think what sucks is that there aren't any other women in this book to counteract the arrogance.
Also the plot of the book is really odd because it's at first set up as the political thriller and then all of a sudden aliens.Do I hate the book?
Sure.Three stars for now, let's see where it goes.So i finished the book and i skimmed the last 2 chapters because i did not care at all.
I never imagined a novelization could be so good!
But what amazed me the most was the way the author gave life to the builders.
So often when reading fantasy or sci-fi the author is never able to make the aliens familiar.
They remain alien throughout the novel and we the reader never become one with them.
It was a smooth transition and I only stumbled through it once.Truly amazed at the authors abilities.
The author took great care to explain, mostly in payments terms, the whys and how's of existing that far beneath the ocean.And who was narrator?
One of my favorite movies from childhood is also a fantastic book.
But more importantly, the ending feels more in sync with the rest of the book.
Personally, I love the extended directors cut of the film but I also understand people's criticisms that the final act of the film is a bit too radical of a left turn away from the first two hours.
In the book, the Builders are much more present and what happens at the end is more understandable within the context of the book.
All around, fantastic and entertaining to read.
Best novelization ever! So much more character development and pov's from the creatures in the abyss which I thought was awesome to see. The first three chapters (no major spoilers) are just backstories from Bud, Lindsey and Coffey. I really enjoyed it. Every the abyss fan should read it and novelization fans too!-Roger
This book adds so much to the movie. I recommend reading James Cameron's "Afterword" at the end of the book before reading it.
Both the book and the movie were great
We witness as they discover the unexpected truth about the incident.This book by Orson Scott Card was based on the screenplay for the Cameron movie and partly rewritten after he saw a nearly finished version of the movie.
James Cameron and Orson Scott Card apparently have different opinions as to it being called a novelization or not.
Still, they both hoped it can be read without needing to know the movie and experienced by the reader as a proper novel.Personally I think the book does work without knowing the movie.
And I guess for fans of the movie this book is a lot of fun.Though I don’t think a novelization is fun for the writer.
If I'd seen the film, reading the novelisation was like having it play again in especially vivid detail.
But Card has fleshed all this out, and given them a much more prominent role influencing the course of events – the kinds of serendipities that, as moviegoers, we'd just put down to narrative convenience.What I found especially clever about this device is that it actually provides a diegetic reason for that tendency in novelisations to psychoanalyse everything.
And I liked that the narrator is revealed actually to be one of the characters, who has been gifted the aliens' power, knows what every character has felt, and has hence been empowered to tell the story we've just read.
I have to stop getting drawn in to nostalgic reads - seriously I have nothing but praise for this book (recent controversies aside).
The book pretty much follows the same story line as the film - something that can often disappoint but not with this book.
it pretty much follows the same story as the film one which I enjoy watching and re-watching (ok I can gush on and on about the film since many of the effects were done by ILM one of the masters of the craft, ok stop its about the book).
Still I will be reading it again just you watch.
Eh. This book was okay in some ways, and occasionally you could see a glimmer of OSC genius poking through, but there were two major flaws for me: A) it was a bit cliche, which I guess isn't really OSC's fault since the novel is based on a screenplay by James Cameron, who is talented in some ways but not even on the same level creatively as OSC, but...
Aliens down at the very bottom of the sea who are human enough to have eyes and hands and who give a crap about humans?
One of best novelizations you will ever read. But to call it a novelization would be a dis-service. It is a brilliant epic science fiction novel by a master writer in top form. It pulls off the seemingly impossible and manages to take the vision of one of the most gifted cinematic storytellers of all time and translate it to the novel form.
Always loved the movie, but the book added so much more depth to it. The book was written while the movie was being filmed, so when you're reading it, you can picture every scene almost perfectly, but what Orson Scott Card did was add so much depth to the characters that you've now got additional into their motivations.
This book is a good read. As I remember, it was not violent and didn't have profanity. It was a page turner.
Couldn't finnish it. The beginning is good with the stories of the main characters, but then the aliens make no interaction with the story. You can either tell me a story about people in a submarine and their psycology, or tell me a alien story, but don't just put aliens in the ocean and expect that I'll swallow 100 pages of submarine nonsense waiting for those aliens to do something. It's just mean. (droped it in page 212, 64%)
Entertaining read. I haven't seen the film yet, but I've heard good things. It was hard for me to completely buy into it after 2001: Space Odyssey. Nevertheless, a good book for anyone who likes a good science fiction and/or is interested in deep sea shenanigans.
This was a novelization of the film by James Cameron - the film was awesome and this really fleshed it out - being written by one of the premiere minds of science-fiction/fantasy definitely made it noteworthy. It was well-written, engaging, and awesome the way the movie was.
One of my favorite book and movie combos ever.
The Abyss by Orson Scott Card is about a submarine that is stuck deep below the ocean to detonate a bomb.
Orson Scott Card is one of my favorite authors because of how amazing his writing is.
In the middle of the story, Lindsey took a picture of underwater flying objects that go as fast as light.
Lindsey took a picture of this object but gets a blurry picture that can't be broken down.
Since there is a storm above and could get attacked by the objects, the crew stays down underwater.
(view spoiler)[ It turns out that Card actually wrote a chunk of the book that was discarded and rewritten when he started watching the making of the movie itself and watching the actors at work on the set.
(hide spoiler)]I liked how Cameron highly praised Card's word and called it a 'novel' and not just a 'novelization.' I thought that was pretty high praise, considering how far short many novelizations of movies and movie scripts fall short of the actual work.The book does go a bit past the movie in terms of extrapolating past the ending.
My favorite example of this is when Coffey is going down into the abyss, and we read his thoughts of hatred toward his mother and regret for what he is doing.There's a really interesting start to this book.
And then there's Coffey, who is ten times more interesting here than he is in the movie.
He just figures that he was born for that moment, and he won't need his penis if it gets chopped off.Here's yet another great thing about this book: Card takes us into the minds of the builders.
a book based on the movie screenplay and dailies much like 2001.Card writes exposition rather than demonstration here.
at the beginning, it’s a little like reading through an expanded character list of a play complete with character bios.
this is a glorified screenplay, all set direction embellished and expounded into full sentences and complete concepts.i do wish Mr. Card would have left the intentions of the aliens ambiguous until the end as they did in the movie.
i recommend it as a read-along to the movie- that is, watch the movie FIRST and then read the book.

