https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/323768.Sanctorum_Communio
I wrote in my review of Bonhoeffer's Ethics that it would probably take another reading to be able to fully grasp what he was trying to say in the book.
The same is true for Sanctorum Communio but instead of needing one reread, I think it might take two or three.
It's a challenging book to be sure, especially in its early chapters, but it's also more than worth it.
Bonhoeffer writes with a high ecclesiology, something that many Christians today lack.
For a book that's 80+ years old, it's shocking how relevant this is.
For any Christian who is asking why church matters, Bonhoeffer's book provides essential answers.

Only those who take the claim of the church seriously – not relativizing it in relation to other similar claims of their own rationality, but viewing it from the standpoint of the gospel – can possibly glimpse something of its true nature.” It is this underlying concept of community and how it shapes the believers role within the church and society as a whole for which Bonhoeffer spend this work unpacking.I truly appreciated the extent to which Bonhoeffer expressed the need to understand the church within the confines of community and relationship.
An absolutely brilliant treatment on the church. Bonhoeffer's conceptions of the I-You relationship, vicarious representative action, Christ existing as church-community, and ethical personhood presented and outlined here are essential to understand his later work. This is the architecture on which Bonhoeffer builds for the rest of his life.
If you loved Life Together, you'll appreciate Bonhoeffer's foundational work, Sanctorum Communio.Lots of incredible insights into the social nature of the Church that I need to work through with a fine-tooth comb.
It reads exactly like you’d expect a dissertation from 1920’s Germany to read (i.e. scrupulous, dense), but an important work in the Bonhoeffer corpus nonetheless. In some respects, this work is the seedbed for Discipleship and Life Together.
An astounding piece of scholarship, Bonhoeffer's dissertation, which he wrote at the age of 21, explains how you get from theories focusing on the individual to theories focusing on communities.
The church is also different because of the presence and operation of the Holy Spirit, which is especially important in drawing the line between Protestantism and the "canonization of the past" of the Roman Catholic Church.
The church did not force people to become equal but required them to form a unity in diversity.The prose tends to get serpentine especially at the beginning of the work, but Bonhoeffer's argument is solid enough to get us to the conclusion without too much trouble.
I read this because I was told Bonhoeffer was a great theologian, but at this point he was just a kid with a dregree, trying to find philosophical excuses for lutheran ortodoxy.I read this because I was told it was about community, but it turned out to be about churches. You will get the difference when Bonhoeffer praises big congregations where nobody knows each other as the greatest expression of Agape.It is a good thesis, but unremarkable.
If you want to understand the sociology of church and your role in such, this is excellent! I love how eloquently Bonhoeffer explains Christ is the Church. This is Bonhoeffer's first writings, difficult to digest, but worth every minute. The man was brilliant!
This book is excellent, and was a turning point for me when I was going through a crisis of my own. It's not an easy read, and no one should be expecting it to entertain. One of my favorites of all time.
This book is excellent, though a very tough read. It is amazing how well written it is, especially since Bonhoeffer was in his early 20s when writing it. If you find yourself asking, 'Why does church matter?," I invite you to read this publication.
"Bonhoeffer begins his “theological study of the sociology of the church” by constructing an anthropology and then articulating what a church is sociologically" ?? How did I miss this when reading for my thesis?
a study of the human person, the church, evil, ethics and the Holy Spirit's work through humans in the real world
I'll have to read it at least twice more before I understand it. Then perhaps I'll be able to say what I learned from it!
wonderful!!! A must read........a different perspective for us brits and Americans
Boy. This was a heady read.
The language he puts to articulating an ecclesiology of the church being the physical manifestation of Christ on earth is breath taking.
The dichotomy of God judging us as distinct individuals but yet are a part of a collective entity as church-community was definitely a mind bender, but so good.
But above all, my favorite of Bonhoeffer’s thoughts in this foundational work is how God’s Holy Spirit strictly works through the Church.
In a world today that thinks they can be a Christian and not be a part of the Church, Bonhoeffer’s words ring truer than ever.
A great but difficult read. Bonohoeffer, tries to give a concept of the Church using some social philosophy and social theory. Unlike some theologians these disciplines don't dictate the project it is truly theological at its roots. This is an amazing book and if you like Bonhoeffer's more popular stuff this is a must read. This and his Act and Being, and his Christology are the foundation of his thought. A much neglect thought if you ask me.
Best treatment of DB’s philosophical foundation to everything that comes after. A must-read (and likely re-read) for anyone who truly wants to understand him.
