https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129877.The_Guide
First book of 2014.Narayan's The Guide is a good story about a man who is a tourist guide who does his absolute best to please his customers honestly or dishonestly, as is the nature of tourist guides everywhere.
I don't want to spoil the story by writing out the plot but eventually, from the absolute depths a man can sink to, he rises on the back of being thought a holy man.
Lucky for him, he isn't believed and the superstitious locals continue to treat him as a guru.
Or maybe he has become a guru.
The novel's beauty is its ability to show you the traditional Indian way of storytelling that is not really different from the not-too-old stories here in the Philippines.
and when the rain finally comes, they all dance merrily.In the middle of the story is a flashback to Raju's life prior to being incarcerated.
It is one of the highest expression of artistry so while reading the book, I could emphatise with Rosie whose passion is dancing yet her husband does not appreciate him.
So, in Rosie's eyes, Marco and not Raju, is still her husband.The use of shifting timeline as the scenes are presented back and forth makes up for the simple story.
Raju, the central character in this novel, is a guide in several respects: a tourist guide, a guide to his lover's new career as a dancer, a guide to the inmates in the prison where he serves, and finally, and most significantly, a spiritual guide.
Soon villagers come, somewhat mysteriously, to regard him as a saint, and Raju inadvertently is caught up in a new act, one which is sometimes quite funny and yet may (or may not) ultimately lead him to become precisely the holy man the worshippers think he is.

it has truly been described as a 'pensive comedy' - this is the story of Raju, an ordinary middle class man in South India, who vicariously rose to the height of fame, had a plunging fall, then again rose up like the phoenix to become a swamiji, a demi-god.
More than Raju, I sympathize with Rosy, the dreamy eyed girl, whose only passion was dance, for which she had to suffer.
Her husband left her, she took up with Raju, but then Raju soon became somewhat like a mercenary feeding upon her income.
I would have loved to hear the story from Rosy's view point too.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b06l36xyDescription: Raju's first stop after his release from prison is the barber's shop. Then he decides to take refuge in an abandoned temple. Raju used to be India's most corrupt tourist guide - but now a peasant mistakes him for a holy man. Gradually, he begins to play the part. It is written on the brow of someThat they shall never be left in peace Raju seems to be somewhat Zelig in nature, becoming anything at a pitch of a hat.His Holy Man routine becomes e
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b06l36xyDescription: Raju's first stop after his release from prison is the barber's shop. Then he decides to take refuge in an abandoned temple. Raju used to be India's most corrupt tourist guide - but now a peasant mistakes him for a holy man. Gradually, he begins to play the part.
  It is written on the brow of someThat they shall never be left in peace
Raju seems to be somewhat Zelig in nature, becoming anything at a pitch of a hat.His Holy Man routine becomes ever believable.
From life on the earth to the Karmic theories of purgatory; from real life details to the world of Gods; from sin to atonement...
this book, The Guide, by R K Narayan will take you to new dimensions of readership.
Perhaps one of the greatest novels Indian authors writing in English have produced, this book is a classic in the sense it's always there.
everything about the novel is perfect and you get this masterpiece by Narayan.
Still the most loved novel in India, if I may say so, it will always be there as a reminder that once Indian authors could also touch the heights of writing!
The landscape of the film has nothing to do with Narayan's 'Malgudi, he could not have imagined giving Rosie the sort of freedom she attains in the film.
Towards, the end many people visit him, they want to see the 'Sadhu' doing fasting and praying for them.The book ends on an ambiguous note; Narayan does not tell us if Raju lives or dies, or if at last it rains and the draught comes to an end.
My first book of R.K.Narayan.Though the book ended ambiguously, I loved the transformation of Raju throughout. I wanted to read it before watching the movie. I have read that R.K.Narayan disliked the movie adaptation, which made me more curious to read this book.
Raju, the main character, begins the book as an unethical, opportunistic, but essentially likable fellow; as the story goes on he transforms first into a money-grubbing, misogynistic, self-serving asshole, and then into some semblance of a holy man.
I don't have a problem with characters undergoing changes, but none of these changes felt organic to Raju's development, and they foiled my attempts to connect with the book on an emotional level.
I will say, however, that the final image of Raju collapsing while he feels the river rising around his legs is poignant, enduring, and powerfully drawn.
I think through Raju , Mr. Narayan has painted the very basic of human psyche i.e. how far can a human go to what he wants and what changes occurred in him while getting what he wants .
But in the novel Rosie is a common woman desperate to create her identity but bound by notions and hypocrisy of the society .
In short it can be said that Raju and Rosie are each other's want and the story is about what they do for what they want .
A decent book. A bit different from the movie, especially the individual characteristics but I liked it nonetheless. An easy to read and easy to forget kind of a book. I think the movie was a shade better. 3.5 stars.
Basically, he's squatting, but a local person named Velan comes to ask Raju to help him solve a problem with his willful daughter.
Raju is left then with the choice of simply leaving in the night or going through with the fast.I admit that I found the frame story about Raju's stint as a faux-swami far more fascinating than the story of his life -- until he became involved with Rosie.
His mother calls her the serpent-woman, but Narayan's description of Rosie's serpent dance is one of the most intense and visual descriptions I have ever read.
This is a very moving story of greed, illicit relationship, chasing you dreams, destiny taking you to unimaginable, power of faith, superstition, luck and finally divinity.My first introduction to RK Narayan was through TV serials 'Swami' and 'Malgudi days'.
The stories of Malgudi days were a bit mature and found them boring at that time.
The book traces the story of a small boy raju who is poor and doesn't have father.
He becomes a famous Raju guide.
So when you will read the novel whenever you will read Raju and Rosie, you will imagine Devanad and Waheeda Rehman.
Actually, weaves would be a better word instead of writes, because the book is actually a tapestary of Raju's life and that of other major and minor characters, Velan, Rosie, Marco (whose temperament I found close to mine!), Gaffur, Rahu's mother and uncle interwoven with life in a small town and villages in southern India.
Actually India is as much a character in this story as the main protagonists, because i don't think it would have taken place anywhere else in world.
The rise and fall of a man, love and 'unlove', marriage and infidelity, a woman's place in a patriarchal society, a conman and his final redemption (maybe?)- there are so many lenses that this story could be viewed from, understood and appreciated.
I didn't really put much thought into what kind of story this would be, but now that I have completed it, let me just say it went beyond my expectations.
The narration of the past is told in relevance to what is happening in the present, and written in a consistent manner too, making it easy for readers to follow.I think the best thing about 'The Guide' is the character development and how it is told.
There are instances when you feel sorry for the main character, and at other times you feel that he deserves to be punished.
It's a story which leaves readers thoughtful.
The writing is quite spare and there is little description of the backdrop of the novel, apart from what is necessary.The Guide is about Raju, who tells his story in the present and past.
Interspersed is the story of Raju's past, his childhood, his time as a tourist guide.
The end is left open; has Raju really become a holy man as he fasts for rain.There is a strong comedic element in the book, but it is also a fable.
He is certainly easy to read, but the end of the novel is enigmatic; The Guide is certainly thought provoking.
'The Guide' is the story of transformation of the protagonist, Raju from a simple tour guide to a great spiritual guide.
Starting as a tourist guide in the small village of Malgudi, Raju more often known as Railway Raju, leads a very simple life with his widowed mother.
He succeeds in fulfilling Rosie's dreams, and his own too, but the greed to make more money wouldn't cease.
He ends up in jail for forgery, which is when Rosie makes an exit from his life.
Raju starts enjoying the role and attention.
I thought I would just say "guys, read and make your own judgement"...but thought better of it:) Typical RKN's writing: decent, simplistic, with subtle humor.
This is kind of the most respected of his novels.
On that score, it left me a little disappointed.
I actually didn't get the point of the novel.
Probably the point he was making is there is no point :) Life has to be lived and you can't do nothing about most things.
I actually wished that I had read it during the days I was reading RKN i.e. more than a decade back.
Actual rating: 3.5 stars
The book feels like it was written by Joseph Conrad, who I am a big fan of.
All that was compensated for by the author's wit and charming spirit and sense of humor; I mean, this is a lively book and it is fun for me to read and I can read it over and over again and find it amusing.
The trouble is, English is my second language and I do care about reading books in modern style so that I absorb all that and it comes in my own writing; otherwise, I end up sounding like the literature of the Elizabethan as well as the Victorian period.
great take in a short novel by a master. i met r.k. narayan few years prior to his death. but he wanted to talk about life not books. i still cherish the meeting and the book
For the time at which this was written, I am amazed at how truly modern the author’s female lead is.Of course, reading The Guide nearly 6 decades and especially one movie later, does have its effects.
Worse still is how the movie complete takes away the essence of Rosie, Raju and Marco’s characters by ascribing the point of change in their dynamics to something that makes their choices, “acceptable” Nevertheless, there is a reason some works and some authors have the place they do.
K. Narayan both justly revel in their place amongst the best that has come from Indian fiction
This possibly has deep cord with R.K. Narayan as possible life choice he might have thought a lot about.Rosie's character reminds me of the film "Bhumika" where woman's life is about playing roles from one stage to another and eventually in the end accepts her circumstances and begins to live on her terms.I believe Raju lived a life of content and reflection no matter whereever he was, either as child playing on railway construction site or studying in school, or running a shop in railway station, or becoming railway raju as guide and living with full potential.
I have read 'Malgudi days' by R.K. Narayan before and I always liked his style of writing and his unique quality of putting most complex of emotions in simplest and concise manner .
Like his other works, Guide also jumps around Indian culture, beliefs, socioeconomic structure, and human nature, which is not particular to any country or group of people.
When you will read the book you will understand the weight it's title holds.
Narayan touches and explores many nukes and corners of Indian culture, society and last but not the least mysticism .
Some may like Raju, some may not.
Some may like Rosie, some may not.
Some may like Marco, some may not.
My review:It's a self-deprecatory repentant narrative by Raju as told to Velan after he's released from prison (earlier convicted for forgery).
Am trying to forget the first person narrative by Raju and look at the story from the other characters' perspective and trying to judge Raju.
A similar study of the other characters may need one more read and more time.
And the last line of the novel leaves everything open for discussion: (view spoiler)[when his legs give away, does it mean he falls down dead?
(hide spoiler)]
It was only when I felt the urgency to seat for my exam I began to read this novel without having any inherent interest and prior acquaintance with RK Narayan's style or narrative technique .
As I proceeded, I found Raju more of a typical rural Indian boy ,playing and cavorting around with gaily spirit , and less of a man who knows only to beguile everyone with acute eloquence and amicable manner.
A good entertainment it was.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Railway Raju is famous for helping tourists above and beyond the call of duty - until Rosie arrives. Stars Nitin Ganatra.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b06l36xy
A timeless classic!!!
The best part of reading this book was the faces behind the characters, it was fortunately so good, the story, the characterization, location (Malgudi), locales, people and their own stories, the book was totaly fun to an extent and then it all derails and derails big time.
Although its a very short book hardly 200 pages but once the story is set, the mood is made unfortunately it just drags mid ways onward and simply refuses to reach the abrupt ending.
It was a quick and an engaging read.
I'd read this first when I was a lot younger, and I remember not understanding most of it.
I had thought of Raju as a fool, Rosie as a manipulative and an equally gullible woman, 'Marco' as an extremely harsh man.While not most of these views have changed, I have to acknowledge that these characters cannot be put into boxes this way.
I wonder if they censored the extra-marital aspect of Rosie's and Raju's relationship in the movie, given the time it had been made in.
