https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/921651.Just_Go_to_Bed
Going to best is one of the toughest tasks. The Little Critter seems to agree here. The illustrations are eye-catching and dialog, humorous.
Oh Mercer Mayer, your "Little Critter" books made my childhood so much more enjoyable.
Fantastic illustrations and dialogs !
Nostalgia!
Dad says..."It's time for the cowboy to come inside and get ready for bed."Premise/plot: Will Little Critter go to bed willingly?!
I grew up on Little Critter books.
I'm not sure if I love Little Critter because I grew up with him, or if regardless of when I met him I would see myself.
Dad says..."This giant robot has captured the space cadet and is going to put him in the bathtub right now." I'm a sea monster attacking a ship.
Dad says, "It's time for the sea monster to have a snack." I'm a zookeeper feeding my hungry animals.
Dad says..."Feeding time is over.
My cousin thought it was funny, because the father played along, until the point where the dad got upset.The book is about a little boy who has a vivid imagination and pretends to be different characters.
He does get mad at the end of the night when the little critter will not stay in his bed and go to sleep.The story takes place in the present time.
The father tried all night to get his son to go to bed.
The father redirected the boy a few times and tried to be nice, by playing in his games.
Mercer Mayer takes us on an imaginative journey as Little Critter prepares for a good night's rest.
Bed time is one of the hardest times for kids, and this book offers an opportunity for young readers to relate.
From make believe of being a cowboy lassoing up cows to becoming a sea monster attacking a ship (during bath time), this little guy uses imaginative optimism all throughout.
Dad is ever so patient and guides Little Critter through each step of "preparing for bed." By the last page of the book, Little Critter's imagination made him become a bunny, a tired little bunny, who falls asleep.
This is a great book for early readers!
Just Go to Bed (little critter) by Mercer Mayer is in the genre of fantasy.
The book is about a little who doesn't want to go to bed when his father tells him to.
He wants to round up cows and stop the enemy tank in war.
The books shows him outside his house playing and in his room.
The whole time, his dad keeps saying "come take a bath." And "time for bed." The little critter eventually is tired and gives in to going to bed.
I love this book and it is excellent to read to children before bed time.
another Little Critters favorite. I have pondered a small tattoo of the critter on the cover ..just the way he is in those pajamas. I'm pretty sure I had similar pj's once when I was little. LOVE these books.
I love Mercer Mayer's books; they really focus on the child's feelings about certain things that they like/dislike, such as, in this case, going to bed. I love the illustrations, and the colours just popped-out at me as I was turning the pages. It seemed as though the little ones enjoyed it as well, with them looking at the pages quickly, even though they may not have understood the true meaning. I liked how these books tend to have a meaning, with the secondary characters making important appearances throughout the book.
Who didn't love the little critters book series growing up?
I had tons of these books and Just go to Bed is a stand out for sure.
Because of course like Max I always wanted to stay up.
I remember getting these from book fares at school and loved getting each new book.
(As a side note I always loved the way the Scholastic book fliers/magazines smelled too, is that just me?) This title was a close favorite of mine and I wish I still had a copy of it now....
sad to say.Well I'm glad Max is still getting the love he deserves.
This story was very repetitive and did not really have a "meaning" behind it. I feel like anywhere in the story could have been the beginning. At the end, there was no way for me to predict how it was going to end. I would probably have this in my classroom library, but would not chose it as a read aloud book.
I love Little Critter, and it appears my son does too. The quick language, busy pages, and great concepts keep him entertained and give me back-up on manners, language, chores, etc. We like this one specifically because bedtime is hard some nights. On those nights, we read this book so he knows that everyone does the same things he does, and that he must listen and go to sleep.
Just Go to Bed, of the popular Little Critter series, is about a little critter boy who wants to play all throughout his bedtime.
The story relates to I Hate to go to Bed, in that it addresses the difficulties children have with bedtime.
Mayer does a great job of displaying the second wind, per say, that children often get before bedtime.
This book is a great tool for parents, who want their children to wind down before bed or nap time.Mayer, Mercer.
Just Go to Bed. New York, NY: Random House Books for Young Readers.
LC keeps playing different things during the course of preparing for bed. Finally his father loses patience and says "just go to bed"- a situation we all grin at because we've all been there in one form or the other.
Very Good, a stubborn child at bedtime might want to read this book. Although a baby, will tell you just Give Me Milk!!https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9...https://www.goodreads.com/author/show...
Very cute story. Totally loved it!!!
Genre: Modern FantasyGrade Level: preKThis children's fantasy is a cute little book. I wouldn't use this in my classroom because I think it is more of a bedtime story for 3 year olds+ but it was a cute easy read that I think kids would love. I do wish the book would have been a little longer or had a different ending because I think it was a little sudden.
12/2/18kdg-2nd gradeModern FantasyA predicament every child... and adult can relate to! Super fun read with silly images of how a little critter tries to get out of going to bed!
Genre: Children's Picture Book - Fiction
Another cute story.
GRL: JDRA: 16
Another one of my favorites from the Little Critter series! It shows a child's imagination and unwillingness to go to bed.
This is my 3 year old nephew favorite book n he has to hear it every night
Kiddo loves this one. Cute story.
This is just such an enjoyable story showing two points of views, a child's creativity and a parents work at trying to get an ordinary night time routine done. But it's presented in such a fun way. I think sometimes you just want to scream go to bed, but the dad does a good job using what the child is doing to redirect him to the activity he wants him to do.
I enjoy this series
Genre: Modern Fantasy Grade:prek-kThis book might be my favorite of the Little Critter series it has a huge imagination and funny little comebacks from the dad. This book made me laugh extremely loud and I read it a lot and no matter how many times i reread it i was still dying of laughter.
A little critter wants to continue playing and using his imagination to create different personas all while the dad is continuing to try to get him ready for bed.
But, each time he changes his persona, his dad is giving him the next step that's needed for him to get ready to go to bed.
Afterwards discuss why we need to go to bed when told to.
It is a book that the children will love having read to them, and one to which both child and parent alike can relate.
Any child can find numerous and fascinating ways to entertain themselves at bedtime to distract their parents from the task at hand, and buy some time.
Children will delight, as the tale unfolds, and Critter finds new and entertaining ways and reasons to avoid bedtime and its necessities.
Yet take heart parents!
This adorable little person will delight and entertain you as well.
