https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47521.Archer_s_Goon
DWJ's sixteenth published book, Archer's Goon represents, with Howl's Moving Castle, the peak of the humorous writing that characterizes much of her 1980s period.
Not only do we have the seven siblings who "farm" Howard's town, we also have Howard's family, their live-in student Fifi, and Shine's bully boy Ginger Hind, and all of them have well-developed, interesting, but above all unique personalities.
Of them all, it's Howard whose character is the least well developed (or interesting) and it turns out that even that has a reason.But what I'm truly impressed with here is the way the plot unfolds, starting with the Goon in Howard's kitchen and proceeding through the introductions of the seven siblings.
Umesto uvoda sledeće: negde na trećini knjige palo mi je na pamet da proverim kako je prevođen naslov romana i da li bi bilo adekvatno rešenje "Arčerov siledžija" ili ima neko bolje.
Čitav drugi, treći i četvrti nivo su, međutim, fantastika u stilu Dajane Vin Džouns, što će reći atipična i komplikovana za praćenje i urnebesno duhovita i istovremeno rovari po nekim solidno ozbiljnim problemima identiteta i porodične dinamike i i i.
Sam početak romana, prvih recimo pet-šest strana (jer sve dalje od toga zalazi u teritoriju spojlera) deluje kao Harold Pinter za decu.
Trinaestogodišnji junak dolazi kući iz škole i u kuhinji zatiče osobu koja se predstavlja kao "Arčerov siledžija".
Very pleased to finally share one of my favorites with my kids!
As a writer, the idea of beating writers' block by turning in two thousand words about anything is pleasing and reassuring to me.
As a parent, seeing the way the parents deal with their children and the chaos around them is also pleasing and reassuring, and I had forgotten how much sly humor there is about the parents.
And it holds up well for children, too.
My kids loved it, though (since we read it aloud over a month's time) I did have to stop occasionally and remind them what had been happening and etc.
Writing can take over the world.When even random daydreams are important signifiers you know you are in the grip of a superbly plotted extravaganzer.
There is so much to admire here, and a huge cast of characters, each of whom is important, is distinctive and memorable, despite only appearing briefly in person.
misterije koja traje od samog početka i koja je toliko misteriozna da ne znaš ni šta je to što treba da otkriješ2.
razrešenja misterije od koga ti se zavrti u glavi, šta god da očekuješ3.
likova koji su svi dobri i užasni i sve u isto vreme, kao i svi ljudi na svetu3a.
starijeg brata koji kad ga sestra zamoli da se pobije sa njenim školskim drugaricama, to i uradi i ošine ih školskom torbom bez milosti.
Ja sam kao mala bila žešće razočarana kad neko od moje starije rodbine nije hteo da sažeže moje neprijatelje, a niko nikad nije hteo.
I also loved reading it a second time because this time I actually understood what was going on, after all those mindbending plot-twists in the first reading.
A.k.a. IT WAS EVEN BETTER THE SECOND TIME AND I DIDN'T THINK THAT WAS POSSIBLE.THIS IS THE BEST AND UTTERLY BRILLIANT AND MIND-BLOWINGLY UNIQUE AND I LOVE ALL THE CHARACTERS AND I ADORE IT AND IT'S PERFECT.THAT IS ALL.First read: November 10, 2015:This was fabulous and mind-boggling and I adored it.
O_O Basically it broke my brain, mixed impossible things together extraordinarily well, had mind-blowing plot twists (SERIOUS.
Let me flail.
Ahhh! Another DWJ book. I've owned this one for a while, sort of keeping it around as something extra special to anticipate. And all that anticipation was rewarded: This story is delightful. Now I want to read it again so I can better appreciate its complexity!Other reviewers have explained its brilliance--I won't try to repeat or compete.Just . . . read it and enjoy!
Sometimes it's a bit too self-aware, particularly when Quentin is griping: "Well, [writer's block is] a terrible condition," Quentin said plaintively.
"It's like when they tell me in school, 'Make a drawing of the ancient Britons,' and I can't because I'm not in a drawing mood."Even when it feels too self-aware, the joke is expanded on, or compounded, in a way that makes it very clear from where Hilary McKay inherited some of her style.
It is utterly unpredictable.When I finally got old enough to get a job, and earn money, and when I could afford to buy books (oh those heady days when books were bought one at a time with cash, from a neighborhood bookstore, and Amazon was only a dream), this is one of the ones I bought, I loved it enough to spend $6 out of a weekly salary of about $50, in order to actually OWN it.And maybe that's the most meaningful thing you can say about a book.
Имаме преведен само „Подвижният замък на Хоул” и то най-вероятно само заради прекрасната анимация на Миазаки.Джоунс има невероятното умение да слива магичното и всекидневното, футуристичното и фантазията.
В последствие се оказва, че това са две хиляди думи, които Куентин изпраща и той не знае къде, четири пъти в годината.
Всички те смятат, че някой от тях седмината задържа останалите благодарение на думите на Куентин, но не знаят кой и как.
Докато Хауърд разследва случая и се запознава с магьосниците, баща му е подложен под натиск поне от трима от тях.
Archer's Goon is a mysterious large man who shows up one day in Howard Sykes's kitchen, refusing to leave until Howard's father Quentin delivers the two thousand words he owes.
Jones's plots are always mysterious, and I think Archer's Goon is up there with her most bizarre.
But she does a wonderful job keeping the mystery intriguing right up through the end of the book, as Howard and his sister Awful try desperately to figure out what's going on before the seven siblings drive them all to distraction or worse.
I got this book from the library. The best part was that on the last page, someone had written neatly in pencil: "this book comes with free spider." A spider was evenly pressed between the pages. Seriously, this was the best part of the whole book.
Archer sent the Goon there to collect 2,000 words from Quentin, something that Archer...and Archer's brothers and sisters...believe is keeping them from ruling the world.
Unfortunately, Quentin refuses to write those words for any of those people--not wanting to help them take over the world--and the wizards begin causing all sorts of problems for the Sykes family very quickly.The pleasure of Jones' books is how the magic is integrated as a natural part of her worlds.
If ever there is a day when I don't love one of Diana Wynne Jones' books, I shall either be ashamed of myself for losing that bit of myself that appreciates her particular humor and writing style, or I'll be disappointed that Mrs. Jones didn't quite live up to the standards of greatness that I've come to expect of her works. As it is, her record still stands, and she's still my favorite author!
One day Howard and his sister Awful (you soon discover just how "awful" Anthea is and the reason for her nickname becomes evident)come home from school to find a huge goon in their kitchen.
He says he was sent by Archer because Howard's dad hasn't turned in his quarterly payment of 2000 words.
Just who Archer is and how 2000 words can be payment for anything turn are the beginning of a quest that take Howard and Awful on an adventure that truly is indescribable.
Again, I felt betrayed.THEN, by the end of the book, she had flipped those reveals so that I loved those characters as much as before.
I've actually read this three or four times, but only recently started tracking my readings through Goodreads, sooooI needed a comfort read in transitioning back from being in the country of my heart - England - to my so-called life in the desert, so I turned to Diana and the book I think is definitely one of my very favorites of her books.
It definitely has elements of all of Wynne's books that I love, but especially the way she incorporates magic, which is matter-of-factly, part of the fabric or our universe.
The first book in which I was introduced to Diana Wynne Jones' seemingly haphazard, confusing, crazy but riveting storylines. It's like an amusement park ride! I actually had to re-read the story around three time to fully understand it, and it was an enjoyment every time!
I know that they will be wonderful and I will love them...
I don't know if it was better than Howl, but that would take a lot.
There's not much that is better than Howl.Things I liked:-The characters.
Hathaway was one of my favorites, as was Shine, which is weird I know but whatever.
I also really liked Howard.
But I'll get to that.What I didn't like:-I just didn't understand the part where Howard was actually Venestrus?
?? -I didn't like Fifi.
we just didn't seem like the kind of people who would get along.-The ending felt a tad bit easy?
I first read this at the age of about 10 or 11, I guess. To this day, when I'm running late and desperately need the bus to come, I say a prayer to Hathaway under my breath.My point is, how good must a story be to implant a polytheistic belief system into the brain of a Catholic child strong enough to last for a quarter of a century?
Howard's ordinary life is turned upside-down when he comes home from school one day to find the Goon sitting in his kitchen.
The Goon claims he's from Archer and wants Howard's father to give him two thousand words.
. .This is probably my favorite Diana Wynne Jones book (tied with Dark Lord of Derkholm).
Howard is trying desperately to figure things out, but he's starting to see where this is going to lead, and it's something he doesn't want to be true, even if it were somehow possible.Overall, this is a great introduction to Diana Wynne Jones if you've never read her before.
Some of my favorite moments in this book have to be when one of the characters is having a realization about their place in the family dynamic, like when Howard thinks to himself about how his mom and dad go about handling his sister Awful in the wrong way.
I also really like towards the end where Howard realizes that despite how much power that they all have, most of the siblings that run the town are actually quite lonely.I love how strong all the different character's personalities are too.
You get very distinct vibes from each of the siblings running the town as well as Howard and his family.
Then there's the other family, seven siblings who run the town, farming things like power and money (Archer), crime (Shine), music and entertainment, police, and so on.
Their paths cross when a good embeds himself in the Sykes home because, he says, Quentin owes Archer 2,000 words.Diana Wynne Jones does lover her families and this does it well.
I don't know, mystical seems the wrong word when it feels so *practical*, but the mystical powers the seven have.
It's very Diana Wynne Jones, in that while there is magic, even when it's an anomaly in a mundane world, it still feels practical, kitchen sinkish.
The Goon says that Howard's dad owes Archer his quarterly payment of 2000 words and the Goon's there to collect.Consider this a more cheerful version of Jones' Eight Days of Luke with a hint of Gaiman's Endless thrown into the mix.
Seven powerful wizards control Howard's town, and he and his family visit each of them, trying to free themselves from their meddling, eavesdropping ways.
I love the way Jones writes.
When she's not creating awesome new word combinations, her writing is crisp and clear and so easy to drink down.
The numerous big plot twists are mind-blowing even for Diana's writing, yet still, it all makes sense and comes down very logically.
Awesome.The characters were a lot of fun – I absolutely adored Awful and Torquil – although perhaps a tad bit distant.
You don't grow to them like you do with some other DWJ characters (I confess to being emotionally over-attached to some of them) but they're nevertheless fun to read.
If literature was a circus, this book would juggle pins on fire whilst walking a tightrope and doing backflips, and succeed at it victoriously.Favourite scene: (view spoiler)[Torquil getting all emotional over making up with Hathaway.
She wanted me to read it so she could have someone to talk to about it.
The book, while not bad, sometimes loses it's drive and I can't really put my finger on why.
When some things are revealed, I would have liked the book to end, but it kept going and I didn't particularly care for the ending.
The story is interesting and worth reading, but it's not a fast-paced story and some might not be able to finish the book because of it.
If you like Jones's other works it's worth checking out if you can find it.
Reading David Langford's collected Critical Mass columns recently, I was startled by how many of the books I loved I'd first encountered on those reviews' original magazine publication.
For some I had always remembered Langford as the vector; for many more, I did not until I encountered again the phrases which had first sold them to me.
And a couple sounded like things I should have read, but I genuinely couldn't remember if I had.
I know Neil Gaiman likes Wynne Jones, and I wonder if these seven might have been at the back of his mind when, a few years later, he created seven Endless siblings of his own?
Howard, his parents and his little sister, Awful (best name ever) live in some sort of magical city ruled by 7 wizards, all siblings, who farm over certain domains.
Howard's dad, for some reason unknown, writes 2000 words of anything, so long as they are original, sends them to a wizard and gets out of paying his taxes.
But all the wizards are after those 2000 words, all for their different purposes, and they're about get petty if they don't get them...There is no contemporary equivalent to this book.
Shine!--and I dare you to not love Awful.
I love Awful.
Never really discovering what is beyond the city, because for this story it absolutely doesn't matter.
Instead, you go deeper and deeper into the city and story, discovering the secrets behind the facade.This book is magic, is self-discovery and also a very quiet, soft family drama.
Good and Evil slowly become more than abstract concepts, they become clear decisions and choices and possibilities.And yes, maybe the end can be predicted in part, if you are not a 10 year old reader.
Because any book that makes my heart clench 15 years later, deserves it.
Another re-read of one of my favourite DWJ books.
As usual, I find it hard to explain why I love her books.
Her books are just a joy.
I do envy people who haven't read them before, because you get all the wonderful writing and language plus the excitement of not knowing what will happen next, where will she take you?
But even when you do know exactly what happens, it's still just a pleasure.

