https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31423133-make-your-bed
The reason it bugs me is that those people spent time and money sitting in a nail salon when they should have been out exercising---walking at the very least.
If you talk to them about it, you will find they think they don't have time for exercise or money for a gym but the one area of their lives they can control is their salon perfect nails.
As for never giving up, the author is certain that all of the people in his training program are sorry that they gave up when they did.
“It is easy to blame your lot in life on some outside force, to stop trying because you believe fate is against you.
It is easy to think that where you were raised, how your parents treated you, or what school you went to is all that determines your future.
Don’t blame it on your misfortune.
McRaven, Make Your Bed: Little Things That Can Change Your Life...And Maybe the WorldThis is a gem of a book.
Rather than go on and on about it, I will share McRaven's lessons with you, but trust me, you will want to read this book to get the full impact of the lessons.
5 well earned stars for this motivational story of Admiral William H.
The book also includes his famous commencement speech, which took place on May 21st, 2014, for the graduating class of the University of Texas at Austin.Admiral McRaven speaks of 10 steps to follow "if you want to change your life or maybe the world."I won't list the steps here however, I will say that I was very 'taken' by this book and the Admirals experiences, as well as those who served with him, to make the USA and the world a safer place.
Straight talk from a former Navy SEALThere are many "self-help" books on the market that contain solid information.
However, General McRaven's Make Your Bed comes across as refreshingly different from those books by well known self-help gurus like Dr. Phil or Tony Robbins mainly because the anecdotes he uses to illustrate his ten key points are gleaned from his experiences as a Navy SEAL.
I read this little book in one sitting and plan to buy copies for my children.
In a nutshell, McRaven says that life is tough, but meeting challenges with discipline, determination, a positive attitude and the support of others will most often lead an individual to a meaningful life that will inspire others.
This is very Team America in parts with some mixed blessings.He means well, but saying at the start "God bless all the american citizens who died in 9/11", but erm what about all the other people who died who weren't american citizens ay?Make your bed dammit!
Fast, fun and motivational read filled with life lessons. Written in a friendly conversational style, the practical advice can be applied by anyone. Highly recommended!
(I use this kindle cover, because the hardback doesn't have the picture, which is the same as this.)This book is made out of the speech the author gave in 2014 - 10 principles learned during Navy SEAL training.
Each principle (including the one found in the book title) is followed by real-life Navy SEAL training story example and how each can be an example for life outside it, too.
It would certainly make good yearly reading, not taking much time from other books.
MAKE YOUR BED is a thoughtful meditation of an American hero’s collective experiences. SUMMARYOn May 17, 2014, Admiral William H. McRaven addressed the graduating class of the University of Texas at Austin on their commencement day taking inspiration from the University slogan “what starts here changes the world,” He shared ten principles he learned during his Navy seal training that helped him overcome challenges not only in his training and long naval career but also throughout his life.“If yo
McRaven addressed the graduating class of the University of Texas at Austin on their commencement day taking inspiration from the University slogan “what starts here changes the world,” He shared ten principles he learned during his Navy seal training that helped him overcome challenges not only in his training and long naval career but also throughout his life.“If you make your bed every morning you will have accomplished your first task of the day.
Making your bed will reinforce the fact that little things in life matter.”REVIEW McRaven recounts many poignant tales from his naval training and military experiences that served as the impetus for his ten principles.
وظایف هر روز را کامل کنید. فردی را بیابید که در زندگی به شما کمک کند. به همه احترام بگذارید. بدانید که زندگی عادل نیست و اغلب با شکست مواجه می شوید ولی اگر ریسک کنید، در سختترین لحظات بایستید، با زورگوها مقابله کنید، دست شکست خورده ها را بگیرید و هرگز و هرگز دست از تلاش نکشید...اگر این کارها را انجام دهید، در این صورت نسل بعدی و نسل های بعد از آن در دنیایی بسیار بهتر از دنیای امروز زندگی خواهند کرد. کاری که در اینجا آغاز شود، در حقیقت دنیا را به جایی بهتر تغییر خواهد داد.
One of those "inspirational" or self-help books that come out from time to time.
I heard the author interviewed, and wanted to read his book.
It's a quick read.
Each chapter has advise for life, starting out with: "Make your bed." Because when you start out accomplishing something at the start of every day, you are more likely to do more.
I had to get the book back to the library or I would have made a succinct list, but other are: "Embrace your failures, because every life has them." "Life isn't fair." "Never, ever give up.
The lessons should not be new to anyone, yet like most of these things, what we know and what we actually do are often completely different things.For instance, chapter three speaks to it’s only the size of your heart that matters.
Though to a large section of people there would be the caveat that the size of your heart matters just a little less then your sexual orientation or how brown your skin is.Chapter seven states we must: stand up to the bullies yet last I checked, the White House is home to possibly one of the bulliest bullies to ever make you do his homework and still get your brown-bagged lunch stepped on while Congress is working hard to take away the health insurance from millions of people.Sigh.
Each chapter highlights a little thing that can make great change in one’s life which then can change the world.
McRaven wrote each chapter with a tone of humility, as evident of how he concisely told personal stories and stories of others to show how the little things in life have the potential to make a huge impact on your life.
I am confident that every person who reads this book will walk away inspired by at least one little thing to make a change in their life and then maybe, quite maybe, the world.
4.25 This book will be perfect for so many students and particularly reluctant readers who need inspiration :) Personally I wish it had a little more meat to it, but it had some great advice and I am sure I will refer back to it again.
Admiral McRaven (awesome name) boils down ten character items he learned in Navy SEAL training, and applies them to everyday life for the uniformed and un-uniformed alike.
He tells stories about his experiences in training and as an active-duty SEAL and an officer to illustrate how these character traits served him during a distinguished career.
One story in particular is almost make-you-stop-reading the book horrific (it involves a torn pelvis), but it makes the point particularly well.Almost all of the traits, divided into ten short chapters, relate back to the core virtues of perseverance, determination, and integrity.
My Rating: 4 Sugar cookiesGreat motivational essay by retired Admiral and Navy SEAL William McRaven.I recommend the audio version that is read by the author, but the book is fine if you prefer the written word. Several life lessons and principals of how to live your life.
I had read portions of Admiral McRaven's University of Texas Commencement speech on the internet, and had known a handful of SEALs in my life.
This is a great little collections of life lessons learned learning and doing one of the most amazing training in the world.Started on audio in the dentist's chair yesterday, finished in hardcover today, as I couldn't put it down.
(Not to mention, it counts as work-reading).Worst-case SRC Spring 2018: Task 5.3 (all letters in BAD ART).
Might fit non-fiction of 15.1#1 but needs pairing to "lie" of 15.1#2.
Ruled out from 30.2 (although "autobiography", this is not "embedded "biography")
This book was inspirational on many levels. Every page contains wisdom and inspiration. Powerful. This is one I’ll be reading again.
This is a short, well presented set of standard life advice, but it is a great example of why some advice is always repeated — because it is correct and largely optimal. McRaven uses examples from his military career, and frequently from SEAL BUD/S training, to illustrate otherwise generic advice. I’m not sure if I prefer the “long” 90 minute version presented in the book or the delivered 14 minute commencement speech which was the inspiration for the book (and included in the book).Audiobook read by the author and seems to be the natural format.
Sure. It's good advice if you want to be SEAL or if you're just graduating college. But there isn't really nuance. Make your bed. Saddam Hussein didn't. Never quit. Really?
If you can't do the little things right, you will never do the big things right.And, if by chance you have a miserable day, you will come home to a bed that is made — that you made — and a made bed gives you encouragement that tomorrow will be better.If you want to change the world, start off by making your bed.Since then I have made my bed regularly.
I kept picturing a black guy like Heimdall as I read this book but apparently he's white.I'm starting to find a pattern in the way Veterans write.
I kept imagining McRaven narrating the book to me like in his University of Texas speech.The book is divided into chapters with a “life lesson” McRaven learned from his days as a Navy SEAL.
Because of Admiral McRaven, I now start every day with a task completed (my bed looks awesome!) and I can safely say this small thing has made a positive difference – so he knows what he’s talking about!“At some point we will all confront a dark moment in life.
I love non-fiction, particularly learning about professions I know nothing about, so it was fascinating to learn a little bit about what the SEAL training involves.As expected, the advice McRaven gives is that kind of "look out for your friends", the "make your bed" of the title (I have to agree with him on that one) - the kind of things we know we should do but sometimes forget to.
There wasn't anything especially groundbreaking in here, but with advice interspersed with stories of his time as a SEAL made it that bit more interesting.
"If you cannot do the simple things right, then you can never do the big things right"simple, short, clear, refreshing and straight forward! No Jargons, No BS :) A highly recommended read for everyone. And, it all starts with making your bed.Thank you General McRaven!
great points. Interesting that the Admiral believes that starting with something -- like making your bed -- helps propel you thru the day into doing other tasks until you can bite off something big and meaningful. I think he is onto something here.
بد نبود.با اینکه خیلی تبلیغاتی و آمریکا پرستانه بود، اما پاراگرافهایی هم پیدا میشد که ارزش تفکر داشته باشند.وقت کردید بخوانید.
“sometimes the simple act of making your bed can give you the lift you need to start your day and provide you the satisfaction to end it right.”A short read, packs with ideas and life lessons
I got this after seeing Admiral McRaven interviewed.After reading it I viewed his commencement speech at The U of Texas,and several other videos and stories.Fabulous man,smart encouraging book.
McRaven (U.S. Navy Retired)Publisher: Grand Central PublishingDate: April 2017Nonfiction, Life Skills, Inspirational, Navy Plus(es): Admiral McRaven (Retired) Gives concrete examples of life skills lessons, Short chapters move the book along at a good pace, Great reading for High School Students and reluctant readersMake Your Bed: Little Things that can Change Your Life … and Maybe the World clearly illustrates, through Admiral McRaven’s actual experiences as a Navy SEAL, how to handle the challenges of getting through life successfully.
Through explicit examples from McRaven’s time with the Navy SEALs, he explains some essential life lessons.
This book is an expanded version from a speech that he gave a few years ago. I thought this was well written and I enjoyed reading it. I wish it would have been longer.... Military (myself included) love to just give the facts without a lot of fanfare.... Most of his experiences were riveting but read like a Military ops report... I wish John Grisham or David Baldacci would have helped to write this book. I do give it 5 stars and think it is well worth reading and deserves a spot on your coffee table.
Retired Admiral McRaven offers sage advice that can be used by all people when dealing with difficult times. My favorite came from his chapter, Stand Up to the Bullies:"Without courage, men will be ruled by tyrants and despots. Without courage, no great society can flourish. Without courage, the bullies of the world rise up. With it, you can accomplish any goal. With it, you can defy and defeat evil.''
