https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74049.Focus

My copy (Penguin Modern Classics edition, 1986) contained an interesting introduction that Miller wrote over 40 years later, containing his explanation of Anti-Semitism.The hero, Lawrence Newman, lives in a row of houses in the Borough of Queens in New York State.
However, Newman, who has anti-Semitic leanings and, as we learn, can produce his baptismal certificate, thinks that he looks like a Jew, as do his neighbours and work colleagues.This feeling that he is unjustifiably regarded as a Jew poisons his enjoyment of life and almost wrecks his first serious love affair.
Despite its short length, Miller here has written a very thought-provoking and enlightening story, that of a man in 1940s New York, swept up in the dark and increasing undercurrent of anti-semitism which was at that time growing like a cancer among some people.
Despite the book being written more than seventy years ago, it still seems very relevant and important in the face of current anti-Islamic rhetoric and the struggles of other minorities to gain civil rights in the many years since the book’s publication.On top of this, you have some beautifully powerful characterisation in the establishment and description of the central protagonist, quirky and witty as it is.
Heftiges Buch ... und zeitlos.
Singer il minore aveva accennato al disagio di sentirsi ebrei nella democraticcissima America e anche Roth ne ha fatto un suo argomento privilegiato: ma li avevo letti come fatti privati in quel mondo libero in quei tempi bui del vecchio continente: un disagio di chi non accetta di essere come tutti.
Miller ( quello a cui tutti preferiscono l’Henry dei Tropici) mette magnificamente in scena i violenti portatori americani di quei pregiudizi d’autore, facendoti provare nausea vera non con un truculento melodramma ma usando un uomo piccolo piccolo, propenso a stare nell’ombra e a fare come le tre scimmiette e come i milioni di tedeschi del III Raich, suo malgrado costretto a mettersi nei panni di un ebreo.
Bir topluluğun (toplumun) doğuştan gelen belli özellikler merkezinde değil ilkeler üzerine kurulmasının gerekliliği, mahalle baskısı, ırkçılık, kadın erkek ilişkileri sade akıcı bir dille anlatılmış. Sevdim çarpıcı bir kitap olmuş.
Only if the reader makes Mr. Finklestein the main character can you actually see that Arthur Miller thought anti-Semitism to be wrong.
I want to call it shocking how anti-Semitic almost the whole cast of characters (even Mr. Newman) are but the real truth is that I know that religious, racial and ethnic persecution still exist even in our America today so I can't even feign some surprise in it.
They are so hard to read through that the hate crimes could leave a reader so disgusted by those events that they could easily miss the entire point of this novel.
Man, this book opened my eyes to a piece of American history I had no idea happened.
A short-sighted man, a gentile, avoids wearing glasses because they accentuate those features of his that bring to mind the stereotypical face of a jew.
When his eyesight gets so poor it noticably affects his work, his boss insists on him wearing specs and then his troubles really begin.
These new specactles are so powerful even his surname begins to look jewish.
Then, if things didn't seem bad enough, he falls in love and marries another gentile who looks a bit jewish too.
The title is therefore a play on the idea that wearing glasses changes his whole perspective on the world as his previous antisemitic views are abandoned once he finds himself on the receiving end of the hate.
Focus is a moral tale because Lawrence ends up developing sympathy for the Jews and feels like he’s “setting down a great weight” when he lets a police officer believe he’s a Jew in the final chapter, rather than protesting as he would have done before.
The story follows Lawrence Newman after he awakes in the middle of the night to hearing a screaming woman being assaulted.
The bachelor enjoys a home in a white Christian neighborhood and works in New York City and is largely successful until his eyesight gets the best of him and he's forced to get glasses.
Miller's tale is a classic tale of what it's like to live in another man's shoes but also well layered with reflection by Lawrence as he comes to weigh the meaning behind the white supremacist view and how easily it insinuates itself into the minds of the privileged.
This is a really fantastic and true to life novel and also the only novel Arthur Miller ever wrote.
Newman, a man living in post World War II Brooklyn, holds the same level of anti-semitism that is brewing in the neighborhoods around him.
He has gone about apathetic to his ignornant bigoting until his eyesight forces him to get glasses that cause him to appear "uncannily Jewish." Suddenly he experiences a world of restrictions and gentlemen's agreements that leave him alienated and wondering what it is exactly he and so much of America are really intolerant about.
Though ultimately the feeling after reading Focus is that something was missing -- something that could have earned the novel five stars and masterpiece status -- Focus is still a quality read and highly recommended.
Miller is adept at creating rich characters with real personalities and inner souls, at generating suspense through foreshadow, and at involving the reader through conflict.
The theme is looking the other way when your fellow man is in distress leads to yourself falling victim to the very forces you shied away from engaging with.
The theme is developed through the use of racial stereotypes as the platform for scapegoating and struggling for power.
This book is borderline 5 stars.
A bold and powerful attack on the wartime anti-Semitism prevalent in America prior to the revelation of the full extent of the holocaust's horrors.
Written with wit and Orwellian simplicity, Miller shows the supposed evils of the semitic character to be a mere reflection of the suspicions a collective with an identity (in this case, the good Christian folk of America) would like to express towards all humans, their distrustworthy selves included, projected onto an "other".
Penned by a man better known for his topical and acerbic plays, what begins as an amusing sub-Metamorphosis tale of a man whose new pair of glasses transform him into a Jew develops into a thoughtful story of racial acceptance.
Fiery prose.
1945 novel focusing on one man's response to anti-Semitism ... after a new pair of eyeglasses makes him "look like a Jew." A bit dated but still powerful and provocative. Ignorance and hatred of "the other" is sadly timeless.
This book exposes the reality of evil people that exists in this world who hate other people simply because of appearance, race, religion and stature in life.
First published in 1945, the theme is anti-Semitism in America, and Miller admits himself in the introduction (written in 1986) that this turned out to be a less major threat than it had seemed at the time.
The story is entirely focused on Newman, a careful and colourless man in his 40s whose eyesight is failing.
Newman works for a company that does not employ Jews and he is himself mildly anti-Semitic.
Miller makes this unlikely-sounding set-up entirely convincing and produces a novel which has an important message but is never didactic.
O personagem, Lawrence Newman, não é propriamente um antisemita, mas ignora o tratamento rude, hostil e violento que é destinado aos judeus no meio em que vive...isso, até ele precisar usar óculos, e acabar sendo confundido com um judeu, o que afeta sua vida de forma drástica.
Eu achava que ia ser bem clichê, do tipo, "agora que ele recebe o tratamento igual dos judeus, percebe como tudo é injusto, e acaba se curando de seu preconceito"..mas, não, é muito mais complexo que isso!
Arthur Miller deu um senso de realidade aos personagens, que fiquei me perguntando se não pode ter sido real, de tão bem pensado e escrito.
Es vergonzoso que, en una de las primeras escenas del libro, hiciera caso omiso de la agresión a una mujer solo porque era latina y ya debía de estar acostumbrada a que le pegaran.
Sin embargo, hacia el final del libro, empiezo a sentir compasión por él.
La escalada de violencia que se produce desde las primeras miradas suspicaces hasta el ataque final llena al lector de inquietud.Por otra parte, parece incomprensible que, mientras Estados Unidos luchaba en Europa contra los antisemitas nazis, en suelo patrio realiza una discriminación similar contra los judíos.
An anti-Semite gets glasses which he thinks make him look more Jewish.
Not sure if Arthur Miller means that everyone in the 40s was constantly on the lookout for Jews, or if Newman's increasingly deferential and victimized behavior caused the change.
Most likely the former; it's not a particularly subtle book.There's a moment of clarity towards the end which is superb, followed by some rather believable mental fumbling as Newman comes to grip with what being a bigot really means.
The wrap-up is satisfying, but rather more like a play than a novel: the character development is complete, but ultimately the narrative is unresolved.
Que se siente cuando tu vida da un giro de 180 grados y de golpe te encuentras formando parte de aquellos a quienes hasta hace un minuto odiabas y despreciabas?Que se siente cuando todo el odio que enviaste al aire vuelve para golpearte en el pecho como un bumerang ideológico?Que se siente sentirse desprotegido y víctima, luego de pasar toda tu vida señalando acusadoramente y haciendo daño?La única forma de responder estas preguntas será tras recorrer las páginas de esta obra literaria impecable.
Prachtige roman die leest als een thriller. Meesterlijke observaties, heerlijke setting in het New-York van de jaren '40 en een helaas nog steeds actuele thematiek: jodenhaat en racisme in het algemeen.Miller is een kei in het beschrijven van de menselijke geest en drijfveren en de zoektocht naar identiteit.Onvoorstelbaar dat dit pareltje uit 1945 heeft moeten wachten tot in 2017 om vertaald te worden.
I had never read any novel by Arthur Miller but I am a huge fan of his plays. This novel has all the dramatic intensity of one of his plays and as such is a thoroughly enjoyable read. You can see that Arthur's pedigree of play writing has come through in his prose writing as all of the characters are rich and interesting. Well worth a read.
It's an important book and shows the insidiousness of anti-Semitism, but it's just SO SLOW. Maybe that's what it takes for someone to begin to question their prejudices, but it just felt so formal, even stiff (which was mostly due to the main character).
interesting examination of anti-semitism and prejudice, wth a main character who is easy to hate but it is interesting to see him change and learn as the novel progresses and his anxieties are realised.
Very current. Loved it.
It has a good theme and intention. Just very boring.
Amazing novel, in which Miller explain's how the U.S. itself had problems with minority rights back then when everyone who could escape, escaped from the old Europe for the same reasons.
The main character Mr. Newman actually fights with his own fears and demons.
He just wants to stay in his comfort zone.
The movement which fights against ones which are different and against minorities is rising and he finds himself in the crossfire between his passivity and his natural instinct to protect himself and Finklestein who is in a life-threatening situation.
So he has to choose, whether he wants or not.
This book should be on high school required reading lists.
Ein amerikanischer Angestellter benötigt eine Brille und wird damit für sein Umfeld plötzlich zu einem Juden. Und er wird auch entsprechend behandelt. Eine Geschichte über Rassismus und Vorurteile und darüber, wie sich der Blick verändert, wenn man plötzlich auf der anderen Seite steht.
