https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19674.The_Teeth_of_the_Tiger
Without any doubt, Clancy sketched out the overall plot and delegated the whole chore to a ghost-writer.
You can see that also from the way some comments and observations are repeated in different chapters, used basically just as "fillers" to satisfy a writing contract.
At least, other writers like Clive Cussler, have given up pretending they do the writing, and they put "Clive Cussler and John the Ghost Writer" on the cover.
(That way, you know upfront that the book is a piece of crap, and you don't buy it : ) ).
Even if you like Clancy, stay away from this one.
At least there were no English characters in the book this time which deprived him of the chance to give them all names like "Rupert Smyth" or "Quinten St John Pilkington" - to all of Clancy's fans in America please believe me when I say that NO-ONE in England has names like that.Dialogue - Painful...I lost count of the times the Caruso brothers called each other 'bro' - they are supposed to be educated and in their late twenties - would they really talk like a couple of teenage gang-members?
As a long time reader of Tom Clancy’s Jack Ryan series, I avoided reading Teeth of the Tiger for several years because I knew it wouldn’t live up to the original series.
Unfortunately, my fears turned out to be totally justified.The original Ryan novels, all of which I gave at least four stars here on goodreads, were some of the most complex and suspenseful books I’ve ever had the pleasure to read.
Your time would be better spent reliving some of the moments that made the original Ryan series so great, none of which you’ll find in this novel.
This was something Clancy might have written in high school when he was just beginning to think about someday being a world-class author of techno-thrillers.
It travels straight down a one-way street from beginning to end rather than taking the convoluted route with twists and turns and backtracks and side trips that mark a true Clancy thriller.
The bad guys get what's coming to them and the good guys go home satisfied that all's right with the world rather than knowing that there are still evil bastards out there that they'll have to deal with sooner or later.I hadn't planned on reading any of the follow-up stories that others have written in the Jack Ryan vein, but slogging my way through this has solidified my resolve to avoid them at all costs.
By the time he wrote this novel, though, Mr. Clancy seemed to have lost it his touch.
Red Rabbit was at best passable and The Teeth of the Tiger continued the decline.
It’s very sad to see what was once a great author who has declined so much.Having said that, The Teeth of the Tiger is still a somewhat entertaining novel, arguably worth a read for the Clancy fan.
Unfortunately it is predictable to the point of annoyance on the part of this reader., I really wanted to like this book, and was having a pretty good time.
Tom ClancyThe Teeth of the TigerNew York: G.P. Putnam’s Sons, 2003431 pp. $27.950-399-15017-X Terrorism can cause death, destruction, and hatred. In the novel The Teeth of the Tiger by Tom Clancy, we learn about terrorism from the points of view of the Islamic terrorists, of innocent bystanders, and of the people that have dedicated their lives to stopping it. This novel is about two twin brothers, named Brian and Dominic Caruso, that get thrown into the fight against them. The Teeth of the Tige
In the novel The Teeth of the Tiger by Tom Clancy, we learn about terrorism from the points of view of the Islamic terrorists, of innocent bystanders, and of the people that have dedicated their lives to stopping it.
The Teeth of the Tiger fits into its genre of action/mystery in many ways.
The Caruso brothers get recruited by a top-secret organization called “The Campus” to find and eliminate known terrorists and supporters of them.
The Caruso brothers were hired to act upon the information the analysts find and eliminate the known terrorist threat using a drug called succinylcholine injected through a hypodermic needle.
Unfortunately I had to give up on this book, simply because the pace was too slow. After a promising start, nothing else happened after 200 pages and I simply didn't want to waste my life carrying on. I'm disappointed this book wasn't ripped apart by the editors as there's no excuse to fill 200 pages with needless waffle, boring dialogue and slow,slow pace.
Tom Clancy created a tough act to follow with his Jack Ryan series.
The end of the cold war and 9/11 reshuffled the deck of threats to the United States and The Teeth of the Tiger attempted to do the same for Clancy.
It actually has better pacing and less techno-drag than his late Jack Ryan novels did, coming in at a nearly anorexic 431 pages.
The problem is that good is never good enough for Clancy fans and Jack Ryan can never be duplicated.
Clancy painted himself into a corner when he made Jack Ryan president.
The Teeth of the Tiger is actually a pretty good story.
Tom Clancy is one of the best conspiracy and political writers in my opinion.
I do not think this was one of his better books as it read like a mediocre conspiracy novel.
The book is based around ‘The Campus‘, and organization created by Jack Ryan Jr. It is separate from the government and funds itself by playing the stock market.
This book is about the struggle against them.This book is still good for any conspiracy or action reader, but don’t expect the same material all the way through from Clancy.
I’d say the book would be good if you felt like some action and wanted a lighter read.
I usually read them pretty much straight through in a couple days.The trio of Jack Ryan Junior and his indistinguishable cousins, Aldo and Enzo or Brian and something were never very sympathetic characters.
Granted, the terrorists' plot is certain feasible and somewhat terrifying, but nothing compared to past Jack Ryan universe books.The payback by the good guys comes up short as well.
As I approached the end of the book I kept waiting for things to speed up, but instead I got Aldo and Enzo's drive through the Italian countryside and their burning desire to stop for a bite to eat.The book then abruptly reaches an ending meant to set up the sequel(s), but I doubt I'll bother to read them.
Con i soldi si poteva comprare la gente e la protezione, e non solo difendere la propria vita e quella della propria famiglia, ma anche controllare il proprio Paese".Per la prima volta Jack Ryan, il personaggio principale della saga scritta dallo statunitense Tom Clancy, cede il ruolo di protagonista al figlio Jack Ryan Jr. E tutta la trama del libro si può riassumere semplicemente così: nella prima parte c'è la pianificazione e l'attuazione di un attentato terroristico da parte di fondamentalisti islamici in territorio americano; nella seconda c'è l'indagine (e l'eliminazione fisica di chi ha orchestrato e finanziato lo stesso atto terroristico) da parte di un segretissimo ente americano istituito dal presidente Jack Ryan prima che scadesse il suo mandato.Da questo, quindi, sembrerebbe di avere tra le mani un libro a tutta adrenalina dalla prima all'ultima pagina...
Translation -- they can kill bad guys.We watch Jack Jr. learn the financial and intelligence analysis ropes while his cousins are in training of a different sort -- how to track and execute "targets" with a space-age pen-injection needle that delivers a poison that causes an immediate and painful death in its recipient, but breaks down quickly in the dead body so that nothing but a massive heart attack remains for the medical examiners to fret over.While these guys are learning their new duties, the story alternates with four groups of terrorist Muslims from Saudi Arabia who infiltrate the US, with some help and automatic weapons from some drug-dealing Mexicans.
See if you can stomach this: two twin brothers, nicknamed Aldo and Enzo, are assassins working for a quasi-governmental organization (the Campus) that is accountable to no one.
Jack Ryan Jr. works there as well and cannot shut up for one second about what his dad did once upon a time.
The assassinations ordered by the Campus are carried out by the brothers with a syringe that is disguised to look like a pen.
It is cowardly and stupid and the people taking this action are murderers, though you are supposed to believe they are heroes.As you can imagine, Jack Ryan Jr. ends up going overseas and has to help commit one these crimes.
Sadly, this one starts off with a real kick and then fizzles into a really lame pulp novel--and not even a good one at that.I had pretty much given up on Clancy, but then enjoyed Red Rabbit and The Bear and The Dragon almost as much as his original novels.Now, I feel like I put my foot in a cowpie out in an Oklahoma pasture.
Let me set this one up for you:Jack Ryan is out to pasture, no longer president.
Finally, young Jack, jr., with no training, is sent into the field to assist his cousins...
This unnecessary ode to boredom is set in Clancy's once visceral world of Jack Ryan.
We find Jack Jr. all grown up and working for a intelligence consulting firm secretly set up by his father years ago.
Jack's job is ostensibly similar to the job his father first had at CIA, as an intelligence analyst.
The book also follows the story of two brothers, one an FBI agent, the other a Marine, both recruited by the same organization to become hitmen.
I don't mind Clancy's penchant for American jingoism, but if he's going to wrap his story around spies and hitmen, it would be nice to have them spy and murder occasionally.
We have, somehow, leaped in time to where Jack Ryan Jr. is an adult and has graduated college.
And it reads as though Clancy threw it together in a short amount of time, to meet a publisher's deadline for a finished product.
This author did FAR better with his early works, and the last one I would consider good (and it was only borderline good) was "The Bear And The Dragon." The second largely John Clark Themed book, "Rainbow Six," was the last book of Clancy's to be an engaging read.
I used to love Tom Clancy.
This book is bad in several respects.
There are passages that are literally verbatum, often used as similies or metaphors, used in different parts of the book.
It's fairly distracting.The premise is ok, and in typical Clancy style, offers some insight into the thought processes of people in important, powerful and dark places.The story itself is pretty bad.
Mostly predictable, and poorly justified in terms of motivation.
Although Clancy spends considerable time justifying everything.Finally, it just takes way too long to tell.
The Cliff (Coles) notes version would be about 2 pages long.
I love the Caruso brothers, but the morality discussions among them are too tiring. The ending was too abrupt.
Like his previous book, Red Rabbit, few people have anything nice to say.
While I loved that book, I admit I did begin to see, in Teeth of the Tiger, what fans were so hung up about.
You see, this book starts off excellently.
I won't give too much away, but the main premise is that these two nephews of the great Jack Ryan are employed as spys.
In the end, I think he should have called it Reflections on the Foods and Customs of Western European Capitals (Oh, and Islamic Terrorism)..
I didn't give it 2 stars because I haven't yet finished it, but eventually I'll pick it back up and read the rest, just have to be in the mood.
I may give it a different rating depending on how I like the rest of it when I do finish it, but I have a feeling I know how it's gonna end, because I recently finished Dead or Alive, the sequel to The Teeth Of The Tiger, which Dead or Alive picks up shortly after this one.
This was a poor book. The third one in a row really. Tom Clancy should have stopped with Executive Orders. He seamed to have lost his edge at this point. Oh well. Not sure if I’ll read the rest of the Jack Ryan universe, we’ll see.
Vale que está hiperespecializado en escribir sobre Defensa Nacional, en cualquiera de sus sabores, desde los marines al FBI, pero es que este hombre las clava.
Por si alguno de mis lectores no lo sabe, en el año 1994 (remarco la fecha), TC andaba pensando, para su novela Deuda de Honor, en un ataque desaforado contra el gobierno de los EE.UU.
Si hacemos caso omiso a las opiniones personales que ocasionalmente mete en el texto, queda un libro excepcional.
- Tom Clancy's war interpretations and ideas resolving millitaries problems - Descriptions of a Federals companies and it's business (such as CIA and NSA)- Exhaustive details taking the part as story builds up- Intrigue manner that was more present in the beggining and then suddenly kept missingBad parts: - The majority of the dialogue between two brothers (Brian and Dominic Caruso) - worst segment of the novel and it just was...
I continue to enjoy Tom Clancy books.
This one wasn't particularly fast paced, but it was informative and interesting.
The way it was written the story moved along, but for all the "adventure" it wasn't written in a very exciting manner.
The characters were true to life, and this was the introduction of Jack Ryan Jr..
Clancy continues to give us an inside look of the clandestine services (CIA, NSA, etc.), and to some extent our federal government.
In this book he also gives us an idea of how some terrorist groups interact with one another.
I found it very interesting for this day and age.
Eighty pages into this Clancy book, I decided to dump it.
Clancy has an amazing grasp of US government, its agencies, its approach to terrorism and he is very inventive about plot.
In this case he deals with the recruitment of 3 new additions to a hush-hush, off the books agency tasked with combating terrorism without any supervision.
Scary.However, he goes on page after page describing the three characters, the various government agencies and this new one.
So much telling without showing or plot advancement.
Tiring.
Sorry Clancy, I admire you but get tired reading some of your books.
A mediocre attempt to capture the (admittedly jingoistic) magic of his previous novels. Pathetic, disproportionate, ridiculous, uninterested in consequences, and - the greatest sin - forgettable. I used to like Clancy novels as a kid, but this may be the last one I ever read. There's one cool observation in the novel: FBI agents shoot enemies once, because an economy of force should always be used; Soldiers shoot twice because, to paraphrase, "anything worth shooting once is worth shooting two times". This is a book worth shooting two times.
I really hate to talk badly about a book, especially a Tom Clancy book. I mean, this is the father of thriller writers, right??? I don't know what happened with this one but it quite honestly one of the slowest books I've ever read. I only read it as it's the first in a series that Mark Greaney starts co-authoring by about book 4 (I think). I'm always very particular about reading books in order, but in this case, I'm going to skip ahead to where he takes over.
By this point, Tom Clancy seems to have lost his ability to craft huge and deeply-researched war novels, and became just another spy-fiction-paperback writer. And not a good one, by the way. When you take away the research and the deep and clever plot from a Clancy book, you're left with awful dialog and a total lack of sensible character behavior.
Just picked this one up at the airport and I'm about half way through. Great book. I've never read any Clancy before but I've always heard good things. If you like the whole espionage thing, you'll love this book. Very detailed, you'll feel like you're learning something that you shouldn't know.
Say hello to the decline of Tom Clancy, as this book isn't anything like some of the bigger epic scale books of the past. Aside from his techno-obsessions, that is. Clancy disregards his own continuity and all sense in continuing on the Ryan family story with Generation Two, and a pair of cousins newly retconned into the family tree. Stick with the earlier books.
