https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15157.Saving_Faith
I have to say though, the first 300 pages were a bit slow.
But the last 200 pages were very good.
The story is about the FBI and CIA and their abuse of power.
Faith Lockhart is caught in the middle of a “sting”.
Her boss has been illegally bribing political officials in Washington for a good cause.
One of the heads of CIA has caught wind of this bribery and gets involved.
And what he didn’t count on was Lee Adams, the PI hired to watch over Faith.
This is a very interesting story that involves the FBI and CIA and of course politics.
His writing is not always so smooth and sometimes there are elements in his work that seem improbable.This work is a good read, and the plot speeds the reader along.
Key characters: Lobbyist Danny Buchanan who uses corrupt methods for a good cause; his associate, Faith Lockhart; Lee Evans, a PI; Robert Thornhill (a top official in the CIA who still lives in another era--and who hates the FBI).
Thornhill does not want that to happen, as he is using Buchanan for his own ends, to advance his conception of the CIA's interest.

A standalone thriller from Baldacci, pitting an insider CIA conspiracy against the FBI, with a pair of Capitol lobbyists as the bait. Moves along at great pace, as do most Baldacci books.
This is BAD, and not in a good way.1.
When he later says, "Sorry" she says "It's o.k., it's not your fault." SAY WHAT?!?!?!?!?
Then, may I ask, whose fault IS IT?
How can any self respecting man or woman take the rest of the book or the author seriously?I usually donate books I have read to Goodwill or to a fundraiser for the local library.
However, as a conscientious human being, I do not donate books this BAD for some other unsuspecting schmuck to waste time reading.
This one will make a good firestarter for my firepit.
And after a series of twisting events, Faith and Lee become joint fugitives, and the FBI are drawn into the mess, in order to find out who killed their agent that was shadowing Faith on the faithful night.In this story, several Feds and civilians die along the way, as the author gives a gripping tale that will keep you on the edge of your seat, while making sure that the audience is resiliently drawn along from chapter to chapter.The entire book is well written, but I’ll point out that this is an old tale, written back in 1999; so its about 13 years old.
This is where I pretty much gave up on Baldacci.
I thought I could rely on him for brainless filler reading but now he's just annoying.
"Willing suspension of disbelief." Look it up.
Basic agreement between author and reader.
I'm willing to accept a lot of things when I'm reading fiction (I read vampire novels, fer chrissakes), but I cannot abide shaky premises in order to support an equally weak plot.
She's not really even looking for a tax shelter.
She then proceeds to blow the whole thing with one stupid phone call.
POINTLESS PLOT COMPLICATIONS.
David Baldacci, I shun thee.
Baldacci’s book has all the elements of a story that I would and should like, but unfortunately the execution was not something I enjoyed.
The political lobbying/Washington side of the story was really interesting, but I really wanted more – the story seemed to only skate at the surface of it.
The crime/police element was slow to get going and I felt that a tighter approach to it, and indeed the entire book, would have been better.
I wanted to like this book, but unfortunately I did not.I may try picking it up again down the road, but as of today I can hardly stand it.
always love reading David Baldacci..this book was a bit longer than some of his other books, but found the story entertaining..love the character of Lee, PI..would like to have him in another book..thought the almost father-daughter relationship between Faith and Danny were a warm touch in an otherwise brutal killing story..so glad when the good guys win.
The fact that it took me two weeks to remember that I had finished this book and needed to write a review should tell you just how little effect it had.
For those who are terribly interested in the world of lobbying and influence peddling in Washington, D.C., this novel may be slightly more engaging.
I'm a middle-aged midwestern housewife who has never been chased by anything scarier than a rooster and I can tell you that's a bad idea.
While the first quarter of the book was slow and I didn't know which direction it was heading in, it picks up during the second quarter.
Some of the story was in a way, scary, because something like what happens in the story could really happen with the US Government in real life, you just never know, but I won't spoil it for anybody.Even though it didn't seem to get as much praise as some of Baldacci's other books, I still found it intriguing, near the end I just couldn't put it down.
Saving Faith is the kind of book you select when you want to be entertained but not mentally challenged.
It's not bad, and although the story is somewhat formulaic, it does have enough twists and turns to keep the reader engaged and entertained.
It does try to convey a few moral lessons, but the primary purpose seems to be keeping the reader guessing at the various levels of intrigue and corruption centered within the Beltway.The story centers on a witness (Faith) who can implicate bribed politicians in Congress and all the way to the Whitehouse.
Faith Lockhart has been the right hand man for a powerful, successful lobbyist for years but strange things are going on and she thinks it's time to call in help so she goes to the FBI. Before she can even explain the situation, an agent is killed. I'm a huge fan of Baldacci and this is as good or better a story than his others. The characters are enormously interesting and likeable and the plot is wild and credible.
I usually enjoy a good Bladacci mystery. I hated this one for the following reasons 1) a sexual assault by the main character that was excused as if any man in his shoes would have done similarly. 2) a poorly written romance between two characters that I did not find believable 3) no likeable characters
Ever had a book hangover?
You know the feeling that you get when you've read a brilliant book and you can't get it out of your head?
OK, well you won't have to worry about it with Saving Faith.
It's about a woman named Faith and a guy called Lee and the CIA and FBI and it's set in Washington and people get killed and rescued and shot and stuff.
I read it in 24 hours, and beyond that description all I can say is I wish I knew what happened to the dog.
Did the FBI hurt it when they stormed the house????
Good Baldacci. There are so many twists that when you reach the finale, you wonder if something else happens. The premise CIA vs FBi, political intrigue, bribed politicians ring accurate, unfortunately. This particular bribery has a great twist. The 'bad guy' is really horrid, and the conflict well written. The romance is a bit schmaltzy, but okay. I always like his books, this one was incuded.
Another competent thriller from Baldacci, though with a few flaws. This is more a thriller than a mystery with way too many characters, flat dialouge and a flabby 450 pages. Not his best, but a little more believable than some of his recent books and an easy read. As far as his early works go, The Winner and The Simple Truth are better.
(view spoiler)[ He violently, sexually assaulted the woman, and they were madly in love the next day. It was demeaning to me, the reader, and served only to make the plot more ridiculous. (hide spoiler)]Baldacci can do better. Do yourself a favor, and skip this one.
Didn't realize that rape was part of the story line, not a fan of that type of story line so I didn't give it a chance.
If you don’t like reading books with some of these various additions I stated earlier, then pass this one up.
If you do like these types of high stakes, thrilling books and would like to see more just without the negative stuff in it, write a short review on Amazon to let the author know of your interest and thoughts.
Many authors read reviews and take to heart what readers want or in this case would like to see left out of the future books.I like being able to hopefully positively influence authors, reviewers and readers alike by writing my thoughts about a book.
This is one of those Baldacci books that seems such a prime candidate for the silver screen. While the plot is primarily a drawn-out chase at the heart of the plot, the twists taken and the way the characters tangle among the Washington power-elite keep sending the story in different directions. Like any good thriller, the reader is prompted to constantly ask themselves, how can this possibly wrap up to a satisfactory conclusion? Hang in there. They make it in the end.
New peopleA whole new series from Baldacci. Once again the characters blossom and new adventures are created. As with all his novels, Baldacci writes seamlessly, introducing you to people whom you live and support in their trials. Keep the novels coming.
You can read my review at http://world-of-sleuths.blogspot.com/....
Not quite as riviting as the last one, but a pretty good read. I was not as into the lead characters as I was his last book I read, don't know why, and was not pleased with the "up in the air" ending.
Baldacci’s book has all the elements of a story that I would like, but unfortunately the execution was not something I enjoyed.
The political lobbying/Washington side of the story was really interesting, but I really wanted more – the story seemed to only skate at the surface of it.
The crime/police element was slow to get going and I felt that a tighter approach to it, and indeed the entire book, would have been better.
I didn’t find the characters particularly engaging and apart from a couple of moments, I was not sufficiently invested in them to care about what happened to them.
I wanted to like this book, but unfortunately I did not.
That tells me it's pretty slow for me....even though I've been swamped and not reading much.
I am sure I would sneak a bit more reading in if I was crazy about it.---Part 2It took me a week to finish this book.
I've read a few of his books and have admired the way he can write a good suspense, action novel without a lot of swearing.
This book was written in 1999 and I hope it is not indicative of where he goes in more recent novels.This is also the first novel I've read with romance and sex in it.
It just took awhile for me to get to that point.

You know those authors of which you always see books, always want to read one and never do....well Baldacci was one of those for me.
Finally I read the first book and i am so glad about it.The beginning was a bit slow but when finally everything was put in action it became better and better.Faith Lockhart is the assistant lobbyist of on of the best lobbyists in the United States.
I simple jb it looks till one night everything goes wrong and everybodies life changed forever.The story became very fast in that way that you jsut don't want to have breaks in between.
It started well, lulled me into a stupor for the next 300 pages and ended predictably.
The book was littered with lengthy descriptions of congressional lobbying and wrangling, layers of useless bureaucratic triviality and character histories that, combined, amounted to a lot of unnecessary filler, imho.
I was initially impressed with Mr. Baldacci's Absolute Power and found The Innocent mediocre but with Saving Grace I was so rankled that I did not close the book after the first 100 pages, that I will move on to other authors rather than chance another marathon of futility.
Another good entry into the political thriller genre, although a little dated, being published in 2000.
Using the trope of an ultra-secret group trying to achieve it's own goals with no regard for others, Baldacci creates an intricate plot featuring characters from the FBI, the CIA, and other Washington regulars.
A little slow to start but intriguing as it comes to its finale.
One interesting aspect: in Saving Faith, one of the heads of the CIA does his dirty deeds because he is furious that the FBI gets a higher level of funding than the CIA; now, in fact, the CIA gets the largest level of funding of all US intelligence agencies.
