https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37304.Winter_Prey
As Lucas tries to track him down the Iceman grows ever more desperate and violent.The Prey series has such a generally consistent level of quality that it’s hard to pick a high point for the series, but I’d name this one as my favorite.
The Iceman was one of the nastier and more memorable killers in the long list of villains the series has had, and Sandford did a great job of showing us his point of view while disguising his identity so that when he’s finally revealed it’s a very satisfying answer.
This is excellent! My first book by John Sanford and I'll never forget it, just so crazy good!! A must for any John Sanford fans and any detective lovers!!
Indeed, the severe weather that permeates the novel virtually becomes a character in and of itself, to the point that the reader might well want to be sitting in front of a blazing fire with a snifter of fine Brandy close at hand.The book finds Sandford's protagonist, Lucas Davenport, separated from the Minneapolis PD and virtually hiding out in his Wisconsin cabin.
"'Exactly,' the doctor said." Little does Lucas know...As the story unfolds, it becomes clear that there are a number of nasty characters in addition to the Iceman in this small town and some pretty nasty secrets as well.
The chill factor of reading about The Iceman pales in comparison to the chills provided by the ongoing wintry conditions Lucas faces.
What really made this one stand apart was the complete shift in direction to the last book where Lucas is now helping a small town hunt down a serial killer and work out who the chuff it is.
The Iceman is a good antagonist without ever being completely memorable, I imagine in another 5 books time I may have forgot the majority of his actions.
I look forward to the next in the series and where things head from here.
It's the worry that everyone knows each other that drives the Iceman, this book's especially brutal and pragmatic killer, to open the novel by slaughtering the LaCourt family in their home.
He's the out-of-town bogeyman, the big cop who has been brought in and deputized especially to solve the case, but she's the one who really knows the suspects.I appreciate Sandford not wringing every drop of horror he can out of the sex ring.
(hide spoiler)]Series notes: Lucas and Weather make a good couple, at least for now, and I really like the early awkwardness of their relationship, where she keeps trying to flirt with him and keeps coming across as strangely rude instead.
Small town life where everyone knows everything about everyone else except one thing that is worth killing over.
Quite a good mystery with excellent characters & motivations.
It really hung together well.Lucas is a great main character.
He & the other police made some good deductions, but also quite a few that seemed reasonable & were completely wrong.
Some things didn't get resolved either, but most did.
Excellent.This is a great series.
Highly recommended if read in order.
I was discussing it with my dentist yesterday &, like me, he originally read a couple of books & liked them, but they weren't in order.
The Iceman is the kind of guy who if he doesn't want a picture shown around, a picture of an unidentified nude man from the shoulders down, he will kill everyone in the house to find it.
Frank and Claudia can't agree on what to do with the picture, so they argue about it, off and on, as the snowy winter night gets colder.
This is a small town and the kid, Jim Harper, comes from one of the 'bad' families in Grant, Ojibway County.
For protection.Then, a kid Davenport questioned at the school doesn't come home.
The kid told Lucas about the picture.Davenport isn't feeling good anymore.
Without giving away any of the finale, I must say that, for me, when the author reveals the killer's identity, he came over as less than brilliant, not a tight fit with that sinister person I'd been envisaging for so long.For me, the main male character, Lucas Davenport, is rather thinly drawn.
The brutal slaying of a Wisconsin family is linked to a paedophile ring via a photograph, which would reveal the identity of The Iceman, a malevolent personality who is also a child abuser and a cold-blooded killer.
Outstanding! What a way to end 2017...Since I read these books out of order-the author introduces Weather, the love interest for Detective Davenport. The title says it all-even the action is “bone chilling”.
I enjoy this particular story, especially the local characters Davenport meets, including his future love interest, Doc Weather.
Here's a great passage:Weather: Why don't you go in and lay in some hot water?
I'll put together a snack.Lucas: TerrificHe half-filled it, fooled with a control panel until he got the whirlpool jets working, then eased himself into it.The door opened and Weather walked in, wearing a robe, carrying a bottle of wine.
She might have been blushing or it might have been the hot water."What about the snack?" Lucas asked."You're looking at it, honey," she said.
Foi o primeiro livro que li do autor e adorei completamente, leitura compulsiva e fácil.
Minha opinião aqui:https://anealecorvoliterarios.blogspo...
It’s terrifying how easy it is for someone like the Iceman to exist within a community, to abuse and murder people without being caught.
Nor does the police department in Grant have the experience to investigate a group of murders like this.
Lucky for them, Lucas Davenport has had plenty of publicity, so they know where to find him.They’ll need him when the murderer careens out of control.The CharactersLucas Davenport has the experience that Carr needs to work this scene, and he’s staying in his cabin in Sawyer County.
The story takes place in Wisconsin; Lucas Davenport is summoned from his cabin to take a look at a murder.
The Iceman, who is the killer, is searching for a picture that could incriminate him in a child sex ring.
The murders needed to happen so his identity could stay a mystery.
As the story goes on, there are more people who end up dead, but Davenport finally figures out who the Iceman is, but is he in time to save the woman that he is falling in love with?
This story is full throttle and the ending has you cheering for what happens to the Iceman.
Reading any of John Sanford's "Prey" series is always a treat, but as with most series books, I prefer to start at the beginning.
Given the rather large number here, of course, it's possible I won't finish for another few years; I also like to read one or two, then a book by someone else, then back to a Sanford book, and so forth.This one is somewhere around No. 5, and prior to this, I much preferred Sanford's books featuring Virgil Flowers.
But my husband Jack, also a Sanford fan who likes to start at the beginning and is way ahead of me, told me the writing gets better as the books go along.
I love the "Prey" series.....have lost track of how many I've read and have never been disappointed... had to reach back to 1994 for this one, and can now attest that John Sandford's earlier books were just as good as his more recent ones. Hoping there are more to come!
We learn early on that the couple had come across a photograph showing a shadowy pedophile in action with a teenage boy that they know.
We also learn that the killer, called “The Iceman,” did the deed to recover or destroy the incriminating photo and dispose of those who knew about it.
The Iceman, it turns out, is the pedophile in the photo.Lucas discovers that even small towns experiencing -25° frigidity have terribly seedy people—not everyone spends the entire winter in their sleeping bag sucking on bourbon.
The Iceman is clearly a member of a local pedophile ring.
This one felt a bit reminiscent of Eyes of Prey (#3) and Silent Prey (#4) in regards to the antagonist - Iceman - thinking in terms of himself and “the Beast inside”.
The antagonist in the previous books thought of himself in terms of ‘Beauty’.
Too similar for my taste and maybe when the books were first published, it wasn’t so bad given the lag in publishing dates, but since I’m reading them almost back to back, it popped out at me.
So, I knew who the bad guy was about chapter 5ish and had to wait till chapter 21ish for confirmation.
This is an interesting change of pace for the PREY series.
In addition to the change in setting, the antagonist of the book is NOT the usual "super-smart bad guy," which is a nice change from previous novels.
Davenport's love interest is actually a well-rounded and interesting character, as well, instead of the one-note characters we've seen in a few of the past novels.
I don't want to say too much more for fear of spoilers, but there are many plot complications, and a decent amount of suspense.The PREY novels are all entertaining, and Sandford does a nice job of keeping them fresh and interesting.
ebookAbsolutely excellent mystery. Nothing super natural. I could believe this story happening.In the 90's friends of mine moved from San Jose, Ca. (big city), to the rural Sierra Nevada town of Grass Valley. They really thought that they were safe from all the big city crap. Their teenage daughter and her friend were murdered by the friends boyfriend. My point, they were lulled into non-survival complacency.
I caught a cold reading this, that can't be a coincidence... I don't know how anyone can live in conditions like this, it was interesting to read about it but I definitely do not want a first-hand experience.I liked the freelancing thing and the involvement of the Iceman's "girlfriend", creepy, sad and too real.
Maybe 4.5 stars. A well-plotted story. Recommended.
Rated RHave you ever read a book that started with an introduction from the author about how fantastic the book is and how proud they are of the work you're about to read??It's interesting.If you want to experience that, you probably want to try it on a different book.This one brushed the edges of an atrocity without really calling out the atrocity.The author introduced the killer once, which is fine...
They started out one way and stayed that way the whole time, except for the sheriff, whom the author couldn't decide whether you should feel sympathy for or be annoyed at for his politics.BUT the author did use the Wisconsin winter as a character (which he was also really proud of) and he used it well.
A decent outing that sets up Davenport into a different type of job.
Sandford really likes getting inside the heads of his killers, and I have to admit it's the least interesting aspect of these books for me.
Diving deeply into the dark heart of murder isn't all that interesting for me.
That said, he has gotten away from revealing the killer immediately and then making the entire book a big chase.
The final sequence where Davenport and the cops chase him down isn't particularly interesting and it's not all that competent either, a major change from the rest of the book.
I can't remember the last time I read this book, but man!!! what a great book!!! This is the one where Lucas get the scar on his neck that your read about later and also where he meets Weather.
I’m really not bragging, I just got into weird shit too early.But this book got to me.
The one thing I can always say about Lucas is that he’s the guy you would want working your case.
But he’s still the best at what he does.See, I just wrote a small review that said I wasn’t gonna take two hours to type an in-depth essay on a fucking iPhone, but here we are.
If you take anything from this review, take this—I loved this book so much I seriously fucked up my thumb writing all this bullshit.
As others have said, I feel this is the best so far. You feel the weather and the emotions of the characters. Once started, hard to lay these page turners down.
Good read!This is The fifth book that I have read in the Prey series. I’d like to everyone so far I specially like the characters by the end of the book I feel like I know them.
I've been told that they need to be read in order, so I started with #1 Rules Of Prey (loved it!!), tried #2 but couldn't get into it, read #3 Eyes Of Prey (liked it), and skipped #4 for now because I was anxious to move on to this one.
By the time I was approaching the end of the book, I didn't care much (if at all) about who, what, or why.I didn't feel like Lucas's character was very well-developed in this one.
The good news is that this one can be read on its own, for anyone who hasn't read anything else in the series.
The suspense of this twisted story is overwhelming and will have you anxious to continue reading.
Trust me, you will have a difficult time putting “Winter Prey” down.
After a myriad of investigations, the local police department is finally catching up on this twisted guy.
A nondescript photo gives the police a clue they desperately need in identifying this wanted felon.
Once the Iceman realizes that the local police department is on to him, he attempts to flee the town.
As the gap narrows down between the police and the criminal the tension intensifies.
Do yourself a favor and pick up a copy of “Winter Prey”.
