https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80834.Pyongyang
I think of mentioning it to our charming guide, but why bother in a country that’s so devoid of common sense? I've spent most of the last 24 hours immersed in non-fiction graphic novels. Tatiana's review of The Arab of the Future 3 inspired me to seek out other graphic novels about foreign countries, and I've already read and enjoyed Sacco's Palestine and Delisle's Jerusalem: Chronicles from the Holy City. Pyongyang: A Journey in North Korea is another Delisle book, but this one I liked conside
Tatiana's review of The Arab of the Future 3 inspired me to seek out other graphic novels about foreign countries, and I've already read and enjoyed Sacco's Palestine and Delisle's Jerusalem: Chronicles from the Holy City.
Pyongyang: A Journey in North Korea is another Delisle book, but this one I liked considerably less.
It didn't sit well with me how callous and pompous Delisle is towards the North Korean citizens, most of whom live in fear of imprisonment, or worse.
Our guide is truly stunning, and listening to her graphic descriptions, I think up a few tortures of my own that I wouldn't mind inflicting on her.
And with all the excellent write-ups people have given it, I was hopeful it would offer a)an insightful account of a travel/work experience in North Korea and b)a narrative that was somewhat self-aware and unlike so many travel logs by douche-baggy Westerners who have a superiority complex yet claim not to be racist.
He’s constantly infantilizing North Koreans in their tastes and their political alliances, as well as their interests and leisure activities.“It’s always a pleasure in these countries to pay $5 for a lousy cup of instant coffee” (35).
You'll know it the minute you see it, You'll collapse into inappropriate mirthMrs Kim Jong-un (looking up from reading the New York Times):The Jong-uns, darling we're the Jong-unsAnd Jong-uns shouldn't be afraidto build - socialism - while the flame is strongCause we may not be the Jong-uns very longKim Jong-un:Climb ev'ry mountain, ford ev'ry streamFollow ev'ry rainbow 'till you build a socialist utopiaA socialist utopia that will need all the love you can giveEveryday of your life for as long as you livePrez Obama:How do you solve a problem like North Korea?How do you drag the Kims before the courtsFor infecting all the people with such fearThey try to make their brains stop thinking thoughts?Kim Jong-un:Pyongyang is pretty, oh, so pretty, It's so pretty and witty and bright!
This is a work of satire.
Which means that trenchant wit, irony, sarcasm, parody or caricature is used to expose and discredit vice or folly, to ridicule conduct, doctrines, or institutions.
When I read the reviews, I have the impression that people tend to forget this, or that they really don't like this genre.
A considerable number of reviewers think the author is racist, misogynistic, self-righteous.
I don't see him like that at all.
His satire and politically incorrect jokes are lighthearted and not really offensive, and above all, he has always a self-mocking attitude.
At some point Guy Delisle was surprised by the complete absence of handicapped people in Pyongyang.
But I LOATHED the artist's tone, and it was distracting.
I found him to be disrespectful and xenophobic.
Yes, I said disrespectful and I meant it.
Forgetting the FLAT-OUT RACIST comments he casually drops about other asian nations, I don't think he understands the difference between criticizing a tyrannical government and criticizing an ethnic culture.I am also not a fan of his artistic style, but that's just a matter of opinion.[note: This was translated from the original French, so while I think a certain je ne sais quois might have been lost in translation, i don't know what it might have been.]
Delisle's Pyongyang experience is a little different from his other books because in the case of North Korea, Delisle is here to work on animation studies for a film.
Must be pretty grim work, considering Delisle's experience ensconced in a big, empty, cold & impersonal hotel in the city...surely as comfortable a place as can be found.Anyway, one gets a very good sense of what his days were like, what the city looked like, how fun was to be had, if it was to be had at all, but very little of the inner lives of residents, which is to be expected.
Deslisle was an animator before he started making comics, and oddly enough, North Korea has been a world leader in cell animation for decades.
Animation is the most unlikely of North Korea's rare export success stories, and a dying one; cell animation continues to diminish in favor of easier, cheaper and better computer animation.
But North Korea's richest domestic crop is fear and paranoia, and what with the insane dicktators and the nuclear bombs and all, it's become their top export as well; now the rest of the world can enjoy cold war-type armageddon-shivers with a spicy Korean flavor.
More Comic-book Reviews
Pyongyang: A Journey in North Korea - originally published as 'Pyongyang' in French - by Canadian cartoonist Guy Delisle, is a travel memoir presented in a graphic novel format.
Guy Delisle records the routine life that he faced during his stay in Pyongyang as sharp notebook sketches brimming with his thoughts and opinions on whatever sights and people he was allowed to encounter.
The ‘author intent’ was to showcase the personal viewpoints and thoughts of a foreigner who was experiencing such a strange controlled environment for the first time as candidly as possible and in this ‘Pyongyang: A Journey in North Korea’ succeeds.
I think I finally snapped after the author talks about how people in North Korea are going without food, only to turn around and complain that he's gaining weight from the oily food they serve him at his hotel.
How the fuck can you be so insensitive to complain about being so well fed while others literally starve around you?
How do you draw that and then think, "Yes, this is a perfectly reasonable thing to complain about.
Look, if I want to avoid trying to bite through my tongue while casual racism is tossed around like glitter at a child's birthday party, I'll have dinner with my white Southern conservative family.
Una manera fácil y amena de aprender un poco más sobre el terrible régimen norcoreano. En este reportaje Delisle nos cuenta su propia experiencia en este país y resulta tan surrealsita que a veces no puedes evitar soltar alguna carcajada... pero luego lo piensas y te dan ganas de llorar.
I've been trying to read more books about North Korea because of recent news events.
(Apparently a lot of animation is now done in Asia.) Delisle has a Western viewpoint, and he shares his cynicism about the endless propaganda and nationalism that is promoted in North Korea.
Being a foreigner, he has several privileges that the citizens don't, such as access to more food and electricity, but everywhere he goes he has to have a local guide with him, which was like having a prison guard monitoring his every word and movement.Because so little is known about North Korea -- most of what we know comes from people who have defected -- I really liked this graphic novel travelogue, and his experience matches other material I've read, so it seemed believable.
I rated it 2 stars at first simply because I felt bad hating something a friend had lent me... But I've gotta be honest, so this is getting a 1 star and a spot on my "hated list".I didn't even bother finishing it, I was just too annoyed by the author's tone, his racist and misogynist remarks and the very poor humor.This is not for me at all and I'd much rather be reading something else. Give it a try if you're curious (Delisle seems to be a very popular graphic novels writter) and see for yourself.
Reading this about the same time I read Persepolis 2 got me thinking about the differences between the experiences each author had traveling/living in another country.
In Persepolis 2, the characters are a hodgepodge of flavors; in Pyongyang, there are two types: foreigner and native.Delisle seems blissfully unaware of his own prejudice and selfishness, which was what really made the book ring true.
In fact, he gives one of them a copy of 1984, ignoring the possibility that it will be OFFENSIVE as well as subversive.During his stay in North Korea, the main character is alone simply because he chooses to be.
I have to agree with some of the other reviews that call Delisle on his racism and misogyny.
It was plain, old boring thinly veiled racism and misogyny.
The small glimmers of North Korea were interesting (although clearly coloured by his racism) and if it wasn't so coloured by his typical privileged white Western male bullshit I think it could have been humorous.
It can't be used (clearly) to generalize about North Korea, but it was still interesting to see those glimmers.
As it stands, it was simply okay and I don't feel quite right about recommending it due to the racism and sexism.
All of Guy Delisle's comic books are beguiling, funny and insightful and Pyongyang is extraordinary in this regard. And, in this particular moment, with certain dictatorial presidents trying to legitimize the completely f*cked up regime there (surely the ground-breaking of Trump Pyongyang International Hotel, Casino, and Bordel will happen in 2019-2020), it is a timely read. The author does all the drawing and screenplay and is a pleasure to read due to his perceptiveness but also his deadpan Canadian humor. Yes, he is Canadian so there is another reason to read it now ;-)
His actions and thoughts often manifested a sort of smug elitist western attitude that was off-putting, I don't know if I only just realized it in this work or if this is also in his other work and maybe I'm just more keyed into this kind of thing?
I actually liked various scenes in the comic but the disrespectful smugness and moments where he acts incredibly self-righteous brings the work down a couple notches for me.
One can make a critique of totalitarianism and state violence without dehumanizing and disrespecting its victims.There is a sort of ironical symmetry where Delisle critiques a regime for dehumanizing its people while often manifesting his own dehumanizing attitude towards its victims.
Guy Delisle je u Sjevernoj Koreji radio kao posrednik između francuske produkcijske kuće za animacije i sjevernokorejskog studija koji im je radio manje zahtjevnu animaciju.
Proveo je dva mjeseca u Pyongyangu, a u istoimenom stripu je zabilježio svoje dojmove.Kako tehnologija napreduje s njom se razvija i reklamna industrija, tako da nam sve više vidike zaklanjaju raznim plakatima, a predviđa se da će u skoroj budućnosti plakati biti "inteligentni" i interaktivni, znat će tko im se približava i prilagodit će reklame baš za tu osobu.
This book is a true account of a French animator (Guy Delisle) who travels to North Korea to oversee a cartooning project.
Since North Korea is one of the most closed nations on earth and is run by a totalitarian government, this insight into North Korean life is amazing and somewhat shocking.
Delisle also throws in some facts about the world of animation, which is also interesting.
This book will not only give you a peek into a strange world, it will make you appreciate the freedoms we have.
She pretty much does an excellent job summing up.I forced myself to finish this graphic novel and felt like smacking the guy upside the head...
Boo hoo hoo, poor French Canadian dude has to spend a few months in North Korea, living what is a very good life and eating very well compared to other North Koreans, but whining through it.
Acting like a pretty standard spoiled, holier-than-thou Westerner.
It is a poor, unenlightening account that doesn't bring you any closer understanding of the people or how much more he really has to learn.Of course his next book in on China (Shenzhen)!
Bit different than other graphic novels I read. There is no classical storyline, plots twists or punchline.This is kind of memoir from one of not many foreigners who had visited North Korea and brief window into bleak realty of country surgically removed from the rest of the world.
Çizimler çok iyi, konuyu işleyişi eğlenceli. Beğendim. 3.5/5
I wanted to like this.
I really enjoy graphic novels, I enjoy them when they are non-fiction, and I have been wanting to read travel memoirs since it's am unexplored and fascinating topic for me.
It did make me want to read a bit more on it.
The writer displaying human emotion felt either like it wasn't genuine or like the emotions came from a condescending place.
I took a long time to get through it because it was hard to just want to pick it up knowing that not much of it was going to suck me in.
Second book I read, and the only reason I read it was because I had just read Our Twisted Hero, a story by a Korean author about Korea in the fifties, a political parable I really liked, and found moving and insightful, so I thought: oh, Delisle was there in recent years, he may give me some deep insights into contemporary North Korean totalitarianism that we don't already know, because he spent a little time there doing animation with Koreans who are going to be used for sub-contracting jobs for very little money compared to their French (artistic) collaborators.
Read as a trenchant political satire, I thought this had some hilarious parts and I liked Delisle's "take" on his time in North Korea. I wonder how/if the country has shifted since the time of this writing.3/5 stars - entertaining, informational, with some laugh out loud moments.
This is a travelogue from cartoonist Guy Delisle who went to Pyongyang, the capital of North Korea to work on a French Project regarding some animation film.
Every single thing in that city was weird for a foreigner like MR.
Every building in the city, every room of those buildings (Except the toilets!) has the photo of Kims hanging to glorify the whole nation!
Every person working for the Government must wear a pin on their shirts featuring the Kims photo!
Guy Delisle illustrated quite a lot of bizarre rules he had experienced and those are mandatory for the city dwellers to follow!
The reason for widespread boycotting of North Korea, even by aid organizations, is that economic activity doesn't help the people.
Bringing economic activity to North Korea just props up the regime that made the country a brutal dystopian hell and is keeping it that way.
If you work in North Korea for a company like that, you are complicit, you are part of the problem, and you are a bad person.
All the assholish things the author thinks and does in the book are just symptoms of this sort of willfully blind not-my-problem just-doing-my-job attitude, which is toxic anywhere, but is effectively sociopathic under autocidal totalitarian regimes.
Considering that photographs and reports of the country are so heavily censored and restricted, Delisle very creatively illustrates his time spent working for an illustration company in the city.The novel is very witty, humorous and satirical from start to end, providing the reader with an insight into what the North Korean's often believe, and what is actually the truth.
Delisle might often slip up into personal bias and opinion, perhaps forgetting to consider a more deeper insight into the motivation and understanding of the North Korean people - perhaps I'm being too optimistic or sympathetic.Another interesting excerpt is when Delilse asks another illustrator to produce a two page example of an incident that he experienced whilst working in North Korea.
Un punto di vista distortoUn viaggio di lavoro dell'autore si trasforma in un'occasione per scoprire e per descrivere la Corea del Nord, con le sue stranezze e le sue peculiarità.
Come quella del Presidente, che è rimasto in carica anche dopo la sua morte.
O il fatto che gli abitanti dello stato con il quarto esercito al mondo siano affamati e in povertà.
O che la Corea del Nord sia l'unico stato al mondo senza internet e telefoni cellulari.
Meno come l'argomento stesso sia trattato.
Bisogna entrare a fondo nei fatti per capire le ragioni delle cose che si osservano; stare alla superficie dal nostro punto di osservazione privilegiato non basta.
O que digo aí não podia assentar melhor no problema com que me deparei ao ler "Pyongyang: A Journey in North Korea", um livro de banda desenhada escrito por Guy Deslile, no qual relata os dois meses que passou na Coreia do Norte a trabalhar num filme de animação.“Pyongyang” revela-se uma espécie de obra voyeurista, tal câmara escondida, em que a objetiva era o olho do autor, e o gravador as suas memórias.
Tem valor enquanto registo que reporta um real, dá conta de um fluxo temporal num espaço concreto, mas fica-se por aí.[Imagem]"Verdade e Fantasias nas Histórias", texto escrito esta semana para o IGN“Pyongyang” não tem história, porque é apenas descrição do dia-a-dia de quem passou dois meses num local.
But having said that, Guy Delisle's work fails to shed any new light about the life of people living in North Korea.
Being a cartoonist, Guy Delisle visited North Korea for 2 months on a work visa to supervise the animation of a children's cartoon show.
3.5 stars Further reading about North Korea:Nothing to Envy: Ordinary Lives in North Korea by Barbara Demick (which in my opinion is the best book written about North Korea that I have read)The Aquariums of Pyongyang: Ten Years in the North Korean Gulag by Chol-Hwan KangEscape from Camp 14: One Man's Remarkable Odyssey from North Korea to Freedom in the West by Blaine Harden.
