https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79551.Moominpappa_at_Sea
The story begins with Moominpappa not feeling needed around his home in Moominvalley, so he decides to pick up his family and move to an island he has only seen on the map.
The island is no tropical paradise--it actually sounds quite imposing, looming over the Moomins at first sight like a giant shadow--but holds mysteries aplenty for the whole family: Moominpappa and Moominmamma; Moomintroll and Little My. There is the old abandoned lighthouse, and the antisocial fisherman who lives on the opposite side of the island.
Portions of The Exploits of Moominpappa parody Dicken's and in Comet in Moominland and Finn Family Moomintroll she parodies in the character of the Muskrat professional philosophers in a gentle, but sharp way.All these comparisons to Dickens, Hemingway, Marquez and others might suggest that she is too complex for children.
This is personified by the character of Moominmamma who is described as very moral but broad minded.All of the Moomintroll books explore deep themes with a subtle charm.
This book has everything a children's book should have: Pipe smoking, whisky, and existential crisis. This book taught me a lot about life when I was younger, and I still find it as comforting and mysterious as ever.Tove Jansson, you are the best, I give you a kiss on the nose!
A peculiar only-sort-of-for-children late Moomin novel where the family attempts of combat leisure-ennui by moving to a ragged lighthouse island far out in the ocean. Concerns itself to a large degree with the need for strife, or at least a challenge, to give daily purpose -- without which lies only depression and torpor. Yikes. Still some strange moments of magic and wonder, of course, but tempered by cynicism and a warm-but-realistic sense of the petty and no-so-petty impulses that drive people.
არანორმალურად სევდიანი წიგნია, ყოველ შემთხვევაში ზრდასრულის გადმოსახედიდან. ბავშვობაში რომ წამეკითხა შეიძლება უფრო მსუბუქდ აღმექვა. და კიდევ მგონი ნაითვიშის Islander-ის ინსპირაცია ვიპოვე :)) ტუომასს მუმინები ნამდვილად უყვარს და :დ
Niin ihana tunnelma ♥
When Moomintroll reports that he has extinguished a small fire in the moss, his father becomes unexpectedly cross and obsessive: "Don't imagine that a spot like this isn't dangerous.
Far from it.
It can go on burning under the moss, you see.
The cast of characters is far smaller than usual.
As with all of later Moomins books, the tone is overwhelmingly melancholic: more than anything else, it is about loneliness.There is a wisdom in these stories, as well as a deep connection with nature, that I suspect will appeal to adult readers more than children.
Muumipappa ja meri ei ole helppo muumikirja, mutta se on hieno sellainen. Luulen, että tarina aukeaisi paremmin luettuna kuin pätkissä kuunneltuna. Majakkasaarella on aikaa miettiä itse kullakin yksinäisyyttä, parisuhdetta, milloin mitäkin. Ahti Jokinen lukee pääosin todella hyvin, vain hänen Pikku Myynsä hihitys ärsytti välillä suunnattomasti. Muumi-ääninä hän on mitä mainioin.
ახლა სრულიად გასაგებია, რატომ არიან დაინტერესებულები ფსიქოლოგები, ანალიტიკოსები, თერაპევტები და ფილოსოფოსები იანსონის მუმინებით.მთელი წიგნი ერთი დიდი არაცნობიერი ზღვაა.ასეთი უჩვეულო საბავშვო წიგნი ოდესმე თუ წამეკითხოს...
Kaunis, rauhallinen, syvällinen ja ehkä melkein enemmän aikuisille kuin lapsille kirjoitettu muumikirja. Sydän.
Olen lukenut tämän kirjan varmaan muutamaan kertaan elämäni aikana. Tämän viimeisimmän innoitti Bengtskärin majakalla vietetty vuorokausi, joka antoikin hyvän taustan meriaiheen ymmärtämiselle. Mikään lastenkirjahan tämä ei ole, vaan ennemminkin eksistentialistinen tutkielma oman elämänsä merkityksen löytämisestä, kaipuusta, peloista, luonnostakin...Välillä tuntui, että jokainen lause oli jonkinlainen aforismi, mikä teki tekstistä hyvin painavaa. Toisaalta taas luontokuvaukset osuvine, yllättävine sanavalintoineen sekä tietysti pikku-Myyn rehelliset tölväisyt kevensivät tunnelmaa. Tämä Muumimamman ajatus ristipistoilla kodin huoneentauluksi: "Siivoamista ei pidä aatteena liioitella".
The story began dark, and it only got darker and more suffocating the longer it continued, a feeling of inevitable doom lingered around the lonely island and the huge lighthouse the Moomin family moved into.
And he tried, he tamed, and his family fell a bit apart, and the sea was too powerful, and the trees on the island started to move and the island started to breathe during night, and Moominmamma physically disappeared into a painting.
Littly My mainly disappeared and reappeared, strolled and adventured around on her own through the whole book, knowing a lot more than any other person on the island, on the story.
Zusammen mit Klein Mü beziehen Mumin, Muminmama und Muminpapa den verlassenen Leuchtturm auf der Insel.Das Buch hat eine durchgängig ungemütliche, bedrückende Stimmung.
Aber auch Mumin und Muminmama werden zunehmend melancholisch und ziehen sich immer mehr in ihre eigenen Welten zurück, während Klein Mü völlig unabhängig von den anderen dreien ihre ganz eigenen Erkundungen unternimmt.
In gewisser Hinsicht wird jeder der vier eine eigene kleine Insel für sich.Es geht also viel um Selbstfindung, Melancholie, Einsamkeit, Heimweh, aber auch um das Erwachsen werden und darum seine eigenen Wege zu finden.
Von den fröhlichen, etwas verschrobenen aber immer liebevollen Mumin-Charakteren ist hier nicht mehr allzu viel zu finden.
Mikä ihana tunnelma tässä onkaan!
It's To The Lighthouse but with moomins.
I've been on this Moomin saga a long time now, some years, occupying my small book, fourth slot on my rota.
This one is no different.Not for the first time in the series, this book revolves around the sea, the author seems slightly obsessed with it.
As you do, when you're having a midlife crisis and you can't buy a porsche, because Moomins can't drive, you uproot your entire family with no notice and go and live on a deserted rock way out at sea to become a lighthouse keeper, much more phallic.
A jsem rád, že děti milují muminky taky.Tatínek a moře není jednoduché čtení - je to předposlední kniha, která vyšla dvacet let po té první.
Muminkova rodina se tak sestává jenom z tatínka, maminky, Muminka a malé Mii. Zbývající postavou je nerudný a téměř nemluvný rybář.Kniha melancholicky už začíná: muminkův tatínek má splín a sní o majáku na ostrově.
A tak se rodina sbalí, opustí Muminí údolí a vyrazí na moře.Ostrov s majákem opravdu naleznou a stráví na něm léto a podzim.
A jak říkám, dětem se to líbilo.------------Recenze Kometa ★★★★Recenze Čarodějův kolobouk (TBD) ★★★★★Recenze Tatínek píše paměti ★★★Recenze Bláznivé léto ★★★★★Recenze Čarovná zima (TBD) ★★★★
This Moomin book surprised me!
This year I am aiming to read all the Moomin books I haven’t read yet, and this was first up on my list.
I really like her though – everybody is afraid of her because she freezes everything she touches, but she isn’t malicious; she just wants to be warm.
At one point she does a dance for Moomintroll which I found really amusing, and the part near the beginning where she “flies” across the sea by freezing it was a really beautiful and strange idea.
Taattua laatua. Niin paljon täynnä pieniä kultahippuja, että sai nauramaan ja todella pohtimaan.
Fick tre Mumin-böcker i julklapp och då blev det genast dags att läsa om Pappan och havet.
Det var mysigare än väntat att följa med mumintrollen till en ö mitt i havet och Tove Jansson är ju för härlig när hon beskriver natur och folk.
Jag växte upp med den japanska tecknade tv- serien och har alltid tyckt om den och det lugna myset som finns där.
Inte trodde jag väl att originalböckerna skulle vara ännu mysigare, men det var minsann denna!
Ska försöka lägga band på mig lite, men risken finns nu att jag plöjer vidare bland resten av Muminböckerna direkt.
4.5*
I don't acutally know any children who might have read this book, but oh boy! This does NOT seem like a children's book. Rather, I found it a totally profound book about a crisis in masculinty, midlife crisis and the dangers of isolation. Not only poignant but very moving and emphatic. This was so accurately and acutely observed that I'm ready to name it a masterpiece about the postmodern condition. As such, this is miles away from the usual fare of contemporary children's books.I'd be very interested to know how children would read this!
Oon kuunnellut tätä äänikirjana lapsesta asti. Muistan vieläkin, kun jonain kertana (en muista minkä ikäisenä) tajusin, ettei tässä kerrota muumeista ja kokonainen uusi kerrosten pinkka aukeni.
I've read all Moomin books multiple times but Moominpappa at Sea remains my personal favourite and I can't even begin to tell you how happy I was to finally get my own copy which I was desperately trying to get hold of for years.
So much is hidden in that text that it turns into a completely different magic each time you read it.The struggle of growing up, fighting loneliness, desire to understand oneself, the feeling of uprootedness, personal failure, it's all in there cleverly disguised as a children's story.But it's so much more than that.So much more.
I enjoyed taking my time with this book. It has a wonderful, strong atmosphere that I loved just sinking into one or two chapters at a time. The element of sea and living by the seaside is very strong here. I've never lived by the sea, but I still felt I could hear the winds, see the rocks and smell the sea air as I read this. I also love the subtle descriptions of the Moomintroll growing up, and the way the Groke becomes a much deeper character in this book than before.
Piezīme nākamībai - KAD pašai būs bēbji, jādodas izbraukumā pie jūras, un šis jālasa kopā.
As a kid, it felt a lighthearted adventure story. Boy, how gloomy it can be occasionally, when you are... not finding a better word... an adult.
"Mumifar slog en streg over alle sine spekulationer, han levede bare helt og fuldt, lige fra halespidsen og til ørerne"
I love them moomins. But this isn't really a story of sorts. I learned more about the Groke, which I liked and Little My is funny af. But it just kinda aimlessly potters along, with occasional moomin-y moments that make my heart swell. I'll have to read it to my kids to see what they think.Also, there was some mild moomin sexism, that I was not on board for.
Jag kan läsa om den här boken hur många gånger som helst. Jag for efter ett citat, det slutade med att jag läste hela boken. Igen. Den är konstant. Den tärs inte, förminskas eller böjs av tiden. Den som tror att böcker för barn "bara" är för barn tar så gruvligt, fatalt miste.
