https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77520.Miss_Julia_Speaks_Her_Mind
Having lived the stereotypically dependent, Southern church woman's life to this point in her 60s, Miss Julia is slowly transformed into a strong, sassy, Southern woman by dramatic and sometimes comical circumstances outside her control.
And, throughout the book, she speaks her mind, offering wry, witty, piercing observations about human nature, life and hypocrisy.
;-)I was further delighted by Miss Julia's inner conflicts and ultimate transformation, as she struggled with the emotions raised by the undeniable proof of her husband's loveless nature, attempted exploitation by people purporting to care for her, and introduction of strangers into her family life.
Miss Julia is presented as spunky, determined, having a backbone of steel, etc.
I know total trust & obedience to one's husband is very common among that generation (I know a ton of ladies that way) but I think the author swung back & forth between that & the so-called spunk.
One minute Miss Julia is planning a covert mission to Spartanburg and the next she's letting her pastor (who she's caught trying to swindle her already) convince her she's a nymphomaniac.Maybe it's a good read for women who are this generation with these views but it just irritated me.
Miss Julia is definitely NOT a 'Steel Magnolia.'
Set along the border of the Carolinas, in what seems like a small town near Hendersonville or an imaginary town that is Hendersonville renamed, Miss Julia is recently widowed and facing some major surprises - a son she didn't know her deceased husband had, a church that will go to great lengths to take control of her fortune, and other nefarious characters that have popped up since his absence.I struggled at times with this one for various reasons.
But it's always enjoyable to read a book set in the landscape where you live, so that was fun.
This was a fun quirky start to a series....Miss Julia has recently been widowed and now she is taking care of her Dead husband's illegitimate child.... but that's not all, she also befriends his mistress, and together all of them form an unusual family unit with some other characters thrown in... there really wasn't all that much of a mystery to this book, the mystery might actually be why is Julia so naïve? But I could see getting attached to these characters and wanting to see what they do next....
At the beginning of the story, we discover that Miss Julia has lost her husband, Wesley Lloyd, suddenly and unexpectedly several months before.
As we quickly discover, Miss Julia's wealth is not the only aspect of her late husband's life that she was unaware of.
What follows this bombshell is a sometimes funny, sometimes poignant and even thought provoking story of Miss Julia, Little lloyd and his mother, Hazel Marie Puckett...
This is a wonderful story about a woman who learns to stand up for herself and speak the truth...
Okay, so I didn't exactly FINISH, and here's why:This book is written as a first person narrator with a down-home-sy voice that (at first) makes Miss Julia very likable and trustworthy.
Twice that I remember, I rolled my eyes but kept reading, suspending my disbelief (or, at least, trying to).
THEN somewhere around page 190, Miss Julia does something that is so completely out of character and, furthermore, REACTS in such a way that is so out of character, that I completely lost interest.
I lost faith in her and in the book such that I have no desire to read the last third.
'Really?!?', I yelled (mostly inside my head), 'You [Miss Julia] are naive to the point of idiocy!!
But then I too a step back, and realized that Miss Julia is exactly the type of person who would be that naive, truly that naive.
Her growth through this process is wonderful to see, even if it is a rocky process, occasionally causing the reader to want to throw the book and yell at the people inside it.
Miss Julia is also not the only one going through growth processes.
I loved this book (it's the second time I've read it) It is so light hearted, taking situations that can/do happen in life and letting us experience through them the feelings, frustrations, worries you name it without having to actually go through it.
The reason it appeals is that we have all been in situations that we think we have under control and come to find out that nothing is within our control.Miss Julia is fighting so many areas at once that trying to keep it all straight in her head , yet it is beyond her capabilities, but having a loving, if you can call him that, husband that plans her live isn't all it is made up to be either.
It's funny and heartwarming, this story about a Southern lady who's just found out that her recently deceased husband has a 9-year old boy.
As the story progresses, I grow in fondness of Miss Julia, who is the epitome of a lady with a mind of her own.
And lest you think this Southern novel resembles the laidback pace of life there, the plot thickens with splatters of blood, kidnapping, and car chase!
What a delightful book!!! I loved it so much!! Miss Julia was a little prickly in the beginning but then she slowly came around and I grew to love her and her golden heart under it all ❤ the characters were hilarious as were the situations they got into. I must get #2 asap!
What a delightful book!!! I loved it so much!! Miss Julia was a little prickly in the beginning but then she slowly came around and I grew to love her and her golden heart under it all ❤️ the characters were hilarious as were the situations they got into. I must get #2 asap!
The first third read very quickly, as we are presented with her situation (newly widowed, discovers how wealthy her husband really was, is presented with her husband's "lovechild"--and why did she never use that term that was common in her youth?)But then Miz Julia simply became annoying because if she was that angry at being kept in the dark, kept on a short leash etc.
Sigh.There is very little character development here, because the authoress seems to want two-dimensional stereotypes to play with.
I expected the main character to learn to like the child she first refers to as "the little bastard" but that doesn't really happen.
Will I read another volume?
So many better books, so little time.
Miss Julia's husband passed away suddenly leaving her the sole heir of his considerable estate.
Miss Julia has her hands full when Little Lloyd's mama drops him off for her to care for while she goes to beauty school.
Everything goes down hill from there as Miss Julia deals with her house being broken into and ransacked, and her minister conspiring to have her declared incompetent to get her money.
Being a widow with money is challenging.
Everything works out in the end and Miss Julia ends up with her cup full to overflowing with more than she ever knew she wanted.
Julia did show some pluck, finally, at the end, and why she couldn't see how darling Sam was, I'll never understand.There's more in this series and I have them, but I am not sure I'll read them right away, or at all, though I will register them to be given out at the 2007 Convention.
I have been saving, hoarding and collecting books with a Southern theme or by a Southern author for over a year now, and am finally starting to register them.
Then it'll go into a tidy stack labeled "Convention Books".
The perfect combination of cozy and mystery. It's short enough and fast paced enough to read in one sitting if your family is content to eat ramen noodles for dinner.
I was in a book slump but I read this and it got me out of it! Amazing book.
"Miss Julia Speaks Her Mind" by Ann B.
It didn't blow my mind or leave me thinking profound thoughts (and I'm sure I will forget all about it in a week); however it had enough entertainment value to keep me satisfied.Miss Julia is an elderly lady who is recovering from the surprise death of her husband of many, many years.
But then she gets the shock of her life when a trashy looking younger woman drops a 10 year-old boy at her door, claiming the baby daddy is Miss Julia's late husband.
Will I read any more books in the Miss Julia series?
Ross must feel the same way, otherwise how could she have the genius to start a book that starts with a knock on the door.
But not just any door--it belongs to Miss Julia, a respectable middle-aged widow, whose Church attending husband lived an impeccable, if sterile, life.
Julia has always done what the men in her life told her to do ("When Papa said 'Jump', I was always the first one in the air").
In his new Buick Park Avenue.") Then she found out that this man she had always honored and obeyed had a mistress and a son - a son who was dropped off on her doorstep because Julia's philandering husband had made no arrangement for the mistress ("Wesley Lloyd didn't leave me a red cent… not even the house I been livin' in some twelve years now").
And off goes the mistress to get some training, leaving her son with Julia.
Very southern lit.
Old South meets New South.
Miss Julia is an older woman (60s?
which doesn't seem that old anymore!), recently widowed who ends up with a bit of trouble on her hands in the form of her dead husband's "secret family:" his 9-yr-old son & his mistress.
Hilarity ensues.
The characters are funny southern caricatures.
Lots of importance on "how everything looks" to other people.
What would the pastor think?
what would the townsfolk think?
Everyone who should, gets his comeuppance in the end.
And Miss Julia ends up A-Okay.
Poor Miss Julia.
Having just buried her controlling husband who died of a heart attack and learning just how much he was worth, she starts planning how to start spending some of her inheritance when the doorbell rings and she finds herself facing ....her husband's mistress and 9 year old son.
If that wasn't bad enough, the mistress leaves her son with Julia and flees.
Everything just spirals out of control at that point.
Julia has to fight a greedy pastor, a conniving doctor, a break in, kidnappings and harboring potential fugitives, but she's just fiesty enough to keep her head ....
Such a pleasant and light-hearted read! All the characters are engaging, some you love, and some the kind you so enjoy finding get their just desserts. I enjoyed both the characters and the story. Miss Julia is made very real, not a "goody two shoes" but one who still manages to do the right thing, even when she wants to run the other direction. I look forward to the others in this series.
These days I have to give some special stars to anyone who can make me laugh and Ann B. Ross did just that in her second book about Miss Julia. This book which is part comedy, part mystery is sure to delight. I recomment it for good entertainment.
Really enjoyable...just for fun...silly...light....funny...quick read...if there are more(someone told me it's a series) I would read them for something light!
She is sustained by her housekeeper and friend, Lillian, and her friends and lawyers Binkie (Elizabeth and Sam).One night, a young woman appears on her doorstep demanding that she care for her son -- Miss Julia's husband's son -- while she goes to take a beautician course.
Miss Julia discovers that her husband's Thursday night absences involves another woman and a son.
He failed to take care of his son so the mother must fend for herself.And then, all havoc breaks loose, and continues to break loose as all those people in her life and in the life of that other woman vie, manipulate, lie, kidnap, and more in order to find a way to get at the wealth left by her husband.
The concept of the man having dominion over the woman, while still found in lesser educated parts of the Bible Belt, is being recognized for what it is, a load of garbage.Ross has created a wonderfully constructed tale that is humorous and delightful in the way so many sacred cows are shown up for the hypocrisy that they, in fact, are.
Russian brain-washing that was so feared during the Cold War days doesn't hold a candle to the psychological control a minister has over his congregation.Miss Julia Speaks Her Mind is a delight from start to finish.
Ross manages to tell a story that is so appealing.
Miss Julia Speaks Her Mind is so good!!
Miss Julia's instinct is to call out the cavalry, but a calmer head in the form of Lillian, Julia's maid, prevails in pointing out that news of her husband's infidelities will get spread all over town and that they both know that it is always the wife who gets blamed for her husband's straying, no matter how wickedly adulterous the husband.
However, after further time to contemplate, Miss Julia decides that the Christian thing to do is to invite her late husband's illegitimate son into her home and publicly introduce him about town to make a clear, public statement.Read the rest of this review, more reviews, and other wonderful, geeky articles on FangirlNation
This is a very long series featuring an older woman named Julia Springer.
The book is comical as Julia gets involved in all sorts of hijinks.
I had a hard time through parts of it because it does focus a lot on faith and Christian values, but most of the villains of the book end up being pastors and others who you want to believe in but who you realize are just like any other human and can be tempted and led by things like greed.
To seem pious and Christian on the outside while being greedy, hateful or otherwise rotten on the inside is a paricular peeve of mine.
This is the first book in the series. I usually don't read series because I like my reading to be varied, but this is a cute story. There's enough of an ending to tie up the loose ends, but still the characters are endearing enough that if you like series you'll want to read the next one. I found it to be average writing, with an average storyline, but engaging and easy to read.
My sister sent this to me. She loves this series. I didn't love the poor attempts at a Southern accent or the constant use of "I declare." The story was pretty boring at first, but then it grew on me - even though it was pretty ridiculous. Overall, I found the book mildly entertaining. 2.5 stars rounded up to 3.
I thoroughly enjoyed my introduction to Miss Julia and look forward to spending a great deal more time with her in the near future!
