https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30437.Texas_Lucky
3.5 stars His chest was hairy.Some women didn't like hairy chests. Not me!! I love a hairy chest.I really wanted to read book 2 of this series and I really don't like to read out of order so decided to go with this one first. Its a good set up for book 2 and the story of Chase. He sealed their mouths together again, employing the technique he'd begun developing with the preacher's daughter and over the years had mastered to an enviable expertise Halfway through I was sort of rolling my eyes, thi
His chest was hairy.Some women didn't like hairy chests.
I love a hairy chest.I really wanted to read book 2 of this series and I really don't like to read out of order so decided to go with this one first.
Its a good set up for book 2 and the story of Chase.
Halfway through I was sort of rolling my eyes, thinking this is way too cheesy.
He was a bit of a neanderthal.
I usually like those types but he sort of came across as being a bit too cock sure of himself and entitled to anything he wanted.
While stopping by the bar on his way home he comes to the rescue of an out-of-towner, Devon, who is being hassled by some local jerks.
Devon isn’t happy to have this local boy being all macho for her sake.
Devon has skipped town and given Lucky a false name making it hard to track her down.
Regrettably that secret is what makes her reluctant to be his alibi.
I’ve read a couple of Sandra Brown’s ‘newer’ romantic suspense books and I’ve enjoyed them.
After reading this book I’ve decided I will stick to her “newer” stuff.SERIES:
My second book from this author, and I’m glad I stumbled across it at the library.
Not a taxing plot line, it was easy listening.
I thought this author was more thriller romance, but it seems she’s definitely a romance writer as well.Devon and Lucky made a full of chemistry couple, and it was nice to see Lucky (the bad boy) come good in the end.
This easy read actually has made me want to re-read Mean Streak, which made its way onto my favourites list.
As I’m new to this author I’m not sure what her reputation is, but I’ll keep my eye out and see what comes next.
"Lucky" Tyler thinks he's the cock-of-the-walk and everyone, save his younger albeit obnoxious younger sister, Sage (who also has her own book) and the heroine, Devon Haynes, who is soo militant feminist from the beginning, yet not really, because he secretly just wants someone to love her, and as soon as Lucky admits he does, she crumbles.
One way I think this book could have been saved is if Susan was the one who set the fire.
I love a good romance and the best ones have either humor or a mystery/suspense.
The best ones have both.
This oldie has a mystery/suspense which is not surprise as Sandra Brown went on to become one of the very best romantic-suspense authors, ever.Sometimes playing the "White Knight" can be life changing.
The beautiful redhead is now essential for his freedom.But, Devon Haines has secrets of her own and doesn't want to be found and is not going to willingly be Lucky's alibi.
Together they find the Lucky's enemy, now all that stands in his way is Devon's secret.
2.5 stars, rounded up to 3-stars cuz I sorta set up a low expectation for SB’s early 90 or 80’s books:/LikeTyler familySupporting castLameDevon is self-contradictory. Her reason for refusing to help Lucky is ridiculously LAME. The storyline has no edge. The characters are old-fashioned.On the positive note, I started Sandra Brown books four months ago and Texas Lucky was already my 17th read. So far, I haven’t dnfed any of her books whether it is new or old:/
it had a good story........................but it dragged so much :-(
One of Sandra Brown's earlier books and reads more as a Harlequin style romance than the twisty heart stopping suspense of her later novels. Nevertheless an enjoyable read with a heart stopping cliff hanger to be resumed in Book Two Texas! Chase.
How did I ended up reading two tomcat hero books back to back is strange..but also my bad luck."Texas!
(hide spoiler)]I have NO PATIENCE with heroes who literally dip their sausage in every feminine ketchup- and they are not romantic or manly.Then we have the crazy psycho OW Susan, who takes up a good amount of reading space.TBH I was more invested in the secondary characters like Chase and Tanya than their mess.
The ending was heartbreaking and I can't wait to read what happens next.The hero was a horn dog, the heroine a gullible mess and their story bland.Safe ???????????
It was because of the day that she had that she allowed a night of passion with Lucky.
Devon knew that she needed to stay away from Lucky.
She also couldn't ignore the fact that she needed to be truthful about where he was during the night in question.
Every time Devon and Lucky were together they could feel the raw passion that was burning between them but there was something bigger between them that kept them a part and as the story unfolded between them they would have to choose which road to take and neither road was going to be easy.
I loved reading Texas!
SB is one of my favorite authors, and I decided to reread this series since I remember loving it back when it came out. I remember Texas! Sage! stood out as my favorite, but I wanted to read all 3 of them again anyway. There are definitely some things in the book that show the times and date it a bit, however, I still thought it was a fun read, though I can see why I loved it more back when I was in my teens and was really into the old-fashioned, arrogant caveman type. Haha! ;-)
DNF at 5%I know, I know I didn't really give this book a chance.
But it ticked me off so much right at the start I just can't finish it (at the moment).
The heroine is pissed off at the hero because he saves her from sexual harrasment (or maybe even rape) because she could have dealt with it herself (newsflash: she couldn't).
And later the hero barges into her motel room and acts all macho even when she says she doesn't want him there.
And I really can't deal with TSTL heroines and jerk heroes right now.
Maybe some other time.
Lucky 3.5 out of 5) My least favorite of Sandra Brown's Texas Trilogy.
One night stand later, she beats it out of town as quick as she can, hoping to never see him again.As much as she wants to forget that night- and one Lucky Tyler- she finds herself smack dab in the middle of his life once again when, falsely accused of setting fire to his own property, she becomes his only alibi.
Of course, she’s got secrets of her own and, attracted tho she may be to the quick tempered charmer, she must soon make a decision between what’s best for her- and what’s the right thing to do.I love this old series by Sandra Brown for its entirety.
When Lucky Tyler helps a beautiful redhead out of a bad situation, he is upset when she disappears without a word of thanks.
Lucky needs to find her.
But when he does track her down, Devon Haines refuses to come forward and be interviewed.
Lucky comes off as obnoxious and self-centered.
She was a so-called feminist that would fight for women's rights, but wouldn't stand up and tell the cops that she had spent the night with Lucky and was his alibi.
We had a whole scene with her saying she couldn't tell Lucky why she couldn't come forward.
There were times where this story was so emotional that it brought tears to my eyes.
Brown had me caught up in this world in Texas, trying to figure out what really happened while at the same time hoping it will take a while so that the characters can work out their problems.
I love the way that Lucky was developed in this novel, and the story behind his nickname is absolutely priceless.
He is the perfect roguish gentleman, the best of both worlds.
Neither is content with the status quo but neither will break their code of ethics (too many times).
Lucky is certainly a hot Texan but he is also a bad, bad boy.
I am normally super put off slutty men but Lucky's attitude towards Devon made me forgive his less than honorable past.
Devon pissed me off a bit but overall i did like her.
I have already bought the rest of the books in the trilogy so i would of read the next regardless but i am looking forward to reading Chase's story and seeing how Sandra play's it.
I would recommend this book.
http://bookprotagonist.blogspot.co.uk/ - for more reviews, recommendations & book swaps
This put a smile on my face, which was exactly what I needed. Is it a profound story? No. Is it old school? Yes, but not to the point of it being rapey. Does it have faults? Yes. One of them, in my opinion, is the unnecesary setup for Chase's story through Chase's POV.But, to me it's a sweet, light romance which does deal with some issues with woman's rights that where relevant when the story was written.
This is my first Sandra Brown novel and I have to say that I enjoyed it. Although some people shelved this under romantic suspense, which was misleading. It had a little mystery, but it was pretty predictable, not what I would call suspense. The romance between Lucky and Devon was cute! It was a nice entertaining read, and I will be reading more from this author in the future!
A good read but nothing to sing and dance about! The suspense of who set the fire was laughable and couldn't believe Lucky and Devon was so stupid and they took so long to work it out.
I'm not impressed...
Setelah menghabiskan malam dengan seorang wanita yang mengaku bernama Dovey, dia dituduh membakar gudang milik keluarganya agar mendapatkan asuransi.
Lucky harus mencari wanita itu sebagai alibi, dan terlebih lagi karena dia tidak bisa melupakan wanita itu.
Sayangnya, saat Lucky berhasil menemukannya, dia menemukan fakta baru.
Wanita itu telah menikah.Dovey a.k.a Devon ternyata seorang jurnalis.
Setelah memakan waktu seminggu lebih, akhirnya dirinya dtemukan oleh Lucky.
Namun dia tidka bisa membantu Lucky membersihkan namanya dengan mengaku bermalam di sebuah motel bersama Lucky.
Bagaimana pun juga Devon harus menjaga perasaan suaminya.
Karakter Lucky yang cerdas sepadan dengan Devon yang mandiri.
Tapi kisah Chase lebih membuat penasaran.
Two stars because it was a quick, easy read. But the story is really pretty dumb. Guy tries to save a girl from two neanderthals in a bar and ends up in a clusterfuck of trouble with his business. He cheats on one girl to persue the one he saved. And whatever happened to Susan Young. Was she mixed up with the two neanderthals?
I've just bought the entire trilogy for less than $4, shipping included! *jumps excitedly*
This book has more going for it. It has a large and loving family. This first book of the Tyler family saga is about the younger son Lucky. He’s a womanizer and a hothead. He finds trouble every time. This isn’t overly complicated but a nicely told story.
Trying to keep themselves out of trouble in life and love, they both learn that resisting one another isn't in the cards, but surely their hot romance will only lead to more trouble.
They're always trapped in some loveless relationship or poor life choice, in need of rescue and a good "roll in the hay".
I don't mean to sound picky...I get that romance novels are suppose to be less about substance and more about sex but...um...why is that again?
As crazy as it sounds, that's what I look for in books like this, remind me of the feelings of fresh and fabulous first love.
Lucky Tyler wasn't looking for trouble, but that's just what he found.
When two local men started harassing a woman from out of town at the local hook up bar, Lucky couldn't help but intervene.
It was his ability to sweet talk women in or "out" of things that had earned him the nickname Lucky.
Problem is she mysteriously disappeared without a trace.Lucky is confident, a little cocky, and very cute.
I just adore how he gets a little crazy when he's looking for Devon and can't find her.
Thank you Ms. Brown for sending me this book.
She didn't appreciate his interference and didn't even thank him before leaving the bar.
Lucky followed her out of town to get a "thank you" from her, or so he believed.
Actually, he was attracted to her and used to getting any lady he wanted.
He expected to hook up with Devon for a one-night stand but it didn't quite work out that way.
We then find out that a crime was committed that night and Lucky was accused of committing it.
It is funny to see a man who always "gets the girl" fall for "the girl" but she doesn't want him or any man.
Maybe it helps that it has more length so the plot can grow slower and stronger.It’s obvious that the author has an attraction for hairy chested guys.I must say that I did enjoy reading this book.
I usually don’t read this kind of book in a contemporary scenario so I was surprisingly pleased.
I would welcome more books of this author like this one at any time.I felt that the story was well built and envolving.
Leaving a curiosity for the rest of the trilogy.I would be open to reading more books by this author if there were like this one.
2 stars :/It's not that I didn't like it , or that there is something really annoying or bad with the book but.....I found the stories that actually dragged the story .. boring ?Spoilers below - Warning :1. (view spoiler)[ So, she resists him in all the book with the ''I'm married'' blabla bla bla, and suddenly, just okay. Just because . (hide spoiler)]2. (view spoiler)[ All this Susan drama so that Lucky can resolve it in 5 minutes of bluff.Same with little Alvin. (hide spoiler)]and while not b
boring ?Spoilers below - Warning :1.
(view spoiler)[ So, she resists him in all the book with the ''I'm married'' blabla bla bla, and suddenly, just okay.
(view spoiler)[ All this Susan drama so that Lucky can resolve it in 5 minutes of bluff.Same with little Alvin.
(hide spoiler)]and while not boring ....3.
(view spoiler)[ I know that Tanya's death is the story of next book but I don't want to read this happening in-that-moment.
You can't let us love a character Sanda Brown, and have her killed, and not for the sake of this book, but for the next one coming.
(hide spoiler)]
(hide spoiler)]
Just pass on this early Sandra Brown book.
I have read more current books by Ms. Brown and have loved them all, but I received this book in a giveaway and felt compelled to read and review it.
Being written some 20-odd years ago, you can tell how her writing style has finessed to what it is today.
Texas Lucky is unbelievable most of the time.
The secondary characters make this book readable as the whole storyline is basically unbelievable.
I am a huge Brown fan but I truly did not enjoy this book...or writing this review :(
