https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/581910.Jungle_Pilot
Most of the book is devoted to Nate's process of fully surrendering to God's call on his life, and the various places this call took him; the last couple of chapters tell the story of Operation Auca and its aftermath.
I really appreciated Nate's take on dating and marriage decisions, and mentally bookmarked them for future conversations.
Though it is not geared towards children, this book was very readable for my son and he enjoyed it thoroughly; he now considers Nate Saint one of his heroes of the faith.
I wouldn’t hesitate to recommend this one, I think every Christian should read it. It was neat for me to get the perspective on Nate Saint’s life after having read so much about Jim Elliot all my life. It was another side to the story of the 5 martyred missionaries. I appreciated the epilogue at the end by Stephen B. Saint and in finding out what happened after that fateful day up until the early 21st century.
He also saw that if he could obey Christ and be used by Him so could the rest of us.
Hitt starts the book with a story from Saints mission aviation days then moves back and chronicles his life.
It’s so encouraging to see him struggle with the same temptations we do and have victory over them through his faith.
It’s also convicting because he shows us that that could be our life too if we choose to obey as well.
Saint liked writing and wrote in a fascinating first-person narration style.
So every time he quotes one of Saints letters it sounds like the narrator has just switched tenses.
Jungle Pilot tells of the ministry of Nate Saint and his wife Marj in Ecuador.
Aviation literally brought life-saving changes to the jungles of Ecuador; Nate flew doctors into the jungle and critical patients out.
Just like Through Gates of Splendor references Jim Elliot’s journals, Jungle Pilot does the same with Nate Saint’s.
Elisabeth Elliot and Rachel Saint, Nate's sister, continued the mission efforts to the Huaorani, which eventually came to fruition.
Many of the Huaorani gave their lives to Christ, including those who killed Nate, Jim, Pete, Roger, and Ed.Though cut short, the lives of these missionaries were filled with purpose, obedience, and adventure.
This definitely goes down as one of my favorite books of all time. A perfect read for this season of my life! I would highly recommend it to anyone joining the mission field that Nate Saint and others like him pioneered. His conviction and full trust in God, even to death, is truly inspiring.
You might even find the story fairy familiar, having already been most popularly told in Elizabeth Elliot's Through the Gates of Splendor (1957), which was even turned into a comic book for Christian kids.In order to get a full spectrum on the impact of Christian missionaries on native societies, it would be interesting to read Jungle Pilot and then read Barbara Kingsolver's The Poisonwood Bible (Harper; 1998).
But then again, there is one glaring bad thing that the aptly named Nate Saint did that does actually make him immoral, although this is not treated as immoral in the book (written by a Christian).
Engineers, missionary pilots, and aviation junkies would especially love this book.Nate's reflective thoughts on one's gifts and the giving of one's life to the cause of Christ, beginning on p.
157, give pause to reflection and conviction.“People who do not know the Lord ask why in the world we waste our lives as missionaries.
They forget that they too are expending their lives … and when the bubble has burst, they will have nothing of eternal significance to show for the years they have wasted.” -- NS
This is the biography of Nate Saint, a Missionary who travelled around by plane, who was murdered in
Every book written on the lives of the 5 missionaries who went to Ecuador to save a people for Jesus, I will read.
I love those men and what they did for Jesus and how they did it.
They went in their Faith and did not do anything to harm those people, and that is what they needed and that is what we all need.
Peace, Love...these men didn't see the fruit of their work on earth, but their work is still effecting the world for Jesus.
Jesus is about Love which will bring peace to all who accept HIM.
I've watched the movie, "End of the Spear", which relies this same story but not in as much detail.This book came to me as a freebie and has sat on my shelf for way to long.
Had I realized it was the extended story of Nate Saint, the missionary from the "End of the Spear" movie, I would have read it sooner.I enjoyed reading about Nate Saint's life growing up, about his stint in the military, his goals, and his ultimate career.
I want to thank all the people who had the forethought of keeping Nate's letters so they could later be shared with the public.This is an inspirational story that all Christians should read.
I have been interested in the story of the 5 men who were killed by the Aucas for some years, and have read much about them, but this book has been sitting on my shelf for years, unread.
Very gripping story about a man who was flawed, who served as a soldier and then as a missionary, and ultimately, gave his life in effort to bring Christ to the Indians in Ecuador.
It is SUCH a powerful life testimony, and all that happened in the life of the Auca tribe after the men were killed--is an amazing testimony of God's power and mercy.
This book fleshes out the real life of Nate Saint, the Christian missionary who was martyred in Ecuador along with Jim Elliot and two other missionaries.I have watched "End of the Spear" based on the book by Steve Saint, Nate's son.
I have read a great deal about Jim Eliot.
And I have been a past supporter of Missionary Aviation Fellowship (www.maf.org).
All of these have reinforced my very high opinion of the courage and bravery and ingenuity of these young American missionaries.
Many people know the story of the five missionaries martyred in Ecuador through the story of Jim Elliot and his story is gripping and valuable to be sure.
But too few people are familiar with the other men involved in the incident and what brought them to that place.
This book does a fantastic job telling the story of Nate Saint's life, both his growth as a Christian and his involvement in missions aviation.
His ingenuity and courage left an indelible imprint on the field of missions and this look into his life will bear an impact on any who take time to read it.
Much of the book comes directly from letters and logs of Nate Saint which gave me a sense of rather direct contact with him. I had read _End of the Spear_ by Nate's son, Steve Saint which was about Steve's experience in Ecuador, but also contained what Steve learned about his father's death. _Jungle Pilot_ was about Nate Saint's life and dedication to mission and to family and most of all to God.
"Jungle Pilot" is about the life of Nate Saint who is one of the five missionaries that was killed in Ecuador along with Jim Elliot. They made a movie about these missionaries and how they were martyred called "The End of the Spear". The srory of his life was amazing; how God worked through his life and his death. It was an encouragement and a reminder that all we need to do is put our entire trust and faith in Him; to surrender our lives to His will. Oh to have faith like these people!
The version I read is Jungle Pilot: The Life and Witness of Nate Saint, possibly the first edition (1959). This work gives insight into Nate Saint, his life, his preparation for the mission field, and his dedication to his Lord. The story moved me and I had to keep turning pages, even though I knew how it would end. For those who enjoy inspirational biographies, add this one to your list.
My favorite love story of all times! I love the stories of lives that were shared. I love the young women who gave all that they could give to love and care for their bold, daring young husbands. I love the survivor instincts in the lives of the children who are continuing to add to the legacy that their parents started!!!
Enrapturing testimony and down-to-earth prose, this biography delivers a detailed account of the life and work of missionary Nate Saint. Though Hitt sometimes hints at borderline legalism, I personally found Saint's devotion to God as laudable and inspiring. Some of his observations resound stronger than some sermons I've heard as well.
Great read and I found the book to be a very authentic reflection on the amazing life and calling of Nate Saint. Gods providence witnessed in his testimony and the ultimate sacrifice paid for the great commission was hugely inspirational.
got this one as a Sunday school prize many years ago. An inspirational record of those daring, fearless and faithful missionaries who risk everything to spread the greatest story ever told to the ends of the earth.
This book is a book on my favorite martyr. He gave up so much for the people who ended up killing him, so much that a few years later they became Christians and even ended up baptizing Nate's children. I recommend this book to anyone who likes reading christian biographies!
As someone who has lived on the mission field, this book was especially inspiring.
I seen the movie and its based on a true story. A very interesting story about a families interactions with some indians in the rainforest.
I kept this book in my cargo pocket for flights over Turkey. It made me realize how how important is effective communication.
This book was so near and dear to my heart. Anyone interested in flying or missions needs to read it.
Read this book about 3 or 4 years ago. Heart wrenching bio...
GREAT content. It is just written with a little older wording, so it takes a bit more concentration to really comprehend all that is being said.
Loved it! Everyone always tells of Jim Eliot, but what about the little known pilot, Nate Saint. Well, here's another side of the story of those martyred in Equador.
Loved, loved, loved it. Josiah and I both did. Deeply inspiring.
0121
