https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74034.Amusing_Ourselves_to_Death
What Huxley feared was that there would be no reason to ban a book, for there would be no one who wanted to read one.
I guess that is hardly surprising, except, of course, that Huxley’s point does seem to be that one should at least question a world in which we amuse ourselves to the point of being incapable of thinking.This book could easily have been a manifesto calling on all Americans to unplug their television sets and, in true rock star fashion, throw them out of the window.
This book is about the possibility that Huxley was right.’ Through an analyzation of historic American society juxtaposed with modern examples of politics, education, religion and general society, Postman examines alterations in American culture through our shift from print based media to visual based media.’It is my intention to show that a great media-metaphor shift has taken place in America, with the result that the content of much of our public discourse has become dangerous nonsense….[W]e do not measure a culture by its output of undisguised trivialities but by what it claims as significant.
Postman argues that visual media makes the image more important to its receiver than the actual message, and that television is a passive activity instead of an activity like reading that requires some work and thought by the reader.
That is to say, Americans only knew their leaders by their public positions, their arguments, and their knowledge as codified by the printed word.Today we don't know our leaders by their words so much as by their faces - thanks to the modern monopoly of visual media - the television and internet.
Visual media has such a monopoly in modern America that many Americans don't end up voting for leaders whose knowledge and reasoning appeal to them, but for those who make them feel a certain way.
It explained (to me, at least) why so many Trump voters cannot articulate the political philosophies that convinced them to vote for him, but rather they point out how he made them feel.
And I suppose it was prescient of you to be so right way back in 1985 when you wrote this book.But having said that, I'm not sure what else to add.
Arnold Schwarzenegger is governor of the state I live in.
I read books.
All of my friends read books.
I was stricken at the death of Max, George Clooney's potbellied pig (and probably the living creature who spent most time in bed with George, when you think about it).
I love "The Tool Academy".I guess what I'm saying is that, even though your analysis may have been spot on, it still left me with one major question unanswered.So what?
The Internet has been a massive disruptive force to all other forms of media which came before it, including books, news, music, film, and of course, Television.
However, I might argue that there is not only a quantitative, but a qualitative difference in the mass use of television and the Internet.
Even if you do prefer television, it is possible to find a more specific thing which is catered to your tastes, instead of one which is blandly popular to the masses and broadcast in prime-time.
The Internet is larger and provides more diversity than television, but it is also more segmented.
I think this was my introduction to Postman and I read this book in a day; it's 163 pages.
Yes, I like to read, but even so back then with two little kids, I rarely read that much in month much less a day!
Like many parents, I suppose, I figured, 'what was the harm?' Not after I read this book.
There's no doubt in my mind that it's because of changes we made in our home then, that our daughters are the good students and strong readers they are today.Thanks Neil!P.S. And I love the cover picture!* There are better sources for finding out what is actually going on in the world than the nightly network news.
If someone held a gun to my head and asked for a precise and concise definition of irony (it could happen!), I would say only this: Neil Postman died two days before Arnold Schwarzenegger was elected governor -thus narrowly missing out on the single best example of what he was screaming about all those years ago.
Postman delivers a passioned polemic about the entertain-at-any-cost ethos of our current culture, and how the irrestible siren song of triviality is more dangerous to our democracy than any demagogue's propaganda.
Here he is in an interview describing television as the great destroyer of context: “Television is a medium which lacks a because.
Plus, there was this: "Sorry, but we have to cut you short to go to a commercial break."Postman's point in Amusing Ourselves to Death is that the TV has turned public discourse into little more than entertainment.
To this quote and many others from the book, I say, True enough: "How often does it occur that information provided you on morning radio or television, or in the morning newspaper, causes you to alter your plans for the day, or to take some action you would not otherwise have taken, or provides insight into some problem you are required to solve?
The medium of the written word, BY ITS NATURE, is one that involves logical argument, expository meaning and truth.
The ascendance of television has displaced writing and is creating a culture that is focused on entertainment rather than meaning and that is a bad thing.Useful points first: 1.
He alludes to the past several times, in particular, to Plato, in arguments where he attempts to talk about the importance of writing.
Yet we know most of television is more like literature than like logical argument, leaving aside news talk TV which seems to have very mixed motives.
The point of the book is about how the advent of television influenced public discourse and politics.
The book speaks at length about pre-television society in America, and how their worldview was different from a modern one.
The telegraph made it possible to receive information that was remote, without context and completely irrelevant to a person's daily life.You can see that the trends the author described have grown even more pronounced with the advent of the Internet.
Public society has indeed been changed by that technological advance, but I think we now have a greater ability to narrow our focus, and to filter out information that is meaningless to us.
There's a good feeling you get when you read a book that accurately criticizes something that needs it.
If you've ever felt like watching TV was a waste of time, this book will impart such a feeling.Not to mention, providing an arsenal of reasons why TV is a general waste of time.Why, just two days ago my 3rd grade students asked me why the 4th graders at our school always get to watch videos in class and we don't.With Postman's support in my back pocket I explained that TV was nothing more than entertainment.
I don't know how many commentaries in our culture it could be said to be more relevant now than when they were written 25 years ago, but this one can.
Television's defining role has simply been replaced by stimuli from many different directions.
Did He not use the format available to Him when He walked the earth, even with all of their limitations?
He told stories in a culture that told stories.
He celebrated festivals in a culture that celebrated festivals.
He used the tools available to foment change, and some encouragement in this direction would have been nice.
That’s when this book was written, so for every rant author Neil Postman made against television, I was wondering, “What would he say now?” He lived till 2003, and a Google search will show you that he railed against the Internet, too, but he never lived to see the rise of social media and texting.
That is why, he argues, Huxley’s dystopian vision turned out to be much more prophetic, at least in the U.S., than Orwell’s.One of Dr. Postman’s biggest problems with television is its detrimental effect on literacy.
So if television dumbed us down, is the Internet, which requires some reading, smartening us back up?
Orwell believed the government would hide the truth, ban books, and in essence dominate people.
Huxley believed people would have access to so much information they would not know what truth is and there would be so much entertainment no one would read.Huxley was right.Postman's work is an extended analysis of television.
On one hand, we are addicted to smartphones and can get entertainment always and anywhere (Huxley's soma).
If anyone has any contemporary books that bring Postman (and Ellul, who I am surprised was not referenced) up to date, that would be great.
It’s hard to over-exaggerate the prescient nature of this book.
Mr. Postman speaks to so much more.
He speaks to the very nature of our social tapestry.
I found his off-hand remark that he thinks computers are an over-estimated technology as funny in light of the ubiquitous nature of the microchip today.
While he has no way of speaking to the constantly morphing technological environs that we dwell in today, this book is an excellent point of departure to begin to see past the screen and perhaps understand the hidden cultural forces at play today.
And then I was like double cool cuz I know I'm not really going to do anything with the information in this book so I tossed it aside, congratulated myself for another adventure in nonfiction and moved on.I do think about this book sometimes when I'm listening to yet another podcast on the mating habits of ear mites in cats or the failing economy of a country I've never heard of and all of a sudden it occurs to me that I'm not going to do anything with either bits of info and I forward the circle thingy, triangle and give a little nod to Mr. Postman and his wise words.
Dalam buku ini, penulis menyingkap bagaimana perubahan demi perubahan berlaku terhadap kaedah dan keupayaan rakyat Amerika Syarikat mencerap ilmu pengetahuan.Pada abad ke-17, kadar celik huruf rakyat lelaki di Massachusetts misalnya begitu tinggi sekitar 89-95% dan 62% bagi kaum wanita.
Kesannya, kecelaruan mula mengambil tempat.Kata penulis, hiburan pada tahap maksimum yang dibangkitkan oleh Aldous Huxley inilah yang sedang meresap masuk ke dalam minda masyarakat pada hari ini melalui media massa.
Percambahan ilmu rakyat juga dicantas oleh pemerintah dan rakyat sendiri sedar bahawa mereka perlu bangkit menentang kebobrokan pemerintah tersebut.Bagi melihat bagaimana masyarakat Athens berubah (pada 5 B.C.) daripada ilmu yang disampaikan daripada mulut ke mulut lalu berpindah melalui penulisan, penulis menyarankan pembaca untuk menelaah karangan-karangan Plato.
This book makes two good points: the media used to communicate affects the nature of the communication, and much of modern communication on serious matters is frivolous.That covers the first part of the book.
The details of the rant are not worth covering, but I do think that Postman misses some important points.
See your favorite social network for more details.A better approach than Postman's, which declares that TV is bad and text is good, is to realize that different communication mediums have different strengths and weaknesses.
to pay attention to no concept, no character, and no problem for more than a few seconds at a time." He goes on to say that the assumptions controlling a news show are "that bite-sized is best, that complexity must be avoided, that nuances are dispensable, that qualifications impede the simple message, that visual stimulation is a substitute for thought, and that verbal precision is an anachronism." When a television show is in process, it is very nearly impermissible to say, "Let me think about that" or "I don't know" or "What do you mean when you say .
“What Orwell feared was those who would ban books.
What Huxley feared was that there would be no reason to ban a book, for there would be no one who wanted to read one.
Orwell feared that the truth would be concealed from us.
Huxley feared that the truth would be drowned in a sea of irrelevance.
Orwell feared we would become a captive culture.
In Brave New World, they are controlled by inflicting pleasure.
In short, Orwell feared that what we hate will ruin us.
Huxley feared that what we love will ruin us.
Definitely one of the most important books I ever read in my life!
It is a book that was written in 1985 but it is talking about the major problem we are having to day when it come to technology when used as a source of information.
The book also shows how everything is becoming a show business, from religion, to politics, to science!
The book had a prophecy about the impact of entertainment as a major form of aggression, not by governments but by ourselves..
regardless of the form ...Everything lost its value..
religion, death, life, real news, and most importantly education ...
Postman posits that our current access to information, especially when presented through images and video, has lulled us into a complacent world, much like that of Brave New World, as opposed to the then-current concern regarding the dystopia of 1984: "What Orwell feared were those who would ban books.
Photography converted us into a society where seeing, as opposed to reading, was believing - taking the static image of a moment in time as a constant truth.
"The result of all this is that Americans are the best entertained and quite likely the least well-informed people in the Western world".
Just as today there is a general public that seems only concerned with the latest sports or american idol results, but there are still a significant number of people capable of following a complex political discussion, or reasoning through a logical argument.
I would have to see more evidence that the average person back then was really different than the average person today to fully accept the author's argument.In my opinion, the Internet (blogs and wikis) provides the greatest tool we have for putting context back into our discussions about news and politics.
It has made us a trivial, unserious people; the polar opposites of the learned and thoughtful ones who built the foundation of the rational societies we inhabit today.
We have effectively sacrificed rationality on the altar of enjoyment, and are merely presiding over a crumbling edifice of other peoples' good ideas.
In fact, for a book ostensibly meant to decry the displacement by entertainment of all other human pursuits, he subtly reveals that he's actually a hilarious writer.I'm several decades late to this incredible book but it feels as relevant as it must have been then, perhaps even more so.
Postman wants us to realize that there is something inherently inferior about the information we consume through visual media.
The result is the unreality we find ourselves in, one where no one can recall the last time they actually DID anything with the information they were given from the television.
You realize that the last thing we have to fear is a malicious Orwellian news industry, because what we have is so much worse: culture incentivized to be as shallow, fabricated and captivating as possible, at the expense of what is actually real or true or meaningful.
I think this a must-read for everyone today.
This book was written focusing on television but the message it is trying to convey is even more relevant with the social media today.
The book does a great job of analysing different aspects of the impact of this "Age of Show Business" with examples.
To quote one of them - "When a population becomes distracted by trivia, when cultural life is redefined as a perpetual round of entertainments, when serious public conversation becomes a form of baby-talk, when, in short, a people become an audience and their public business a vaudeville act, then a nation finds itself at risk; culture-death is a clear possibility"
Wow, what a read! This is a book that everyone should read. Postman has diagnosed the problem that most of us didn't even know existed. The trouble is there really is no easy cure. Each person must act upon his solution individually and take responsibility for himself and his family.I have never given so much thought to how to educate my children as I have in the past twenty-four hours that I have been reading this book.
Second Reading
Note to self: It's time to read Brave New World again...Despite having been published in 1985 on a topic (media) that is currently changing faster than ever before and has come light years (almost literally) since its release, this is a book well worth reading for anyone interested in social thought, politics, media, constructive analysis of our society, or fomenting revolution among the plebeian masses.Beginning with a very interesting scholarly consideration of how a medium shapes its content (smoke signals are not conducive to philosophical arguments; in oral cultures, proverbs are essential means of condensing and passing on information) Postman proceeds to examine how the printed word, "typography", helped to shape and direct American culture from the time of the earliest pilgrims through the mid- to late-eighteenth century and the advent of first, the telegraph, and then, the photograph.The printed word, primarily books, provides us with a logical, linear, analytical method of communication.
Postman writes with an impressive command of the English language and eye-opening contextual insight.
The arguments themselves are tight and progress logically from point to point.
Nevertheless, Amusing Ourselves to Death proved itself to contain concise, well-researched, and logically organized information on an important subject.
Theirs was a “language” that denied interconnectedness, proceeded without context, argued the irrelevance of history, explained nothing, and offered fascination in place of complexity and coherence.
Theirs was a duet of image and instance, and together they played the tune of a new kind of public discourse in America.(See what I mean by “impressive command of the English language”?)
