https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3447.In_the_Lake_of_the_Woods
What O’Brien has created with Lake is a blurry, unfocused story to mimic the blurry, unfocused nature of things – childhood, marriage, war, life.
He goes to Vietnam where the events are covered up, half-real, and like everything else, a contorted magic trick for the viewing public.
The war, like his father, like his childhood and pretty much everything, is arranged to appear to the world to be something different.
Everything we think we know is really just a product of the information we’re given.
And the questions you should be asking when you’re done reading is not “did he kill her?” That’s just the magic trick.
I could easily go back to the beginning and read it for a third time right now.
It's a book that demonstrates the shattering of a psyche that was fragile to begin with.
Within that vehicle lies the horror of the My Lai massacre If the reader is a "my country right or wrong" sort of person, then this book is going to shatter a lot of illusions about war and country.
If the reader is someone who likes the exploration of relationships, psyches, souls and the forces that damage those areas of life, then this is the book.
Through flashbacks, we learn all about John, and the more we know, the less we like him.In early November he began spying on her.
I found it interesting that, though this book predates Gone Girl by almost two decades, there's that similar unsettling vibe of an unlikable man who has trouble working up a public display of grief over his missing wife.
it might help to start acting like a husband.
Anyway, I found this to be quite a page-turner, but was ultimately left unsatisfied.Then there was the problem of timing.A really creepy guy who loses an election, and may or may not have murdered his pretty blond wife?Dun-dun-duhn!Better run, Heidi!
IN THE LAKE OF THE WOODS is one of the most original thrillers you will ever read. 14 years later, I still think about how powerful this book was.
As in The Things They Carried, O'Brien tells a riveting story that reverses back on itself multiple times, and also directly addresses the dilemma of storytelling, and the blurred lines between fiction, non-fiction, and truth.
Alternating chapters also hypothesize how events may have played out, while others present pieces of evidence as decontextualized quotes, both from characters testifying about the events in the story, and passages from real world biographies of major political figures and other works on relevant non-fiction.
This further problematizes the fiction/non-fiction line, as the narrator seems to have much in common with the author, but the other characters are supposedly creations of his imagination.
Facts are simple and facts are straightFacts are lazy and facts are lateFacts all come with points of viewFacts don't do what I want them toFacts just twist the truth aroundFacts are living turned inside out...I'm still waiting...I'm still waiting...I'm still waiting...--Brian Eno and David ByrneTim O'Brien is a magician and so in a lot of ways he's like Sorcerer, John Wade from In the Lake of the Woods, but instead of smoke and mirrors O'Brien uses words to tell true stories that never happened.
He felt it winding through his own arteries, something vile and slippery like heavy black oil in a crankcase … A period of dark time went by, maybe an hour, maybe more … There were flies now – a low droning buzz that swelled up from somewhere deep inside the village.… and on it went.Some of the notes are extended first-person ruminations, almost confessional in nature, about the author's experiences in Vietnam, his memories many years later, of those experiences, his fading memories, things he thinks he remembers, but isn't sure that he does.The protagonists?
The open air had been nothing but a medium of transit, a place for rooms to exist.The theme "you can't ever go home again" prevails infuriatingly throughout the writing, cementing the fact that, here in this story, you really can't go home again.Normally I hate fiction that leaves the reader without closure or an ending.
But it's different with this book and its open ending and lack of closure and lack of subtlety, all because it's Tim O'Brien (better known for his memoir of his experience in the Vietnam War, The Things They Carried).
Kathy's husband, John, recently lost a primary election to become Minnesota's Democratic candidate for the U.S. Senate after his involvement in the My Lai Massacre in Vietnam was revealed to the public.I hated the structure of the book.
I didn't care what happened to John, either.I hated John (the main character).
I didn't care for his wife Kathy (the missing woman).
I hated the story itself, I didn't care about anything that was happening to them.
Kathy, the missing wife, is not developed as a character enough nor is their marriage compelling enough to induce our interest in their fate as a couple or as individuals.
Busy with his career, John thinks that it is not yet the right time or maybe there is a deeper reason: his unhappy childhood or the secret of what happened in Vietnam.
How do we choose which ones to tell and which ones to keep to ourselves?"Kill Jesus!" is what John shouts in his dream.
But here, reading was a breeze and totally enjoyable because of its fresh approach and it leaves you a space to think: interpret the story and choose the ending that you want to believe happened.Thanks J, S, and T.
It’s all here: Alcoholism; Abortion; Secrets; Magic; Politics; Death; Gambling; Vietnam; Suicide; Infidelity; Mystery; Murder; the Northwest Angle and More.
He saw a little boy doing magic.
Just once in his life: tell everything.
Are we so cynical, so sophisticated as to write off even the chance of happy endings?For me, any book that is about Vietnam is about a part of my life that is a mystery, an unknown.
It would be easy to say “the horror that I fortunately missed” but should I write off the chance of a happy ending?
Can a war have a happy ending?
You know who would love this book?
Tim O’Brien only spent one year in Vietnam.
My first thought was ‘shit, that’s like me writing five books about that year in high school I worked at Radio Shack.’ There are probably a lot of similarities between Vietnam and Radio Shack, so many in fact that I need not list them here.
The nature of memory, the secrets that we keep even from ourselves, the possibility of every really knowing another human being or even your own mind.
You know who would hate this book?
As a child John was an illusionist and as an adult politician he honed these skills.Seeking solace from defeat, John and his wife Kathy vacation in the deep Minnesota woods where John's tether to reality snaps.
Mentally disorganized and rapidly deteriorating, he vaguely remembers the possibility of walking down the hall to his wife's bedroom with another pot of boiling water...then awakens the next day to find her gone.O'Brien is masterful in his ability to use the dark woods as a metaphor regarding inner secrets and demons, blending illusion with reality as we walk the slippery path of insanity with John in his search for truth.five stars for this one!
It is by the nature of the angle, sun to earth, that the seasons are made, and that the waters of the lake change color by the season, blue going to gray and then to white and then back again to blue.
And here in a corner of John Wade's imagination, where things neither live nor die, Kathy stares up at him.There's also a lot of ambiguity in the story, by meticulous intent.I'm still not sure how much of the story was "real" and how much was speculation on the part of the unnamed narrator, which made me consider the realness of fiction and the fiction in fact just as the characters do.
I like to think that my head contains somewhat original thoughts.
The process of transferring those thoughts into coherently structured paragraphs has always been a challenge for me.
It had the potential to be a jumbled, confusing mess of a novel, but O'Brien deftly preserves a perfect balance between mystery and romance.
Deeply and carefully woven into the narrative is a sense of dread, especially the characters' relation to their northern Minnesotan surroundings.
The lake is its own unique character.
This is a novel that must not only be read, but experienced.
Man, I'm just not good with words, not as much as I'd like to.)

This is Exhibit A for the concept of "unreliable narrator" - rather than dropping clues along the way to revealing the answer to a mystery (in this case, why and how Kathy Wade, wife of recently disgraced politician John Wade, disappeared), In the Lake of the Woods draws out all of the possible hypotheses for the disappearance, gives evidence to back each one up - and then never gives you a definite resolution. It's a great use of literary technique, and a truly compelling read.
Whoa. This book is deep. It deserves the awards it has won. I don't know what it is about O'Brien's novels but they have a way of speaking to me, getting me in the gut. This book had the same effect. It's truly a disturbing story on so many levels. It's a story about the human condition and the big bag of mess that goes with living and dying.
So far I'm intrigued and also horrified at the flash backs descriptions of the war in Vietnam that is revealed through the main protagonist!
the protagonist handle it?...the reader make sense of it???It is a book full of meaning and hidden meaning, multilayered, complex, raw, intense, yet coated with an ever burning need to be accepted, recognized and loved!
I would recommend it to anyone with an interest in the human spirit's basic survival tactics under duress and what depravity and horrific events can do to the human mental functions under extreme conditions.It is a book that will haunt you and awaken you at the same time!
You read a book like In the Lake of the Woods, and you might think you're pretty stable by comparison.
"Your brother got me a book about a kid choking on donuts..." "--In the first couple pages, no less!" I felt a strong connection to all the characters in Skippy.
It's hard to imagine feeling a stronger connection to anyone on the written page, but O'Brien did it.
But I feel like I was given the opportunity to sit with them in order that I might somehow come out of it a better person.
While Denis Johnson's 'Tree of Smoke' may be the single best American novel about the Vietnam war, Tim O'Brien, who has made writing 'Nam stories into something of a cottage industry, has put out three terrific books that, taken as a whole, achieve something far more compelling and significant.
Unlike Johnson, O'Brien is a Vietnam veteran, and it shows - not in portraying the details of the wartime experience, which Johnson nails just as accurately, or even in the moral ambiguities of war, but rather in the very specific ways that it annihilates the moral compass and makes men go mad.
A depressing book about two unhappy people whose marriage has been disintegrating daily due to the psychological problems of both.
PTSD over the Vietnam war's My Lai massacre is seemingly to blame for the downward spiral of the lives of the couple, but this is obviously not the entire cause, as both participants have other psychological problems.
This is a book I would not have read unless it had been chosen as the BOTM for October in the Goodreads Psychological Thrillers Group.
It is psychological, all right, but NO THRILLER!
iiiiinteresting. I took ages to actually finish this book--I read several books in between--but still enjoyable in all.
I was born in a community on the northern shore of The Lake of the Woods, but this story could not possibly be set in that wilderness!
A wild, exhilarating ride for the mind and the senses!It’s a very personal story of a veteran of the Vietnam War who, after the war, decided to serve his country as a politician.
This story packed a big punch and, for me, the greatest impact was the setting.
I lived there, near The Lake of the Woods, when this fictitious story took place.
One of the saddest books I have ever read about a man who did terrible things, cannot forgive himself for them and ruins his own life and his wife's too because of it. Or maybe its about a sociopath who was always capable of terrible things and just needed a war to draw them out. It's a little shaggy around the edges, not as clean as Tim O'Brien's best book 'The Things They Carried" but still the work of a master storyteller obsessed by the subjects of pain, grief, memory and running away from all of it.
John has struggled with finding love and attention throughout his life.
MAJOR DISLIKE: The long and profoundly disturbing sections detailing war atrocities, specifically mutilation of women and children.
I knew he was struggling with PTSD and I'm not trying to downplay that, I appreciate that O'Brien showed the way soldiers (especially in this case) have to assimilate back into civilian life.
It truly felt like a really exploitative way to add to the mystery of this lady and I really had a problem with it.
Also, these highly graphic details are placed in the middle, so you are already invested in the story and do want to see where it pans out.
I have known this to be true since the first time I read "The Things They Carried," and nothing of his has ever changed my mind on that.There are some slow places in this novel, for sure, places where his elegant prose runs away from my attention, but that's a matter of a paragraph every now and then, and it wouldn't have been bothersome at all, except that the book's driving force was so driving, I just wanted it to keep going.
It's a novel about love, evil, obsession, memory, guilt, complicity, and the improbability of ever really knowing someone who doesn't want to be known, but above all it's O'Brien's attempt to come to grips with the My Lai Massacre.
He creates an obsessed narrator who can't let go of the mysterious disappearance of Kathleen Wade, whose husband John was humiliated in a Senatorial campaign after his careful attempts to cover up his role in the slaughter of a village of Vietnamese civilians prove ineffective.
Wade was a magician, and while he was unable to vanish the My Lai Massacre he may well have vanished his wife.
John Wade, running for the U.S. senate, receives a crushing defeat when a dark secret he has kept hidden for nearly twenty years, suddenly sees the light.
Wade and his wife flee to the deep woods of northern Minnesota, to escape the public eye and try to repair and renew their lives.
Shortly after arriving, his wife mysteriously disappears from their lakeside cabin.This is a dark and disturbing tale, especially when the reader discovers, that Wade's secret, was that he was a young soldier, involved in the My Lai massacre, told in a series of horrifying flashbacks.The story becomes a tangle of mystery, illusion and secrets, with the Lake of the Woods being a perfect backdrop, for these deceptive and destructive themes.
And of course, there's our (unreliable?) footnote/authorial narrator, who sticks himself in and seems so truthful but confesses to having secrets and knowing about deception, not unlike the narrator Tim in TTTC.
I still need to process all the recurring ideas running through the book and what they mean to me beyond the text, but I'm not sure I'll ever have answers so here they are: - Magic/disappearing/tricks/the mirror box/his Sorcerer title: Did John Wade use all this to hide from what happened to him, hide who he was?
