https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34309.Silver_Wedding
Initially, I did find it very patchy reading I found the first main character, Anna difficult to bond with, because she was so very emotionally awkward and repressed, she redeemed herself tidily however and I became quite fond of her as well as several other characters.
One of my favourite characters/stories was that of Brenden, Anna's brother and my absolute least favourite was Helen, their train wreck of a sister.
So, in a way, it is almost like reading a series of short stories.
This was a classic Maeve Binchy - a story told from several people’s viewpoints. It was a rather sad story of a celebration of a 25th wedding anniversary culminating after revelations of years of secrets and ensuing unhappiness - between friends, between parents and children, between siblings, between husbands and wives.Not my favourite Maeve Binchy, but since she passed away several years ago and the books I haven’t read of hers are now necessarily limited, I’ll take whatever I can get! 3.5★
Each chapter focuses on a different character, with the last chapter bringing them all together for a silver wedding anniversary celebration. It was almost more like a series of related short stories than one novel. I love a good character story, and in that Binchy definitely delivered.
Then we follow Maureen and Frank (maid of honor and best man at Desmond and Deirdre's wedding) and finally Deirdre.
The last portion is on the silver wedding celebration itself.So my favorite character chapters were definitely Anna, Desmond, Father Hurley, and Maureen.Anna is the eldest of the children and you get to read about her romance that is not everything she hopes it to be.
He works at a store that his best friend runs (Frank) and realizes that he is going to keep getting shuffled around and is trying to figure out what his dream is.
The characters of this story all put forth one view of their lives to others around them ... as you read each chapter based on a different character, you find out the real story. In the end you get the feeling that many of them are beginning to realize that "projecting the right image" isn't as important as living a life you can be happy with and in.
Just ok, not her best work. most of the characters not very likable, started out well but grew more boring toward the end. I was not invested enough to care what happened anyway.
People absolutely fascinate me; that's one reason I love my work as a vocational rehabilitation counselor.
I love it when I know a friend so well that I can tell in advance what will make him laugh or how she will react in a given situation.
Each chapter focuses on a different person who will attend the party: the couple's three children, the maid of honor, the best man, and the priest who said the wedding.
We also see how outsiders,, such as the priest and the friends, impact those roles.I'm not doing the best job of reviewing this one, I know.
Anna, their oldest, believes that there needs to be a big party to celebrate the occasion - but knows she'll be the one to do all the work to plan it.
Unlike the other books of hers I've read, this one is set in England instead of Ireland.
In this one, each character has a chapter which develops their past and the receipt of the invitation to the party.
The book ends with the final chapter being the party.
I wasn't sure what to expect with the party, but was satisifed with the way it all pulled together.
Maeve Binchy writes of people whose lives would never touch mine.
I can't decide if her writing is old-fashioned or maybe it's the topics she picks to write about.
And I can't stop reading, so eager to know how it all turns out.In this book, people have been living lives of lies -- don't we all?
-- and it all comes to a head when the silver wedding anniversary of a couple with three children is coming up.
I sure hope if and when my silver wedding anniversary comes up, I've lived a better life!
I do just adore the way that Maeve Binchy can pick you up and envelop you into the lives of a bunch of people who are doing nothing except organising a 25th wedding anniversary, but in the most compulsive fashion!
Marvel Binchy has a strange way of writing.
Silver Wedding is about the Silver Wedding of Deidre and Desmond Doyle.
She writes in the point of view of her three children Anna, Helen and Brandon.
Desmond Doyle's best friend Frank who he travelled to England with from Ireland and Deidres best friend I would categorise this book as a satire.The characters are all friends and family of the Doyle's.The book was well written but it got a bit boring.
It wasn't a book I would pick up and not be able to put down, I enjoyed it but I know Marge Binchy has written better.I would recommend other books written by Marge Binchy but maybe not this one.
Written from each individuals point of view. Enlightening. Had a few good chuckles to tell Shanna about. She's one of my few quirky authors!
good characterzatiion
As the Doyles prepare to commemorate the twenty-five years of marriage they have shared, their closest family and friends gather around them in remembrance of such a happy time.
Everyone has certainly come to congratulate the happy couple, but each person seems to have also brought their own personal baggage to the party.First to arrive are the three Doyle children: Anna, Helen, and Brendan.
Father James Hurley - the priest who married the couple - arrives to the silver anniversary carrying his own guilty family secret.Yet it is her parents silver anniversary that will prove to be a time of ultimate transformation for the Doyles' eldest daughter, Anna.
I just got so bored by the characters, especially Anna, she’s overtly awkward. What’s wrong Maeve? I saved this book from the bin anyways, nothing to complain in retrospect.
Like all Binchy's books, or at least all of them that I've read, this one is steeped in the emotions -- the blessing and the curse -- of friendship and family.
The intertwined stories of Desmond and Deirdre Doyle, their three children, the man and woman who were best man and maid of honor at their wedding, and the priest who married them each illustrate different aspects of love and loss, and the lengths to which we go to preserve the happiness of those we love, even when we get it wrong.
This was an OK Binchy book.
It wasn't as good as Scarlet Feather, Quentin's, Circle of Friends, The Copper Beech, or Night Class!
However it was better than Firefly Summer (my most loathed of Binchy's books), or Light A Penny Candle.
This is one of her more depressing books, although I thought it ended happily on the whole, and for what this author is capable of.
It might make a good travel book if one was looking for something of length to hold ones interest without being overly taxing.
There are far superior novels by this author!
If I were a 'real' book reviewer I would be able to say what about the author's technique made this book (in my opinion) so far superior to the last one I read, by Barbara Taylor Bradford.
All I know is that these people felt like real people to me, whereas Barbara's didn't.
I cared about each one of them and genuinely loved getting to know them.
If there were a sequel to this book I would read it.
I never feel this in Ms Bradford's books.
This started out terribly....I just didn't buy into the whole premise.
I may be a child of the eighties, but this just read wrong for me.
The use of language, the bizarre importance given over to a 25th wedding anniversary.
The kids, 23 being the oldest one, were also bizarre.
Just bizarre.
The book did improve with Father Hurley's back story, and Frank's, but come on, who invited a priest over from Dublin for a wedding anniversary when they have a next to no contact with him in the meantime.
Being from Ireland myself, I just didn't recognise this importance given to the celebration.
Each chapter of this book is written from the point of view of a different character, which is a setup I usually enjoy.
Most of these characters, however, are stuck in unhappy situations and don't have the gumption to try to change them, so I found the book generally frustrating.
Binchy could've written a much better book by letting Desmond do his thing for 200 pages instead of just a chapter.
I have read a lot of Maeve Binchy books and most of them were excellent.
So when I started this one I thought it would be just like the others.
The problem was there wasn't much substance and passion within the story so it made it difficult for me to come back to.
And because there was a different story every chapter it was hard to stay focused on the prime storyline.
I liked the chapter about Frank and Father Hurley.
The last chapter which should've been the most exciting was probably the most boring.
The best thing about this book wasit wasn't long.
Deirdre and Desmond are planning their Silver Wedding Anniversary party. Appearances have always been extremely important to Deirdre so she strives to have everything perfect. The first eight chapters of the book are told my different members of either the family or the wedding party. It all feels like a series of vignettes even though they are tied in at the end. The last chapter is about the party itself.I am not a fan of Maeve Binchy, but someone in my book group requested a book by her so I chose this one.
This is on of those rare books I was quite happy to be finally done with. Normally I sympathize with the characters and wish them well.. in this case, however, most of them were behaving so stupidly and were so irritating, that I'd gladly erase them myself from the surface of the fictional world :) Whenever another disaster was to fall upon another hopeless example of how not to live one's life, I was about to shout "Serves you right!".Honestly, just how boring and irritating a book can be??
Maeve Binchy has a way with words. She is a natural story teller. Here we have a seemingly ordinary family coming together to celebrate a Silver Wedding in "darkest" Pinner. Each character is introduced in a separate chapter and we find with each a fascinating story of how they view life and some of the life changing incidents they experienced. The writer scratches beneath the veneer of middle class respectability to find some dark secrets and hypocrisy.
Deirdre and Desmond were ready to celebrate their 25th wedding anniversary with a party. They had three children, all different from one another.Many characters were followed throughout the story. And each had a hidden event secret! In the end, will love prevail?This was an easy to follow book with many interesting characters.
Don't give any stars because it doesn't deserve even one single star. Finished it to see what makes it such a popular book. I'm sorry for the time I spent. Throw it to the recycle bin so that no one can read it via me. Just terrible!
Not much to say. A simple story; an easy read.
I love her style. Her characters are so rich.
While I have enjoyed a number of Binchy's books, this one was just annoying. I couldn't get behind any character, the story just trudged on and finally ended.
Typical early Maeve Binchy. Each character had a chapter and the final chapter brought most of them together. Perception and lack of communication recurrent themes.
