https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12995.The_Hamlet
It was now September. The cotton was open and spilling into the fields; the very air smelled of it. In field after field as he passed along the pickers, arrested in stooping attitudes, seemed fixed amid the constant surf of bursting bolls like piles in surf, the long, partly-filled sacks streaming away behind them like rigid frozen flags. The air was hot, vivid and breathless--a final fierce concentration of the doomed and dying summer. First Edition of The Hamlet published in 1940Will Varner ow
I wont, I tell you!" It is hard to help people that are so willing to be victimized.
Ratliff's frustration continues as he thinks he has finally found a way to get the best of Flem.I won't tell you the circumstances of Ratliff's final defeat, but he finds himself digging for buried money.
Unfortunately I was away at college when Urs passed away, so my Father and brother had all the fun finding those wires and digging up those cans of money.
Reading about Ratliff digging for bags of money brought back memories of Urs and his distrust of the banks.
Old Will Varner owned about ever thing worth anythin'.
Most of the men farmed their cotton on shares on land owned by Varner.
But a man could make a livin' on shares and have a roof over his head which he most likely paid Varner for.
Their credit was good at Varner's store, too.
Ab come into town an' that darn fool Jody, Old Will's son went an' rented to Ab. Rentin' to a barn burner isn't good business.
Kinda a type of fire insurance if you get my meanin'.Then those Snopeses come crawlin' into the hamlet like cockroaches out of the woodwork.
Better than Jody an' as good as Will Varner.
The Long, Hot SummerThis is the first in the Snopes trilogy focusing on the decline of Southern aristocracy in Faulkner's fictional Yoknapatawpha County with the concurrent rise of capitalism via the squirrely, cold-blooded and crooked Snopes family.
The Hamlet explores the Snopes clan's early years as they rise to power while the mainstay families--the Compsons and the Sartorises--decline in wealth and influence.Abner "Ab" Snopes, the family patriarch, moves his wife and two kids to Frenchman's Bend from parts unknown, and Ab begins life as a tenant farmer on Varner property.
"Το Χωριουδάκι", εκδόσεις Δελφίνι. Μάλλον το πιο αδύναμο από τα βιβλία του αγαπημένου μου Φώκνερ, παραμένει ένα ενδιαφέρον και σημαντικό λογοτεχνικό έργο-εισαγωγή στην τριλογία των Σνόουπς.
So when I recently reread The Hamlet and the other two novels in The Snopes Trilogy, I tried to pay attention to Faulkner’s tone regarding women and found that not only does Faulkner sympathize with the senseless brutality women suffer at the hands of patriarchy, but that the arc of the trilogy’s epic plot suggests a justice far more liberal than what courts found for women throughout the first half of the 20th century when these novels are set (To say much more would spoil the climax of The Mansion).
If you are planning to read Faulkner, you must be prepared to take your meat raw.
It was as if Faulkner wanted you to never mistake this world for one in which there was any refinement or justice or sanity, as if he meant to reveal how unendurable a life could really be.
Your only chance is to be a Snopes and a have clan at your back, but then be careful, because the man at your back, Snopes are not, might be carrying a knife.No one would accuse Faulkner of being easy or fun to read, but after you have parsed a sentence and gleaned the meaning, there is so much to admire.
I had encountered Snopes in a previous Faulkner - I think it was As I Lay Dying - and expected Snopes to be one person.
I am reading this trilogy via Snopes: The Hamlet, The Town, The Mansion, which includes an introduction by George Garrett, in which he writes: As an ever-exploring craftsman Faulkner was relentlessly, extravagantly innovative.
Each is a new artistic adventure, making new and sometimes surprising demands on the reader.There were passages when I thought Faulkner must surely have been enjoying himself.
If he wasn't, he surely had this reader enjoying herself....
Actually all the characters in the book can be called greedy, but some are more successful at it than others.I experienced the story of Mr. and Mrs. Armstids near the end of the book was particularly sad.
The story of the auction of several wild ponies imported from Texas near the end of this book is particularly humorous.
The one exception is a short section near the end of Book Two: "Eula" where Faulkner inserts an allegory that portrays the devil as being unable to take possession of a soul he had previously traded for because the wheeler dealer character of this book was too clever.
It was that amateurish, that almost childlike, lack of premeditation and plan or even foresight of one who, depending on manipulation and not intellect in games of chance, finds himself involved in one where dexterity cannot avail, yet nevertheless attempting to cheat even at bald and simple draughts with an incredible optimism, an incorrigible dishonesty, long since become pure reflex and probably now beyond his control, making his dashing and clumsy moves then withdrawing his closed fist to sit watching with his little intent unwinking eyes the still, wasted, down-looking face opposite, talking steadily about almost everything except money and death, the fist resting on the table-edge still closed about the pawn or king's crown which it had palmed.
I've made my way through a lot of Faulkner's novels by this point and enjoyed them all a lot, but 'The Hamlet' might stand out, along with 'The Reivers' as one of the funniest.
'The Hamlet' is a series of interlinked short stories about the coming of the Snopes clan to Frenchman's Bend and their effects on the townspeople through their weird, vague wiles.
Horse trades gone wrong, the Snopes kinsman who falls in love with and has sex with a cow in public (yes, you read that right), and the final tricksy con regarding the mythical treasure of the eponymous Frenchman--it reminds one of a more perverted Don Knotts movie from the 60s.
The plotting is not flawless (as is, e.g., Absalom), but the writing is often so brilliant and the characterizations so rich and even profound, that one can forgive Faulkner his somewhat gothic conceits and sometimes excessive Naturalism.
A masterpiece. I wish I could say the same for the succeeding volumes of The Snopes Trilogy.
I like Faulkner, but I didn't like this book.
Faulkner can be difficult (which doesn't bother me); this book wasn't difficult -- it just wasn't that good.
I liked some of the writing, and it got better near the end but not enough to make up for the middle.Much of it was ridiculous (in more than one sense of that word) -- some of it on purpose, some of it unintentional is my guess.
A woman-child is described in terms both Olympian and bovine and one of the Snopes wants her for her daddy's land; the idiot (in the Faulknerian sense of the word) Snopes is in love with a real cow.
Faulkner’s Calvinist Cosmic Joker, from his earliest novel Sartoris, enters here when Jack Houston can’t find his cow, “it seemed to him that once more he had been victim of a useless and elaborate practical joke at the hands of the primal maniacal Risibility, the sole purpose of which had been to leave him with a mile walk in darkness.” I loved reading Faulkner decades ago because of his references to the life I knew in rural Maine, wood fires, hand-pump well-water, and even the marsh and mountain words like “swale”—on Crockett Ridge an upland lowland.
I had tried to read it a few years before.
Put aside but then read it was one of his more difficult works.
I finally found my footing but then hit what I'll call "the peep show." It spans about 10 pages and as many times as I read it I still had not a clue what was going on.
All this to say I loved the book but I approached differently than other similar difficult reads.
But I'm also going to take a break with something lighter before I read the The Town.
This is the first of three books about the Snopes family and introduces Flem Snopes to the reader.
The first part of the novel may be familiar from one of Faulkner's short stories, "Barn Burning" which many of us had to read in school.
I have no idea how much Faulkner is read outside of required assignments for school, but I'd recommend him to anyone willing to take his works easily, without the academic pressures usually associated with his novels.
Shift your gears and the the book do the heavy lifting.
I finally finished this dense, slow, boring reading project.
The imagery and scope of the story are difficult to pull off and Faulkner is obviously a master.
Second, I will say that the story of the Snopes clan is pretty fascinating in itself.
Having given out that necessary praise, the fact is that the Cliff Notes version of the story would be preferable to slogging through the endless details of the characters' posture or the author's conjuring of the history of every square inch of the town any time the story slows down, which is frequently.
But then I punched it in the face and it finally gave up like an asshole.
One of the most memorable books I have ever read. Haunting.Maybe I'll review it tomorrow but what can I say?You'll either read Faulkner someday or you won't.I can't think of a better novel to start out with, though.
The first book of the Snopes trilogy finds us in Frenchman's Bend a small Mississippi town built in the ruins of an old stately plantation.
In the aftermath of the war the somewhat shady character Flem Snopes shows up and pretty quickly begins taking over the town.
The main theme I suppose is the abject poverty of the townsfolk and the downright greed that drives some of them.
It's pretty much four stories - some loosely related.
I could have done without the one about weird Ike Snopes and his romance with a cow, but then that's the one folks talk about , lol.
My American Literature professor at Columbia told us that this was the ideal starting point for reading the novels of William Faulkner.
Personally, when I was at Columbia I felt out of place and unwanted, just like Flem Snopes.
William Faulkner is a big promoter of the myth of southern gentility, i.e. that the Antebellum South was a gracious place until the "white trash" came in and ruined it after Reconstruction.
Personally, I wish a whole race of subhuman sea-creatures would swarm out of the Hudson River, join forces with the white trash Snopes clan and consume the Columbia campus!
Broken into four sections, and published occasionally as short stories, The Hamlet begins Faulkner's Snopes family trilogy.Set in Frenchmen's Bend on Mississippi's Yoknapatawpha River, this tale begins as Al Snopes and his family sign-on to be tenant farmers on Will Varner's land.
The whole story is told by the very observant V.K. Ratliff, who doesn't miss a beat.
And, if this story sounds vaguely familiar, it's because The Long, Hot Summer is loosely based on Faulkner's collection.It's a necessary pre-read before The Town and The Mansion, and picks up where The Unvanquished leaves off with the Snopes family.Important read if you're a Faulkner-file, otherwise I might skip it.
The only problem with Faulkner is not what I thought it was when I was forced to read him in high school (that he just doesn't make a lick of sense).
The problem I now know is that you can't read him quickly, you can't read him with the television on, nor with other people's children running through your house.
If you try, it might take you 20 pages of confusion to actually understand that yes, he is really talking about somebody screwing a cow.
That's just an example of how much entertainment is buried beneath the confusion of ridiculously convoluted but breathtakingly beautiful sentences.
It is so worth settling in and reading slowly.
As some other Good readers have commented, not as tightly plotted as you might want, but still captivating at times and gives you the best of what Faulkner can give you.  Some people say that the Snopes family is a predecessor to the Trumps, but that's not entirely accurate. I mean, the low business dealings and amorality is there, as is the slow creeping into the fabric of a society through guile, but the Trumps are all sizzle, no steak. Media creations. Plus their wealth is inherited. The Snopes are stoic in the very devil's face...
What a trip! I still have not decided whether I loved it or hated it. So much country! Reminds me of all of those Romanian novels I had to read for middle and high school, very "country". Still, something about it was fascinating. I think in the end I loved the writing, but hated the world that it describes.
oh, so good. the language is so gorgeous and the subtext so loud. Best to go to the classics to read a really great book. What other than maybe Don deLillo and David Foster Wallace could compare in this generation?????
Yes NoReport abuse | PermalinkComment Comment17 of 17 people found the following review helpful5.0 out of 5 stars READ THIS GREAT BOOK, October 20, 2006By Ethan Cooper (Big Apple) - See all my reviews(VINE VOICE) This review is from: The Hamlet (Paperback)Faulkner assembled much of THE HAMLET from short stories, where his themes were courtship, lust, love, and obsession or where the average person succumbs to greed or foolishness and is victimized in business.Take the subject of love.
There were no copies of James Patterson or Danielle Steele or Twilight-type books (not that there is anything wrong with those books): those people who were literate in America's depression years were most likely well-read, well-educated, and had learned a trick or two in life and on their travels and knew how to make a buck (or a lot of bucks) off those many people who'd never crossed a county line.
(And imagine a future America in which the Fed tries for a Fedcoin economy in which all money can be traced and tracked: there will be enough people like the Snopes who just won't let that happen).
Não me é possível atribuir 3 estrelas e meia, que seria a minha rigorosa avaliação quantitativa.De todos os que li do autor, foi o que menos me impressionou, sem o deixar de fazer. E, na verdade, surpreendida fiquei por não haver uma referência à bebida de eleição do Faulkner: o toddy! Eu que a esperava para aí à décima página...
And I started reading and waiting when I'd feel it's him, it's my Faulkner, who knows how to speak with my soul and make my heart feel alive, but I was wrong, as the very first book of The Hamlet is like his early works, when W.F. was just "reading and reading and reading everything...
In his first book on the Snopes family, Faulkner crafts a saga of a poor farming family who moves to Frenchman’s Bend.
Told primarily from the townspeople’s perspective, The Hamlet shows how outsiders are treated in the rural South, where the traditional and codependent in-group creates a threatening other in those who are not “from here”.
Inversely, the book also tells the story of how one family turns a small town upside down, with Flem Snopes wedging himself into a position of power and using that power to expand his family’s domain throughout the town.
