https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99664.The_Painted_Veil
I definitely wasn't prepared for some of the twists and turns that this story took, but I enjoyed every minute.Kitty Fane moved to Hong Kong with her husband, Walter.
From the start, it is made very clear that he is head-over-heels in love with his wife.Likewise, it is immediately evident that Kitty does not return the sentiment.
He will grant her a divorce, if Charles will agree in writing to divorce his wife and marry Kitty immediately thereafter.
Kitty seems to be the only one surprised by Charles' duplicity.I have to say that Walter had a special place in my heart.
… What most husbands expected as a right I was prepared to receive as a favor.”She: “Do you think that the soul is immortal?”He: ”How should I know?”On her breakup with the man who seduced her: “You really are the most vain and fatuous ass that it’s ever been my bad luck to run across.”Of a woman’s restless eyes: “They moved from one part of you to another, to other persons in the room, and then back to you; you felt that she was criticizing you, summing you up, watchful meanwhile of all that went on around her, and that the words she spoke had no connection with her thoughts.”And I think it’s fair to call this the moral of the story -- from a nun serving orphans and the dying in the cholera epidemic: “…the only thing that counts is love of duty; when love and duty are one, then grace is in you and you will enjoy a happiness which passes all understanding.”In the preface the author even gives us some writing tips: “I think that this is the only novel I have written in which I started from a story rather than from a character.
There are also comments here on the nature of westerners "doing good" in cultures considered lesser.Walter's dying words are "It was the dog that died." This is a reference to the poem "An Elegy on the Death of a Mad Dog" by Oliver Goldsmith.
The poem tells of a man who is bitten by a mad dog.
In the novel, I believe that Walter sees himself as the mad dog who had dragged Kitty into a life-threatening situation, (foreshadowed by Maugham's prologue) biting her in a way, expecting that it would be a death sentence for her.
This is so good.The Painted Veil, first published in 1925, is now considered a classic. That fact - combined with the cover, description and the reviews - had me switching into classic-reading mode. That might sound like I've gone a bit mad, but I mean that I approach classics with a different frame of mind and a greater tolerance for slow-moving plots, airy-fairy language and characters I cannot relate that much to. You know what I mean, you cannot expect fast-paced action if you want to appre
You know what I mean, you cannot expect fast-paced action if you want to appreciate Austen and others like her, violence is toned down in classics, sex is a rarity.
This doesn't mean they aren't good, but I always prepare myself for a very different - and perhaps more challenging - kind of read.As it happens, I need not have bothered.
I find it sad how Walter was willing to overlook all Kitty's negatives and the fact that she didn't like him at all just so he could have the chance to love her.
For example, getting confirmation that your spouse has been unfaithful though you did not catch her in the act, and then "imagining" her and her lover in bed doing naughty things to each other, laughing and ridiculing you, and projecting these few scenes with slight variations each time, hundreds of times in the following months so that it becomes a reality in the mind's eye.This novel is Somerset Maugham's calamitous case study on the travesties begotten by a faithless, heartless wife who is--frankly--gullible to the charms of a cocksure cad, and of her caring cuckold's emotional pain and his poisonous and uncontrollable resentment.Kitty Fane ruthlessly ridicules her husband, Dr. Walter Fane, to her lover as she dreams of marrying this cad she can't see is playing her.
Though the husband Walter loves Kitty still, after he finds out of the affair, his selfish desire for revenge goads him into taking her with him to rural China, the heart of the cholera epidemic.
He was a good man, as she was to find out, but once crossed, his soul was dark with thoughts of the ultimate revenge – death, either socially or in reality.He gave his wife a choice, divorce, which would mean the end of her career as a socialite with pretty party dresses, passionate lovers and invitations to all the best balls in town.
Pregnant, she told him she didn’t know if it was his or her lover’s but it mattered not, because the husband got written out at this point in a touching deathbed scene.She returns to Hong Kong, now lodging with her previous paramour and his wife, a heroine and tragic widow, but blots her copy book briefly by one more go-round with the ex-lover.
But Maugham in a slower gear is more compelling than ninety-five percent of fiction out there.The story gets off to an exciting start in the city of Hong Kong, where a British national named Kitty Fane is interrupted from post-coital afternoon bliss with a charismatic Assistant Colonial Secretary named Charlie Townsend when she hears someone in her house.
I've known Charlie Townsend for a good many years and once or twice I've caught him with the mask off--you see, I never mattered, just a subordinate official in the Customs--and I know that he doesn't in his heart give damn for any one in the world but himself."Kitty, lounging easily in her chair, looked at him with smiling eyes.
Kitty, her nerves failing her, opened her mouth to scream; but, seeing what she was going to do, he swiftly put his hand over it and her cry was smothered in his fingers.”When Kitty accepts the marriage proposal of Dr. Walter Fane, it sets off a chain of events that land them both in the middle of a cholera epidemic in Mei-Tan-Fu, China.
Dr. Walter Fane is not a fool, but he is a complete fool when it comes to his love of this beautiful bobble of girl who has never had to have a serious thought in her life.
This was my second meeting with the author and certainly not the last.
We met Kitty who married Walter Fane, more for a husband than by real affection.
The novel is centered on Kitty, about his feelings.
And that's another Kitty encountered at the end of the novel.I loved the character of Walter also.
Seen only through the eyes of his wife, but we guess an intelligent, sensitive and deeply in love with his wife.The novel allows to discover the ravages of cholera in China.
Kitty suddenly discovers death and disease.
I had a crush for the book and the author.
The Painted Veil is a remarkable golden oldie. Published in 1925 for the first time, it had slightly different approach to stories in the sense that the author punched a good story into 246 pages and said more with his economy of words, than 1000+-page novels. FROM THE BLURB:  Less known than his masterpiece Of Human Bondage, this 1925 Somerset Maugham novel rips at your emotions with its portrayal of an adulterous wife. When the bacteriologist husband of Kitty Fane learns of her infidelity, he
When the bacteriologist husband of Kitty Fane learns of her infidelity, he forces her to accompany him into the festering center of a Chinese cholera epidemic.
The main character is the love-starved, spoiled young woman, Kitty Fane.
Kitty was vain, loved to laugh and play, and found her new husband boring and sometimes disgusting.
By stating the conditions, he knew Kitty was to learn a few lessons she would never forget.
Somerset Maugham's story had a twist to it, which resulted in Kitty growing up, discover the meaning of life and love and repent for everything she did that caused her and everyone around her harm.
Jedna od meni najdražih Momovih knjiga... Potpuno zanemarena kod domaćih izdavača... Po ovom romanu snimljen je i divan film... Pokušavala sam godinama da animiram srpske izdavače da ga objavljuju, ali oni su jurili samo hitove sa bestseler lista... Ali ne gubim nadu... :)
Although the movie took some liberties from the book, I liked the latter, too.Meet Kitty, a spoiled, self-absorbed and very attractive young woman who finds it difficult to find a man to her liking in order to marry him (her mother was no help in the matter as she always wanted the best match for her beautiful daughter).
When her younger sister gets proposed to by a baronet, Kitty finds it imperative that she should marry before her.Enter Walter Fane, a young, introvert bacteriologist who falls deeply in love with her even if he guessed her true character.
Kitty runs to Charles (with whom she is madly in love) and proposes they both divorce and marry.
But, in the movie, Walter and Kitty are much more likeable -- probably because they find (SPOILER ALERT)redemption in their love for one another, and Kitty is able to resist Charlie's later advances.While the book was well-written, I was expecting a similar ending to the movie and was all the more disappointed with Kitty in particular.
The book did have one very redemptive moment for me at the end -- Kitty told her father that (SPOILER ALERT) she would raise her daughter to be self-sufficient.
I only hope she was able to raise her daughter to be more compassionate and less self-absorbed -- but, for a character like Kitty, it seems unlikely.
A rare instance when the movie is a lot better than the book. The movie is lovely. The book was just okay.
If you need to like the characters in a book, then I doubt this book will suit you.
If you want a book that draws realistic characters that do what a person with that personality would do, then yeah, I think you’ll like this.
Somerset Maugham.The author states in the short introduction that this is the only one of his books where he started with an idea for a plot and thereafter invented characters to fit the events.
Each one's actions and words and thoughts correspond perfectly with their different personalities.
There is something infinitely fascinating to me about stories like this - a clever, passionate man falling in love with a pretty but fickle woman who, he knows, will never understand and appreciate his worth, and yet, he can't resist.
I'm not going to bring a child into the world, and love her, and bring her up, just so that some man may want to sleep with her so much that he's willing to provide her with board and lodging for the rest of her life.Makes those "clever" men seem utterly foolish and selfish after all...
الخيانة ذنب ثقيل لا يطهرها الا العمل الجماعى و انكار الذات و مساعدة الغير حتى لو كان فى أرض الوباء حيث نتطهر من ذنوبنا بوضع أرواحنا على كف الرحمن
And that’s where this book opens: a bedroom, a locked door, two lovers, and a humiliated husband.I admit that I loved Kitty from the beginning, even though her choices were maddening.
Kitty experiences that completely, and I think it’s a huge testament to how much maturity she gains that she picks herself up, brushes herself off, and keeps on going.
Her mistakes in this book actually made me love her even more, because she doesn’t let them define her.Nor is Walter portrayed as the simple, wounded hero.
He’s far from the meek fool that Charles Townsend assumes he is and he’s also not the sweet loving husband that Kitty thought she married.
Подобно на Дейзи от „Великият Гетсби“, Кити преминава през живота като нежно ухание на цвете, което носи мимолетна наслада, но почти нищо повече.
Моъм има някаква слабост към интелигентните и чувствителни мъже, които се влюбват безпаметно в повърхностни обикновени жени (справка: „Души в окови“).
Кити е странник, който броди в опустошената от холера непозната земя и когато цветният воал на предишния ѝ кух живот се подвига, тя вижда света във всички негови досега размазани нюанси.
Осъзнава и какво никога не е имала.
Our heroine Kitty's transformation (view spoiler)[her admission of her own worthlessness, willingness to admit it to an "enemy," and attempts to change (hide spoiler)] happens way too fast to be believable.
Waugham painted himself into a corner by forcing nature (view spoiler)[Kitty's pregnancy (hide spoiler)] into the story.
It made him speed up the timeline to get it all in under the gun.Still, this is a well-told, highly enjoyable tale revolving around some good, bad and ambivalent people - most of which are all three of those at once - and as a water-tester for whether or not I wanted to throw myself into Maugham's much deeper work, Of Human Bondage, The Painted Veil was a success.
O Véu de EntrelinhasQue dizer sobre este livro?!...Vou dedicar-lhe algumas linhas e - inspirada pelo título - um véu de entrelinhas:Aqui há Ele, Ela e Cólera!Cólera emocional e Cólera real.Há falso amor, paixão, traição e vingança.E há crescimento e um final irritante que castigo roubando-lhe uma estrela!Mas enfim...
, os interessados em saber a que crescimento me refiro, podem passar à próxima Review.Quanto aos restantes, sugiro que fiquem por aqui!
;)O Crescimento de KittyEla é frívola, caprichosa, egocêntrica...e algo mais que ainda não sabe!Ele é carente, desastrado no amor, racional, inteligente e...também um pouco mais que ainda não sabe!Casam-se sem compatibilizar diferenças.
Vivem num relacionamento frio!
Sem faísca!Simplesmente estão!
Num limbo!
It's about Kitty, a young woman who has somehow found herself married to a man she's not even fond of, much less in love with.
What follows next is unexpected - a passive aggressive response from her husband and a swift removal to a country riddled with cholera.
Although of its time, there's a definite note of female strength here, which naturally resonated with me strongly.
(I do love a strong female lead!).
Yes, there's regrettable racism in this book, which made me wince every time I encountered it - but I suppose we must remember that the author was a product of his time.
The anatomy and consequences of an affair.First published in 1925, this documents the sad and short marriage of Kitty and Walter and how Kitty’s affair with Charles Townsend changed all of their lives dramatically.Maugham’s ability to convey emotion and the intricacies of relationship dynamics borders on the uncanny.
Never hurting for suitors, just never the right one, she chooses Walter, a young biologist stationed in Hong Kong, as this seems the perfect solution to her dilemma.Once in Hong Kong she meets Townsend, a married colonial official, and their torrid love affair commences.Maugham’s portrayal of Kitty and her anguishing journey towards self-realization and atonement is hypnotic.
Qué difícil hacer una reseña cuando no te salen las palabras! A veces, al terminar de leer un libro, descubres que parte de los sentimientos que te ha generado la historia aún están en tu interior, como una fina cortina que se mece bajo una corriente invisible de aire. Y es entonces cuando tienes que desgranar esas emociones y cuando te quedas sin palabras; vacía, aún cuando la brisa aún sopla en tu interior.Pues bien, dicho esto, poco más puedo decir: sencillamente es una historia hermosa, dulce y triste; una joya dentro de una prosa exquisita.
the painted veil is the veil of illusion beautifully written novel, a story of love, infidelity, and
But Norton and Watts planted all these tiny little romantic hopes in my brain, and when I started reading this novel, in the back of my mind, I was expecting this brilliant, clever, amazing love story.So many strangely disappointed hopes, as this book turns out to be a shrewd, emotional and terribly depressing account of a woman’s awakening.
I’m not going to bring a child into the world, and love her, and bring her up, just so that some man may want to sleep with her so much that he’s willing to provide her with board and lodging for the rest of her life.” I only regret having dived into this novel with such clouded expectations, because even though it’s extremely real in its heartache, and it leaves you feeling hopelessly depressed, it is so mind-numbingly worthwhile.
Παρόλες τις όμορφες περιγραφές των τοπίων, τις οποίες βέβαια χρησιμοποιεί με φειδώ- καθώς τις χρησιμοποίει επιδραστικά προς την ιστορία-, το κείμενο επικεντρώνεται στους χαρακτήρες -κυρίως της Κίτι- τα αισθήματα τους και τις μεταξύ τους σχέσεις.Οι ήρωες είναι τόσο ανθρώπινοι, τόσο ελαττωματικοί ως πλάσματα, που μοιάζουν να τους καταπίνουν οι αδυναμίες τους.
Όμως, η αφήγηση του συγγραφέα τους ζωντανεύει σε τέτοιο βαθμό και με τόση ευαισθησία, που η σχέση τους με τον αναγνώστη χτίζεται σελίδα με την σελίδα.Ένα υπέροχο βιβλίο το οποίο δεν θα πρότεινα στους φανς της έντονης δράσης και αγωνίας.
But is he really?Most authors would turn a melodramatic story like the above into a cliche-riddled soap opera in which husband and wife, out in the wilds, share some dramatic, eye-opening experiences and come to appreciate and love each other, after which the wife, having obtained her husband's forgiveness, dies a tearful death.
Like many readers, I didn't overly care for Kitty, but I found it interesting to follow her journey and meet the men in her life.
(hide spoiler)]Kitty’s mother, Mrs. Garstin, married for money and status and encouraged her daughter to do the same.
Kitty says, “I’m looking for something and I don’t quite know what it is.” Waddington replies, “Some of us look for the Way in opium and some in God, some of us in whiskey and some in love.” Later he says, “I have an idea that the only thing which makes it possible to regard this world we live in without disgust is the beauty which now and then men create out of the chaos.
I've always been amazed at the effort the British took to maintain their aristocratic traditions in their distant colonies. The Painted Veil a beautifully written story about a young wife, Kitty Fane, who is brought to Hong Kong by her doctor husband in the 1920's. She doesn't love her husband so she soon falls in love and begins an affair with her husbands superior. It's the story of how one-sided relationships can lead to heartbreak for everyone involved. This is a sad and tragic story but still beautiful and magical in the telling of it. 4.5 stars.
