https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/286490.Fifth_Chinese_Daughter
This is about an immigrant Chinese American family.
The central theme portrays with clarity an inside view of a Chinese family living in the US.
You end up seeing both he good and the bad of both the American and the Chinese culture.
You follow the author to the point where she is able to appreciate both her own heritage and the opportunities afforded by American life.
She becomes a (view spoiler)[writer and a pottery craftsman with a shop of her own  (hide spoiler)].- I particularly loved watching how her father and finally her mother changed.
As a memoir, this is fine. It did, however, spark me to sit down and have a conversation with my husband about memoirs and why I generally find them so unsatisfying. There are a few that I think justify the genre, but then there's a lot that just make me shrug my shoulders and not care very much. Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
It certainly has the air of an old-fashioned Social Studies text, whose theme might be "The Happy Immigrant Jade Snow Discovers the Wonders of the American Way", combined with "Everything You Need to Know About Chinese Culture in Four Easy Lessons"; Jade Snow Wong puts some lectures in the mouth of her parents that no human being would ever actually speak.
And in spite of her educational purpose and her commitment to mostly focusing on positive things when talking about other people (evidently part of her ideas about proper human relations), something very personal comes through at times.
If read from a literary and/or Asian American perspective, FCD is a true model minority story: the fifth daughter in a traditional Chinese family succeeds in American society.
She never fully realizes that her criticisms could be lessened by the circumstances surrounding the particular time period in which FCD was written.At the point of time in which FCD was written and published (late 1940s/early 1950s), there definitely were certain restrictions to how an autobiography could be written and especially how an autobiography of a Chinese American woman could be written.
Fifth Chinese DaughterBy Jade Snow Wong256 pagesUniversity of Washington Pressisbn13: 9780295968261This memoir of Jade Snow Wong portrays her life as a kid until when she got older.
Jade Snow Wong's writing style is different than any other because this book is based on a true story, her story.
Like many of us, she's a Chinese American and her lifestyle may be different than ours nowadays, since there's a huge difference between our age.I would recommend this book to anyone because many people can learn from this book.
Ones who are Chinese American, just like me, can relate to this book and learn more about the chinese culture.
This is a beautiful small book, an autobiography by Jade Snow about growing up in Chinatown, San Francisco in the 1930s-40s.
The beauty comes as she gets older and realizes sons have preference, and she will need to work outside the home to have enough money to go to school.
Her contacts and the tender way she discovers life and how one realization leads to another makes all the difference as she grows up and attends college during the depression and then finds work during WWII.
Jade Snow died in 2006.
Another good book from my neighbor.This is the true story of Wong Jade Snow, the fifth daughter of a chinese family, who was born and raised in Chinatown, San Francisco.
Without her family's support, she put herself through college, worked successfully for teh Navy during WWII, and started her own business, which allowed her to write this book.I think it was most interesting because it was a true story, and she wrote about her life from a perspective that showed the depth of other people's feelings as well as her own.Good book overall!
Jade Snow Wong is the "fifth Chinese Daughter" of a large, austere and formal Chinese family.
She attends both public and Chinese school in San Francisco.
After high school, she graduates from junior college, then from Mills College on a full scholarship.
She supports herself in high school and college by working as a housekeeper and maid.
Sadly, Jade's parents never contribute to her education even though they are putting her brother through medical school.
Jade gives vivid descriptions of the ordered Chinese life--funerals , births and weddings.
Jade became successful as a pottery maker, as well as a writer.
Recommended to readers who enjoy Chinese culture.
This autobiography tells the story of Jade Snow Wong a Chinese girl who lives with her family in China town in San Francisco it details her struggle with trying to balance the two very different she was exposed to.
The authors purpose is to show the struggle of coming from one culture and being fully submersed into an entirely different one along with coming to age.Also to show what it’s like being a girl in a Chinese family.
This is a quote she said to her dad and describes the pain many Chinese girls at that time felt.The theme of this text is that you can be anything you set your mind to.
It's a pretty straightforward narrative, a memoir of a Chinese American woman born as the fifth daughter into a family of first generation Chinese immigrants in 1930s San Francisco.
Seventy years or more separates me and the little girl in the narrative, and yet on a very fundamental level, our identity struggles feel the same and the same cultural conflicts still present themselves.However, this is not an engaging book--it reads like an impersonal outline of a life.
Part of the impersonal feel of this woman's story stems from the fact that the memoir is written in the third person.
Though her story has cultural and historical value, as well as the potential to be an honest, unfiltered account of life in the Chinese community at the time, I found too many stylistic issues, such as heavy bias and a narrowed scope of view, with her writing style to consider it as such and have come to view the book as more of a novel rather than an authentic account.That being said, I do believe that there are some positive aspects to Fifth Chinese Daughter, such as the well-composed narrative and the fact that there is some anthropological and historical value to her story.
I really enjoyed reading this account of a young, Chinese-American (or American Born Chinese) woman’s life in the 1930s and 40s. She provided so much detail and description of the conflicts in her two cultural environments and in the belief systems underpinning each. She was also super resilient, determined and smart. And it was refreshing to read a coming of age story where the focus was decidedly not on seeking “love” or romance.
I liked it, but it definitely felt like it was colored by the time in which it was written. She made it sound like everything was roses and it is hard to believe that things were always so wonderful for everyone around her. I am sure things were not horrible for everyone at that time, but I would imagine that there were some challenges that were just not shared in the book.
A lovely paring with A Tree Grows in Brooklyn.The culture of the Chinese neighborhoods of the turn of last century and the evolution to the end of the author's report was well written, easy to follow, and...well...interesting!
Interesting read about a large Chinese American family growing up in the 1950's. Told from the POV of one of the younger daughters as she struggles to understand her place in the family and live up to her own expectations.
Fascinating story-
This is one of my very favorite autobiographies. I first read it in high school more than 50 years ago and it is just as good today.
The narrative does, however, offer modest redemption for the otherwise harshly represented members of Wong’s family by underscoring their tremendous, at times buried, love for one another and attributing their emotional distance to their culture rather than their nature.Wong begins the arc of her twenty-four year story by introducing her younger self as a girl, who, “until she was five years old” (2), inhabited a world that “was almost wholly Chinese” (2).
Though the narrative is driven by this gravitation towards Western cultural values, Wong’s work offers insight into the intersectional challenges that Chinese American women faced in the first half of the twentieth century.
Jade Snow Wong’s Fifth Chinese Daughteris the author’s retrospective story of her own life as a Chinese American girl who grows up under the pressure and influence of two different cultures. Focusing on the Chinese versus “foreign” aspects at different stages of her life, Wong relates her transition from a strictly Chinese upbringing to her a young women coming into her own, successfully (in her view) bridging her Chinese and American worlds closer together.  At the core of Fifth Chinese Daughte
Jade Snow Wong’s Fifth Chinese Daughteris the author’s retrospective story of her own life as a Chinese American girl who grows up under the pressure and influence of two different cultures.
While Wong grows up with a foundation of morals instilled in her by her family, she often questions the true value of these tenets to her life, forming her own philosophy along the way that commits her Chinese background and American environment.
This reflects the ways in which many Chinese American women first had to know and experience what was possible before even choosing a new path for themselves.
In her quasi-autobiographical novel Fifth Chinese Daughter, Jade Snow Wong attempts to capture her experiences as a Chinese American growing up in the 20th century. In doing so, she explores the overarching themes of self-identity, feminist undertones, and the search for commensurability between Chinese and American cultural values. Jade Snow Wong tells her narrative chronologically. She begins with her experiences growing up in Chinatown under the strict authority of her traditional parents. (4
In her quasi-autobiographical novel Fifth Chinese Daughter, Jade Snow Wong attempts to capture her experiences as a Chinese American growing up in the 20th century.
As she continued to mature, Wong’s discontent with the restrictive portions of Chinese Tradition grows.
Indeed, this continued conflict allowed for Wong’s self-actualization: having had enough of tradition, Wong decided to live life on her own terms.
In abstaining from the first person, Wong is able to continually assert her dual cultural identity as a Chinese American.
Rather, he or she experiences frustration, confusion, and triumph alongside Jade Snow Wong.
In their article, The Divided Voice of Chinese-American Narration: Jade Snow Wong’s Fifth Chinese Daughter, Kathleen Yin and Kristoffer Paulson make the radical assertion that Jade Snow Wong achieves a “successful integration of her divided world” (CAN, 57).
Although Jade Snow does state that “she must sift both [cultures] and make her decisions alone” (FCD, 132), there are very few instances where she actually adheres to her own advice and incorporates both her Chinese and American cultures.
They provide the reader with considerable support as to how Jade Snow Wong’s Chinese American dialectic is disrupted several times throughout the novel.
In Fifth Chinese Daughter, Jade Snow Wong demonstrates that the same aspects of Chinese and American culture do clash across the board.
The management and reconciliation of this clash, however, is entirely up to the individual and leads to a variety of immigrant experiences in America.“You must give me freedom to find some answers for myself,” (129) says Jade Snow Wong to her parents, a quote that demonstrates both the universality of her struggles and the uniqueness of her chosen solutions.
This Chinese tradition conflicts with laxer American customs in regards to social engagements, a clash that, according to Wong’s narration style, seems to apply to any Chinese immigrant in America.
In her book, Wong discusses her traditional upbringing and her difficulty balancing her American values with her family values.
When she performs subpar in school, her parents will discipline her.
It is frustrating as a reader to read pages of text that could have easily been summed up in one sentence.
The most difficult part of the reading was how Wong chose to represent her parent’s speech.
The book was written for a white audience who know Asian Americans by stereotypes such as the model minority myth or orientalism.
While the book does have some literary value, it still is a frustrating read.
Jade Snow Wong spoke Cantonese exclusively the first five years of her life, and her world was wholeheartedly Chinese.
Jade Snow lived with the Dean to save money so she could continue to attend Mills College.
Jade Snow Wong was a trailblazer not only as an pioneer Asian American author.
She became one of America's finest ceramists, an interest she picked up during her senior year at Mills College, and continued to pursue after she graduated.
In her sequel, "No Chinese Stranger", Jade Snow Wong and her husband started the first travel agency to take American tourists to China.
But if we first allowed ourselves to meet Jade Snow and let her share her story and accept that she happens to be someone that is Chinese American which is vital to her identity because it marks her both physically and life-ly, then do her experiences become that much more acceptable, real, and relate-able to a certain degree.
Title: Fifth Chinese DaughterAuthor: Jade Snow WongPages: 246 Publisher: June 28th 1989 by University of Washington Press (first published 1950)Isbn: 0295968265 (ISBN13: 9780295968261) Fifth Chinese Daughter by Jade Snow Wong is like a biography. Jade Snow Wong writes the story of Jade Snow Wong from a third person’s point of view. Writing from a third person’s point of view allows me to see exactly what is happening around Jade Snow Wong’s family in California, but Jade Snow Wong. Jade Snow Wo
Writing from a third person’s point of view allows me to see exactly what is happening around Jade Snow Wong’s family in California, but Jade Snow Wong.
Jade Snow Wong is the fifth Chinese Daughter in the Wong’s family.
My favorite part of this book is when Jade Snow Wong finally established her own business at the end of the book, where she sells pottery for living.
Third person’s point of view limited me to put myself as a reader into Jade Snow Wong’s perspective to see what it is exactly like to live in her century.
Wong writes in third person which she justifies in the Author's Note: "Even written in English, an "I" book by a Chinese would seem outrageously immodest to anyone raised in the spirit of Chinese propriety." An ironic remark considering she talks mostly about her great achievements in education and work.
Perhaps if it was written in first person singular I would be able to accept her voice like any other memoir.
She has an interesting background to talk about but unfortunately assumes her audience is white and American: "...being Chinese in America, I have had problems..." It doesn't compare with the mastery of Wild Swans lets put it that way.
As the oldest child of two oldest children, high expectations were set for me by both parents.
The book was actually depressing for me sometimes, reminding me of how oppressed I felt when I lived at home.
I was expected to develop into what my parents wanted me to be.
There was little support for anything I wanted.
At least that's how it felt.
Even though I didn't like this book I would've read a continuation into more of her adult life, hoping for a happy ending I could learn from and apply to my own life.
To protect the privacy of the many people she references in her book, Wong has changed the name of all but a teacher special to her.
Jade Snow Wong begins her book with vignettes from her early days as she first became aware of the world outside her family.
She shares the methods of discipline and education, cooking and culture her family embraces, and as she is shown through her first 25 years, the barriers she faced as a woman and as a Chinese.
All is lightly told, with a happy, matter of fact voice, never dwelling on the negative sides of her life.
I was on a time limit and I needed to finish the book in 2 days, so I didn't read it word for word, and skipped lots of details, however, the parts that I thoroughly read through, were extremely descriptive and it was a pleasure to read and experience in a way, Jade Snow's life.
I found Jade Snow to be quite an interesting person; that I had to remind myself several times, that this was no work of fiction, rather a nonfiction retail of her actual life.
