https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1190469.Mental_Illness_and_Psychology
Reading Michel Foucault's Madness made me feel stupid.
Foucault switches gears in the last forty pages to the point where I felt like I was reading a different, and much more interesting, book.
I wouldn't read more Foucalt, however, unless the book was more like the last 40 pages and less like the first 100.
But if I had to read another Foucault book I'd buckle down and face the text as a grim task that would be good for me.
Sometimes I like reading books that make me feel that way.
Foucault revised it because of the “unstable relation of philosophical anthropology and social history” (xxvii), but after revision he “was not happy with the second version”—“and for good reasons,” as it became “an unstable synthesis [!] of early Heidegger’s existential account of Dasein as motivated by the attempt to cover up its nothingness and later Heidegger’s historical interpretation of our culture as constituted by its lack of understanding of the role of the clearing in both making possible and limited a rational account of reality” (id.).Text proper states its purpose as “to show that mental pathology requires methods of analysis different from those of organic pathology and that it is only by an artifice of language that the same meaning can be attributed to ‘illnesses of the body’ and ‘illnesses of the mind.’ A unitary pathology using the same methods and concepts in the psychological and physiological domains is now purely mythical” (10).
Ben de kendimce o kapıdan içeri buyur edeyim sizi;...-Çalış!
İstediğin şeylere (ki onları gerçekten istiyor musun?) sahip olabilmek için, en basitinden karnını doyurmak için çalış.
Hem ne kadar çalışsam da hiçbir zaman hayalimdeki cennetimsi eve sahip olmayacağım.
Kıyafetlere, makyaj malzemelerine, arabalara, telefonlara ne kadar para harcasam da o ideal kadına-erkeğe dönüşemeyeceğim.
Yediğim dondurma hiçbir zaman reklamlardaki gibi kıtırdamayacak.
İnsan her sabah saat 6-7-8'de kalkmaya ne kadar dayanabilir ki?
Yok hayır yapamayacağım.
Para harcamak da kazanmak da istemiyorum.
Ama mecburum.
-Evet mecbursun.-Haklısın mecburum....
Hayır değilim!-Mecbursun.-Değilim.
Para kazanmadan da harcamadan da yaşayabilirim.
Bi süre hiçbir şey yapmadan yaşamak istiyorum.
Provavelmente o livro mais acessível de Foucault, gostaria de ter lido a versão de 1954 para comparar com a reescrita em 62 já com toda a pesquisa do História da Loucura. O que importa é que ele parou de endossar as bobagens do Freud.
Kitap iki bolumden olusmakta ve bu bolumlere gecmeden once psikolojik bazi terimlerin birbirine karismamasi icin gerekli aciklamalar yapilmis, ornekler verilmis.Ozellikle psikolojiyle ilgilenmeye yeni baslayan bireyler icin de uygun bir kaynak olmus. Kitabin birinci kisminda hastaligin psikolojik boyutlari ele alinmis ve hastaliklari yasayan insanlarin icinde bulunduklari durumlar aciklanmis.Ikinci kisimda ise delilik ve kultur adi altinda tarihsel olarak toplumun delilige bakisi incelenmis. Orneklendirmeler biraz daha fazla olabilirmis ancak yine de aciklayici ve guzel bir eser.
Akıl hastalığının yapısı, bireyselliği, var oluşu, kültürel etkileri üzerine klasik psikoanaliz örnekleri de sunan kolay okunur bir metin..
Nothing could be more false than the myth of madness as illness that is unaware of itself as such; the distance between the consciousness of the doctor and the consciousness of the patient is not commensurate with that between the knowledge and ignorance of the illness.
The doctor is not on the side of health, possessing all the knowledge about the illness; and the patient is not on the side of illness, ignorant of everything about it, including its very existence.
I wish I could rate this, but to do so I would first have to understand it. This is a book I'll definitely come back to, but only after some serious reading in both psychology and 1950's writing.
Zor bir kitaptı. Ruhsal hastalıkları ikiye ayırmış nevroz ve psikoz diye. Ve ruhsal hastalıkların tam olarak anlaşılamayacağını öne sürmüş.
One of my favortie thinkers.
This thought has to do with the ways in which a society's definition of "madness" is number one: a reflection of the sociologic pathologies of that society, and number two: the ways in which a society decides which "social traits" it finds undesirable and creates a method in which to discipline (and punish!) those individuals.Will be interesting to finally read some of his later works and watch the evolution of this singular thought.
This book isn’t what I would call easy reading, but I thought it was good and informative, especially for the time in which it was originally written and published. I have a family member who suffers from schizophrenia and I highlighted many passages in the book that reminded me of him. I thought it was a decent read overall.
pretty alright. i'm sure his masterwork on the subject is much better, though
A beautiful introduction and analysis to the history of madness.
İlerledikçe açılan ancak yine de başlangıç için sigmund/anna freud temelli birtakım bilgiler isteyen eser.her post yapısalcı gibi eşelenmesi gereken :)
Reading a thesis, practically anyone's thesis, is a boring and tedious task. Such is the case with analyzing Foucault's thesis, even though he is far and above the average thesis writer. (If I were to reread my own thesis now, I would most be partly impressed and partly horrified, but never entertained). My suggestion is to read some of Foucault's other works first--Discipline and Punish, etc. Once you have a good appreciation for his work, return to his thesis and read it. It will make more sense and provide an interesting explanation of Foucault's philosophical beginnings.
It was interesting to read this book, divided as it is into two sections.
The first, larger section, was published in 1954 and was Foucault's first stand-alone book.
The text shows Foucault operating in something of a Heideggerean mode of anthropology.
Interesting stuff.The second section of the book is from 1962 and takes on a different register of analysis, more in line with Foucault's archaeological / historical critique of the social regulation of "madness" as he worked on in his History of Madness.This book then is a quick guide to see where Foucault started in his career and where he began moving in that formative decade.
This book is the theory and construction of the idea of madness.
Foucault breaks down the ideas and structures of what culture and history has done with the idea of madness and sets out to make you think outside of the current ideas of what madness is to us.
I enjoy Foucault as a thinker and I did get some ideas and thoughts reading this book, but it is not a very enjoyable read in itself.
If you have interest in psychology and or the history of mental illness/madness this maybe a book you want to check out, but for the general reader it is a tough book to understand or get enjoyment from.
Probably not worth the money. The book contains several short chapters in which Foucault outlines madness as it pertains to the insane individual and then examines how it relates to society. In the final chapters, Foucault brings to light the contradiction inherent in psychology's relation to madness: psychology cannot directly analyze madness because, as a discipline, psychology was founded on the exclusion of madness. But though the content is unexceptional, the cover is more than enough to make up for it. Once strangers spot you reading this book, they'll immediately recognize your brilliance and erudition.

"Written in 1954 and revised in 1962, Madness delineates the profound shift that occurred in Foucault's thought during this period. The first iteration reflects the philosopher's early interest in and respect for Freudian theory and the psychoanalytic tradition. The second part marks a dramatic change in Foucault's thinking. Examining the history of madness as a social and cultural construct, he moves into a radical critique of Freud and toward the postmodern deconstruction that was to dominate and define his later work."
I got into Foucault because my stepbrother had to read Discipline and Punish at Shimer College. I read it, found it interesting and proceeded to pick up and read other Foucault books as chance had it. This particular book demonstrates the evolution of his thought from what was originally a rather conventional mode.
The monograph itself isn't so great (though there is a chapter in the second part that nicely sums up History of Madness), but Dreyfus' introduction does do a good job of explaining where this work lies within Foucault's thought process and why Foucault was against publishing both the first and second (this one) editions.
The skeptic in me is only willing to take the ideas presented in the book, with a generous grain of salt. However, the brilliant way these ideas were unpacked was as enjoyable as the delicious language that was used in the process. A refreshing departure into a style of writing that is invigorating and full of pleasant surprises for the reader's brain.
Part 2 is wayyy more compelling than Part 1, where he was obsessed with Freud and using unnecessarily dense language. But given that Part 2 is much, much briefer than the preceding slog... not worth it.
Part 1 is mostly dry academic writing that's difficult to follow. Part 2 is thoughtful and illuminating. I'd like to read other works by Foucault but I really hope his usual style is more akin to Part 2 than to Part 1.
Fascinating- the first section may require the reader to look up more than a handful of terms, but the implications that both sections have to say about the concept of insanity in regards to history, its treatment, and its manifestations are well worth it.
This is, actually, his doctorate dissertation.
''Đuro je Martić poludio.''
Terimsel kelimeler ve açıklamalar dolayısıyla atlaya atlaya okuduğum bu kitaba haksızlık etmemek için yıldız vermeyeceğim.
