https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/188093.Journal_of_Katherine_Mansfield
chiuso il libro riesco solo a desiderare fortissimamente di scivolare ancora, quando sarà, in pagine così febbrili.
che pulsano di aneliti e vivono dell'attimo, riuscendo nell'instabilità della parola a restituirmelo: ogni attimo ferocemente, senza mezze misure.katherine mansfield era frustata da ogni possibile percezione della vita, tipo una falesia dal vento e dalle onde.
c'è un che di selvatico in lei, di talmente indomito, necessario e disarmante, una tale totalizzante e sgomenta tensione, che letti i diari posso incontrovertibilmente affermare di amare più ancora la donna dei suoi vividi racconti.«vivo in mezzo al frastuono di un torrente che io sola posso udire».
furiosa, isterica, urgente, adorabile kathleen.
No todos los diarios deben despertar las mismas ganas de leerlos (por supuesto) pero Mansfield, por suerte, quería que la leyeran y eso es evidente.
Se tratan miles de temas (algunos triviales, otros decididamente trascendentales) en una pocas páginas, se cambia de a saltos, hay fragmentos de libros, anotaciones de sueños.
Las últimas etapas del libro son un poco angustiantes porque también son los últimos días de su vida.
Me gustaron sus anotaciones de libros y las crisis compartidas, pero a la vez no pude dejar de sentir que, en algunos momentos, ella estaba tan dentro de sí misma que me expulsaba del diario.
Many years ago I found a copy of a totally pirated 1950s edition of this book in a second-hand bookshop in Malaga.
I had never read any of Mansfield's work before that, except a short story in my highschool Eng Lit book (which we never had to read for class), Miss Brill.
At the age of fourteen or whatever, it didn't make much of an impression.Having re-read this edition of the Journal innumerable times, and indeed memorised passages through sheer familiarity, I was ready to appreciate her work.
I have since acquired the masterly long version Katherine Mansfield Notebooks: Complete Edition as well as many of her stories.

Narrando i suoi giorni palesi e quelli nascosti e ormai vicina all'ultimo passaggio dimensionale, Katherine scrive: "Da quando ha memoria di sé, ella ha trascorso una vita tipicamente falsa. Eppure, malgrado tutto, ella ha avuto momenti, attimi, sprazzi di luce che le han fatto sentire la possibilità di qualcosa di ben diverso".In queste pagine si intravede un notevole potenziale inesploso, sì. Mi tengo stretti gli sprazzi di luce, ma torno veloce ai miei venerati, ben diversi, incenDiari.
Since I was heading back to NZ, I thought it might be fitting to pack Katherine Mansfield's journal to take with me -- I didn't realise that this journal is made up mostly of material from the last years of her life where she is ill, worried about her writing and in large amounts of pain.
Mansfield's always been that little bit intimidating, but in her journal she reads like a real person, and a surprisingly modern one -- despite the changes, losses and difficulties of the war, most of what Mansfield uses her journal to reflect upon are just as interesting today -- writing and the role of truth, the struggle of mind, illness and body, looking for direction.

I can't for the life of me remember why I ordered Katherine Mansfield's journal and one of her books of short stories from the main library.
Reading a journal feels strange, like maybe I'm sneaking a peak into someone's brain and I'm not sure that they would want me to do so, you know?
there's a real anguish there about whether or not it's good enough, or whether or not she's writing enough, and it feels so strange to find a comrade who wrote those words in her journal 90-some-odd years ago...
Anyway, it was interesting, and I'm reading her short stories, and they're very readable and real, and I like them even better.
"...the amount of minute and delicate joy I get out of watching people and things when I am alone is simply enormous- I really only have 'perfect fun' with myself.
Other people won't stop and look at the things I want to look at, or, if they do, they stop to please me or to humor me or to keep the peace.
at all now- I don't want to go home, I feel quite content to live here, in a furnished room and watch.
Life with other people becomes a blur: it does with J., but it's enormously valuable and marvelous when I'm alone, the detail of life, the 'life' of life."
Tienes la sensación constante de ser un "voyeur", que no deberías estar leyendo todo eso sin su permiso, y, a la vez, te sientes impotente por no poder animarla, acompañarla en su soledad o proporcionarle algo de descanso en su agonía.Una mujer muy dura consigo misma, muy sensible y muy exigente en cuanto a la calidad de sus escritos, su falta de voluntad para escribir (con lo débil que está en muchos casos), su pasión por su trabajo.
Una pena que muriera tan joven, con todo ese talento que no le dio tiempo a plasmar en cuentos o novelas por completo.
If someone had told me a couple years ago that I would be reading the Journal of Katherine Mansfield, I would not have believed them.
Through a series of events, I started reading this book.Katherine Mansfield lived during the early 1900's and was a writer.
What I found fascinating about reading her journal is that I identified with a lot of her struggles.
I also found her point of view and the little descriptions of life at that time interesting.The only reason I didn't finish this book was that I had to return it to the library and other things were grabbing my attention.
He de reconocer que iniciaba la lectura del diario con una tremenda expectación, en parte por las buenas referencias recibidas y en parte por la vida que Katherine Mansfield llevó. Pero lo cierto es que me ha costado un horror terminarlo, pareciéndome muy lento y con caídas continuas en los conceptos de misantropía, soledad elegida, enfermedad y desasosiego. Le otorgo el valor testimonial que sin duda tiene, pero a nivel argumental, si es que un diario se puede valorar bajo ese prisma, es bastante farragoso.
This isn't a diary in the style of Virginia Woolf's, for example, but a selection of fragments - journal entries, unposted letters, ideas for stories - put together by Katherine Mansfield's husband, John Middleton Murry, after her death. He's done a remarkable editing job and produced a great book - its particular strength, for me, being in the way it reminds us to make the most of the life and the healthy times that we have, since she struggled so hard to work in the face of crippling illness and was so very frustrated when she couldn't.
I have not read this for some time. What stays with me is how KM suffered. (Perhaps a second reading would change this impression.) I admire her writing, he unique 'voice.'
Es muy difícil evaluar un diario de vida, porque son escritos personales de una persona.
De hecho, a veces me siento mal por andar leyendo intimidades de gente que jamás pensó que yo las leería.
Dejando eso a un lado, disfruté mucho esta lectura, aunque algunos años me parecieron más interesantes que otros.Debo reconocer que la faceta que más me llega al corazónd de KM corresponde a sus momentos depresivos.
De hecho, me alegró mucho la nota esperanzadora con la que termina su diario y creo que no podría tener un mejor final.
*Le quité una estrella porque no le gustan los perritos :(
Bits of gorgeous prose and insights into human nature in amongst the failings of her body as her health declined. I realize this is a very selected , carefully edited version created by her estranged husband after her death. Knowing that as I read the book made me deeply suspicious of the effect of his hand on her words.
Hermoso, fantástico, desolador. Todo eso es Katherine y mucho más y este diario lo refleja. Su mirada particular del mundo. Un libro que está al borde de mi biblioteca porque abro sus páginas con asiduidad.
Geen echt diepe bespiegelingen, maar heel erg aanwezig in haar 'nu'; Mansfield hield zich erg bezig met het de waarheid.
Haar Journal is niet een echte pageturner, enkele fragmenten heb ik twee of drie keer gelezen omdat het bij vlagen te mooi is om zomaar door door te lezen.
Mansfield schrijft soms zó scherp dat ze een beeld telepathisch door lijkt te geven:April 7.
When I had thought the day folded and sealed, came a burst of heavenly bright petals.
Arnold Palmer, reviewer in de tijd dat Katherine Mansfields Journal voor het eerst werd gepubliceerd, schreef ooit het volgende: 'What kind of journal is hers?
Funny, throughout my reading of Katherine's journal, I kept thinking and even saying out loud, "this women is NUTS"; Yet I readily I admit I found her deep feelings, thoughts and quirks to parallel those of my own.
She is completely and painfully self-aware of her souls sorrowful and self-defeating state but even her souls healing and personal growth become a source from which she strives to draw and achieve self-defined success.
While I have not read any of the many books/stories she has written, I am certain her beautifully poetic writing emerges like a butterfly during summer.

Sarà perché é la prima cosa che ho letto di questa autrice, forse pensavo di "conoscerla meglio", però Dio mio é un continuo leggere di com'é tempo e di lei che non riesce a scrivere. Lo so poverina che lei era malata però non lo reggo. Molto belle invece le parti in cui scrive micro racconti o descrizioni, delicate le sue osservazioni sulle persone e particolari momenti della vita.
"... and tonight I hate her - which being interpreted, means that I adore her; that I..." - Katherine Mansfield, journal entry, June 1, 1907
This is an author I've loved since before my literary studies. The journal documents a writer's struggle with terminal illness. I admire the tenacious spirit that shines through.
Heartbreaking. Enigmatic.
