https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92147.Map_of_Bones
Sigma is the good guy crew here, led by Grayson Pierce, this book's version of 007, ably assisted by his trustee buddy Monk and the relative newbie Kat. It comes complete with an opening action sequence that introduces the two antagonists.
James Rollins - from wikimediaThere is a secret afoot and a highly competitive treasure hunt in which Sigma tries to outpace not only the Dragon Court, a millennia old cult of alchemists and overall bad guys, but their hired team of assassins, the Guild, led by Pierce's personal enemy, the cold-blooded Dragon Lady.
4.0 stars. Second in the Sigma Force series (after Sandstorm), I can now see that this is going to be a great series. These books are incredibly quick reads with fast, well thought out plots. Even though they are quick reads, don't think there is no detail as James Rollins is a research fanatic and packs the book with a lot of interesting details from which he extrapolates some of the more "fantastic" plot devices. Think "Tom Clancy" meets "Fringe" with a dash of "Indiana Jones" and you will have a good idea what these books are about. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!
Great book! I love James Rollins. He's like a cross between Tom Clancy and Micheal Crichton. Right up my Star Trek/Indiana Jones alley!! I highly recommend his books to anyone who loves any of the aforementioned authors or movies. Basically anyone who is a geek like I am.
Not that the world of Sigma Force is all that believeable, well some of it is, like most of his books Rollins includes a lot of science in this book and most of it seems to stem from real stuff, but usually it's being used in a strange way or in an unbelieveable way that is more attributed to "action movie logic" than anything sometimes.
There's a bit of depth with the history stuff, there's fun action adventure moments and it's actually pretty well written.
Overall, this book was well written and the author's knowledge of the concepts and history integrated throughout the book is evident.
Characters are well developed, but there was one major flaw that I found which affected my perception of Map of Bones.
By the time I got to the end, I had no idea what the purpose of the whole adventure was.
I couldn't remember what the main characters were looking for.
I asked my friend, who recommended this book to me, about whether she knew, and she too couldn't remember what it was!
Conceptual- great.
Many of the people who've rated this book poorly have pointed out the many failings within it.The entire plot is absolutely ridiculous:You have an implausible group of so-called geniuses who also happen to be -supposedly- super agents, James Bond type of guys.
This is where we find the first of the book's many cliches, and to me, the first warning sign: The group is called Sigma Force (because Delta is already taken as a cliche, I guess)Then there's the "bad guys" - cartoonish, Dr. Evil type of bad guys, who are nothing but Yet-Another-Ancient-Secret-Society blah blah blah, yadda yadda, complete with an evil plot to rule the world or something.

lame characterization ("I am bad guy" *thumps chest* "must rape") - Seriously, if you're going to have a bad guy in your book, put a little bit of effort into why he's a bad guy.
I may have actually slapped my own forehead when one guy said "Do you know why Friday the 13th is considered unlucky?" The parts that weren't DaVinci Code were often Lara Croft: The Cradle of Life, which I like better.Otherwise it was okay?
After writing this all out I'm wondering why I didn't go with one star.
I've talked myself down to one star.
Like Da Vinci Code & Angels and Demons?? MUCH BETTER!!!,What a great read! Rollins has taken a great concept, the power of gold powder like that in manna and the ark of the covenant, and developed a fascinating story. The history behind the gold powder and the interest of US Special Ops and the Vatican are all explained in great detail with exceptional references to the historical support for all stated facts and assumptions. The biblical history behind this, much like that in The DVC or A&a
Rollins has taken a great concept, the power of gold powder like that in manna and the ark of the covenant, and developed a fascinating story.
Plot twists abound.I have read many reviews that compare this book to "The Da Vinci Code" and "Angels and Demons".
I am a huge Dan Brown fan and I loved The DVC and A&D, but I have to give credit to Rollins; this book was better on all accounts.
This was my second James Rollins book and I'm excited to read another.
His novels read like "beach read" thrillers, but not those you'd feel embarrassed about toting around a public poolside.
I'm a fan of fun mystery series like the ones written by Jeffrey Deaver and Harlan Coben, but with Rollins' books, I actually learn something.
I also love his author's notes following the texts that recommend many of the sources he used for his stories.
I don't imagine it's possible to read a tome on papal history while wearing a bikini, but I don't want to limit my sunshine reads to US Weekly, either.
DNF at around 60%..... Jus couldn't take the clichés anymore. I think we're upto 6 close shave escapes already with at least half of them being dead to rights. Enjoyed the first in the series but really should have stuck at that. Not for me is this.
Being pressed for time at first I thought to wind up this review with a one liner like "Brilliant, Imaginative and a Compelling Read" but the more I thought about it the more I realized this book deserved more than that.
As the trail left by the bones takes them deeper and deeper into the depths of Gnostic Beliefs in the Christian fate and shocking revelations that may even date back to the time of Alexander the great the SIGMA has more than just the secret organisation to deal with.
New to SIGMA, Pierce assembles a crack team of scientific and Special Forces operatives to unravel the mystery of the stolen bones, and together they set out on a twisting trail through a labyrinth of clues and dark revelations that carry them to the sites of the Seven Wonders of the World -- and to the doorstep of the mystical and terrifying Dragon Court.
Suddenly Pierce, Verona, and the SIGMA team are the hunted as well as the hunters, forced to use every skill they possess to survive as they follow the bones to the ultimate confrontation between darkness and light -- in a lost place of history where science and religion will unite to unleash a horror not seen since the beginning of time.
If this book is any indication of the type of books considered similar then I don't think I will be continuing on that quest.We have the tough guy military type and his team of sidekicks, one whom happens to have just the right background to magically be of assistance at crucial moments, the intelligent yet tough love interest, and the know it all type that will be giving the history lessons in the novel.
Pretty typical I would say for this type of book, yet I couldn't find myself really caring about the bad guys or the mystery.
And thus it is no surprise I enjoyed Map of Bones.This is a thrilling read full of likable (if not slightly generic) characters, exciting (if not slightly unrealistic) action, and plenty of plot twists and turns (some more surprising than others).
Sure, it's all a little formulaic, but if you enjoy this kind of thriller, you won't mind.
The final chapters tend to be a little heavy on faith, but that's not wholly unexpected in a book of this nature.All in all, Map of Bones is an engrossing read that will appeal to fans of The Da Vinci Code and Angels and Demons.
This is the 4th book by rollins that i've finished in just two seatings.
His books are like this.
U just cant stop cz there is always a rush.
Reading a rollins book is kind of like reading wikipedia.
Lots of information.
It kept me on the edge of my seat, and I did not want it to come to an end.The DaVinci Code and Dan Brown have nothing on James Rollins and the Map of Bones.
Whereas the DaVinci Code was a little beyond realistic, Map of Bones was believable, and in my mind, quite possible.3.5 stars.
Buku ini mengingatkan saya dengan Davinci Code, banyak sekali buku-buku serupa yang muncul paska era penerbitan novel dari Dan Brown tersebut. Jika Davinci Code banyak berpusat pada hubungan antar gereja dengan Maria Magdalena sedangkan disini konflik yang diangkat mengenai pengumpulan tulang-tulang Magi. Sudah banyak buku-buku serupa dan saya tidak melihat apa yang lebih menarik dari buku ini dibanding lainnya. Yang lebih parah lagi bagaimana akhirnya penulis memaksakan sebuah kisah cinta yang klise di dalam novel action spiritualnya ini.
I learned so much from this book and found Rollins' research to be excellent. I also liked the biblical and historical references and the visits to Maryland, Washington D. C., Cologne, Rome, Alexandria and Avignon France. The characters were very interesting with an adventurous plot with lots of action. Rollins is a great writer and his descriptions make you feel a part of the story. This is the 2nd book of the Sigma Force series and I look forward to continuing with the series. I would highly recommend this series to those who love Clive Cussler's or Steve Berry's books.
Excellent- one of my favorite authors, and I love this series- can't wait for the next one
idc's a little weakp65: the two bmws continued to pin the mini cooper.
no matter how rachel struggled, she could not pull free.the guns in the back seats swung forward.before the assailants could open fire, rachel shoved the car into park and yanked her emergency brake.
the car jolted with a scream of tearing metal.
the effort threw off the gunmen's aim, but it was not enough to free her trapped car.p86: "i know nothing except to escort you to the eliport."p280: he ate the gourmet meal, drank two glasses of red wine, watched some movie with julia roberts, even power-napped for forty-two minutes.
২০১৫ তে ডযান বরাউনের বই পডে ইবনেসিনা'র The Canon of Medicine ' পডতে উদবুদধ হইছিলাম ।পাঠযবইযের বাইরে ইংরেজী বই পডা হয নাই । নতুন পডতেছি । একটু উততেজনা থাকলেও এটা ২-৪ পেজের বেশী পডা হয নাই ।এখন মনে হচছে বইটা পডা আবার শুরু করি । পুরানো জঞান বলে কথা ! :3
২০১৫ তে ড্যান ব্রাউনের বই পড়ে ইবনেসিনা'র The Canon of Medicine ' পড়তে উদ্বুদ্ধ হইছিলাম ।পাঠ্যবইয়ের বাইরে ইংরেজী বই পড়া হয় নাই । নতুন পড়তেছি । এক্টু উত্তেজনা থাকলেও এটা ২-৪ পেজের বেশী পড়া হয় নাই ।এখন মনে হচ্ছে বইটা পড়া আবার শুরু করি । পুরানো জ্ঞান বলে কথা ! :3
I like mystical stories and adventures. This is the second James Rollins book I've read. The first were Sandstorm and I though it was terrible. This was better but not great. Reminds me a bit of Dan Brown. Good or bad? I don't know, but I give it three stars because of the interesting story.
کتابی نفس گیر! بدون توقف! مملو از غافلگیری های جانانه! با تشکر از انتشارات تندیس و جناب آقای امینی بزرگوار برای ترجمه و چاپ کتاب های خوب...
Uma aventura emocionante que mistura ciências e história.
Well researched story and rather interesting but confusing. I'll give another one a try and see if I like it any better.
Soon Grayson Pierce and his team, accompanied by Lieutenant Rachel Verona of Rome's carabinieri, are in a race to uncover who was behind the attack and why, leading them on a path through the Seven Wonders of the World.Map of Bones is the second book in the SIGMA Force series but it works well as an introduction to the series as the events and cast of the first book aren’t the focus in the second book.
Map of Bones is the second in the Sigma Force series and this one sweeps the reader through the secretive world of the Catholic church, a la The Da Vinci Code and Angels and Demons.[Snip] "During a service at a cathedral in Cologne, Germany, a band of armed intruders dressed in monk's robes unleashes a nightmare of blood and terror, ruthlessly gunning down worshipers and clergy alike."For those of us who appreciate well researched stories with intriguing plots, threaded through with factual details from history, this is another must read from Rollins.
This novel explodes from the very first page, and doesn't stop until the very end.
Anyway, the main idea of the book is that there is a secret hidden amongst the bones of the 3 Magi who came to see the Christ child upon his birth.
The secret...well, I won't give it away, but it fizzles out by the time the protagonists discover it.
This was no "DaVinci Code" when it comes to fantastic and unbelievably intriguing conclusions, but what it does offer is a fast paced read to bide your time until something a bit better comes along.
The book was a fast read which was nice.
The science parts were nice but the action sequences were tiring.
It seemed like I was watching a show on television that needed an action sequence for every commercial break.
I also do not enjoy books that you know that the good guys are all going to survive because it is part of a series.
The Harry Potter books were written for children and young adult and dared to kill off major characters this made the danger more real.In summary nice light read with formulaic action.
Not really my type of book anymore.
The plot was entertaining and moved quickly though a bit far fetched, and for me failed to generate a "willing suspension of disbelief" or to create the fascination with its subject matter or characters that have to be present to make such a story impressive.
The whole story line about monatomic gold, m state superconductors, alchemy, etc., is otherwise just a little too "out there."Throughout the book I was constantly reminded of Lester Dent & Co.'s pulp magazine Doc Savage stories.
And not of their best features.I thought the book was fun reading but not worth hanging on to.
I'm not especially likely to pick up another James Robbins work unless it's free.
