https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/191943.The_Man_Without_Qualities
This connection that can be made between words and your own immediate reality, that can change what you see by dilating wide that mind-eye that is so snidely audacious as to believe it does see and understand reality, so that it sees that this seeing and understanding is in no way so fixed into these proportions, this connection, that Musil is a master of, should define what is worth reading.
He has something to say about reality, even if it is only the notion, ‘stop what you’re doing until you figure out what is worth doing.’ “Active passivism,” is what Ulrich calls it when cornered by Clarisse, who later demands there should be a Year of Ulrich, just as a little voice in my head is demanding from my reading attention a Year of Musil.

Hayattaki her şeyden bahsedebilmek, hepsini böyle bi kurgu içinde biraraya getirmek ve bunu yaparken mikroskobik detayların ince derinliklerini ilmek olarak kullanabilmek... keşke bitirebilseymiş, kitap hakkında hissettiğim tek kötü şey bu; yarım kalıp insanı da havada bırakma hali...
başyapıt
The first volume makes it worthwhile reading, like watching the deleted scenes on the DVD of a movie you love, but I think Musil was writing a shorter novel than he thought he was and so after a while what he was bringing up from the well was dull and murky instead of refreshing and clear.
I'm more likely to go back and read Volume I again than I am to read the remaining 600+ posthumous papers and notes.
It happens after the transfer. The tedium, then the lurking state of thought-rush, irretrievable perceptions. It may be for three minutes or many hours. I no longer live in time. I am alone in the small cottage. It isn't that I have anything to prove. Simply, I want to be alone with my thoughts. The absence of the weight of another person's unspoken ideas became important. Oppression has become my medium. The transfer occurs in stages. It must be thought out first. Each stage etched into the mi
Also," since I was on a roll I put my un-quivered hand up to stop him, "there was a gem tucked in that basically said that any small thing that we do, stance we take, idea we explore, may appear insignificant at the time but may very well be the small piece that will lock other pieces together, which we will never know of."	"Yes," He reached into his trouser pocket, "I carry it with me." He held up two folded pieces of lined paper.
the people in the coupe looked a bit gruesome to that book.
in the evening looking out of the window of the hotel this is what i saw.
some fluffy clouds and birds gave it deepness and a private jet gave it even more deepness.likewise tmwq resembles to me a clear mind that is a framework for unbiased reflection.well if you happened to have read the glass bead game by herman hesse you'll maybe agree that tmwq is like a lucid twin.both in a fictive country i.e. castalia and kakania.
hesse received a nobel prize for his work.
tmwq on the other hand became nr.1 on the german list for most important books of the 20th century written in german.robert musil is deglamourizing life to it's bare nudity.
With the exception of the second part of the posthumous papers (which I intend to browse over time), I've finished.
I don't know how Musil could have finished this novel but the ample material he provided us is enough to make it worthy of comparison to Joyce and Mann.
(Retaining my sanity is also a consideration) I have gone through two bouts of insomnia while reading this book and, though it is probably unrealistic, I can't help but feel that some of the anxiety I felt in relation to morality and immorality (or what McBride, in his book on MWQ, calls "The Void of Ethics") stemmed from this book.
As if talking about Musil and his Man Without Qualities was still very rewarding in so-called intellectual circles, she was well placed to know that over the past twenty years, it had sold only dozen copies of this second part.
I have no doubt that this exceptional place that is Goodreads, it is quite different but just in case, however, I would stress the extraordinary interest of the contents of this second volume, without which the seizure of meaning the work would certainly be missed.
I read the whole sequence on the recommendation of Jeff Bursey. Probably a good 20 years ago now.
продовжую читати це австрійське занудство. читаю винятково заради Логвиненка, бо він був найкращий. поки що найцікавіше в романі - передмова Дмитра Затонського))
The quintessential 'ideas' novel, where twenty page long discourses on the meaning of love can happen after 'I love you'. It's thick and interlaced with meaning, and it works just fine that way. This edition had several hundred pages of notes and earlier drafts, which were also fascinating.
this is undoubtedly the most underrated book i have ever read in my entire life. amazing. i must have underlined somethign thought provoking on every second page.
Ο άνθρωπος χωρίς ιδιότητες , ο Ζαρατούστρα του Μούζιλ!
I've stopped reading in the fourth book, feeling that I was going where the novel itself had not gone -- through a final editing to a finished or abandoned work.
Perhaps it wasn't just my imagination that the attitude and writing seemed inconsistent with the earlier parts once one entered the fourth volume, the sensibilities seeming less finely honed, justifying Musil's dissatisfaction.The imminence of WWI hangs over the work, the date letting the reader know that everything described is going to change radically and often horribly very soon.
I plan to re-experience it in the shorter version by different translators published earlier, material Musil saw through publication.
On second read, this volume is much less interesting and enjoyable than the first. Musil's wonderful sarcasm and almost bitter humor are nearly absent and he grapples with "big questions" with much less grace.
There is more on a single page of this masterpiece than most novels hold in their entireties. It is a work of unparalleled genius (so don't ask what it's about, as I would not be able to say).
"ნუთუ ადამიანს მხოლოდ ინსტიქტები წარმართავს, მხოლოდ იმას აკეთებს, გრძნობს და ფიქრობს კიდეც, რისკენაც მოთხოვნილების არაცნობიერი ნაკადი და სიამოვნების საამო ბრიზი მიაქანებს, როგორც დღეს არის მიჩნეული?
იქნებ მაინც უფრო გონება ან ნებელობა წარმართავს, როგორც ასევე დღეს არის მიჩნეული?
თუ რაღაც კონკრეტული, მაგალითად სექსუალური, ემოციები მართავს, როგორც დღეს არის მიჩნეული?
ან იქნებ სექსუალური საწყისი კი არა, ეკონომიკური პირობების ფსიქოლოგიური ზემოქმედება განსაზღვრავს, როგორც ასევე დღეს არის მიჩნეული?
დიდი მამა , რომელიც მკვდარია იარაღით ხელში ბრუნდება, ან უბრალოდ, როგორც ასევე ნიცშე აღნიშნავს, ღმერთი მოკვდა და მისი მაგინებლებიც თან გადაჰყვნენ მას.
ინტელექტუალური, სულიერი და ფიზიკური სუიციდის ჩინებული ტილო.
Volume two of Musil's Masterpiece is slightly more focused than vol 1. Other than that its mostly more of the same. The hero, Ulrich, walks through life commenting on daily events. It becomes a literary version of the TV series Seinfeld, mostly about "nothing". Musil does have some original ideas and choice of words here and there but to me it overall just becomes many pages of rather dull musings.
“…By connecting no idea or every idea with myself, I got out of the habit of taking life seriously. I get much more out of it when I read about it in a novel, where it’s wrapped up in some point of view, but when I’m supposed to experience it in all its fullness it always seems already obsolete, overdone in an old-fashioned way, and intellectually outdated.”
So the War Ministry can sit back and serenely wait the next mass catastrophe.”I still have the Posthumous Papers to read, but the second volume draws the elements from the first into stark relief, the meandering path of thought and feelings builds and builds, a combinative essay of narrative voices, intelligent fully observed and realized - capable of deeply challenging each other’s points of view- yet still builds to a remarkable synthesis of the human creature’s capabilities and short comings in an age of relativism and materialism.
I thought every so often of Gaddis’s The Recognitions which seems to share a few of Musil’s concerns but doesn’t handle them with a quarter of deftness or genuine human feeling that Musil does.
Il me fallait aller lire ça tout de suite!J’ai donc été très agréablement surpris de découvrir que les 450 premières pages contiennent les premiers chapitres publiés de la troisième partie qui était alors en cours d’écriture lors du décès de Müsil.
Le niveau d’écriture y est d’ailleurs tout aussi brillant que l’est celui du tome 1 et nous pouvons ainsi suivre le cours du roman pour 550 pages.Ulrich s’est alors complètement lassé de se divertir de son ennui en servant de secrétaire à l’action parallèle.
Musil's continuation of 'The Man Without Qualities' takes us even deeper into the turn of the century continental psyche.
There are extraordinary additions to Musil's elaborate cathedral of ideas and characters, such as the brief visit to the asylum to meet Moosbrugger, the intriguing murderer and psychopath that haunts the imaginations of the elite within the Parallel Campaign.
Although the Man Without Qualities is an incomplete work, it remains as rich as any major novel of the 20th century; if only Musil had been able to endow it with the structural strength and form to bring it to a close as his primary literary rivals (Joyce, Proust) had done so brilliantly.
Well, I could no more ever really "finish" reading the material in this volume than the benighted Musil could finish writing his novel.
It's an exercise in fascination and frustration unparalleled in my reading experience.
The rich exploration of consciousness and how to live in a de-centered world continues but the story spins toward total entropy as the impossibility of what Musil was trying to imagine looms larger.
We still live in Musil's world.
That's the highest praise I can think to give the creator of any work of imagination.
Maybe I'm not smart enough for books of this kind, or maybe I'm just the one who says that "the Emperor is naked", but I will put this book into the same shelf as War and Peace - 1300+ pages of nothing that could satisfy me or keep me interested.
And I really tried to focus.
He was a demanding author and wanted to create books that are way too "technical", with every sentence being perfect.
And if you want to create a "perfect book", you will lose all those imperfections that are required for the book really to be an excellent one.
Зважаючи на час написання другого тому роману, в цей період Музіль вже встиг пережити пізню юність і кризу середнього віку, а його герой так і застряг у 1913 році. Не дивлячись на те, що сам Музіль в цей час мабуть змінив погляд на багато речей, Ульріх зрештою так і не набув жодних властивостей. Концептуальні відгалудження роману з часом перетворились у глибокі (наскільки це можливо) роздуми і відсіювання найдрібніших моральних переваг або недоліків всього Ульріхового оточення.
Anything I would say is not up to the task. A book like nothing else I have ever read. A daunting, but rewarding read. Not a short walk around the block for sure, but worth every minute. Among other things, a long exploration of contradictions, opposites, disjointed pairings, truth found at polar opposites....One of those books I know will stick in my head for a long, long time to come.
It's still unfinished - like Schubert
I think it's one of a kind so it's difficult to explain what it's like but if Thomas Pynchon's sensibility had somehow travelled through time and occupied the mind of Aldous Huxley he might have written something not too dissimilar.
Like Pynchon, the shaggy dog story seems to be the basic structure of the plot; like Huxley the characters are inclined to spend dozens of pages discussing philosophy in drawing rooms.It's a cynical, comic novel about life in the ruling class of the Austrian empire (the Hungarians are absent) on the brink of WWI.
It's long, but the major problem was that this edition includes all the unfinished sections and Musil's notes.
Well, they do add to the book for sure, but one ends up reading different versions of the same chapters and totally inconsistent story lines, so that takes a toll.
But really, it's just quite different.
Here, the main story line is the one between Ulrich and his sister Agathe and I did enjoy it.
The unfinished drafts and notes do add some depth to the relationship between Ulrich and Agathe, there are some gems there.
I'm very glad to have finally read this though!
