https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17156015-beauty-from-pain
JUST FUCK ME NOW.I need the second book like now now now!! For publishing houses and authors who leave us hanging on the edge of the cliff waiting for the next book...>>>> Let me first of all start by complimenting the cover of this book, which is absolutely brilliantly amazingly hot. Since Jack Henry McLachlan met Laurelyn Prescott... He broke every rule of the game he made for her.Its like he was breaking out of his own shell to reach out to her.[image error]Their chemistry was sm
JUST FUCK ME NOW.I need the second book like now now now!!
For publishing houses and authors who leave us hanging on the edge of the cliff waiting for the next book...>>>>
I loved the Author's writing style, it had such a nice flow in the pace and buildup of this book.The story was brilliant, the speed it was running on was amazing.
I enjoyed them all, can't wait to read more about both their families in the second book.
He’s rich, he’s one of Australia’s most eligible bachelors but he likes to keep his private life very private and he likes to remain in control and set a time limit – no emotional attachment involved.Laurelyn is a lovely heroine – she’s open, engaging, a little bit guarded and she’s about to be swept off her feet by Jack.
I really don’t give that fifth star out very often but this is special, a fantastic romance for all of you that love those Fifty Shades style trilogies and it’s only my second 5 star read of 2013 and Jack McLachlan is a new book boyfriend to melt into a puddle for!5 big shiny stars!!
★★★★★! Beauty From Pain, book 1 of 3. Aussie alpha multimillionaire extraordinaire Jack Henry’s blunt seduction and spellbinding romance of American girl, Laurelyn. A captivating, sexy and suspenseful read!   “When the three months is over, so are we. I'll move on and you will too. Because you won't know my name or any identifying information about me, you'll have no way to contact me. Ever.”   The Beauty Series is the whirlwind romance of Australia’s most eligible bachelor; handsome, controll
Aussie alpha multimillionaire extraordinaire Jack Henry’s blunt seduction and spellbinding romance of American girl, Laurelyn.
The Beauty Series is the whirlwind romance of Australia’s most eligible bachelor; handsome, controlling, elusive, oh so sexy multi-millionaire Jack Henry McLachlan and his American girl, aspiring country-singer with daddy-issues, Laurelyn Paige Prescott.
Both Jack and Laurelyn find themselves compromising and bending as a friendship develops and feelings come into play.The impending three-month date, marking the ending to their affair serves as a constant reminder making them both careless and desperate.
*****THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS*****Dont read further if you have a problem with it!This is a story about a girl name Laurelyn who goes to Australia on vacation with her best friend for 3 months..On the first night she's there, she gets all dressed up and goes to a bar with her friends...Standing across the room...
She doesn't care about the money..She's more scared because of her feelings for him...The more time she spends with his family, she knows the game has changed, she's fallen in love with him.She tells him...
3.5 starsI read this in one day, starting while having my morning cuppa -  Bushells  of course - and  Vegemite  toast for  brekkie.  Read it through morning  smoko  with another cuppa and a  lammie.  On through lunch while eating my  sanger.  And finished before dinner, which was a good thing as I wasn't sure I could  bog into  the  chook  I'd cooked or the  Tim Tams  for dessert. I'd had my fill of Aussie  tucker  for the day...Laurelyn Prescott, an American singer/musician has come for a three
3.5 starsI read this in one day, starting while having my morning cuppa - 
Jack McLachlan, is a wealthy Australian businessman and winegrower.
Not one for romantic relationships he sees Laurelyn and knows immediately she's the one he wants to make number thirteen on his list of companions.I did tell myself that I wasn't going to read any more of these FSoG/Bared to You type books.
And honestly the only reason I did was because of the setting in Oz and the Australian hero.
When almost 99.9% of the books I read are set anywhere but in Australia, one set in Oz 
I want to celebrate the release of Beauty From Pain and I'm in the mood for a giveaway. Help me spread the word and you could be the lucky winner of a 6 inch Kindle from Amazon Best of Luck! (Raffle will run February 2nd-9th.)Kindle Giveaway"They agreed on three months...but their love knew no boundaries."Beauty From Pain is the 1st novel in my newest Adult Contemporary Series. I absolutely can not wait to share Jack McLachlan and Laurelyn Prescott with you. It will be published on January 31, 2013 and the cover reveal is December 29, 2012.
“Baby, you’ve fucked with my mind without touching my body.”    Pure escapism. An engaging, entertaining multi-millionaire romance. It wasn’t a very emotional read for me but it did keep me turning the pages straight through the night till the sun came up I definitely got some Fifty Shades/Blackstone vibes off of this book (it was hot, but just straight vanilla, no kinky fuckery), so if you’re a fan of those, you should check this out for sure.When Laurelyn goes to Australia for 3 months with
It wasn’t a very emotional read for me but it did keep me turning the pages straight through the night till the sun came up I definitely got some Fifty Shades/Blackstone vibes off of this book (it was hot, but just straight vanilla, no kinky fuckery), so if you’re a fan of those, you should check this out for sure.When Laurelyn goes to Australia for 3 months with her best friend, the last thing she was looking for was a relationship.Meanwhile, Jack was actively searching for one.
Beautiful and talented Laurelyn Prescott is in Australia with her best friend to get over a broken relationship and to sort things out in her life and the last thing she wants is getting involved with anyone.Jack Henry McLachlan, is rich, sexy and gorgeous and one of Australia’s most eligible playboys, who does not do “love” or “relationships”, preferring to have very short and anonymous liaisons.When he first sees Laurelyn, he decides that she’s going to be his “next” ONE.
I adored these two – Jack, faced with feelings and emotions he has never experienced before, suddenly begins to think that he may want more than his original proposal to Laurelyn.
4 Love, agreements and so many feelings StarsThey agreed to three months...But their love knew no boundaries.When Australia's multimillionaire and most eligible bachelor Jack Henry McLachlan meets young American aspiring singer Laurelyn Prescott he thinks he found his 13th companion.
And Laurelyn will stay and prove to them both that they are above arrangements and simple sex or this one more blow will shatter her damaged heart?Sometimes when love is involved the lines between facade and reality blur and you become invested in the other.
Now, it’s my turn to keep my promise.I love you, Jack Henry, with every fiber of my being.
This pain is conceived out of beauty—my love for Jack Henry McLachlan.
I haven’t chosen her yet, but the woman who will share my bed for the next few months is sitting in this room right now.When I read Jacks first line in this book^ I thought he seemed like a bit of a creeper, let me assure you- he is not!
He notices her right away and gets information on her.Laurelyn is on a three month vacation with her best friend Addison.
Laurelyn sings for Lauchlan- they start to develop more of a relationship than either of them want to admit.
The pain is conceived out of beauty- my love for Jack Henry McLachlan.
Jack only do no-strings-attached relationships, where they both know exactly what they’re getting out of it, where neither of them know their real names and in the end they take different paths and never hear of the other again.
It’s fresh and it has some aspects that make it more original than other books of the genre.
;) Rating: 4,5 starsStoryline: A pretty common plot of rich-playboy meets girl and only want no-strings-attached relationship but end up wanting more.
Dual POV.Character Development: 	 Pretty good.
But it’s part of a series so I’m expecting a HEA in the end.
I sit in the dark corner and scan the room like a starved predator searching for prey.
I haven't chosen her yet, but the woman who will share my bed for the next few months is in this room right now.He has the ability to weaken my knees, and my body is no longer my own to control.
It belongs to him, to do with as he wishes.
I had a tough time rating this book, because as much as I liked certain parts of it, some parts of it just down right did not work for me.We have Jack Hen
I had a tough time rating this book, because as much as I liked certain parts of it, some parts of it just down right did not work for me.We have Jack Henry McLachlan, a multimillionaire that is looking to find a woman to have an "arrangement" with.
I also wish we were given a little more background into his relationship history, since I was left wondering why one of his ex "arrangements" was the only one that knew his real name.

Once upon time A few mistakes ago I was in your sights You got me alone You found me You found me You found me I guess you didn't care And I guess I liked that And when I fell hard You took a step back Without me, without me, without me And he's long gone When he's next to me And I realize the blame is on me Cause I knew you were trouble when you walked in So shame on me now Flew me to places i'd never been So you put me down oh I knew you were trouble when you walked in So shame on me now Flew me to places i'd never been Now i'm lying on the cold hard ground Oh, oh, trouble, trouble, trouble Oh, oh, trouble, trouble, trouble No apologies He'll never see you cry Pretend he doesn't know That he's the reason why You're drowning, you're drowning, you're drowning…
While out with her roommates, Laurelyn takes a guitar and microphone and wows not only the audience but also...Jack Henry McLachlan.
Jack Henry is a multimillionaire who doesn’t do real names or long term relationships.
All of these things happen with Laurelyn.During the three months the two learn about each other and engage in a seriously hot sexual relationship.
All the while the reality of what will happen at the end of the three months looms over them.
The pain is conceived out of beauty- my love for Jack Henry McLachlan.
Loving him will forever be my Beauty from Pain.” ~ Laurelyn
I really can't get this picture out of my head, so this is me while reading the book:  I mean, here we have these two people Jack and Laurelyn, who meet and land themselves in an agreement.  After 1,635 books with agreements/arrangements/contracts, I believe you don't need me to explain myself further.  So for 3 months they are practically attached to the hip. They are inseparable, cute, hot off the charts, they eat together, sleep together, go to trips together, confess their emotional loads to
I mean, here we have these two people Jack and Laurelyn, who meet and land themselves in an agreement.
So for 3 months they are practically attached to the hip.
Everything leads to that inevitable moment, right?
Now, it’s my turn to keep my promise.I love you, Jack Henry, with every fiber of my being.
Forever.LaurelynYour American girl.But I did fall in love with her, and now she’s gone.I’ve known pain my whole life, but this is a new kind for me.
This pain is conceived out of beauty—my love for Jack Henry McLachlan.
Loving him will forever be my Beauty from Pain.
♥♥♥ 4.5 Smoking Hot Jack Henry Stars ♥♥♥  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●They agreed to three months...But their love knew no boundaries.●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  Laurelyn Prescott needs to get away from Nashville for a while, because things at home are not going well. She decides to accompany her best friend Addison to Austrailia on a three month vacation, where they will stay at Addison's brother, Ben's apartment. Laurelyn isn't looking for anyt
Laurelyn Prescott needs to get away from Nashville for a while, because things at home are not going well.
I found Jack McLachlan to be very intriguing.So, it starts with Laurelyn's arrival to Wagga Wagga, Australia, where she pretty much has to avoid her best friend's brother Ben, as much as possible.
So I was able to get to know them at the same time they learned those things about each other.Overall, I really liked the story and characters.
I am so glad I waited for the second book to be out before reading this one, because the cliffhanger would have killed me.
This started off slow for me, I enjoyed the pace and style of the writing, However I did feel somewhat disconnected from the characters for the first part of the book.
The sub characters I didn't care for too much, but that rarely puts me off a book.
A big plus for me was the POV from both leading characters.The last 30% of this book was what made it for me, and I can't wait to read book two in the series, their are most certainly unanswered questions and I'm sure book two will live up to its predecessor.The official blurb sums this book up nicely.Thoroughly enjoyed this read, I connected with the authors style, their was moments of love, romance, unexpected kindness, friendship and hope and secret love.4 stars.
The more I’ve thought about it over the last week, the more I can truly say that I freaking LOVED it!Jack McLachlan is a rich, powerful, well-known businessman and is one of Australia’s most eligible bachelors.
I swear it feels like she’s looking right in my direction, singing to me.”“She has bewitched me.
As part of Jack’s arrangement, Laurelyn isn’t allowed to know his real name so he has her call him Lachlan.
The point of view switches back and forth between Jack and Laurelyn, which I absolutely loved.
The whole time you are wondering when or even if they will develop loving feelings and how that may change their arrangement.
Damn, my kindle was steaming at the chemistry between these two, sensational!Throughout the story, it is obvious that apart from the mind-blowing sex, Jack and Laurelyn genuinely care for each other, and I loved watching the easy, flirty affection between them develop into more as they both start feelings thing for the other that they never intended.
DEVOURED THIS BOOK!Holy cow, did I just read a book in practically one sitting? Allison does not read a book in one sitting. She doesn't. Until she read Beauty From Pain. I could not get enough of this story! Wow. But thank goodness I waited until a day prior to sequel release. That cliffy.....shame on you! And the stars of the show-  When Laurelyn decides to take a three month vacation with her friend Addison to Australia, she thought the time away from her budding music career and recent break
When Laurelyn decides to take a three month vacation with her friend Addison to Australia, she thought the time away from her budding music career and recent break-up with a married boyfriend would be good for her.
So Jack finagles a way to bump into Laurelyn at a vintage dinner.
He promises her the time of her life and when 3 months are up....they go their separate ways.
They gradually let each other "in." Laurelyn begins to know Jack (aka Lachlen) better than anyone.
But three months quickly arrives and can these two simply walk away from the feelings both of them know they possess?As I said, loved the book.
Will I read the next one - probably but won't be waiting with bated breath for it to come out.
I sometimes think I will not review the book then again I say to myself I am doing others a disservice by not giving my true opinion of it.
Maybe the problem is that some of these books are getting such rave reviews and 5+ stars that the expectations are going to be too high.
Has happened with a few other books I read also.
Looks like rain, so won't feel guilty staying in and doing that.
LOVE LOVE LOVED THIS BOOK !!!! ♥♥   Jack Henry and Laurelyn [image error]I'm so sad that this ones finished and I have to wait till May for the sequel. This book totally owned me from page 1.. everything about it! The chemistry between Jack and Laurelyn was so good and I just loved them together. I don't know exactly what is was in particular about this couple that affected me so strongly... I've read plenty of love stories, epic love stories, other stories with possibly more romance but somet
Jack Henry and Laurelyn
The chemistry between Jack and Laurelyn was so good and I just loved them together.
I love the back and forth pov's so we were able to see what each of them were thinking and feeling..
so Jack Henry take her to one of his Vineyards..As the weeks progress..
Laurelyn has fallen head over heels in love with Jack Henry but she knows this is only a temporary arrangment..
This pain is conceived out of beauty— my love for Jack Henry McLachlan.
Loving him will forever be my Beauty from Pain.[image error]
After I recovered from bawling my eyes out (over that letter!) I plunged into book 2 (Beauty from Surrender).So briefly, the plot: Laurelyn Prescott-- 23, beautiful brunette, fresh out of college, from Nashville, aspiring country singer/songwriter, daughter of a self-absorbed mother and never to be acknowledged love-child of a famous country superstar father.
I won't go beyond that with the plot except to say that Laurelyn eventually agrees, but then makes the mistake of giving her heart to Jack (or Lachlan, as he's told her) and is met with devastating heartbreak.
Jack Henry, despite your flaws, I loved you.
5 STARS!!! First off, I have to say this was my first read from Ms. Georgia Cates and it did not disappoint one bit. I loved everything about this book from start to finish it was an overall fantastic read. Here’s my casting on  Jack & Laurelyn (The book didn’t mention him having any yummyyy scruffy facial hair however I picture my Aussie with lol) :))) “They agreed on three months...but their love knew no boundaries.” It’s was just so hard not to love Jack Henry McLachlan, Laurelyn never h
I loved everything about this book from start to finish it was an overall fantastic read.
It’s was just so hard not to love Jack Henry McLachlan, Laurelyn never had a chance.
;) Can’t wait to find out more about Laurelyn and how she’s probably going to be a mega star like Jack predicted.BTW.
“Jack, you don’t always know the true worth of a women’s love until it becomes a memory” Get it together, Jack Henry.What the hell!!!
Side Note:Here’s a link on a YouTube video of someone pole dancing that’s beyond sexy, beautiful, and sensual.+ Plus the song is mentioned in 
Can’t wait for Beauty From Surrender to come out!!!
Why, why, why, why, why?Jack Henry McLachlan, I could just punch you in the face!
The writing was great, Jack was just scrumptious, and there was a kick ass heroine.
So, for three months Laurelyn and her friend, Addison, will be staying in Australia.Jack McLachlan is good-looking, rich, and one of the most eligible bachelors.
Laurelyn and Jack start their affair complete with aliases, a three month expiration date, and a no contact rule once it’s finished.
I didn’t love you the day I met you, or even a month later.
This pain is conceived out of beauty– my love for Jack Henry McLachlan.
So I'm writing this review whilst I am halfway through the second book, which is something I try to avoid doing.Firstly, I'm really really loving this series.
But then, I've been through a real run of books that haven't floated my boat, so I was beginning to wonder if I was needing some time away from my beloved Kindle.
The pain is conceived out of beauty - my love for Jack Henry McLachlan.
Loving him will forever be my Beauty from Pain.
Knowing I had to get up for work at 4am, I couldn't force myself to put Jack Henry and Laurelyn down until I'd finished the book at 2am!
I am so blown away by this book that I'm not even sure how to put it in to words, but I guess I'll try..Beauty from Pain is so unlike anything else I have ever read.
Yes we may have the broken heroine who is struggling to deal with a painful break up, and we may have the sexy billionaire, but apart from that everything else is so new.Laurelyn Prescott is embarking on a three month trip around the world to Australia with her best friend, Addison.
I can not wait to get back to some more of Laurelyn and Jack.

I wanted to read this for a long time, but I knew this was going to end in a cliffhanger, so I waited for the sequel to come out.
You know it’s only a matter of time, and when I do, I’m going to make you come so hard.” 
She knows she’s living in a fantasy and that it comes with an expiration date, but sooner or later the balloon is going to burst on the fantasy and real feelings start to emerge from both her and Jack.
I loved everything about this story and I’m happy that book two is immediately available to me because that ending was simply unacceptable.
No nakon ta prva dva poglavlja si pomislim kako bi joj ipak mogla dati priliku, svidjelo mi se ono što sam imala priliku u to malo vremena pročitati.
Ne piše hvalospjeve o njegovoj veličini uda ili izgledu iako se spomene kako on to lijepo izgleda u paketu, ali čovjek ne dobije onaj naporni doživljaj kada se opet i iznova opisuje jedno te isto.Na kraju vam moram priznati da sam jako zadovoljna onime što sam pročitala.
Jack wants nothing but a affair for 3months and nothing more just a fun time and sex.
Jack is a rich multi billionaire and possessive in a way but it wasn’t as bad as in the other books where you get this possessive men that is just over the top.
☺ I don’t want to give away too much of the story.
Promise”  HahahahahaThere are 2 things I want after this book:  1.
I want my hubby to take me to the Opera  hie hieI really enjoyed the book and I really hope you will also.
American musician Laurelyn Prescott is spending the next three months in Australia with her best friend, Addison.
Jack uses this date to extend his proposition to Laurelyn: They're together exclusively for the next three months, they use aliases, and at the end, they part ways without another glance.
Laurelyn accepts his proposal, with neither of them realizing that this relationship will end up like neither of them expected.
Even once she realized her feelings were growing, she was strong enough to accept that Jack hadn't signed up for that.
Full review when Goodreads stops telling me its 'over-capacitated' !!!!
BEAUTY FROM PAIN is a far from typical romantic story with a wonderfully unique premise.
BEAUTY FROM PAIN is a beautifully written, all engrossing story that explores the journey of a relationship that begins as a no-string-attached fling but ultimately blossoms into something else entirely.Laurelyn Prescott escapes her life as a musician in Nashville, with her best friend, to the “Land Down Under.” She is hoping that Australia will help mend her broken heart after suffering a nasty break-up and she plans to do this without the help of any man.
Click on the banner to read the review on the blog. Beauty from Pain has been on my to-read list for a LONG time. I recently went to a book signing in Tulsa, Oklahoma and was peeking around my audible account for books I haven't listened to and thought, "Hey, you should listen to this." The rest is history. I liked this book a lot! I thought it was the perfect, sweet and sexy romance for a freaking long drive. Georgia Cates, you made my boring road trip through Kansas so much more exciting.I thi
Jack falls in love with Laurelyn's southern charm.
It seems like EVERYONE can see how much they love each other except for the hero and heroine.
I did find it to be a stretch that Laurelyn truly believed Jack didn't love her.
But hey, I'm still going to read the next book.Audiobook Comments:I am not Australian accent connoisseur so I don't know if Robert Black's accent is very authentic.
I don't know if it was the accent or what.If you like accents, listen to this book.
If you like sexy narrators, listen to this book.
It's one of those 50 shades knock offs that came out when the they were still novelties - like two years ago.
This may be a case of "it's not you, it's me" in the sense that I waited too damn long to read this book.
The writing was ok enough but I felt it was a bit too simplistic at times which made for a quick read but a lack of any emotional depth.
I can kinda understand why it was such a popular book when it first came out though but I'd only recommended to people REALLY into very formulaic, watered down, non-bdsm versions of 50 Shades.
This makes dating a bit precarious.
In comes Laurelyn.
Laurelyn is a musician and she is looking for her way in this world.
Easy, right?After a few weeks together, Jack's walls start tumbling down.
Laurelyn finds herself doing things she never dreamed, and loving it.
Summer is coming to a close and Laurelyn must make a decision.
The only way she can walk away from Jack is on her terms.
The problem is that Jack may just want to keep her, but what then.
Laurelyn must figure out what she wants and go for it.
MAJOR FREAKING CLIFFHANGER!Still...
OMG I didn't know it was a cliffhanger! I was up until 2am reading this...seriously WHAT?? I went to bed crying...Please hurry up with the 2nd book!!!!! Enjoy some pics of Jack.....see full review on BEAUTY of SURRENDERJACK HENRY

I'm sorry but just NO.Though I finished it, I deserved to rate it even if I was so close to dropping it.
The writing was so IMMATURE.
It also looks like these two is of the same person with an alternate ego since they think and react the same.
Both are so conceited and irritating.
And I don't give a sh*t what they're doing every single damn second!
I don't know why I even bothered when I knew way before I started how it's going to end.
Another Fifty Shades rip-off and I don't need that kind of stuff again.
*akjdshasdgsdfgfs*
This started out okay, but then quickly took a nose dive. It was clichéd and just...Why oh why did I read this? My neurotic tendencies are going to have me completing the entire series.
It has been a while since I've read a New Adult book, so I decided to start Beauty from Pain, considering reading only the first one.
Laurelyn goes to Australia with her best friend Addison to visit Addison's brother, Ben. Desperate to move away from her recent heartbreak in the US, she welcomes that three months' trip that was much needed for fresh air and new experiences.
Even though Laurelyn is first not really thrilled by the idea, she soon became appealed by the thrill of it.Jack McLachlan owns several vineyard in both Australia and New Zealand, which makes him very rich.
Yes, there’s sex and it’s explicit and there’s a lot of it, but there’s nothing about it that I would label erotica.
I’m not sure how explicit sex can manage to be boring, but this author pulled it off.With all that said, here’s the real kicker….I’ll probably read the second one.
Don’t ask me how the author is going to fill a whole second book just to wrap this up, but I’m sure there will be enough snoozefest filler and there I’ll be at the end of May reading the stupid thing.
He’s played his usual game of secrecy and seduction.
He’s still got his money but this time he lost something of more importance -- he lost a part of his heart.
It’s also fun to watch Jack squirm as his feelings for Laurelyn deepen.
“Why was Jack so opposed to lasting relationships?” I was disappointed in what I felt was a feeble answer to this question.
Come summertime we’ll get the sequel and hopefully find Laurelyn and Jack Henry on the same continent working towards a happily-ever-after.
4.5 STARS.  "You don't always know the true worth of a woman's love until it becomes a memory."  Review to come ~
