https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6422.Four_to_Score
Book Review  4 out of 5 stars to Four to Score, the 4th book in the "Stephanie Plum" cozy mystery series, written in 1998 by Janet Evanovich. I was still playing catch-up on this series when I read this one several years ago. Hard to believe this series is nearly 25 years old. Wow! In this little caper, Stephanie's trying to find a waitress who causes lots of trouble. And she seems to have stepped it up a notch now that those who come in contact with her wind up dead. Then there's Joyce, Steph
Book Review
4 out of 5 stars to Four to Score, the 4th book in the "Stephanie Plum" cozy mystery series, written in 1998 by Janet Evanovich.
I was still playing catch-up on this series when I read this one several years ago.
In this little caper, Stephanie's trying to find a waitress who causes lots of trouble.
Then there's Joyce, Stephanie's arch-enemy who seems to be trying to kill Miss Plum.
Anyone live there who knows?
fun story, decent plot and lots of crazy moments.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Leave a comment and let me know what you think.
make your real "big bad" someone who is both the least likely person possible and someone who is vaguely connected to both stephanie's skip and whatever case joe morelli is supposed to be working on when he's not trying to sex up ms.
include a scene at the end where stephanie almost gets killed by the big bad but is rescued by one of her many colorful sidekicks9.
i laughed out loud several times, my favorite involving a scene where sally sweet (stephanie's new transvestite sidekick), lula (the 250 pound former hooker who helps stephanie), grandma mazur (the gun-totin' grannie who looks for "babes" and dresses like her granddaughter) and stephanie (the bounty hunter) get held up at knifepoint.
I am a fan-girl when it comes to this series and find JE to be one of the best authors out there in ability to make people laugh, even when confronted with some really tough themes and situations.
So, this time around Stephanie is after a waitress who has jumped bond after making free with her boyfriend's car.
Lula and a new character, a smart, cursing, and very unlikely transvestite named Sally, as well as Batman, aka Ranger, have Stephanie's back and attempt to help her with variously disastrous results.
Just please, read it for the good light-hearted fun it is meant to be!
"You're Calamity Jane in fucking Spandex!" True. Stephanie manages to get not one, but two cars blown up in this book, along with her apartment. It might be some kind of record. But, the good news is that with no apartment (and let's not even mentioned that poor Rex's life was endangered again) we find Stephanie in need of a place to stay. A safe place. Like maybe with a certain good-looking cop that she played doctor with at the age of 6??So, in this one Stephanie has a simple job: bring in a
Stephanie manages to get not one, but two cars blown up in this book, along with her apartment.
But, the good news is that with no apartment (and let's not even mentioned that poor Rex's life was endangered again) we find Stephanie in need of a place to stay.
Like maybe with a certain good-looking cop that she played doctor with at the age of 6??So, in this one Stephanie has a simple job: bring in a waitress that took her boyfriend's car on a joyride.
He gets caught up in chasing down the waitress, along with Lula - the ex-hooker from the last book.
So glad I read through to this, the fourth book in the Stephanie Plum series.
^_^I also rather enjoyed Stephanie's coming more into her own as a bounty hunter.
There are fewer HUGE coincidences, and more instances of Plum taking matters into her own hands...as well as being more cognizant of the danger and risks she faces in her line of work.In sum: the book was funny, with endearing characters and a compelling mystery.
I told myself that I'd take a break after this book (to get a taste of something different), but now I'm not so sure I can keep to that.
Great book! Fun!! What's not to love about Sally? Also, love that when Steph and Joe finally get together, it's not 'love ever after', "let's pick out china".Reread- March 2018
When Maxine's friend loses a finger and her mother gets scalped the chase really starts to heat up and it looks like Maxine is in a lot more danger that Stephanie could have imagined.I really struggle to write reviews for this series, not because I don't love these books but because I just want to rave like a lunatic about how fantastic they all are.
We're planning on reading one book a month so it'll be easy to keep up with if anyone else wants to join us :o)
Audiobook read by C J Critt3.5***This is book four in the popular Stephanie Plum series.
The earlier books in the series are very entertaining, but I lost interest after about book 12.
I re-read this one because it’s fast, enjoyable and fits a challenge.
C J Critt is barely passable reading the audio book.
Her delivery is S L O W … with L O N G pauses at scene breaks.
This should be a fast, snappy delivery.
the first date read is a wild guess based on having listed book 11 in the series as read in 2006.
Joyce is a sneaky and sexually manipulative character that clearly has no lines drawn, nothing she wouldn’t do to get her way.“Yeah, but remember that Joyce person came in real early on Tuesday morning,” Lula said.
Sally and Grandma Mazur share several moments that just crack me up.“Sally’s a drag queen,” I explained to Grandma.“No kidding,” Grandma said.
My gun wouldn’t fit in my purse.”Joe Morelli and Ranger continue to play interesting roles in this book.
(I’d like to say yay!) I do not recommend this book to anyone that is not an adult.Happy reading!
I don’t have anything new to say about this series. Every sequel is funnier than the last. But with this fourth book we finally see a turning point in Steph and Joe’s relationship. YAAAASS FINALLYYYYY. What happens next is HILARIOUS: neither of them say anything but somehow Joe’s family think they live together, then that Steph is pregnant, then that they are getting married, and lastly that they’re already married. Obviously, as if it weren’t enough, the news circulate to the entire Trenton city.I loved that hahaha 😂
Two things I learned from this book...everyone in the Burg carries a gun and the women of the Burg seem to be carrying the biggest guns.
Secondly, my life is completely boring compared to Stephanie Plum.
In Four to Score we can add yet another blown up car to Stephanie's list not to mention her apartment which is torched which leads her right into the arms of Morelli.
Add a Grandma Bella and a Grandma Mazur to the story and you've got yourself one heck of a book...I finished this book and kept right on going with High Five.
Another great book by Evanovich!!
"I want to shoot him," Sally said. "Nobody'll tell, right?" "No fair," Lula said. "I want to shoot him." "Okay," Grandma said. "On the count of three, we'll all shoot him.” Can't remember when was the last time I watched a TV show, because every time I think about doing it, I realize I actually want to get back to this series.I swear they're like an amazing Netflix show, just that instead of episode after episode, I'm binging book sequels.So glad there's like 64839272519204728 of them left.
:) (What a lucky girl!!)I think my next read shouldn't be a Stephanie Plum book.
As much as I love Evanovich & she always has me laughing I just think reading a Plum book one right after the other is making them not *as* good to me.
This was the last of the first block of these I read, as I was missing (or at least thought I was missing) 5 & 7 and, while I was looking forward to moving on, I think I needed the break just to get my breath back!This series seems epitomise one of my problems - the guilt of a Catholic catholic reader.
There's swearing and sex and mayhem and silliness in these books that a good person and intelligent reader would despise, but my voracious appetite for the written word, irreverence and black humour mean that I can't resist reading them, and enjoying the process, even if there's a nagging voice in the background telling me to get back to the more worthy 1001 list.
Another bounty hunter adventure of Stephanie Plum. This novel finally broke the dry spell in Stephanie's sex life. It was funny, sassy, chick and entertaining! Lula is slowly driving up on my list of kickass female characters.
3 for the story, adding half a star for the laughs. If you're looking for a book to listen to at 3am when trying to find the sandman, this series is a good choice. It's a little violent for me, but the laughs make up for it. A nice escape read.
These books are great for if you are in a funk. I cannot see how anyone could read one without laughing out loud all the time. (It upsets my dog when I do that.)In this one, once again Stephanie can not get a break. But at least she gets laid - frequently. Drag queens, arson, and counterfeiting - as well as old high school enemies who are still enemies. What fun!!
I enjoy these books because they make me laugh out loud. Grandma Mazur, Lula and all the ridiculous comments that get made! And I like to see if I can figure out the mystery before it's all revealed...Book 4 was fun and I'll do book 5 soon!
Sexy! My favourite book in the series yet! Team Joe foreverrrrr. And, as per Stephanie Plum, absolutely hilarious!
Many people love this series, to me it's just one of these nice reads.Stephanie is given a new task, she has to find Maxine, a girl accused of stealing her boyfriend's car.
Stephanie will need some help from her friends while also meeting some new interesting people.
Soon catching Maxine becomes only one of Stephanie's problem.
The story of Maxine, as complicated as it is, isn't really grabbing.
Some jokes seem a bit overused and already known from the previous books.
The best part of this book is Sally who brings a bit of fresh air to the story.
She’s a bounty hunter.
In the fourth book of the series, Stephanie is after Maxine, a first time offender who stole her boyfriend’s car after a fight.
The problem is Stephanie is not the only one after her.
She still has Lula, a 200 lbs ex-hooker in hooker clothes, Grandma Mazur, who is always up for anything especially when it involves guns and criminals, Joe Morelli, stud-muffin (in Grandma Mazur’s words) and Ranger, superhero bounty hunter.
I’d recommend reading the first three books before reading this one, in order to know who is who, and appreciate each character to their fullest.
I'm really starting to have a problem with how often Janet Stephanie thinks of overweight people as "fatties." Stephanie eats like a pot-smoking college kid, she just happens to have a pretty decent metabolism so she doesn't put on the pounds.
I love these books, don't get me wrong, but I find it hard to love a character who looks down at other people who share her weaknesses.
And I'll never understand why some authors feel it's fine to body-shame people of any size.Knocking two stars off this one out of sheer frustration, which is a shame, since this is the book that introduces Sally & he's one of my faves in the series.
Four to Score by Janet Evanovich is the 4th Stephanie Plum novel. Bounty hunter Stephanie Plum is assigned t bring in Maxine Nowicki who is charged with stealing her boyfriends car and becomes targeted by a crazed fire bomber as well as a counterfeit ring. Another fun, light read with plenty of action and laughs. I love all the characters and their eccentricities and various talents. Always have a fun time with this series.
Hilarious read.
I've enjoyed this series up to this point.
It took a turn down the sleazy and raunchy road.
A cross dresser is one of the main characters and I wasn't impressed.Lula was funny, always wanting to shoot something or someone.
She shot out a tire while a lady sat in the driver's seat to get rid of the pest.
"Can I shoot him," Lula argued with two others when a would be thief tried to steal their purses.
Stephanie, the calm one, told them they couldn't shoot anyone.Hopefully, the series gets back to character and plot and stays away from rated x sex scenes.
Fix-ups are always awful.- StephanieHe's not my type.- StephanieWhat's wrong with him?- MomHe's got too many buttons open on his shirt.- StephanieI couldn't stand fucking singing all those fucking songs about fucking hearts fucking breaking and fucking goldfish fucking going to heaven.
You keep going like this all your nose hairs are gonna fall out.- LulaYou are a dysfunctional human being.- StephanieOh yeah?
Well, you're fucking frightening.- MorelliAre you saying you're afraid of me?- StephanieAny man in his right mind would be afraid of you.
Dangerous hair, babe.
And if you procrastinate long enough, maybe the issue will go away.
Unfortunately, this issue wasn't going away.
here is a series of my tumblr posts that relate to this book and others of its ilkpost 1: does janet evanovich integrate the cast of jersey shore into her later stephanie plum novels?those are really the only things i know about nj other than the fact that it smells like shit as you’re going into nyc.
this is my bread and butter when i can’t find anything smarter to read.i love tess monaghan for the baltimore and i appreciate temperance brennan for the science, but i think stephanie plum is the best written of the three separate series.
I've made a new pact with myself.
I am not going to apologize for reading books that lack any real intellectual value.
However, since I do read plenty of good and worthy literature, both fiction and non, I am not going make excuses.
Same sort of formula going on as the other books.
Stephanie getting involved in finding a fugitive whose story is more complicated than just the "I skipped out on my bail" sort of thing.
It's a formula and it works for me.
And again the vulgarity, which might be worse here because of a new character.
Another glorious tale in the saga of Stephanie Plum, A.K.A. aqua net welding, car destroying bounty hunter.Hilights include:1. Sally the transvestite in all his glory (I think he may curse more than me which is an impressive feat)2. Tula experiments with the taser3. Stephanie moves in with Morelli, hello #9 and #10, it's about freakin time
This was a light funny enjoyable read. The characters are developing well. I thought the plot was a bit boring though but there was a good mixture of action and humour. Three stars.
