https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/845977.A_Return_to_Love
This book changed my life, but I NEVER recommend it to anyone because it found me at a time that it could provide answers to my own personal questions. It has, of course, a huge following and the backing of its own sizeable foundation, so obviously I am not the only one who was able to gain from it. Anyhow, if it finds you, may it find you lost and leave you found, as it did for me.
This book is the source of the famous quote which is often misattributed to Nelson Mandela, "'Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate.
It is our light, not our darkness, that most frightens us'....." I mostly read the book because it was the source of this famous quote.
56).Actually one of my favorite quotes from the book isn’t the famous one.
He’s saying that everything else of this world will fall away—(as Marianne Williamson would say everything else is an illusion) but only charity is lasting and will bring true happiness.One of my favorite anecdotes is a good way to sum up the book.
In fact, her jokes are canned, as in this one she told a couple of years ago, which in fact came from her first book published in the 1990's: "I studied with an Indian guru, but I wondered to myself: what does he know about life when he doesn't even date?"  As Marianne herself repeatedly states, A Return to Love is "Cliff Notes" to A Course in Miracles, which is often considered the scripture of the New Age. However, because the Course is a channeled text that sees Christ in everyone and forgiveness as the sole purpose of life, it can be hard to decipher for the average reader.
I suggested that a healing would come from his sending his father lots of presents now.[Ed. note: this section was not followed up with any results of the man's attempt to heal his relationship with his father by overcompensating for his own deprivation.]Best example of not actually answering someone's question:Once when I was lecturing in New York, a young man stood up and asked me about affirmations.
Scene ends without follow-up.]Best example of lovely New Age advice with no follow-up, therefore disallowing her readers to see any tangible results:I told my [politician] friend that the key to a successful campaign would be to surrender the campaign to the Holy Spirit and ask that it be used as an instrument of His peace.
If this quote from the book doesn't get you, then it isn't for you (Although I first read it 20-odd years ago, it still gives me a smile on a cloudy day)....“Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate.
Our deepest fear is that we are powerful beyond measure.
You are a child of God. Your playing small doesn't serve the world.
We are born to make manifest the glory of God that is within us.
And as we let our own light shine, we unconsciously give other people permission to do the same.
I normally don't rate books that I finish as one star but I simply had to with this nonsense. The author is clearly clueless about the real world. I did limp to the end of this but it was a truly painful experience and I was tempted to throw the book against the wall, and/or light it on fire several times.
As anyone who's seen my frequent updates on here could probably tell, A Return to Love was a gut check and affirmation of so many things I've been feeling, experiencing, and processing lately.
It's been on my list for a while, but reading it now felt like divine timing given the other things occurring in my life at the moment.
Williamson does use Christian symbols and figures throughout the text, but because the foundation from which they're coming is so focused on love, it doesn't feel like a Christian conversion ploy like some other books may.
I am my stubborn mother's willful daughter, to be sure.I have not read A Course in Miracles, but if this book accurately translates its principles (and there's no reason to think it doesn't), ACIM is a mixture of Eastern (Hindu, Buddhist) and Western (Judeo-Christian) philosophies, heavy on the Western/Christian.
I'm not sure that as a philosophy, ACIM would survive deep scrutiny—and there are plenty of skeptical and Christian sites on the web that state just that.
Science of Mind (not to be confused with Christian Science & Scientology) is a way of approaching strength and struggle by framing ones mindset to see results.
I am very objective, and open minded, so I try to use spiritual helps as all positive things and glean wisdom from them and apply it to various groups and individuals.
I would dare say that this wonderful book, A Return To Love is filled with many Judeo /Christian principals and prayers.
I think you will see results and agree that much of her advice is sound and spiritually positive.
Ok, this book is what every confused cristian needs to read!
So I think that a lot of us end up giving up on religion and God. Big mistake!
God is Love, that is what I learned through this book.
Yes..you've heard that a million times before but after re-learning it through this book you will finally comprehend just what that means.
We are made to the image of God who is Love.
Words could never explain how grateful I am to have read this book at my age...it avoided many years of wandering through life feeling confused, lost, and alone.
This is, quite simply, one of the best books on spirituality and self-help ever written. I cannot recommend it highly enough.
Wow. I really need to read it again. This book spun me on my head. The almighty EGO was more powerful than I had realized, and it's such a relationship spoiler!
I had such high hopes for this book, and it was but I didn't expect the religious turn the book took on me.I have loved the quote from Marianne Williamson ever since I first heard it in a yoga class during meditation (and still do): Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate.
I had no idea about the turn this book would take with the constant role of the Holy spirit and God as the author articulates each and every one of her points.
There were some quotes that I copied down, finding resonance in them:"You are a child of God. You were created in a blinding flash of creativity, a primal thought when God extended Herself in love.
Your job is to allow the Holy Spirit to remove the fearful thinking that surrounds your perfect self, just as excess marble surrounded Michelangelo's perfect statue.""When we choose to love, then life is peaceful.
Focusing on their innocence sets us free.""Do you prefer to be right or happy?""Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate.
And as we let our own light shine, we unconsciously give other people permission to do the same.
I have yet to find a book or an Audio book that reaches as deep into you as this one does.
I have listened to 100's of Audio books over the years, and have not found anything close to this one.
Deepak, Millman, Lucado, Dyers, and as much as I hate to say it, even Mariannes other audios don't hold the magic this one does.
If you have not listened to this audio book yet, and are looking for some spiritual enlightenment, you have no idea what your missing out on here!
The best Audio book I have EVER listened too!
I knew of this book for a long time, but never read it.
However, after a difficult breakup with my fiancee, it was recommended that I read this.
Actually, one of the main reasons why i never read it is because I thought it was for women (a chick book).
Swallowing my pride and needing something profound to read, A Return To Love was exactly what I needed.
Also, as a hardened military guy; I allowed myself to 'feel' her experience through me.
I'm happy that i allowed myself to loosen up and be healed by reading this great book.
Williamson presented them in a way that, if I didn't already know they were Christian, I wouldn't have known they were related to a particular religion at all.
And I never felt as though she was pushing religion at all; everything was kept very open and she acknowledged the fact that not everyone will see things eye-to-eye with her.I can't evaluate the actual principles suggested in the book, since they are not Williamson's own ideas, but I can comment on her extrapolations.
Oh my goodness!This is by far the most inspirational book i have ever read.There are times...wait..not times...for my entire life, i haven't understood myself.
This book has borrowed my intelligence, and just give me one reason to add more to it.LOVE.
This is all, and i hope i see more meaningful thoughts and reasons to start afresh.Im going to follow precisely through my life with a purpose of happiness, faith, forgiveness and true love.Bless me in such a difficult trail; yet possible.Taymara.Im done!
read for a friends spiritual book club she is hosting.I was unimpressed for a couple of reasons.1.
I think this book is a little too "this is what God is".
I'm always uncomfortable with anyone who attempts to define God to me ~ especially Marianne what's her name?!
Someone who read another set of books and course stuff and is writing about what she experienced.
I'm not a big fan with self help books.
I'm through my time angsty years and have moved comfortably into my 30's with a happy husband and lovely children.
Will I need a self help book in a year?
One of my favorite quotes is in this book..."Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate.
Our deepest fear is that we are powerful beyond measure.
You are a child of God. Your playing small does not serve the world.
We are all meant to shine, as children do.
We were born to make manifest the glory of God that is within us.
And as we let our own light shine, we unconsciously give other people permission to do the same.
As we are liberated from our own fear, our presence automatically liberates others."
"Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate.
Our deepest fear is that we are powerful beyond measure.
It is our lightnot our darknessthat most frightens us.
We ask ourselveswho am I to be brilliantgorgeoustalentedfabulous?
Actuallywho are you not to be?
You are a child of God. Your playing small doesn't serve the world.
There's nothing enlightened about shrinking so that other people won't feel insecure around you.
We were born to make manifest the glory of God that is within us.
And as we let our own light shinewe unconsciously give other people permission to do the same.
If we all focused more on love than fear, what an amazing place this world would indeed be.
I have never read nor do I know much about A Course in Miracles so I can't speak to that material.
What bothered me a little about this book was her real-life examples to certain passages in A Course in Miracles.
It may be that when she wrote this, she was in a difficult place when it came to romantic relationships.
Those examples seemed to permeate this book.
I don't know why but it bothered me.
Worst book I have ever read. I couldn’t even finish it...other people might find it helpful and insightful, but for me... it just didn’t click. It made me feel rather bad.
I don't particularly believe in prayer, but again I was able to overlook this in order to follow the message of the book, which really is about love.However, things got a bit sideways around Chapter 8.
There is beauty and positivity in focusing on giving love and paying attention to your inner light.
However, I would only recommend this book with a warning clause that some of the statements made by the author suffer from the archaic (and potentially dangerous) thinking that plagues most theologies.
I think it's worth a read if the Course attracts you but feels like too much when you go through it.
They’re sent so that you can give them love.After I said the prayer and got the feeling that my store was a church, I understood that my only job was to love the people who came there.
Not everyone bought a book every time they came in, but people began to consider me their bookseller.
People might not know where it comes from, but they can feel it when love is being sent in their direction.
Like another reviewer said, I mostly picked this book up because I wanted to read more from the person who said: "'Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate.
When we turn away from love, then life is painful, the meaning of hell.
They indicate the limits to our capacity for forgiveness."However, it also framed things in examples that for me felt dated or fell flat.
I think illness, like all aspects of life, can be a source of learning, but her description of it sometimes almost felt like suggesting the ill became so because they had something specific to learn.
I'm not sure how I would have felt about this book if I had encountered it 5 years ago, but between then and now, I have worked with a personal coach and started my own personal growth journey.
Not only that, but the concepts in the book are helping me know how to react to her situation in a healthy way that hopefully will contribute to her ability to heal herself.This book is not for everyone, but if you have begun to explore the concept that it is our thoughts that mold our own reality, then you may be ready for “A Return to Love.”[I listened to this as an audio book read by the author.
A Miracle is a shift of perception.Our value cannot be compromised.There's no monopoly over God.Love is a force to be recognized.The Universe sees us the way we see ourselves.Fear is Our Worst Fear, Our Greatest Obstacle & Our Worst Enemy.Seeking Oneness rather than separation.If we think we are not enough we will never accept those who do!Children don't know & know they don't know & in that lies their greatest strength.
And as we let our own light shine, we unconsciously give other people permission to do the same.
As we are liberated from our own fear, our presence automatically liberates others.”Do What You Love.
I was torn between a 2 and 3 rating for this book.
Though not a strictly religious person, I could deal with the light religious tone in the beginning as it seemed more to supplement the messages she was trying to get across.
However, as the book continued, the religious themes seemed to become more the purpose of the text, though oddly coupled with examples from her personal life that often seemed to contradict themes from previous chapters.
The book supposedly focuses on love and serving God, yet in her examples she was often meanly sarcastic and self-righteous, which ultimately turned me off of the text.
Words cannot express my distain for this book.
If someone recommends this book, they do not understand relationships.
It pains me that there are counselors like the one who wrote this book that suggest such things as "pink and blue sunglasses".
A book that says women wrote to him who were in abusive relationships and because of this book, knew they needed to respect their husbands and things would change, if pure mockery of the art of therapy and everything I stand for.
If you're having marital problems, please find a counselor that is competent and don't read stupid "how to make your marriage better" books.
