https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140131.The_Three_Little_Pigs
When I was a child of threeSitting on my mother's kneeShe would read this tale to meI would listen as she spokeOh, what magic she'd evokeIn the child that once was me.Then my children gathered roundListening with gleeCreating memories of that timeWhen mum read this tale to meMy grandchildren come to stayOne sits upon my kneeYou cannot hear the smallest soundTheir eyes are filled with gleeWhen I read this tale to themThat my mum read to me.
***Read and reviewed with my niece Emma***(When she was 4 and I was 41)The greatest story ever told?
Quite possibly!I think it's Emma's favorite, even though I don't think she's quite caught on to the think-ahead, strength-in-numbers, build-it-to-last concepts yet.
By the time we're done with this story I'm going to need a wind machine.I believe the Little Golden Book version was the one I had as a kid.
The one Emma and I read was different.
Little bit odd how kids' books do that.
We've read it a number of times and will no doubt continue to read it again and again.
Read this a s a child, but would still say it's an enjoyable story. I will never grow out of loving it.
The pigs know they have to build their house. But the reason Ive always loved this book is it shows the differences among the siblings and it is much like real life. There is usually one who has to take care of the others mistake and they don't ask questions, just open their doors to family. I wonder why they never went back to moms house??Theme- brothers, mistakes, survival, sticking together
The three little pigs is one of the classic fairy tales that every kid knows. This book does it justice.
This is an amazing book, the story is beautiful, strongly recommend to BQ, he will love it
The all time favorite book of mine as a child. I made my father read this to me every night I loved it so much.
I enjoyed "Three Little Pigs" by Al Dempster, because it is a little kid’s book but it also allows you to think like a kid again.
The three little pigs are trying to find a way to keep their houses strong to keep the big bad wolf away.
The theme I noticed in the book "Three Little Pigs" was staying strong together.
Not only in this book do the pigs stick together but you always need that one person by your side through everything in life.
This book is adorable and has cute pictures that anyone could enjoy.
There are three little pigs who know that the wold is coming.
The three little pigs decide to go their separate ways and build their own houses.
As the story continues, the wolf blows down house one and house two.
The little pigsFrom house 1 and 2 run to the third house.
The wolf cannot blow this house down, so he tries to force himself in.
The three little pigs come up with a plan and the wolf ends up with a burnt behind and runs away.
I truly love this book especially because I have three little pigs of my own.
Love this book.
different edition but wasn't sure which one... aka lazy >
The three little pigs is a classic. It is a fun book for all. It may not have a plan win the classroom as a teaching book but it could be very fun.
One pig made his house out of straw, the other one out of sticks and the third brother built his house out of brick.
At the end the wolf couldn’t blow the house built out of bricks, so he decides to enter through the chimney and he fell and died.
The main themes are patience which the book shows us that It’s not about building stuff in the fastest possible way, but about taking your time and making it right.
The first two pigs, decided to make the house in the easiest possible way just to finish quickly and as the story goes by, they ended up dealing with consequences.
This story is about three pigs and a wolf’s journey.
I rated The Three Little Pigs by Al Dempster five stars because of the dramatic illustrations, plot, and use of language.
The illustrations capture the wolf’s evil expressions and the silliness of the pigs.
The plot shows repetition, but remain exciting, and the use of language is seen through the illustrations.
When reading other versions of this book I often wonder if there was ever a story telling the wolf’s side of the story – children would love to hear a version of that story.
This book has not received any awards.This book is appropriate for ages K-2.SummaryThree little pigs decide to build their own houses out of different materials including straws, sticks and bricks.
Both the illustrations and words are extremely simple and young readers can easily chime in with the repetitions or utilize it as an independent read.
In class usesThis book can be used as a science lesson about materials and how strong some are in comparison to others.Another way this book can be used in class is by doing a book study and comparing the many different versions of the three little pigs that have been written over time.
2. The Three Little Pigs written/adapted by Golden Books and illustrated by RH DisneyNo AwardsGrades: Preschool- 2 The Three Little Pigs is a folktale about three pig brothers who each build their own houses. One out builds his out of hay, another sticks, and the last bricks. It tells the tale of the big bad wolf and how he comes to mess up the pigs houses. The first two pigs run to their other brother for help and he saves them. The Three Little Pigs has a lot of words and pictures that corresp
2.	The Three Little Pigs written/adapted by Golden Books and illustrated by RH DisneyNo AwardsGrades: Preschool- 2 The Three Little Pigs is a folktale about three pig brothers who each build their own houses.
The first two pigs run to their other brother for help and he saves them.
This book could be used in the classroom to talk about the importance of doing things the right way even if it takes a little longer.
It could also be used to talk about how it’s important to help others.
Reminds you the lesson - think and work hard.
When I was a little girl I loved this book so much!
Pretty much the perfect book for children. Sing-song parts, rhymed parts, great illustrations, and a good moral to the story. Little Golden Books are the best. Love.
NoneK- 3This book is about three little bigs who decide to go their separate ways to build their own houses after knowing that the wolf is coming.
The wolf uses tricks to try to eat the pigs.
The illustrations, plot, and use of language is seen through the pictures in the book.
Readers enjoy to know who the protagonist and antagonist is as the story goes in sequence.
It also teaches children that it is important to stick together.
1. Have children create their own house2.
Discuss with children the moral of this story after reading it
Kindergarten through second grade could read this book.The book is based on the tale of the Three Little Pigs. A big bad wolf blows their houses made of different materials down and ends up eating them.The book makes the original folktale light and uses amazing illustrations.I would use it to not only discuss the story but also ask kids to make their own version of it which makes students have to develop a plot and highlight major events.
What a fun book! I remember having my parents read this children's book to me several times for the nightly bedtime story. It is perfect for a beginning reader as well, because it has easy wording and bright colorful pictures that enhance the story as it plays along with each turn of the page. I still enjoy this book, even in my young adult life just because of the memories of my childhood it reminds me of. This book is a definite must-read.
After the wolf tricks each of the three little pigs in their individual houses he decides to eat each one. There was a pig who had a house made out of straw, sticks, and bricks. This would be great for all elementary students.
I remember this story as a child, I loved how it showed strength and power from the three pigs. Even though the first two houses blow down they didn't give up. This book is a classic and shows students to keep trying even when things look bad. My favorite part was when the teacher would blow just like how the book said to do. Very good interactive book!
I like this story. It is much different from the other little pigs I have read. The ending where the wolf falls down the chimney into a big hot pot of water and then was never seen again. That was not in the other stories I read.
This is one of my favorite traditional literature books. As a future teacher, there are lots of different activities you can do if you read this book with your class. This book is about 3 pigs who build different types of houses, and the wolf tries to blow them all down and eat them.
I decided to read this book after seeing the colorful and fun illustrations. I enjoyed the traditional story and think its one that any child should read. The illustrations are also very vibrant and appealing which makes the story even more engaging.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Our afternoon naptime story, the only way I could get him to agree to lay down. At 3 years old he reads along with the pictures all the while making himself laugh out loud with such delight.
Great to teach sequencing. I will have students practice retell using this book. They can draw pictures and write a sentence under the picture.
