https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41823.Robot_Visions
Robot Visions (Robot 0.5), Isaac Asimov Robot Visions (1990) is a collection of science fiction short stories and factual essays by Isaac Asimov.
Many of the stories are reprinted from other Asimov collections, particularly I, Robot and The Bicentennial Man and Other Stories.
It also includes the title story, "Robot Visions" (written specifically for this collection), which combines Asimov's motifs of robots and of time travel.
Actually the latter has only 5 entries not found in the former.Before Asimov practically every story related to an artificially created life (or its semblance) starting all the way from myth of Ancient Greece ended up with the creation turning against its creators – robots turning against humanity for our particular case.
To make a long story short these are included on the most fundamental level of an artificial brain and prevent a robot from doing a harm to a human in any form.
For this reason The Three Laws are not as relevant for modern life.What is interesting is that Asimov often uses robots and machines (meaning computers) interchangeably.
The robot short stories are always very fun to read.
Of the 18 stories in this collection, seven can also be found in I, Robot.
In fact, every story from I, Robot but one can also be found here, without the linking text starring Susan Calvin.
I, Robot was, to my memory, the first that I ever read of Asimov, so seeing those stories again was somewhat nostalgic.
I forget sometimes that a lot of his writing was nonfiction, and this was a good reminder.But this is probably only a book for real enthusiasts of Asimov's brand of robots.
After I, Robot, I was hungry for more robot stories, and Robot Visions was the only other robot collection I could find at my local library.
I personally enjoyed I, Robot more and thought the stories collected there were more solid, but this is by no means a weak collection at all.
More mysteries, more puzzles, more situations where your inner child delights at the faithful robot and cheers for the happy ending, and your more mature brain ponders the many questions that Asimov proposes in each story.
The collection of short essays at the end of the book was a pure pleasure to read.
The review by Arthur C. Clarke is what partially made me interested in this. That and also thinking Isaac Asimov is the allfather of Sci-fi.Also, ROBOTS.
Pre-reading research reveals that I, Robot, is the first collection of short stories.
Second is The Rest of the Robots.
Robot Dreams only has one new story in it.
Another selection of some of the musty favorites and dusty rarities, but nothing actually new?-------------Read.
I did read Complete a few months ago, and so nothing here was new (I don't think).
And I skimmed the stories that I remembered clearly enough.
Of course, if this is the only collection of Asimov's Robot shorts you have available, I recommend it as a five star must read.
The rest of us can stick with other collections.
Asimov includes in this volume both short works of fiction and essays that formulate a cohesive imagined universe, as well as a fully fleshed out vision of future technology.It is impossible to talk about anything in this collection without diving into Asimov's Three Laws of Robotics, as first formally presented in the short story "Runaround" - 1.
In many of the stories of Robot Visions, Asimov goes a step further to shed a light on and even poke fun of peoples' fears of being replaced by robots.
So Asimov's robots cannot harm people, though he does flirt with the idea of robots replacing humans as not the worst thing, given their built-in benevolence.
Though I have not read all 400 (jeez) of Asimov's books, I have read his entire Foundation and Robot series, so I think I have a feel for the master's work.
And like The Foundation series (Not so much his Robot series, which, like Asimov, I agree is pretty perfect), there are some great yarns, and some not so great yarns, and this book of short stories and essays is similar-Some great ones, and some not so great ones.
But there are some truly awful short stories in here, too, that probably only got published since they had Asimov's name attached to them.
Great collection of stories from an author whose name brings up visions of robots. This is a good way for readers to take a peek into an extraordinary mind and travel through science fiction stories.
I really enjoyed a majority of the short stories. But I found the esseys to be a little redundant.
Good short story collection, even better in small doses as all stories have essentially the same message over and over again. Did not finish.
Robots y literalmente como superan a la humanidad.
Good book.
I would likely not reread this book.
I would recommend this book to select people with an interest in this genre, the history of it, and everything robot.
Also, any hard core Asimov fans.This book, along with Robot Dreams, is a repackaging of Asimov's robot short stories.
There are no repeats between those two books.
(The Complete Robot)Segregationist (The Complete Robot)Mirror Image (The Complete Robot)Lenny (The Rest of the Robots)Galley Slave (The Rest of the Robots)Christmas Without RodneyAlso includes 16 short essays on everything robot that Isamov decided to ponder in print.
Asimov was expert at repackaging material, and all the Robot short stories in this volume have appeared in other Robot books before, but I picked it up for the introduction by the good doctor, as well as the science-fact and opinion essays included at the back.
The latter were considerably shorter than I expected, though not one interesting, so I ended up rereading most of the novella and short stories anyway.
The Bicentennial Man is always enjoyable, to see how close Asimov could come to repudiating his famous three laws of robotics without ever quite getting there.
This book of robot stories by Asimov was as good as any other.
I think among those four collections of robot stories ("I, Robot", "The Complete Robot", "Robot Dreams" and this one), this one and "Robot Dreams are my favorites.The quality of stories and the mixture of robot and non-robot tales in "Robot Dreams" made it one of my favorites.
This one has some of the best robot stories within (classics along with more modren ones) and a number of essays by Asimov about his robot stories.This book provides, I think, the best overview of all the robot stories and is very informative with the essays by Asimov himself...Very enjoyable...
It is a collection of some of Asimov's robot stories along with some essays at the end.
I'd seen most of these stories in some of my previous Asimov reads.
If you haven't read much Asimov, I'd highly recommend this.
One knock that I have on Asimov is his high level of optimism.
He seems to think that if we had robots that we'd be free to pursue higher things.
Personally, I'm not sure that the vast majority of people would pursue higher things as opposed to sitting around streaming TV on Netflix or playing games on smart phones.
I enjoyed the Asimov's essays about robots, computers, and cyborgs. They are well done.The short stories at the front of the book are the same stories published in other books. There are a few new ones. So, if you do not mind re-reading them or have not read other books, then you are good. Otherwise, you should just read the first and second short stories "Robot Visions" and "Too Bad!" then skip to the last one "Christmas Without Rodney" and continue through the essays. Essentially, 347 pages of this book are unnecessary.
As I read Asimov's Robot stories for the first time since I was a teenager, I've come to some unfortunate realisations. I still enjoy the stories, and I still respect Asimov, but so many of these stories seem to be clever just for the sake of being clever. Like they're thought-experiments. There's a minimum of charm.I guess we'll always have Solaria.
This is yet another in the vast sea of work by Isaac Asimov. What really made this a winner for me was the set of essays in the book about why robots will succeed and thrive. One particular essay regards the reason we will create human shaped robots. Short answer: Because they can interact with our world.
Always enjoy the robot stories, always hard to get through his descriptions of women (when there are any).
کتابی خوب با داستانهای کوتاه رباتیکی مهم، ولی همچنان با ترجمهای نهچندان خوب.
‫کتابی خوب با داستان‌های کوتاه رباتیکی مهم، ولی هم‌چنان با ترجمه‌ای نه‌چندان خوب.
Looking deeper than surface level at these 3 laws turns out to be the source of most of the plots in Asimov's robot stories.
Nearly every "unforeseen consequence" of the 3 laws is explored while basic questions about morality and the nature of being human are left for the reader to ponder, as is true of many great Sci-Fi works.
On every page Asimov proves his status as one of the all-time greats of forward thinking, realistic Sci-Fi and anyone with even a passing interest in the genre would do well to check out his work.
Esta recopilación de cuentos y ensayos cubre diversas situaciones donde la interacción humano-robot es evaluada a la luz de las Tres Leyes de la Robótica propuestas para Asimov.
A lo largo de los cuentos, principalmente, se pueden apreciar los clarososcuros que derivan de la aplicación de las leyes y la infinidad de situaciones que salen de estos, dejando un gran espacio para la reflexión en temas de identidad y derechos de los seres robóticos.
¿Cuánto falta para que estos reclamen sus derechos como seres pensantes?
¿Cuánto falta para que la humanidad por fin se desligue de la concepción TAN limitante del ciclo de vida (nacer-estudiar-trabajar-morir)?
This book is a collection of short stories that fill in a few of the blanks and backstories of various characters in Asimov's Robot series.
Naturally, they have me thinking about the increased use of robots in our society.
Ever the futurist, Asimov wonders what will become of our society as robots are employed to do the manual jobs normally reserved for people.
Unfortunately, our current economic models require a 40+ long work week for the rank-and-file humans to be worthy of food, clothing and shelter.
tension as robots fill more and more jobs leaving humans to fill in previously unnecessary gaps to prove their worthiness.
https://nwhyte.livejournal.com/3051481.htmlAs with the companion anthology, Robot Dreams, this included a lot of stories which I had fairly recently returned to in The Complete Robot and did not especially like; a smaller number of stories which were new to me and which I generally liked a bit more; and some lovely illustrations by Ralph McQuarry.
It also ends with a number of essays on robots by Asimov, most of which are about how clever he was to have invented the Three Laws.
These 36 landmark short stories and essays include three never before colleccted stories: " Too Bad," "Chritmas Without Rodney" and "Robot Visions," which was created specifically for this book.
Let the master himself be your gide as you explore the key moments in the financial history of robot--human relations--from the most primitive computers and mobile machines to the first robot to become a man.
And you will see these "robot visions" skillfully captured in illustrations by Academey Award--winner Ralp McQuarrie, production designer of "Star Wars."
Incluso tratándose de un maestro como Asimov, se me “enfría” un poco el ambiente cuando leo una historia de un robot experto en edición de manuscritos....
que corrije en papel.Hay algunas historias que se mantienen y se mantendrán vigentes como “Círculo Vicioso” y el famoso “Hombre del Bicentenario”.
Y es que ambas coinciden en que la historia da pocos detalles tecnológicos y no insiste en la ubicación temporal dando espacio al lector para imaginar que todo ocurre en un futuro aún lejano y permitiendo enfocarse en el conflicto que, como es habitual en Asimov, saca a la luz las características “humanas” de los personajes independientemente que se trate de un humano o un robot.
Highlights: "Reason," "Liar!," "Little Lost Robot," "The Evitable Conflict," "Bicentennial Man," "Galley Slave."No lowlights - every story in "Robot Visions" is excellent. Asimov explores every (maybe not every) nook and cranny of his Three Laws, anti-robot sentiment, anti-human sentiment, segregationist robots and humans alike (so very alike), consciousness. Sometimes subtle, sometimes overt, Asimov's robots are as much people as they are machines with dreams and dislikes, fears and wants.
I have been reading several of Asimov's short story anthologies lately, leading up to reading the robot, galactic empire, and foundation series. Robot Visions is a very worthy collection of Asimov's writings. I would suggest The Complete Robot or I, Robot instead depending on if you want a best-ofs or total depth. Robbie, Reason, Runaround, Evidence, The Evitable Conflict, and The Bicentennial Man are all exceptional stories. Most of these fit in the Susan Calvin, Powell, and Donovan story line. This is no mistake since they are in large part the best of his short stories.
