https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33841.Against_the_Fall_of_Night
Such a mind belongs to Alvin of Loronei, the last child to be born in the city of immortals, and a young man who thirsts for knowledge and adventure.Clarke crafts an exciting, and lyrically written, dying earth story in which young Alvin must overcome the obstacles of his own people and face even greater challenges in the wider world.
My impression was that he was a much more ‘hard sf’ kind of writer, more interested in true science and plausible extrapolations of it, but here we have a lyrically written fable of humanity’s far-future days of decline.
This hardcover edition is copy 40 of 250 produced and is signed by Bob Eggleton who did the artwork.
However, stories are told through characters, and the characters in this book could have been much more interesting and complex.
Happy to have immersed myself into such a classic science fiction story.
It's exactly the kind of story one might come up with, if one were looking at the picture above and trying to write something down.
I love that someone could write something that fits the picture I have of "classic" science fiction.
And that a book could create as images as strong and colorful as this one has done.
Read this one rather than his later rewrite "The City and the Stars." Deep-future always works better as poetry, and you can't clutter up poetry with too many details -- the bare prose and simple exposition which Clarke later abandoned make a clean frame for this lovely story.That spooky feeling you got when the time traveler in HG Wells disembarks into the silent garden of the Sphinx at twilight?
It's also an antiquarian mystery, an essay on the implications of deep time, a theological fantasia, and a muted, sublimated love story.Set aside a winter evening.
Actually if Sir Clarke had written it just a little differently I would classify it as a Young Adult dystopian novel, but as it stands it's basically a Golden Age science-fiction story.
Basically the tech functions like magic and with it our hero overcomes all obstacles.
Interestingly enough advanced tech that works like magic is the third of Sir Clarke's three laws, but that's really not the point - though it is fun isn't it.
So an interesting classic science fiction novella that will probably come across as being a bit simplistic to a reader in 2017.
One last thing for fans of Sir Clarke's fiction.
More like kindled a fire using fuel that I never new I possessed.A few notes are in order:1) This review does not factor in Clarke's re-write, The City and the Stars, at all.2) This book was written in 1948.
Given the massive leaps forward in science since then, this is a remarkable achievement.Now, onto the review.Against the Fall of Night centers on Alvin, the youngest member of the city of Diaspar.
Clarke leaves much to the imagination, but never too much.I have read in other reviews that a flaw of the book is the lack of character development.
The Prologue to Arthur C. Clarke's Against the Fall of Night is so mesmerizing I thought I might have another  Childhood's End  on my hands. The first page or two encapsulates all that is most poignant in the book: a child looks to the heavens and wonders if all that is best about his world has already past, lost forever in a desert of myth and apostasy. However thought-provoking this novel may be, as an early outing by Clarke it seems underdeveloped. The grand technology-driven themes, the oper
The first page or two encapsulates all that is most poignant in the book: a child looks to the heavens and wonders if all that is best about his world has already past, lost forever in a desert of myth and apostasy.
The grand technology-driven themes, the operatic flavor with which Clarke embues time and space, the profound puniness of humankind--all these are present and vibrant.
The protagonist becomes something of a chosen one--a John the Baptist type, driven by a considerable ego to search for lost knowledge and a scientifically plausible messiah.
The themes and notions which Clarke explores with such elegance in Childhood's End and 
I reread my copy until it physically fell apart.Recently, something reminded me of the prologue of the book, a classic Clarkian prose-poem that, in three pages, perfectly establishes both the setting and the mood for the entire book.
Alvin is the only person born for millions of years who has any curiosity about the world outside Diaspar, and it's that curiosity, combined with youthful brashness and risk-taking, that drives the plot.Since it was written around 1950, some of the technological extrapolation has not aged well.
I mentioned above that the prologue is almost a prose-poem; there are many such pieces of lyrical description scattered through the novel.
In this novel Clarke gave us Diaspar and Lys.He gave us Shalmirane.He gave us a masterpice of far future.He gave us a sense of wonder that inspired many writers who followed his footsteps.
Having read The City and the Stars during childhood and having forgotten most of it, I was interested in reading the 1948 original, Against the Fall of Night.
Written in 1948 and it reads pretty much undated in 2017. I think I liked his later rewrite of this novel "The City and the Stars" a little bit better. (especially his detailed description of daily life in Diaspar that we don't encounter in this novel) But still well worth a read like everything else by Arthur C. Clarke.
Arthur Clarke es una apuesta segura. Al empezar a leer esta novela me empecé a extrañar ya que me sonaban muchos detalles de lo que estaba leyendo, me recordaban enormemente a otra novela de Clarke llamada La ciudad y las estrellas. He descubierto ahora que Against the Fall of Night fue la Novella que luego Clarke revisó y reconvirtió en la novela La ciudad y las estrellas. Ambas son excepcionales y las recomiendo mucho. Al parecer luego otro autor, con el permiso de Arthur Clarke, escribió una secuela a esta novella llamada Beyond the fall of night. La leeré próximamente.
I hope the two people that read this blog don't mind.Against the Fall of Night is a quick read, and interesting throughout, and it is a good indication of the talent Clarke was beginning to realize.
The only glaring mistakes were misspellings of the City as ‘Daispar’ a number of times.In only 159 pages, Against the Fall of Night manages to convey both wonder and a message without coming across as too whimsical or heavy-handed.
I enjoyed delving into Clarke's humble beginnings and reading Against the Fall of Night made me appreciate how refined and talented of a writer he became.
I was especially excited to see it was a Clarke book I had discovered as I've previously read 2 of his books, Childhood's End and Rendezvous with Rama, and enjoyed both.A couple comments on these previous encounters: Rama was seriously lacking in characterization, being primarily occupied with the exploration and understanding of the encountered craft and, through it, with what would be necessitated by deep space travel - I found this fascinating and so enjoyed reading it, but it didn't exactly touch my sensibilities.
In one way it is similar to Childhood's End, and that is in placing its trust for the future of humanity in children, or at least in youth.
As such, the people of Diaspar have been content to remain within the confines not only of Earth, but of their city.Filled with an explorer's spirit, however, Alvin seeks a way out of Diaspar.
Hesitant at first to help Alvin in his quest to leave the city, Rorden nonetheless begins researching the inscription which then leads the pair on an expedition to discover secrets hidden below the surface of Diaspar, including an ancient transportation system and map showing all of the cities of Earth, long ago claimed by the desert.
It's a beautiful, poignant, almost desperately sad story of the human race, billions of years in the future, set against a fading galaxy in the last human city of Diaspar.
One of the things about Clarke's stories, or at least this one in particular, is the elegance of their future technology.
Clarke is famous for the saying "any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic," but there is a certain realistic grace in the "magic" behind the city of Diaspar in the book that exceeds most other fantasy or science-fiction worlds I've read.
My dad handed this to me and told me it was one of his favorite books from his youth, that it was the book that opened his eyes to the thoughts of exploring the world outside earth.
That said, it was written in 1948, long before traditional sci-fi and long before ACTUAL space exploration.
The kind of predictions, the kind of speculation, the kind of social commentary is absolutely outstanding for the time period.
This book seems bland now, but at the time must have been mindblowing.
Clarke, originally appeared as a novella in 1948, in Startling Stories.
Clarke expanded the story and published it as a novel with Gnome Press in 1953.
Still later he wrote The City and the Stars which expands some of the themes posited in Against the Fall of Night.Against the Fall of Night would be considered a novella by today’s standards; it’s probably about 40,000 words in length.
Other aspects of the work contribute to a “novella” feel; the story is not fleshed out and large sections are told to us via indirect narrative.
The things that are shown, though, are imaginative and gorgeous.Alvin lives in the city of ...
I really can't tell you what makes this book work so well.
There are so many avenues Mr. Clarke could have traveled down in this story, but he chose not to.
This book easily could have been three or four times the length and been an epic novel, but Mr. Clarke preferred to rein in the possibilities and leave the what-ifs to the readers' imagination.
Within the story I noticed elements that I've seen in many different books.
The fact that Mr. Clarke's story predates them all shows that this story truly is a great read.
This is a sentimental favorite of mine—the first real science fiction book I read as a child. It was the perfect mix of adventure and discovery to introduce a young reader to the world of Sci-fi. I can still remember Alvin exploring parts of the city that no one else had seemingly visited in ages. I'm almost afraid to go back and re-read it as an adult, though, because it's achieved this sort of mythical status in my memory, and so often things from childhood fail to live up to their billing when revisited.
This is another great book by the late, great Clarke. I really enjoyed following along with Alvin on his incredible journey. I really identified with the character and felt the suspense of the story. I will say that the ending was not quite what I was expecting and a bit vague but still makes for a great book.
ایده کتاب مثل بقیه کتابهای آرتور سی کلارک نابه و مبهم. من همیشه این ابهام دنیاهای آرتورسی کلارک را خیلی دوست دارم فقط این کتاب اولین کتاب سی کلارکه کمی از لحاظ نگارش و بعضی جاها پخته نیست. اما خوندنش خالی از لطف نیست. سی کلارک بعدا این کتاب را با نام شهر و ستارگان بازنویسی کرد.
ایده کتاب مثل بقیه کتاب‌های آرتور سی کلارک نابه و مبهم. من همیشه این ابهام دنیاهای آرتورسی کلارک را خیلی دوست دارم فقط این کتاب اولین کتاب سی کلارکه کمی از لحاظ نگارش و بعضی جاها پخته نیست. اما خوندنش خالی از لطف نیست. سی کلارک بعدا این کتاب را با نام شهر و ستارگان بازنویسی کرد.
I've read both this and City and the Stars. I preferred this one, but enjoyed getting a picture for how an author could rewrite a book. (when I got married, we discovered that I had one and my husband had the other book!)
I first read this book as a teenager and it became one of my favorites. I don't know why but have never read it again until now when I am close to 71. It still holds up and is still a favorite. A classic.
This book is one of my early reads. It's panoramic view of history appeals to me, and I do so love a struggle against seemingly insurmountable odds.
Yet another fabulous Arthur C Clarke book. Absolutely loved it!
Fabulous story, not too long, engaging.
This old favorite from the pen of Saint Arthur stretched a vista of breathtaking chronology and distance before me. It impressed me with the vastness of time and the linkedness of past with future.
Great story very compelling from the start to the end. Nice quick 150 page sci fi story
Read it. You won't be disappointed.
