https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35876524-white-houses
Fifty-five years after her death, and more than 70 years after she left the White House following her husband's death, Eleanor Roosevelt remains one of the most intriguing women in history.
And while it is clear both women love each other, Eleanor is conflicted about her feelings for Hick, her role as First Lady, and whether she should continue to enjoy her relationship, or whether she isn't a suitable match, and if she should set Hick free.Amy Bloom's 
Her words conveyed the emotional conflict, the longing, and the protectiveness both women felt, and brought so much depth to this story.NetGalley and Random House provided me an advance copy of the book in exchange for an unbiased review.
The writing by Amy Bloom in “White Houses” is beautiful.....soooo lovely!!!We learn a lot about Lorena Hickok, American journalist: her troubled childhood in South Dakota of sexual abuse - abandonment- poverty - and starting out on her own from an early age.
Amy Bloom eloquently constructed a meditation on the power of love!
This is a gorgeous love story — as much as any I’ve ever read!!!This is a magnificent excerpt:  “Every women’s body is an intimate landscape.
Eleanor‘s body is the landscape of my true home” Thank You Random House, Netgalley, and Amy Bloom
Amy Bloom in this wonderfully written book, imagines the relationship between Eleanor Roosevelt and Lenora Hickok, an AP reporter who becomes Eleanor's "first friend" and actually for a time moves into the White House.
While I did wonder here what actually happened and what was imagined, what their relationship was really like, the story definitely has a real feel to it and almost reads like Lorena's memoir as it is told from her point of view.
I couldn't help but be thankful that Eleanor had Lenora as her solace, while FDR carried on his extramarital affairs in the White House and their children always seeming to favor their father.
Erase, erase, erase that reading experience!You see, when I finish reading a fictional book about a famous person, my head insists on thinking that I’ve just read the whole truth and nothing but the truth.
The fact that Hick and Eleanor came from such opposite backgrounds makes their love story even richer.
Even in the first half of the book, where Hick is describing her tough past, the story never veers into high-drama land.
As is true of the whole book, her life story is handled without over-the-top drama, which is impressive.
5 starting-my-new-year-in-reading-with-an-absolute-BANG 🎉 💥 🎇 stars to White Houses  🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟My grandmother had a saying that what you were doing when the clock strikes midnight on New Year’s Eve is what you will be doing all year long.
😂 I shared that with some of my book friends, and they were told a similar saying, but instead it’s what you do on New Year’s Day. I’ll take that and run with it because I was reading this book on that day, and you know what that means?!
Roosevelt and his harem, as Hick calls them, the way his polio was hidden, and the relationship he and Eleanor had with their children.The book opens a short time after Roosevelt's death, and circles back to this period often.
Difficult to read, and is easily skimmed over, but an important part of Hicks story, letting the reader understand what a determined individual she was, willing to fight for those she loved.
I do think readers who love history, or the lives of Eleanor and Franklin, will like this book best.
This book is a work of fiction based on the relationship of Eleanor Roosevelt and her long time friend and companion, Lorena Hickock. Lorena’s voice narrates this story. They both seemed to be lost souls that found together, what they both never had in life, and it was written in a beautiful and intimate way. Thank you to NetGalley and Random House for the advanced copy!
!! NOW AVAILABLE !!  “In many dreams I've held you near,Now, at last, you're really here.“Where have you been?I've looked for you forever and a dayWhere have you been?I'm just not myself when you're away”  -- Where Have You Been lyrics by Kathy MatteaWhen Franklin D. Roosevelt was campaigning to become the 32nd President, Lorena Hickok was one of many reporters covering his campaign. Through this, she meets, and is befriended by Eleanor Roosevelt, despite their vast differences, economically an
Through this, she meets, and is befriended by Eleanor Roosevelt, despite their vast differences, economically and scholastically.
Where Lorena Hickok, or “Hick” as she was called, was raised in an impoverished part of South Dakota, among the poorest of the poor, sexually abused, physically abused, and always, always hungry.
Eleanor was raised without need.
Amy Bloom gives us a glimpse into the private lives of these two public women, and the love they shared behind closed doors.
What Bloom does bring to this is a wonderful insight into the times, and how these two women met and were irresistibly drawn to the other, seeing in each other the pieces that were missing in their lives.
This is a fictionalized account of the friendship, and probable lesbian relationship, between Lenora Hickok (“Hick”), a journalist, and Eleanor Roosevelt.
The author tells the story through Lenora’s eyes and what I enjoyed the most are the historical details: the Lindburgh kidnapping, the camp the Roosevelts founded for victims of polio, the marriage between Franklin and Eleanor, FDR’s affairs, the Roosevelt children…and more.
Readers who aren't bothered by the same questions will find much to enjoy in this slim book.The author had access to many of the letters the two exchanged, but I had a hard time reconciling the historical Eleanor with the one depicted in these pages.
White Houses is a fictionalized account of Eleanor Roosevelt's relationship with Lorena Hickok.
What made this worth reading to me were the writing and the sharply drawn personalities of these characters.
White Houses is a beautifully written impressionistic depiction of two women caught in a particular time in history.
I knew nothing about this relationship and very little about Eleanor Roosevelt.
It's always hard to know how true a work of historical fiction is to the characters or events it depicts.
In this case, it's hard to tell but Bloom's depiction of these women has a convincing air of reality.
This book details the relationship between Eleanor Roosevelt and “first friend” Lenora Hickok.
The book is written from Hick’s point of view.
Bloom does a good job of distinguishing between the acceptance of FDR’s affairs and the lack of the same for Eleanor and Hick.
It definitely wasn’t an attitude of what’s good for the goose…This is a good book for showing the difference between the public and private personas of the first couple.
It’s a beautifully written book.
In fact, Bloom has done such a great job that never once did I think it was anything but Hick’s voice I was hearing.
White Houses is a timely read which I don’t think Amy Bloom could have predicted.
Secondly, June is Pride month and I can’t help but think how Lorena would relish that with Eleanor and her linking arms.The narration of White Houses is Lorena Hickok’s point of view.
Lorena meets Eleanor when she was on assignment writing about Franklin D.
Franklin has his mistresses and Lorena has her own room in the White House.
It feels like an unstated acceptance of their relationship.At its very core, this is a love story about the deep, intimate feelings that First Lady, Eleanor Roosevelt and Lorena Hickok “Hick” had for each other.
I said that the Potsdam diner was a delight. She said that after the funeral there was corned beef and cabbage and homemade beer. She said the service was Irish Catholic and heartfelt. I hung up my coat and made a show of taking out my notebook and doing my job, and asking about her husband's ambitions. Lordy lord, if you can manage to read such flat, 'told', random prose then you're more tolerant than I am. I'm really intrigued by this relationship between Eleanor Roosevelt and 'Hick', a lesbi
She said the service was Irish Catholic and heartfelt.
Lordy lord, if you can manage to read such flat, 'told', random prose then you're more tolerant than I am.
I'm really intrigued by this relationship between Eleanor Roosevelt and 'Hick', a lesbian journalist who moved into the White House during FDR's presidency - but this book didn't work for me at all.
On top of this, the whole story feels shallow and superficial: there's no sense of history, the White House could be any suburban home, and there's little attention to the politics and causes which consumed Eleanor Roosevelt in real life.
Imagine the scandal to be had if the press found about about this relationship!Lorena knows Eleanor, she knows that no matter what how many affairs, how many slights, how many indiscretions Franklin Roosevelt had, she will never leave him.
Lorena had much respect for Franklin, she also had much jealousy of the hold he had over Eleanor.This novel's words are tragically beautiful.
Ms Blooms's ability to show us the beauty of a relationship that so few would know of until well after the death of Eleanor, is amazing.
White Houses has been sitting on my shelf for some time and finally, I grabbed it off my shelf and found a grassy, shady spot to hide in a coulee till I finished reading this storyAmy Bloom beautifully captures the hidden love between Eleanor Roosevelt and journalist Lorena “Hick” Hickok.
Though Hick’s perspective she brings to life their relationship while giving us Hicks’ take on Franklin Roosevelt and life in the White House.
White Houses was a very interesting read for me as it pulled into the story yet at times I found myself uninterested in parts but still completely drawn into the emotional depth of this brilliantly written story.
This is a work of historical fiction about first lady Eleanor Roosevelt and her romantic relationship with American journalist Lorena Hickok (nicknamed "Hick").
Born in Wisconsin, Hickok triumphed over a disastrous childhood to eventually become a reporter for the Associated Press (AP).
She was assigned to cover Franklin D.
Roosevelt's first presidential campaign when she established a close friendship with the future First Lady.
This occurred while reading about Hick's horrible childhood.
Ironically enough, once I transitioned to the next two thirds of the book covering Hick's existence while living amidst the Franklins, I found it much less interesting.
This fictional portrayal of the love relationship between Eleanor Roosevelt and a journalist who joined the White House staff as her PR writer, Lorena Hickok, was fun to read.
Even recently, a respected biographer of Eleanor Roosevelt, Blanche Wiesen Cooke, is quoted as saying she had no doubts of a mutual ardent loving relationship, but as for its sexual nature she can only say “Well, the fact is, we can never know what people do in the privacy of their own home.
A touching fictionalized story about the love affair between First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt and writer Lorena Hickok.
Amy Bloom tells the story of the two women through Lorena's eyes as she recounts their past and present romantic relationship.
Not just the person who loves you.
As much as Lorena and Eleanor loved, their relationship was behind closed doors and stolen moments.
There are so many beautiful lines in this story and Amy Bloom crafts with care and respect the relationship between the two women.
I would hope to see this book discussed for many months to come.
Just started listening to the audio; the narrator is perfect!!!This has to be Amy Bloom's best and most beautiful book yet.
Eleanor was a tireless giver, to her family, her husband, her children, the people of this country, and even the world.
She hardly accepted or even received affection from her family, husband or children.
If any part of this beautiful historical novel is true, and I'm sure the relationship is, I'm so pleased that Eleanor had such happiness in her life.
Whatever is imagined here let Eleanor have received its bounty.Thank you Netgalley, Amy Bloom, and Random House.
"No love like old love." -'White Houses' by Amy BloomMuch has been written about the Roosevelt family over the years; in particular, President Franklin D.
an Eleanor Roosevelt who had a 'secret' love of her own with former Associated Press reporter, Lorena Hickok.
This certainly could not happen in 2018.)I loved the way Amy Bloom wrote the story of the love affair between Eleanor Roosevelt and Lorena Hickok.
And Lorena Hickok's memories of her relationship with Eleanor Roosevelt are written with a sensuality that I found breathtakingly beautiful...
For me, the best part of "White Houses" is the depiction of the relationship between Eleanor Roosevelt and Lorena Hickock, especially as they age. Bloom artfully contrasts the two women's backgrounds - poverty vs. privilege. On the surface they are an odd couple, but they make sense on these pages. Oh, yes - and FDR in the background - so well done! Bloom is a master at condensing a long complicated story and she did it beautifully here.
3.5 stars.This is a love story, one not like any romance I have ever read where my eyes roll at the sugary sweet dialog.
Amy Bloom writes of love as if it's a part of the most beautiful birds, flowers, and sunsets found in nature.
To read the author's take on their relationship, their intimate moments, you understand it fully even though Bloom took their intimacy just to the brink, allowing the readers their imaginings.Being a fan of Eleanor and Franklin, the book held many points of historical interest to me and the writing is superb; but something in the presentation failed to engage me 100%.
A story of soulmates – two, independent, bright and powerful women in a lesbian relationship – a hidden secret to the world yet happening right in front of everyone’s eyes and seemingly accepted, by Eleanor’s known to be philandering husband, Franklin Delano Roosevelt and their close social circle.Lorena Hickok grew up in poverty in South Dakota and became a well known reporter.
FDR and Hickok had a friendship and an understanding, and Eleanor had loyalties to them both.The complexities of this enduring love between this unlikely twosome is intriguing and author Amy Bloom has created a compelling story with a strong voice and beautiful writing.
But I think the author's lack of experience in writing historical fiction does not serve her well here.
At times I felt like I lacked some crucial details about the historical context that I wasn't getting from the book itself, things that would have helped me better understand the story.
At times it felt exaggerated and difficult to read as historical fiction.
I'm not sure if it's because of the actual facts of the story being that extreme or if it's the writing, but I feel as if I'd have to read some biography of both Lorena and Eleanor to truly understand it all.
How can a love story have no emotion? None, zero, zip. The characters were flat and devoid of any humanization. Wow...can't believe this one actually made it from manuscript to published work.
And my mouth waters as I read as if I’ve been served my fantasy feast and it’s just for me and I can eat it as slowly or as quickly as I please and make all the private pleasure sounds you don’t make in public because this experience is mine, mine, mine—intimate and private.Her new book, like her previous novels Away and Lucky Us, is the story of a woman who has been spat out into the world as a child and, through moxie and amazing resilience, manages to live—in this case, an extraordinary life, despite the "inner hired girl" persona that clings to her psyche.
This book is a fictional take on Eleanor's relationship with Lorena Hickok.
I miss some parts from Loving Eleanor, like for instance how their relationship was put an end by FDR because they were a risk to the presidency.
But, that's perhaps the point, although it did feel like Lorena jumped from thought to thought in her recollection of her relationship with Eleanor.If you want a tragic love story is this book great.
There are several wonderful memorable scenes that I loved like Lorena last meeting with Franklin.
As a fictional biography of Lorena Hickok, it was superb, capturing her early life, her appearance, raspy voice, prickly personality; bringing to life a woman I had heard of because of her relationship with Eleanor Roosevelt, but never knew much about.
It also brought to life what it must have been like to be in that White House inner circle during the Roosevelt administration, showing both Franklin and Eleanor as real people, warts and all.
The behind the scenes depiction of daily life, FDR's mistresses, and the cruelty of his attention and charm, was fascinating.At its heart, it is the love story between "Hick" and Eleanor, and this is where I experienced a disconnect.

While there WAS some of this in the second half of the story, I felt that most of Hick’s personal story was overshadowed by that of the Roosevelts – the second half read more like a run-of-the-mill biography of Eleanor Roosevelt rather than an impassioned recounting of a love affair from Hick’s perspective.This book didn’t quite work out for me but I think it was more of an issue with me not connecting to the story rather than problems with the book itself.
