https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14265.Under_the_Glacier
(And btw, I'm glad I was never invited to comedy night at the Sontags).Written by Icelandic Nobel Prize winner Halldor Laxness, "Under the Glacier" is the story (using the term loosely) of a bishop's emissary who hunts for the truth (using the term loosely) about what has gone on with the parish pastor (ditto on the loosely) of a remote district next to a glacier.
The entire mercifully short novel is written in a style I would call Scandinavian magic surrealism, where hardly any character is what he or she seems, no one is "normal," and where a mysterious woman may be dead, or alive, or a bit of both.
The blending of reality with fantasy is in the perfect dose for me - at the end I was left in a state of reverie, wondering how much of what had happened was real.
Some facts are confirmed, others are left unexplained, but this doesn't diminish the magic atmosphere of this forgotten place at the end of the world, governed by the glacier and the sea birds and populated by a bunch of more or less bizarre people.Iceland through the lens of photographer Ragnar AxelssonThe old man may well be the priest from the parish near the glacier (photographer: Ragnar Axelsson)
I couldn't find Independent People in my library (which I had only read half of and really wanted to finish) so I picked of this book of Laxness's instead and I am glad I did.
You ALMOST believe that you're supposed to believe in these things, you're not sure, but by the last quarter of the book it doesn't matter.As the book winds down and the plot starts turning faster you can finally see the deep and beautiful love and humanity that supports all of these previously viewed craziness and silliness.
A very strange book.
I felt that for the first half of the book Laxness was just having a bit of fun and then needed to find some sort of ending that made a bit of sense.
There is the magnificent Pastor who with his "parishioners" have decided living is about doing your own thing, helping others and minding your business.
There are strange characters, a resurrection of a salmon and the return of a woman who may or may not have ever existed.Not sure what the whole thing was about (maybe Laxness wanted to enter a creative writing competition).
My experience with this book: This is supposed to be funny? What's going on here? Am I getting it? This is supposed to be funny. What's going on here?Am I getting it? This is sort of funny. What's understanding? On some level, I am getting it.This book is funny, absurd funny. What's up with the effing fish and the yogis from Los Angeles?Ok. My reaction upon finishing the book: It was amazing. I think I got it. It was hilarious. It's unlike anything I've ever read. Check back with me in 5 years when I read it again.
it involves a young emissary from the bishop of iceland who is sent from reykjavik to investigate odd rumors about the pastor - and town - of snaefells glacier.
Your Grace's loving and obedient servant ..."for me the high point of the book comes about halfway through, in a long discussion between old friends pastor jon primus and dr.
i'll leave the final words to pastor jon:"It's a pity we don't whistle at one another, like birds.
If one looks at the glacier for long enough, words cease to have any meaning on God's earth."
Sent as the representative of a faith-based organisation, yet records his conversations with witnesses on a tape-recorder - much of the dialogue is presented as a transcription of these tapes - so something not faith-based, but precise, technical and mechanical.
The local priest who is under investigation is much respected for his technical and mechanical skills - he's the best man to go to if you want your primus stove repaired - however the church is boarded up.Here we have something of late twentieth century life.
Organised, technical and mechanical.
There are primus stoves, tape recorders and buses that arrive and depart according to time-table.
That is what the lilies of the field do.” Instead, Pastor Jon spends most of his time travelling around the village, shoeing horses and repairing old electric stoves.During his face-finding mission, Embi happens across the truck-driving poet Jodinus Alfberg and his boss, the New Agey and oddly con man-like Godman Syngmann (note his name).
Or maybe my problem is that I’m looking for something it should be “about.” I ought to give “Against Interpretation” another look, since I seem to be retrogressing in regards to the advice it gives.
A rollicking rambling mess of a book. A complete shambles, but somehow it works.A bishops emissary is sent to a remote part of Iceland to investigate rumours of unorthodox religious practices. What he finds is bewildering and profound, absurd yet eminently sensible, earthy and obscure.I enjoyed the book but felt that it was always just out of my grasp, that things were going over my head - just like the young emissary.
Covert Returns to ChristianityThis novel comes with impeccable credentials: Laxness, a Nobel laureate, is one of Iceland's major twentieth-century novelists; the translator is Magnus Magnusson, "Mastermind" television presenter, and authority on the Icelandic sagas; and the book has a late introduction by Susan Sontag (2004).
It's not necessary to wish this were either religious or anti-religious to be disappointed by its blurred sense of what is, actually, possible.The book may very well be unlike any other Laxness wrote (Sontag says that twice in her introduction, making me wonder how sure she was).
I enjoyed this but it was incoherent. It reminded me a bit of The Sellout: dreamlike in parts, poking at convention, full of references. But I liked The Sellout much more because it held together and came together and this didn't for me.
A novel ostensibly about an emissary of the Bishop of Iceland, who is sent to the remote town of 'Glacier' to investigate the rumour that Pastor Jon is not burying the dead, that the church is boarded up, and that in general Christianity is being 'tampered with'.
Under the Glacier is a minor classic and deserves a lot more attention than, sadly, it will ever get; even less than the glorious  Independent People.Sidenote: Bringing a knowledge of the sagas and of Icelandic folklore will enable a reader to get a bit more out of this particular Laxness experience.
In both books, Icelanders are lured away from their beliefs by, in one case Mormon missionaries from Utah, and in the other, a group of New Agers and quasi-Buddhists from California and other points of the compass.Under the Glacier was originally called Christianity at Glacier.
Now even in the 1960s, Snaefellsness with its glaciated mountain was considered a center of New Age beliefs.
Even in Jules Verne's Journey to the Center of the Earth, which begins there, it was considered to be a magical place.The unnamed emissary of the bishop, who simply refers to himself as EmBi and then Embi, is treated to a bewildering array of characters who pretend to be poets, sages, and even, in one case, the Buddha himself.
Maybe it was Susan Sontag's wild and appreciative review (the last she wrote), maybe the sense of lightness and weight yoked to a clear plot, maybe the relative brevity, who knows.
Given what seems a simple task, namely to investigate Pastor Jón and see if a body was left on the glacier, the protagonist winds up in a muddle of metaphysics and regional politics where international businessmen, local corruption, and pragmatic men of god whirl his head and leave the report a beautiful, glorious mess.
Or here, the bishop's advice before the "Undersigned" sets out: Never speak ill of anyone in a report.
ყველაზე მნიშვნელოვანი რამ, წიგნში ხორცშესხმული პერსონაჟი ქალი უაა. თითქოს, სხვა მიზნები და საკითხებია პირველ პლანზე წამოწეული, მაგრამ სინამდვილეში ყველაფერი ამ ქალთან მიდის. ეს ის ქალია, რომელიც ბორდელს ფლობდა, მერე მონაზვნად აღიკვეცა, ერთდროულად ოთხ ქვეყანაში ცხოვრობდა, რამდენი ქმარი ყავდა, თვითონაც არ უწყოდა და თან, შესანიშნავი ქსოვა იცოდა.უას გამოისობით, დეტერმინანტების კანონი მოქმედებაში იყო შესული: კოსმობიოლოგიამ და ეპაგოგიკამ წარმოაჩინეს საკუთარი თავი, ხოლო წიგნის პერსონაჟებს მუდმივად ახასიათებდათ მათ თვალებში გამოხატული, ჩვეულებრივი ასტროტელეკინეზი, კოსმობიოლოგია და ბიორადიოთერაპია, რომლებიც ახსნას არ საჭიროებდნენ.ვრცლად მიმოხილვა პოსტში: http://popularpopcorn.blogspot.com/20...
It's not fair for me to give this book a low score. It's the kind of book that you would like, if you liked this kind of book. It's deconstructed and strange and has lots of digressions. There's religion and Icelandic myth and lots of descriptions of the glacier. Mysterious people come and go, and are not as they seem. My linear and lumpen brain struggles to be patient with creative structures so after 90 pages i had to put it down. But give it a whirl if you enjoy being confused!
Unlike anything else I've read. Quick, witty, and very strange. The story is ostensibly a face-value report of a clergy investigation in a rural Icelandic town...where the slow approach of the Glacier seems to have replaced religion. There, life has become more practical but truth less important, and, ultimately, life more mysterious.
In un periodo cruciale tanto per l’immaginario quanto per il progresso scientifico, Laxness gioca a smontare il genere fantascientifico riportandolo alle sue origini di conte philosophique, per poi divertirsi a smentirlo e a sovvertire le aspettative.“Il Cristianesimo sotto il Ghiacciaio”, come recita il titolo originale, versa in condizioni disperate, stando alle voci che circolano: il parroco non adempie ai suoi doveri ecclesiastici, non fa manutenzione della chiesa che al contrario è stata sprangata; pare abbia perfino consentito il seppellimento di un cadavere nel ghiacciaio, in terra non consacrata.
His mission is to uncover controversies, but what he finds is a quirky collection of characters, all of whom resolutely refuse to answer his questions directly and seem to delight in making him uncomfortable.What I liked most about this book was the author's excellent way of describing the landscape and people his narrator encountered.
He gave the young narrator a strong sense of purpose and determination, which stood in stark contrast to almost everyone he met.All the other characters in the story were just about as inscrutable as possible.
Found it hard to condense my still tangled senses of this book to a staff pick card, since I only truly enjoyed the last part, when Ua returned.
Written by Iceland's premier author, Under the Glacier is a novel both comic and metaphysical, mythic and odd."Then I read Adam W's card and must shake my fist at his powers of elegant condensation:"In a village beyond the edge of the civilized world, a minister is challenged on grounds of heresy even while bona fide miracles lurk around every corner of his parish.
The first time I read this it left me cold, but coming back to it a few years later I can't say why -- this time it was hilarious, with a terrific deadpan absurdity and brisk pace.
I especially liked the way the narrator, charged by his Bishop to write a report on the strange goings-on at the glacier, struggles to leave out his own opinions and judgements while recording such ridiculous events and characters.
It creates so many layers of distortion and doubt that it calls into question religion, literature, history, and everything else but without offering any concrete, rational answers of its own.
Under the Glacier is the second book by Laxness I have read. It is a different style from Independent People, but I loved it just as much. The story hooked me from the first page, and the characters were memorable and delightful. Laxness creates a perfect balance between humour and philosophy that kept me turning the pages, eager to see what strange events would take place next under the watchful gaze of the poor emissary. As a short read, this would be an excellent introductory piece for those new to Laxness' writing.
I'm not sure what to think on this book, about a young lay assistant to the Bishop who has to travel to a remote parish in Iceland and report on a pastor who's appeared to have gone off the rails. The quirkiness and 1960s prose and ideas really didn't connect with me very well. I'm not sure if it's me, if it's dated or if it's something lost in translation. I might revisit this book sometime in the future and see it it works better.
This one stands out as the most quirky, macap, utterly brilliant novels that I have ever read. I searched all over trying to find another copy since I thought the one I had was missing the last 20 pages. But no, that was all part of the the way this book undoes all of those formulaic conventions that novels are usually known for. Fun.
A beautiful kafkaesque novel, that asks some important questions about life, but is at the same time a parody. It's not like anything I've read before; a unique satyric novel, beautifully written. He deserved the Nobel-prize in literature like few of the laureates did. It left me speechless, and it's a shame that so few people have read it.
Abstract and philosophical, but just not enough story. The premise is intriguing, but under-executed. And what should have been the climax - a long-anticipated resurrection - is so understated that it barely seemed to happen.
This book received glowing reviews in the NYT. The glow must have emanated from the reviewer's crack-pipe because the book completely sucked (I swear that I will never pick up another "modern Candide" as long as I live). I am contemplating filing suit to get my $16.95 back.
If you read one book on Icelandic Mormons this year, make sure it's Under the Glacier. Laxness writes with such beauty and grace.
Too bad I have to give it any star. As my friend Sharon said "friends don't let friends read 'Under the Glacier'". It was bad & didn't make any sense to me. Blah
What a wackily delightful book - how come I've never heard about it, and the movie that's based on it (can't wait to find that one). It's not like anything else you've read - trust me on that.
