https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25373.Nick_Norah_s_Infinite_Playlist
And this part is just so painful for me to read because my very own diary journal has a long section about how I was feeling confused and conflicted about this girl so I just went out at night and went rollerblading in the rain and it was just so quiet and true and man do I want to punch 14-year-old me in the face (though it did subsequently spark the creation of my own bad emo song parody, Rollerblading in the Rain, which goes like this: "Needing you/ wishing you/ hoping you/ wanting you/ is like rollerblading in the rain/ you might slip and fall but you'll/ pick yourself up again").So what exactly does it mean that N&NIP is written so accurately in the voices of its characters that it is regularly frustratingly twee and trite, because hey, what are the musings of teenagers if not twee and trite?
This is supposed to be a young adult book, yet I can't tell you how many times the authors [over]used the word "fuck." Why?
A sad fact and a sad message to be sending young girls who read this book.Also, I did not like the fact that the girls called each other "bitch." Again, this is blatant overuse of a swear word for the purpose of creating shock value.
I use it when I need to but not every other word out of my mouth is "fuck this" and "bitch that." It's not cool and it saddens me that this book is sending the message that it is.
I thought the movie was cute---a better than average teen romance set in my old stomping grounds of New York City's Greenwich Village and Soho.
On leaving the theater, I soon heard from my wife how much better the book was, and how disappointing the movie was.
Over the course of an all-night adventure in New York, they get to know each other better while each wrestles with their own doubts and insecurities and tries to figure out what to think of the other.I loved it!
The fact that the story is set in a realistic New York City was a bonus.
I ADORE his writing style.
I also ADORE his mind.
The faking-you-have-a-girlfriend thing is so overdone I would have cried of exasperation if it had been what this book was all about.Luckily it’s not.
Nick and Norah meet because of ex-girlfriend Tris, but they connect because of who they are as a person and who they are together.This is a one-day-one-night type of book.
Everything that occurs in this book starts the moment the two main characters meet and ends when the night ends.
Nick has to finally get over Tris and Norah has someone to get out of her mind too.
7/13Nick sees his old girlfriend coming towards him with a new guy and he can't let her see him like this, so he asks the girl next to him to be his girlfriend for just five minutes.This book was trash - complete and total trash, with the F-word making an appearance at least every other page and other profanities littered across the story I found it highly offensive and vulgar.
I find it really annoying how the people in the book can take one look at someone else and know their character and personality traits, all with just one discerning glance, you expect me to believe that the girl can look at the boy and know exactly what he is like and what he needs?
Reviewed by Me for TeensReadToo.comBefore I start the story that is Nick and Norah, I decided we needed to get some misconceptions out of the way first.
I don't live in Manhattan--actually, I've never been farther East than Ohio, but I still got the gist of the story quite easily.
There's a love story, and a song about a girl on a street in the middle of the night, and a band that just might make it big, and a car that won't start, and a subway ride that requires jumping the turnstyle.
This book is FUCKING EPIC.
I bet you anything the next YA book I read, I'll be griping about it being 'too unrealistic.' What's the difference then?
Writing.
Levithan and Cohn's writing is sooo gorgeous in that 'witty but not so witty you're annoying and pretentious' kind of way.
And even if Nick and Norah's circumstances were 'extraordinary' the emotions and doubt and pain and redemption of being young were real and relatable.
And I loved Tris.
Young people, and some old people, talk like this.I'm a sap, I love 'soulmate' stories, and this one's funny and touching and adorable.
Fucking adorable!
There’s absolutely no character development here, none.
Author intrusion by Cohn is also stark, evidenced by an unrealistic playlist, constant political and religious jabs (not teenager-like), and this pre-occupation with sexual diversity.
I’m all for multiculturalism and diversity, but it should play out naturally, not be rammed down our literary throats.
I only finished this book for two reasons; it was short at less than 200 pages, and it was part of a book club, so I saw it as my literary duty.
I like his character, Nick, and his chapters, but half a book does not a whole book make.
La única excusa que creo que es valida para justificar mi ausencia es el hecho de que "The Vampire Diaries" terminó; y aunque no era la mejor serie del mundo, fue una gran e importante parte de mi vida desde que la empecé por allá del 2010.
Sin embargo, creo que ambos —tanto la película como el libro—, son buenos, los dos ligeramente distintos pero con toques sutiles de exorbitante hermosura...
En mi muy personal opinión creo que tienen razón, pero ese motivo no es suficiente para "otorgar una estrella", pues, creo que hay muchas más cosas buenas que eclipsan los errores en la novela; además, se trata de adolescentes que están por entrar a la universidad, personas normales y no pretenciosas.
Finally done. Just over a week to get through a slim 183 pages. Blech. 17-year-old Suzanne would have loved this book. 30-year-old Suzanne hated it. I feel like it tried too hard. And the f-bomb is used way too gratuitously. It's not even used for emphasis's sake.Example:Normal Human: I am going to take out the trash right now.Nick and/or Norah: I am going to f*@%ing take out the f*@%ing trash right f*@%ing now.Is this how the teens are talking these days?
From that point on, Nick and Norah recognize the chemistry between them, but their feelings are compromised by their previous relationships.The book is okay.
My main complaint: Nick and Norah are cool.
They are so much smarter and edgier than everyone else and, here's the thing with characters like that, there are people who are genuinely edgy and cool and original--and then there are those who are trying too hard to be so.
Nick and Norah fall into the "trying too hard" category.
They're trying so hard I wonder if and when they'll ever have any fun in life.Cross posted at This Insignificant Cinder
oh whatever, EMO) music scene in New York City, Nick and Norah meet and fall in love over a single, remarkable night.
Unfortunately, what had the potential to be a great book fails in its execution.The trouble with a co-written book (Cohn and Levithan wrote alternating chapters, sending the manuscript back and forth) is that half the writing I liked a lot (Cohn's) and half the writing I damn near hated (Levithan's).
I like novels to have a tight story arc.
This novel was a sprawling mess.Billed as a love story, it's really not.
Me: *has flashbacks of gagging while reading this book* I'M NOT THE ONE TO GIVE OUT ANGRY REVIEWS BECAUSE I HAVE RESPECT FOR AUTHORS WORKS.
I WOULD RATHER DIP MY FACE IN A CORROSIVE ACID THAN READ THIS BOOK.
MY FINGERS WOULD TOUCH THIS AND I WOULD SCREAM IN HORROR.I WOULD READ ABOUT UMBRIDGE THAN THIS.
NOPE NOPE NOPE THE CHARACTERS WERE STUPID.
LEMME KISS SOME RANDOM STRANGER TO MAKE MY EX FEEL JEALOUS.
THE CHARACTERS WERE CRAP.
THE WRITING WAS MEH THE PLOT WAS SOMETHING RIGHT OUT OF HELL.
AND I DON'T WANT TO WASTE MORE ENERGY SCREAMING.
Read this back in high school. All the music and the love got me completely obsessed.And don't even let me start on the huge girl crush I had on Tris, please.I'm still not over how disastrously awful the movie adaptation was, though, especially the cast choices. They casted Michael Cera as Nick. FRIGGIN'! MICHAEL! CERA! I'll never not be mad about it.
It also sets the stage for the novel: a first date that makes it through the club scene in New York, a date where everything goes wrong (or maybe it goes right), a date that goes on and on--in a good way, mostly.In other words, "Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist" is a fast story.
Cohn and Levithan keep up this speed with their narratives (Nick and Norah get alternating chapters) which have the verve appropriate to a hip, teen novel.Because this book really is firmly grounded in the Young Adult genre.
it was an okay book, nothing special...
I think at one time I wonder how many times Nick said the "f" word and decided I was too lazy to do a search via my Kindle because I just wanted this book to be over.
Norah finds herself attracted to Nick, but tells herself because of her breakup with her ex Tal (by the way why the hell are these exes names beginning with the letter "T"?) that she is frigid (GOD JUST GET THROUGH THIS SO YOU CAN STOP TALKING ABOUT THIS BOOK) that Nick can't possibly want to be with a girl like her.
I envision Nick working somewhere like The Strand which was featured in "Dash & Lily's Book of Dares" and now I understand some of the places that were mentioned in that book and the bathroom writing on the wall they mentioned in "Dash & Lily's Book of Dares" by the same authors.After reading it I was trying to think of what the writing reminded me of, what with all the musical references and the language used, and I went back to my Textual Healing review and thought, "YES." It's like a feel good teen romantic comedy, loaded with musical and pop culture references.
We are graced, and we are together, and the twoliness is trumping the loneliness and the doubt and the fear. I actually liked this a lot. I had a minor issue with it, but other than that it was a fun and short read. I've come to expect great things from David Levithan and Rachel Cohn. Their characters are always so real and believable, and the struggles we read about are things most of us have actually been through and therefore can totally relate to.The worst:♫ The language in this is way too
I actually liked this a lot.
Their characters are always so real and believable, and the struggles we read about are things most of us have actually been through and therefore can totally relate to.The worst:♫ The language in this is way too overdone with swearing.
I would take the essence of this thought much more seriously if there wasn't unnecessary swearing in it.
Who talks like this?The best:♫ Finally, there's a book with the right idea.
Maybe there's just sexuality, and it's bendable and unpredictable, like a circus performer (...)
"Maybe," I say, "what we're supposed to do is come together.
I noticed this book in our house--my mom was reading it, and the cover both intrigued me and repelled me.
However, after my mom's recommendation, I read this book--and loved it.
It is one of the most dead-on accurate books I've ever read about young emotions and feelings.
Rachel Cohn and David Levithan co-wrote this book, and as I said, completely nailed the angst, heartbreak, humor, tragedy, and hope that young love brings.
This book is also extremely honest: characters are gay, doped up, drunk, sexual, and misguided.
But the honesty and genuine emotion separate this book from the thousands of other young-adult novels from which to choose.
3.75/5 ★ i've been in a slump these past few months so managing to finish this novel in less than 24 hours is a huge shocker. which is to say, i thoroughly enjoyed NICK & NORAH'S INFINITE PLAYLIST. i didn't realize but i needed something light, fun, carefree, and cliché. this was exactly that.this book was short and addictive. i loved the predictable situations and unique characters. although i didn't find anything deliberately special about this novel, i'm very grateful to have picked it up because i think it cured my slump. :))
Surprisingly this was a fun quirky read.
I was/am more ashamed of myself when I had wasted time having reached halfway of this book than when I read a few free chapters of Twilight.
Norah spotted.”If that wasn’t already a bad, immature plot unraveling, the book was written in alternating voices, which in actuality, were just Nick and Norah rephrasing what the other was saying!
I have read Flipped at a young age—another alternating-POV novel—and it’s still one of the richest novels I’ve ever had my hands on.But what I really hate most about this book?
Add in a sighting of Norah's ex-boyfriend and the 5 minutes extend little by little into an all night getting-to-know you and maybe falling a little bit in love experience.This book has a certain writing style that should just drive me mad.
The fact that she’s brilliant and he’s in a super-hot punk band before ever graduating high school and none of their parents care that they wander New York all night is utterly unfathomable.
Needless to say, if those are my two big complaints (one of which is about the movie rather than the book), this was probably a pretty decent read.
It surprised me because I didn't think the movie looked promising at all, and after having read the book I can honestly say I never want to see the movie.
But if you can look past that, you can see two people who come together under somewhat unusual circumstances, do things you'd never expect (the kinds of things that make you say, "I would so do that!"), and help each other through a tough time while falling in love.
No, Nick and Norah get right down to it pretty quickly.
Attraction happens and we should never judge how quickly two people become physically involved.
Street Corner TBR ChallengeMay Pick #5 per Tina.I don’t know if I have ever read a book that I had already watched the movie for.
I usually read the book first and make myself wait to watch the movie.
Hearing the movie was better than the book might have gave me the push….
I kept picturing scenes from the movie, always with a smile, almost like remembering old friends.
I will say though, the movie did a good job of following the book.
I can’t pick which one I like better.
What makes N&N such a good, fun read???
This book was such a disappointment for me.
The characters seem overly quirky, like something out of John Green novel (which isn't a positive for me, sorry).
There's just nothing special about this book.
It's yet another addition to the aggressively heterosexual, aggressively quirky genre, which shocked me coming from David Levithan.
This genre works when the characters and realities of life truly shine through, in books like Perks Of Being A Wallflower and some of David Levithan's other books.
However, this book and many like it simply come off as trying too hard.
I really don't recommend this at all.
3.25 stars! // I actually quite enjoyed this read - it was entertaining, fun, cute, humorous, fast-paced, and the characters were really likable. It wasn't amazing (in my opinion), or a new favorite of mine or anything, but I liked it! Definitely worth the read, since it's also very, very short.
When Norah and Nick choose to wait in order to sexually consummate their relationship, it’s because they want to take it slow and get to know each other.
It’s implied that the characters will continue their romantic relationship even after the novel’s conclusion.It is the flirtatious relationship between Nick and Norah that is most enjoyable in this novel.
Nick has been dumped by Tris and Norah has been dumped by Tal. Both characters are wounded and afraid of being hurt again, but I think that this makes them even more perfect for each other because they know what it's like to be hurt, so they are willing to take it slow and enjoy their romance.
"I don't know how the world broke.
Every minute--every single second--there are a million things you could be thinking about.
A million things you could be worrying about.Our world--don't you just feel we're becoming more and more fragmented?
I used to think that when I get older, the world would make so much more sense.
You know that feeling?
I want to believe in that.""Maybe it isn't that we're supposed to find the pieces and put them back together.
Maybe we're the pieces."The fast pacing made me feel like I was actually part of Nick and Norah's night.
