https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/977388.The_Drunken_Forest
how great is gerald durrell??
he is very great.i have been meaning to read him for ages now, especially since i learned that he frequently deflates pompous brother lawrence in his books; in a good-natured brotherly way.
and i appreciate lawrence durrell like nobody's business, but if ever someone needed to be taken down a peg...
because i would love to do this, and i envy gerald durrell for his freedom, in 1956, to have animals brought right to him, even though he was in paraguay and not australia, so he mainly got some birds and snakes and stuff.
(This latter proved to be in a very sought after area, much to the surprise of the cool and collected representative of the Embassy, who had despaired of getting anyone to agree.) Bebita both seems both to know everyone, and is able to charm everyone, arranging travels and expeditions, and even, in the end, the purchase of the animals at a cheap price from an animal trader, when Durrell had had to let those he had captured go free.The early chapters are packed with descriptions of birds.
This has to be a rare book, where a revolution takes second place to an animal-collecting expedition.
A not so informative review followed by pictures of animals!If I had one complaint about this book it wasn't the un-PCness that Durrell sometimes is guilty of, it's the very brief treatment Foxy, the grey pampas fox is given in the book.
Maybe because the fox is such a common creature to the English he doesn't get nearly the amount of space in the book as equally charming baby Anteater Sarah Huggersack or the baby crab-eating raccoon Pooh.
Some of the situations Durrell finds himself in seem a little too strange to be true, and maybe he takes some literary license to make for a more entertaining read, but that's fine, this is a fun little book to read.
অরণয, পশু পাখি , এদের ধরার ফাঁদ , সেই সাথে পরকৃতির বরণনা । মুগধ হয়ে পড়ার মত একটি বই।
অরণ্য, পশু পাখি , এদের ধরার ফাঁদ , সেই সাথে প্রকৃতির বর্ণনা । মুগ্ধ হয়ে পড়ার মত একটি বই।
Enough good things can't be said about Gerald Durrell and his amazing (true) animal stories. Touching, clever, interesting, very witty and thoroughly compelling. I have seven of his books already, and my collection is steadily growing.Highly recommended.
In order to enjoy Gerald Durrell´s books you have to read him with a certain sense of innocence, share his wild and irrepressible zest for animals, ignore many of the stock rustic characters who innocently bring him a sack containing either an adorable or an extremely vicious new bicho or beef, enjoy slapstick and politely agree not to stare beyond the magnificent dawns or sunsets over drunken or whispering jungles, forests, plains or mountains at real life.On the face of it, this is an account of a rather unsuccessful and not very well planned expedition to Argentina, that winds up going to the Chaco region of Paraguay as well where they have to abandon most of their collection.
all his adventures no matter how serious or painful turn out to be comical and funny making you fall in love with the most ugly, difficult and dangerous animals...He wanders off to various inlands of South America to find the most interesting fauna and collects them like someone collects stamps or coins.
its a treat to see the colorful fauna through the eyes of Durrell who makes the world look like a zoo with all pretty animals doing peculiar and amusing things to entertain you...
Not all GD's books are as funny as the Corfu Trilogy but they are always amiable and present loads of interesting information about the various wildlife and part of the world he was consumed by at the time.
This is far from his best work.
But as with all of his writings, Gerald has very adroitly managed to enlist himself in my list of favourites.
Regardless, his writings seem to have that rare ability to make you laugh out at instances where, if in his position, you could scarcely maintain any semblance of composure.
But Durrell manages to frame an interesting account even with this (very) apparent lack of content.And truly, there isn’t much that happens, but his manner of framing seemingly mundane events is out of this world!For Durrell fans, this is a no-brainer.
I love reading about anyone's passions, even if i don't share them - and not only is Durrell passionate about animals and nature, he writes beautifully descriptive accounts of his adventures and can succintly capture idiosyncratics like no other. Warm and witty without being cheesey, i rate him with james herriot for cosy comforting reads that can make you grin like a loon and laugh out loud more than books which claim to do so. Great to see the illustrations matching the descriptions so well.Loved it.
I veered between enjoying this book and being aghast. The casual racism with indigenous South American and Spanish being described as, variously, dirty, dumb or evil. The horror of collecting animals only to kill or let them go as they couldn't be taken back to England. This book is so much of it's time. Of course here is the light hearted approach you expect from the author of My Family and Other Animals.
The Argentine pampas and the Chaco territory of Paraguay provide the setting for The Drunken Forest. With Durrell for interpreter, an orange armadillo, or a horned toad, or a crab-eating raccoon, or a baby giant anteater suddenly discovers the ability not merely to set you laughing but actually to endear itself to you.
বন-জঙগল, পশু-পাখির সাথে এক নিবির সমপরক জেরালড ডুয়েল এর। পৃথিবী বিখযাত এই ইংরেজ পরকৃতিবিদ ঘুরে বেড়িয়েছেন নানান জায়গায়। তাঁর বিভিনন অভিযান এর বরণনা নিয়েই এ বই।
বন-জঙ্গল, পশু-পাখির সাথে এক নিবির সম্পর্ক জেরাল্ড ডুয়েল এর। পৃথিবী বিখ্যাত এই ইংরেজ প্রকৃতিবিদ ঘুরে বেড়িয়েছেন নানান জায়গায়। তাঁর বিভিন্ন অভিযান এর বর্ণনা নিয়েই এ বই।
Gerald Durrell's knowledge of animals, and his fascinating ability to care for them, shines through in this book, and makes this a very compelling read.
I always enjoy his descriptions of collecting and caring for animals in different geographies.
What I possibly enjoy even more is his recollection of people and his interactions with them, and this book is a treasure trove of such writing.
As did his description of the clownish antics of the armadillos, the raccoon, the horned toad, Cai the monkey, and Sarah, the anteater.
Ultimately this trip is a failure in their eyes according to their mission but the animals and people they meet along the way make a fun book to read.
Durrell has an amazing way of seeing animals as people and describing their behaviour and antics comparably that it is a delight to read.
He also has the same comic descriptive attitude when describing the people he meets or befriends on his trip.
A book fans will enjoy but probably not the one to start with if you haven't read the author before.
Gerald Durrell's The Drunken Forest is a charming little book which provides more of the same amusing anecdotes about animal collecting that can be found in his other works.
Coming straight from another of his books "Three Singles to Adventure" I was at first a bit disappointed with The Drunken Forest.
Not quite as good as Three Singles to Adventure (but not so bad that it deserves less stars), The Drunken Forest is a lovely read if a bit slow to get started.
Ассоциативный ряд служит средством познавания мира.
Если человек воспринимает окружающее, придавая вид знакомых ему вещей, значит у него есть для того весомые аргументы.
Когда в склонившихся пальмах, пузатых деревья и колючих кактусах человек видит бар и его посетителей, то это минимум звонок о необходимости ограничить потребление алкогольных напитков.
Во время посещения Парагвая и Аргентины Джеральду хватало проблем и без этого, ведь компанию ему составила жена, разбавив былое одиночество и обозначив необходимость более взвешенного отношения к жизни, в том числе и согласно основному увлечению Даррелла, выражающегося, как известно, в добывании животных для дальнейшей их переправки в зоологические сады.(c) Trounin
A delighting read - the way Durrell gets into the skin of the animals and almost humanises them is very charming.
While I do not sympathise with Durrell's aim of safeguarding animals by capturing them and rearing them in zoos, the book was an amazing experience, and if he has succeeded in his mission of protecting endangered species through his venture, I'm all the more happy!
Inspired to read his other works (I read My Family and Other Animals a couple of months ago) and learn more about world fauna as well as about Durrell's work.
"The Drunken Forest" does not pretend to be more than it really is-- a collection of humorous animal stories that happened while naturalist Gerald Durrell (writer Lawrence Durrell's younger brother) was collecting specimens from Argentina and Paraguay to take back to England. Durrell does recount some (rather big) political issues that happened while he was collecting, but he keeps the work focused on the animals and how he got them and how he cared for them. "The Drunken Forest" is not a "deep" book, but it is a fun one.
I normally really enjoy Gerald Durrell's books but this one annoyed me for a few reasons (which I do think were actually related to the time it was written).
His later books seemed to be more about learning about animals and conservation, where as this was a big adventure of putting animals in cages, kind of making up their diets (and as a vet, I know how important husbandry is for these animals!) and then after they'd all got a bit tame and been in what sounded like fairly small cages, letting them go somewhere that wasn't their territory.
Just made me a bit angry really.
I don't know but every time I read one of Mr. Durrell's works it fills me up with energy^^This book 
I liked this book. It was upbeat, amusing and gave me an insight of the daily life at another part of the world. I like his way of looking at the animals - I would have been terrified in many of the situations he just wrote down as a slightly more challenging task. It really showed that he knew what he was talking about and at the end of the book he left me with the feeling that I would like to visit the surrounding nature of Buenos Aires.
"The Drunken Forest" features a few more stories than usual involving Durrell being stabbed, bit, clawed, or otherwise damaged by the animals he is trying to collect (stay away from tiger bitterns), although he escapes his (hilarious) encounter with an anaconda unscathed. Otherwise, it's pretty much just more of the same: luckily, with a writer as consistently funny as Durrell, that's exactly what you want.
A very cute book about little animals but I got bit bored reading this one. Of course this book is nonfictional, so one can't expect Hal and Roger stuff here. So there's no problem with that. These guys are obviously amateurs in handling animals, but they do genuinely care for them. But its really bad they had to kill one animal even thought it was a dangerous one. A good naturalist will never decapitate an animal no matter how hard situation gets.
This is the first of Gerald's book that I have read..It was an amazing read..i loved the way he described the south america forests..the animals..each one with its own intricacies..the book was a complete treat to read..I googled about each animal i read about to understand how it looked like!..i especially loved the oven bird described by Gerald.
Snobby Brit and less famous brother of novelist Lawrence Durrell offers amusing stories about collecting unusual animals for English zoos during a trip to the Pampas and Paraguay. I realize dude is a naturalist but he seems strangely incurious to the people around him, save for the occasional story about how silly brown people are.And yet! The illustrations are so cute!
Wonderful story about one of Gerald Durrell's zoo-collecting trips. Every page is funny, fascinating and informative. Like all of his books it is good for all ages without being too sweet for an adult to read and enjoy.
To be honest I never really liked Durrell's South American adventures, they always lacked the spark of his African ones. Here you get the usual - animal behaviour and a couple of eccentrics, but it's not as lively as, say Bafut Beagles or A Zoo in my Luggage.
Not bad, not great. Pretty standard travel narrative. Some interesting situations arose with the revolution in Paraguay and Durrell can be funny at times, but he isn't a brilliant writer. If he elicits a laugh it is because the situation is funny.
When writing about Somalia all day - this is a good antidote.
