https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76951.Hunting_for_Hidden_Gold
If these books weren't so quick to read, I don't know if I would continue reading them. ;) I much prefer the Nancy Drew series. Lol! This story was kind of fun though with the whole hunting for gold part.
Exciting Hardy Boys adventure with incidental music and sound effects. Old mine shafts, hidden gold, wolf pack, blizzard and a ghost town to name a few of these events/things which occur in this story.This would be a great story for a young boy, or in my case, a bored commuter.
In the book, the Hardy brothers Joe and Frank get caught in one of their father's cases and end up risking their and their father's lives.
They get caught up in the mist of Big Al and his gang who want the Hardy boys and their father out of the way of their plans.
Joe and Frank's case about finding missing gold end up connecting a lot with their father's case on trying to catch the gang.One of my favorite characters was Dawson, or really Dodge.
I usually read Hardy Boys books and have no problem, but I was kind of lost in the plot.
A better than average Hardy Boys mystery. There was an actual mystery in this one and it had several layers to dig through. This edition updated some of the language and elements from the original version, but it still a bit of a nostalgia trip. No Chet or any of the usual sidekicks, so it was a little more serious than most of the early books. Still, my youngest enjoyed it and I'd recommend it for any young reader (or parent who reads with one) who enjoys mysteries.
Ok, so i am a very ADHD kinda person, so that really doesn't make me an avid reader. I would rather search the web and play games. But this very book got me into this series. It is a fast paced, action packed story, for even the people with the shortest of attention spans! I recommend his book and its series to anyone! I REPEAT ANYONE!
This was sort of your average Frank and Joe Hardy story. Less compelling than #2 or #6 but still will lots of cliff-hangers and gasps and adventure. Fun to read but after you hit the other high adventures of Fenton's sons.

Carson Drew asked his sons to interview him, before meeting their Dad in Montana.
This widespread, tricky mistrust puts us on the edge of our seats because the teens must scrutinize everyone they meet, all the way to their Dad’s location and decide how to proceed every time.The mining town, not deserted but with many buildings and locations in disuse, is one of the most fun places a book could possibly have an adventure and I will ask my Dad if he remembers reading this one.
Although, once I got to the end of the story I didn't want it to end so I was wishing that I would have read slower just so I could've kept reading it.
To me it was that kind of book that you will always remember being a great story.
Dixon is a great author for kids books and mysteries.
These books are under my reading levels by a lot but that does not matter to me because I love the stories and mysteries!
Great book overall and if you like mysteries also then I suggest you get to reading these Hardy Boys books!
A lot of action, danger, excitement, and mystery! Thrilling read, awesome brothers, cool cover and internal illustrations (some of my faves!)! Frank and Joe do a great job looking out for each other - the blizzard's particularly intense, well, so are a lot of other scenes! Check out my more detailed, but without spoilers, review for this action-packed mystery starring brothers Frank and Joe Hardy @ Hardy and Drew Mysteries. :)
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books. The Hardy Boys, Frank and Joe, are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their father's footsteps.
I really liked this book. In this book frank and joe put someone in jail who should have ben in jail years before.
Great reding the Hardy Boys again after all these years.
The Hardy Boys are a sure bet for any kid who likes adventure and mysteries.A prospector is missing his gold, and a criminal gang prowls around Lucky Lode, a mining town in the the wilds of Montana.
They face danger with a bold spirit and quick thinking.Young readers will enjoy reading about the Hardy Boy's survival tips mixed in with old timey sleuthing.Some of the language is outdated, and there are some red flags that show us these books were written in a different time.
Another exciting adventure loaded with cliffhangers and constant peril out west, where people drop their g's, say things like "reckon" and "if'n" while they're "rustling up some grub," and forgetting where they left the f's they lose every time they try to say "of." The story is corny and it's built around a rather implausible twist, but so what?
But if you want a fun adventure mixed with a compelling mystery, and don't mind a somewhat ridiculous twist, you'll have a good time reading this story.Maybe someday I'll hunt down the original version, which is apparently a very different story, even though it follows the same basic outline.
You think this is the only thing that they are doing m but the Hardys get a call telling them their father wants them to go out to the west to help him on his case.
Then a random man shows up looking for the Hardys because they inquired about him concerning their father's case.
Once Frank and Joe head out, their lives are immediately in jeopardy and their father doesn't seem to care that people are actually trying to kill his sons.
The case is choppy, and the revelation at the end seems a bit of a reach concerning memory.
Note that this review is for the original 1928 edition.
I do not know what changes have been made in later editions.Fenton Hardy is in Montana on a case, leaving his teenage sons at home with their mother and aunt.
One Saturday afternoon they are tempted out skating with a couple of friends, only to be caught in a blizzard.
During the storm they encounter Jadbury Wilson, an old miner, who tells them of the treasures he has lost and found, the last one (coincidentally) in Montana.
When the storm clears, they take him home with them.
I read the realistic fiction book The Hardy Boys: Hunting for Hidden Gold by Franklin W.
Dixon and I really liked it and all the rest of the hardy boys books in the series.
Why I like them is I get a chance to solve the mystery before the Hardy boys because I get the clues as they do and I could pause and try to figure out who the killer is or who did it before they tell me in the book.
Hence, I think anybody who likes to read mysteries as much as I do would like The Hardy Boys series.
The boys go to Montana to help their dad on a case, but end up on a hunt for a cache gold lost 25 years earlier. The head scratcher on this one is that one more than occasion the boys end up on big chases of several days length on more than one occasion, but no one seems too alarmed about their absences. While there are no KO's, Frank and Joe get their clocks cleaned on several occasions. All those sub-concussive traumas have to add up. But the KO count is:Book: 0Series: 2.
The Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew are the first series that I remember reading. I was still in elementary school, but I remember thinking I was reading more grown up books because these were long (more than 20 pages, lol) and there was more than one book you could read with the same main characters! The innocence of these mysteries and recalling my own innocence just makes me happy. All parents should give their kids Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew when they're young - only good things can come of it.
Frank and Joe head out to help their injured father hunt down a notorious gang and hopefully find some missing gold for a poor man back home - but it will taking plenty of pluck to survive wolves, tunnel traps, and a couple shoot-outs if they hope to succeed! Dixon is sure to give readers more fun and mayhem than ever with this adventure!
This book is amazing! I loved the snowy blizzard conditions while Frank and Joe were looking for the lost gold. They find themselves starring down wolves, finding their way through a mine after a cave in, trying to find gold that was buried by a man who had amnesia before Black Pepper found them! You gotta love this book! I highly recommend it to everyone!
By far the most exciting Hardy Boy’s mystery I’ve read so far!! It’s only the 5th book but the villains are starting to see the boys as a force to be reckoned with, thus making the mysteries difficult and dangerous for Frank and Joe. Highly recommended for girls and boys of any age!
It was the Hardy Boys. So it was fun and corny.Being from the West, and having read many westerns, this particular Hardy Boys tale felt a little flatter than most - like a pale imitation of the stock western dime store novel. Ah well, not everyone can be Tony Hillerman.
Classic Hardy Boys reading. I grabbed this one as a quick read from the box set my son received as a Christmas gift and it was fun to go back to my childhood and read a new (to me) Hardy Boys mystery.
Another classic Hardy Boys tale, except this one mostly takes place outside of their hometown of Bayport, as they head to the wilds of Colorado to help their famous father catch some crooks and find some lost gold. This is a good one for those who like Western settings as well as mysteries.
You want to talk about an exciting mysterious book! Hunting for Hidden Gold is another one of my favorites especially when you are able to listen to it on the "One-drive" app. It has background noise to help make the story come more alive as the "presenter" reads the book to the audience.
Man, those Hardy boys can do anything! Great adventure "out west," complete with outlaws, cowboys, and buried treasure.
Perfect simplistic mystery for your struggling readers.
Hunting for Hidden Gold: Frank and Joe go west. I love their adventures in new places and the change of scenery was enjoyable. But overall the story was a little weak.
