https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65030.Confessions_of_a_Crap_Artist
It is the shadows and penumbra of PKD’s schizophrenia that spice this family drama set in Marin County, California in the late 1950s, giving it a delicious and hypnotic tone, like wild Patsy Cline singing a heartfelt ballad, it is the underlying vibrance that makes it great.
Ultimately this is also an indictment, in Dick’s unique presentation, of middle class bourgeois suburban values in the 1950s.What else makes this a great read for a reader in 2013 is the Steinbeck-like glimpse of 1950s life in Northern California.
The moods of the mass can't be fathomed, that's a fact."- Philip K.
Dick, Confessions of a Crap ArtistJack Isadore is a bit a lune.
Eventually, he ends up living with his rich sister and her husband.
It seems most people, even those who seem to have "everything" and fit into our reality better, are only a couple inches away from the void.I went into this book blind.
I've read a bunch of other Philip K.
Dick's ability to capture characters is on point in this book.
All the major characters are amazing, especially Jack's sister Fayy Hume and her husband Charley.
If nothing else, Dick has some of the most original titles in the book world. I'm always impressed by his philosophies, humor, and characters. CONFESSIONS OF A CRAP ARTIST was a powerful read for me.
I've never read a book about so many irredeemable assholes before.
Children, maybe, but PKD pretty much completely ignores them, milking the assholes instead for all they are worth.
It got really hard to read towards the middle, not so much because it was tedious or badly written, but because I wanted to rip the book to shreds every couple of minutes after something some asshole said or thought.
I can't imagine how hard it must have been to write.
I think PKD could have finished it with an epilogue to the effect of: "And this is why I write science fiction.
We are all crap artistsConfessions of a Crap Artist is fantastically well-written novel by Philip K. Dick. A novel of two halves, one of a small-town Californian domestic drama, the other an analysis of post-Roswell paranoia in America, it contains some of Philip K. Dick's best writing. Despite not being one of his popular science fiction tales, this realist novel contains all the philosophical depth, pondering and Freudian insight found in his most popular books.
Δεν είχα ξαναδιαβάσει Φίλιπ Κ. Ντικ. Λόγω του (καταπληκτικού) τίτλου και μόνον, προτίμησα να ξεκινήσω με αυτό, αντί του γνωστότερου και πιο αναγνωρισμένου Ουμπικ. Αποδείχθηκε σωστή επιλογή, κυρίως γιατί πρόκειται για ένα από τα λίγα έργα του Ντικ που δεν είναι Ε.Φ. - που δεν την πολυσυμπαθώ ή, πιο σωστά, δεν την καλογνωρίζω. Διασκεδαστικό και σκοτεινό ταυτόχρονα, με όλες τις αμερικανικές ψυχώσεις της δεκαετίας του '50, ένα οικογενειακό δράμα στην ουσία, με ολίγη από ψυχολογία και εσχατολογία. Μια χαρά.
I loved this book - I think I may have read it at least 5 times. I have read almost all of Philip K. Dick's novels and this is by far my favorite.
There's a great French film based on this book, too. Check out "Barjo"
That cover is complete fucking bullshit.Anyway, this one's more of a relationship/ family drama.
I felt that it was readily apparent in this book that its author was trying to work things out.
Really, I do think this is a good thing.
But sometimes the story suffered for it because I think sometimes these meanderings, these attempts to figure out the puzzle, forced the story in directions not completely natural.But perhaps the questions posed are more important than the story they came from?
Jelikož si rozšiřuji obzory, šáhl jsem po své první knížce od Filipa Kokota.
Jako velký odpůrce sci-fi jsem sice už přečetl několik jeho knížek v televizi, hlavně Total Recall se Švancikem jsem četl už několikrát, ale na záchodě jsme se ještě nikdy nepotkali.
Toto většinou oceňuji, ale zde mě to iritovalo, protože všichni byli opravdu nesnesitelní.
Fay, hlavní ženskou hrdinku, která všechny přivede na pokraj nervů už nechci nikdy vidět, nebo mě na ten pokraj přivede taky.
Takovou krávu a megeru jsem roky nečetl.
Naštěstí ale píše Kokot docela svižně a sem tam s hezkou dávkou sarkasmu, takže to uteklo celkem rychle.
wow, a difficult book to assess.you wouldn't think there'd be that much difference between how people thought in the 1950s and now.
(all reported in the most 1950s freudian-analyst terms, which, while sometimes delightfully retro, do make one wish for a long, hot shower after.) for me this is the central problem of this book: how to see fay?
and who in her life (besides her children) is there really to care for, that cares for her?so fay is a problem.her husband, charley, is an interesting sort--he holds all the cards, and yet has convinced himself that he's been victimized by his wife.
It's almost like Dick works out all his frustrations with men, women, and marriage in this novel. Really had no idea what to expect, although I was surprised both by the lack of any real science fiction element and by how much I enjoyed it. I think the continuing change of perspective really helped. Hard not to see this as highly autobiographical in some parts, although I don't know enough about his marriages to speak with any authority. Take away: Everybody is a crap artist--it just takes some of us longer than others to come to this realization.
I had not read this Dick novel previously, and found myself experiencing cognitive dissonance since much of it takes place in rural Marin county, a real place, and much of that action is surreal without being science fictional: no Mars, no radioactive dust, no androids, and yet somehow this is of a piece with novels like "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?" and "Martian Time Slip". As I read and reread Dick, I am becoming persuaded that he is one of the most significant American novelists of the last century.
"Confessioni" è uno di quei pochi lavori di Dick che non rientra nel genere sci-fi, al contrario, non c'è contesto più ordinario in cui possa essere ambientata la vicenda.
Allo stesso tempo troviamo tutto quello che contraddistingue Dick, non solo come autore ma anche come individuo, e quindi: la paranoia, la misoginia, il fanatismo religioso, il senso di inadeguatezza a questo mondo.
Riguardo la sua situazione di "artista di merda", ovvero rifiuto della società, genio incompreso ma anche un molto ingenuo e non del tutto sano di mente, non solo è capace di inquadrarla con occhio critico ma riesce anche a far uso dell'ironia, il ché non credo sia così comune tra chi soffra davvero di problemi come i suoi.
I knew Little of Philip K .Dick until I started university, but one of the modules on my course in popular culture required us to study Blade Runner, and the book it was based on Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep.
I found some of the popular culture modules mind numbing particularly the philosophy of adorno and horkheimer culture industry for example.
However one of the bonus’s that came from the course was discovering Phillip as an author, and I have been a fan ever since.
It’s also extremely well written, the words just flow of the page into your mind, making it quite a light read.
All I want is to see the blame spread around fairly."And thus we have Confessions of a Crap Artist - the novel that makes transparent all of the little insanities that we conceal so well!
Dick novel, it's a little out there - even the most normal character, Nathan Anteil, somehow manages to find himself in love with the most conventionally crazy character, Fay. I mean, I get it...
I liked it, but it's difficult to recommend.
I'd like to give it a 3.5/5, but lacking the option, I'd go with a 3!
(written 4-05)I saw the movie based on this book first - "Barjo" - it was in French I think.
Fay is the crazy controlling sister of Jack, who is also crazy.
In the movie I thought she had homoerotic moments with Gwen, but in the book it is just Nat she has an affair with.
He thought, Actually a human being is an unfolding biological organism that's every so often gripped by instinctive forces.
They force him to do something.
Nobody reads the letters to the editor column except more nuts.
It's enough to get you down." - Jack 245
A "non-genre" novel by PKD.
The only one of several he wrote during the fifties to be published during his life-time - though twenty or so years after it was written.
This was a revelation.
Were there many books like this written in the fifties?
Is this what it was really like in California during that time?
It is an oddball family situation that would be a-typical even if set in these crazy modern times.What a weird and wonderful book!
Why isn't Quentin Tarantino or the Cohen Brothers making this film?PKD was simply a brilliant writer.
Jack Isidoro es un tipo estrafalario que cree que el mundo se va a acabar el 23 de abril. Pero la parte más extraña de la historia es la siguiente: personajes "normales" como su hermana y algunos de sus vecinos están aún peor de la cabeza. Explora que significa la locura y nuestra forma de percibir la realidad. Te mantiene enganchado con su historia desde el inicio. Es sin duda uno de los mejores libros de Philip K. Dick.
The only "straight" novel of Dick's I've read. It's also one of his best. Reading this you can see that his ability to portray a specific time and place through the intimate portrayal of his character's thoughts and habits is what makes his "out there" novels so great.
Αν διαβάσεις πολύ προσεκτικά τον τίτλο και το οπισθόφυλλο, αποκτάς μια πάρα πολύ σαφή εικόνα, για κάποιο άλλο βιβλίο.Το "Πριν από το τέλος του κόσμου" δεν είναι ένα τυπικό βιβλίο του Philip K.
Υπάρχει ο Τζακ Ίσιντορ, η αδερφή του η Φαίη και ο άντρας της ο Τσάρλι.
Ο Τζακ είναι αυτό που κάποιοι θα έλεγαν εκκεντρικός, κάποιοι άλλοι ιδεοψυχαναγκαστικός και κάποιοι λιγότερο διαλλακτικοί, σαλεμένος.
Αντιθέτως, η Φαίη και ο Τσάρλι, διάγουν μια  απολύτως κανονική ζωή.
Με χαρακτήρες πολύ ρεαλιστικούς, που εμπλέκονται σε πολύ ρεαλιστικές καταστάσεις (ο υπότιτλος είναι "Το χρονικό ενός εξακριβωμένου γεγονότος"), σκιαγραφείται η παθογενής Αμερική του '50.
Dick--but it's not science fiction!
So, a little disappointing, but the story is of some interest as it's Dick pointing out--yet again--the absurdity of life.
Jack Isidore is the "crap artist," so named by his brother-in-law because he's a collector of "crackpot" ideas, such as his belief in a hollow Earth.
Unable to support himself, Jack moves in with his sister's family in their farmhouse in West Marin County in Northern California.
But, while Jack seems unconnected to reality, it turns out that his sister Fay and her husband Charley are no less closed off to reality--only in a more acceptable way in their 1950s California suburban environment.
so interesting to read a non science fiction from philip k dick; but he seems well prepared to take on the form, set in the 1950's in northern california.
there are a handful of players - a man, barely able to keep himself together, his (fairly) affluent sister and her husband and their two daughters, and a young married couple who move to north west marin, the setting for the examination of civilization and its discontents.
a rather bleak tale unfolds, told from the perspective of the central characters in slightly different styles to reflect their personalities and interests.
good stuff from start to finish.
Arada böyle kendi türünden çıkma amaçlı romanlar yazmak iyi olsa da neyse ki PKD birkaç kitap denemesiyle birlikte ana akım roman yazmayı denemeyi bırakmış. Bilimkurgu romanlarındaki harika fikirlerden daha çok tat alıyorum açıkçası.
3.5. I am not sure what I just read however, it was interesting, disturbing and matter of fact. For something different ... I recommend it.
My Philip K. Dick ProjectEntry #17 - Confessions of a Crap Artist (written Mid 1959, published 1975) Confessions of a Crap Artist contains Dick’s most assured and confident writing yet, at turns both bracing and hilarious. After the disappointing Dr. Futurity, a throwback to Dick’s earlier, clunkier style, this book was a joy to read. This is the only “straight", non-sci-fi novel of Dick’s to be published during his lifetime, and it’s not hard to see why. It’s easily the best of the bunch so far
Fay is the sister of Jack Isidore, the title character, dubbed a “crap artist” by Charley, his brother-in-law.
Jack is one of Dick’s best characters, and his chapters are my favorites.
But it soon becomes evident to Jack that Fay and Charley are as troubled as he.
For the first time I can recall, aside from possibly a few of his short stories, Dick writes in the first person, in Jack and Fay’s chapters.
The last chapter, detailing Jack’s epiphany as he calmly awaits the end of the world, is one of Dick’s best passages ever, at the same time humorous and yet sad.
Hey, Jack Isadore, the titular 'crap artist' belongs to a UFO cult that had him pick the date for the end of the world as April 23.
A fourth character, Nat Antiel, is an intelligent scholar, but is no match for the iron will of Jack's psychopathic sister Fay. She crushes him like an insect.
In the book there is a UFO Doomsday Cult that expects the world to end on April 23rd.
The world did not end, either in the book or in real life.
Where the world doesn't end.
"So this is how the world ends," he said to her.
This is Dick's pathetic attempt to write in someone else's voice: the voice of a successful mainstream writer that he had no hope of becoming.I am reminded of a story I read about Astor Piazzolla, the brilliant progenitor of Tango Nuevo, who studied under the inestimable tutor of a whole generation of composers (including Copland and Gardiner), Nadia Boulanger.
Boulanger saw his tangos and recognized immediately that his compositional voice lie there, and encouraged him in the pursuit of this less respectable, but more honest expression of Piazzolla's talents and vision.If Dick had had a Boulanger around he might never have written this middling, ineffective novel.
It was refreshing to read a Philip Dick novel that did not end in the tiresome alternate reality 'revelation' trope that so often muddles and mires his sci-fi novels.
The central characters are Jack's sister, Faye Hume, a strong willed, manipulative modern day Lady MacBeth; Charley Hume, Faye's self-deluded uxorious husband who, when drunk, shamefully realizes his uxoriousness and explodes in scenes of horrific violence; and a young couple, Nate and Gwen, whose friendship suddenly complicates the affairs of the Humes.
The plot is simple, dealing with infidelity and its aftermath, but Dick's strong characterizations of Faye and Charley make the novel engrossing and fulfilling.
On the basis of CONFESSIONS I will be visiting his other non sci-fi, mainstream novels.
I just can't read Philip K Dick's "mainstream" fiction.
This book is supposed to be the best of his mainstream novels, and I gave it a chance, I really did.
Very little actually happens in Dick's mainstream books.
And to think he's the genius behind dozens of amazing sci fi novels.
I know he wanted more than anything to be a mainstream novelist, and for awhile was embarrassed to be a sci fi writer, but God, he should have taken what was given him and left the rest well enough alone.
He just can't write "mainstream." This is the last mainstream novel of his I attempt to read.
