https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1006997.A_Buyer_s_Market
2. -- A BUYER'S MARKET And so the Dance continues in its beginnings. The second period interval is still part of the dawn of times. The main contribution with this term is that the dancers begin to acquire shape. They also become much more numerous, and I now begin to fear a multitude, given how poor my memory for names is, when the do not have a face. Luckily I am accompanying my read with an audio version, which appropriately adds the musicality of the human voice to the dance. The brilliant
2. -- A BUYER'S MARKET
And so the Dance continues in its beginnings.
Luckily I am accompanying my read with an audio version, which appropriately adds the musicality of the human voice to the dance.
When there are Buyers, there are also Sellers.
Power and the Arts cavorting and frolicking in a dazed prance.But the dance continues and is beckoning me… I ought to go back.
Bohemians and freeloaders, socialites and beautiful people are all in a hurry to partake in the agit
This is the second novel in the Dance to the Music of Time series, following on from A Question of Upbringing.
This introduction serves the reader to understand the various relationships in Nick’s life, as he meets up with Mr Deacon again after a dinner party at the Walpole-Wilsons.
These novels are very much a series and, although they do work as stand-alone books, it is much better – and makes more sense – to read them in the order they are intended to be read in.
Jumping to a later point of the present novel, this aspect is spelled out even more clearly when the closing scene brings in focus another painter friend of Jenkins, this time an exponent of the younger generation named Barnby: His life's unusual variety of form provided a link between what I came, in due course, to recognise as the world of Power, as represented, for example, by the ambitions of Widmerpool and Truscott, and the imaginative life in which a painter's time is of necessity largely spent: the imagination, in such cases, being primarily of a visual kind.
I've wondered from time to time what Max Pilgrim's smutty song Tess of Le Touquet actually sounded like. Yesterday, thanks to Yllacaspia, I was introduced to  Fiji Fanny.  I can't help feeling that there might be some connection here... what do other Dancers think?
Along with various other characters (Nick's uncle, Jean Templer, Mark Members, JG Quiggin, Bill Truscott, etc.).Book Two ('A Buyer's Market') deals with Nick and some new characters, and many of the old, as they maneuver through the social dinners, dances and teas that seem designed to both stratify society AND bring together these young people together to get married; to find adequate husbands for daughters and satisfy the social or monetary need of the men who are just starting to 'make something' of their lives.Events seem to guide the paths of these people in and out of each others lives.
"A Buyer's Market" is the second book in Anthony Powell's twelve novel sequence "A Dance To The Music of Time" and it picks up the narrative in 1928, via a flashback to Paris where narrator Nick Jenkins introduces us to an artist called Mr Deacon.
and their search takes them to a succession of social events that Nick recounts in the same first hand manner of "A Question of Upbringing".
"A Buyer's Market" takes the narrator, Nick Jenkins, to London in the late 1920s.
Much of the novel is set at either upscale parties, or with a group of bohemians that revolve around the artist Mr Deacon.The title of the book suggests that the parties are a kind of marketplace.
People attend the parties to meet marriage prospects and sexual partners.
The parties are also an opportunity to make business contacts, the 1920s version of networking.
It was important to climb the social ladder by mingling with people of a high social class."A Buyer's Market" introduces the reader to new characters and revisits Jenkins' friends from school.
From Wiki:A Buyer's Market is the second novel in Anthony Powell's twelve-novel series, A Dance to the Music of Time.
Published in 1952, it continues the story of narrator Nick Jenkins with his introduction into society after boarding school and university.The book presents new characters, notably the painter Mr. Deacon and his dubious female acquaintance Gypsy Jones, as well as reappearances by Jenkins' school friends Peter Templer, Charles Stringham and Kenneth Widmerpool.
The action takes place in London high society in the late 1920s, focusing on a handful of close-knit incidents which illustrate the flowing and weaving nature of the passage of time.
I adore this series so much, the 1920s setting, the characters, the parties, the hints at things to come. Brilliant and hilarious.
I am quite mesmerised by Anthony Powell's style now that I have got used to it.
The following description of one of the characters gives a flavour of Powell's style:"She dressed usually in tones of brown and green, colours that gave her for some reason, possibly because her hats almost always conveyed the impression of being peaked, an air of belonging to some dedicated order of female officials, connected possibly with public service in the woods and forests, and bearing a load of responsibility, the extent of which was difficult for a lay person - even impossible if a male - to appreciate, or wholly to understand."I took a long time reading this book because of other things coming between me and it, not because of a lack of enjoyment.
In book 2, Nick and his school friends are in their 20's, and have entered the real world of work and pleasure. The excellent writing continues, with intimations of complications ahead.
In this, the second novel in Powell’s twelve-volume series, A Dance to the Music of Time (and the books absolutely must be read sequentially!), new personages are introduced: Mr. Deacon, Barnby, Barbara Goring, the Walpole-Wilsons; and Widmerpool reappears.
It's interesting to see Nick Jenkins and the other young men from A Question of Upbringing in their 20s in the 20s. Some fascinating new characters emerge. Lots of art and social commentary. But mostly the deliciously wonderful writing that just rolls over the reader in a salty surf of words. :)
Here we see more clearly than the first novel Powell's conception of his social circle over the decades as a dance.
By the end of the novel, Jenkins has even entered among political radicals, who go on to play a large role in the third volume of the series.Perhaps Powell isn't for everyone.
As I write this, I look forward to going on and re-reading THE ACCEPTANCE WORLD.All twelve volumes of "A Dance to the Music of Time" have been reissued by University of Chicago Press in four handsome trade paperbacks.
There you get short introductions to characters, traditional plot movements, transparent prose and above all variety.
Anyway, as in Proust (and Marias), we're pretty much without plot, something of which I often disapprove.
We conclude with his death, which is followed, uncomfortably, by the narrator fucking Mr. Deacon's young lady friend (who, uncomfortably, has fooled Widmerpool into paying for an abortion, probably by promising him her favors, and then not actually given him any favors) in Deacon's antique shop.So the narrator's generation takes over from that of their parents: Deacon dies, Uncle Giles is rendered more and more silly, and even the high and mighty end up looking much more down to earth.
I found this more difficult than Book 1 and it's taken me several weeks to finish.
I think I've had, at least, two problems.
First, I've had great difficulty caring about Powell's characters.
I don't need to like them.
After all, sometimes the most compelling characters are unlikeable.
But so far, I feel quite indifferent to them.
(And there are dozens!) Their dialogue is opaque, their motivations murky and their stories meaningless to me.
It's as if the author is speaking a different language.I know Powell is well-regarded and Dance is considered his masterpiece, so clearly the failing is mine.
Book 3 awaits.
It's the "Roaring '20s", a time of dances, dinner parties and late night gatherings for the fashionable London crowd that our narrator, Nick Jenkins, hangs with.
There are ladies, some young, some not so young, whose charms, at first, infatuate and who eventually go on to disappoint the young Jenkins.
Many memorable characters from "A Question of Upbringing" are here as well including schoolmates Widmerpool, Stringham and Peter Templer.
He does so in precise, witty prose that beautifully describes Jenkins' thoughts, observations and reflections on this unique period.
There are interesting new characters presented here as well including the enigmatic Mr. Deacon and the mysterious Gypsy Jones among others.
OK so book 1 was uni, book 2 is knocking around parties trying out relationships/ideas for careers, all the while storing up little nuggets of plot that we keep getting told will be important later... Blimey, how much later!? I've read 2 books already! I'm sure Powell has done something very clever/impressive, and I will read book 3 (as I've already bought it), but I seriously doubt that the other 9 will work their way into my TBR pile any time soon...
First, the life of Edgar Deacon, a bad painter and family friend of narrator Nick Jenkins' whose reappearance helps put in motion his escape from the world of balls and debutantes the book opens in.
Even if you spent them at shit indie discos not coming-out balls.)As usual, Nick's own progress is the background theme to the formal action, as every other character has a more dynamic time of it, even if we only glimpse their advancing stories in vignettes and snatches of conversation.
»Devant une telle phrase, le lecteur peu pressé, qui savoure le Livre comme on savoure la beauté et le mystère d'un texte sacré, est irrémédiablement amené à se souvenir à son tour, de ces multiples incidents de sa vie qui, jugés communs voire vulgaires au moment où ils se sont produits, ont, en bout de piste, constitué des points tournants dans sa vie.M. Powell poursuit en ce sens dans les derniers mots du roman : « For reasons not always at the time explicable, there are specific occasions when events begin suddenly to take on a significance previously unsuspected; so that, begin in earnest at last, and we ourselves, scarcely aware that any change has taken place, are careering uncontrollably down the slippery avenues of eternity.
While I'm not quite invested in the characters yet (the story needs come conflict) they are growing on me, but I think the plot needs to expand somewhat before their lives have some context.It is a better book that the first though: Powell's prose remains a key attraction and I found London society life more interesting that the school days of the previous novel.
This is principally because the parties Jenkins attends produce some interesting characters and amusing moments.What lets the overall plot down in my opinion, was how the established characters from the previous book were reintroduced.
Anthony Powell starts with a discourse about a minor, unfashionable artist Nick's parents knew and he met a few times before mentioning Barbara Goring, Nick's first and possibly only serious love.
We also know, quite early in the book, that Nick and Barbara's romance does not prosper to a happy conclusion because later he is no longer invited to dine with her uncle and aunt, so Powell also dispenses with suspense.So why should you read on?For one thing, Widmerpool turns up (and to make us readers appreciate the appearance of such an unhappy, driven, humourless character is masterful) and because Powell is such a stunningly good writer.
In addition to that, don't you want to know what goes wrong between Nick and Barbara or which other characters might turn up, new and old?
Second time round - still wonderful.
Nick, Widmerpool, Stringham, Mr Deacon and the gang go round the merry go round of time again in a buyers market: for love, power and art.
Powell has been called the British Proust - and the subject is the passing of time and the life lived within.
And Powell is so hilarious and entertaining - with set pieces of four parties in the 1920s.
The writing is effervescent and full of witty asides - with passages of pure poetry - describing life and the ambiance of the settings and era and time of life.
Still waiting for the plot to form, but that prose! How can someone weave such deliciously intricate sentences is beyond me.
and, well, more of the same....I recently discovered and (somewhat skeptically) embarked upon Powell's epic series, A Dance to the Music of Time, and - frankly, not really knowing what I was getting into - was quite taken with the first installment.
I'm also more than willing to abandon a series, regardless of my investment, if I feel it's lost its way.) The result is that, having completed the first two books in the series, my current assessment is that I expect that I'll continue to read and enjoy the series, but I'll probably let a little more time pass between installments.
Book two of Antony Powell's cycle of twelve novels sees Nicholas Jenkins move into early adulthood.
Characters disappear and then return later to the dance of time.
The once easily-dismissed, Widmerpool sees his star start to rise through sheer tenacity and determination to 'get on' rather than any great talent and despite a far from appealing personality.
The mysterious industrialist and politician, Sir Magnus Donners also appears surprisingly tepid as a character despite his wealth and material success.The currents of social change begin to be felt and a range of classes and nationalities start to be observed at London's society parties.
This book also sees the first death of a character- the eccentric artist and antique shop owner, Mr. Deacon.
This is a strange book: very readable, and yet very little seems to happen.
It's almost as it's setting up a plot that is barely begun when the book rather abruptly ends.
It's a while since I read the first book in the series, which was a bit of a disadvantage, as you keep having to try and refer back to the first book, where possible, to figure out who so and so is; plainly it's someone we should remember from the first episode.
I'm looking forward to moving onto book three some time soon (unless I go back and read the first one again, to reacquaint myself better with the overall story....)
This for me was rather slow going - I got quickly tired of the parties, of Sillery, of some of the hyperboles, and the main character's apparent detachment from most that is going on around him: he is the narrator who does not seem to add much to an omniscient narrator's voice. I am glad I got this as part of the "movement" set of three volumes, as I might have otherwise let the series go.
Reading #59. What’s left to say? Powell has gripped my imagination since 1979, and I’ve read A Dance to the Music of Time at least once a year (often more frequently) since. Never gets old.
