https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33727.Welcome_to_Temptation
5 Stars!! My kind of crazy!Welcome to Temptation, home of the flesh colored, phallus bullet shaped water tower, where morals and reputation are everything…until the Dempsey sisters come crashing into town. Meet Sophie Dempsey, film maker, nervous Nelly, surrogate mother to her sister and brother, and  sexually unfulfilled . Meet Mayor Phineas Tucker, bookstore owner, town-hottie, single dad, and all too willing  sexual fantasy fulfill-er !!The documentary Sophie and her sister are filming is slo
My kind of crazy!Welcome to Temptation, home of the flesh colored, phallus bullet shaped water tower, where morals and reputation are everything…until the Dempsey sisters come crashing into town.
Meet Sophie Dempsey, film maker, nervous Nelly, surrogate mother to her sister and brother, and 
sexually unfulfilled
sexual fantasy fulfill-er
!!The documentary Sophie and her sister are filming is slowly turning into porn.
Some of the residents are upset, while a few want to join the fun.Welcome to Temptation, where lust and whole lot of crazy has taken over...Great book…lots of laughs.
The banter between Sophie and Phin just flowed, like a great improvised comedy routine.
"Honey I know Phin's running all over town having sex in public with that movie skank, but he needs a son and you need to settle down at the ripe old age of 20 so of course you'll still be marrying him when he gets the skank out of his system." Are you kidding me?
This happened in "Agnes", too, the male lead sometimes referencing classic movies, but it wasn't quite as pervasive in that book.Also, the plot itself is pretty damn stupid because, look, I'm all for women being empowered at any age and "I am woman, hear me roar" and all that, but the reality is NO ONE wants to see a fifty year old porn star.
I have two regrets about this book though, #1 it was written by the same author as the last book that I read, Faking It. I bought them at the same time but I should have read them in reverse order.
The second regret was that once I finished the book, I went to the authors website and read her biography.
I understand what the author is trying to do here with her books.
What I like about this book as well as the other one, is that they were about real relationships.
Totally over the top and corny, but such good escapism!Sophie and her sister Amy travel to the small town of Temptation to film a movie for a hollywood star Clea, who grew up there.
But I liked the premise of this one, and it shows up on peoples favourite romance lists all around the world so it was about time I read it.I couldn't source a copy (reasonably priced that is) so ended up opting to use up a credit on audible.
I loved her rendition of all the characters, especially Clea!I think it is the quirkiness that got me in this book.
Temptation felt like a character of its own with all its fun residents and events.
As in this painting, the temptations of the small Midwestern town conveniently named Temptation were not apparent to me.
I was willing to buy that this mayor jerk (despite encumbering bitch mother and precocious daughter) and this rotting, ill-decorated house in this boring, oppressively conservative, horrible humid small town were what Sophie wanted even if they all sounded like Hell to me.
Oh, but Temptation is supposed to lead us to Hell!
Maybe this is all a secret coded religious message about avoiding Temptation?
Mm, probably not, but I'll avoid the town just in case.
I'm one of the four people in the world who hate this book.
Here's why.Admittedly, there's a lot to like about this book.
I don't think Sophie's first impressions of him are too far off--he's a snob, and arrogant, and sometimes mean.
In a town of like 1000 people.
The fact that we learn about his daughter at almost the halfway point of the book is inexcusable.
Sophie's family.
I just can't feel empathy for Amy or Davey.
5. Sophie.
Why was Phin so into Sophie?
Why does everyone like this book so much?
I am loving the way JC writes: lots of witty one liners, quick comebacks and subtlety.
You'd think most books were good on the subtle aspects of things the author wants you to pick up on, but no.
I loved Bet Me, and I loved this.I'm a bit of a sucker for small town romance, it's always so sweet and atmospheric.
I loved Sophie!
Phin was sexy as hell, his slow and sure loss of control over his feelings for Sophie was beautiful to see.
She grew up a little by the end so I was cool with her.
Just from the title you can probably guess this is what I call a "smut novel".
It is a true guilty pleasure, at least for me.
Embarrassing to say, I've read it three times, each time straight through.
I'm not a huge fan of these types of books but Jennifer Crusie did it right with this one.
(Sorry if I offended anyone with my pre-school referral to body parts - it's a hazard of my profession.) And if you enjoy this you should definitely read Crusie's later novel, "Faking It" - another guilty pleasure, 2nd only to "Welcome to Temptation".
5 Stars...Thanks Tammy! This is the second book you've recommended to me and it was as great as the last!FANFREAKINTASTIC!The chemistry, the suspense, the fun and the not at all what you expected ending is what makes this book a total keeper. But I have to warn you...it'll drag you in before you know it and every chore you had planned to do will be thrown by the wayside...Enjoy!!!
I mean, can you go any less romantic than this?Minus 2 Stars.The love story between the two protagonist is more a physical story where they say “F-word me” to each other most of the time, which leads to many cheap scenes I could have lived better without.
Minus 1 star.At about 60% of the book there’s a crime mystery to solve that is the only thing that saved this book from ending up on the not-to-read-shelf, I still would not suggest it, but I will not ban it to the dreaded shelf.
23 March 2015: $3.99 on KindleReview cross-posted from hereI've read this book many times over the years.
It's not my favorite by Crusie (that would be Bet Me), but it is one that I come back to frequently.I've said recently that I don't think "humourous" books are for me, and I still think that's true because I stumble over most of them, but the humour in this one works for me.
Dialogue is crisp, and conversations are real.What draws me back to this book the most though is the pure fun of it.
Third thing that bothered me was that I thought the book was supposed to be kind of funny.
I read a few reviews that led me to believe I would chuckle out loud at this one.
Don't get me wrong, I'm sure I smiled a few times while reading this...but laugh out loud?
Or maybe it just wasn't my kind of humor...yeah, that's probably it.Ok, even after all of that I still really liked it.
So if you're in the mood for something cute, sweet, and sexy then Welcome to Temptation would be a great choice!
Great story !! Welcome to Temptation Had both,an excellent murder mystery plot line and well constructed characters....Definatly wasn't predictable :) Loved it ! Wish there had been an epilogue after the ending though,felt a bit incomplete.
3.5/5; 4 stars; B+Well, despite some really over the top characters and incidents this was pretty funny and a satisfying (if odd) romance.
I loved Sophie and Phin was a great match for her and seeing them become each exactly what the other needs was great fun.A note about Steamy: Crusie has an interesting way with the steam in this book--something I haven't noticed elsewhere.
The actual explicit bits are quite rare and very short--a page and some at most.
, Crusie also puts in a lot of both build up and wind down so not only are those scenes surrounded by emotional byplay that makes them seem longer than they are, the same emotional notes are hit frequently throughout the book so it feels like there is a lot more explicit stuff than there really is.
Until now I've enjoyed all of the Crusie books I've read but this one just didn't resonate with me.
They have lots of supposed fantasy sex (that was a bit boring, if you ask me) and the mayor gets into hot water because the town is afraid the movie the sisters are making is going to be nothing but porn.
Someone dies, a water tower gets painted several times, the aging starlet has sex with the son of her former lover, a young girl falls in love a porn producer (I found this storyline creepy-gross) and other assorted things happen that I found unbelievable.
An understated, snarky, sneak-up-on-you kind of love story that I thoroughly enjoyed. This book felt so matter-of-fact. It didn't feel like a romance for much of the book. And then it did. Phin the Bear meets Sophie the pornographer. Their love is a reluctant one... I loved his lackadaisical attitude and her vulnerability hidden under thorns. Excellent supporting characters. A mystery. Everything for which I could ask. Jennifer Crusie is finding a place in my heart.
not interestedhttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
So many players, so many games. It was kind of difficult to keep up with all the characters and families and motives!As for the story, it was enjoyable; however, I wouldn't say it's going to be particularly memorable. The author set this up to be a series, but I don't think I'm invested in any of the characters enough to continue with it. (But I've been proven wrong before!)
This is the only the second book I've read by Jennifer Crusie, and I gotta tell ya.. so far she's SOLD my on her story-telling and writing!Her Characters are colorful and interesting, and the situations they find themselves in are funny and almost surreal, but surprisingly believable (that's how good the writing is).Just finished the book, gotta get my review sorted out in my head.Review to come :)
A great re-read, and even better the second time around. :-)
1 star for the audiobook narrator.
It’s a lovely developing romance.The first time I read it I thought it was great and laughed a lot.
The middle felt slow, but the ending was great.
The middle wasn’t as slow when listening to the audiobook.AUDIOBOOK NARRATOR:Aasne Vigesaa (AV) was not good.
It was hard for me to get into the story.
She read too fast.
I recommend AV listen to Will Patton and Frank Mueller to see how great narrators do it.
Swearing language: strong including religious swear words but not often used.
Sexual language: strong but not used much.
I absolutely loved this book.
I can't even adequately explain why.
I loved the entire Dempsey family.
Davy especially, who gets his own story later.
Like the other books I've read by JC, there were slightly imbalanced villains who try but fail to sabotage the H/H relationship.
This time, it was actually kind of acceptable.
The small town drama with its politics was endearing and the comedy was definitely well executed.
Sophie and Phin's interactions were witty and hot.
The pool game and their first time were pretty hot.
A good read, which had its steamy parts, as well as its comedy.
Sophie and Amy Dempsey get a job filming a movie in Temptation. As they drive into town they get in a car accident and that starts rumors that the ladies are in town to make a porno. (Obviously Temptation is suffering from Small-town-idis.) The town gets up in arms and goes to the hunky Mayor Phin Tucker to pass an anti-porn law. Of course he has to investigate....I really like the Jennifer Crusie books and would recommend them to any friend who likes a romance novel.
Funny and passionate and foul mouthed. Just what a girl wants on a muggy summer day.

Sophie is an uptight little twat, Phin is a cardboard cutout of a Ken doll, Amy is selfish and awful, Clea is a lying slut, Liz is a greedy snob, Stephen is a power-hungry Nazi, Virginia is a fuckin' nutbag, Rachel is a boring doormat, Zane in a shady used car salesman caricature, Georgia is a jealous psycho, Frank is a clueless cuckold, and Rob is an actual Ken doll.
Oh, and Wes. He's basically the little angel on Phin's shoulder when it comes to whether or not Phin should debauche Sophie.What is even the point of this story?
That however, is not enough to make me recommend this book.
I am not critical by nature, (see my other reviews), but I do like to "call a spade a spade"!
This is a story about the town of Temptation, it's citizens, and a family who comes to film a "movie".
Phin is the mayor and Sophie is the traveling film maker.
This is a cardinal sin for a "romance junkie" like myself, and I cannot recommend this book to readers who love romance.
For those who like a "naughty" read..this might do the trick.
WHAT JUST HAPPENED HERE, this was so much fun! (and just the kind of thing I needed after a day's worth of lugging case files around because clearly a witty romance novel is as exciting as it gets in joannaland.)
I take very good care of me, and I always get what I want.- SophieTry to regain your sanity before I come home.- PhinI don’t want interesting.
Just pleasure.- PhinThe ones that look harmless are the ones that take you by surprise.- PhinAnd someday you’ll drop dead and I’ll come to your funeral in a red dress.- SophieYou know, women don’t find arrogance all that attractive When you first came in for breakfast, when I first saw you, I thought you were handsome.
Then, of course, you spoke.- SophieDid you ever one day look up and realize you’d been staring at the ground when there was a whole sky on top of you?
