https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/269602.The_Picture_Bible
A great bible for boys. My eight year old read this over the course of a month or so each night before he went to bed. It is a comic book-style bible but it is not cartoonish at all and it is very solidly written, though it is not Catholic. John Paul learned very much about the Old Testament, especially, from reading this bible. Good choice for active boys!!
The first was the Beginners Bible, but by age 6 I had read all of it, so I wanted a new one.
At Christmas, My parents surprised me with the Picture Bible.
This Bible is one of the greatest ways to get a young one to read God's word.
It has LOTS of action, dramatic drawings, and little articles in between chapters that let your young one learn a little extra that most kids Bibles may not explain.
If you want your kid to have a deep understanding of the Bible, this is a great place to start.
Even though this graphic novel version of the bible was meant for kids, I loved it all the same. My mind tends to wander while I attempt to read the King James Version, so this was a fun alternative for me. It goes in depth in all the stories, tells them in modern dialect, and has amazing illustrations!
I finally read the bible, cover-to-cover. 1970s comic book version of the bible, 800 pages of cheezy goodness. I bought this while doing an alternative spring break after Hurricane Katrina. Started reading it the day I moved into my seminary apartment, before classes even began. And now, two and a half years later, I have finished it.
This book is not just for kids, if you're a visual learner like me this bible helps a ton. It's good way to remember all those little facts and stories and the order of them and the pages just look cool.
André Le Blanc should be commended for bringing the characters alive with his art, which was beautifully rendered and very vibrant.Although the target audience is for young children, boys in particular, I found myself loving it just as much.
It's also a great stepping stone or jumping off point into making children want to read The Bible.All in all, I really enjoyed reading The Picture Bible – it was an ambitious project trying to illustrate the entire Bible and to bring it to life and I think that it was a great success!
So pleased to have read a version of the bible that I can mostly understand.
I feel as though I’ve watched the movie and now I will be able to read the actual bible and understand so much more about why and where and when it was written.
A great achievement from both authors, writer and illustrator; to fashion the stories into vivid tales using clever segues of script and inserting facts about the time as well as giving each major character notable features of dress and a lot more besides.
I was absolutely gripped and very interested to see how much the Old Testament was like Game of Thrones!
As a young boy, this comic-book version of the Bible was my favorite, and I still have my copy. The book is heavy on the Old Testament stories, which do indeed work better for a dramatic, illustrated work. David and Goliath, Daniel and the Lion's Den, Samson, Moses, Joshua, Joseph, Adam & Eve - they're all here, illustrated. It's a lot of fun to read, and as a kid, it helped bring these stories to life.
The Bible narrative is told with pictures that should appeal to readers. I appreciated the condensed method of a single version of the history. I really enjoyed this end of the year read of the Bible.
no
I can't say how many times I read this through as a child.
I remember being introduced to it through weekly snippets that were part of our Sunday School papers we'd get every week at church, called Pix. This really made the Bible come alive to me in a visual way that made me excited to read it at a time in my life when wading through the plain text was difficult.
It is quite faithful to scripture and the illustrations are not cartoonish in the least, rather they follow a more classical-style (think Hal Foster's Prince Valiant).
Age Range: 4 - 8This is the Bible as a graphic novel, with text and drawings done in a comic-book style.
The retellings are done in a story-friendly format to make them understandable, and include a reference to the Biblical scripture they are told from.
It would be a good family activity to read the text from the Bible and compare it to “The Picture Bible” retelling to see what has been added to.
The people pictured are mostly pale-skinned.
My dad gave me this book a few years ago, it had been given to him as a little kid by his godparents.
I would definitely recommend this book to anyone because it makes the bible stories so interesting and easy to understand for young kids or adults because it isn't cheesy or preachy or anything either.
I thought it was a fantastic idea to put all the bible stories into comic form, and although it might seem a little daunting being so thick, it is easy and interesting to read and anyone should be able to finish it within at most a week.
6 starsthis is one of the books that made the Bible understandable to me.
moreso than Narnia or Calvin Miller's Singer trilogy or Thomas Merton this is the book that Showed me what the Bible looks like.when my Mom went through BSF this was what she used along w/Miss Johnson's notes and the Bible.i've read or tried to read and use a half dozen of the comic book Bibles in print.
this is the only one that holds up.
anyone older than five can read and learn from it and unlike the others an adult can still use and learn from it.
I read this Bible growing up and loved it, and now I have read it once to my younger brother, and we are beginning our second reading. The illustrations are incredible, and the comic presentation is great. The right amount of information is included, so as to further educate past a beginners' Bible but not be too in-depth or over young readers' heads. I only give this four stars because it is not a Catholic Bible, and so the narration in the Last Supper misses the mark (and there may have been one or a couple other discrepancies).
In 1980, I bought The Picture Bible to read to the children for pre-bedtime stories. Going thru my colletion of old books I saved to read in the future, I came across The Picture Bible. The illustrations are good. Easy for children to identify the characters throughout as they wear the same color clothing. (Made me wonder when they ever wash or mended their robes.) A quick read and mini review of the Bible (think Cliff's Notes). A refresher course without the deep thinking. (Pairs well with hot chocolate on those snowy days when you don't have to go out.)
I have to say that I loved this bible as a kid, and I even love it today. You can tell I've put it through a lot, cause it's missing the front cover and the first page is nearly ripped off. I don't know if I would have been as interested in reading a "normal" bible if I was a kid, so this is a great way to learn the stories the bible tells, while keeping kids interested and excited. I would recommend it to all parents wanting to educate their kids on bible stories.
It was very cool. I'd always wanted to read and understand the bible stories but they always seemed so complicated. When I first found out about this book I thought it was a nice idea to visualize it and put it down in comic book form. The pictures are amazing.The only two things that bother me is how all the "bad" or "violent" scenes are all skipped. There too much writing at the top of the boxes and less action. :(SPOILER ALERT!!! Paul dies at the end of the book.
when i was a kid in sunday school, we used to get these little comics after the class every week. i thought they were fun and taught the Scriptures without being preachy. little did i know there was an entire Bible made like this. finally found one and finished it last night. it's a nice, uncomplicated way of enjoying my favorite Biblical stories since it cuts through all the unnecessary stuff and just presents the stories themselves.
I found an old copy I had of this in a box with a couple other religious gifts I've received over the years (from my baptism, communion, etc) and I decided to reread it. I forgot how awesome bible stories are. Wow. However, the artwork gets rather sloppy at times which can be frustrating for someone who obsesses over details.
I loved, loved, loved this Bible when I was growing up. I was given it as a graduation gift when I left kindergarten at age five...and it was a favorite of mine for years. Although I must say mine was way more cool, with a denim cover, than the editions that are out now.
This is one of my favorite books for children. I read this graphic novel version of the Bible cover to cover many, many times throughout my childhood and once or twice as an adult. I highly recommend this.
This has been redone and I really think its a lovely addition to look at and read. The drawings are great and the moments in the biblical stories are sweet and powerful. I love the added dialog, accompanied by the bible verses.
I am surprised how much Daniel enjoys reading this Bible. Written comic book style, it covers an extensive amount of the bible in a format Daniel enjoys. We're getting alot of mileage out of this one.
A bible......?transformed into a comic book? WHAT!!! A fun way to read the bible.
It's like a graphic novel...for kids 5 and up
I'm pretty sure this is the one I had as a kid-- although I think the cover was different? I dunno. I loved that it was in comic book format. Ahahahaha.
My first bible. Although the faith didn't take, the stories have stayed with me, probably due to the compelling illustrations and comic-book-like narration.
This Holy Bible in comics form I have read when I was a child.I consider this a treasure among book treasures.The drawings are excellent, the stories are very beautiful.
Fantastically illustrated Bible for children ages 4-10. Read this over one year with my children and definitely grew closer to God personally!
