https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/837393.The_Travels_of_Babar
A tale of a benign elephant family wise to the point of sadness, reconciled to the humiliations of long life but gifted with a naive delight in travel--in the pranks, say, of their foreign host and friend, a monkey.
The infinite sadness of the elephants in their railway coach!
I read Babar too long ago to know if this is the particular book he's talking about.
If anyone thinks it was a different book, let me know.]
Royal pachyderm newlyweds Babar and Celeste set out on their honeymoon voyage in this sequel to Jean de Brunhoff's  The Story of Babar , finding that their balloon ride ends in disaster when a storm sends them crash-landing on an island inhabited by "fierce and savage cannibals." Escaping with the help of an obliging whale, the couple endure many more hardships, from being stranded together on a reef to being forced to perform in a circus, before being reunited with the Old Lady who aided Babar
Here, however, they discover that their travails are far from over, as a war with the rhinoceros nation has developed in their absence...As mentioned in my review of the first volume, the Babar books have garnered quite a bit of critical attention over the last few decades, with accusations of colonialist apologia/celebration coming from some (see the collection of essays, 
Should We Burn Babar?: Essays on Children's Literature and the Power of Stories
), and counter-claims of self-conscious colonialist parody coming from others (see the essay, Freeing the Elephants: What Babar Brought, published in The New Yorker magazine).
Boy, think there's some cognitive dissonance reading these Babar books now vs when I read them as a youngun.
I'm reading them now to a four-year old and I find myself breaking away to try and explain certain things to him.
Some of these things are problematic and has my little tyke asking questions: killing of Babars' mom in the first book; subsequent capture; the black cannibal savages and so on and so on.
But, I'll be there to answer any questions he will undoubtably have.

The delight I once felt in the characters and situations comes to me now in echoes, memories of the ways the stories used to affect me, tempered now by an adult faculty for critical thought.
So, I thought, we will enjoy the fantasy of Babar for now and discuss the troubling aspects of the narrative at a later age, when they are able to understand.During our most recent trip to our public library I crouched among the shelves selecting books while my twins played with puzzles and shyly encountered other library-going youngsters.
“A Wild, Wacky Honeymoon Trip” When the young elephant king, Babar, takes off in a hot-air balloon with his sweet bride, Celeste, he has no idea that they have been launched on a series of mishaps and dangers—more than enough to make an unforgettable honeymoon (for man or elephant!) Since this is not the debut Babar story, it helps to understand that he was originally befriended among Human society by a kindly and sympathetic Old Lady, who reappears here.
How will the Old Lady help the honeymooners return home in time to prevent war?
After escaping the cannibals, they are rescued by a whale who swims them his back.
When the whales stops to feed on a school of fish, he leaves them on a sand barge in the middle of the ocean.
They are then forced to entertain in a circus, until they run away and visit the old woman in the city (Babar's friend).
She travels with them by plane back to their jungle home and there they find that the rhinoceroses and elephants have gone to war.
Babar gathers the elephants to devise a plan for scaring the rhinoceroses away and the old lady stays with the elephants.
I remember loving this book as a kid.
Who doesn't love a traveling elephant? I happened upon this book as a loaner from the common area at a vacation rental, and I enjoyed revisiting a childhood favorite character. Very enjoyable.
My child picked this from the library. We got about five pages in, and OH HEY, SUPER RACIST CARICATURES OF AFRICAN PEOPLE hoooooooooly shit. No one thought to, you know, DROP THE RACISM in the reprints? Christ. Although reading the description of the book, I note that OF COURSE the black people are cannibals. OF COURSE. JESUS FUCKING CHRIST THIS IS RACIST.No, we did not continue reading. Instead we had a toddler-level discussion about racism and why it's wrong. I'm also going to have a word with the children's librarians when we return to the library.
Ages: 5 - 9**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website!
I loved this book series and it's anthropomorphic characters and sweet illustrations as a child.
On their honeymoon, Babar and Celeste crash-land in a strange country.
"We are not so badly off on this island," King Babar muses.
Further adventures include an absent-minded whale, a fabulously-clad circus trainer with a Snidley Whiplash moustache and, finally, the old woman Babar met after being orphaned in the first book.
Meanwhile, Babar's Behaviorally-Disturbed child Arthur plays a nasty prank on a sleeping Rhino, initiating a war.
Babar luckily utilizes psychological warfare to frighten off the Rhino hordes and restores peace to his African kingdom.
When Babar, that well dressed king of the elephants and his new bride, Celeste take a balloon trip f
Okay, this book was perfectly fine except there was a part at the beginning I did not like. Babar and Celeste get attacked by cannibal savages, who are depicted as jet black with red lips. Okaaaay....I am quite sure I read this book in my youth as I remember the end where the elephants dress as monsters to scare the rhinoceroses. That is all I remember, though. Obviously the cannibal scene did not leave an impression. I am just never a big fan of Babar. I like him more in theory than reality.
Celeste and Babar go on their honeymoon and are marooned when their hot air balloon fails.
They end up on an island and are attacked by cannibal savages.
They then end up leaving the island on a whale who abandons them on a reef, where they are then picked up by a ship and then end up as part of a circus.
They escape the circus and end up with the lady who had helped Babar in his earlier adventure.
They return to the elephant kingdom where Babar helps end the war against the rhinos.
The illustrations are nice.
Wow. I read this book to my son (who luckily is still too young to understand) and was shocked by the overt racism. Encountering "savage cannibals" drawn with dark brown skin and big red circular mouths, Babar and Celeste escape by the skin of their teeth. I understand this book is a product of its time (published in the 30's), but definitely not something I would consider appropriate for parents who are seeking to foster tolerance and acceptance in their children.
Two elephants go on a honeymoon in a hot air balloon, are marooned on an island with cannibals, forgotten on a coral reef by Mrs. Whale, held captive by a ships captain, forced to perform in a circus...all leading up to a return to a elephant kingdom at war with the rhinosaurusi. Really? I ask myself why this is a classic. I don't have an answer.
Wow, so much I didn't pick up on when I read Babar as a kid. Racism, sexism, elitism, militarism (even with the fig leaf of animals being "wounded" rather than killed, and victory by stratagem). And most disturbing, somehow, Babar's thoughtlessly making a "gift" of animals to a human pal, even after having experienced the indignity of being "donated" to the circus himself.
I never read Babar as a child, so I'm taking an exclusively adult perspective to this review. As much as Babar and Celeste are charming, the real world has changed for the better. I can see how lovely this book would have been for its audience when written, but nowadays I think it's an important learning tool for how far we as a society have come, and how far we still have to go.
I'm pretty sure I had this book as a child and read it numerous times. It may be my favorite of the Babar books by the elder de Brunhoff; it's got a lively plot, vivid illustrations, and even manages an anti-war message that isn't overbearing.
Read this a couple of months ago for the first time since childhood. I'm sure for a child, the adventures are quite fun, but as an adult, the book is over-whelming in its racial stereotypes. I'll try to keep in mind the period in which it was written.
Babar the noble ruler returns with more adventures. For some reason, I have always found these clothed elephants noble and engaging.
It definitely feels like a book written in 1934.
Another great Babar book. I love this goddamn elephant!
I never read any Babar growing up and decided to check out this book before reading it...so horribly offensive.
The story continues with many adventures charmingly told.
a childhood favorite, which I read to my own children, in hoped that they will read to their children
My girls loved this book, I think because of the adventure. I found the cannibals a little upsetting for me as adult.
Second in the Babar series and also remembered from Best in Children's Books. There is something sublime about the simplicity and imagination of these stories.
