https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7968243-cleopatra
It was Antony's only way to die on his terms and Cleopatra's last hope of saving her country.Despite the distance I say this book creates between the reader and Cleopatra, it does an excellent job of forming a more accurate image of her in your mind's eye.
And then you'll want to read it again to be sure you picked up all of the historical tidbits you may have missed.If you want a good piece of fiction to follow this book with, you should pick up Cleopatra's Daughter by Michelle Moran.
For example, in Chapter II she goes on and on about Cleopatra's education, including details about her oral reading, her rhetorical skills, etc., for at least 6 pages then, finally, she cites Plutarch for her end-point educational achievements (most of which have been given over and over in other work about Cleopatra).I appreciated the author's judgments about the difficulties of a Greek speaker learning Egyptian of that era, demotic and formal, compared with the difficulties of an Egyptian speaker learning Greek.
I'm going to give the author another chapter and if it doesn't improve, I'll put it aside for other sources.Addition August 2011: I have read more parts of the book now and still have the same reactions.
Turning to back Marc Antony, Cleopatra and all of Egypt held their collective breath as the Roman Civil War grew in fervour, pitting Antony against Gaius Julius Caesar Octavianus (later known as Augustus).
A biography thick with information, nuances, and powerful symbolism, Schiff is sure to impress any reader to dares take the time to investigate the life and times of this most famous Egyptian ruler.This is my second Schiff biography, which seeks to shed light on powerful and controversial women in history.
Misnomers pepper the historical record, making the discovery of a true story all the more difficult, though Schiff does a formidable job in collecting a thread by which the reader can follow events somewhat fluidly.
If you want to read 300 pages about how awesome Queen Cleo was, then this is the book for you!I remembered little about the famous Egyptian ruler from world history class in high school, and I don't think the Elizabeth Taylor movie counts as a documentary, so Schiff's book felt like my introduction to Cleopatra.
Schiff's opinions were generally about how smart and shrewd Cleopatra was, and how she could orchestrate events to her liking or how she could manipulate political figures (mostly).My complaint about the book was how dense it could be; Schiff sometimes got bogged down in too many trivial details that slowed down the narrative.
Stacy Schiff's Cleopatra: A Life is speculative, borderline revisionist history.
For all that, Schiff offers sound speculation.
After all, history is written by the victors and in the end Cleopatra was written about by those Romans who were victorious over her.
What saves Schiff's work from utter sycophancy is that she always lets the reader know that she is offering up alternative possibilities to what may or may not have happened.
It's a tall order writing about a woman 2000 years dead, about whom little is truly known even though she's arguably the most famous woman in history.
Perhaps of all the historic characters we think we know, but don’t, Cleopatra ranks at the top of the list.
Sometimes a legend is so well-known that we lose track of the fact that a real human being was living this story, fighting these battles, and harboring these emotions.
Everything we know of her comes to us from other sources.
The holes in the story keep us under her spell.” She bewitches us from beyond the grave perhaps because we know so little about her personally and that gives us a blank slate on which we can write our own version of Cleopatra.
So, I was delighted to find that even the very first line drew me in with a skill rivaling the best in fiction, and her knack for weaving a story out of the hard research and history lost—rather than numbing the reader’s mind with dull and tiresome fact after fact—kept me reading, and hooked.“Among the most famous women to have lived, Cleopatra VII ruled Egypt for twenty-two years.
http://freshofftheshelf.blogspot.com/...The number one thing that I learned from Cleopatra: A Life was this: I had deceived myself in thinking I knew anything about her before reading this book.
As much as one third of Egypt was controlled by female hands.There are many other things that stick out to me about Cleopatra's life.
However, her contemporaries, those who actually knew and saw her, say nothing about her beauty.
In fact, her appearance was called "not remarkable." Quite different from what most of us have heard about her!Stacy Schiff wrote an extremely entertaining book full of fun, interesting facts.
What I learned from this book (in no particular order): 1. Cleo was an insatiable vamp who seduced two of the most powerful men in Rome using her feminine wiles. Cleo might have used her wiles to seduce them, but both Julius and Mark were hardly paragons of chastity themselves: Julius specialized in seducing “aristocratic wives”, while Mark had numerous affairs with both single and married women.2. Cleo looked like Elizabeth Taylor with too much mascara. We just don’t really know how she looked.
5.	Cleo was an incestuous queen who murdered her siblings to gain the throne of Egypt.
It’s true that the Ptolemies threw the best parties in the ancient world (at one particular feast, the gold dinner vessels alone were said to have weighed 300 tons), but Cleo was also one of the richest ruler on earth, so she could well afforded them.
If your agenda is to remove 2,000 years of sexist and/or orientalist distortions from Cleopatra’s portrait, which account are you going to accept as reliable and which are not?
"When Egypt Ruled the East" by George Steindorff this book is not.I have read many books on Egyptian history all the way up through the Ptolemies who, somehow, through some sort of rhetorical magic, were made to be as dry and dull as dead leaves in winter in "Cleopatra: A Life." I have read many history books.
I cannot tell if Stacy Schiff was covering for being far more interested in the Romans than the Egyptians, or simply having more knowledge of the Romans, or just seriously not liking the Latin language or what, but this book is so padded with passive tense that I cannot be certain that she is speaking authoritatively on anything.
I picked Stacy Schiff's Cleopatra: A Life biography off the library's new releases shelf because 1) I recently realized that I hadn't read a biography since Plutarch's Greek Lives, maybe a decade ago and 2) the latest National Geographic had a cool article on the subject.
Cleopatra: A Life was strong, full of detail and suspense, but evidenced some of what keeps me away from biographies in the first place.I get the sense biography, like all writing, I suppose, is about choices.
I liked Cleopatra: A Life and feel better for reading the book.
The last quarter of the book dedicated to Rome's war on Egypt and Cleopatra's eventual suicide is taut storytelling, not just "classicism for amateurs."Here's one of my favorite passages from the book, about a fishing trip that Cleopatra and Antony took during a time of relative peace and prosperity in their lives.
Appian has Antony exclusively in the company of Cleopatra, “to whom his sojourn in Alexandria was wholly devoted.” He sees in her a poor influence.
Antony “was often disarmed by Cleopatra, subdued by her spells, and persuaded to drop from his hands great undertakings and necessary campaigns, only to roam about and play with her on the sea-shores.” More likely the opposite was true.
Reading the introduction I realize what a monumental project writing a biography of Cleopatra must have been for Schiff.
Sources are questionable and rare, many dating hundreds of years after the events occurred.
With the help of Julius Caesar, at the age of 21 Cleopatra won both her throne and her citizens back.
After Caesar's demise, Cleopatra casts her wiles in the direction of his cousin, Marc Antony, a renowned commander and philanderer with a penchant for drink.
Cleopatra's reputation as a wanton and sexual manipulator comes down to us from writing hundreds of years after her demise.

She nonetheless survives as a wanton temptress, not the last time a genuinely powerful woman has been transmuted into a shamelessly seductive one." Schiff alludes repeatedly, and justifiably, to the fact that "the double standard" has heavily colored history's view of Cleopatra: "As incandescent as was her personality, Cleopatra was every bit Caesar's equal as a coolheaded, clear-eyed pragmatist, though what passed on his part as strategy would be remembered on hers as manipulation."From what Schiff says at the outset, it is clear that writing a biography of Cleopatra VII of Egypt is no mean feat, as it appears that the Cleopatra we think we know today is comprised of about nine-tenths myth ("...
Her style used strange placements of the basic sentence elements (I much prefer subject, verb, object order), a plethora of semi-colons and dashes, odd adverbs (use of “as well” and “too” when “also” would have been more appropriate), and multiple short sentences following each other when proper connectors would have greatly improved the flow.
The bottom line is that I didn’t think she did a good job of putting together and telling the story.As to the content of the book, it appeared that the author had done a good job of researching her subject and the times.
I labelled this one as "feministy," because I don't think that Stacy Schiff could deny her "let's re-examine Cleopatra's ACTUAL awesomeness as opposed to this hyper-sexualized harpy-witch-seductress-harlot nonsense" angle.
I don't want to thumb through the epic notes section in the back, I want to know NOW" (to be clear, I read all the notes, and found them quite worthwhile, it just involved a lot of page turning).
Schiff is also blessed with an eye for detail, combined with an ability not to get so enamored with all the jewel-encrusted whatevers in Cleopatra's history that she forgot to tell a good story.
While narrating the pieces of her life we can put together from sources outside Ptolemaic Egypt and making inferences from more well-documented lives of pharoahs (and women) in Alexandria to provide context and supplement the guesswork, Schiff engages in fantastic detective work while providing a sort of meta-analysis of the divergent sources on Cleopatra's life - examining motive, politics, historical context and sociocultural factors that are illuminating and insightful.
Schiff makes it her primary focus to shed light on what we do know of an Alexandrian upbringing in the Ptolemy family, what the sources say about her carriage and demeanor, her education, her political acumen in retaining power and expanding the influence of the Ptolemaic dynasty, and the wisdom with which she ruled her people.
It's amazing what a rich portrait Schiff created when we have so few sources to draw from about Cleopatra's life.
He was the man on the ground, the representative of the Roman Empire who was going to decide who reigned in Egypt, Cleopatra or her brother.
Schiff doesn't report any credible evidence that Cleopatra pined for him, she got on with the business of ruling her country.
I'd have been pissed, too.One of the fun things about a book like this is indulging in "what if." When everyone and his brother was deserting Antony (deservedly so, what a wretched general, this was a guy who had only one good battle in him), what if Cleopatra had deserted, too, what if she had reached out to Octavian?
Like everyone with even a passing interest in history… I thought I knew a little bit about Cleopatra, but Stacy Schiff's Biography quickly disabused me of that notion!
It turned out that like most people, I had taken the oft repeated myths of thousands of years for fact.
I was very embarrassed to find out that I had placed both she and Cesar about 1250 years in time before they actually lived!
I'd recommend this book to anyone who thinks they have a handle on basic classical history, because trust me, you might be surprised!
Hopefully you know more than I did when I started this book.
Cleopatra was a beautiful seductress who loved and manipulated two great men, Julius Caesar and Mark Antony.
So much of the accounts of Cleopatra's life were written by Roman (and other) philosophers who often did not have good opinions of her either.I learned things in this book that I previously did not know.
I also did not know that the daughter, Cleopatra Selene, would go on to be a queen in Africa...pretty much following in her mother's footsteps in her rule there.This is an excellent book for people who enjoy non-fiction and for people who would like to learn more truth behind the legend.
3 STARS"Though her life spanned fewer than forty years, it reshaped the contours of the ancient world.
She was married twice, each time to a brother.
They happen, however, to have been Julius Caesar and Mark Antony, among the most prominent Romans of the day.
Both were married to other women.
Cleopatra had a child with Caesar and--after his murder--three more with his protégé.
The two would together attempt to forge a new empire, in an alliance that spelled their ends.
Cleopatra has lodged herself in our imaginations ever since." (From Amazon)A great new look at Cleopatra's life - taking out the myth from the legend.

As the feminist theologian Elisabeth Schüssler Fiorenza points out, the androcentric language of the Biblical texts obscures the contributions of women, and “mentions women only when women’s behavior presents a problem or when women are exceptional individuals.” To the Roman authors who chronicled her life, Cleopatra was both.
It is up to Stacy Schiff to exercise a hermeneutics of suspicion in her exceptional new biography of the ancient Egyptian queen, Cleopatra.
Whether interpreting the biblical canon or the political history of Rome, it is not possible to discard or disregard the ancient texts; they are often the only evidence we have of critical events.
It's funny how when we think of Ancient Egypt we jump to the Pharaohs.
Inadvertently, we focus on the female Pharaohs who rules.
MerNeith, Nefertiti, Hatshepsut, and Cleopatra are names that come immediately to the mind, for they set a standard of female rulers in a male dominated world.
Growing up, I've only read one book on Cleopatra and it was one that was aimed for children so my knowledge about her was very limited.
Most of what I knew about Cleopatra came from modern day interpretations.
All I knew was that she was that ruler of Egypt and that her reputation has been tarnished by future generations.
It’s a very interesting book. I would say that Schiff's approach to Cleopatra was not only feminist, but also, and possibly foremost, critical. She did not take historians' accounts on their face value; she vigilantly evaluated everything they said, and provided her own commentary. Her images of Cleopatra, Cesar and Mark Anthony are fascinating, and the portrayal of Egyptian, Roman and Middle Eastern society quite eye opening.4.5/5
This one took longer than I'd planned, but I had a handful of days where the audiobook wasn't my priority.
However, this was fascinating because I've never really read up on Cleopatra before.
I knew about Cleopatra & Mark Antony because who doesn't, and then Octavian/Caesar and what happened to her kids (or at least her daughter) thanks to a Michelle Moran histfic I read a few years ago, but this book really opened up everything Cleopatra accomplished as a leader beyond the things she's remembered in history for.
Looking forward to another Stacy Schiff book!
The author clearly loved her subject--but the combination of a serious lack of hard evidence and a writing style I found pretentious significantly diminished my enjoyment of this book.
While some of this is the result of a lack of concrete historical evidence, the author might have been better served to convert her data into a more general study of the period, rather than attempting to provide insight on the workings of Cleopatra's mind with such limited evidence to back up her assertions.
What Schiff is trying to do with this book is examine what we know about Cleopatra, look at the rumors and stories, and try to sort out the fiction from the fact while at the same time trying to create a picture of Cleopatra as a person.
The descriptions of Alexandria at its prime and Rome before it was a world power are really good, and I liked the extra detail.For the most part, I felt that the book succeeded as a historical study.
Schiff did a very good job presenting Cleopatra as a person, and at the very least I walked away from this book with a clear picture of who Cleopatra was as a ruler.
