https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1235448.The_Bandit_of_Hell_s_Bend
So in this novel, he was following the axiomatic advice for authors, "Write about what you know;" his main weakness in much of his work, his disdain for research, is therefore largely moot here, while his main strengths --an ability to deliver adventurous plots and stirring depictions of action, creation of strong heroes who embody what are traditionally thought of as "masculine" virtues, moral clarity, and a masterful evocation of the theme of "primitivism" that can appeal to repressed and regimented readers-- are undiminished.
In The Bandit of Hell's Bend, one of his few westerns, the presumed hero is rarely the main point-of-view character and is quite mysterious.
Throughout the book, there is never any one character who carries the point of view, and that is extremely unusual for Burroughs.About halfway through the book, the story adopts a typical melodrama plot with several people trying to oust the young heroine from her ranch.
Adding to the melodrama is not knowing who the bandit is, the presumed hero, who is a non-hero, or the handsome dude, or someone else, but all the circumstantial evidence points straight at the non-hero.
When he wanted to take a break from Tarzan and Barsoom, ERB would occasionally try a Western.
The theme is the classic one of stuffed shirt Easterners vs.
Robust Westerners (a theme that I daresay underlies much if not most of ERB’s fiction).
The foreman of the Slash Y ranch is Bull, a laconic and steady cowpoke in the traditional mode.
The dashing young cowpoke Colby seems to be the kind of vigorous man to save the ranch as outlaws and Apaches besiege it.
Waiting in the wings to take over the Slash Y are a bumptious Yankee industrialist and Diana’s Eastern relations.http://fireandsword.blogspot.com/2009...
ERB was not as good a western writer as Louis L'Amour, but his traditional westerns, like this one, are fun reading. You know there's going to be adventure.
I'm going to sound back-ass-ward here, but I have previously tried to read examples of the author's Tarzan stories and his John Carter series.
I made it through neither book.This book however, I found to be quite a page-turner.
Much is said, both in academic reviews online and in the introduction/forward to the volumne I read, about Burroughs' first-hand knowledge of frontier life in the American Southwest of the 1880s and 1890s, but this came over as pure glorious pulp.There's lots of misunderstandings, fiery women, taciturn men, tough hombres and Eastern dandies.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book. It was not my first Edgar Rice Burroughs book, but my first 'western' and I finished it in one morning. In this story you'll find tenderness in the most unexpected places, covert gentleness in the most unlikely characters, loyalty and enough humor to keep you giggling at regular intervals. At least, that was my experience.
It's shore a durn gum good read.Seriously, it's folksy and predictable, but it's also pretty fun.
Have not read a western in a long time, always have happy endings...
Oh I couldn't get enough of this book!
Completely human but all the more liked because of it.
Bull, the ex-foreman.
Staunch, stoic, and completely unreadable.
Colby, good looking, dashing, nervy and by the end of the book...
I'm not going to give a spoiler away without a warning, *******SPOILER ALERT I completely hated and loathed him.
Didn't like him from the first chapter when he gained the foreman's position by dishonest means.******* And there's many more but I won't try your patience.:) If you like classic westerns after the style of William McLeod Raine, slightly like Zane Grey, you'll love this one.

Loved it
I like western fiction and I like Edgar Rice Burroughs.....but this one doesn't rank anymore than 2 stars. If it was about 200 pages instead of 280, I think it would have been great.....
Such an amazing country and western. I felt the old school grit and rawness of the characters. Would be an amazing movie!!
A cracking Western that I enjoyed from start to finish. Burroughs's clear, vivid style keeps the pace up and brings to life a host of characters and evokes landscapes and settings with apparent ease. Social mores have changed - you wouldn't get away with the depiction of the Chinese cook these days - but what hasn't changed is the power of this cinematic, romantic adventure. It's also rather funny, which I didn't expect.Highly recommended. Give the genre a go!
ERB fans will enjoy it. The good guys are good, the bad guys are bad.
I don't think Burroughs writes a very good western.
W Bur
Brilliant! Witty! Funny! One of the best little reads of late... Quite a page-turner. I was laughing out loud at several places...
