https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/196951.The_Hat
My two year old has renamed this book, The Sock. This makes a fun read aloud for young children. You are given plenty of opportunities to read using various voices and also make familiar animal sounds found on a farm.
Adorable! Hedgie uses a stocking as a hat.
Little girl takes her woolen clothes out of storage and puts them on a clothesline to air out for the winter.
One of the pieces gets blown away and discovered by a curious hedgehog.
The other animals tease him, but he wears it so proudly that once the little girl catches up to him and takes it back that she now has to chase down the rest of her wardrobe on other farm animals.
The drawings are beautiful.
It is just a playful romp that children will enjoy again and again as they discover new things in each drawing.
"THOSE FOOLS WILL TASTE MY REVENGE FOR THEIR INSOLENCE," thought the Hedgehog, probably.
Read this as a little kid...I think in 4th grade. Cute.
(Snapchat read aloud) We were joined by my stuffed hedgie wearing a hat.
This book is great! The story is very cute! And the illustrations are a great tool for helping young children learn comprehension skills as the pictures in the margins allow young children to guess what happens next. This is great for interactive reading! My preschooler and I really enjoyed reading this together!
One by one the woman loses her clothing set out to dry: the other stocking, a pair of gloves, a cap, a waistcoat, a sweater and a scarf.I liked this book because it reminded me of Sean and his friends.
Sean will take things he's learned at home and teach his friends and then everyone else is soon doing what he has been doing.
Or he'll come home having learned something from his friends.
Our two performers enjoyed sharing this book to pre-schoolers at library story time. One was the hedgehog and the other was all the other animals.Here's a link if you'd like a hedgehog paperdoll: http://janbrett.com/costumes_main_cho...Here's a link if you'd like to make a hedgehog hat: http://janbrett.com/hedgie_hat_projec...Here's a link if you'd like to print some hedgehog stickers:http://janbrett.com/hedgie_stickers.htmHere's a link to make a paper plate craft hedgehog:http://janbrett.com/the_mitten_projec...
My baby liked this book, being a fan of The Mitten. I thought it was very well done and I loved the pictures, of course, and all the fun details that Jan Brett adds. I wouldn't recommend the board book edition, though; it's too small and the animals are hard to see, especially for a baby.
I've always loved this book since I was a child, it's just adorable.
This is a really nice board book. The colors are a little muted but the illustrations are beautiful and very detailed. The story is a lot of fun and perfect for the winter season.
The Hat, by Jan Brett is an all time classic children's book.
You will see many of these characteristics in the book, The Hat. Hedgie the hedgehog is the main character throughout this story.
Another cool thing about Jan Brett is that some of her books go along with each other.
For example, Hedgie does not only appear to be the main character in The Hat. Jan Brett has written about Hedgie the Hedgehog is many of her other books.
There are many more lessons that go along with this book as well.
I remember watching the snow fall as a little girl and my mom reading this story to me.
This story is about a cute little hedgehog that got a stocking stuck on his head.
Before you know it the little girl in the story removes the stocking from his head but finds all the other animals have her winter clothes on!
I like how the hedgehog took a not so great situation in his eyes and turned it around by finding the positives.
It is a great children's winter read and recommend this book to anyone!
However, at the end of the book, all of the animals have taken the little girls clothing too because they have realized that the hedgehog was right all along.
This book portrays themes of individualism because the hedgehog stays true to his belief in the hat even when everyone else is making fun of him.
At first, I thought the book didn't really have a great message, but towards the end, when all of the animals are wearing clothes like the hedgehog, the book shows that staying true to yourself will pay off in the end.
By the end, Hedgie gets free from the hat but all the other animals are wearing clothes and all of the girl's clothes are gone from the clothes line.
The illustrations along the side of each page shows what the little girl Lisa is doing while the story is happening and reveals that the clothes line is slowly losing more items as Hedgie talks to each animal.
Jan Brett wrote this story with anthropomorphic elements by making the animals talk to each other and want to wear human clothes.
Hedgie ends up with a new “hat,” only to be ridiculed by the other animals.
Only when he is being chased by Lisa, do the other animals follow along in wearing her clothes and Hedgie gets the final say in telling them how ridiculous they all look.
The book evokes a chuckle, but also calls on the reader to think about how to treat others who have their own unique sense of style.
The work of Jan Brett, provides details that bring to life the journey of Hedgie.
Her illustrations bring the reader into the story and invite engagement in the journey.
This is one of the books I remember from my childhood. My mom really liked Jan Brett so I think we owned most of her picture books. The version I read recently was the board book version. I know sometimes that board books are shortened versions of the originals, but I couldn’t tell if this one was shortened are not. The story felt complete.As always Jan Brett has great illustrations and cute stories! This is a great story about trends and how silly they can be.See my full review at PerfectlyTolerable.com
The Hat which is common from The Mitten has a porcupine, Hedgie, who gets a hat stuck on it's head when it falls from the clothesline.
Other animals on the farm laughs at Hedgie when he pretends to be wearing a new hat but in reality, he can't get it off his spikes.
At the end of the story all the other animals have a piece of clothing from the clothesline and Hedgie gets the last laugh.
Children love this story especially after reading The Mitten.
Children can learn about the authors Scandinavian background.
This book is very well written and illustrated. Jan writes a really cute & whimsical story about a hedgehog who happens across a hat and uses it to keep warm. The story is so well written that when the other characters begin to make fun of him you feel upset. The preview of what is going to happen on the next page just adds that much more to the story. I would definitely recommend this story to all ages.
A hedgehogs accidental gets a woolen sock stuck on his head, much to the mirth of the farm yard animals. But he rebuts their teasing with the fact that he's preparing for a cold winter. They, one by one, dash off without a retort. Before he knows it, all the farm yard animals are wearing some sort of woolen clothing taken from the clothes line to prepare for winter.Illustrations (as usual) as fantastic. Love how Brett uses the margin art to add to the storytelling.
A cute story about how people will follow others without thinking. I liked the quick thinking of the hedgehog. I liked that there were little panes along with the hedgehog story showing what the little girl was doing at the same time. The ending picture looked like something you would see in an illustrated version of Animal Farm. A fun story.
Brett does a wonderful job illustrating literary devices throughout the book. This book is notable because of the devices used, as well as the curiosity that the hedgehog has. The hedgehog started a trend and others followed, and it can easily be compared to uniqueness and the differences each student in the class will have.
I read this book to a group of 2 year olds and they loved this book. They think it's hilarious that the hedgehog uses a sock as a hat. They also like seeing all the animals in the pictures. Because this book is a board book it's very durable for the kids who play with it.
Hedgie gets stuck in a hat that blew off the clothesline. All the other animal tell him that animals don't wear clothes. That is until.....One of my favorite Jan Brett picture books. A favorite too for my grandson.
The book is very great along with the illustrations. The pictures in the book allow students to learn how to comprehend the book when they are beginning to read on their own. This could also be a great read-aloud book.
Porcupine gets his head stuck in a stocking and tells all of his animal friends that it's his new hat to hide his embarrassment. When he is finally saved from the stocking, he finds that all of his friends who laughed at him are now trying to find their own hats.
loved the illustrations ....animals watch as Hedgehog ends up with a lost sock stuck on its head and calls it a hat, and they laugh, but maybe they like it....
Such a cute and fun book that students will love.
Her usual incredible art and a cute story.
