https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11768.The_Hotel_New_Hampshire
This novel isn't one of his "big three", but it's damn good.First off, most Irving novels have some general characteristics:- They typically have a Dickensian plot, in which you follow the characters through large portions of their lives.
- Irving writes of these lives through story telling.- He wants his readers to really get to know his characters.
- There are a number of common themes that run through his novels: New England, Vienna, bears, prostitution, absent parents, the death of main characters, wrestling, sexual deviances, to name a few...- Irving pushes the boundaries of ridiculousness.
The single father Bob (Coach Bob), his wife having died, giving birth to Win. The dedicated football coach at the prep school, in Dairy, New Hampshire, called unimaginatively, the Dairy School.
She attended Thompson Female Seminary, Win, ( the name he prefers) of course the Dairy School, both are employees, at the hotel, during the summer.
Win goes to Harvard, but first he buys the bear and the motorcycle, from "Freud", he unwisely, returns to his native Austria.
The animal act, with State O' Maine, Win calls the old bear Earl, is rather shall we say, not the best.
The Hotel New Hampshire is book five in my John Irving Challenge, wherein I am attempting to read all of John Irving's novels in under a year's time.
Secondly, I feel that abortion is a far better option than a child being raised by people who do not want it, or being raised in the system, or being raised in any other toxic environment.
Probably, but I feel it bears repeating.) So, other than it being illegal, is incest wrong if it is between two consenting adults who *shivers* want each other sexually?
Final Judgment: I can honestly say this is the best book with an incestuous relationship that I've read.
Thus we invent our lives.
We give ourselves a sainted mother, we make our father a hero; and someone's older brother, and someone's older sister - they become our heroes, too.
We invent what we love, and what we fear.
There is always a brave, lost brother - and a little lost sister, too.
And our dreams escape us almost as vividly as we can imagine them."I have started writing this review four, five times?
This novel broke my heart.
It is beautiful and lyrical and warm and funny and it broke my fucking heart, with each and every paragraph, every word.
I have noticed that those I dislike are ones he has written in the last 20 years.“The Hotel New Hampshire” has all the usual Irving characteristics; a story that takes place over many years, a sprawling cast list, some ridiculous plot contrivances, a little too much familial love for my tastes, a homoerotic fixation with male physiques and oddball characters.
As one character says of the details of daily life, “Thus we invent our lives”.“The Hotel New Hampshire” follows the Berry family from the initial meeting of the parents at a resort in Maine thru the middle age of the surviving offspring of the marriage that springs from that summer fling in Maine.
The Hotel New Hampshire: John Irving's Fairy Tale of Life "A dream is fulfillment of a wish."--The Interpretation of Dreams by Sigmund FreudOne of the benefits of having your favorite professor of psychology as your next door neighbor is learning that he is a very widely read man. We are an odd pair, I suppose. He is 76. I am 59. But through the years we have known one another we have become best friends. We frequently exchange books the other has not read.It is safe to say that Howard is fond o
The Hotel New Hampshire: John Irving's Fairy Tale of Life
Nor does it come as a surprise that the two fall in love over that wondrous summer.There is definitely a fairy tale quality to the courtship of Win Berry and Mary Bates, the daughter of a very scholarly family.
However, he returns safely, graduates from Harvard and takes a teaching position at Dairy, now a coed facility.The Berry children are Frank, Franny, John Harvard, Lilly, and the youngest,known as Egg. John, the middle child, narrates the novel in first person.
I was reminded of the selfishness of the reading enterprise as I made my way through John Irving’s The Hotel New Hampshire, more on which in a couple minutes.Here’s why it’s important to consider the solipsistic nature of reading, especially for the teachers in my audience.
We read what interests us – or, if we’re not sure if something interests us, we bring our own experience and knowledge to bear on the text in an effort to make meaning of it.And so it was for me with The Hotel New Hampshire.(As a side note, this is, of course, where the Common Core State Standards get reading completely wrong.
Irving is a great storyteller and novelist with characters that come to life in being all but flawless and also by taking views and actions that are unexpected, very much like in life. He also has a few strange interests, such as bears, wrestling and much more and a few of them are in evidence in this one as well. 'Hampshire' is good, but not one of his best, mostly due to it being quite the bumpy ride, parts are amazing and some parts are easily missed. I would start with another one of his.
Man kann somit jedes Hotel als eine Lebensstufe des Ich-Erzählers John sehen, der das mittlere der fünf Kinder ist.
Erst als mir der Zusammenhang mit dem Träumen bewusst wurde, gerade weil auch Siegmund Freud aus der Traumdeutung oft zitiert wird, habe ich meine Sichtweise geändert, habe das Buch eher als Märchen anstatt als Biografie gesehen und fand auf diese Weise auch wieder die Faszination am Buch zurück.
Ein Titel eines Queen-Songs, der für den Film geschrieben wurde (hab ich auch erst dadurch erfahren).Es hat mir auf jeden Fall sehr große Freude bereitet, die Familie Berry zu begleiten und ich werde sie vermissen.
This is one of my favorite books of all time, and is-for what it's worth-my favorite John Irving book in a world where everyone else picks The World According to Garp.
The story is about the travails (and boy, are there travails) of the Berry family of New Hampshire, in running the titular hotel and what follows (bears, Austria and wrestling are all involved, because John Irving.) Someone quoted, "Keep passing the open windows" to me the other day, and I almost cried because I love this book so freaking much and if you've read it, you get it.
Awesome book.
I had never read Irving before, and I have no idea why not.
Anyway, the story revolves around an unusual family growing up and learning about sex, sports, love, death, failure, success, etc etc.
It's quirky and funny and strange - Irving has a knack for finding little bits of truth in truly bizarre situations.Oh, and the main love story is between a brother and sister, so...yeah.My only complaint is that the ending is a little too neat, everything fits together a little too well.
The rest of the book is messy and bursting at the seams, so it doesn't quite fit.
Now the phrase “jumped the shark” is utilized for that point whenever anything goes absurd, turns sours, declines, takes a turn for the worse, or generally decreases in value.In Hotel New Hampshire, John Irving starts by writing a pretty affecting and darkly comic book about family and their commitment to each other.
Especially affecting is the story of the old Jewish performer and his love for his adopted Berry family.Still, there’s that major stumble exactly half-way through the book that makes me wince each and every time I think about it.
To describe the plotline of The Hotel New Hampshire to a questioning would-be reader is to realize that you’ve been enthralled with a plot that is, at its core, rather silly.
Circus bears and run-down hotels, plane crashes (so silly!) and midgets, botched taxidermy and obsessive weight-lifting – these are what Irving novels are made of.
The innocence of childhood is mixed with a healthy dose of sexual confusion, social angst, and slapstick comedy to engage the reader in the concerns of this young family as they grow and seek their fortune (or at least their subsistence) in the hotel industry.
I don't think John Irving will ever get five stars from me.
Telling stories is what writing novels is all about.
You never know if it is a plot-driven novel or character-driven novel because he seems to put equal effort into developing both his characters and his story.
Kudos for that.As a true story teller Irving often goes astray.
The real problem I have with Irving and the reason why probably will never get five stars from me is his really cheesy symbolism.
But Irving puts all that crazy sh!%$ in his books just so he can have his symbolism.
Never before I have been that enamored so soon when reading an Irving novel; typically, it takes a chapter or two until I warm up to the world he is building.
Incest is arguably the heart of this book; Irving handles the topic with love and care, but I know the subject is an unpleasant one for many readers — and the author does not shy away from it; Irving handles it with his typical deftness.
It’s John Irving; he certainly is not for everyone, but for his fans, in this hotel can be found familiar pleasures.
The spell Irving had woven over me wore off and the book started to grate; this one wore out its welcome in the first hundred pages.
I can't stand the precious little phrases the characters use constantly throughout the book (what?, open windows, 464, blah, blah, blah) and the motifs from the author's other works (bears, athletic obsession, lust, castration fear).
The work starts out in the town of Precious and moves on to Cloyington and then settles in Contrivedville.To me, this stuff is the bastard child of Dickens & Tom Robbins.
i went through a john irving phase, and i ODed about half-way through.
(140lb marriage is a terrible book, btw.
don't do it).but this is one of my favorite books.
it would be desert island number three, but it's a little too sad...
i don't think it would be a good idea to isolate myself with it on an island to read again and again for eternity.
that said, it's irving at his best.
it's sad, and even painful, so i often think about picking it up, but don't.
but everyone should read it at least once.
I recently came across a review of John Irving's work which claimed that only three of his novels are worth reading: A Prayer for Owen Meany, The Cider House Rules, and The World According to Garp.
The Hotel New Hampshire, the reviewer claimed, is pretty good, but too "odd" to be considered great.It is oddity that makes The Hotel New Hampshire worth reading (over and over).
I have read The Hotel New Hampshire at least 5 times, and have found that it improves with each reading.
But the depth and poignant accuracry with which Irving describes his characters' emotions as they live through a series of tragically bizarre events makes every moment feel one-hundred-percent true.

Jesus God, the Second Hotel, Vienna, the return of Freud--and that bear!In a way, The Hotel New Hampshire feels partly like a companion novel to The World According to Garp.
Whatever else happened to America and the world in the '50s and '60s doesn't matter--here comes the Berry Family!So even if the mirror The Hotel New Hampshire holds up to Garp is one of those crazy twisted funhouse mirrors, I still have fond feelings for it.
I learned never to read John Irving ever again. I'd like to give this even less than one star, if there were a way.
Well....let me first say that this family is probably, cray-cray even more than most.
It drained my life force the entire time I was reading it.
Not the first book with incest, I ever read, but certainly the most gratuitous and disturbing.
It was distasteful to say the least.
I felt badly for the black Lab, he got the worst treatment..
I dunno what people found endearing about this book, maybe I just didn't get it, and I'm glad I didn't.Irving you really tried my patience with this one, I shall steer clear of you for a very long time.
So far this is the weakest John Irving book I have read.
His books are always crazy and slightly unbelievable, but this is the first time I didn't believe.
Too many of the characters in this book die that I feel John Irving is just ticking them off, plus people don't die of fright as easily as they seem to in this book.
Does John Irving forget there is a west coast?
Or for that matter lots of places to go skiing that aren't all the way in Maine.For all my complaining I did like many parts of the book, my favorite by far was the middle of the book, the 2nd hotel new Hampshire when they are in Vienna that part is great.
Hotel New Hampshire is that book for me.
It makes me want to go back to any other book I rated with 5 stars and lower them down at least one - because surely they do not compare to this one.It's impossible to summarize Hotel New Hampshire and have it make sense to someone who has either not read it, or not read anything else by Irving.
I've re-read this book several times now, and with each reading I discover new layers of the story.Beyond this - it is difficult for me to make sense of what to write about this book to entice someone to read it - yet not give away any gems that one will discover upon reading it.
I felt little drive to ever pick him up again.Then, in the span of a week: I found enthusiastic reviews of Irving's work on Ask Metafilter, my other go-to book recommendation source (really, read their book recommendation posts, so good).
The Hotel New Hampshire." CREEPY.So thank you, little world of friends and Internet, for conspiring to get me to retry John Irving.
The Hotel New Hampshire reminds me, in the best way, of Middlesex.
And let me just say, Irving looks pretty normal and non-pervy in pictures, but this book is chock-full of uncomfortable sex in almost every way sex can be uncomfortable.
First line fever: The summer my father bought the bear, none of us was born - we weren't even conceived: not Frank, the oldest; not Fanny, the loudest; not me, the next; and not the youngest of us, Lilly and Egg.
Disappointment. The name was promising, the author was promising.. But it took me more than one week to read it :(
Some of his scenes feel like a violation, a rape of the reader and a deliberate attempt to degrade, to my mind anyway.Despite this author's amazing talent in writing I still thought some of the scenes were stupid, especially the "bear in heat" scene.
I felt Mr. Irving could have done better by her, but maybe he was making a point, "posing" her in imitations of another famous writer.What I liked best about the book was the dialogue and the characterization, and how imaginative Mr. Irving is.
He writes with an amazing sense of the absurd and this is what kept me reading.
But nearly two years have passed since I read this book and I still remember all of them: Frank, Franny, John, Lilly and Egg!
:-)Review 2016This was one of the most emotional and therefore beautiful books i’ve read so far.
While reading, i somehow felt everything they felt: I dreamed with Win, i had a strong will as Lily, i was confused as Frank, i cried for Egg, i hated Ernst and i loved Franny way to much…Although a lot of bad things happened, it was a very positive story.
I loved how the author focused on the strengths of the characters and saw the good in every protagonist.
"L'estate in cui mio padre comprò l'orso, nessuno di noi era ancora nato."Dopo aver letto “il mondo secondo Garp” ed esserne rimasta rapita, ho pensato - non senza un po' di tristezza - che nel leggere il successivo romanzo di Irving non avrei più provato le stesse intense emozioni.
E invece l'Hotel (dovrei dire gli hotels) mi ha letteralmente coinvolta.
Tutti i personaggi che compongono la numerosa e stramba famiglia Berry, e quelli che gli ruotano attorno, ognuno nel proprio ruolo, hanno lasciano un segno indelebile, come pure l'orso State o'Maine, l'orsa semi-umana Susie e il puzzolente cane Sorrow.
