https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1835405.When_Prophecy_Fails
I don't mind psychologists when they confine themselves to wondering why they themselves are crazy, but I do not abide them trying to make others feel discombobulated, which I think means confused.Marian Keech, a Michigan housewife, received a message from the planet Clarion that the earth would be destroyed in a great flood on December 21, 1954.
Then Marian receives another message informing her the god of earth has decided to call off the end of the world because the group did such a splendid job of spreading the light.
If anyone is going to experiment on people it should be them, not psychologists.
In Festinger's original study, "When Prophecy Fails", he discusses a cult who denies the continued failures of their prophecies that Jesus would return to earth on a flying saucer.The study is quite clinical in nature, and therefore a bit slow throughout - but when it comes to driving home the point of cognitive dissonance it does an excellent job.
The refusal to acknowledge the disappointment at Jesus' non-arrival (even in the midst of specific dates being passed by) and the world's continued existence gave rise to the term 'cognitive dissonance'.
But most importantly, the argument fails to address the most complicating of factors: madness, lies and truth may manifest in a social group without any single person being obviously responsible for any of them.
Whether the observations of the authors, who infiltrated the cult by posing as believers, bear out this conclusion is of secondary importance (although the argument is good that they do, so far as these things can be born out).
The real meat of this book is the fascinating insight it gives into group madness.
For those into this kind of thing, the book also provides insight into the connections between Theosophy, Dianetics/Scientology, the 1950's UFO phenomenon, and the New Age Movement which are also fascinating.
The observers were instructed to badger "Mrs. Keach", the leader of the cult, into firming up her very vague prophecies into an unequivocal prediction, so that Festinger could study the consequences of prophetic failure (at one point he alludes to the "awful possibility" that she might never make a sufficiently clear prophecy as to permit "disconfirmation").
A vital part of his theory demands that the disillusioned cultists enter into active proselytizing as a means of averting the stress of cognitive dissonance.
As for cognitive dissonance, it's an interesting and useful theory, but this book does not make a convincing case for it.
I mean let's work this out, we've got a cult of maybe a dozen people, six or seven of which are true believers (which is actually on the high side if you get right down to it).
This is especially true of the fifth mole who tried to join after the prophecy failed in order to gauge the resiliency of these people's beliefs.
So clearly the researchers responsible for this book are at least partly to blame for some of the members of the cult selling of all their earthly possessions, being made a mockery of in the press, and ultimately being mind screwed, because no matter how you slice it they influenced this group of people.
He was "in the hospital," visiting "his sick mother." As for work, well if your boss actually paid you what you were worth, you wouldn't need to steal from the register.You rationalize what just happened, which allows you to not only move on with your life, but paves the way for similar actions in the future, making it that much easier to cheat, lie, and steal the next time.Welcome to cognitive dissonance.
By being able to hold two thoughts in our minds that are mutually incompatible, we set ourselves up for mental disaster, and the only way out is to fool ourselves.In the mid 1950s, the authors of this book were looking into this phenomenon, especially as it applied to groups and millennialism – the belief that the world is rapidly in danger of ending.
The researchers and their graduate students document their undercover penetration of a Apocalypse cult in pitch-perfect, meticulous detail; the only problem is that they violate just about every principle of scientific inquiry and social psychological ethics in the process.
Despite its scientific shortcomings, the book is a fascinating and occasionally touching portrait of people who are desperately looking for self-validation in an impersonal world.
How does the cult deal with life when the world does not, in fact, end as expected?
Read to find out, but keep in mind that their conclusions have been largely discounted by subsequent researchers.
From there it describes a 1950's group expecting the world to end in a flood and that they would be rescued by a space ship.The text is not reader friendly.
No year is ever given and only towards the end when Minneapolis is mentioned can you guess where (are "Lake City" and "Collegetown" really the places?) this is taking place.While this is a respected study, it seems that observers couldn't help but contaminate the results.
Can observations from a small group holding such extreme beliefs be applied to the wider population?Members of this group behave as predicted by Festinger's theory.
Others, who lacked strong social support or remained isolated from other group members and had weaker beliefs to begin with, will simply come to see their faith dwindle until the give up completely.Both these people (the strong believers and the weaker believers) experienced cognitive dissonance when their belief that the world was going to end on December 21, 1955 coincided with the cold hard fact that the world did not indeed end on that day.
A very small cult/group is infiltrated by several participant observers.
Through the participant observers and the actions of the researchers themselves, the group seems to have been manipulated into becoming something other than what it wanted to be--something that suited the purposes of the researchers much better.
Festinger and company were looking for a group that exactly suited their hypothesis and therefore made this one do.
Additionally, the researchers seem so committed to their hypothesis that they minimize or discard any data that contradicts it, making me doubt the findings of this dubious study.
It comes from a time when the social sciences could get away with a lot of things that nowadays would be considered highly unethical -- many of the critiques of the book center on Festinger & co.'s covert infiltration of the Seekers, as well as the ways in which their doing so changed the dynamic of the group.
As a proof of its scientific theories, it's interesting, though much flawed.
And, for all his faults, Festinger writes clearly and is easy to follow, which isn't always the case with social sciences authors.A perfect study?
But a truly engrossing and interesting snapshot?
Published in the early 1950s this psychological study of 'dissonance' (look it up) straight from the coal face of people (the subjects) peddling busllshit at the expense of logic, rationality and sensitivity to the real world around them.
Only for these dates to pass, what follows is this great study in dissonance.
The study has its faults and these for the most part explained, as much as you can in this short text aimed at the psychological dilettante.
A very intriguing read.
Desperate for what they've dedicated their lives to to be real.The sociologists get the closest to proof they can for their intriguing theory that disconfirmation of a prophecy (a sincerely believed one) will cause an INCREASE in proselytizing rather than the decrease or abandoning of faith that might be expected...so long as the faithful remain in a circle of believers.The scale of the study is too small to really prove their point, but the portrait of the band proved one thing to me: there was no intentional charlatan among them taking advantage.
Review: Completely blown away by this incredibly insightful book, which must have been painstaking to compile.
Very engaging, and interesting account of a cult.
Festinger and his crew were very timely and opportunistic in finding a group that was specific about a prophecy that was sure to fail.
Succeeded in infiltrating and studying the cult, which proselytized selectively and infrequently before the prophesized date of the worldwide flood and rescue by aliens, but proselytized more than ever after prophecy failure.
Festinger and his crew predicted this behavior based on dissonance theory.
A landmark social study that reads at time like a Christopher Guest movie. The authors infiltrated a group of UFO believers to examine what would happen when their belief (that the world would end by flood on Dec. 21st) was disconfirmed. I find belief (just the idea of it) fascinating, which is what led me to pick up this book.
"Non è con l’evidenza dei fatti che si indeboliscono le credenze, perché i fatti necessitano di interpretazione e l’interpretazione è al servizio delle credenze e non della realtà." – Nicoletta Cavazza, Presentazione dell’edizione italiana, p. 22
The hypothesis was interesting and - I'm sure - true, but author's scientific methods are pretty suspect and compromise a lot of his findings. Still, it was an interesting insight into the psychology of belief and how things like religious faith work.
Liked it a lot.....,but i need to admit that i felt bad for the Group Members and how they convinced themselves after the failed date for the Apocalypse.
You can never know too much about this subject. Easy to see why it is a classic.
Detailed study of strange groupA bit long in the telling and more analysis might have been helpful. I learned some important things about how people hold unreasonable beliefs and why they become hard to back away from. The role of group support. Those who were alone when disconfirming events happened doubted but those in company accepted the group rationalization. Interesting stuff!!
I read this as research for my next novel in which I'm planning to write about an end of the world cult.
) that I was looking up end of the world cults and discovered this book.
The ultimate irony is that the people Festinger was writing about were predicting the end of the world on December 21st 1954 exactly 59 years to the day that the Mayan calendar apparently predicted the end of the world.
The tragic stories of people who managed to escape from ISIL or gangs echoes the same idea.Anyway, it's not really necessary to read the whole book to get the points - the illustrative examples are easily distilled down into the conclusions - the bigger the sacrifice, the bigger the belief commitment, and the more fellow believers are in social proximity, the more likely the believer is to stay a believer even after reality has stepped in.
The researchers observed a group expecting spacemen to pick them up before a predicted flood, to see how they'd react to being wrong.
Behaviourism predicted they'd abandon their beliefs, but history shows people doubling-down on their belief system after being proved wrong.
And although their theory of cognitive dissonance was broadly correct, further research doesn't back up their emphasis on proselytising as a key factor.However, it's a fascinating look at a bunch of very nice people who followed their beliefs as best they could, even if those beliefs were completely incorrect.
Being a psychology nerd, I picked this book up during the May 21st rapture scare at the suggestion of an NPR article I read one morning because I wanted to see what happens to people who have faith in something so strong, but are proven to be wrong.
When Prophecy Fails is the study which laid the foundation of one of the most important and groundbreaking theories in psychology -- Cognitive Dissonance Theory.The first half of the book was very interesting.
When Prophecy Fails is an interesting, if imperfect, look at cognitive dissonance in movements that experience disconfirmation of belief -- to put it another way, what happens when prophecies fail.
Still, even if I ended up more interested in the embedded observers' experience than the history of the cult, the book is a good case study; side by side with a book on Scientology I read recently, it provides a lot of insight into how profoundly individual choices and circumstances affect the course and success of religious movements.
One woman believed that she was being communicated with by spacemen through "automatic righting." The author enabled several observers to infiltrate the group so they would learn firsthand how the story unfolded, and what happens to their beliefs when the spacemen don't come and the flood doesn't happen.Although it is a very interesting read, it IS a documentary so it doesn't move at a quick pace - it tries to add a lot of detail, but not the depth of a scholarly work.
This is a very interesting book.For anyone who ever wonder how some people can possibly believe in those kooky end-of-world prophecies (as I had), this book does an excellent job explaining the thought process and the possible psychology behind it.
By the end of the book, I didn't feel as if I completely understood the concept of doomsday cults, but I definitely do understand better than before.The book can be dry and slow at times, but when it follows the group is when it gets interesting and the majority of the book does involve that.
Un clásico imprescindible de la psicología social.
En esta obra el autor nos presenta el concepto de disonancia cognitiva, clave para entender muchas de nuestras contradicciones, mediante la historia de la secta milenarista que Festinger observó para poner a prueba dicho concepto.De esta manera, con un trato riguroso y a la vez respetuoso y amable con los implicados, vemos cómo somos capaces de decir una cosa y hacer la contraria, cómo nos aferramos a nuestras creencias incluso (y especialmente) cuando se demuestran falsas, y hasta dónde somos capaces de llegar para preservarlas.Festinger es un gigante de la psicología social, y en esta obra lo demuestra.
Si la psicología te interesa, es imprescindible.
I discovered this book by looking up the the term "cognitive dissonance" on Wikipedia.
I am interested in this since I at 18 years old was persuaded to join a cult called the "Church" of Scientology.
That fact changed the direction of my life considerably and was the reason why I at 20 "immigrated" to the US.
I found the book a little tedious at times with its detailed descriptions.
But overall it was an interesting read.
Cognitive dissonance have very broad applications in life.
The term doesn't just apply to cult memberships.
This is one of the landmark studies in the field of cognitive dissonance.
Cognitive dissonance is something our brains adjust to, often, not rarely.
It's worth knowing what it is.
Rather, so that one will know why the people around them function as they do.A group of UFO believers predict visitors from space.
They prophesy a date.
Do they say?, "Oh, well I guess there are no such visitors en route." Or do they say?, "Oh, they're coming.
We just got the date wrong." This book tells that story.
Also, this book alludes to a couple of other, similar events.
