https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2527895.Ringen_sluttet
The cover: Evening on Karl Johan Street by Munch (1892)Description: Featuring an iconoclastic hero who refuses to accept the standards of his society, this novel is one of the Nobel Prize–winner’s greatest works.
The only son of a miserly lighthouse-keeper and an alcoholic mother, Abel grows up in a remote Norwegian village then travels around the United States.
Available in the United States for the first time since the 1930s, this controversial novel features themes that are strikingly contemporary.
Bleak and controlled, it felt precisely like the work of an author nearing his end, reflecting on it all – life, death, the bad things you did and maybe some of the good ones as well.
What really kills me, I have to say, is those small acts of kindness, those almost excessive instances of self-forgetting and of giving-to-others-no-matter-what-it-costs-you which Hamsun – like no other – is able to suddenly throw into his stories; without going into it, without dwelling on it, without making it a big deal.
Or maybe it is a big deal.
S jedne strane mnoge njegove stavove mogu bez problema da priznam kao svoje - držanje po strani, neopterećenost materijalnim prohtevima, nepostojanje ambicije ali s druge strane njegov lik kao da prikazuje naličje takvog načina razmišljanja, realno propadanje jedinke pri čemu je slaba uteha to što ni ljudima koji su navodno 'uspeli u životu' nije ništa bolje.
Takođe, njegov lik nepobitno pokazuje da niko ne može postojati u vakuumu ma koliko se trudio u tome, najposle dolazi se do zaključka da je on takođe deo društva, iako jako čudan njegov deo, ali ipak deo i simptom a ne potpuno odvojena ravan postojanja.
And completely in keeping with his German forebears.Every time I read Hamsun I feel like I'm party to a group of adventurers in search for an abandoned ship forgotten long ago somewhere in the vastness of this world.
When we finally chance upon the ship and get on board we discover a chest hidden down below.
Not only are we enriched by the journey and the find, but more importantly, have discovered truths concerning humanity, even if they are only small ones.And we can't help but smile.The Ring is Closed is such a novel, one of grand eloquence, epic in scope, that speaks to each individual spirit and reminiscient of his Nobel Prize winning novel,Growth in the Soil, although not as profound or serious, but nonetheless, a true work of beauty and truth.
Terrific! I refuse to believe Hamsun was sympathetic of Nazism -- The Ring is Closed is profoundly humanist. In addition, it is a literary masterpiece, as far as its formal structure is concerned: no morals, no conclusions, no definitive statements. The text weaves a human, in all their anonymity and loneliness; both exalted by grandeur and crushed by routine.
Abel poses these existential questions directly: What's it all for anyway?
When and how do money and social position offer their limited comforts?
Enough subtlety exists in the novel to entertain these questions fairly.
Abel comes and goes restlessly, his opportunities come and go, his money comes and goes.
It feels kind of...tidal.But I wasn't sure what to do with other things here.
I even felt that the novel ended too soon, that it would have been rich to see Abel's behavior and perspective as he neared the end of his life.
It is a bit tiring to see the hero giving up so much so easily, but that's Hamsun and that's part of the message that is discovered during the second part of the book.
To me, the greatest thing of this book is the message, or at least what I gathered: one of the reasons why the hero decides to embark in this approach to life is because the other option, to follow the usual lifestyle and the usual routine is a means to consume one's life, to get to each one's own death with a premeditated plan to follow what everyone does, without achieving much, ending with the same type of problems and futile efforts, which in his view, is not appealing.
This novel is about the interpersonal relationships between a shiftless, possibly murderous, drifter and the residents of his Danish home town. Shiftless is the keyword: Abel Brodersen can, and even prefers, to live with no material comforts whatsoever. Seems like a weird concept, but's an amazing novel and I liked it a lot. So thanks for the copy, Dad.
A fantastic novel, but the editor of this edition should've been dragged out to the back of the publishing house and shot. The constant errors were distracting, and that was a damn shame.
Instead, at least with The Ring is Closed, we get a work that in some ways seems to presage The Stranger by Camus with its rejection of traditional values, though perhaps not the picture of ultimate absurdity, as Meursault's story seems to indicate.I've now read two of Hamsun's books, this one and a much earlier work, Pan (published in 1894), neither of which would I have connected with ideological movements from the early years of the 20th Century.
The Ring Is ClosedIt is important to consider that Hamsun wrote this book towards the end of a life well lived yet one which was perhaps tended towards apathy, questioning the value of anything, as he felt his grasp of existence seeping away, day by day.
Whilst there are clear parallels with running themes of his earlier novels; the class-addled notions of superiority of the rich, and certainly echoes of the narrow minded small town mentality found in so much of his writing, the general antipathy towards modernisation is absent as is a heavy contrast with the same against man living as one with nature.
Nobel Prize-winner Knut Hamsun published this last work of his fiction at age 76, though he lived on to be 92.
Situations of their protagonists are replayed, and the on-off-on-again romantic reversals with women return in full measure, too, making the title particularly apt 40 years and more after he had published those early books.Hamsun's single greatest book is the unforgettable Growth of the Soil, from 1917 and cited by the Nobel committee when they awarded Hamsun the Prize in 1920.
A beautiful novel that highlights all of Hamsun's strengths and revisits many of the familiar themes of earlier works.
It is remarkable that Hamsun left the field of fiction writing after The Ring is Closed.
He was as creative as ever.For those with a little knowledge of Hamusun, the familiarities we find include an enigmatic, loner of a protagonist, unrealized and unrequited love, a vague hint of a violent act, and the quirkiness of small town, rural, early 20th century Norwegian societal norms.
Hamsun puts a fine point on many of these recurring themes in this book.
Not one of the three or four best, but close.
Maybe I am missing something in the logic and style of modernism.Main character is flawed, but still likeable Abel, growing up in small Scandinavian coastal community.
By refusing most of the social norms, he leads unusual life, between USA and Norway, while looking to return to Olga, the love of his life.I understood the idea of not wanting to judge any of the characters.
I could even understand not showing much of the emotions and telling the story in straight-forward and matter-of-fact way.
But what I could not understand is the lack of style in it.
No heroes, no villans, or at least neither embodied in one individual, but rather, each character possessing a realistic mixture of flaws and valour. Hamsun creates a melancholy and comedic look at life in a litte coastal town and the repetetive ups and downs of living. Not my favorite work of his, but among the greatest works of the 20th century nonetheless. This edition is shameful though. There are so many typos, spelling and grammar mistakes, it does this beautiful work a great disservice.
My first encounter with Hamsun and I really did like it. I enjoyed the fact there are so many situations where the narrator could give a conclusion, or explanation, or a hint why someone did something but Hamsun never does that. I believe this gives a great power to the book as everyone puts himself into position of thinking how would he react.
The Ring is Closed has elements of three of Hamsun's greatest works (Pan, Mysteries, and Hunger). While I enjoyed the book immensely and it in a way serves as a link between Hamsun's early work and The Growth of the Soil - I found it to be missing just a little something to push it to one of my all-time favorite books.
Reading this book to complete reading all the novels of this author. Quite good anyway.
"Le cercle s'est fermé" - French traduction by Régis Boyer
novel
