https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122444.Asterix_and_the_Black_Gold
Asterix and the Black Gold (Astérix #26), Albert Uderzo
Paluu Asterixin luo oli mieluisa. Onhan tämä ihan mahtava!
Kalo Asterix bacanya entah beberapa kali. Sampe bukunya lecek dan akhirnya di bundel supaya gak ilang2an. Komik terkeren sepanjang masa setelah Tintin.
I love asterix books they have history and funny cartoons!
helemaal gelezen!
Another fun Asterix read.SynopsisPanoramix needs a special ingredient to make the magic potion but he ran out and now the Gauls are pretty defenseless.At the same time, the Romans send a spy, Zerozerosix to Galicia to find out the secret recipe of the magic potion.As Asterix and Obelix set out to find the missing ingredient Zerozerosix joins them and tries to stop them. ReviewIt's a fun read as always, with a lot of jokes a bit ahead of their time. This one had Asterix and Obelix staying in Bethlehem and Pontius Pilate made an appearance.
Un peu monotone... Le passage dans le désert est le seul un peu distrayant, lorsque Astérix et Obélix croise successivement un florilège de peuples moyen - orientaux en guerre les uns avec les autres.Le reste de l'aventure est à peine égayé par la présence d'un Zérozérosix parodiant (vite fait) James Bond.
Je n'ai pas détesté cette aventure d'Astérix. C'est certain qu'à la longue, les calembours m'énervaient. L'idée de la mouche était mauvaise et ne m'a pas du tout fait rire. Le clin d'oeil à Sean Connery était correct. Sinon en général, j'ai trouvé cette BD quand même pas si mal.
AWESOME!!! There is nothing that comes close to Asterix - I have the whole series, both on e-books and hard-copy and they are some of most treasured possessions. I grew up with them and they are simply the best!
In this one, Asterix and Obelix have to the Middle East to procure some Black gold - oil - which Getafix uses as an ingredient for the magic potion.Funny, full of references to modern-day and with a little twist at the end.
Brilliant.
I love these books. I read so many of them when I was a kid and it is always a joy to read them again. I usually find a joke or two that went way over my head when I was 10!
Uderzo is not quite the writer that Goscinny was, but he's not bad, and this is a true Asterix adventure. It is not one of the best, but it is still very good.
L'Odyssée d'Astérix - Albert UderzoRating: ★★Review coming soon!
Uderzo only but still very good
3.5
Asterix in search of oil in the Middle East.
Getafix, the druid has run out o frock oil, and that is the essential ingredient to make the magic potion! So Asterix and Obelix have to go search for rock oil to make the magic potion again.
A ja O lähtevät hakemaan Aktavitixille vuoriöljyä Välimeren perukoilta Mesopotamiasta. Perinteinen reissuseikkailu.
Good ripping fun ey
figures of speech and wordplay experts
Esconde o objetivo do título original: Astérix vai procurar petróleo ao médio oriente.
Astérix vai ao médio oriente na galera de um já conhecido de outras andanças mercador fenício, aparecendo um druida espião - zerozerosix, com modernices de espião.
é na palestina que aportam, dormindo, coincidência, num estábulo em belém.
passam aventuras no deserto, conseguem o petróleo (nafta) e regressam, audazmente, sendo certo que quando chegam observam que o druida substituira o óleo de pedra por beterraba.
este episódio mantém a tradição de analogias entre o mundo moderno e antigo, mas de algum modo menos subtis que anteriormente.
Or, ils n’y iront pas seuls, le druide-espion Zérozérosix essayera par tous les moyens de faire tomber à l’eau cette mission de toute première importance.À vrai dire, celui-ci est mon premier Astérix (je ne suis pas français).
Je sais que c’est le deuxième album solo d’Albert Underzo mais je n’ai pas encore les éléments pour le comparer avec les premières sagas d’Astérix.
Cependant, je peux dire que j’ai bien aimé les calembours de cet album et je pense que les clins d’œil aux scènes bibliques et au monde des agents secrets feront le bonheur de beaucoup de lecteurs.
Kids aren't reading Asterix these days so I read one to see why.
I'm not sure kids today would get the jokes and the stereotypes, but to me as an adult, it all brought a smile.
The rock oil (petra oleum) helped create the magic elixir (a thriving economy).
When Asterix and Obelix's society ran out of it, the solution was to go invade, occupy, and take the oil from the originating land.
When the occupiers return, they discover someone had finally tried to come up with an alternative to rock oil (innovate) and had actually done so.
"Why didn't you do that before we left?" Asterix and Obelix asked.
If I made the kids map this out...maybe I could count it as geography!Another library sale find.
My oldest had read a few from the library, which apparently they don't carry anymore so we bought it to preserve for (our) future generations.
I finally caved and read it.
There are some great plays on words that most kids won't get, for example, the trader's name is Economikrisis, but I sure enjoyed them.A fun book.
Teaches a bit of history, a bit of geography, is just plain fun, gets my boys to read....worth the 25 cents.
Ancora una volta Panoramix ha problemi con la pozione magica.
Asterix e Obelix accompagnati dal misterioso Zerozeroseix dovranno arrivare fino in Mesopotamia per portarne un po' a destinazione.Secondo albo sceneggiato e disegnato completamente da Uderzo, l'Odissea di Asterix è il racconto di un lungo viaggio a tappe.
Mai come prima d'ora la storia è ricca di colpi di scena e trovate ad effetto.
Uderzo si diverte a far comparire facce famose e a giocare con luoghi, persone e usanze in una storia dal ritmo davvero incalzante.Da non perdere: Panoramix ubriaco di Whisky e la gag delle frecce.

Asterix and Obelix travel to Judea to find oil, which is somehow one of the vital ingredients of the Gaul's magic potion. At the same time, the Romans send one of their agents (a clear parody of the Sean Connery version of James Bond) to infiltrate their mission. The book has many references to biblical-era Palestine (resting in Bethlehem, the hand-washing of the Roman prefect, etc.) We also see the return of Ekonomikrisis, and a hilarious parody of the conflict between the Akkadians, Hittites, Assyrians and Medes.A fun and interesting tale, even if there isn’t much action.
I've gotten so accustomed to ripping these Goscinny-less attempts by Uderzo that this one took me a little by surprise. It's better. The bit on warring in the Middle East between Medes, Akkadians, Assyrians, and Hittites is well done. I chortled. Wordplays continue to fall flat. The idea of finding alternative ingredients - beet juice - to replace volatile, dirty, and hard to find petroleum in the making of the secret potion made me happy. Overall, a good read. Still falls short of most Goscinny efforts, but worthy of a glance.
Asterix the Black Gold – A&O nearly die of exposure in the Arabian desert trying to obtain some “rock oil” for Getafix; prompting modern readers to ask, what good is this petra oleum, anyway?
