https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/931984.The_Presentation_of_Self_in_Everyday_Life
I’m probably going to say something a little daft about this book – but I do think two things: Goffman really didn’t need to be quite so squeamish about his central metaphor of ‘all the world’s a stage’ and he should have started with something he said in his conclusion and worked out from there.
I think it would have been good for him to start with this as I had thought this book was going to be much more focused on the individual, and it really isn't - and that really is a good thing.I think his main problem with the idea of ‘performance’ is that people really don’t see what they do in life as being a performance.

explains in 250 pages why parties are terriblefive stars now, five stars forever
In this book, Goffman elucidates a "dramaturgical" theory of self, which he claims is an additional method of explaining human action.
Despite these difficult sections, Goffman's style is breezy and interesting enough to make th is book worth reading for a layman.Roughly, Goffman sets up a model of human interaction that takes most of its metaphors from the realm of theatrical performance.
He joins this "team" idea to the theatrical metaphor by emphasizing the difference between performers and audiences.After laying out his framework, Goffman then uses examples from literature, his own research, and other researchers to illustrate his point.
Günlük yaşama dair dramaturjik bakış; Bir tiyaro mu oynuyoruz her gün?
Sahne ile kulis arasında mı koşuşturuyoruz?
Genel kabul görmüş ve yaygın bir görüş kesinlikle: "Dünya bir sahne." Çoğumuz dünyaya herşeyi bilerek geldiğimizden dolayı (daha doğrusu her şeyi bilerek yetiştiğimizden) burada da bıyık altından gülmemiz doğal.
(Hafif şaşkınlıklar ve onaylamalar ile birlikte)Kitabı okuduktan sonra ne olabilir?
İlki bundan sonra çevrenizde gerçekleşen performanslara karşı size bir farkındalık kazandırabilir.
İkincisi günlük yaşamda etkileşim içerisinde iken, misal çalışırken ya da misafir ağırlarken, bir an sahnede olduğunuz aklınıza gelebilir.
Sonra kaldığınız yerden devam edersiniz.
"العالم، في حقيقة الأمر، حفل زفاف"تلخيص/ مراجعة الكتاب -بالعربي - ضمن مشروع سطرينhttp://satrein.com/project/the-presen...
Great book for those interested in social interactions. After reading it, it will force you to consciously consider why people behave the way they do, or why you yourself do. Be forewarned, it will disappoint your view of mankind as well. You come to recognize that humans are often limited by how they believe others perceive of them. It's definitely a book that will leave you seeking a higher reason for living, which in the end is a pretty good thing. :)
Соціальна взаємодія опирається на уявлення учасників один про одного. Проте як ці уявлення конструюються? І чому ми віримо одним презентаціям себе та не віримо іншим? Якраз про це і йдеться в книзі Ірвінґа Ґофмана "Представлення себе в повсякденному житті". Ласкаво запрошую перегляду!https://youtu.be/HqpzNLLvo9o
The book is propelled along by an array of interesting examples taken from sociology, ethnography, literature, and philosophy.
These are the moments when we realize we are even wearing a mask, moments that Goffman uses to expose the entire system of misrepresentation.We are used to assuming that misrepresentation is morally questionable, perhaps wrong.
How would society function if lying wasn’t used to smooth interactions between co-workers, spouses, siblings, and friends?
In fact, untruths are the grease in the engine of society.

I have met people who didn't seem to have a "backstage."
Contrary to many of the reviews listed, I think Goffman's examination of social interaction as presentation is increasingly relevant in the consumer/citizen, capitalist culture we have created for ourselves in the Western, developed world.
His ideas create discomfort for his reader because they undermine the very notion of authenticity that individuals cling to.
Assuredly, Goffman's preliminary examination contributed to her more intense theory on gender presentation and the idea that we are all performing gender, a stage which is not solely reserved for transgendered or GLTB communities.Goffman, however, does not completely ignore the emotional dissonance the masquerade causes.
Structuralist extremism that rejects the very existence of self.Identifies the equivalent of self as the total mass of masks worn in the different roles played throughout life i.e. the sum of social encounters one has had thus far.
This also means the self is in a state of perpetual change depending on the “casting” of life or in other words the social situations creates the very essence of man and thus conceptualizes his being “through the eyes of the other”.
It is impossible according to Goffman to even perceive of oneself as a human being unless in a social context.
Uses theatre metaphors and numerous everyday social situations to give common sense credence to his socialist creationism.
To varying degrees, we are trying to manage the impression everybody has of us in our different social rules.Take, say, a teacher.
In instances when a teacher is seen at, for example, Burger King, or anywhere in public, it might come as a shock to students, since this is a situation when the performer is not occupying the role one of the audience members (the students) know them in.I have mixed feelings about this book, as I do with a lot of theoretical social science, since in a way the analysis is little more than common sense.
I think this is a great book to explain the way that people carry themselves in the world.
This book is the great grand daddy to Daniel Pink, Chuck Klosterman, Malcolm Gladwell and many other social-esque authors.
This book explains wonderfully how perception is a mask we wear, a color we paint in, a lock box we hide our true selves in.
I wrote my Senior Seminar dissertation on this book.
It was a great read....might be re reading it soon with the way Facebook shows how people mask and unmask themselves through different social cues.
I like the idea of the metaphor of presenting self as acting a part upon a stage and Goffman's extension of this metaphor but it eventually breaks down and applies only well only to institutions. It's ideas are also very dated so I would recommend reading scholars who have built upon Goffman's work rather than Goffman. As an alternative to struggling through this thing, the wikipedia page on dramaturgy is pretty good and links to http://ssr1.uchicago.edu/NEWPRE/CULT9... which is an excellent summary.
This is a highly insightful book on the performative nature of social interactions. It also reveals the severe restrictions on acceptable middle class behavior in the 1950s. Accessible and engaging and you don't have to be a sociology nerd to enjoy it.
I think this book served as a huge reminder that people act in different ways depending on the audience. The audience could be friends, family members, classmates, teachers, or coworkers. Each audience changes, meaning that the performer has to change too.
I was assigned this in a drama class and although I dropped out of the class, hung onto the book as a "to-be-read". Finished it late in life and kicked myself for it. Offers invaluable insight on behaviour and perception.
Great book on how people create images of who they are, and how interpersonal communication is inherently dramatic in form.
my handbook when I finished my thesis.this book is kind of manual of life.
An excellent look at social interactions, bringing us the notion of dramaturgical analysis. All the world is a stage, as Shakespeare wrote.
It is interesting how Goffman presents face-to-face interactions as capable of being framed as a subject of study in sociology through “dramaturgical analysis”.
3.Idealization: Presenting a performance of the self that exemplifies officially accredited values of the society, which may not be true of the individual’s overall behaviour.4.Misrepresentation: The sign-accepting tendency of an audience may lead to: a) the actor being misunderstood or b) the audience being misled or duped.
5.Reality and Contrivance: While unintentional acts are taken for reality and constructed actions are judged as contrivance, Goffman says that such extremes are not true, highlighting the paradox that “life itself is a dramatically enacted thing” where “anticipatory socialization” assists the individual in his daily affairs.
Knjiga predstavlja sociolosku studiju - drustveni zivot kao pozornica.
Uloga izrazavanja jeste stvaranje utisaka o sebi, izrazavanje u smislu komunikativne uloge koju pojedinac igra u drustvenoj interakciji.Tokom interakcije sa drugima ponasa se kao glumac na pozornici, a svojim govorom, gestovima i odevanjem, predstavlja sebe kroz uloge.
Ovo je mesto gde pojedinac zaista dodje do sebe i oslobadja se od uloga koje igra kada je pred drugim ljudima.Takodje pokazuje koliko duboko moralno prosudjivanje zadire u svakodnevni zivot i kako je tesko biti autsajder u bilo kakvoj situaciji ukoliko se ne pridrzavamo moralnih i drustveno prihvatljivih normi (moja prica otprilike ;P).
What can I say... the devil is in the detail, and Goffman is the master of the detail. Life is a theatre stage, social interaction is a performance, and the individual is a social construct… this explains selfie culture :)
Interesting book about why people act the way they do in different social settings.
A dense, brilliant book. The central thesis has pervaded thinking so much since it was written.
Hepimiz bir sahnedeyiz ve hepimiz rol yapıyoruz. Bazen iyiyi bazen kötüyü oynuruz ana rol yapıyoruz.
The individuals play different roles adapted to the situation which they find themselves in, often depended on the type of people, and whether it is matter of private life, public life or the academic world.
How we talk to our grandparents is usually not the same way we interact with our friends or online.Certainly, it is also a known fact that we often imitate the actions of role models or idols, or adapt certain values or political opinions of the ones we respect.
This mask we put on in different social environments is naturally connected to the way we wish other people to see us.
The sort of anecdotal sociology that makes intuitive sense, using the highly influential metaphor of human-behavior-as-theater. While I would like some more data sets, some more thorough surveys, some more rigor, it's still a fascinating set of hypotheses that could no doubt frame some interesting research, and no doubt has. As a non-sociologist, it's more of an interesting way to examine daily interactions, and that's how I employ it-- to find a sociological explanation for my colleague being a dick.
It threatens to distract you in the middle of any important social interaction as you suddenly feel the dramatic dimension of what you're now experiencing.
It is also a great book to read for anyone who loves fiction literature, and maybe even writers, as it gives you a whole new space in which to consider the dynamics of the players.
Just beware: I've been gifted with a very bad memory, so I expect to forget the stage (although I'm so tempted to read it again), but smarter people may have to deal with a whole new set of distractions when present in society.
I read this classic sociological text at the recommendation of afriend, because I was researching identity online.
The book was quiteuseful to provide some frameworks for understanding the presentationof self online.
But it's a rather distasteful work: personally, Idon't see my entire life as a performance and everyone around me as anaudience as he wants me to do (he calls this attitude his"dramaturgical perspective").
Furthermore, the book was published in1959, just before the social revolution of the 1960s exploded theexpectations of formality it documents--all the aspects of properbehavior, social distinctions, making a good impression, and soforth.
This characterization of our self-presentation as analogous to a theatrical performance has a few interesting points to make, but the examples are dated and the social situations depicted often no longer occur or take place in a context of refinement not ordinarily encountered.People who like this book might also like a literary treatment of exactly the same subject. For them I recommend The Damnation of Theron Ware: Or Illumination.
For example, while Kahneman's Thinking, Fast and Slow posited a novel theory of economics and psychology, Goffman's work spoke about novel ideas in sociology and psychology.The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life was Goffman's statement of how ALL people were actors performing in different stages.
He uses Santayana to posit our desire to act consistent with ourselves, with only our conscience as audience: Under our published principles and plighted language we must assiduously hide all the inequalities of our moods and conduct, and this without hypocrisy, since our deliberate character is more truly ourself than than is the flux of our involuntary dreams ...
I like older academic books that haven't reached the mainstream because I think there's likely to be interesting stuff there that I haven't heard before.
This book fits that description - it's one of the top 20~ sociology books of all time, but didn't make so much of an impact that its ideas are a part of the cultural consciousness I don't think - but it didn't leave me with anything super interesting.
The author examines the various social roles that people play, the way we present ourselves, through a dramaturgical lens.
The book is not cynical or judgmental regarding the roles that we play.
Goffman claims that the desire to present a certain image of ourselves to other people is the real driving force behind our everyday interactions.
Basically, he believes we're all actors putting on a show to an audience."All the world's a stage, And all the men and women merely players; They have their exits and their entrances, And one man in his time plays many parts, His acts being seven ages.
At first, the infant, Mewling and puking in the nurse's arms." --William Shakespeare.This is a different interpretation of social interactions from we are generally used to because Western culture tend to believe the self, our identiy/personality, is stable and inherent to each person.
I applied Goffman's "dramaturgy" framework in analyzing niche consumption practices.
I found concepts of "fronts", "idealization" and "defensive practices" useful, as they are the clear display of one's everyday behavior, which students of sociology can readily learn a whole lot about the aptitudes of others just from observing those.My favorite is the concept of "teams" where an individual's self-presentation is often motivated by a larger purpose - a team purpose which one tries to identify with.
Often times, these are the "puppet strings" that are unconscious but they shape our lives in very influential ways.
It would be going too far to say that he has discovered the secret to understanding why everyone does everything, but the concept I think is a useful tool for unlocking particular situations and conversations in terms of their setting and format as much as (or even instead of) their content.
His observations of how the staff behave in Scottish hotels - very differently depending on whether they are in front of guests or not - were particularly interesting for any client-facing workers.
The style is of course a bit dated now, but the material is very interesting.
This book presents a lot of interesting propositions by which an identity in everyday communication can be interpreted as identity construction.
For example, the notions of marriage, the notions of work-life, and the bounds of "social" themselves have changed since this time.
Somehow, still, the message is clear enough to resonate more than half a century later.There are bits here that are really timely for those who are interested in social media communication at the present moment.
This pairs very well with folkloric accounts of social media communication.
This account is very believable and valuable to a social media scholar or people interested in folkloric social lives at the least.
پرسپکتیو نمایشی اولین بار توسط اروینگ گافمن بکار رفت و او صحنه، بازیگران و تماشاچیان تیاتر را استعارهای برای مشاهده و آنالیز مساله بغرنج روابط اجتماعی قرار داد. از این نگاه، شخص (خود) از قسمتهای گوناگونی تشکیل شده که افراد آن را بازی میکنند. کلید طلایی بازیگران اجتماعی در این است که خودهای مختلفشان را طوری به کار بگیرند تا بتوانند تاثیرات بخصوصی را بر تماشاچیان متفاوتشان خلق کرده و حفظ نمایند. ارتباطات بین افراد که توسط محیط و بازیگر انجام میگیرد، «پرفورمنس» است. پرفورمنسی که ساخته شده تا دیگران
پرسپکتیو نمایشی اولین بار توسط اروینگ گافمن بکار رفت و او صحنه، بازیگران و تماشاچیان تیاتر را استعاره‌ای برای مشاهده و آنالیز مساله بغرنج روابط اجتماعی قرار داد.
از این نگاه، شخص (خود) از قسمت‌های گوناگونی تشکیل شده که افراد آن را بازی می‌کنند.
کلید طلایی بازیگران اجتماعی در این است که خودهای مختلفشان را طوری به کار بگیرند تا بتوانند تاثیرات بخصوصی را بر تماشاچیان متفاوتشان خلق کرده و حفظ نمایند.
ارتباطات بین افراد که توسط محیط و بازیگر انجام می‌گیرد، «پرفورمنس» است.
➖ مقصود از خواندن؛ دریافت راهی به سوی هویت برساخته‌ی افراد در فضاهای مجازیسال مطالعه: ١٣٩۴
As a sociology student, this is not the easiest piece to read. However, if you can get past the way it was written, the reader is sure to learn a thing or two about identity.Hoffman certainly makes it easier with the use of performances.
A classical functionalist analysis on the importance and process of dramatic performance in everyday (in fact, mainly in workplace and institutions) life. The overemphasis on rationalized behavior and the subsequent marginalization of the ambivalence, conflict, and power structure both in team and within individual who, as living creatures, is conditioned by various contradictory and unspeakable desire, biological impulse, and contingencies, are the major limitations of the book. Its largely uncritical altitude towards personal and social fronts conforming racial, gender, and class stereotype is similarly problematic. In summary, this is an old but informative book.
This book goes through three individual stories/scripts. A breaking down and examination of each, environmental scenario as with regard to symbolism that occur in daily social interactions in a everyday life. Including distinctive daily social activity with interpretations of environmental symbolism meanwhile explaining the affect that it has on people. Written in a dynamic and easy to understand literature style, the book feels like a drama-art while reading. This book was the first of Goffman's book I have read. It has made me look at Erving Goffman as a thaumaturgy and left me excited to read more of his books.

"In breve, poiché la realtà che interessa l'individuo è al momento imperscrutabile, bisogna che egli faccia affidamento sulle apparenze.
E, paradossalmente, più l'individuo dà importanza alla realtà che non è percepibile, e più deve concentrare la sua attenzione sulle apparenze.L'individuo tende a trattare i presenti sulla base delle impressioni che essi in quel momento danno per ciò che riguarda il loro comportamento passato e futuro.
Perciò gli atti di comunicazione si traducono in atti morali.
Le impressioni date agli altri tendono a essere trattate come pretese e promesse implicite e le pretese e le promesse tendono ad avere un carattere morale."
