https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/371787.Sorceress_of_Darshiva
I read this series every year [at least] but I still see so many issues in the way women are characterized.
*rolls eyes* The Nadrak women all carry sharp knives that they use to cut any man who would dare touch her person without permission.
"It seems that the young priestess was the most enthusiastic participant in the Grolim rite of sacrifice – either out of an excess of fanaticism, or innate cruelty, or because she knew that this was the best way to attract the eye of the new archpriest.
For another example, we need to look back at book two of this series, The King of the Murgos.
If you like fantasy, aren't troubled by uncomplicated plots, don't really mind that characterisation is pretty thin, then you will like this book.
I think my favourite character of them all is the wolf, who appears towards the end of the book, because her simple understanding of the world about her is a fresh change from the frequent smarmy comments of the other characters.
It might sound like I didn't enjoy this book, but I did.
This is because I read the book early in the morning, on my way to work, when my brain has barely switched on, and the easy, reasonably predicatable storyline, the magic, the monsters and demons, is just what I need at that time of the day.
Warming up nicely now. But I still wish Garion had a bit more side to him...
Fluffy, silly, and funThe Malloreon books are, let's be honest, not incredibly well written. All the main characters have started to sound the same, they all use the same idioms and expressions, and things got far too well for them. It's like a band of Mary Sues. I still love this book. It's fun to read, the events and writing are fun and good enough to be enjoyable. It's not war and peace, but it's still a fun read.
In general, however, I feel that the series begins to lose momentum and somehow becomes tedious and repetitive, so fortunately is completed the next book that I'm sure will have more interest.Λίγο πριν το τέλος, στο τέταρτο βιβλίο της σειράς οι ήρωες μας εξακολουθούν να περιφέρονται στην εμπόλεμη ζώνη προσπαθώντας να βγάλουν άκρη με τις διάφορες προφητείες για να μπορέσουν να βρουν τον τόπο όπου θα γίνει η τελική αναμέτρηση.
Με λίγα λόγια δεν γίνεται και πολλά πράγματα και το βιβλίο είναι περισσότερο μία προετοιμασία για το τελευταίο όπου θα κριθούν και τα πάντα.
I love the in depth history and geography that Eddings develops here.
I could easily picture travelling alongside the characters while they were on their quest.
The different uses of the will & the world kept me entertained as the increasing intensity of the plot had me glued to the pages.
The characters were a lot of fun too.
The well-developed accents for each region really serve to bring this world together while also allowing each person to stand out.
This was a very entertaining tale that has me dying for the conclusion of this high intensity tale.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Serinin 4. kitabı. Diğer 3 kitapta olduğu gibi bu kitapta karakterlerin iyi işlenmesi aralarda sürpriz olaylar olması ile kendisini okutturuyor. Bu serinin bir filmi yapılsa ne güzel olurdu diye geçiyor insanın aklından.
With Demon Lords and enemy forces on one side and agents of Emperor Zakath trying to capture them on the other, the party will need to hurry if they want to make it to the Place Which Is No More in time.
The constant threat to the world also feels a bit lessened in this book due to the need to rush everyone from one task to the next so the bad guys, while there, aren't quite as menacing as they were in previous installments.
It's too bad they weren't in the series more towards the beginning.
As the fourth in the Malloreon series this book sees things get serious, setting up the characters and the story for the finale to come.
Here our intrepid crew manage to uncover an undamaged version of the Ashabine Oracles, a vital piece of the puzzle that leads them to the next stage in their quest and the very thing that allows Garion to see the truth behind what he might have to sacrifice to stop Zandramas' plans.
As our heroes continue their quest war breaks out amongst the various factions and races that have been stirred up by Zandramas and her henchment as they lead the world to the edge of destruction.
I read the Bellgraid and the Malloreon about 10 years ago now, so my memory isn't up to a synopsis of the series or anything, but I did highly enjoy them then, they still grace my shelves now, and I hope to reread them in the near future.These books are great for the reader that enjoys fantasy series reading (so if you prefer a one off, try something else).
They develop an amazing story and history that kept me engaged.
The two series are intimately related/connected.
Out of all the battles they had, someone finally got injured!
Bruised.
For a couple days.
And it wasn't even an important character.Okay, so I find books more interesting when characters have to struggle through injuries every now and then.Very repetitive.
Attacks, storms, lots of traveling, any problems are solved in a chapter or two.
It felt like a bunch of miniature episodes of adventure instead of one super-duper long one.
If they had come up against the demons more, or Zandramas's competitors more, then it might have felt more connected.
Instead, the main characters managed to avoid a lot of the fighting and hardly got involved.
Eddings Sagan om Mallorea är ett intressant verk och mot slutet av serien blir det väldigt tydligt att ingen av böckerna står sig speciellt bra för sig själva. Att hela serien är ett verk som ska betraktas och läsas tillsammans är inte ovanligt, men extra tydligt i det här fallet. I takt med att berättelsen knyts ihop och upplösningen nalkas så förklaras också mycket av de händelser och skeenden som byggt upp de tidigare böckerna. Lite oväntat, men det här är en bra bok, och lämnar en spänd förväntan inför upplösningen!
A fitting lead up to the final book. A lot happens in this book, some of which will be a interesting but pleasant surprise to the reader. Nearing the end of their journey Garion and his friends find themselves in a lot of sticky situations in this book. An enjoyable and exciting read for a book which may be considered the hardest to get right. I can't wait to read the last and final book of the series.
Of the five book in the Malloreon series, this one is probably the slowest. SO many things need to happen, and Eddings shoved many of them into this volume to set up the final confrontation in the last book. As such, this one can be a bit disjointed in its pacing. But, it has the epic scene with Durnik in it, so of course I like it. On to the last book! I wonder if it will end the same way as the last time I read it?
I read these books as a kid and they were great then. As I've grown older, I've noticed the detracting factors from the quality of writing to the originality of the story - but my nostalgia wins through. This series - The Mallorean - does not have as many good qualities as the first, but again, nostaglia. This series will always be a classic for me. Will update once I've read them again.
Still very much enjoying this five-book series and now look forward to the final denouement in the last of this epic.For anyone thinking of reading the Malloreon I would suggest you get the whole set, since each book is a continuation of the story and they are more like five parts of the whole, than separate books.
Have I mentioned how nifty it is to have the Main Evil Guy be, in fact, a woman? And not a shriveled old crone of a woman, even?I didn't know Leigh Eddings died in February of this year. Thank you, Leigh, for making sure we got as many good female characters as males in these series.
The ongoing challenges facing our Heroes continue to grow in danger and the levels of deceit reach new heights. We meet a new disciple and a new prophet. Things are a changing!
As with previous books in the series, they travel to various locations and have relatively brief encounters with a variety of people, seeking out information.
Or if it did, it wouldn't make much of a splash.My biggest complaint at this time (beyond the fact that the pattern of the books has become extremely repetitive and that nothing much really happens in them) is that there are too many characters and Eddings doesn't really offer us sufficient time with any of them.
I love the Melcenes.We also learn more about the Nadraks as Yarblek, Silk's partner and Vella, Yarblek's woman appear in it more often than others.
I kind of like the idea of armed women stabbing gropers until as men, as a whole in society, learn to keep their hands to themselves.
But I can't make it work with a 12 year old girl.Between all the bad women being characterized as sexually lax in some way, the whole of Nadrak society, and Polgara's rampant misandry, this book has some rough spots for me.But just some rough spots.
The Sorceress of Darshiva,book four of the Malloreon series, by David Eddings is about a man named Belgarion who gathers a large group of differently talented people and they go to catch the thief who kidnapped Belgarion's son to fulfill the dark prophecy instead of the light.
Their party is also being chased by an over-religious disciple of the dark god Torak who Belgarion killed in the previous series, The Belgariad.
As Belgarion and his party chase the thief, they're being chased by the fleet lead by the disciple, and the malloreon army lead by king Zakath of Mallorea.Belgarion is the king of a small isle west of the Seven Kingdoms, and is included in the four countries of the Alorns.
The fourth book in the series - Garion is still chasing Zandramas, hoping to get his son back, but the prophecies are working on making sure he only does so when the time is right.
In the end, all they can do is travel onwards and complete the tasks they have been set before the ultimate Choice has to be made.I'm still very much enjoying this series - although I am starting to feel the frustration of our heroes as the journey is interrupted time and again for things that seem to have little real impact.
The writing style is good, the humor is still there, but the plot is flat. It's just the same old characters, doing the same old things they've been doing for nine books now, and I really don't care that much about them anymore. Entertaining enough to read, but only if you have nothing better to do.
Full review here:http://jamesgenrebooks.blogspot.com/2...At this point in the series, one can't help but feel like the author is using the old Indiana Jones method of using an arrow on a map to move people along, with mosquito stops everyone on the map.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
This Mallorean series is most certainly significantly weaker than the Belgariad. This feels like a novel with an awful lot of wandering around and not many key events.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
