https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12375559-a-small-circus
Had I not read two of Fallada’s later excellent works (Every Man Dies Alone and Little Man What Now?) I would not have bought this confusing, ponderous, bloated, provincial novel.
I would rate this book one star as far as the reading “pleasure” it provides.However, as a study of rural and small town German life in the late 1920s, it is an excellent work describing the divisive nature of the social fabric and deserves four stars for that aspect.
This is an impressive cast for readers who enjoy a plethora of idiosyncratic characters.
I have a thing for German fiction.
Especially those stories that take place in the 1920s and 1930s.
I have read many great books of this era.
I am happy to say "A Small Circus" is one of the best.
I'd give it six stars if I could.
A short description.
A small town in Germany circa 1928.
The life of the town is disrupted by a demonstration of local farmers that goes wrong.
I've read other Fallada books (my other favourite is Every Man Dies Alone) but this one stands out for having so many tightly drawn characters.
Fallada's writing style, dialogue-led, featuring dozens of characters, results in a distracting text that frequently confuses and gets in the way of the plot.
The plot itself is drawn out and confused.
It' some thing writing a novel full of intrigue and duplicitous characters, but when your novel contains over seventy main characters, it all gets a bit bewildering.
Interestingly, there's a lot I recognised in that society: political disaffection, clashes between police and protestors, a split proletariat at each other's throats, and a deep, simmering righteous anger that never gets a satisfying outlet.
I hear from reviewers and a friend that Fallada's later novels are much better, so I will try 'Alone in Berlin' one time.
Great book (fiction, what a find, of a proliferate writer of his time. A cast of characters of a smallish town in Germany before the Nazis' took over. Allow yourself time in the beginning of the book, for the characters to manifest themselves into the thick of a screwy time in the late 1920's in North-eastern Germany...NOTE: (Translated from German to English(not American English) but very readable.
A piercing and caustic mosaic of greed and treachery at the heart of the Weimar Republic, lambasting both the left and the right, and predicting Germany's transformation into National Socialist nightmare, A Small Circus is a pretty impressive debut novel and deserves to be considered a classic of world literature.
The way information is circulated and compromised in a relatively small community is perfectly depicted.
Various narrative elisions are filled in by information being arrived at circuitously before we know anything about it.
What is ultimately on display is a small corner of a dying republic and the locally symptomatological manifestation of a national infirmity.
Small town/village existence in Germany of the early 1930s, with all the Country's various political factions mistrusting each other and the back stabbing that results throughout the story among the various characters.Quite an interesting read considering how long ago this story was actually written.My thanks to the Author, the Publishing House, and Goodreads for making it possible for me to freely view and review this excellent fictional novel of a Germany before Hitler rose to complete power and started WWII by invading Poland in the quest of world dominance.
Perhaps not quite the masterwork that Every Man Dies Alone or Little Man, What Now? is, this is still a remarkable achievement--a stunningly in-depth, detailed depiction of the political and social machinations before, after and during a farmers' march in a small German city 85 years ago: huge cast of characters, reporters, politicians, police, farmers, businessmen. An amazing look at the chaos in Germany just before the Nazi takeover.
Political satire of the highest caliber. In its treatment of small town rivalries and cynical opportunistic journalism, the book is on par with, if not superior to, Hammett's Red Harvest/Kurosawa's Yojimbo and Wilder's Ace In The Hole.
I have a few other Fallada novels on my list, and I will give them a read.The not-so-good: The first 50% of the book was tight and exciting, with a good building of the coming conflict within the town.
But the almost overwhelming number of main and secondary characters (the Dramatis Personae did help!), and the many sub-plots and little intrigues got to be a bit much during the book’s second half.
And the conclusion - after so much conniving, chicanery and double-crossing within the community - was a bit of a fizzle, flat and disappointing.
In the portrayal of the characters there is a darki comedic force (I burst out laughing at a couple of things in it) Fallada was looking at making the going on of the small town in question, based on his own experience as a journalist in the region to be the circus that it was, encapsulating the last days of the Weimar Republic.
Ich bin ein grosser Fallada-Bewunderer, aber das ist der erste Roman, der mir nicht gefallen hat.
Es gibt meiner Meinung nach viel zu viele Charaktere, ein Ausmass, dass ich die nahezu nicht auseinanderhalten konnte.
Die Geschichte die erzaehlt wird ist leider in meinen Augen ein bisschen langweilig und in der Version, die ich gelesen habe, 654 Seiten, viel zu lang.
Was man in diesem fruehren Fallada schon findet sind diese Figuren, die staendig ihr Recht fordern, dabei aber plump und undifferenziert sind.
Solche Figuren findet man in diesem Roman, aber auch in anderen Falladas.
Vielleicht ist das eine Folge der schlechten wirtschaftlichen Lage, Fallada hat es ja selbst mitgemacht.
I had really enjoyed Alone in Berlin but found this one hard going. There were so many different groups and without background knowledge in the politics of 1930s Germany it is hard to understand what is going on and why.
(This 1906 event also did the rounds in the English press as a typical example of blind German obedience to men in military uniform.)On this occasion Fallada’s prized charlatan is a young Berlin salesman who latches onto a small-time peasant march and sees his opportunity for fame and acclamation in provincial Pomerania.
Though Hitler and the Nazis get no more than the occasional mention as one of many factions vying for dominance of the German state, it’s too much to say A Small Circus is a far-sighted chronicle of a society breaking apart.
Having read a few of his other novels, ( Like Little Man, What Now?, Wolf Among Wolves, The Drinker & Every Man Dies Alone), I was expecting to enjoy this one.
There are no heroes in this story, unlike some of his other novels and there isn't any strong female characters.
It is because of this and because there too many characters to keep track (there's a list before the prologue), I can't give it five stars.This novel is entertaining and educational.
Some of the phrasing is unusual and it is dated in some ways, but still a very enjoyable read.
Hans Fallada is a writer that deserves considerably more attention.
Fallada was a man whose life story in itself - run over by a horse and cart then kicked in the face by the horse, suffering typhoid, drug addiction, depression, suicide attempts and a bungled suicide pact that saw him kill his friend and damn near kill himself and commence many stays in mental institutions - is the stuff of a novel in itself.
However, he manages to create characters of intrigue and plot twists aplenty.
The amount of characters and detail never becomes overpowering and there is no let-up from the momentum of the story.
I could absolutely see the author's intent with this book - what he was trying to demonstrate, what points he was making - as he sets the scene in pre-WWII Germany.
The cast of characters in their different factions go through moments of fear, anger and repression as the backstabbing reaches its climax.Yes, I could see what Fallada wanted to show and yet, I just couldn't bring myself to care.
Other authors making political 'commentary' (such as Kafka or Camus) have still crafted amazing stories around their messages, stories that captivate and draw the reader in.
One disappointed reviewer compares Hans Fallada's story to the Keystone Cops.
But that is in part Fallada's point.
Germany was entering an era of brutal repression, of fear of one's neighbours, of a need to keep authority at bay as long as possible; at the same time it was a climate that invited anyone with a position of power, however trivial or limited, to exercise it for his own benefit.Nothing in A Small Circus excuses the path that Germany took in the next two decades, but it helps us to understand it.
Going with three stars for this. This is a long book which at times feels like a rambling dialogue. I never wanted to not bother finishing it but at the same time I'm not 100% sure what it was all about! Glad to be finished!
The strongest of the Fallada novels that I have read. He handles multiple narratives with insight and empathy. This book also generally avoids the forced mawkish sentimentality of alone in Berlin and the incompetent timescale found in Iron Gustav.
Fallada is an interesting writer. This book is a little overloaded with dialogue but provides an interesting insight into prewar German society.
I didn't like this story very well.
