https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6428539-the-book-of-all-power
Here's the thing: if you are into old school sci-fi/thriller novels (and I mean 19th century stuff, like Wells, Verne, Doyle...) this is definitely the type of book for you.
Every time I had to do something else, I kept trying to find excuses to come back to it and finish it.The problem is, this was written before people began questioning the cookie-cutter novel, ending, etc.
But, in terms of when it was released and the ideas/plot points that go into this story, it was definitely groundbreaking for this time.Personally, I highly recommend this and hope you'll trust me when I say "Totally worth it".
This book almost had me so confused in the first few chapters I almost gave up on it owing to the characters that were hard to keep track of and the ill-explained backstory of the Russian revolution lingering in the background.
The book picked up at about the one-third mark when the roles of the characters became more clear, and the story started to really move and become very interesting.
I would only re-read this novel if I were to study the Russian revolution and wanted to go back and see how the historical context fit in with this one.
A Romance with a capital R - the pre-Netflix kind of simple, mindless entertainment.
Edgar Wallace, one of the top mystery/thriller authors of his time, takes us to the Russian Revolution. We follow a 22-year-old man on his first assignment for a Russian-English oil company as he becomes embroiled in intrigue and romance involving a beautiful Grand Duchess, American mobster Cherry Bim, and the influential Israel Kensky and his magical book of "all power". This unlikely cast of characters embark on an adventure full of twists and turns. I found it highly enjoyable. And the ending was unexpected and perfect.
A high-spirited romp through the Russian Revolution with the aid of more coincidences than you can shake a stick at and a good dose of dramatic licence. The pace of the writing sails you past the thin bits and there's enough plot to keep you going, though it gets telegraphed to you a few times too often for my liking in the early chapters.All in all, a good book for long winter bus journeys.
Great ReadA little slow at the beginning, but it picked up quickly. Once I familiarized myself with the Russian character names it took off.
