https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31332.The_Vampire_Armand
Armand knows only how to cry, beg people to love him and seemingly can't get his head around Christ.
He is a pathetic wanker that can do nothing on his own, with an unhealthy obsession with Lestat...whom he both loves and hates.
When alluded to things of interest, Armand/Anne Rice is quick to let the reader know that the matter has already been told in this or that book, and anyway Armand Is Too Jealous Of Lestat to bother recounting it all.
The ending is also absolute shit.
I had hope until the very end, but...No, Armand is still a whiny wanker that needs to grow a backbone.
First of all, Armand is one of my favourite characters.
The way he showed himself in the first two books was utterly fascinating and captivating.
Second, I'm confused why some people complain about the sexuality and erotic scenes with young boys.
It may not fit to our culture but it should be remembered that times were different then and this book was about that time also.Now, I don't know what went wrong but I didn't get the same feeling from this Armand's autobiography.
I wanted to weep for Armand and become hooked to his life but it did the complete opposite.
He's very unique character in the series, if not for his age, then his personality.However the narration dissolves into religious raving at the oddest of times from mid-way on.
It may also be the subject matter, but I still would ask if one likes the way Stephen King writes before recommending Rice for all she is, to me, an essential read to those wanting to know about the rise of vampire fiction.I can read this book again and again, and feel the same heartache for Armand every time.
Horrid."Egg yoke"?
She doesn't know the difference between "yoke" and "yolk"?Armand is in a new room.She spends an hour describing that room.Then spends an hour describing the clothes they wear while standing in that room.Then spends an hour explaining how Armand feels about the clothes they are wearing while standing in that room.Halfway through the chapter she reminds you why they are in that room.Which is good because after all that useless filler bullshit I've completely forgotten that Armand and Marius are still playing "cat and mouse" about their attraction to each other as they have been doing throughout the entire first half of the book.I didn't finish the second half.Instead I took an hour to describe the room I'm sitting in.
Then another hour to describe the clothing I'm wearing while sitting in this room.
Then another hour explaining how I feel about these clothes that I wear while sitting in this room...
I'm completely unable to like this book.
I only read it because I'm a fan of Anne Rice's Vampires' series.
I was never really Armand's fan and this book only made me hate him even more.
Armand himself thinks he is too much of an adult, but during the WHOLE BOOK his acts contradict his thoughts.
The only thing that made me want to finish reading this book was nearly the ending, when he finally realizes his own mistakes.Absolutely awful.
I'd even read VIOLIN again, but won't ever want to look at this book ever again.
Armand takes us with him through his childhood in Kiev; from where he is kidnapped and sold to slavery, to Venice where Marius saves him and eventually gives the dark gift and to Paris where he led his Satanic Vampire cult.
And it seems my book taste hasn’t changed since I was 15… And oh why it’s so hard to write about books you loved!When Armand lived in Kiev as a child he painted beautiful icons and was meant to join the monks so he had pretty religious upbringing, which shows through his life and is constant theme through the book.
I’ve always loved the chapter where Marius takes Armand back to Kiev after turning him.
Well, this is my second favorite book in the Vampire Chronocle series (the first is Blackwood Farm, then this, then The Vampire Lestat!).
The reason I love this book is not only the character (Armand, who is without a doubt my favorite!!
You're second!), but also the fact that he dictates his story from when he was a boy and how he grew up for a few years in Venice, Itlay with Marius during the Renaissance.
The Renaissance was the beginning of modern times and Anne Roce is able to capture it wonderfully.
I am giving this book two stars only because Anne Rice is a talented author, and I can’t bear to give this a single-star rating (though, honestly, it might deserve it).
I loved the last four volumes in this series, but this was a mess.
Written after a short hiatus from the Vampire Chronicles, this volume follows Memnoch the Devil, which Rice said was supposed to be the series finale.
I think because, up to this point, the Brat Prince features heavily in all the vampire novels that Rice wasn’t sure where to go with this story.
This is where I stopped in the series. Anne Rice had the habit of making all her characters extremely homo erotic from the beginning, but I could deal with it because the stories were excellent. I had to draw the line at this book though. Reading about ancient vampires giving and receiving head from little boys is not my idea of entertainment.
I, as a Heterosexual, was not offended by these passages, and thought they were portrayed rather artisticaly, and not in a pornographic manner.Here we read how Armand evolves, from childhood, to Young adulthood which physically at this point he is forever frozen in time, but continues to develop mentally and spiritually.
Faith in one's Maker, Faith in one's Friends, Faith in Humanity.I liked the Detail of the Feeding scenes of the Vampires, how at times they had a sense of empathy for their victims, and then just gruesome enough to remind one, You are reading a Vampire Novel.Not the Page turner of some of Rice's Novels, but then again, i don't think she intended it to be so.
For me, The Vampire Chronicles are the be-all-end-all of vampire novels. And while I have my favorites within the series, I find myself comparing every other vampire novel I read to the entire set. So, if you want to discuss them, go ahead and send me a note. And if you're new to the vampire genre, you can't go wrong with Anne Rice. This one is my second favorite of the series.
The Apassionata has been the official soundtrack of this book ever since Armand described how wonderful it was Sybelle playing it.
And as I have always been very fond of the imaginary surrounding the Vampires, of course it was yet a great pleasure reading this diary.
I never read Rice's books in the right order since I prefer to dive into her shadows with eyes folded.
And up until now I had had great surprises; this book being centered upon Armand's vision of Marius was - of course - the greatest.
I am curious, painfully curious to read his vision of all things I saw through the eyes of so many others.
Una historia aburrida, que no despega nunca quizás porque no hay un hilo argumental que lleve la historia, quizás porque los personajes son contradictorios, débiles y poco interesantes, quizás porque hay una combinación de todo esto.
El conflicto religioso de Armand/Amadeo/Andrei no tiene ni pies ni cabeza y sus cambios de personalidad son tan violentos que resultan incomprensibles.La única razón por la que le doy dos estrellas en lugar de una es porque Anne Rice sabe muchísimo de historia, arte y arquitectura, y eso se trasluce en sus libros.
Ya estoy aburrido de que cada vampiro es más "bello", "angelical", "hermoso" y "poderoso" que el anterior.
Y (SPOILER) estoy hasta la coronilla de que cada vez que introducen un personaje humano interesante, lo transformen en vampiro.
I was good up to about a quarter of the way into the book where suddenly all plot and personality of beloved characters fell to pieces and into a train wreck of a novel.
I didn't finish the whole thing because I couldn't bring myself to watch as the corpses of perfectly good characters where poorly forced around the novel.
After finishing Armand's origins just close the book, put it down and walk away.
After reading what I did of this book I had to go into a detox using Let The Right One In to regain my faith in the vampire genre.
Another in depth book about Armand, one of the characters in the vampire series for Anne Rice. Excellent, in depth, book that explains his wonderful character, that the other books just touched upon. Great read.
We now get taken back to Venice 500 years prior to where Armand is a young slave brought over from Russia and rescued by Marius, the ancient vampire, who takes him into his coven of young and beautiful boys.
It follows Armand's pampered life as a human living in Marius' little harem during the Italian Renaissance, and follows through to his transition into a vampire.
Armand, for the young little thing he was, really got around and experimented.This novel further follows from the religious musings in Memnoch the Devil, grappling with God and the Devil, good and evil.I don't know why I didn't enjoy this one as much as the others.
I think one read of his whole drawn-out vision involving a Russian Easter Egg will last me a lifetime.No, the best part is when Armand gives a point-by-point description of all the other vampires in the series.
And there's one description of what REALLY happened in a previous book that is probably one of the most shocking things I've read in this series.
I'm a little hesitant to reccommend this book to anyone who loved "Interview with the Vampire", just because I'm afraid that one scene will ruin it for them.My next favorite section is Armand's platonic love affair with two young human children.
------------------------Looking back after almost 3 weeks I start to remember the positive parts of the story more clearly than those annoying aspects that continue to drive me crazy for the last couple of books in this series.
I love the way Rice displays vampires.
It still works although I hope something new will follow soon because there are at least 7 more books in the series.
I actually enjoy confronting vampires with profound (religious) questions but since this seems to be the only topic for the last books I just look forward to something new.
I wish I hadn't bought that book. Anne really screwed up this opportunity to shed some light on a key character in her Marius-Lestat arc but she blew it. If only his years at the cult would have been more revealed, and the two orphans from WTFland would have been removed the book would have become a wonderful piece of fiction.
When we first meet the vampire Armand, it is in Interview with the Vampire, but we never get the story about his early life and how he became one of the Children of the Night.
In the sixth novel of the Vampire Chronicles, Rice paints a broad and evocative canvas, from the young boy sold into slavery, only to be rescued by the wealthy Roman vampire, Marius.
Marius brings young Amadeo to Venice, where he runs a vast home for other orphans, educating them on the ways of the world.
Armand es: hice esto,viví esto, los conocí a ellos y ahora estoy aquí,fin.Como ya dije el es mi favorito así que yo estaba interesada en esas cosas, a pesar que el comienzo fue difícil,pero para cualquier otra persona los dos primeros libros de la serie son mucho mejor, tienen el estilo biográfico y más acción,este libro es más un paréntesis en la historia ¿y una antesala de lo que posiblemente venga en los siguientes?
I had a lot of expectations when I first started this book.
But I have to say, it definitely lived up to my expectations.
Anne Rice has done other interviews, including "The Interview With The Vampire" and "The Vampire Lestat".
So I assumed it would just be a re-write of one of those.
But "The Vampire Armand" paints a totally different picture.
Instead of her usual New Orleans setting, this book takes place in Russia, Italy, and even France!
She definitely did everything she could in this book, she even manages a warm golden glow to everything she describes.
The rest at [NMR]: Finally! This one was good, ever more so in compare to the previous two.
By far, this wasn't my favorite book in the whole series, but it came at the right time.
And, Ms Rice certainly couldn't have put this book as third in a row of interviews with different main characters.
Armand deserved to have his story told, and I've been wanting to hear it for a while.However, there were parts that I really liked and parts I really didn't like.Take for instance the relationship with Sybelle and Benji.
Seriously, Lestat and Armand are completely different in how they act -- though I could debate that if I wanted to -- but when they go down to religion, it all sounds the same.
The beauty of the human body is always so emphasized in her books and can make the most homophobic men fall in love with the same gender; and so she can tell you about thousands of years ago - the life story of an immortal.Unfortunately, I read this book right after Interview with the Vampire because I didn't know the order.
It's not particularly tragic, though there are some characters I didn't know about, so I strongly suggest you read The Vampire Chronicles in order.Armand is a fascinating character that passed many of torments and finally found himself under the auspices of Marius, a vampire with a vague past.Those who read Interview with the Vampire has already met Armand and his vampire theater in France.
Me gusta mucho como escribe esta autora y siempre disfruto leyéndola, pero hay un par de aspectos que me gustaría comentar sobre este libro en particular que lo han catapultado simplemente a las 2 estrellas.
Estamos hablando de un libro sobre Armand, sí, pero aún así algunos capítulos son demasiado religiosos para mi gusto, incluso llegaban a recordarme sermones.
No esperaba encontrarme esto en libros de esta autora siendo sobre vampiros.En fin, salvando este par de asuntos, como siempre, ha sido un placer leer a Anne Rice.
No pensaba escribir crítica sobre este libro, pero bueno, supongo que no he podido resistirme.
Though this reunion allows Amadeo to let go of his mortal background, discovering that his father is alive (Amadeo believed he was dead) and a drunkard hurts him deeply.Shortly after returning to Venice, the vampire Santino and his coven (the "Children of Darkness") attack Marius' home, kidnap Amadeo and the apprentices, and burn the villa.
After trying to wake Lestat from his catatonic state, Armand returns to Marius's house to discover that Marius has given Benji and Sybelle the Dark Gift.
the nature of vampires themselves is even sensual and erotic.it is no wonder that Marius would quickly form a sexual relationship with a boy that, not only did he save thus giving the saved/savior dynamic to the relationship but that he also decides to mentor, giving it the added dynamic of the mentor/student relationship with which Marius would be familiar as a Roman man.Marius's attraction to boys should be no great mystery and no great shock to any of Anne Rice's readers.
Y si ya desde el principio una historia que se menciona al pasar me interesa más que los hechos principales, entonces hay un problema grave.
(view spoiler)[ Desde mi punto de vista, eso lo logran los Hijos de las Tinieblas, quienes aportan casi la totalidad del terror que puede encontrarse en la novela.
También me agradó el repaso que Armand hace de los principales vampiros de la saga porque era útil y estuvo muy acertado en las descripciones.
Los vínculos enfermizos abundan en esta saga y tal vez algunos se justifiquen porque son  vampiros,  pero todo tiene un límite.
Some time ago i decided to read all the Vampire Chronicles.
I liked everything in her books - characters, stories, all the dark romantism.
I was very inspired, and wanted to know all the stories about all the characters.After some time i've got "The Vampire Armand" into my hands.
I looked for strong character with difficult fate, but found only little, always crying boy.
Ok, i still don't mind, that it could be described, because of the age the story is about and the morals adopted that times.
That's very good for the characters to be described in detailes, when we see them first time.
