https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/185278.Essays_on_Marx_s_Theory_Of_Value
But I am now convinced that Marx cannot be accused of this since his method is so deliberately historicized and so indebted to Hegel.My second mistake that Rubin corrects was to assume that Marx short circuits the analysis of value by making value determined by labor within the production process such that that the circulation process merely validates what has already occurred in production.
What Marx shows is that the it is the political economy that allows and makes that fetish and that reification an objective result within the historical time of capitalism.
Rubin explains the various aspects of Marx's theory of value beautifully.
Rubin was probably the first person to understand the significance of the theory of the fetish nature of the commodity for Marx, although Lukacs came close.
Rubin's elegant, cogent and straightforward explanation of the theories of commodity fetishism and value (to be read in conjunction with some of his other work widely available on the Internet) makes it the perfect introduction and companion to the first chapter of Capital I - and no praise can surely be higher than that.
and a good statement of their interrelation in a way that respects Marx's dialectic of concepts here while also not trying to turn Capital into the Logic (as Tony Smith and Chris Arthur have attempted).- crucial takes on abstract labor (made abstract thru market exchange, not thru a mental abstraction or by the "abstract" quality of human labor or something).- also, like Colletti would later insist on, an important reading of Marx's theory of fetishism as a theory of the necessity of fetishism in a world in which human relations really are mediated by objects.
- arguably, he doesn't talk enough about production or the significance of value-form theory for Marx's overall conception.- he still gets caught up in some of the transformation problem stuff.
essential reading for anyone interested in Marx's basic theories.
This book is not readable by someone who has not already read Capital and come to serious terms with its implications.The most fascinating aspect of this books is Rubin's thesis that Marx's theory of the commodity fetish underlies his ENTIRE economic analysis, and the nodal point at which all subsequent theories of capitalism emerge from.
Rubin contends otherwise, and he does a damn good job of justifying his point.As a book of his essays it can mostly be read in scattered order, but a chronological reading is helpful for ascertaining Rubin's thesis.
Although Perlman's introduction reads somehow dated, the Rubin essays are excellent introduction to all those who want to go beyond basic political economy and into Marx' value theory. A must prep-read for study of Moishe Postone or Robert Kurz.
