https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97820.Free_to_Choose
Written in 1979, one of the libertarian economist(s) Friedmans' most accessible works, the clear-written and thought-provoking work does not require the reader to agree with Mr. Friedman's assertions to enjoy it.
Rather, it requires the reader to ferociously wrack their brain for a counter argument or alternative solution to their assertions that governmental controls over economic freedoms (by regulation, price and wage controls, nationalization of industries, printing money, adding programs, bowing to special interests, etc).
simply never accomplishes what it sets out to do.
In the end, sometimes I found myself thinking, "yes, Mr. Friedman, but we simply couldn't do that in 2011.
The Friedmans argue that not only does the market perform this function already, but that the government does a poor job at it.Because government "protection agencies" are all brakes and no gas, they often create terrible inefficiencies.
In that time, there are many people who die of the diseases that those drugs cure, but who are unable to take them.
In some cases, many times more people die of curable diseases than side effects could ever hurt or kill.
Only one quote - the ending conclusion in length- it is never more true than in the present:"The two ideas of human freedom and economic freedom working together came to their greatest fruition in the United States.
We have been forgetting the basic truth that the greatest threat to human freedom is the concentration of power, whether in the hands of government or anyone else.
Fortunately, also, we are a people still free to choose which way we will go- whether to continue along the road we have been following to ever bigger government, or to call a halt and change direction."
A bit dry but an absolute necessity for understanding Libertarian thought and recommendations.
A little out of date as well, though a lot of the concepts have been either been seriously considered on a national level or are still being discussed today.
While I don't agree with everything the Friedman's posit, I do understand how their belief in the market model leads them to believe in the power of the "rational" individual (if such a thing exists) over the ever growing behemoth that is the national government.I would definitely recommend this for anyone as the arguments are clearly, lucidly laid out for you to agree or disagree with.
To achieve an equal outcome one must intervene and impose a limitation on the few that succeed to run a business, and to profit from it.
At the same time, equality of process guarantees that equality of outcome cannot be realized—some will always be more successful than others in a free market.I think that this simple idea is important to recognize.
Equality of process is (as much as it can be realized) what we call free market capitalism—a system of economics that emphasizes the freedom to own and operate a business over an equal distribution of wealth.
I don't think that you can argue about free market capitalism until you've read it.
It can be disconcerting to find that you have finished a book but can't really explain what it was about much.
I can tell you that the main point here seemed to be that the free market is good, but America is (was, it was written in 1980) at a turning point and will soon have to make a decision about which economic policy it should adopt.
This book reminded me of Tocqueville's Democracy in America in the way that it seemed to cover just about every topic you can name.
Unlike Tocqueville, however, I didn't get what was said about these topics in relation to economics.
Wow!
It took me a month to read this book!!!
I suppose it does take longer to read a book for learning and (not) enjoyment reasons.
Funny thing is, I actually enjoyed reading this book too!
There are even occasional bits of humor that sneak up on you.
(This is illustrated by a reference to Cognac during an explanation on historical forms of currency).
Literally, every page of this book had a quote you’d want to slap on Facebook.
There were things I’d thought about for a long time yet could never put the pieces together.
I learned a lot that served to change my perspective on politicians.
Although this book was written in 1979, it is still one of the best books anyone can read and the information is still completely relevant to what is going on today in our country.
If you love big government you should read it regardless because many of your pre-held ideas can be dispelled as what is often blamed on the free market is, in reality, the fault of misleading big government policies.The inefficiencies of government are endless, and this book does a great job at portraying this.
This book is extremely eye opening and you can learn more from this book than you can in an college or graduate school course.
Very good book, but not great. Excellent companion to the TV series of the same name that exposed Milton and free market ideas (mostly) to many, many people.I read this shortly after the TV series came out in 1980.Read Ludwig von Mises or Murray Rothbard to compare and contrast the Chicagoan/monetarist/positivist Friedman vs. the Austrian/more consistently free market ideas.
This book was assigned for Capitalism, Democracy, Socialism taught at Loyola University Chicago during the first semester of 1981/82 by David Schweickart. It infuriated me at the time, appearing to be an intellectually dishonest apologetic for the existing class divisions in the United States. I was more impressed by the author during a subsequent reading of his Capitalism and Freedom.
Really a good book, which gives the insight of economy, free market, trade unions, education, bureaucracy, policies etc.,Also gives us the idea why we require above subjects into consideration.
Free to Choose posits the efficacy of subduing government intervention in a free enterprise market economy by rendering theoretical remedies that would alleviate government failures through more competition and personal freedom; ultimately, it would eliminate gratuitous taxes.Freidman addresses some of the most problematic issues facing our nation that are unfortunately still prevalent today such as inflation, bad school systems, Social Security, economic equity, and consumer and worker protection.
Inflation is a disease that needs to be cured, and it starts with the government.Throughout the book, Freidman formulates economics into a wildly intriguing subject because he integrates how life would improve with more personal freedom and choice.
Even though I am not completely convinced that Mr. Friedman is correct in all of his assertions, I must give this book four stars as work of literature.First the positives: Milton Friedman once again proves his skill with words and logic in this brilliantly articulated book.
While this works just fine in certain cases, in others it leaves much to be desired and weakens his arguments.Overall, a very enjoyable read that has influenced my thinking in a number of ways as I continue to search for the truth in economics and politics.
I bought this book back in the "good old days" when you could purchase a hardcover book for less than ten dollars.
Due to the inflationary policies that Milton Friedman warns about, and that he provides a cure for, a comparable book today carries a price tag more than double the price of the book I purchased.
In the book, Milton Friedman and his wife discuss the principles of the Free Market.
Fortunately, the principles discussed in Free to Choose are timeless and we can turn or return to them at any time.
We only have to choose freedom.
I love the way Milton Friedman argues.
He stakes his position and charmingly disposes of opposing views.
This book goes over several issues like welfare, minimum wage, and education where he prescribes the correct policy based on free-market fundamentals – hence the title of the book “Free to Choose.” Some of the issues seem outdated and I would not be surprised to know that even many main stream economists may disagree with him now and that if he were alive, possibly he would even change some of his views – considering the global financial crisis and the following turn of events.
The world is a much different place now than from the time he wrote the book but in many ways we are still fighting over the same issues without any progress.
Friedman dedicates a chapter to each of the major issues facing our country, including education, energy, taxes, and the environmental movement (the book was written in 1979 but the arguments on both sides of the issues still resonate today).
This book helps to define the issue from both sides, uses ample historic and international supporting examples, identifies where government is clearly overstepping and hurting both the individual and society, and provides actionable solutions to the major challenges.
I highly recommend this book to anyone, including those who have read it before.
Los chicago boys, generaron a travès de los tiempos las medidas fiscales y en algùn momento las monetarias màs rìgidas sobrepasando la dignidad del ser humano, el caso de la dictadura de Pinochet con recomendaciones de los chicago mejorò su economìa pero a costa de quiènes y por què.
Llama la atenciòn, el constante llamado a la cooperaciòn voluntaria entre los paìses pero aùn los monetaristas generaron las medidas màs individualistas y de mercado que absorben a un paìs en las èlites econòmicas bajo un seudònimo de "nosotros salvamos las economìas de los subdesarrollados".Interesante el libro, siendo la obra por excelencia de Friedman.
This is such a seminal work on free market economics that you will be surprised to hear examples and stories that you already know in other literature.
Friedman's example of how many strangers it takes to make a pencil and how no one person can make it on his own is a classic.
If the only thing you took from this book is the government's role in inflation it would be worth your time too.
If you had to put a book collection together of a half dozen of the most important economic thinkers it would not be complete without a title from Milton Friedman.
This book taught me quite a bit about economics and how the free market is capable of "working things out" better than any other system. There were some things I disagreed with, but for the most part, I agreed with this book and enjoyed reading it. It was eye-opening, the explanations were comprehensive, and the data was sufficient to convince me. This book embraces the values of freedom and the right to pursue our own destiny that America holds so dear, all the while showing that those values form the basis of societal economic prosperity.
This seems to make sense and ultimately goes back to his earlier chapter on whether Central Command or Voluntary Exchange is a better system of management.
I know he is going to get into some of this in later chapters, so I will just note this question for now.I enjoyed his response to the Hamilton argument on infant industry protection through tariffs.
It is used to justify tariffs for rather aged infants that can mount political pressure."Now that I have finished the entire book, I found it really clear and full of strong arguments.
The greater dangers to liberty lurk in insidious encroachment by men of zeal, well-meaning but without understanding."[return][return]I like how Friedman shows the numerous restraints and how, individually they seem petty, but in aggregate our quite a net.
Another idea the Friedman brings out is that socialism has moved from controlling the means of production to controlling the result directly.
No example is more effective to me than that of the railroads and the ICC.
Satisfied of the regulation, they moved on to other causes while the railroads put lobbyists and "revolving door" consultants in the regulatory positions.
They discuss how government spending, however well-meaning, can degenerate into huge bureaucracies that fail to achieve their objectives, but keep requiring huge budgets.The basic problem with a book like “Free to Choose” is that it turns into a propaganda book which explains only one side of the story.
But Hong Kong is an outlier, being a small city-state and its condition may not be comparable to a vast nation such as the United States.In the time since the book was published, the world has undergone significant changes – the fall of Communism, welfare reform, de-regulation, lower income taxes, globalization, booms, busts and, of course, massive technological changes.
So much good and relevant data in here that it is hard to believe it was written almost 40 years ago.The part that rings true is that almost every instance of "free market" being cited as the reason for some decline (think great depression, mortgage crisis, looming student debt) can actually be traced back to government intervention setting the ball in motion for the collapse.His take on public schooling, welfare, social security, legalizing drugs, the FDA, unions and other topics is well worth the listen regardless of what side of the political spectrum you fall.
This is arguably viewed as the best work of the two legendary free market economists from the University of Chicago "Chicago School" of economic theory, Milton and Rose Friedman.
But the free market approach to managing the economy is even more relevant today as we watch the failed Keynesian experiment being carried out in both the Executive Branch and Federal Reserve economic laboratories.
If you are interested in learning about the free market approach to managing the economy, this is the place to start learning.
Milton Friedman, although a Nobel laureate economist, has a well-earned reputation of being a plain spoken and easily understood teacher.
A fervent believer of Adam Smith's ideologies, Milton Friedman portrayed a compelling argument, from both a economic/moral standpoint for free enterprise.
However, the picture that he painted, in my opinion, is far too perfect.
I do not believe that the free markets are perfect.
It MAY be the best solution as of yet, but definitely far from perfect.
Perhaps there is no living experiment for the ideal government that Milton envisions, but failing to offer a balanced argument only indicates a bias, one that an experienced and respected economist like himself should avoid at all costs.
The Miltons advocate for a free market and smaller government (i.e. fewer regulations) and support their arguments with stories and examples.My Review: To be honest, it has been a few months since I finished this book and I don't remember a whole lot about it...
What I do remember is that the book is very readable and accessible to the economic layman (such as myself), but that it was a bit on the long side which led it to be a bit boring.
Still, the book gave me plenty to think about.
This is a crisply written description of libertarian economic thinking.
The arguments are mostly very compelling, except perhaps when the authors oversimplify, confuse causes and effects, base their arguments solely on biased anecdotes (ignoring obvious counter-anecdotes), or take their rationale a step or two too far.
The subsequent 36 years of history have also been unkind to certain of those arguments (e.g., tax increases do not automatically kill economic growth, and thinking that Adam Smith's invisible hand can prevent environmental degradation seems fanciful).
But by and large the reasoning is sound, and will help equip me to articulate to my liberal friends why I'm a moderate.
This is a very fascinating political economy book from a Nobel laureate and one of the major economists in the last century.
The book presents the argument for free markets and libertarianism.
The book argues for free markets by tacking several of the major economic issues in our world such as union, tariffs, social security, and consumer protection.
I highly encourage anyone with an interest in politics or economics to read this book regardless of whether you agree or disagree with it.
Friedman in many cases presents through-provoking arguments for how government control can make people and the economy worse off.
Found most of the information in this book to be painstakingly obvious, or strange.
If you've taken an Econ class or two and paid attention, you probably already know what's going to be said--especially if you had a conservative professor.
The only surprising things said in the book seem to be a bit off.
For example, his claims about monopolies being practically non-existent in early US history do not seem to match up with what really happened (uh, they existed).
Furthermore, his general "deregulation" answer doesn't seem to really address the more nuanced macroeconomic issues that face society.
Great book.
Lays out a dozen basic macroeconomic truths with data and examples and reasoning so that even the non-economist can understand.
Although written in 1980, the chapters on minimum wage, growth of government, and bureaucracy remain dead on.The book covers much of the same material as Capitalism and Freedom, but here it is better written, more sharply defined, and brought down a notch or two in terms of technical detail, making it easier for the non-economist to enjoy.My only criticism of the book is that the summing up was almost non-existent.
Each chapter has an excellent concluding statement, but there's no bow on the book.
