https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/550165.Ecotopia
I read as much of it as I could before I just had to throw it down in disgust, and this was at a time when I was young enough believe I had to finish every book that I read.
Years later he came up to me and told me that he had re-read it as a "full" adult and he now agreed with me: the book is junk.Don't waste your time, read something about real change and real activism.
Published originally in the seventies, as a series of articles and diary notes from a journalist travelling the titular country of Ecotopia, Ernest Callenbach has managed to capture a movement and a feeling years ahead of his time.
Maybe it only works because it's fictionalised, but I'd like to think we're at least moving in that direction, as a whole, slow though our progress might be.
This book gives me hope that there are more people out there who would like to see the same.
Callenbach, writing in the early-mid 1970s, imagines that Washington, Oregon, and Northern California have seceded from the Union to form Ecotopia, a new nation based on "stable-state" (today, we call it "sustainable") practices in manufacturing, agriculture, construction, transportation -- the whole gamut.
The protagonist is Will Weston, a reporter for the New York Times-Post who is the first American to travel to Ecotopia, nineteen years after secession.
Half the chapters are his formal reports for the newspaper, the other half -- in italics -- are his personal journals.
The formal reports lay out how the society runs -- this is the more important stuff in the novel.
“Ecotopians have the feeling of never being alone.”   This classic read as if it had been written yesterday. That is beautiful.That is sad.Because I could have been living in Ecotopia instead of reading it. Sexual equality, sustainability, 3D printing, FaceTime, community, guilt avoidance warfare, recycling, solar power, environmental harmony, social justice, and my personal favorite - the revision of the Protestant work ethic.All the important issues being discussed today were addressed here i
“Ecotopians have the feeling of never being alone.” 
 This classic read as if it had been written yesterday. That is beautiful.That is sad.Because I could have been living in Ecotopia instead of reading it. Sexual equality, sustainability, 3D printing, FaceTime, community, guilt avoidance warfare, recycling, solar power, environmental harmony, social justice, and my personal favorite - the revision of the Protestant work ethic.All the important issues being discussed today were addressed here in the 70s. Ernest Callenbach wrote a blue print to a better world.Everyone needs to pick up a copy.
fun because it takes place mostly in the San Fransico bay area, this is an increadible vision of the future for people who have ever had a dream of living sustainably.
California, Oregon, and Washington, seccede from the USA and become their own country.
after 20 years of no contact and a small defensive battle for independence (hard to hear for pacificts that this is probably what would happen), a reporter from the East part of the remaining USA visits "Ecotopia" (the name of the new nation), to report the new countries lifestlyle and to make reparations for relations.
The philosophies are wildly ecentric, and idealistic, but often very inspiring and uplifting.
Terrible, just terrible.
Demeaning to men and women alike, very dated with racist and sexist overtones, seemed written by a pre-pubescent idiot with zero understanding of basic human emotions and motivations – with very little political and economic acumen to boot.
This fool equates superficial sex to deep feelings, likens it to true love and thinks a strong, powerful woman would 'tolerate' being raped (and is glib about it), disgusting!Almost everything here is a stereotype of some kind (70s style), coated with a thin gloss of what passes as innovative and progressive thought.
Save yourself some time and scratch your ass for a few hours instead of reading this ‘novel’.
What I expected was a typical utopian/dystopian novel where the author focuses on describing the virtues or faults of their imagined society at the relative expense of all else; and I wasn’t disappointed.I was pleasantly surprised, however, at how well the novel read.It’s constructed as a series of articles and diary entries written by William Weston, the first American (officially) allowed to enter Ecotopia, the nation created 20 years previously by the secession of Washington, Oregon and northern California.
Tasarlanan Ütopya birçok konuda itiraza yer bırakmayacak şekilde, en küçük ayrıntısına kadar üzerinde çok düşünülerek tasarlanmış. Ama yazar, bilimle içli dışlı olmanın etkisi olsa gerek, tasarılarını edebileştirme konusunda çok başarılı olamamış. Birçok yerde ekonomik bir rapor okuyormuş gibi hissettiriyor. Bir ütopya olarak üzerine düşünüşebilecek, savunulabilecek, kültürü ve doğayı kaynaştırma fikrini temel alan ve ayakları yere sağlam basan bir kitap. Ama aynı ölçüde okuması zorlayıcı ve biraz sıkıcı.  Ekotopya'ya 2.5 yıldız.
"bear" with me.I suppose the book (for me) might be summed up in 3 words, "oh come on." From the opening scenes where our story teller rides in a "green" eco-friendly wooden train car, as everyone passes around legal marijuana and we see the people of Ecotopia wearing "loose bright colored clothing" and (of course) sandals (in winter), to the close where the same story teller, the reporter is "suddenly" repulsed by his own reflection as an "ugly American" and realizes he's become an Ecotopian himself.
His objective skepticism is quickly eroded by this green Utopian playground in which respect for living things is the society's primary value.A bit naive.
It is like Callenbach paved the way for our current silly belief in green capitalism.
The message: We can do everything we do now in more or less the same way, but we can do it differently and sustainably and green.And yet, the longer its been since I've read this, the more it works on me.
And since books that present our almost certainly bleak future as having the possibility of positive chance are rare, it is worth reading.For a very different, though hardly as positive viewpoint about future direction, check out Derrick Jensen.
Five stars for imagination, given that this was written back in the 70s.
Callenbach shows us an alternative to the corporate- and profit-dominated world we live in now.
Having read the book, I can't hear pundits talk about rising GDP and the need to increase our standard of living without wondering whether all economic hocus-pocus is hooey.
That said, other reviewers have rightly said that the book is sexist, racist, and naive.
I imagine it is, and I hate to think what influence it may have had on my adolescent mind back then.
J'ai malheureusement abandonné ce roman par manque de rythme et d'approfondissement. Le propos est cela dit ultra intéressant.
A good friend offered me a worn out paperback, that was probably read by many people.
What he sees is a eco-friendly nation, that was able to change habits, and create a new society.
The society is described with detail, the way things are connected, resources are used, technology is thought of, transportation, food, every aspect of civilization.
What made me, at the time I read it, sensible, is how much the author invested in showing that people actually changed.
That was probably the aspect that I did not think, at the time, was realistic.
Maybe people change, and quickly, if society changes around them.
The great thing about this book is it thinks through all your West Coast Succession dreams. There is a lot of fake future trivia you can relate to and all the Eco living standards are wonderful to think about. I rate it with a 3 because it is no literary masterpiece but I highly recommend it to anyone who has ever dreamed of West coast succession. Independent Eco living.
a story from the perspective of a journalist who gets permission to enter Ecotopia, a country that was seceded from the US. It is interesting to read a story of how people life in harmony with nature from a different view from what we have now. A must read.
If you have read (as I have) Charles Eisenstein's "The More Beautiful World Our Hearts Know Is Possible"; If you are tired of living in "the world of Separation" and long for living in "a world of Reunion"; if you wonder what that world might actually look and feel like - have a look at one man's vision of it by reading "Ecotopia." The book was written in 1975 and it reminds me that, as bad as I think inequality is today between the sexes and the (so-called) races of human beings, it was much worse back in 1975 when this was written from an unmistakable and often quite objectionably privileged white male perspective.
To implement the premise, Callenbach sets William Weston (the journalist with Wild West-sound-alike, sic!-, capitalist ethics) on a journey through the secessionist country of Ecotopia, which occupies roughly the West Coast of today's USA.
Ecotopia (the book) talks about technology, such as on-demand printing.
Perhaps not surprisingly, discussion on many of these topics is still raging in the Western world, and had barely started among the Nouveau Riche countries; there's much to wait until such discussion can even begin in places such as Somalia, North Korea, etc.Overall, recommended reading.
In a way, it felt like I was reading a foundational manifesto for a very specific environmental philosophy that has existed in the periphery of my understanding for quite some time.Ecotopia itself has most of the things you would expect to find in a hippy utopia; fairly comprehensive social services, emotional expressiveness, a veneration of creativity and nature, and the widespread decentralization of authority.
Overall I don’t know if it’s worth a cover-to-cover read through.
Example chapter names: “COMMUNICATIONS IN ECOTOPIA: PRESS, TELEVISION AND PUBLISHING,” “THE ECOTOPIAN ECONOMY: FRUIT OF CRISIS,” and “DECLINE WITHOUT FALL?
In brief: Ecotopia is a brilliant story illuminating a possible, bright sustainable eco-future where No. Cal, Oregon and Washington secede from 'Merica and are isolated for decades and a NY journalist visits for the first time since secession.
The writing is not that great but the story and the vision of a sustainable high quality communal egalitarian life is brilliant.
Ecotopia is my go to suggested read for all i meet who have been buried by the existing capitalist 1% dystopic paradigm and are having a hard time visualizing a sustainable future.
I very much enjoyed the way it was structured, with different 'articles' describing different aspects of life in this imagined Ecotopian society.
The technology and terminology of sustainability have evolved so much, and the language of Ecotopia has been left behind.One of the most telling signs of a future written in the 70s is the idea that "even in this advanced future society, they have not been able to eliminate smoking." To a modern reader, or at least to myself, it seems ridiculous to imagine a future where smoking is widespread.
There were several ideas expressed regarding Ecotopia that today would be considered inappropriate for a green future.
Reading Ecotopia today is like watching men trying to invent a flying machine by flapping big finely crafted wings, as they did so for hundreds of years.
Man can't fly that way!
All Callenbach's great notions are but a bridge made of popsicle sticks over a deep chasm.
Try suggesting today to someone that if he want a burger, he slaughter the animal.
If he want a chair to rest his fat ass in, then he has to cut the tree and build it himselves.
Callenbach has done a marvelous thing.
Truly a must read, though, because Callenbach surely also knew as much himself.
...Ecotopia is very much a novel of its time.
I suspect that if it had been published as little as five years later it would have sunk like a stone.
This is likely true for many successful novels though.
As a novel I wouldn't rate it too highly.
The characterization in particular is not very well done.
His struggle is obvious from the beginning and not particularly well portrayed.
The society Callenbach describes, despite the obvious problems with it, is a fascinating one though.
I can see why people would want to try it.
Look for a roadmap to Ecotopia and you'll be disappointed.
Racist and sexist. Mediocre writing. But a cultural timepiece.
Sustainability, which (the title tells you) is the overarching topic, is looked at from various angles: politics, gender, anthropology, arts, media, love, ethnicity, etc.
Although some passages could be questioned (groups, societies, ethnicities depicted in a stereotypical manner, sometimes sexist and racist although it feels like the novel tries not to be), the novel is still very progressive in trying(!) to avoid dichotomous thinking.
The fact that many elements of 'Ecotopia' not only appear strange to the protagonist but also to the 21st century reader (behavior, work ethics, etc.) shows the novel's force of depicting the 'other' and making the reader aware of alternative ways of living!
Hmm. I have mixed feelings about this book. Overall, it presented some interesting ideas and concepts, but I would say that Ernest Callenbach took an easy, whitewashed way out when it came to presenting how racial harmony coexists in Ecotopian society. spoiler alert: (view spoiler)[it doesn't. (hide spoiler)]
It was a few years old, and its board was composed of a lot of dreamers.
One of the founders was David Malpass.
That probably wasn't the word used at the time, but I never had met someone quite like David.
Being quite pragmatic myself, I never quite understood David.
I started reading this book a little while ago, and before finishing it, I learned of David's death.
I can't remember reading a book of fiction which so strongly brought to mind a person I knew, but this book is David.
Definitely had its moments, and as a "we could live a different way" story was something that resonates...particularly given the dark dark timeline we are currently stuck in.Worth reading...once.D
It piqued my interest and I was delighted when I could find this.The book is written in two sections -- first, the reporter's actual reports that he has submitted to his newspaper, and then his private journals.
Even a nurse in an Ecotopian hospital adds sex to her healing methods.By the end of the book I no longer felt as if this was a great look at how we could possibly live in an environmentally friendly way, but rather a 60's manifesto disguised as a sci-fi book.
I also have no recollection of a plot, so I suspect it was mostly there in service to the guide tour of the author's vision.One detail I do remember is that San Francisco's Market Street was torn up and the (supposedly) ancient stream that used to lie along that path was brought back to life.
In the intervening years while on a congested and chaotic Market Street, I've often tried to imagine a stream and a garden path there instead.Nice fantasy, but not really plausible enough to be an important book.­
The book's 1970s roots show through in places, particularly in race and gender attitudes, but taken all in all it's an interesting piece of work.
are presented somewhat simplistically, but the author's intent was simply to suggest plausible alternative modes of thinking about success, progress, happiness, love, work, and so on, not to lay out a detailed blueprint of how to execute it.
I'm not sure how workable some of the ideas are but they're all thought-provoking; I'm dubious, though, that the hippy-dippy laid-back attitudes to work that he describes would be capable of producing the new technology that Ecotopia relies on.
