https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41064.The_Penultimate_Truth
Don’t let that put you off, though, PKD knew what he was doing, just read on and you will find that the ones who have not already inferred are later explained in the narrative.Set in the (then) far future, after World War III, fought by “leadies” (robots designed to withstand nuclear radiation) representing the military of the east and the west.
Underneath it all Dick is making a commentary about the power of propaganda and the kind of people who write them, deception is clearly a central theme.Like all PKD books I have ever read things are not what they seem in The Penultimate Truth.
So much sadness.Anyway, I bring this up because I realized, as I was raving to EssJay about it, that The Penultimate Truth feels like one of those books from my dream.
And you'll remember that I quoted it here, and you'll feel what EssJay calls the "Dick Click" -- that frisson of understanding you get when all the weird crap PKD has been throwing at you finally starts to make a kind of sense, though I think the real Dick Click in this novel is a few chapters after this exchange.At any rate, for this PKD fan who is also a big fan of hoaxes and hoaxers, this book was pretty much a pipeful of crack.
if they were to teach pkd in school, this is probably the one they'd pick, cuz it's dreary and realistic and blatantly political and they'd get to use the word "dystopian" which means it has literary value. this is sci-fi the way normal people write it, where everything makes sense and "valuable human truths" are discovered... is that what you're looking for in your philip k. dick? if so, help yourself... personally, i'll be sticking with UBIK and THE THREE STIGMATA OF PALMER ELDRITCH, where there is fun and insanity and terror... and, oh yeah, valuable human truth...
There's something loose and floppy about PKD's writing that makes it off-kilter and unbalancing to read. Within the first paragraph you feel that the rug is already rippling underneath you, ready to be yanked out without warning.(view spoiler)[As soon as the time technology was introduced, I thought I knew where it was going: that the falsified documentaries at the heart of their civilization were either real or were their own product, sent back in time. PKD didn't go there. He went on a completely unexpected tangent. So, my batting record of predicting his novels remains at .000 . (hide spoiler)]
What is actually happening, however (and this is not a spoiler; it is revealed in the novel's opening chapters), is that the war has been over for a full 13 years, and the government in charge--via Agency-written and -produced fake news bulletins and televised talks from a programmed "president"--is doing its darnedest to keep the populace underground and literally in the dark; a captive labor force for its own devices!
Against this backdrop, Dick introduces us to a large cast of underground "tankers" and Agency men (the book features 47 named characters, as well as several unnamed), and concentrates on two converging story lines.
Having read quite a few books by Philip K Dick – more than I have listed on this site so far – I knew pretty much what to expect from a novel written in this frenzied period of activity in the sixties (he published another three novels in the same year, 1964) and I wasn’t disappointed.
The premise is an excellent one and I was a little bothered that the back cover gave it away but it comes to the surface – literally and metaphorically – very early on in the book.The tempting thing for some readers would be to skip chunks of the history that the characters fill in for us especially the discussion of the use of propaganda but this is, to my mind having read one of the biographies about Dick, the key point to the story, his message.
Nobody does dystopia like PKD.We start the book in underground warrens where the population has been living since the start of the war, which still rages up on the surface after 15 years.
We know exactly what to expect from about page two; we're going to get a book full of underground crises with a huge plot twist at the end when it turns out the war's been over for years.Except this is PKD, so we find out the war's been over in chapter 2; up above (where the rest of the book takes place), there are only a handful of people living in unimaginable wealth, off the labors of the teeming masses underground.
One of PKD's better ideas, yet it is somewhat flawed.
It is not so much a "fix-up" as van Vogt did regularly - which he claimed was as much work, if not more, as writing a novel from scratch - but rather it is an expanded merging of the two ideas.
I particularly liked the segment in which the events of WWII are distorted claiming, somewhat plausibly, that Roosevelt and Hitler were actually secretly allied in order to defeat Russia.A very worthwile read just the same.
Another fantastic book by Philip K.
Dick, but then again he is my favorite author so I might be a little biased.
This book however didn't have as much of the "mind-blowing" aspects to it as some of his other books.
None the less it was a great read.
If it had a little more of that than the book would have been easily a 5 star book, but instead I am going with 4.
Another reason is because I wish it were a little bit longer, but like I always say, that is more of a compliment to the book then anything else.
Any fan of Fallout out there? Philip K. Dick was here first, and he can still take you unawares :)The subject matter of the book is a world where people are cooped up in vaults to escape acid rains and radioactivity, in the aftermath of a nuclear war. There, they still operate factories to create combat robots and carry on with the war. Except... people live on the surface, undisturbed.
Perhaps not the best novel to begin with, but as the blurb looked similar to Hugh Howey's Silo Trilogy (which I liked a lot, as you can read in my reviews: here [Wool], here [Shift], and here [Dust]) - and yes, I know PKD's book was written many tens of years earlier -, I thought it would be a relatively "safe" way to get acquainted with Dick's works.It's a thin book, compared to Howey's trilogy, hence Dick not explaining everything.
Most of the story deals with the political side of the situation, about how the people underground are kept at bay, are still fed a lie, despite the war having ended at least a decade ago.
On the surface, which is a far cry from the cratered moonscape that most of humanity envisions, Joseph Adams is a tortured writer who works closely for the most powerful man in the world, the same man that ensures that most of the world's population continues to fester far from the sun, who is about to reach the end of his rope and reveal the entire lie for what it is.A quick read, and one that won't stick with the reader for long, but still a fun way to pass an afternoon.
This was the first PKD novel I ever read (in 1977!) and I've never re-read it until now. I had completely forgotten about the breath-taking conspiracy against the truth that had unfolded and been concluded long before the main story opens. It would now be called 'fake news'.'As Joseph Adams fitted his eyes to the spool-scanner he thought to himself, that they should have been able to remember enough to recognize what they saw on their TV screens to be pure lie.'
Now Dick can write a great pulp science fiction novel as well as he can a thoughtful and metaphoric one, all someone has to do is read Ubik to see his greatest realization of this style.
It isn't bad, but it is far from his best work and I wouldn't even end up putting it in the must read category for hardcore science fiction fans.
The theme of authenticity that obsesses much of Dick's work is front and center here, but if you haven't read it already, I would start with The Man in the High Castle and come back to this one.
@LansingLibKS 3.5 stars ... not the best PKD novel I've ever read. It's a bit dated (does not stand the test of time well). This is my pick for the 'Read a book published the year you were born' challenge for the LCL Adult Summer Reading Program. Bonus that it's available via Hoopla: https://www.hoopladigital.com/title/1...
This book does not have one of PKD's most inspired beginnings, but if you can slog through the first chapter and learn the vocabulary of the world, the story really takes off. I found it engrossing and terrifying - this is something I could see happening. It really raises the question of belief for me: what do you believe? why do you believe? who do you believe? Politics, as most other things in life, really boils down to trust. And what PKD is saying, I think, is that you can't trust anyone. Even Talbot Yancy.
Изо дня в день подземные работяги строили боевые машины для продолжения войны Востока и Запада, не подозревая о том, что в реальности военные действия закончились уже много лет назад.
Выжившие не могли даже предположить, что американские и советские олигархи давно помирились, поделили землю и правят теперь на поверхности планеты, нещадно эксплуатируя живущие под землей рабочие массы.
Янсмен Джозеф Адамс, работающий одним из официальных спичрайтеров этого пластмассового болванчика, получает от своего шефа Стентона Броуза новое задание – создать компромат на его соперника Луиса Рансибля, занятого строительством бесплатных жилкомпов для покинувших подземелья.
Таинственная операция довольно быстро выходит из под контроля, когда участников этого проекта начинают находить убитыми.
At the outset of the story, the majority of humankind – divided into two great power-blocs (Wes-Dem and Pac-Peop) – are living in vast underground shelters to survive the nuclear apocalypse which has obliterated the cities and rendered the surface of the Earth a radioactive wasteland.
Up here, the Yance-men live in luxury, maintaining the fiction of the noble leader Talbot Yancy (actually a simulacrum) and reaping the rewards of the work done by the below-ground “tankers” in the form of robotic servants, working and defending their vast demesnes like medieval serfs.
Sci-fi and hyperbole (or sci-fi as hyperbole) as a pretext or a means or a medium for the indictment of State power and politics at its best, as is usually the case with Philip Dick.
The way he makes room for these monsters in his plots sometimes could almost seem clumsy.
Which is all the more extraordinary, since Philip Dick wrote most of his fiction long before even Nixon came to power --let alone all the other similarly inclined individuals who tried to continue his legacy and generally, succeeded.
The world building was confusing and illogical and I have no idea what happened in the end.
We could have used a little more info on the state of the world and the motives of those living above ground.SPOILERS BELOWI also have literally NO idea how Lantano was 600 years old.
Even if he could travel through time, that wouldn't lengthen his lifespan.
Wouldn't they have been found 600 years old at the dig site and Runcible would have known something was up?
I get that the author couldn't have predicted digital happening, but it definitely wears on the reader's sense of plausibility/suspension of disbelief.
Polotics and messages in science fiction is great, but when there are whole chapters that feel pointless because they focus on getting the political commentary through...
Basically, you had two 'plot threads' to follow, you have a tanker (people who live underground after WW3) and the people on top who have been lying to those below about how long the war happened.
One tanker needs to go to the surface and one minor plot thread follows him and him coming to understand the big lie.
But the parts that weren't amazing just dragged and caused it to be a mixed read.
Interesting to see that The Penultimate Truth draws on three of Dick's earlier short stories, because the plot is very much comprised of three converging threads: that of the escapee Nicholas St. James; the lonely speech-writer for the dummy President Talbot Yancy; and the private detective Wesbter Foote.
There are shades of Orwell's 1984 here, with a small, privileged elite controlling the populace using falsified news stories about an ongoing global war, but this is not nearly as profound or satisfying.
Dick has a lot of fun inventing and naming new technologies – preforgs, leadies, the Megavac-6V – but as the plot grows ever more complex, the narrative gets bogged down in explanatory dialogue.
This is a postapocallyptic distopian novel based on a great lie.During a global nuclear war millions
La Penúltima Verdad no tiene mucho que ver con otros libros más conocidos de P.
Las dudas sobre si lo que estás leyendo está pasando de verdad o es una alucinación de los personajes, tan prevalente en los libros de Dick, brillan por su ausencia aquí.
En este sentido, es una buena elección para lectores a los que les gusta el género pero no les apetece tener que pensar mucho para entender una trama o unos acontecimientos.
Las dobleces metafísicas es de las cosas que más me interesan personalmente de los libros de este autor, así que en este aspecto el libro me ha dejado un poco fría.
This book has some fairly glaring plot holes and some pretty worn sci-fi cliches, but manages to redeem itself with an original theme or two. It has a lot of elements that are reminiscent of 1984 and the Matrix. It falls a bit short in that it doesn't present a very compelling or plausible solution to the problem of state-controlled media and war-time propaganda, and it doesn't have much meat in terms of character development. Still a pleasant and quick read. Worth reading if you want to get to know Philip K. Dick's progression as a writer.
Somehow this novel seemed not particularly typical of Dick. There were some oddball situations, but it lacked his signature weirdness. It wasn't as Dickian as some. It's kind of a quest/who-done-it with lots of deception and political treachery in a completely fictional society in our (then) near future, after World War III, with references to secret political alliances in World War II.  For some reason it seemed to take me forever to finish it. I enjoyed it but not wildly.
This book is very interesting because it talks about the use of propaganda and dives deep into the idea about "white lies." It truly looks into a deep level about whether or not it's better to be lied to instead of knowing the "penultimate truth" in order to prevent people from getting hurt. It also circles mainly around the corruption of power and is very sci-fi based. If you enjoyed 1984 and Brave New World then this is the perfect read for you.
I guess in 1964, 2025 seemed like the far distant future. I mean, it's a different century. I think PKD didn't expect to be read in 2015 by people who hadn't been born yet in 1964.But, seriously, I know people born long before that who I expect to see 2025.
Great story that builds to a gripping climax and keeps you guessing right until the end.
Ahí es posible ver el avance que propone el autor: la dualidad de unos vs otros (malos vs buenos) no es la finalidad de libro, como en el caso de “time machine” de Wells, sino que es el inicio de una trama que toca varios hilos sensibles como la Historia, los medios de comunicación, la ética de la muerte, la política y la tiranía.
Por momentos llegué a recordar la locura del autor y pensar que sus obras finales se movieron al fascismo extremo, pero Dick giró de nuevo la trama para mostrar su verdadera naturaleza.
Pero esto se convierte en una contradicción al momento en que los poderes sólo existen gracias a la existencia de esa masa intercambiable con necesidades que, para uno u otro, son históricas.
