https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7331435-a-visit-from-the-goon-squad
A lot of people make a big mention of the PowerPoint section of the book.
Left a bad taste in my mouth, and in the mouths of some of the characters, no doubt.
So aside from the gamahuche and other potency obsessions, there's a lot of cocaine and 'ludes and really bad punk rock song lyrics.
Oh, and a lot of really annoying, unlikeable characters who seem to substitute therapy for actually getting on with their lives.I wouldn't have been so hard on this book had it not been given such a prestigious award.
Since when did gimmicky books with no substance merit consideration for literary awards?
This the best book I've read this year.A collection of narratives -- they aren't really stories -- centered around various record industry denizens -- an aging producer, his assistant, her college best friend, the producer's mentor, his wife's brother, a publicist, etc.
And knew is the word here, for the lesson of the book seems to be that we are not the same people we were before.
And that's because the story of the book wouldn't sound like much on its own: Some people grow up.
Did you know this was coming and hide that you knew, or did it ambush you from behind?"This book, it ambushed me.
she knows just how to twist the knife.everyone has been praising this book since it came out, but all i knew going into it was that there was a powerpoint chapter and a dfw chapter (which i had already read, at greg's command, months ago).
i had read invisible circus years ago and had been unimpressed, and then i start hearing all this talk about look at me and how it is this incredible book, but i looked at the cover and i thought - "no, thank you".i am pretty sure i bought the keep, but it got sucked into one of the stacks here, never to resurface.
I attended a novel-writing workshop last week and one of the things that I took home with me was:  write to express and not to impress.  I have a feeling, and I could be wrong on this since I am just a paying reader, that Jennifer Egan wrote this novel A Visit from the Good Squad mainly to impress. Well, it won the nod of the Pulitzer jurors so the trick worked!Each of the 13 chapters is told in different points of view mostly by people who the two main protagonists, Bennie, the gold-eating reco
Well, it won the nod of the Pulitzer jurors so the trick worked!Each of the 13 chapters is told in different points of view mostly by people who the two main protagonists, Bennie, the gold-eating record producer and his kleptomaniac assistant Sasha interact with in the different parts of their lives and in the different locales: San Francisco, New York, Africa, Italy, etc.
The most-talked about Powerpoint presentation seemed to be a refreshing way to tell a story and it provided a break or a pause, that seems to me as the main message of that chapter, from the usual plain narrative.
This is the best book ever that has a whole chapter done in power point.
I think teachers who use power point should be hog-tied by their intestines and then sodomized by Mary Lou Retton (and probably people in the corporate world too, but I don't know about that first hand, but I'm sure they deserve even worse).
One. The best use of the pause in music (well in punk music) is in the Sex Pistols song "Bodies".
He deserved to be mentioned in a chapter dealing strongly with pauses and silence in rock songs.
The lack-of-heart and not-my-style writing style did not blend well with the characters or stories, which seemed like a very over-used collection of people and places:- A unhappy rich person who is not sure what to do with his life in New York City.
Not that I don't think that you can write a successful, soul-having book about unsure people in New York City.
Often, she fell back on 1) mentioning 9-11 in a vague way or 2) mentioning that the character in question had tried to slit their wrists several times in the past or 3) having a dog bark in the distance.
Or am I just shifting my fears that I won't end up doing any of the neat things I want to do into the future, the fear that time is only going to keep getting faster, and pretty soon we'll be talking about where we were on that day 20 years ago when Everything Changed, or seemed like it would.This isn't really about the book, but it is.
The road from A to B - be it in time or on two sides of a musical record - is not always in a straight line; it curves around, zigzags madly, loops back, runs into life itself - and is a path connecting the kaleidoscope snapshots of our beings that somehow will eventually fall into the beautiful but ever-changing patterns, which before you know it will fall apart into another snapshot, something different and unrecognizable - because time is a goon, after all.
Reading this book is like going into the future and eavesdropping on a conversation between two old friends who haven’t seen each other in years:“Remember Bennie Salazar?”“Sure.
It sounds like a gimmick that might be good for a few laughs, but Egan actually uses it to give us a pretty detailed portrait of the future family of one of the characters we’ve read about earlier in the book.It’s a well-written and clever book, but the tone’s a bit sad and depressing because it deals a lot with the loss and regrets that all adults have over what gets left behind as you move through life.
There are two paragraphs in Jennifer Egan’s new book,  A Visit from the Goon Squad , that heavily hint on its fundamental theme but were not at all written by the author. One is the book’s epigraph, taken from Marcel Proust’s In Search of Lost Time: “Poets claim that we recapture for a moment the self that we were long ago when we enter some house or garden in which we used to live in our youth. But these are most hazardous pilgrimages, which end as often in disappointment as in success. It is i
The novel swoops back and forth through time as it focuses on certain events in the lives of a bevy of major and minor characters created by Egan.
Rather, what it does, after telling the stories of Sasha, Bennie, Jules, and the other musically inclined characters through a polyphonic pastiche of styles that include first-person narration, journalistic reportage, and most notably PowerPoint (yes, PowerPoint), is to make one ask oneself an important question so that one may be encouraged to take stock of one's life so far and maintain or regain one’s purchase on it.
(See: Ray Bradbury's The Veldt for an example of how lions eating all of the characters can forward your plot--THAT man could make a short story stand up and sing.) I also don't really know where this book is going, other than "Life is awesome when you're young and free and sucks when you are old and have responsibilities and belong to the local country club.
And though I have always pushed through books for book club before, this may be the first that I don't finish.I hate this book.
I've made 30 + PowerPoint presentations in my life, where's my goddamn award?
Both "Tinkers" and this one are formally "unconventional" and concerned with time, yet otherwise seem to have very little to say, as they used to say.I liked the PR/General chapter.
Imagine buying a book touted as being about unicorns, with a lovely unicorn on the cover and reviews re: unicorn content, but then when you shell out $$$ and read it its unicornishness is like no more than 10%.
As Mr. Bowie says re: the goon squad, beep beep!UPDATE TWO MONTHS LATER: My mama -- a really serious reader (40+ books/year) -- tried and failed to read this.
A novel about the merciless effects of Time, even labelled as a present-day riposte to Proust, about rock and punk music, experimental, humorous and elegantly written, showered with euphoric reviews in every paper and magazine I read.
Reading about the various (mainly trivial) vicissitudes of the aging, over-the-hill rockers and their state of decay, I soon found myself humming snippets of a old Rolling Stones song, thinking about the successive generations at work alternately hitting the dance floor at the new year party when “their” music is played and staring at each other the rest of the time:You're obsolete my baby My poor old-fashioned baby I said baby, baby, baby you're out of time.
This novel snaked through my filters--put in place to keep me from wasting time reading books I'll likely abandon and pin with one-star reviews I really don't like to give--due to the following:1.
A Visit From the Goon Squad by Jennifer Egan begins with a New Yorker bored enough with her work as an executive assistant to a record company mogul to get her kicks as a kleptomaniac.
He makes a pass at his assistant, but she's too bored by him for her to respond.I don't know, maybe it's just me, but the reaction I had trying to turn 38 pages of this novel was ...
She's writing about the miserably bored adults surrounding rock bands.
Like "Olive Kitteridge" or "The Interpreter of Maladies", this is a novel made up of short stories, all of them vivid anecdotes of people surrounding the music industry (as in musicians, roadies, fans, relatives...
etc.) in precise clear-cut slivers of everyday life.
Jennifer Egan's prose is exciting, her method of bleeding one story onto the next, of building up these, what Mario Vargas Llosa so eloquently calls, "communicating vessels," is a feat.
There is an avalanche effect of moods and tones, which is why the last story, perhaps not the best in the bunch, carries with it the hefty stigma of all those that came before it.
"...it may be that a crowd at a particular moment in history creates the object to justify its gathering...
It wasn't a light read, even though it's fairly short.
It had a unique format that works equally well as both a collection of short stories and a novel.
It's a pretty gutsy narrative that requires some mental work from the reader to keep all of the characters and time shifts tight, but it's worth the effort.
More focused on character than story.You don't usually see this sort of structure outside of the Speculative Fiction/Science Fiction world.
It's nice to see some unique writing winning large awards.
The last time I found myself raving about a book as if it was the Second Coming of Christ was when I read Evening is the Whole Day in December 2009.
Luckily, here comes this book to prove to me I am not as indifferent as I would like to believe myself to be.Another thing this book proves is that you can have a best selling collection of short stories, as long as you pretend they are a novel.
Probably not Egan's fault that I didn't love this one -- I'm starting to think it's impossible for me to get behind any novel with this kind of pointillist structure.
Not that I want to be prescriptive about this sort of thing, or even use phrases like "the purpose of the novel," because what do I know?
And some of the units, like one involving an African safari (which Mike cites as one of his favorites) might have really worked for me in the context of a proper story collection, but in the context of a novel -- with all its attendant expectations, even in non-linear fragment form -- it felt inessential.
This book felt so transparent to me.
I could feel her writing and thinking and smirking and patting herself on the back.
They felt staged and cute and show-offy.
I can write a chapter in the second person for no reason and another one in PowerPoint and another one in cyber-gibberish.
And I can connect a bunch of simplistic but oh-so-quirky characters together and have them do unbelievable things because I created this faux world with the power of my mind (and caffeine) and you will love it because it includes every issue and theme that has ever existed in the history of the world while also being about nothing, which is to say, the beauty and tragedy of life but much more of the tragedy because that’s what wins awards.”This book mostly merits a shrug.
I have never read Jennifer Egan before.
I had no expectations for this book except that it carried the caveat of Pulitzer Prize Winner.
The book as it turns out is really a series of interlocking stories.
A minor character in one chapter may be the main character in the next chapter.
I thought Egan locked these stories together seamlessly making for an enjoyable quick read.
I took chapter breaks to let the implications of that chapter settle in my brain before I would take up the next piece of the puzzle.
Also like Joyce, Egan has structured her work into a series of loosely connected short stories, though Egan’s novel, or collection of short work, is more narratively connected than the earlier work.
So a visit from the good squad is to get beat up by time, an appointment we all have coming sooner or later.While Egan is sensitive to and observant of different generational identities, her central examination is of how the overlapping generations of our multi-cultural, pluralistic society works together in a dynamic group identity.Egan’s loosely connected narrative structure is reminiscent of David Mitchell, with it’s layered together detail.
It’s just added to what is already there somewhere, anywhere that it fits, like data on a hard drive.Fortunately, some faculty in our mind, our memory, can access and recall our past, however incompletely or inaccurately.One consequence is that, in our social interactions with each other, we don’t necessarily communicate in chronological order.We reveal our past selectively, and what we select is dictated by relevance, not time.Even when we are together in the present, we must part company or divert our gaze, until one day (another time) we come back to each other to complete the picture.Our experiences, our chronology as lived will always be broken, piecemeal, dislocated, even if our minds subsequently and retrospectively impose chronological order on our experiences when we remember them.

Time, you old Gypsy Man,Will you not stay, Put up your caravan Just for one day?- Ralph Hodgson“Time’s a goon, right?”- Bosco, a character from  A Visit from the Goon SquadA Visit from the Goon Squad by Jennifer Egan is a unique book which defies analysis, probably because it breaks all conventions of storytelling. In fact, it does not tell a story at all. It tells many stories, not by traditional narration but by cameo glimpses into the intertwined life of a handful of characters connected with
It tells many stories, not by traditional narration but by cameo glimpses into the intertwined life of a handful of characters connected with the rock and roll scene.There is Sasha, kleptomaniac and former junkie; who is assistant to music producer Bennie, who is struggling with a failed marriage and an erectile dysfunction.
This is the theme of chapter twelve, the presentation prepared by Alison, Sasha’s twelve-year-old daughter.The presentation is about the Blake family in general, Sasha, her husband Drew, and children (Lincoln, who may be slightly autistic and Alison, who is the author of the presentation).
While I enjoy writing from time to time, I'm not an author.
I've never taken a creative writing course, nor read any books on how to write.
I rate according to how engaged I was; how much I enjoyed the story, the characters, the thematic messages and the writing style.That said, this book bored me.
Maybe it just didn't work well on audio (Power Point, for example, is a visual medium).
Or maybe I'm just feeling grumpy.
While I appreciated the message, I didn't enjoy the way the author delivered it.
It took a chapter or two for me to hit a groove with Goon Squad and from there I was hooked. It was definitely an interesting ride through time with evolving and changing narrators - a literary puzzle which sort of comes together at the end. I did feel like I would like to have been at the concert and to have met and spoke with Sasha and Lulu and Bernie. There is a striking realism to Egan's writing that is highly compressed but also evocative. I can see now why they gave her a Pulitzer for this wonderful novel.
Because I couldn't help but feel that Egan's strongest points in this novel was her accumulative effect of story and character.
To me, I kept wondering why Egan was cutting away from her story as soon as it got very interesting.
So Egan's writing comes across as much more realistic in tone, so when we are expected to go along with these drastic jumps of time and perspective, it feels so much less natural than it already is.The other thing that struck me, was how fatalistic the story was at times.
Although a hopeful ending does finish off the book, there are parts you read about characters where you already know how it will turn out for them.
The dreams, hopes, expectations, definition of a happy and content life for most Indians are entirely different from all of Egan's characters.
It also depends on people around us because our lives are cross-wired with many others.
We learn to live with the flow of the time.
No matter what Paulo Coelho says, the universe may not actually be conspiring to make every single person's wishes come true.Another of Egan's concerns is regarding rapidly changing lifestyle, ways of communication and our dependence on technology.
And we also know that similar things have been happening for generations.
And again, we will learn to live with the times.
Benny starts his day with a coffee, stares at assistant's tits, self-scans and finds no erection.
It’s basically a soap opera, wherein the reader is invited to keep track of who’s screwing who, and try to muster some form of reaction to it that somehow ignores the fact that this book is about people with, yes, I’ll say it again, first-world problems.Oh sure, it has its’ share of divorces, suicides, betrayals, but the problems are self-inflicted, and I’d much rather be reading about people fighting real diseases than people succumbing to the psychological equivalent of auto-immune disorders.Mostly though, the writing is terrible.
And it’s fraught with clichés.Take the following extract, about Lou (music producer) and Mindy (anthropology student) on a safari:
The order in which the chapters are presented is very non-linear (covering a time span of over 40 years, some in the near future), but there is always at least one character linking each to its predecessor, so it doesn't read like a collection of independent stories.
There were a couple of things I was less keen on - I don't like omniscient narrators who present future events as pithy asides, and the New York backdrop got a bit samey, but overall I found this a very enjoyable book.
