https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/304243.The_Centauri_Device
A book of such concentrated grittiness and scuzziness you feel you missed a bath reading it. A proto-cyberpunk, Bester inspired space opera that Harrison turns into a prose poem and a long shriek of despair. Bizarre and dark, this is not one of his best but fans of his and of Banks and Reynolds will find it worth a look.
The Centauri Device is a bitter anti-space opera and a vital precursor to cyberpunk.
In the end (view spoiler)[and after much suffering Truck finds the device, then uses it to destroy the Earth and nearby stars (hide spoiler)].There's a lot going on in Centauri, and I'll mention a few things.First, the grimness and bitterness of the story smacks science fiction space opera upside the head.
There isn't much hope for a better tomorrow.(That 20th century fixation is one of the few imaginative weaknesses of the novel.)Second, and following this, Centauri lays important groundwork for cyberpunk.
Incluso podría afirmarse que "The Centauri Device" es la primera y única space opera punk de la historia de la cf.Bueno, qué dificil es siempre escribir sobre una novela de John Harrison.
Hablamos de una space opera que toma el testigo donde lo dejó "The Star Virus", de Barrington Bayley, añadiéndole la importante influencia de William Burroughs y sus experimentos con la cf de obras como "Las ciudades de la noche roja", a lo que hemos de añadir la sempiterna figura de Bester revoloteando por encima de todo esto.

The Centauri Device by M.
John Harrison is not my cup of tea.
Harrison was a force in the new wave of science fiction.
I like the golden age.
The Centauri Device has been called 'proto-cyberpunk'.
I prefer literary.
The Centauri Device seemed to me to be a second rate pastiche of the styles of Philip K Dick, William S Burroughs, and maybe Douglas Adams.
It occasionally crawled into the light of cogency only to stagger and stumble back into the garbage strewn dark alleys of scrambled imagery.
The second half had marginally less blithering than the first but that hardly justified my not having abandoned this book.
Several things I read about Harrison's book described it as proto-cyberpunk.
Escalations of the Arab/Israeli conflict has divided the Earth, which is no longer hardly worth visiting, between the two forces.
But he finds himself the most sought after drifter in the galaxy, wanted by both Israelis and Arabs because he is the bastard son of one of the last, purebred Centaurians, a race wiped out in a genocide a century or so ago.
John Truck falls victim to one of their non-elective surgeries.From 1968 to 1975, Harrison was literary editor of the British sf magazine New Wave.
I don't know exactly what it is that draws me to Harrison's writing so strongly.
I think it's a mix of his prose and his take on the nature of mankind.
As with Viriconium, Light, and Nova Swing this sci-fi Materworks novel has an excessively dark and some would say depressing, yet entirely compelling, take on the nature of man.
It is not only the darkness of his themes but Harrison's heartbreakingly brilliant prose that I really admire.
This novel, without a doubt, deserves its placement in the Sci-fi Masterworks collection
John Harrison.
I get that it’s heralded as a pioneering and influential “anti-space-opera”, and there’s little doubt Harrison has a kind of lyricism to his writing.
But for me, the latter really gets in the way of the story – which is not a good thing when yr describing a universe 600 years in the future.
It’s a shame too because the story – in which space captain John Truck, the only man alive who can operate the title device, is being pursued and harangued by different political and religious factions who want the Centauri Device for their own purposes – sounds like a winner.
This is an interesting book, because it's about a man who thinks of himself as a failure who gets his hands on a device... that is made by a race of failures. An entire species that thinks it fucked things up enough that it committed suicide. No-one knows why. Or how.The writing's hard to get through, but that's kind of the point. It's not an easy book. It's a book that hates you and doesn't want you to read it.
One of Harrison's early science fiction works, you can see glimpses here of what he accomplishes in Light. Includes one of my top 10 favorite opening lines of all time: "It was St. Crisipn's ve on Sad al Bari IV when Captain John Truck, impelled by something he was forced to describe to himself as 'sentiment,' decided to visit the Spacer's Rave, on the cornoer of Proton Alley and Circuit (that chilly junction where the higher class of port lady goes to find her customers)."
On the face of it, this is a science fiction novel about the legacy of an alien device discovered after they had been wiped out by the forces of earth.Underlying that is a story of a man caught up in a whirlwind of conflicting ideologies and grasps for power.I found the writing style quite disengaging and abrasive. I was annoyed by the use of psudo intellectual metaphores. But it picked up a bit towards the end and all in all, wasn't a bad book.
I wish we could rediscover that creative worldbuilding without rediscovering the problematic elements.This looks so much like The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy to me in some places that I find myself wondering if it was an influence of Adams' (it was written four years earlier.)Anyway, great book, lots to love, and I'm glad it was on this list!
Enter John Truck, the only living person they can find who has any of these alien genes, and a bit of a loser to boot.And so we follow Captain Truck as he staggers, vomits, and haphazardly shoots his way around the galaxy, variously trying to run from the myriad factions that want him to use the device for them, and giving himself up to one of the factions just to remove the responsibility from himself.Truck's not the kind of hero that it's easy to appreciate, but then I think that's the point: he is the downtrodden everyman, not Jack Bauer.
I thought it was worth reading but not especially remarkable.
The Centauri Device is a classic McGuffin used to drive the seemingly arbitrary plot involving the everyman protagonist John Truck and a lot of paper thin characters.
There are some great images and some great flourishes of prose.
I thought the Openers religious sect was quite original and interesting.
M John Harrison writes in a dense, poetic style which, for me, descends into purple prose all too often.
This kind of dense poetic prose can work, but it isn't easy to pull off.
Harrison veers into overwriting.
Very weird style and featuring one of the most useless of antiheroes, but towards the last third it certainly picks up quite nicely and revolves down and down into a great ending.
Anarchist take on space opera. Awesome
A drug user, often a drug pusher, he wallows in self loathing as the boil on the wart on the arse of the galaxy but the author never really succeeds in making the reader want to root for him.
The book's title makes for a reasonable assumption that the device in question will be explored thoroughly and within that, the sci-fi will shine through.
Alas, it is hardly dealt with at all with the author more interested in exploring the ideologies of the forces that harass and harangue Truck across the galaxy.
Harrison var inte det minsta intresserad av att skriva en bok med en godhjärtad, handlingskraftig hjälte som står upp för de små etc etc och istället är huvudkaraktären, John Truck, en mer eller mindre avdankad rymdkapten/lodis som gjort lite allt möjligt och mycket av det både olagligt och omoraliskt.
Upplösningen knyter samman det hela på ett oerhört (och lite rörande) bra sätt och epilogen bäddar för en fin debatt om metafiktion.Det märks att det är en New Wave bok.
Delanys "Nova", som han ansåg var ett slöseri med talang, en annan New Wave bok som lekte med genren och även den var en anfader (om än mångt mycket muntrare) till cyberpunken.
From beginning to end this whole SF circus seems intent on pushing you away from it at every turn.
The way he writes action scenes is even confusing in this book, forcing you to re-read a sentence because you realized what you thought was just another confusing description of the character turned out to be a confusing description of someone getting kicked in the mouth, shot, etc.
Which, btw, his location names sucked every step of the way, minus one whole star just for those.)
No one knows!'.
The main character passed out basically at the end of every chapter and overall he didn't actually do anything he was just passed from person to person as they all fought for the Centauri Device and then at the end you have to read (NB I couldn't actually get through) the epilogue to know what the device even does.
Pretty sure it was either nothing, or it killed everyone.
I'm not sure.
I'm just glad to be done with this shit show of a book.Sci-fi classic my arse.
I couldn't get on with this, I found I had to read quite a lot of sentences over and over a few times.
I can't put my finger on it but maybe someone else who has read it and has more knowledge of grammar than me would be able to point out why the construction of the sentences are so frustrating at times to read.
Like a car stalling.
It felt constantly like the words were going somewhere and then it would come abruptly to a halt.
I read that the author thinks its crap, so I don't feel too bad about abandoning it.
I picked this up from the library because I'd heard it referred to as a classic of Sci-Fi. The writing is certainly a cut above, but the story, settings, language are pure 70's...
and, to my taste, haven't aged well.
The blurb on the front gives this much away:  "A last-chance loner from the back alleys of space hold the fate of the earth in his hands."Well then.I suppose...
think "Escape from New York" but in space.
And "Escape from New York" is a classic, too, in its way; but it is very much aged, and not entirely for the better.
DNF at 50 pages. I forced my way through his first book, The Committed Men, and also gave it a 1-star rating. But that was a year or two ago and I'm 30 now and life is too short to skim-read your way through nonsensical, self-indulgent, drug-fuelled 1970s New Wave claptrap just because some baby boomers think it's a classic. Use it for kindling.
Harrison's exceptional prose propelled my interest in this book. Its plot was unremarkable, its characters were mere sketches, but man -- can Harrison WRITE! I hope someday to be able to put together a sentence as half as well as he can. (I look forward to reading his later works; this was one of his earlier novels.)Prose: 5 stars.Plot: Three 1/2 stars.Characters: 2 stars.
След около 50 страници реших, че дочитането на тази книга ще е само загуба на време. Има някои добри идеи и интересна визия, но стилът е ужасно дървен, а сюжетът - блудкав и безинтересен.
Mini-review forthcoming.
The first Harrison novel I have been disappointed by.
The author himself is on record as saying that this is probably his worst book, and he's right.
A space opera with a hero who gets thrown from one chaotic scene to the next in search of a mysterious Device after a genocidal war, this was a turgid slog of a read.
All the usual Harrison tropes are here but nothing seems to gel, to work.
I virtually forced myself to finish it which has not been the case with other Harrison stories.Heaven knows why this was selected as part of the SF Masterworks series.
Now, it seems, that device has been discovered, but it can only be operated by a Centauran, and Truck is the only one left.In this somewhat baroque future where Truck's ship's engineer is a Chromian dwarf called Fixx, and his best friend is a somewhat dim individual but brilliant guitar player, earth is split between the Arabs and Israelis and an endless war is in its prime.Truck is pursued by the Arab and Israeli military, an anarchist artist magician and the religious faction represented by the Openers, whose followers believe that the way to enlightenment is via installing windows in their bodies to expose their inner organs to the world and the galaxy.It's a rollercoaster ride through a Dystopian future which very much symbolises the stylistic SF of the 1970s.
'The Centauri Device' by M John Harrison is an action packed space opera that also picks up the political radicalism of 1970s 'new wave' science fiction (it was published in 1975).
While you could well imagine it as a film or TV mini series it would be interesting if a such an adaptation kept the book's explicitly anarchist politics.It follows the adventures of John Truck, one of the social and economic 'losers' of this galaxy divided between two superpowers descended from both sides of the Israel Arab conflict (warning: you might be uncomfortable with the designations 'Israeli World Government' and 'United Arab Socialist Republics').
C’est un roman étrange, dont j’ai pensé longtemps qu’il était une sinistre bouse pour penser maintenant qu’il s’y cache certaines perles, comme par exemple les deux empires, glorifiant d’un côté la sécurité par le pouvoir d’achat, et de l’autre un socialisme éclairé, qu’on ne peut que voir à la lumière de la guerre froide, juste après laquelle ce roman a été écrit (dans les années 70).
D’un autre côté, truck est un vrai looser, une espèce d’ancien junkie avec lequel on ne peut pas s’identifier, qui traîne sa carcasse pour fuir les balles à réaction des deux camps, et qui va finir par se révéler, dans une fin magnifique.
