https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13623150-destroy-me
DAMNIT WARNER. couldn't put this novella down... THAT NEVER HAPPENS WITH NOVELLAS.
Update 06-19-15: Tahereh Mafi has just announced that Shatter Me is going to be a tv show! OHMYGOD. I have so many feels! We are finally going to see a physical manifestation of Warner! WHY ISN'T EVERYONE ELSE FREAKING OUT?! It would be a huge mistake if they don't cast Hunter Parrish because he looks perfect as Warner!----- SHE WILL CHOOSE ME. October 16, 2012! I watched Tahereh Mafi's video of this saying that Destroy Me is written EXCLUSIVELY from Warner's point of view! Tahereh Mafi, you've
Update 06-19-15: Tahereh Mafi has just announced that Shatter Me is going to be a tv show!
I watched Tahereh Mafi's video of this saying that Destroy Me is written EXCLUSIVELY from Warner's point of view!
Tahereh Mafi, you've already shattered me with your first book, and now you're destroying me (in a very good way) as well!
I don't know that I understood what it was, exactly, I was feeling at the time, but I knew I wanted her all to myself.2.
I almost forget that she still hates me, despite how hard I've fallen for her.
*3.5 stars*Possibly, the reason why I am not loving this as much as everyone else – even though I still enjoyed it – is because I’ve finished the Shatter Me trilogy weeks ago and only now decided to pick this #1.5 novella up.It may not have been the most intelligent thing to do, but, in my defence, novellas are not my favorite types of reads and I prefer to leave them be, so they don’t risk ruining characters or…some scenes for me.
I know the actual answer to what he wanted with Juliette after all, since I indeed read the third book in which it is explained, but I think this is being very evasive and not really honest with us.
...from the perspective of the villain we all love to hate, Warner.But I don't hate Warner. I looove him. I didn't thought I could possibly love Warner more but I was wrong. My God,he is such a sweetheart. That scene with the dog killed me. I recently saw Equilibrium and something similar happened over there. I don't usually rate novellas/short stories but in this case I will make an exception. Full review to come.
Re-Read : (13/02/2018) I love Warner so much !, I've possibly already mentioned in my old review down here, but I'll say it again. This book is so necessary if you're reading the Shatter Me trilogy, I think that will give you a new perspective of Warner and his personal story, you can't miss this one, of course it's a 5/5 Stars for me, always Original Review: (26/06/2016)   “I almost forget that she still hates me, despite how hard I've fallen for her.And I've fallen.So hard.I've hit the ground
This book is so necessary if you're reading the Shatter Me trilogy, I think that will give you a new perspective of Warner and his personal story, you can't miss this one, of course it's a 5/5 Stars for me, always
It is so real and sincere, the manifestation of him dreams, desires and darkest thoughts, has been brilliant; I really hope that at some point of the following book Juliette achieves to know all there in the head and in the heart of Warner, because, really girls!, who would resist !.
English - Español In Shatter Me Juliette seduced and then wounded Warner with his own weapon to escape and help Adam, but Warner is still obsessed with her.For people who do not like spoilers, I suggest to leave this supplementary book to the end because it gives way too much information.
It is written from Warner's point of view and for me it is as wonderful as I thought.✨✨✨En Shatter Me Juliette sedujo y luego hirió con su propia arma a Warner para escapar y ayudar a Adam, pero Warner aun esta obsesionado con ella.
Esta escrito desde el punto de vista de Warner y para mi es tan maravilloso como pensaba.
I honestly i thought i was with Adam all the way. But reading this has completely changed my perspective on everything, i am so TORN. I cannot wait to read unravel me now..Also the new perspective was refreshing an allowed more insight on what was happened. I almost cried twice when i found out various truths while reading this..
But I always feel like novella are "oh you can read it or not it doesn't matter"...but this one is a "YOU GOTTA READ IT AND UNDERSTAND WARNER." So I hereby say: I think Shatter Me should've been dual narrated between Warner and Juliette!
Go sit down Warner.But I do feel sorry for him and he is scared (and reminds me a little of Cardan from The Cruel Prince?!) and ajfdklasd that he tries to protect things like smol children and then feeds lost dogs pastries and just...a novella of quality content tbh.
I just think the disconnect between Warner's inner-self vs what he presents to the world needed to be better crafted.
But I think we needed more hints in Shatter Me.ANYWAY.
Team Adam bitches, Warner is gonna blow you awaayy with this shit!"Its like, I can't even write what I am feeling right now.
AAHH!I was always Team Warner, from the beginning of 'Shatter Me', and I was expecting so much from this book.
Talking about the book, Destroy Me shows the side of Warner, you have never seen before and everybody will be taken by surprise in the end.
Lets just say, my mind was literally screaming and it just makes me Team Warner more.
You feel sorry for him and in the end, I was like, "Go boy, get your girl from Adam!
*lol*Anywayyyyyyy!First of all: I already liked Warner in “Shatter me” and to read his POV in “Destroy me” only caused me to love him even more!
T_TI hated to read how much he struggled and how broken he truly is and I really really really hope that Juliette will give him a chance to win her heart.
>_< His love for her is so intense that it actually hurt and I don’t even know how he’s able to get up each and every day.
I’m suddenly not sure I ever want to know.
Everyone! Quick! IT'S A BOOK FULL OF WARNER AWESOMENESS!! This book is amazing. Poor Warner - he's feelings for Juliette are so beautiful (and often screwed up, but who doesn't love a good-looking and witty psychopath, eh?!!). He's all like: And I'm like: And I still am. Yeah, Adam is a winner (no arguing there) but Warner has my heart! As does Kenji, the brilliant and foul-mouthed lad he is :DSo let us have a moment to appreciate the genius that is Tahereh Mafi... Can't wait for Unravel Me!!!!

And I know I won’t be able to meet myself in the mirror for the rest of the day.”  Story ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️This is a novella in Warner’s point of view where we see what’s going on in his mind after Juliette shot him.
We see Warner’s true and deep feelings for Juliette.
After the first book “Shatter me” it’s obvious that Tahereh Mafi wants to make Warner the villain of the story.
That the reestablishment isn’t doing a good job.
But still he tries to do little good things, kind things for people.
Writing style ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️I love Tahereh Mafis writing style so much.
Update : 03/10/2012, my psycho lover has blow me away, making my lips trembling and anchoring a dull ache in my heart. Of Warner.....I love you. Review to come Update : 6/26/2012 : I'm disappointed on the cover, I really had high expectation to see Warner on the cover :/What???????? Perspective of Warner..Fuck yeah. I want this right now...my psycho lover Warner, here I come.
★'s“Watching her talk to someone else made me crazy.
I wanted her to know me; I wanted her to talk to me.
I am so happy, I chose to read this.
If I thought I was intrigued by Warner in Shatter Me, I have fallen so completely for him now.
I loved that we got a chance to be inside Warner's head.
I love complex character so much.
I love Warner so much :D Me...“This girl is destroying me.
Of course this is the girl I would fall for.
I am losing my mind.” *This cover is so lovely!*
Warner knew his guard was abusing his wife and three small children.
My heart broke along with Warner's.When Warner searched Juliette's room and found her notebook, I just kind of stilled and stopped breathing because I knew that when he read it, I was never going to look at the future Warner and Juliette scenes the same way again.
She hated her life.There were so many similarities with how Warner and Juliette were brought up throughout their lives and how they were constantly met with emotional and physical abuse.
Warner is a complete psychopath and is literally insane...Is it weird that I like him better than Adam?
Reread. “Some days I wonder why I insist on keeping myself alive... I will give no one the satisfaction of my death.” So i am a huge Warner fan and this book was a sweet sweet treat! This explains his beyond creepy behavior in Shatter Me. Don't get me wrong, i have no problem with him being creepy and evil but it was still fun seeing his vulnerable side. I mean, come on! Who doesn't want to know what goes on in that psychopathic head of his? "This girl is destroying me. A girl who has spent the
Reread.
“Some days I wonder why I insist on keeping myself alive...
I will give no one the satisfaction of my death.”
So i am a huge Warner fan and this book was a sweet sweet treat!
"This girl is destroying me.
A girl who has spent the last year in an insane asylum.
A girl who would try to shoot me dead for kissing her.
A girl who ran off with another man just to get away from me.
Of course this is the girl I would fall for.
Oh, my dear Warner, I love you so much it hurts. (4.5 stars) I saw right through him.You see, I love it when my heart is right.. and right now it still loves Warner to pieces.Yes, he’s the bad guy.No, he doesn’t need to convince me otherwise.If I liked this amazing and complex character in Shatter Me, well now I feel like I’ve been bewitched by him, his dark mind, his fears, and his struggle. I repeat, Warner is not a good person, the world didn’t make him good, the world was not good to him eit
and right now it still loves Warner to pieces.Yes, he’s the bad guy.No, he doesn’t need to convince me otherwise.If I liked this amazing and complex character in Shatter Me, well now I feel like I’ve been bewitched by him, his dark mind, his fears, and his struggle.
This is exactly what I like about an author: to be able to convince me that I’m reading the character’s words and not her/his own.Also, I can now appreciate so much better Shatter Me, because I understood a few things I didn’t like back then:1.
God damnit Warner, you little bastard. Why'd you have to go and make me like you? “I almost forget that she still hates me, despite how hard I've fallen for her.And I've fallen.So hard.I've hit the ground. Gone right through it. Never in my life have I felt this. Nothing like this. I've felt shame and cowardice, weakness and strength. I've known terror and indifference, self-hate and general disgust. I've seen things that cannot be unseen.And yet I've known nothing like this terrible, horrible,
God damnit Warner, you little bastard.
Never in my life have I felt this.
I've felt shame and cowardice, weakness and strength.
I've seen things that cannot be unseen.And yet I've known nothing like this terrible, horrible, paralyzing feeling.
I feel crippled.
Every day I feel sick.
Empty and somehow aching.Love is a heartless bastard.”
"Because I want her.Now.Here.
I want to unzip her out of this dress and take my time with every inch of her.”
“Watching her talk to someone else made me crazy.
I wanted her to know me; I wanted her to talk to me.
“Love is a heartless bastard.” This book definitely intrigued me.
The world sees him as a detached, heartless, cruel, and obsessed monster when the truth is much more complicated than that.
Juliette turned his life upside down but also gave it meaning and hope.
And she sees him as a monster...
which sucks.“I almost forget that she still hates me, despite how hard I’ve fallen for her.
And I’ve fallen.
I’ve hit the ground.”Warner pulled at my heart strings in Shatter Me, I really hoped he wasn’t as bad as everyone thought.
⚫  THIS IS NOT A REVIEW. THIS IS A STORY. A TRAGEDY. Years ago when I was only but a young - and fairly impressionable too, fairly- girl, I met a boy. Dark and beautiful he was, intense too, and I unwittingly fell in love with him. Abominably madly, completely in love with him. That chapter of my life's been over for almost 4 years now, almost 4 years the story's been over, and still I can't forget him. I never will.✔  Reread. Again: Jan 31st/2016. Every time I reread this, I become more and mor
AARON WARNER IS THE ONE.
Just move on.I'll juuuust be forgetting you nowTo be honest, I don't even remember anything about this series apart from Aaron Warner.
Warner.Now I know what you're thinking.
Dear Aaron, These are the things I know about you, things you've shared, things you've said, and things I just know, things I will not be sharing with anyone else--I love you.
I loved you from the very first page of your story.
That's good Aaron, because I won't be the one to offer you any.
Let's pretend I could love you out of your world and into mine.
Who doesn't want to read his POV?It's brilliant and has Warner's beautiful voice narrating, so what could go wrong??!!!.....Um.....IT"S BORING!!!That's the only thing.
They're thin, easy to get through, and what's the point of reading a 100-200 page book that retells only two freaking parts of the story??!!
And they're not even the GOOD parts, with Juliette and Warner.I need a little more than that, Mafi!You know we're all crazy over Warner!I got through this in 1 day.
:)But definitely read this, if you need to spend your time other than being a couch potato.
(or ya know *cough*, get ahead on your reading challenge....;)
I love Warner, he is adorable.
Getting to see that there was a whole different side to him was good.
I loved plain old evil Warner but knowing Warner has another side to him made me love him even more.
I do believe that he loves Juliette and I want them to be together because they're actually exciting.
Warner is my favourite character and he's the main reason why I love this series as much as I do.
I preferred the writing in this because Warner's POV isn't as annoying as Juliette's but I still don't really like Mafi's writing style overall.
Reread Feb 2017 -- 4/5 stars after rereading itFirst Read June 2014 This is a first. I just gave this novella 5/5, but it's prequel (the 1st book in the series) a 4/5. So weird. Really excited for book 2!
Poor Warner :( I really liked reading from his perspective. There's a lot we don't know about Warner, and it was very interesting and very sad to see his relationship with his dad. His dad just deserves a kick to his groin ^_^Also, definitely team Warner.
Knowing that every word in the book came from Warner, I didn’t do anything except savor every single one of them. <3 <3 <3 I just love everything about him, the way he talks, the way he acts...I even love his obsession with cleanliness. No wonder he looks so perfectly irresistible- he likes to take long baths!!! (oops, spoiler! hahaha).
I enjoyed this so much?? this actually has such a well-written development of Warner's backstory and I feel much more confident about this series now. also!! major trigger warnings for physical and emotional abuse!-------------- time to see if my pal Warner can redeem himself and be the lesser of the two assholes!!!
Yes Warner, yes, I will marry you.I really liked this novella, and I'm glad I read it after Ignite Me, because I was discovering these great things about Warner at the same time Juliette was <3. And I just knew it! I knew Warner had so much more inside of him and this just made me love him more if that's even possible.
Warner, my baby, you deserve so much happiness in this world!
That this girl would know exactly how to shatter me.This girl is destroying me. That last one was just too perfect. I crack myself up. Destroy Me was a really short novella taking place after Shatter Me in Warner's POV. I didn't need his side to know I was completely Team Warner . . . but this book just reinforced that I'm exactly where I should be. *heart eyes* In book one, we got clues as to what was really going on with Warner. He didn't have the happy, pampered and privileged lifestyle peop
That this girl would know exactly how to shatter me.This girl is destroying me.
Warner's insistence in book one about how similar he and Juliette is not just a bunch of psycho talk.
obsessive (I mean in the flattering way, Warner ♥) in Shatter Me, but here you really get to experience all he's been through and the connection he formed with Juliette.
Knowing exactly what's she been through and finding a lost soul just like him inside Juliette.
Although this novella is primarily focused on Warner's thoughts and feelings towards Juliette and his childhood, as well as his search for Juliette, it also outlines exactly what's going to happen in the future if Warner's father has his way.
