https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/201341.Mossflower
Early on, before I'd read the rest of the series, it was far-and-away my favorite - for the interwoven quest and siege plots (two of my favorite fantasy structures, tropey as they can be, likely because of Redwall books), for the humor, and for the absolutely glorious takedown at the end.
It's just a damn fun read.One of, if not the, most memorable objects in the Redwall series is Martin's sword, and one of the things I love most about the books is their consistent emphasis on what the sword is and what it means.
I love the Redwall books written by the late and sadly missed Brian Jacques.'Mossflower' is a wonderful and magical book among the many he wrote about Redwall.
Many twists and turns follow in the ensuing adventures and as always in Brian’s beautifully written books; good always eventually triumphs over evil and Martin is named forever “Martin the Warrior” The Redwall books are written for teenagers but these enchanting stories can equally be read by adults who will surely enjoy them.
Brian Jacques writes exciting novels with vivid plots and excellently drawn characters both good and evil.
For this Redwall prequel, I decided to get the audio version on mp3 to listen to during my daily walks.
Martin the warrior-mouse escapes his prison cell with a buddy, and they make it their mission to overthrow the reign of Tsarmina.This is a long story (11.5 hours by audio book, 52 chapters) with lots of animals battling, lots of singing, and lots of really annoying voices in the narrative that did not translate well to audio.
No, he really does have a sword.)I grew tired of listening to the story over the course of however many walks, and I had to renew it several times from the library because I couldn't get through it quickly enough.
=================Update (2018-05-10):=================This book is still very nice, but also rather longer than I thought…==============original review==============This book is massively well done and, as such, is wonderfully enjoyable. The plot was fun, the characters most hilarious, and the setting was… you know, a setting. There is naught to define the absolute goodness of a setting that I can think of in my current unenlightened state, but it worked well with the other aspects of the book.
Martin is a true hero and an enjoyable protagonist, both supporting characters and villains are well-developed and interesting to read, Martin's journey provides our first glimpse of Salamandastron, and the book provides much backstory to Redwall and creates a prime jumping off point for the many, many sequels and prequels that follow.Where I sometimes feel frustrated by Redwall, Mossflower is truly a delightful, enjoyable read from beginning to end.
These pieces of backstory do provide a more complete world, and in the following books Jacques will tempter, contradict, and expand upon them, but for now they do feel forced.Mossflower really is one of my favorite books in the Redwall series to come back to and reread.
This next Redwall book and one of the most famous is starting with Martin the Warrior again.
After he had defeated Badrang the stoat, he is now is mossflower area which is under the rule of Tsarmina the daughter of Verduaga who also had a older brother Ungatt Trunn in another Redwall book series.
It reminds me sometimes wehn presenting something to other people, it takes courage becaue i am not that kind of person who like to talk openly with others.
Even looking at the most uncommon people, there is some kind of courage within them.
I can't tell you how many times I read his first few books, how eagerly I awaited the new hardcovers each year.
I can't say I've read them all-- the point came, round about book seven or eight, when I'd figured out the formula, and they started getting old.
But for a hearing audience-- which, after all, Dickens shared with Jacques-- those redundant adjectives and frequent motifs create strong, familiar images.
This book leans less heavily than some of the others on feasting, but if you've read any of these at all, you'll remember the food.
Pour a 40 of elderberry cordial, and read one of these to a nine-year-old.
2nd Read. Nostalgic fun read.
Once Martin joins the resistance, they may finally have a chance to win their freedom and drive Tsarmina out.I loved the Redwall series as a child, and re-reading the first few books as an adult has been a very nostalgic experience for me.
(Full disclosure: I've read most, but not all, of the twenty Redwall books.) There's usually a casual mention of a "good" predatory creature, which in Mossflower is portrayed by the wildcats Gingevere and Sandingomm, but that hardly feels inclusive.
And if you didn't partake of this wonderful, creature-filled world, then you are seriously missing out.Of all the countless stories Brian Jacques told, MOSSFLOWER is my favorite.
Most likely because it predates REDWALL, and I'm a super sucker for good world-building.
The quest is about finding a warrior fit enough to take down Tsarmina--the wildcat patricide who lords over Mossflower woods.
The first REDWALL book made a pretty clear distinction between the good guys and the bad guys.
Martin could choose to use the sword to rule over Mossflower like his enemy does, but he elects to help others instead.
Book 2 in the Redwall series (prequel to Redwall)In this prequel to Redwall, we meet Martin the warrior and understand how his heroic deeds, as well as his ability to form alliances, leads to the creation of Redwall Abbey.
Tsarmina is the cruel and mentally unstable ruler of the Kotir.When Martin the Warrior has a run-in with Tsarmina and ends up in the Kotir dungeon, he meets Gonff the mouse thief and they strike up a friendship that carries them through many adventures.
Once again, Jacques creates a believable world peopled with well-drawn characters that will stay with you long after you turn the last page.This series is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED for fantasy readers of all ages.
This will always be one of my favorites. We first met in the Florida library when I was 10. We reunited when I was 13 and facing my own wildcats in the form of high school bullies. We then parted ways for over a decade when I was 18, until last year. Martin & Gonff are childhood heroes with a tale that translates for any age group.
Lo, she went a wandering in W H Smith's and her gaze chanced upon Mossflower, the first and greatest of her Redwall loves, her favourite childhood book, her original copy having long since departed for the Dark Forest, thanks to a combination of some overenthusiastic borrowers and one too many accidental dunks in the bath-tub.
Because it's bloody fantastic.Mercifully free from the Early Instalment Weirdness that plagues Redwall on re-reads but without any of the tropes that bogged down later books in the series,those that were almost suffocated by Dibbuns, songs and prophecies, Mossflower is a smart, exciting page-turner stuffed to the gills with likeable characters.
Sure, he gets a Disney death, but let's cut him some slack because this book is dark.
This is the second book in the Redwall series, but it is actually a prequel to Redwall.
It is the story of how Martin the Warrior, a legendary hero, came to Mossflower Woods.
Tsarmina, an evil wildcat, is ruling the land with an iron fist.
There is no Redwall Abbey here.
It's a story about how the good and honest creatures of the woods set out to free themselves from the tyrannical rule of Tsarmina.By the end of the novel, you forget that mice can't talk and that badgers don't wield swords.
I highly recommend this fun, magical series...
After finishing Redwall, I wanted more. The prequel Mossflower seemed a pretty reasonable choice. I did enjoy the read, nevertheless, while the writing was excellent, the storyline was not as good as Redwall. Jacques still does an amazing job in creating a fascinating world of woodland creatures, but the story just didn't grab me the way I hoped it would.
2.5 stars
Took its sweet time getting started, but it sure was epic once it did! Also, Gonff is amazing.
Not too bad but not good enough... 3star
Like Martin the Warrior, the audiobook features a full cast including the author Brian Jacques who is a masterful storyteller and his radio experience is clearly evident.
I always feel like I'm reviewing the entire series when I review a Redwall novel but here goes.
This book also features Gonff who is one of my favorite characters in the series.
I also tend to enjoy the prequel stories because of Martin who has a pretty fascinating life story and ultimately drives the entire series through his spirit which serves as a symbol of goodness.
I didn't really connect to this one as much as the original. Even though I can't remember as much as I'd like from the original Redwall, having read it 6 years ago now, I distinctly remember loving Warbeak and couldn't really say the same for any particular character this time around.
Brian Jacques did such a long and great series of short books geared tower young adults/children.
It was a series with fascinating animal characters who had general but interesting personalities, and a through line of certain themes and relations between the books.
Martin the Warrior is the most famous of characters, and he becomes a messiah like figure later on, his ghost appearing in some cases.
The Badger Lord and his dangerous hares are also major characters in the books, so this is one of the earlier starts to them.
Later in the series he does redeem some of the evil species characters, but it’s rare.
In comparison, I did not enjoy its prequel Mossflower quite as much, which was disappointing.Although the second novel that Jacques wrote about his woodland creatures of Mossflower County is certainly full of action and adventure, I could not take seriously the threat posed by the self-involved cat Queen Tsarmina and her incompetent army of rats and stoats.
Of course, some might find the more light-hearted tone of Mossflower enjoyable, but part of what I really enjoyed about Redwall was the combination of the adorable woodland creatures with the truly sinister villains.Additionally, the characters were not as well-developed in Mossflower as they were in Redwall.
So when I was given a uni assignment that required rereading a book we had strong memories of as a child, I figured it was about time I gave these a go again.Yeah, 29 year old me didn't adore this.
i.e. mice are more the size of squirrels??- There were a lot of Lord of the Rings parallels - a warrior with a great destiny and a broken sword, a group of three on a quest to find missing friends, a mysterious cave-dwelling beastie.- Is there actually a religion involved in the various abbeys that crop up in the story?
Because if there are robe wearing Brother/Sister mice and an Abbot/Abbess, you'd think there'd be a religion.
Awesome!What I didn't like• so much death, I counted most of them it added up to 45 (there was more then that!)• seriously when thy die they go to the "Dark forest" that sounds creepy•what was Angulor's (the golden eagle) purpose, to eat the other characters?
These are just a few of what I did or didn't like but they are the main ones.
I tell you one thing though I can finally relate to that pin on Pinterest (first picture) I'm really starting to like this character (next picture) and....
They say you should never go grocery shopping when you are hungry and I'm inclined to think you should also NOT write a book while you are hungry.
I really think the full paragraph descriptions of every freaking lunch could have been omitted without hurting the book in anyway.Other than that frankly, the book is slow and badly paced.
Every time some excitement starts the author cuts away to another set of characters having boring adventures for several pages and by the time he returns to the excitement, the reader has either forgotten or doesn't care.
Recently I decided to start over and hopefully read past where I'd stopped in the series, and I have to say I knew I would still like them, but I was surprised by how much.
This book is great for young readers--the imaginative characters and setting is perfect for kids--but the wonder, nostalgia and excitement transcends to adult readers as well.
Honestly a must-read.
Even though this book was written second, I recommend new readers start with it (it's a prequel to Redwall).
I read it both ways, starting with Redwall when I was young, and this time, starting with Mossflower, and I definitely think Mossflower should come first.
Great story of suspense and action. The character development worked great as well as the action scenarios made sense. I look forward to reading more in the series.
3.5 stars.
Pure nostalgia bias
A nice followup to Redwall that gives a bit of history behind the settings of the series. I love that Jacques isn't patronising and kills characters off without any undue ceremony.
