https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/920883.The_Sands_of_Windee
Loved these books when I was a kid, and it's no different now... I have noticed how many people have reviewed the un-PC language negatively. Unfortunately it is a writing of its time and the world has changed. Period pieces need to be read without judgement of this type.
This wonderful, unassuming movie, with its superb acting and beautiful photography, which I discovered about a half year ago (and which you may watch online for free, f.i. at "themoviebee.to"), was why I wanted to acquaint myself with Arthur Upfield's writing in the first place - it gives you a realistic "feel" of the rough life in the Australian outback during the 1920s, where his series featuring Poirotesque Napoleon Bonaparte aka Bony ("I am Australia's best detective") are set - 'the landscape is vast and barren, and the hot, sweaty men make you feel this horrible environment ...
I like Detective Inspector Napoleon Bonaparte, the part-Aboriginal, part-Caucasian detective of the outback who does as he pleases and has a great respect for his detecting abilities. He is a little arrogant about his abilities and his success rate, but he is so nice at the same time, that I can forgive him his arrogance!I listen to these as audiobooks, and the narrator, Peter Hosking, has a pleasant voice to listen to. I will look forward to “reading" the next in the series.
His description of Bony discovery of the remains of Marks is fascinating.Readability:It is often long-winded and old-fashioned so it slows down at times but overall it was a good read.Sub-plots:The sub-plots are all woven into the fabric of the story eg the love affair between Maureen Stanton and Dash; Bony’s relationships with the local Aboriginal people; the historical relationship between Stanton Snr and Mrs Thomas.Read another by same author?MaybeNote: The Murchison MurdersThe method Upfield describes of disposing of a body so that no remains could be found came from a friend of his.
This book was published 11 years before Christie's The Body in the Library, and yet Bony makes several references to it!
He talks about how "real murder mysteries" don't have a convenient body sprawled on the library carpet, and says several other things that made me feel like Upfield had already read that Miss Marple tale.
One quibble, however, was with the "American" character of Dot, who talks like a Cockney all the time.
Odd.Like Christie, Upfield pulls an unconvincing rabbit out of his hat to finish the book, showing that all the aces from three packs of cards were hidden up his sleeve.
It is difficult to review this book without lapsing into spoilers for those who have not read more of the Bony series.This story gained notoriety when it was first published because of a similarity to an actual case in Australia at the time of its publication, that being a case labeled as "the perfect murder".
We did not feel this was one of the best of the Bony mysteries, but it is certainly worth the read, especially if one has become enchanted with the character and his amazing detecting skills throughout the vast country of Australia.Bolinda Audio began making these unabridged audio recordings read by Peter Hosking available just a few years ago.
This is definitely a level above average. It does use words like nig, and the mixed race protagonist does exhibit disdain for the Native intelligence while admitting their virtues, but for the time it likely is far more enlightened than all but a few Australian writers.In some ways this seemed very perceptive and modern.
This is the 2nd Bonaparte novel & it is rather weak.
It is also probably the most dated of all Upfield's books when dealing with Aboriginal people.
But it is 1931 & times have definitely moved on.So let's ignore this aspect & look at the story: there is at least one time when Bonaparte discovers an important clue that will be informative to the reader.
That's Ok, because in general, much of the work is fun, entertaining & light.Although, I shall continue to read Upfield, this one won't be recommended to anyone.
"I believe," he said slowly, in a manner which implied that he believed nothing of the sort, "I believe that all great detectives in fiction, Mr. Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Thorndyke among them, never divulged their progress in a case until it was finished, so far as they were concerned.""But, damn it, we are not book detectives!""Your objection is perfectly legitimate, my dear Morris.
On the other hand, although I am not a book detective, neither am I an ordinary policeman in plain clothes, despite my official rank and connections.
The answer is simple.
Having read these books many times over many years, the insights into the way of life in the bush at that time have always fascinated me and Bony's detecting skills are amazing.
On this occasion I found the racist attitudes and language disturbing and had to accept that that was the way it was back then.
I also found Bony's attitude to Marion puzzling and came away thinking that this was a product of a very paternalistic attitude towards aboriginal people on the part of the author.
In spite of the fact that these books are a product of their time, I have always loved them.
I didn't expect this crime novel to be as good as it was. A dead body on a sheep station somewhere the other side of Broken Hill. Enter Bony, part-Aboriginal maverick detective, as self-assured as Sherlock Holmes. Yes, it's of its time and Upfield can seem patronising toward Aboriginals, but at other times his unabashed admiration of them shines through. In fact, it's such a good whodunnit, the murder method in The Sands of Windee was borrowed by an acquaintance of Upfield's in a real life murder spree. Sentus Libri 100 word reviews of overlooked books.
Published in 1931 and the second in a series of mysteries featuring Detective Sergeant Napoleon Bonaparte.
Bony's mother was aboriginal and his father was English and he was educated as an English/Australian boy would have been.
But as an adult he felt the call of the bush.
So he joined the Queensland constabulary and he is the best detective they have.
The ambiguity they feel and that Bony has to deal with is an important part of this story about a man traveling south through the bush who ended up missing, along with his money.
"Huit volumes essentiels dans une collection (Grands Détectives, chez 10/18) qui ne l'est pas moins.Huit romans signés Arthur Upfield, père d'un des flics les plus attachants du genre. Le dénommé Napoléon Bonaparte, Bony pour les intimes, est moitié blanc, moitié aborigène. Intuitif et méticuleux, il est également rompu aux astuces de la vie dans le bush et aux subtilités de l'interprétation des rêves, symboles et autres présages, dans la description des paysages grandioses de l'Australie (chaque roman se situe dans une région spécifique) et des mœurs rudes de leurs habitants. Bony s'avère un guide idéal. et Upfield un grand maître."
This is the second in the Arthur Upfield "Bony" series of books. As expected, some of the racial references are rather offensive viewed through today's eyes. I do think the book as a whole is better than the first one, but there certainly seems to be a shift in gears during the last 3 or so chapters, especially when Upfield describes a wildfire, and the attempts to put it out. It's very exciting, very descriptive, and one gets the sense that the author is most at home describing details of the landscape.
Interesting for the view it gives of life in the Australian outback in the first half of the 20th century, but not terribly compelling as a mystery. The author is overly parsimonious with clues, letting his protagonist learn facts that are not shared with the readers until the end of the book. The book also contains a good many ethnic stereotypes that are jarring to modern sensibilities.
If you look up the Murchison Murders, you will read about the real life murders committed in WA in the early 1930s. The murderer was one of a number of workers among whom Upfield canvassed the question of how to completely destroy a corpse. He wanted that to be the central premise of his second Bony book. Another good read - a real page turner.
Another fun Australian mystery by Upfield featuring his part aboriginal detective Napoleon Bonepart, "Bony". He is able to read signs and evidence in the "outback" not understood by Aussie police, and thus he is able to solve the mystery of a missing man. Lots of interesting details about the desert and how different people do or don't read the circumstances facing them.
I have read many of the Napoleon Bonaparte series and some of them several times and I think that "The Sands of Windee" is one of the best that Arthur W. Upfield has written. However, the reader has to bear in mind the time that they were written. The have some of the attitudes of the time. It is a good book and I enjoyed it very much. I would recommend it.
3.5 starsThis mystery series was written in the 1930s and stars Inspector Bony, half white and half Australian aborigine. The glimpse into the culture of the time is priceless.
About a third of the Bony books are on Audible. Excellent narration. If you are looking for a classic mystery in an unusual setting check these out.
A lengthy novel, the first of the series, longer than other Bony novels, with more extraneous detail the incidental characters.
Is this a good thing?
Well it took me close to 90 pages before I could really "get into" the story.
Normally I find myself hooked from the first page but my mind kept wandering due to the lack of the main character's appearance in the early chapters.
The author seems to have adopted a different style in this book.
It just doesn't flow along so smoothly as for example in "Venom House" or "Cake in the Box'.
Not the best Bony. Think Upfield was still finding his straps!
Our protagonist is a man whose mother was aboriginal, and whose father was British.
He's repeatedly called a half-caste during the 20 pages of the novel I read.
Here's an example from the first page:"He walked with the soft tread of the Australian aboriginal.
His mother had given him the spirit of nomadism, the eyesight of her race, the passion for hunting; from his father he had inherited in overwhelming measure the white man's calm and comprehensive reasoning; but whence came his consuming passion for study was a mystery."Yes, I know, in the 1930s this racial stereotyping was the norm.
The second of the Bony novels, I found this lest satisfying than the first (or the few later ones I have previously read). When Bony sees a photograph of the abandoned car from which a man went totally missing he spots something that the local white police couldn't be expected to recognise: an aboriginal sign making the area taboo because an white man had been killed there. Despite the 2 month gap between the disappearance and him seeing the photo, Bony is determined to solve the crime.
Bony returns to the Outback to track a government official who disappeared two months ago. He likes the owner of Windee and his daughter very much, but they have a lot to hide. Bony is close on the heels of a killer when Nature in all its awesome power steps in. And Bony still has to decide what to do with his knowledge.
I didn't notice the publish date when I started 'Sands of Windee'. It's an interesting side effect of ebooks, I suppose. So I wasn't prepared for the awful racism that underlies the tale. The mystery is interesting, with great feeling for setting, but the attitude toward Native Australians is painful to read, and the pacing much slower than modern readers are used to. So it averages to a 2.
As is true of many mysteries from the 1920's and 30's, the crime and its solution was somewhat contrived and some of the language was racist. However I enjoyed the look at life in the outback of Australia during that time and the charactor of Napoleon Bonapart which was the detective's name.
Another great Australian adventure of Insp. Napoleon Bonaparte
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/10222915
Bony is a fascinating character, but I thought the plot was kind of weak. I look forward to reading the next book in the series.
