https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/300841.A_Mencken_Chrestomathy
But too bad anyway.amusementI enjoyed the first three chapters: Homo Sapiens, Types of Men, Women.
It's a long one, opening like this:A man's women folk, whatever their outward show of respect for his merit and authority, always regard him secretly as an ass, and with something akin to pity.
The substance is a poor mountebank.Yes, there is that four word opening, "A man's women folk".
The common person is not capable of making good decisions about important things.And I guess that I like to think of myself as an optimist about humans.
My father was a big reader and he would, on occasion, ask me to get THE MENCKEN CHRESTOMATHY out of his study so he could read a passage to me and my brothers.I'm fairly certain Mencken compiled this himself and that it was published shortly before a stroke ended his ability to write.
Mencken the Darwinist who had made Williams Jennings Bryan a laughing stock in his Scopes Monkey Trial reporting, was, by the time World War Two started, an archconservative who publically reviled Roosevelt and who chose not to write a word about the Nazis.
"A Mencken Chrestomathy" was originally published in 1948, when H L Mencken was 68, shortly before a stroke ended his writing career. It's my favorite collection of Mencken's writings, possibly because he selected the contents himself. He had been a journalist, literary critic and cultural gadfly for many years, and much of his best work is here. It's perfect bathroom reading!
The difference is that Mencken never made his mark with the kind of epochal novel like Huckleberry Finn that Twain did, contenting himself with a career as a high-minded literary critic and belletrist.
He personally selected all the articles that appear in this volume, divided into categories (religion, music criticism, politics, literature, etc) and his range is as impressive as his erudition.
People need to read more Mencken."If, after I depart this vale, you ever remember me and have thought to please my ghost, forgive some sinner and wink your eye at some homely girl."
What can I say that critics haven’t been saying about him for a hundred years? Mencken lacerates more nonsense and makes more sense--common and uncommon--than everyone else that has lived or is to be born. Possibly the most respected journalist of all time. Father of muckraking, destroyer of popular myths, creator of unpopular truths. If you don’t like H.L.M. I probably won‘t like you.There, I bet no one said that before.
Will any of them utter a word, however obvious, that will alarm or alienate any of the huge pack of morons who cluster at the public trough, wallowing in the pap that grows thinner and thinner, hoping against hope?Answer: maybe for a few weeks at the start… But not after the issue is fairly joined, and the struggle is on in earnest… They will all promise every man, woman and child in the country whatever he, she or it wants.
When one of them demonstrates that twice two is five, another will prove that it is six, six and a half, ten, twenty, n.In brief, they will divest themselves from their character as sensible, candid and truthful men, and simply become candidates for office, bent only on collaring votes.
Mencken uses the word Chrestomathy to mean a selection of an author's writings chosen by the author.
The original strains, according to every honest historian, were extremely corrupt." What could that even mean?I find him similarly close-minded in his snobberies: jazz is an "infernal din" for idiots and barbarians; all culture aside from classical music is pigeon-holed under "The Lesser Arts"; and he has a peculiar longing for society to be enriched by an intellectual elite, with the kind of freedoms and invention, but also the kind of feudalistic powers, of European aristocracy.
His writing is beautiful and his ideas well thought out and expressed, though I disagree with most of them. I'm giving the book two (perhaps two and a half) stars because, literarily speaking, it was lovely. I can not, however, say that I enjoyed reading it. He is unendingly scathing, caustic, and cynical. The back cover promised "edification and amusement," and while I was occasionally amused, I was certainly not edified or uplifted in any way. I can't imagine how anyone could be uplifted by his bleak and condescendingly arrogant outlook on, well, everything.
[...] If you wish to understand others you must intensify your own individualism."For Both Mencken and Wilde good criticism is an original individualistic work of art rather than a derivative review.
Celebrate your influences!When you have an excessive need to present yourself as an original individual you prevent yourself from being able to learn.The value that Mencken and Wilde place on originality causes both men to question the point of teaching and learning for anyone other than the individualistic critic:OSCAR WILDE: The development of the race depends on the development of the individual, and where self-culture has ceased to be the ideal, the intellectual standard is instantly lowered, and, often, ultimately lost.
The cumulative effect of reading Mencken is not unlike that of listening to Beethoven, whom Mencken adored; he was the most musical of writers (he was an amateur musician himself) not in the sense that he was sweet or pretty, but in the sense that his prose had a rhythm, a beat.
This rollicking appreciation of Beethoven is a case in point:"It was a bizzare jest of the gods to pit Beethoven, in his first days in Vienna, against Papa Haydn.
What lifted Beethoven above the old master was simply his greater dignity as a man.
But the feelings Beethoven put into his music were the feelings of a god.
mencken was a cynical man.
he covered the scopes monkey trial with acerbic jabs at southern fundamentalism.
he hates zoos and democracy and jesus and abraham and stupid people and women and italians and irishmen and germans and politicians and teachers and critics and soldiers and soldier's wives and babbits and non-babbits and children and adults and marriage and newspaper editors and newspaper readers and georgia and prohibition and telephones and ceremonies and eastern religions and more!his low opinion of the average man is manifest in everything he writes.
as nearly as i can tell, he hates everyone else ever.
Mencken is a master of metaphor and a wonderful writer, but he is very caustic, and dangerous in large doses. I highly recommend reading Lloyd-Jones' "Spiritual Depression" along side of him.
Mencken is at his pagan best when he is talking about the differences between men and women, bachelors and married folk. There are some laugh out loud lines in this book that make it worth the read. Very Good.
He was a devout classist, sometimes marking nine or more gradations of men (usually men) from the first-rate (a very, very select few) down through the ninth-raters and beyond.
Mencken's humanity was a pyramid and for him only the tip-top really mattered at all.
But he could see Mark Twain was one of America's most significant artists, an artist for the ages, when many others could not, or could not see past Twain's public shtick.
I think perhaps he loved the past so much he was in some ways simply blind to the future, and thus by his own standards he was not a first-rate man.
I would not recommend reading from start to finish. There are certainly some gems of genius here, but at least in this version it felt like serious digging between them. Additionally, it would be much more useful for a more cultivated collection with editorial headers to provide additional historical context. I felt many jokes and references were lost on me without such a guide. Recommend reading sections you've selected in advance.
(4.5 stars).If Mencken was a blogger in today's age he would be #1 by any standards. His writings epitomize an era and journalistic style at their best. You may not always agree with his views, but you'll never be bored reading Mencken, and you'll come to relish his one-liners and aphorisms just as those of Churchill, GB Shaw and others.
Mecken was a polemical journalist of the first rate, although he did not always have the right position he knew how to make his position known. His writing is charming and clever, I am particularly fond of his bold and humourous statements about the nature of government.
For a Nietzschean, Mencken was quite humorous, as well as culturally insightful. Except he suffered many of the same problems Nietzsche suffered from-- a man without a chest, complaining about other men who lacked chests.
This guy is funny. I was bored, but that was my fault.
If I had to live with one book, this would be it. I'm a huge Mencken fan, and there's plenty of his outside of this book that I need access to, but this is a great place to start.
A Mencken Chrestomathy is choice selection of H.L. Mencken's previously out-of-print writings. That alone is all that one needs to know.
It is fun when he is on your side, and a bit if a squirm when he isn't.
There is some "fallen out of use" vocabulary that take a little getting used to; using cheese-monger as an insult for example.
He loves to call things "buncombe" (old way of saying bull), he refers to people as "poltroons" (cowards), and he likes the word "bounders" (another way of saying cad or dishonorable man).
It appears to be a word for potato, so a fancy way of saying Vodka?
My favorite parts were the bits about men and women, the piece about the ancient Greeks being overrated, pedagogy, quackery, and music.
Meh. “Curmudgeonly” is a good word to describe Mencken’s writing. Too much curmudgeon in one sitting just becomes annoying, so I’d recommend never reading more than a paragraph at a time. Too much whining for the sake of whining and too much “oh the cleverness of me” with not enough to say.
Some of his were unforgettable.
After, nay, while, reading this book, I understand much better Hitchens' regard for him, Rothbard's recommendation of him, and, though I'm certainly unequipped to answer his heredity or place among prose writers, he seems guilty of what accused.Much of the book will have you laughing out loud and what doesn't will, surely!, have you in awe of his style, though the work is not flawless.
I use less quality not in reference to bad writing, but writing that lacked the humor, the wit, the insight of his very best offerings.I suppose such a criticism is simply one of an anthology that could be prided for thoroughness, for this chrestomathy is certainly that.
Smart and funny collection.notes:15..in-laws19..animal vigor32..intermezzo on monogamy41..war with women63..adultery is one of nature's devices for keeping the lowest orders of men from sinking to the level of downright simians; sometimes for a few brief years in youth, their wives and daughters are comely...and now and then the baron drinks more than he ought....double standard explained126..cops and their ways...the 3rd degree145..government: a conspiracy against the superior man201..historians..3rd rate men216..eminentissimo281..Valentino ..
touch of fineness289..aimee McPherson..1926..time-honored evangelical hokum293..the most valuable of all human possessions, next to an aloof and sniffish air, is the reputation of being well-to-do.
This 627-page tome may also be called "Mencken's Greatest Hits." It is a collection of essays or articles chosen by Himself.
H.L. Mencken (1880-1956) was an early twentieth century author, columnist, critic, and essayist.
The selections here, 241 of them, cover the gamut of human endeavor.
He may well be called a curmudgeon (and he's carried in The Portable Curmudgeon series) with a huge vocabulary, and an elitist as well.
A dictionary should be at hand while reading him.
Mencken is not a light read, doesn't suffer fools gladly, and is thoroughly enjoyable.
H.L Mencken is one of my favorite authors because he is honest in his assessment of institutions and humanity in general.
Chrestomathy is a collection of short essays, thoughts, that Mencken took from several of his full length collections.
A journalist, a philosopher, and a social commentator, Mencken plays the parts well.
However, I would not claim that the book is for the fainthearted or easily offended, not that Mencken would care one way or the other.
In the spirit of Mencken, I must retract my previous statement: if you are fainthearted and easily offended...this is just the book for you!
I barely skimmed the surface of this one, so I will simply say that a.) it's always comforting to come across folks who are ten billion times the cantankerous malcontent that you could ever hope to be and b.) it's inspiring (and simultaneously disheartening, since the odds are slim) to think to oneself that if only one could channel one's virulence with such verbal dexterity, one might be on to a promising career.
Of course, this was an era in which Perez Hilton had yet to become a household name.
