https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13175692-the-shadow-over-innsmouth
She had changed--as those who take to the water change--and told me she had never died.”It might have been the uncertain light from the flickering fire casting deceptive shadows across my friend’s face or maybe it was the way the lush, aromatic smoke from our smoldering cigars circled around his head, but I could swear that I was seeing changes morphing the features of Robert’s face as he told me his tale.He showed me a piece of jewelry with grotesque depictions of insidious looking creatures engraved on its surface.
Aleister Crowley, “The Mad Arab” Abdul Alhazred, Asmodeus, Ozzy Osbourne and John Denver sit in a pu
Not what I was expecting  QUITE POPULAR BUT... This novella is one of the most popular between H.P. Lovecraft's fans, however sadly I must say that I wasn't able to enjoy the reading experience as I'd expected initially.This is part of the Cthulhu Mythos,......set in the fictional town of Innsmouth. A man who is doing a personal research about the lore and architecture of New England’s towns ending at Innsmouth,......feeling it as a kind of calling to go there.Soon enough he founds that the tow
Not what I was expecting
QUITE POPULAR BUT...
A man who is doing a personal research about the lore and architecture of New England’s towns ending at Innsmouth,......feeling it as a kind of calling to go there.Soon enough he founds that the town is strangely too deserted......and those few inhabitants look just not right.It's a fair premise, but I felt that narrative development was too slow and sparse to my taste, especially taking in account that instead of a short story, it's a novella, therefore, longer to read it.
This is the dark heart of Lovecraft fiction at its finest: secret cults, secret cities under the sea and strange mutated people- what’s not to love?The Shadow of Innsmouth depicts a fear, a fear of the unknown and a fear of the watering down of the human race.
“One night I had a frightful dream in which I met my grandmother under the sea.
She had changed - as those who take to the water change - and told me she had never died.The narrator who stumbles upon them is stuck with horror and uncomfortableness at this strange town.
In this regard, The Shadow Over Innsmouth stands out with Lovecraft's perhaps most realized and relatable narrator; an unnamed character Lovecraft most possibly modeled after himself, with many small details he borrowed from his own life: a thorough researcher who spent hours at the libraries and other places gathering information about the history of his destination, and a traveler who always picked the cheapest route - usually via bus - and who preferred to eat food from the grocery store rather than dine at a restaurant.
There certainly is a strange kind of streak in the Innsmouth folks today—I don’t know how to explain it, but it sort of makes you crawl...Some of ’em have queer narrow heads with flat noses and bulgy, stary eyes that never seem to shut, and their skin ain’t quite right.
Guess they must die of looking in the glass!....Nobody around here or in Arkham or Ipswich will have anything to do with ’em, and they act kind of offish themselves when they come to town or when anyone tries to fish on their grounds....Yes, there’s a hotel in Innsmouth—called the Gilman House….
You befriend Indians, black people or other people of colors, then you must be EVIL!These might sound like a joke, but all of these things I mentioned above really ain't so funny after all.Therefore it is hardly a surprise that The Shadow Over Innsmouth, one of Lovecraft's grandest horror short stories about a trip to an New England decaying town, sea monsters, unfriendly townies, family secrets and Lovecraft's own seafood phobia, also bears the marks of its author's barely veiled racist attitude toward 'suspicious outsiders/strangers'.
By the way, you can always watch the movie version of The Shadow Over Innsmouth on Youtube...but in this movie version the story is renamed 'Dagon'.
La sombra sobre Innsmouth (H.
P. Lovecraft) * Ilustraciones: Alberto Vázquez - http://ow.ly/kw2T30e0qhy It was I who fled frantically out of Innsmouth in the early morning hours of July 16, 1927, and whose frightened appeals for government inquiry and action brought on the whole reported episode.
The mere telling helps me to restore confidence in my own faculties; to reassure myself that I was not the first to succumb to a contagious nightmare hallucination.
It helps me, too, in making up my mind regarding a certain terrible step which lies ahead of me.
Lovecraft Illustrated Volume 5Contents:ix - Introduction by S. T. Joshixiii - Foreword by Brian Yuzna003 - "The Shadow over Innsmouth" by H. P. Lovecraft091 - "The Shadow over the Shadow" by Pete Von Sholly093 - "The Harbor-Master" by Robert W. Chambers123 - "Fishhead" by Irvin S. Cobb135 - "Fish Schticks" by Robert M. Price
Only a part of the game is similar to The Shadow Over Innsmouth and it is a combination of more Lovecraft's stories, so it's not exactly the same, but I still remember how the arrival of the main character to Innsmouth, that filthy old hotel, and what happens later made me feel.
It has everything I love about Lovecraft.Trying to save some money, a young student ends up riding in a decrepit bus after learning of Innsmouth, a strange coastal town everyone around tries to avoid.
I am more or less a Lovecraft-come-lately and read Ruthanna Emrys' excellent Winter Tide without reading this first. Although I was familiar in a general way with the mythos, I had assumed that the backstory about the Innsmouth folk being interned by the US government was Emrys' interpolation -- but no, HPL says they were taken to "concentration camps," which surprised me a bit for 1927. <--not a spoiler. 1st paragraph
In the end, he discovers some unspeakable horror, once more related to the Cthulhu and other malign divinities from space and out of the underworld.As in many other HLP stories, the descriptions of old architecture abound.
3, the tale of old Zadok Allen is entirely told in the words of the informant, and I guess Lovecraft had some fun writing the whole thing with a sort of New Hampshire dialect — it makes it a bit rough to read, to be honest.Some disturbing teratology is present in this story, as usual, but unlike other texts, it is now related to the water world and the undersea instead of the earth, the pits, the underground: characteristically, the pervasive stench is no longer compared to the smell of decaying fungi, like in previous novels, but to the reek of rotten fish.
However, I'm just about the read Winter Tide which is a sequel of sorts to this one so I thought I'd knock it off quickly.Our narrator comes to the town of Innsmouth to investigate a town in decay as well as the strange stories that he's heard about it from neighboring towns.
He finds an unsettling place with strange people and gets the full story of the place from an old man there, but soon finds himself running for his life from the strange people of Innsmouth.
If you do, you find a masterpiece of creepy scene-setting and purple prose strewn campside horror story.
An intense, life-long dislike for short stories and first person narrative meant that the intrigue of Lovecraft couldn't quite get me to enjoy this one.We follow an intrepid traveller, standard Lovecraft, who seemingly at random falls head first in to a weird and wonderful world full of eldritch cults, esoteric goings on and horrors (literally) too horrific to put in to writing (convenient much).
From what I've read so far of Lovecraft's work, he couldn't do dialogue even when it was written in proper English and not the backward idiot dialect we have here.
So this was my Halloween read.
I even think that if you have to pick the only thing from Lovecraft to ever read it should be this one.
But then probably you will be very much mistaken with your impression, because you might actually start believing that he was a very good writer...
Well, whatever you think of H.P.L. this one was a good one and even his usual xenophobia isn't working against him but is only helping to create a stronger effect.
And you have to read the entire thing because the ending is important here...
Overall - 4.5 starsNarration - 4.5 starsStory - 4.5 stars
تحكي هذه الرواية القصيرة عن رحلة فتى إلى مدينة إنزماوث الملعونة، بأهلها الذين لايختلطون مع العالم الخارجي ولا يتقبلون أحدا.
رواية لا بأس بها يعيبها الجزء الأخير الذي أفاض في وصف مسار بطل القصة في شوارع المدينة.
ليس هناك عمق في الشخصيات ولا تقنيات سرد عالية الكفاءة.
اعتقد أن جو القصة هو البطل الحقيقي لهذا العمل.
هناك تيمة جيدة نوعا وهي مغزى اتباع دين معين إن لم يلمس اتباعه أثره على حياتهم المادية وخدمة مصالحهم الآنية.
وبالرغم من أن مجريات الأحداث في الفلم مختلفة كتيرا عن النص، إلا أن الفلم -برأيي- نجح في الحفاظ على جوهر القصة وعلى -وهو الأهم- الجو السيريالي المقبض.
This was my first Lovecraft, and I read it in preparation for reading Winter Tide by Ruthanna Emrys.I'm not a huge fan of "classic" speculative fiction, and so I was pleasantly surprised by how much I enjoyed this. The tension in this 1931 horror novella builds up slowly but surely, and makes for an entertaining read.
شائعات كثيرة وأساطير حولها فما الحقيقة؟ هل حقاً هُناك دخان بلا نار؟في الحقيقة، طوال أحداث الرواية كان لدي هاجس أو تصور لبطل الرواية أنه يهزي أو كُل ذلك مُجرد خيال وأنه فقط مُجرد مريض نفسي..
ولكنها مُجرد وجهة نظر قد لا أكون على صواب حولها.من مُميزات الرواية أن الكاتب نجح في تسريب القلق والتوتر الذي كان يشعر به بطلنا بداخلك..
أنت فقط تكره لأن ذلك الكائن السمكي يُريد أن يقتل بطلنا..
فقط لذلك ليس إلا.وفي المُجمل العام كانت تجربة جيدة وأحببت عالم لافكرافت الذي لن يتوقف توغلي فيه عند تلك الرواية.
3,42.La sombra sobre Innsmouth: 4,5/5.La extraña casa elevada sobre la niebla: 3/5.El ceremonial: 3,5/5.La música de Erich Zann: 2/5.Los sueños en la casa de la bruja: 5/5Dagon: 3/5Las ratas en las paredes: 3/5 Decidí releer algunos relatos de Lovecraft este otoño porque sus historias siempre tienen una respuesta convincente y esperanzadora cuando todo te parece una mierda y opinas que lo mejor sería que todo el mundo se muriera. Seguramente volveré a alguna antología de Lovecraft antes de que
Decidí releer algunos relatos de Lovecraft este otoño porque sus historias siempre tienen una respuesta convincente y esperanzadora cuando todo te parece una mierda y opinas que lo mejor sería que todo el mundo se muriera.
En este caso me parece una elección perfecta la de Alberto Vázquez porque las historias de Lovecraft se desarrollan en un brumoso onirismo, pues son fantasías traídas al plano de la realidad, y como tal no pueden evitar tener puntos desdibujados.
El caso de "El ceremonial" es un poco distinto, porque es una historia que parece partir desde un ámbito onírico y que se corrompe conforme el protagonista conoce los entresijos del culto de sus ancestros.
Fusty, stuffiness alternating with florid, overblown wordiness. Not particularly scary, and several story moments were clunky. And the last element of the story felt like it came out of nowhere(view spoiler)[,with the narrator veering from horror at his experiences and his personal revelations, to his eager acceptance of his legacy (hide spoiler)]. My first and probably last Lovecraft for a while.
¡Que señor relato! Me encantó. Lovecraft nos lleva a un pueblo lúgubre y misterioso. Nos mete de lleno en la atmosfera. Es terrorifico, te mantiene tenso y el final es espectacular, en las últimas páginas lo ves venir pero hace que vuele tu imaginación reseña completa https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nGkkt...
I’ve always taken an interest in marine biology and ichthyology, so reading these subjects in a fantastical yet quasi-realistic narrative in a horror story is an A+ in my book.
Innsmouth is a dreary little town that I have seen multiple times on my sojourns along the Oregon coast: decrepit homes, abject poverty, desolate roads, foggy sidewalks, and of course the pungent, odiferous stench of salty air and sea foam mingling with the nostalgic smell of old cape cods.
The latter will bother some, as it did Lovecraft some time after he published this story, but don’t let that dissuade you from reading it.
my favorite HPL story. Mike Bennett does a fantastic job reading this great story.
This is part of  The Complete Works of H.P. Lovecraft , which can be found formatted for Nook or Kindle at CthulhuChick.com.Synopsis: "The Shadow Over Innsmouth" is a short novel about a weird hybrid race of humans and creatures resembling a cross between a fish and a frog, which lives in the seaside village of Innsmouth.My Thoughts: There is a fairly decent video adaptation of this story on YouTube. Part 1, Part 2, Part 3. It's not exact, of course, but it gives the basic gist. I really enjoyed
The Complete Works of H.P. Lovecraft
, which can be found formatted for Nook or Kindle at CthulhuChick.com.Synopsis: "The Shadow Over Innsmouth" is a short novel about a weird hybrid race of humans and creatures resembling a cross between a fish and a frog, which lives in the seaside village of Innsmouth.My Thoughts: There is a fairly decent video adaptation of this story on YouTube.
It's not exact, of course, but it gives the basic gist.
I really enjoyed the "surprise ending" on this one.
I think this is one of my favorite Lovecraft stories.
I mostly read this because it was one of the foundational influences for Ruthanna Emrys' Winter Tide.
Read with that outlook, it was quite enjoyable.
I suspect I would not have enjoyed it nearly as much without that as a background.
It's better written than Lovecraft's earliest work (which is most of what I've read), less prone to word salad.
The people of Innsmouth are variously described as fishlike, froglike, and apelike.
Recommended as a background for other writers' work using Innsmouth and its peoples more than for its own merits.
Ruthanna Emrys' Winter Tide is an excellent antidote for Lovecraft's xenophobia, as is Jordan Hawk's Widdershins series.
Innsmouth..huhDear,did you get to see nowadays Cairo?نوفيلا مجنونة ساحرة
**Leído para el Club de Lectura**Para la segunda entrega del Club de Lectura le tocó a Gloria elegir el libro, y se decidió por una selección de cuentos de Lovecraft.Este es el tipo de historias de Lovecraft que más me gustan.
Poco a poco va construyendo la atmósfera hasta llegar al momento de mayor horror, para después despacharse con un final inesperado.
Admito que ya suponía lo que iba a pasar en el cuento por las pistas que va dejando en el camino, pero el final no me lo imaginé.
Mi fé en Lovecraft fue renovada despues de leer esta historia xD
I find myself often thinking that if Lovecraft's writing was as good as the concepts he came up with, then his work would be nothing short of masterpieces. The same holds true for The Shadow Over Innsmouth. It's eerie and thought-provoking like many of his other stories, but has a tendency to drag from time to time. Regardless, it's another interesting look into the Cthulu Mythos; a world I find myself continually drawn to.Almost maddeningly so...
The Shadow Over Innsmouth is a novella that sent me into the darkest recesses of my mind.
What I will include are the feelings of dread and filthiness that Mr. Lovecraft seemingly shoved into my head during that hour of reading.
As I began reading, the first things I noticed was how wonderful the writing in the book is.
As I read the description of each street Robert walked along, the broken down musty churches and thick smell of fish became more and more real.
AH.P. Lovecraft story is more about the visceral feeling that it gives the reading party.
