https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9673436-the-invention-of-hugo-cabret
DUE TO INTERNET ADVICE/ABUSE FROM A COMPLETE STRANGER, THIS REVIEW NOW CONFORMS TO GRAMMATICAL STANDARDS AND ALL THAT JAZZ, BUT IS STILL, AT THE END OF THE DAY, A BRIEF REVIEW OF A CHILDREN'S BOOK WITH.
OH, BUT I STILL WON'T CAPITALIZE LETTERS.
and the first book i read for my summer class on "children's literature".
and the first 500 page book i have read in an hour.
(see, i know capital letters exist...)DOES THIS PLEASE YOU, STRANGER-DANGER?
HAVE I PASSED THE INTERNET?
في الساحرة...السينماوهذا الكتاب الساحر منقسم إلي صور سينمائية مرسومة ببساطة وجمال، وقصة خلابة ملهمةالصور بالكتاب تشعر كأنها تنقلك للسينما حقا، بدءا من فتح الستار، وبدء الصورة من لقطة بعيدة ثم تبدأ تقترب "زووم إن" حتي تدخل الأحداث في محطة القطار بفرنسا كأنك تدخلها حقا ليس في السينما فحسب وأنما في الحقيقةثم تبدأ القصة والتي تنقسم إلي جزئينالجزء لأول عن عشق الهدف في الحياةفقصة هوجو الساحرة قيمتها في البحث عن هدفك في الحياة , موهبتك التي تجعل للحياة معنيوالجزء الثاني عن عشق السينما وتكريم الرواد المنسيين لهاعن مخرج من اهم مخرجي السينما في فرنسا والعالم ,جورج ميليس ستتعرف عليه وعلي أسماء أفلامه التي خلبت خيال والد هوجو وهو في عمره مثل رحلة إلي القمر, وستشعر بالحنين للأفلام التي خلبت مخيلتك عندما كنت في عمره ايضا, سحر المؤثرات البسيطة بفيلم كلص بغداد ورحلة السندباد السابعة مثلارواية ممتازة وأخراج للكتاب أكثر من رائع بأطار جميل وسحر خاص في طبعة فاخرة جدا, أشعر أن الكتاب كشريط فيديو ينقل لي قصة بالصورة فعلا بل وهناك أيضا صور حقيقية وليست مرسومة فحسب لأشهر لقطات أفلام جورج ميليس السينمائية, وديكوراته ومؤثراته السابقة عصرها في ذلك الوقتالغريب أنه بمقارنة سعر كتاب مصور كهذا لا تجد زيادة في سعره عن الروايات العادية بنفس صفحاته..
I like to imagine that the world is one big machine.
You know, machines never have any extra parts.
So I figure if the entire world is a big machine, I have to be here for some reason.
If you're interested in buying The Invention of Hugo Cabret, just click on the image below to go through my link.
Este libro es maravilloso. Youtube no se salva de que haga una reseña. No cualquier libro se lee en 2 horas y media por que no puedes soltarlo. Y menos si tiene 533 páginas.
3.5I admit that for a while I thought this book might be one of those children's picture books whose ratings reflect the artwork and not the story. And yeah, the artwork is pretty nifty:But as the story began to unfold and became entwined with historical events, I gradually turned my attention from the drawings to Hugo Cabret and co. The book is set in Paris in the 1930s and Hugo is an orphan who only manages to survive each day by clinging to the hope that he will one day fix the automaton his
3.5I admit that for a while I thought this book might be one of those children's picture books whose ratings reflect the artwork and not the story.
The book is set in Paris in the 1930s and Hugo is an orphan who only manages to survive each day by clinging to the hope that he will one day fix the automaton his father had been working on...
Parts of the book managed to achieve that which we all really want from a children's book: magical flair.
I found the ending to be somewhat anticlimatic as well but, on the whole, it was a nice story and I really enjoyed the history lesson behind it.
So what if the book has lots of illustrations and it's written for children, it's still a real sense of Herculean reading, even if it's not that impressive.
This book has the a great sense of wonder that adult books like Trip to the Stars has.
I don't know much about kids but I think that the way the book opens with almost fifty pages of pictures gives a great feeling for the book which would be much more difficult to have described for kids in only words.
Luckily, the cast of Terry Gilliam's 1989 movie The Adventures of Baron Munchausen were delighted to come to my rescue.
A small boy cannot hide in the walls of a station and tend its clocks; a clockwork automaton cannot write a lengthy novel, complete with pictures; and even the author admits that his portrait of a distinguished French film-maker is, I regret to say, entirely the product of his deplorable imagination.
These are my terms: what are yours?Sally SaltIf I did have a brother, I wish he was like Hugo.
And if I had a sister, I wish she was like Isabelle.
And I think Uncle Georges is a bit like the Baron.Paris looks very pretty.
“The Invention of Hugo Cabret” is one of the first chapter books to win a Caldecott Medal and is cleverly written and illustrated by Brian Selznick and it is about how an orphaned boy named Hugo finds out the secrets contained in his most prized possession…a mechanical man from his dead father.
Brian Selznick illustrates the characters’ expressions in such a realistic manner that ranges from shock to happiness that children will easily relate to the characters.“The Invention of Hugo Cabret” is a truly distinguished children’s book that is ahead of its time and it will always remain to be one of the best books ever created!
The Invention of Hugo Cabret, Brian Selznick تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و هفتم ماه دسامبر سال 2011 میلادیعنوان: اختراع هوگو کابره؛ نویسنده: برایان سلزنیک؛ مترجم: رضی هیرمندی، تهران، نشر افق، 1389، در 280 صسبک این کتاب را «سینما رمان» رمان (کلامی تصویری) نام نهاده اند، ترکیبی غیرهمزمان از تصویر و نوشتار است، داستان نوبتی با تصویر و متن روایت میشود. ا. شربیانی
Reseña completa aquí: http://sabiouswords.blogspot.com.co/2...PRECIOSO Lo que diga sobre este libro, lo que sea, siento que no le hará justicia. Me ha fascinado su mezcal de narrativa, las ilustraciones, las fotos, TODO.La historia de Hugo me conmovió y despertó mi curiosidad por el cine. Aún ahora me pregunto por qué la docencia no usa estos libros tan maravillosos para hablar de la historia.Y no diré más porque atrasaré todos mis vídeos y reseñas para sacar inmediatamente las que estarán dedicadas a este libro. Así me ha gustado.
This book also has some vintage photography of the era which really helps set the scene.Hugo is an orphan with a talent for machinery, he lives in a railway station in Paris and tends to the clocks and steals food to get by.
I loved the inclusion of the stills from films and the information on these factual elements included in the back pages.The pictures make you race through what would otherwise seem like a huge book, it's an ideal read for children who find a longer book a struggle.9th September 2018.
My daughter is reading this now, we just looked up the Harold Lloyd clock scene which is pictured as a still in this book.
Read this review and more on my blogIn a nutshell: The Invention of Hugo Cabret is a magical and heartwarming read that anyone could enjoy.I put off reading this book for far too long.
It's been a few months since I read both but I can still remember how magical it was and how I fell in love with the story.The book is a chunky one at over 500 pages and it can seem daunting at first but it's actually a very quick read.
The Invention of Hugo Cabret is a simple yet magical story.
I read the entire book in a few hours this afternoon; despite being about 500 pages it only has about 26,000 words and much of the page space is taken up with interesting formatting as well as sketches that help fill in some scenes of action and emotion to move the plot forward.
It's a very interesting and ingenious idea for a book, one I quite appreciated.
Pages and pages of sketches separate chapters--they really DO help tell the story, not just in that they illustrate what is going (like children's picture books) but actually serve to progress the story without using any words...
"The story I am about to share with you takes place in 1931, under the roofs of Paris. Here you will meet a boy named Hugo Cabret, who once, long ago, discovered a mysterious drawing that changed his life forever."  So begins the introduction of The Invention of Hugo Cabret. Shortly after the start of the story we learn that twelve-year-old Hugo has recently lost his father to a tragic fire.A horologist working for the city's museum, Hugo's father finds an old automaton in the museum's attic on
But one fateful night when Hugo's father is trapped inside the attic a firebreaks out, thus leading to the death of Hugo's father and much regret on Hugo's part for having been the one to convince his father to fix the automaton in the first place.Determined to continue where his father left off, Hugo begins working on the automaton by night while taking care of the city's clocks by day.
Although he has previously illustrated other authors' works, The Invention of Hugo Cabret is Brian Selznick's first full children's novel.
This massive hardcover might have been worth four stars as a traditional novel, but the whimsical and cinematic illustrations absolutely push this book to a four. I read it in an evening and wished that I could've had it when I was 10 -- I would've been in hog heaven. A great middle grade novel. ***wondering why all my reviews are five stars? Because I'm only reviewing my favorite books -- not every book I read. Consider a novel's presence on my Goodreads bookshelf as a hearty endorsement. I can't believe I just said "hearty." It sounds like a stew.****
Çok çok güzeldi!
Simply the most imaginative, stunning book I have ever read.
He uses his remarkable skill to create an incredibly beautiful and poignant story of an orphan boy, Hugo Cabret, who secretly roams the tunnels of the Paris train station, keeping the clocks in running order.
The Invention of Hugo Cabret is set in 1931 Paris.
It was hard to believe that I was reading a fairly recent book.
It’s true to its era, I felt as if I was reading classic – old and authentic.Beautiful, magical book.
I hope more books are written in this format.
This is one of those rare books where the movie is much better than the novel.Skip the book, but do see the movie, "Hugo", which is marvelous.
Jeff Woodman reads the book like he is narrating it to kids.
Very likely that's his main audience, but his reading style is so self consciously slow and declamatory, it detracts from the story.Update 11/28/2015: I got a copy of the physical book from the library.
Apparently this is one book where the audiobook alone doesn't do the book justice as there are many illustrations, tricks with typesetting, etc.
Wow.... just wow.Words can't express how much I enjoyed this book. I think it might be the best book that I read so far. Maybe not the best, but it's surely my favorite.I loved everything in it, the story, the characters, the movie pictures and the ART. I adored every single illustration this book had.I would recommend this book to literally everyone who likes reading. It was just that good.
However, now that I have said that, the following criticisms that I have for it that have prevented me from giving it 5 stars err on the side of "overburdening criticism," namely that the language was somewhat stilted and the characters weren't particularly well-developed.
If a picture is worth 1,000 words, then Brian Selznick (or, if you've read the novel, Hugo's automaton) has spoken a million words.Although the story was a familiar one insofar as it was reminiscent of a Charles Dickens rags-to-riches story, it explored the rich, largely untapped topic, at least in children's literature, of the beginnings of cinema and the wonder that it inspired.
Where are the words?”I’m being clever and smart and illustrating my only problem I had with this book in my review.Does that make sense?No?Want me to use some more italics?Alright, fine.
I think I had just set my expectations a little too high.The best way I can describe it is a love letter to art, film and magic.I just wish that ‘story’ had received just a bit more than a ps at the end.You can find this review and lots of other exciting things on my blog, Wear the Old Coat.
Dar puștiul va trebui sa se descurce singur, dupa ce intr-o zi unchiul nu mai ajunge acasa.Mostenind talentul tatalui sau, el se ocupa zi de zi de ceasurile garii, intorcandu-le , ungandu-le mecanismele si potrivindu-le dupa un ceas de mana ramas de la tatal sau , ceas de care avea grija sa functioneze impecabil.Dorind sa repare un om mecanic, care functiona cu mecanisme de ceasuri, automat pe care il salvase din ruinele arse ale muzeului unde lucrase si murise intr-un incendiu tatal sau, Hugo sustragea piese de la un magazin de jucarii din gara, apartinand lui Papa Georges.
I also didn't have really any idea of what it was about, but the beauty of the book itself made me decide to give it a try - and I as not disappointed!The book follows a young orphan called Hugo Cabret, who lives inside the walls of the Grand Central station in Paris, mending clocks and stealing toy parts from a local vendor.
When he is caught by the toy vendor, he becomes enveloped in a mysterious world of automatons, movies, and magic.What I loved about this book was the second part, which is where it really kicked off for me and captured my full attention.
Such a great book! My review can be found here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MJ2cMh...
It is in many ways a modern fairy tale story and therefore I imagine a great novel for a younger audience.Even reading it now as an eighteen year old; while no longer the little trusting child who loved fairytales I still enjoyed the way Selznick constructed this volume.
And even if I found it a little simple for my taste I still award it four stars because I appreciate the beauty of this book and moreover the fact that Selznick is creating artwork that children can enjoy.
So I would encourage you to read this while trying to think how you would have enjoyed it as a child and if you have children to read it to them.
Wow- what a gorgeously magical gem of a book.
I picked this up for a challenge to read a Steampunk book, and had no idea what I was getting into as I opened the cover.
The book also incorporates film an automaton that draws a picture merging the past and present together.
Throughout the book, I just wanted to take Hugo under my wing and hug him.
This is certainly a book I would highly recommend if you haven't come across it yet, especially if you're looking for something different in your reading life.
The reader really needs to spend some time pouring over these intricate drawings, for they forward the story.
The book is intended for children, but will delight adults as well.
They are rich and subtle and complex and detailed, showing incredible depth of field and use of light and shadow.It's a hefty book - some 525 pages, and the paper is thick.
The first time I read it straight through in just a couple of hours.
But on this second reading I took more time to pour over the illustrations, really studying the detail.
(NOTE: updated Sept 2017, after second reading)
خصوصاً در مقابل هوگو کابره که انگار یه شخصیت متعادل بود، اون خیلی لوس و بچه به نظر میرسید.
نمدونم نویسنده اینطوری میخواست تعلیق ایجاد کنه؟ با پاس کاری کردن ِ مداوم و یکنواخت ِ شخصیت اصلی؟ از طرف دیگه، اینکه پیرمرده بعد از دیدن نقاشی و اینا یهو افتاد به بستر بیماری و تب کرد..
از طرف دیگه هم، این که من شخصاً انتظار داشتم نشانه بیشتری از بابائه هوگو ببینم.
نویسنده طوری ما رو هدایت کرد که قراره هوگو در مورد پدرش چیزی بفهمه.
همه این کارا رو کرد تا پیام پدرشو بفهمه.
ولی مسیر داستان عوض شد و خیلی هم شیک، هوگو باهاش هم ساز شد!
While The Invention of Hugo Cabret by Brian Selznick is a children's book - I really liked it. It was nice and simple to read, had a sweet end and made me feel all cozy and warm. The story is magical and captivating and 284/534 pages are beautifully sketched and pull you into the story in a super unique way. Even if picture books/graphic novels don't appeal to you, I recommend watching the film adaption, which exudes the same level of feel goodness as this book!Basically, it made me feel like thisand this
Ho letto questo libro in una sera. Sia per il fatto che sì, è lungo 500 pagine, ma escludendo le illustrazioni saranno 200 effettive e sia perchè sono stata letteralmente trascinata nella Parigi del 1930 con Hugo. E' un libro incantevole e molto all'avanguardia per le modalità con cui viene narrata la storia: a metà fra romanzo e graphic-novel. Credo che sia un romanzo che consiglieri a tutti e soprattutto a chi ha studiato o ama il cinema delle origini.
