https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29939230-a-conjuring-of-light
With ACOL hitting shelves this month, I guess it's time to finally mark it as read...I don't know what else to say, except I've never been prouder of a book, and I really hope my readers enjoy the end of this journey.
hot damn.
(No major spoilers). I AM SO HAPPY RIGHT NOW. Oh my goodness I adore these characters and that ending was everything I wanted. The final books in trilogies are usually my least favorite because they can't possibly live up to all of my expectations... but this was perfect.  "I've got a bad feeling," he whispered..."A piece of magic is parading as a god, a poisoned fog is destroying London, and three Antari are sparring aboard our ship. I'd be worried if you didn't." The plot hit the ground runnin
"I've got a bad feeling," he whispered..."A piece of magic is parading as a god, a poisoned fog is destroying London, and three Antari are sparring aboard our ship.
I do love ships.
So the story picked up a lot about halfway through and the entire last half was amazing!
I love ALL of these characters so much (but Lila will always be my favorite).
The best parts were probably just seeing Kell, Lila, Rhy, and Alucard interact more.
Actually, seeing Rhy grow so much might have been my favorite part of the story.
NO FAULTS.AMAZING.I LOVED IT.IM CRYING.anoshe ANNNNOOOOOOOOSHHEEEEEEEEEEEEEEi hope she does a spin off!
We've got:✔Perspectives tossed in here and there that ultimately amount to nothing.✔Unnecessary emphasis on characters who haven't mattered at all in the first and second books.✔A plot that takes almost 400 pages to really get going.✔Questions raised without answers given.✔A villain who feels neither scary, nor provides a real reason for his being a villain.So the story begins right where A Gathering of Shadows leaves off.
I.... don't know what to do with myself. I am so completely overwhelmed with emotions and so far past blown away... and now I'm trying to write a review for one of the greatest stories ever told.  "Love and loss," he said, "are like a ship and the sea. They rise together. The more we love, the more we have to lose. But the only way to avoid loss is to avoid love. And what a sad world that would be."  You guys... if you haven't picked up this series... start it now. As an aspiring author... I pra
*virtual hug*Anyway, since I'm barely able to even function (I'm still a blubbering mess after finishing this book...) I'm just going to summarize a mess of words/statements below and hope it makes sense.Be ready because the moment you open this book...
I don't even know.The only slow moments in this ENTIRE book were the flashbacks - and there were lots of little ones all throughout.
But I'll say this- I really liked the first book though I felt it was slow at times.
I LOVED the second as it took the series to a whole new level of emotional turmoil.
As of now, this is the number one most overrated and worst trilogy that I've ever read so far.
“Anoshe brought solace.
And hope.
And the strength to let go.”  No need for Anoshe, I don’t need any additional strength to let go of this series.
Let it be known here that I won’t be reading any more books written by VE Schwab.
This is where I must part way with her works.
Trust me it’s better for me to do this.
For her fans, I’m happy that you love her series but you don’t want to see me rant and ra
For her fans, I’m happy that you love her series but you don’t want to see me rant and rated her books with bad reviews right?
Just like ADSOM (A Darker Shade of Mediocre), the first book started and ended well as a standalone and it should’ve stayed that way.To sum up, my experience reading this straight after AGOS (A Gathering of Shit), it’s like wiping my ass with sandpaper instead of a tissue.
But get this, instead of Kell’s and Lila’s background, VE Schwab decided to let us know about so many side characters that barely made an appearance in the previous books.
No one is more stunned by this rating than me. For a series in which I was neutral on the first book and hated the second, this is one of my favorite finales. ..... I am confusion. Pleasant confusion... but confusion...
magical objects everywhere• the light of my life is Kell and Alcurd bickering because they are old cranky women who don't like to share Rhy apparently• Lila showing love by stabbing people• sass in times of strife• black magic, black magic everywhere• the way the book can hurt so fiercely by damaging/taking away things the characters love so their pain is your pain and it's 10000 x worse than anything• Holland who is a precious cinnamon muffin and should not suffer so• literally me right now to Holland = <3 <3 <3 <3• everything• i loved everything let's just get it out thereSPOILERS ABOUT THE ENDING:(view spoiler)[Look I'm SO happy all my darlings survived but in a completely damaged way so THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT I'M HERE FOR.
WELL.This was an intense read, and I LOVED every moment of it (even when I was crying and in pain). A magnificent book and conclusion to a series. These characters have stolen my heart and run off with it. I don't mind, though.Thanks Red & Kassie for buddy reading with me and making this reading experience so magical <3
Speaking of loose ends, I also thought Nasi's POV had been introduced because she would have a role later in the story, but that was apparently a red herring or purely a necessity in order to develop Ojka's character.•I think that plot-wise this works perfectly, and I feel that this was exactly how things were supposed to go, but I was and still am dreadfully curious about (view spoiler)[Kell's past (hide spoiler)].
(See how hard I'm trying not to hope?)➽ I could try to put into words what I feel for this series, I could put my thinking cap on and make countless attempts, and still I would get nowhere.
its been awhile since a conclusion to a series has hit me so hard.
so much was at stake that i couldnt put this down - i became so invested in the captivating writing, the constant peril and intrigue, and the emotions i felt for the characters and their redemption.
and even though this book hit every mark all the way through, it was really the ending that shined for me.
this was wrapped up so nicely and provided the closure i needed after pouring my heart and soul into this story across three books.
i felt very at peace with the way the story was resolved, which is all i could have asked for.
Alright, not the middle grade/childrens books, but I feel like I'm a little too old for that.I love her.
I'm just not in love with it the way I'm in love with book 1 and 2.Writing a conclusion to a series is hard.
It happens so (so so so) often that I'm 100% thrilled by a series and then 100% disappointed with the last book.
In the end, a smaller page count and a more crafted and comprimised plot would have improved the book and left me more satisfied.This fantasy world also lost some of it's magic.
THIS BOOK!I was so afraid to go into it because I just knew everyone was going to die and that would be it, THEN END!
Yes, people died.
Yes, there was a lot of blood and violence.
I love Rhy, Kell, Lila and Alucard so much.
And I love that Lila is a bad@ssed woman in the book!
If you haven't read this trilogy and have been wanting to, I suggest you get on it because it's freaking awesome!
#1 A Darker Shade of Magic ★★★★★#2 A Gathering of Shadows ★★★★★#3 A Conjuring of Light ★★★★★ I’ve been putting off writing this review for a month, which is about the same length of time I put off finishing the book itself, because I simply have not been prepared to say goodbye to this trilogy. Reading these three books has been one of the most emotional, anxiety-inducing, and genuinely magical experiences of my entire life. I have so much to say, with no idea how to express any of it. “Love and
#1 A Darker Shade of Magic ★★★★★#2 A Gathering of Shadows ★★★★★#3 A Conjuring of Light ★★★★★ I’ve been putting off writing this review for a month, which is about the same length of time I put off finishing the book itself, because I simply have not been prepared to say goodbye to this trilogy.
I can safely say that I have never loved every character in a series the way I do with this one.
I don’t think I’ve ever laughed so much in so many moments of sheer and utter anxiety, but that’s this series in a nutshell—especially the second and third installments.
When a loved one was dying, they said anoshe.
Honestly I should have kept count of how many times they kiss because they’re rushing off to danger every two seconds and just kiss before all the time just for luck you know - also LILA ALMOST DIED and kell breaks apart and jfc he carries her back and hugs her and MY HEART - Rhylucard: I SHIP THEM SO MUCH.
(yes this is an update because I thought I was ready, guess what I'M NOT)This book releases in 18 days.Which is to say, 432 hours.259200 minutes.15552000 seconds till we get more Kell and Lila and Alucard and Rhy.I know it's not accurate.
Updated 9/11/17:I will be crying for the next 75 years. This was perfection. It was such a good conclusion.▪▪▪UMMMMM so I finished A Gathering of Shadows and placed an order for this book within 10 minutes. It only took so long because I had to find my credit card. GIMME.
Updated 9/11/17:I will be crying for the next 75 years. This was perfection. It was such a good conclusion.▪️▪️▪️UMMMMM so I finished A Gathering of Shadows and placed an order for this book within 10 minutes. It only took so long because I had to find my credit card. GIMME.
I no longer care about the plot or give any shits about what happens to these characters.
I am sure it's not a bad book but since i didn't like however much i read, i can't rate it any higher.
(based on what i read)There is no character development whatsoever.
I didn't mind her recklessness in the first book, quite enjoyed it actually.
I couldn't read this bullshit any longer let alone actually take it seriously.
Oh, how i loved you for years, Kell!
He seemed totally out of character in this last book.
I wanted to keep reading this for Holland..
Ehhhhhh. I finished this one a while back, but I just couldn't decide how I felt about it.I mean, it was ok. Nothing was horribly wrong, and I certainly didn't feel pissed off when I closed the book. It just left me with this vaguely meh feeling.Like...why did I read all of this?This was, at 624 pages, a HUGE book. <--for me!I know some of you read massive tomes every night before bed, but I usually snack on comic books or fluffy romance novels, so when these bigguns don't deliver I feel a t
It just left me with this vaguely meh feeling.Like...why did I read all of this?This was, at 624 pages, a HUGE book.
<--for me!I know some of you read massive tomes every night before bed, but I usually snack on comic books or fluffy romance novels, so when these bigguns don't deliver I feel a tad disappointed.And I'm not actually saying it didn't deliver, because look at all the bjillion 5 star reviews!
I'll tag the ones that are possible spoilers...(view spoiler)[The two spoilery things I wasn't crazy about were Holland's ending, and Kells magic pains.First, Holland.
(hide spoiler)]I guess the other thing I wasn't crazy about was Lila and Kell's relationship.
I was incredibly excited to read the last book in this series and wow was it action packed. Almost too much if that's possible. I definitely enjoyed it (and recommend it!) but it wasn't as good as the two other ones in my opinion. I overall liked how things were wrapped up at the end but I felt like Lila's character was a bit one-dimensional.More in my wrap up at the end of the month!
1.) A Darker Shade of Magic ★★★2.) A Gathering of Shadows ★★★  “Love and loss,” he said, “are like a ship and the sea.
They rise together.
The more we love, the more we have to lose.
But the only way to avoid loss is to avoid love.
And what a sad world that would be.”  I have read one book in this series every year for the BooktubeSFF Awards.
And every year I enjoy what I’m reading, I close the book pretty pleased, and then I sit down to write my review and start thinking about how these are suc
And every year I enjoy what I’m reading, I close the book pretty pleased, and then I sit down to write my review and start thinking about how these are such big books with so little happening.
One of my favorite books of all time is the most character driven thing out there, but for some reason I just don’t love this series like everyone else does.
I am just saying A Darker Shade of Magic and A Gathering of Shadows don’t feel or read like adult fantasy to me, but I’m not saying they aren’t.
the only reason i haven't skewered and started roasting myself like a kabob for not finishing A Conjuring of Light the first time around is because i finished it the second time and appreciated it for all that it is worth, dEAR LORd.you know that feeling when you've just walked out of the theater after watching a bomb!
i thought too much time between the first two had passed and now, this series was nothing more fond memory to be left in its place.i know what you're thinking, who let this plebeian get an account on goodreads and spew this fAKE NEWS.
If A Gathering of Shadows deserved 100+ stars, A Conjuring of Light deserves 10x that many. I have no words. This series is honestly my favorite out of everything I've ever read and I just want to reread the first one now that it's all over! My heart is so happy. Anoshe ADSOM.
4.25 StarsOverview:  “Anoshe was a word for strangers in the street, and lovers between meetings, for parents and children, friends and family. It softened the blow of leaving.”  Okay, I know my rating is picky and oddly specific, but it’s true. I enjoyed this more than AGOS (making it my favorite of the series) but it's still just shy of 5 stars. In fact, that's what I rated it in a blind-emotional fury immediately after I finished. Because there was a lot I loved. ...But also some stuff I didn
She expertly lets the scene rise and fall and is a master at setting tone.Listen and let me tell you about my two new children: Rhy Maresh and Alucard Emery.
Not quite the direction I was expecting for this series, but it works very well and I loved getting inside his head.There are certain scenes the whole series seemed to be building towards and they are tense.
While I really enjoyed their perspectives and how they impacted the story, it felt a little out of place to just now learn about these characters.
Listen: Lila is a fun character, but she has no development.
Anoshe was a word for strangers in the street, and lovers between meetings, for parents and children, friends and family. It softened the blow of leaving. Eased the strain of parting. A careful nod to the certainty of today, the mystery of tomorrow. When a friend left, with little chance of seeing home, they said anoshe. When a loved one was dying, they said anoshe. When corpses were burned, bodies given back to the earth and souls to the stream, those left grieving said anoshe. Anoshe brought
alucard's backstory is so horrible (i cant believe his brother survived but good people didnt wtf can he jump off a cliff thank u very much nobody needs him) and i'm so happy that rhy understood and forgave him and wjskfeafjsklfskl pls be happy.kell and lila (!!!!!!!!!!!!!).
like, kell's parents thing was at least acknowledged, holland got a decent backstory that i will never stop crying about, but lila got nothing.
(i also don't understand how she almost died when kell said 93289894 times in adsom that antari are almost invincible and it's really hard, almost impossible to kill them and then bam lila could've died if holland didn't heal her.
"A myth without a voice is like a dandelion without a breath of wind. No way to spread the seeds."Too. Much. Feels. hElp. This is hands down my FAVORITE book from the Shades of Magic trilogy! It's rare for me to be satisfied with a conclusion to a series as a lot of the times the spark gets lost along the way but not in ACOL's case. It has everything I want in a conclusion and more!• We get to see a different and a more in-depth side of some of our characters (ehem, my bby Holland *_*). However,
It's rare for me to be satisfied with a conclusion to a series as a lot of the times the spark gets lost along the way but not in ACOL's case.
Seriously, read it at your own risk ;)• RHY RHY RHY RHY RHY.• HOLLAND HOLLAND HOLLAND HOLLAND HOLLAND.• Lila is even more reckless in this one but damn I still love her• Kell and Alucard are such cutie pies.
I live for their bickering :')• Secondary characters that will make you fall in love and cry.
terrified of the conclusion to this series
A truly beautiful ending to an incredible series. Schwab never disappoints and this book, as well as the first two, were phenomenal.
Okay, I'm a mess inside. Nope. This series is not over. Never the less this book was such a perfect wrap to this series. It was beautiful and heartbreaking. Definitely deserves all the stars. "Anoshe - until another day."
The third and final volume in the Shades of Magic YA fantasy trilogy is everything it should be.
There is death, as one should expect after the end of the 2nd volume, there is pain and loss but also hope, love and happiness.
The characters finally grow up and Lila is not so damn annoying, only a little bit.
Alucard is amazing as expected and the other characters grew on me.
In terms of relationships, the one between Alucard and Rhy was beautifully written and I could feel the love between them.
*MAJOR spoilers ahead. THEY WILL NOT BE MARKED* like, seriously they are all over the place, you've been warned.---lol so, fuck this book for not giving me the ending i wanted. who am i kidding though, the day i started reading this book, Schwab decided it was a good day to HIGHLIGHT THE FUCKING ENDING for this damn book and spread that shit all over my feed. people commented the ending and my fucking traitorous eyes saw that damn spoiler so, \_(ツ)_/like, even though i knew that poor bby Holland
who am i kidding though, the day i started reading this book, Schwab decided it was a good day to HIGHLIGHT THE FUCKING ENDING for this damn book and spread that shit all over my feed.
(view spoiler)[*kell and lila doing some coochie coochie*luc: stop fucking with the ship (hide spoiler)]ahaha i love him.AND LET'S NOT FORGET what his brother did to him after he caught Luc with Rhy. AHAHAHA NO PAIN AT ALL.but srsly i'm happy Luc and Rhy got their happy ending after all the shit they've been through.
