https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7149613-bull-hunter
BULL HUNTER is the story of a young man who goes by the name of "Bull" who is of unusual size, and has been put down because of it.
Finally reaching the point where he's had enough of it from his relatives, he decides to move on.
Fate enters and Bull crosses paths with a famous gunfighter who trains him to use a gun, and Bull grows and learns much about life and his abilities in ways that he never would have known had he stayed back home.
Bull Hunter was the start of the legend of the "gentle giant". The man who started out in life being ridiculed because of his size and "slow" nature. He became fast with the gun, because partners with the black stallion "Diablo", and is just now beginning to find out what he can become.I do not know whether or not his story continued in later books, but I would like to see another story of this gentle giant.
A great westernThe character development of "Bull" Hunter is a marvelous thing. Unique and Western at the same time. There could be many stories written about this guy. This is a fine story as well.
I forget how my heart is drawn to the old Westerns. Many of Max Brand’s books are free on iBooks.
Good read i enjoyed this book and would recomend it to any western readersI would recommend this book to all western readers I enjoyed the story and I like Max Brands books very much
Great all-aroundThis is the first I've read of Max Brand, and it did not disappoint. Great action, good story line, and easy following. Definitely be reading more of Brand.
The story follows a cousin who was taken in by his uncle and his two sons.
They make fun of him, and use his size and strength to do the hard chores they can't do.
He loves to read, and they think he's slow, when he's actually a gentle, simple man.Bull is forced to grow up quickly after his uncle is hurt, and he takes to the trail to find the desperado responsible.
He befriends a young boy, Tod, who shows him how to befriend a black stallion, Diablo, who is a match to Bull's size.
In a nut shell, Big guy gets his confidence.Discovered who he was and who he wanted to be.
this one was great.just could not put it down.
loved it
Great story and Brand shares the secret of the proper way to connect with a horse's spirit.
