https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2523137.The_Moon_Men
Burroughs does a great job detailing the subjugation of the human race by alien creatures from the moon.
However, in typical Burroughs fashion, the hero is over-the-top.
After discovering that he has been blessed with amazing super-strength (no explanation given), this hero goes through the rest of the book rescuing people, breaking out of prisons, wrestling with bulls, taming wild horses, leading revolutions, romancing a beautiful maiden, and breaking bad guys' necks.
For example, during the first prison break scene, our hero is able to escape by simply climbing on top of a shed and jumping over the fence.
This book, which actually contains two short novels, follows up on the events of The Moon Maid.
Orthis, the villain of that novel, has rallied the monstrous Kalkar of the moon and returned to Earth, subjugating its inhabitants to their rule.
Julian 9th, descendant of The Moon Maid's protagonist, struggles to keep his family and lover safe while fomenting rebellion after hours.300 years later, in The Red Hawk, American resistance has been successful and the Kalkars are being gradually pushed east "into the sea." But there are still many dangers for Julian 20th, a.k.a. The Red Hawk, to face.
A sequel to the Moon Maid, in which the moon folk come to earth. I won't give more than that away. I thought it was great.
Too late, to defend themselves, the lunar fleet commanded by Orthis finds Earth to be easy to defeat.
Julian briefly counters the effects of the weapon, the two ships collide and Julian 5th and Orthis both perish .Originally, Burroughs wrote a novel he called Under the Red Flag in which america is invaded and conquered by communist Russia - the Red Scare of 1920 was strong.
The story, though short, is tight.
But in order for the story to work, The Moon Maid had to be written so that a sequence could be established.
Originally titled Under The Red Flag this book tackles communism with gusto, and the unmistakable style of Burroughs!
I didn't realize it was a dystopian book. unusual for ERB. but, I really enjoyed it.
Excellent vintage Burroughs
Burroughs' depiction of a life in which everyone's speech must be guarded for fear of arrest was likely based on contemporary reports coming out of places like the USSR, and it's believable.The story of the eventual uprising (not to mention the inevitable love interest) feels more like fantasy, and yet even here parts feel quite real.
This innovation is to Burroughs’ credit since the denouement is a powerful and tragic one, showing good people sacrificing their lives for their culture and beliefs.The Moon men (rather like some of the natives of Burroughs’ Venus) are a thinly veiled portrait of Communists with their spies, secret police, mining camps for dissidents and their anti-religious stance, added to which, all citizens (or at least the males) are required to call each other ‘Brother’.What is standard here is the romance since fairly on in the book Julian falls in love with a woman on his first meeting with her.
Se dico "Edgar Rice Burroughs" sono purtroppo in pochi che capiscono a cui mi riferisco: se dico "Ta
It's centered in Chicago and while there are still a few trains running most technology has fallen into disrepar since humans are forbidden from using it and the Kalkars are interested.
There also are a few people who practice Christianity in secret and even have an old American flag (two things that are also forbidden).
Julian 20th (the Read Hawk) and his allies live a life inspired by American Indians.
They still have the Flag, but it has become their diety.I found it interesting that religion played such an important role in these books.
The dystopia books published more recently that I have read haven't bothered to give the people any religion.
The Moon Men?
Please!The first book in the series, The Moon Maid, found our hero crash-landing into a moon crater where he finds some primitive societies living in the moon's interior.
Primitive, that is, until the interference of his enemy in the first book.This book finds an ancestor of that hero from the first book fighting right here on Earth for the freedom we now too often take for granted.
For the descendants of those moon inhabitants have now invaded the Earth.
Totally unexpected and totally awesome!This book turns out to be one of Burroughs best.
The second book, taking place more than 300 years after the first book, is more of the typical ERB; i.e. hero gets captured, makes escape, gets the girl, and wins the war.
There was some character development here and I found it interesting that the hero's brother was the "enlightened" one.
The hero makes some progress towards changing his world view but in the end, remains the action-oriented adventurer.
That doesn't mean its bad, just typical ERB.
When I read ERB I am always amazed that he wrote his stories so long ago and yet had amazing insight on problems of today and tomorrow.
Enjoy reading "The Moon Men".

This is typical Edgar Rice Burroughs.
A hero with a perfect body and moral code, a beautiful woman to save and mean, ugly enemies to vanquish.
These ugly enemies are Kalkars who came from the moon!
Burroughs' copyright for this work is 1925 and yet he has an underlying theme of man's waste and destruction of the planet.
His opinion, with which I agree, is no matter what we do to phuck up our world, it will survive after we and our pollution are gone.
Nature will reclaim the earth and it will survive until the sun dies.
This book was a pleasant surprise.
I tend to manage my expectations when reading the middle book of a trilogy, particularly when dealing with a pulp writer.
While the first book in the trilogy, The Moon Maid, was a typical Burroughs fish out of water story, this book moves the story in an entirely different direction, with the invasion of Earth by the moon men.
Burroughs tackles some difficult themes here - socialism, pacifism, patriotism - but in the end has crafted a story that is as relevant today as it was when it was written in 1925, between the two World Wars.
This was a slog to get through after the grand adventure of,The Moon Maid. The first part of,The Moon Men dealt with the occupation of earth by the Kalkars, thinly veiled stand-ins for Russian communists. Much of the narrative is taken-up with ERB's negative critique of the Reds. Red Hawk,a separate story in the volume, is also a sequel to, The Moon Maid and a bit more rousing, with Julian 20th, a pseudo-Indian leader, head of the resistance against the Kalkars.
This is a unique book by Burroughs. It is essentially a political tract, warning of the dangers of fascism. There is very little of the adventuring daring-do that marks Burroughs' other works. It is a bleak, dystopian warning, undoubtedly inspired by the events going on in Europe at the time it was written. As such, it is an interesting historical artifact, but it's not something a typical Burroughs reader would gravitate to.
This book was quite a bit better than I expected. Burroughs isn't someone I necessarily look to for writing style, but this one was a cut above some of his others. It definitely didn't end how I was expecting it to, but I'll refrain from spoilers here in case someone plans to read the book. I'll write more later.
A most enjoyable set of stories, features the 2nd and 3rd books in the trilogy called The Moon Men. I'm familiar with Burroughs' Mars books, this was a new series for me. Easy to read, lots of adventure, heroism. Most entertaining.
2nd in series of 3 books. Moon Maid is Book 1. The Red Hawk is book 3.This is a good post-apocalyptic tale. Written before the nuclear age it nonetheless paints a vivid picture of war and its aftermath. It has kind of a surprise ending. Especially for Burroughs.
This is clearly a series of books for the SF fan. Invasion from the Moon that last for centuries. I was thrilled by them as a teenager. I loved them again a few years ago. I really have enjoyed Edgar Rice Burroughs writings all of my life.
5 stars filtered through the lens of time and nostalgia. I loved this book when I was 13 years old.
4 stars until the ending ruined it.
Can I give this one 6 stars? One of my favorite books, read 3 times!
A rather depressing end to Burroughs fantastic timeline, but quite well executed
nice quick post-apocalyptic story... perfect for a lazy day read
Very good sequel to the first book. Great SiFi by a master that started the Genre. Recommended
