https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/240691.The_Murder_of_My_Aunt
I call it a 'mystery of sorts' because just reading the paragraph on the back cover tells you that Edward has decided to murder his aunt.
Yes, yes it is.)Edward and his aunt Mildred live together in an unpronounceable Welsh town.
He's the narrator of this story and he paints quite the picture of his privileged life.Edward and his aunt are old sparring partners, playing a nasty game of one-upmanship from morning til night.
One day, he decides he's had enough...I love Golden Age mysteries, and am really surprised that I'd never heard of Richard Hull until now.
The Murder of My Aunt, first published in 1934, is Richard Hull’s debut novel and another Poisoned Pen Press find.
Hull, that rare breed – an accountant turned author – has a wit and darkness that many other Golden Age mystery novels lack.
Hull’s writing style hasn’t aged a bit, but I found the middle of the novel to drag a tad and, admittedly, I tired of everyone – Edward, his aunt, the neighbors, the servants and the dog, and I’m a dog fan.
I’m confident that I’m just not the ideal reader for this novel, but it will delight the majority of Golden Age fans.
When I requested the book, I more or less knew what to expect as the author's name was not unfamiliar to me although I had never read anything by him.
Edward Powell, living and dependent financially for some family reasons on his aunt, makes a decision to get rid of her as this is the only way to have money and leave Wales of which he is tired.
Both Edward and Aunt Mildred do their best to make life miserable for each other and they wage a silent war but at the end there is only one winner.
She cast in my teeth my early departure from that grim establishment, about which she was obviously cheerfully, and without question, ready to believe the worst; she abused my friends, my books, my tastes, my clothes, my morals (oh yes, we had all the Mary business over again with some new chapters founded on an alleged incident of the last few days); she slated me like a fishwife for being a lazy slacker, a ne'er-do-well, an idler, "a sponger on my bounty who hasn't even the decency to admit that he is sponging"; she descended to personalities even.
ABOUT THIS BOOK: Edward Powell lives with his Aunt Mildred in the Welsh town of Llwll.
I didn't much like Edward, nor his Aunt Mildred.
But it is also interesting that some things don't change, like the 'idlers' and 'slackers' who seem to believe that the world owes them a living.
All in the family... 5 starsEdward Powell is an unhappy young man. He lives with his annoying Aunt Mildred who, as his guardian and trustee of his inheritance, holds the purse-strings, rather too tightly in Edward’s opinion. To make matters worse, he’s forced to live in the family home in a small village in Wales, surrounded by landscape and hills and sheep and all that awful stuff, when he should be mingling with artists and bright young things in one of the fashionable hotspots of the world. R
The title gives a broad hint, so it’s not a spoiler to say that the book is about Edward’s plan to murder his aunt.
Now I’m a bit like Hercule Poirot in that I don’t approve of murder, but in Edward’s defence I have to admit that Aunt Mildred really asks for it – she finds fault with everything Edward does (with some justification), nags him constantly and is not averse to shaming him in public.
This is a battle of two people who are opposites in every way except for their desire to come out on top.Edward’s voice is what makes the book so special.
With such insurmountable burdens being placed on him, is it any wonder that Edward decides to set about murdering his aunt?The Murder of My Aunt is not a whodunit, but rather a “how will he do it [in the end]” and a “can he possibly get away with it?” The story is mainly told in the form of Edward’s diary, in which he records both the flagrant unreasonableness of Aunt Mildred and others he encounters and his various plots and plans to bring about his aunt’s premature (but oh so necessary) demise.
It’s called an inverted mystery because, unlike your usual mystery, we know who the murderer is from the start, and the story is more of a whydunnit, howdunnit, and what happened along the way.A few years after Iles’s book, in 1934, Richard Hull gave readers his own version of the inverted mystery.
The current book is a republication that is part of the British Library Crime Classics collection.First-person narrator Edward Powell is miserable living in rural Wales with his critical and righteous aunt.
This was fab! A dark and witty romp :-)
It is in many ways a battle of wits and wills between Edward and his Aunt Mildred.
The aunt, feeling bad for the frequent heavy bundles the mailman is forced to lug up, insists that Edward must walk down to the village to get them.
It seems in many ways, his entire life was a failed gay conversion program.I can see how The Murder of My Aunt appeals to some people.
However, I think his Aunt Mildred created him.
He is totally dependent on his aunt who is the opposite of him.
A strong, capable woman she sees through him totally, but a promise is a promise and one she intends to keep to her long dead sister to provide a home for her son.That he intends to murder her by one means or another is the story and when one fails, he tries another.
That he journals all these attempts shows his mental capabilities and the fact is that Aunt Mildred is aware of everyone of them and even of his plans before the execution of them.A British Crime Classic with a superb ending.
In an amusing plot, Edward tries to kill his Aunt Mildred. I didn't really care for Edward who lacked ambition, with the exception of ridding the world of his aunt, or Aunt Mildred, who was too controlling. I really wanted something with more of an investigation. We don't really get any sense of any suspicion that follows through with investigation until the final chapter. The structure is different, but I did not like it. I received this advance review copy through NetGalley with the expectation of an honest review.
Meet Edward Powell, a tubby, effete, dandified self-styled aesthete.
One day, after an insult too many, Edward decides that he will murder his aunt.
(Hardly a spoiler, considering the title.) He begins to keep a hidden diary of his plans, although Edward bumbles about a bit in trying to find a method that will appear an accident.
His debut novel proves truly funny as the un-self-aware Edward casts about for a way to murder Aunt Mildred while not attracting the notice of the authorities.
I really did enjoy this, although I almost went for 3 stars instead of 4. I laughed when the unremittingly sour narrator couldn't get through a walk in the countryside without criticizing an "irritating bird" and a "stupid rabbit" for example. But I got a bit bogged down in the last third or so. The descriptions of each poison the narrator considers are so thorough and I was feeling impatient. In the end though, it's very funny and original and memorable.
Fans of British mysteries will be grateful for the re-issue of Richard Hull's classic from the 1930's.
I would love to have the opportunity to discuss this book with a group of classic mystery aficionados --- it's lack of subtlety is part of its uniqueness and I know it would stimulate a fascinating discussion.Thank you, NetGalley for providing me the opportunity to read this book in exchange for an unbiased review.
The two main characters are Mildred Powell, a horrid woman, and her wretched nephew Edward.
It is the reader’s great good fortune to watch them.As is obvious from the title, the main thrust of the story is Edward’s quest to kill his aunt.
I don’t like spoilers in general, but I especially do not want to spoil your enjoyment of the twists and turns, so I will say no more on that subject.I am very grateful to the British Library Crime Classics editors, and to Martin Edwards for writing his excellent forwards to these resurrected literary gems; I have been reading a lot of these books lately and enjoying them very much.
3,5 estrellas
"The Murder of My Aunt" is a mystery that was originally published in 1934.
The story is written as if it is a diary written by the murderer.
He writes down all of the details about his plans for murder, and he hides the diary in his room.
His aunt provides a home and an income for him, so he lives with her even though he hates her control.
The story was lightly humorous.
Overall, I'd recommend this enjoyable mystery.I received an ebook review copy of this book from the publisher through Netgalley.
None of the characters in this tour de force is likeable--which is unexpectedly part of the charm.Edward has to live with his aunt in Wales, because she controls the family money. They are not compatible souls--he reads French novels, drives a sports car, and adores his pekingese; she gardens, drives an ancient Morris, and has fox terriers. In his diary Edward records the development of his plan to change his situation for the better. First published in 1935, this is still a lively and engaging romp, with an unexpected ending.
I love the British Library Crime Classics, but it is probably a false expectation on my part that I will enjoy all of them equally.
This one, e.g., simply was not hitting the spot which is mainly due to the humor.
When you have a funny tale like this about a young man, who is dependent on his aunt and plots to kill her because she annoys you and it is told in this "lanky" way, then it either makes you laugh or it will end up getting on your nerves.
Edward annoyed me so much by the end of the book, I was ready to murder him!
This little book was recommended to me years ago by Bruce Taylor, owner of The San Francisco Mystery Bookstore. (Taylor, by the way, is one of the reviewers in "1001 Midnights," an essential reference for mystery readers .) "The Murder of My Aunt" is quirky, funny and very clever ... and it is one of my favorite stories of all times.
As you all know I am a pushover for the British Library Crime Classics and this is no exception. It is very funny, very easy to read and with a wonderful twist at the end. A little gem of a book. Ideal weekend material.Toast
As I read this book, I kept thinking how circumstances that may be easily avoided are allowed to fester and take on lives of their own in a way that manages to create deep chasms of hatred and discontent between people who would otherwise have been merely indifferent to each other.
Certainly by the end of book I knew much more about the best ways to kill a person as prevalent in the 1930’s.
It was immensely funny to watch Edward trying to be clever when most of the people around him had figured out his plans.The ending of this book was very surprising.
In an unpronouncable town living with a devilishly clever aunt, Edward Powell is convinced his life would improve immeasurably after the “Murder of my Aunt”.Edward decides to play a battle of wits to the death with his Aunt Mildred.
To reach his goal, Edward only has to murder Aunt Mildred and not get caught.
He settles on tampering with the car’s steering and brakes in the hope that Aunt Mildred will careen off the mountainous road near their home.
Any fans of Donald Westlake’s Dortmunder gang will certainly see parallels between Murder of My Aunt and the Hot Rock.
Murder of My Aunt was originally published in 1934.
Reviewed for The Bibliophibian.The narrator of most of this book is, by design, pretty repugnant — and honestly, I find the other characters so too, even when we get a little glimpse of the other side of the story.
There’s something satisfying in Hull’s skill about putting together these characters, but at the same time it feels like it would’ve worked better as a short story.
Enough time to get the gist, without enough to start getting truly frustrated by the general horribleness (and stupidity, too).It’s an entertaining enough read, but I was glad when it was over, too!
He would much rather prefer to do his own thing, read his books and spend his time as he wants.
He wants to get away from the little town in Wales where he lives but knows that she will never leave her home.
So he begins to hatch a plot to do away with her, and then inherit, and move off to live his life the way he prefers.
Little does he know that his aunt is aware of what he is doing, and laughing at him the entire time, but just when he thinks he might succeed, the tables are turned....GREAT BOOK.
Edward Powell lives with his Aunt Mildred in the Welsh town of Llwll.
His aunt thinks Llwll an idyllic place to live, but Edward loathes the countryside – and thinks the company even worse.
In fact, Edward has decided to murder his aunt.Edward is an unlikable character – childish, selfish, spoiled, self-absorbed, and judgmental.
And since the book is told in his voice, he becomes just annoyable.
When this was published in 1934, it was lauded as a “darkly humorous depiction of fraught family ties.” The book, unfortunately, hasn’t aged well.I was provided an eARC by NetGalley.
This was another happy find from the British Library Crime Classics - four good reads and counting.
The series is my favorite discovery at NetGalley, and I appreciate the opportunity to read this book.The unfortunate Edward is unable to afford to live apart from his aunt, who controls the pursestrings.
It would be a good read for cozy fans who don’t need to like the protagonist.
I was expecting something a bit darker from the description, and may have been in the mood for a darker book when I read it.
This was almost a four-star read for me, and might easily be for many readers.
Full disclosure: I’m grateful to NetGalley for the free advance copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.I give this book a solid 3 stars.This was a unique book for me, perhaps because it’s set in Wales by a British author, and perhaps because it was originally written in 1934.It’s also unique to me because it’s the first time I didn’t like any of the characters in the book, but I was still compelled to keep reading, wondering what was going to happen next, and how it would end.
One such clash over delivery of some novels for Edward from the post office soon escalates, leading Edward to formulate a plan, which will once and for all take care of all his concerns and ensure he is never held in contempt by his aunt!The book blurb says, that “this classic mystery is considered a masterpiece of the inverted detective story, in which it is known “whodunit.” I could not have described it better; turning the whole concept of “whodunit”, Mr. Hull, from the beginning keeps the reader is in confidence of the who, but is left wondering on how and what finally did happen.
Edward despises everything about Wales and longs to leave his aunt and the home behind.
The story comes to a surprising conclusion, totally unexpected.Neither Mildred or Edward is an attractive character.
Each in his or her own way represents the worst of British landed gentry of the time (the 1930's), without any of their positive features.Edward narrates most of the story via "notes" in the form of a diary and readers get to see his stupidity and ignorance first hand.
It's an interesting structure.The story is as much a social satire of the landed gentry, as it's a murder mystery.
