https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161656.The_Tail_of_Emily_Windsnap
Emily Windsnap’s life changes in a split second during swim practice.
You see, she’s a mermaid.
Was it even his choice?Emily is a lot like the heroine from HAVE YOU SEEN JESSICA JENKINS?
She’s a great kid whose life is complicated.
I prefer that to a heroine with a seemingly perfect life.
The world-building is extremely underdeveloped.
So underdeveloped I could basically say that there isn’t any.
Predictable to the reader—they know more than the heroine at all times—which in this case is unfortunate, but once again I anticipate creativity and mystery in the sequels.
Let's be honest, this book helped me be strong through bullying, with its magical worlds(first 'revi
The plot idea is interesting - a seventh grade girl finds out she's a mermaid when her legs become a tail the first time she's submerged in water for swim lessons - but the writing itself is weak (unless you like books with manipulative "you aren't my friend unless you do this" girl talk).
The speech Emily gives Neptune, the sea god, at the end is suppose to be a moving defense of love and families but came across as trite.
I understand that the author might be trying to show his imperfections, but how can someone be a god, when they're just as petulant as the seventh grader who's lecturing them?The final straw for me was when the author described Emily's height.
A fascinating book about a girl who discovers herself is a mermaid, and she explores the secrets of her life.
Although she lives on a house boat, her mother is deathly afraid of water so Emily's never been swimming.
When she finally takes swimming lessons in school, low and behold she discovers she's a mermaid.
Well, sort of...she's got legs when she's out of water, and a tail when she's immersed in water.Emily is especially endearing because she's always been a bit of an outsider.
She doesn't have a best friend, and doesn't quite fit in with the girls in her school.
When she finally finds a mermaid best friend it's so endearing it's almost embarassing.There's a pretty sappy, unrealistic ending, but what are you gonna do?
;)Since my thoughts on this book are pretty 50/50, I’ll start with what I disliked so we can end on a positive note.
Personally, this is not something I like seeing portrayed in a kids’ book.
Believe it or not, one of the most normal characters in this book was “Mystic Millie”, and while it was pretty clear that all her stuff was fake, there were many mentions of auras, reflexology, etc., and a “hypnosis” session on the main character.3.
(hide spoiler)]Things I Liked1.
:D That’s pretty much what I read the book for, and it definitely didn’t disappoint!
Mom and Emily’s picnic.
I first read this book in 5th grade and ended up re-reading it and buying the box set in high school for the nostalgia. As a children's book I really loved it so much and it just fed my still on-going dream of being a mermaid.
This book talks all about mermaids and a mermaid’s life.
Emily Windsnap is the main character who does not know she is a mermaid.
The second main character is Emily’s mom who also does not know that Emily is a mermaid.
It is fiction because it talks all about mermaids.
If you like mermaids then this would be a great book for you.
If mermaids and mermen were real, then they would like this book as well.
The purpose of the work is to get people to be more interested in mermaids if they are not already.
It is even a better book if you are interested in mermaids.
While this book was written for children, it captivated this grown-up to the point of needing to know NOW.
It is a rare book that delivers both suspense and satisfaction in this day and time when making a statement or being artistically significant seems to be more important to authors than entertainment.
Don't get me wrong, this story delivers some important lessons, but not at the expense of the savory enchantment that fills its pages.
If you have reading girls in your life, they will love this book and be begging you for the sequels.
"Hooks" is the perfect word for this book about the sea and life therein.
Read this book to my 7 year old daughter.
My daughter didn't enjoy this book either, even though I tried to keep my irritation and boredom to myself.
We also discussed at length how unkind they were to one another, and how selfish they were, eg Emily emotionally blackmailing Shona to take her on a huge, tiring journey to see her father in Mermaid prison, telling her that if she was really a best friend, she would do it for her (illustrating and condoning some very disturbing and manipulative behaviour).
***Rated by my daughter***
The Tail of Emily Windsnap is an enchanting story about a girl, Emily, who is part mermaid.
Emily tries to understand why she is like this as she swims through the ocean.
Emily and her friend work together to solve her family mysteries while building their friendship, and trying to stay away from the evil dictator of the mer-world.
The adventures in the ocean are fun to read, and I think middle grade girls would love this book.
Not only does the reader get to experience the fantasy world of mermaids, but the story is creative, and includes action and suspense.
You know that book you read as child and randomly find at the library and think "can it possibly be as good as I remember?" Sometimes the answer is an unequivocal yes (see: anything by Beverly Clearly), other times a disheartening no (see: the Mandie series).
Sometimes they're so bad you're a bit embarrassed to admit you read and loved them in the first place.
As I read the book, I could see the appeal - I bet as a 7 or 8-year-old I would have loved this book.
So, ask yourself "am I an 8-year-old girl?" If the answer is yes, have at it!
I think the book The tail of Emily Winsnap is a great book bacause it is iniersting and it is a book where a girl discovers she is a mirmade.Emily and her mom have been living on a boat her hole life.Her mom has never said a word about her father but she knows she will figer out something.
One day when Emilys at a pool her legs start to cramp,and she feels as her legs come together forming a tail.She doges out of the pool and knew something strange happened.That night she sneaks away to the ocean finding out she is a mirmade.Will Emily be able to keep her secret?
Read the book The Tail of Emily Winsnap!
This seemed like a story someone would write if they were told they HAD to put out another book in a certain time frame, so they just picked a formula and threw it together.
It had very little development behind it.
And I didn't find the characters believable, which was too bad, because even a formulaic story (which, let's face it, stories are basically formulaic) can be saved if the characters are believable.
So this was a disappointing first encounter with Liz Kessler books, which looked promising; but I'm reading Philippa Fisher's Fairy Godsister and so far it is much, much better.
I really liked this book because it kind of expresses how people feel while going through change even if it isn't as dramatic. This book shows that even after life changing events things can still turn out for the better. Also it describes how people this age handle things.
Seit meiner Kindheit liebe ich Arielle - Die kleine Meerjungfrau, daher bin ich auch heute noch sehr anfällig über Geschichten über Meerjungfrauen.
So auch Emilys Geheimnis...Die Geschichte ist sehr unterhaltsam und beschreibt die Entwicklung von Emily zur Meerjungfrau sehr gut, denn zu Beginn weiß sie dies noch nicht.
Glücklicherweise wird nicht zu lange drumherum geredet und Emily entdeckt sehr schnell was mit ihr los.Emily ist ein sehr sympathisches Mädchen und hatte sehr viel Spaß sie bei ihren Entdeckungen in der Meereswelt zu begleiten.Die Meereswelt wird sehr gut beschrieben und ich konnte mir alles gut vorstellen.
Ich freue mich schon auf weitere Abenteuer mit Emily.
Her new middle school is ten times bigger than elementary school and so confusing to her but not everyone else, her best friend is no longer her best friend, she is being picked on and she wonders why mom has never really told her about her dad.
Kessler hints at a unique history between the merfolk and the humans which will be fun to explore in upcoming books.This is entertaining enough for adults and children and a wonderful read to share.
Emily sneaks off without her mom's consent and pushes her new friend to help her obtain her goals.
No es un libro de esos que a uno le cambian la vida, pero es bueno en el sentido de que se amolda a lo que pretende ser.Es una novela fantástica y para chicos de 8 a 12 años. Tiene vocabulario sencillo pero no está forzado ni trata al lector como a un idiota (que a veces pasa en libros para estas edades). Tiene un lindo mensaje, una aventura atrapante (aunque todo es muy predecible) y se lee rápido.Sep, es ideal para los lectores jóvenes. Esta es una muy buena novela para el público de la edad marcada.
The Tail of Emily Windsnap is a great fantasy book about a 12 - year - old girl discovering who she is.
All of her life Emily has stayed away from oceans and pools, thanks to her mother's warning of water being dangerous and scary.
After many nights of sneaking out of her house, she discovers an entire mermaid world near where her and her mother live.
Upon this discovery, Emily bravely fights through battles to find out more about how she became a mermaid and about her family's background.
The book is fast-paced and a little mysterious at times.
It is a good book, but not something to read aloud.

Her mom and dad divorced a couple years ago when she was very little.
Emily has always liked to swim, but her mom never let her.
One day she took a swim lesson at her school and something very strange happend when she got into the water.
A couple days after she swam she found out that she was half human half mermaid.
I give this book 4 stars because it was a really interesting book and it's very different from some of the books I read.
I would recommend this book to anyone who likes a different story and that enjoys adventure.
Girl discovers she turns into a mermaid in water. Fine as it goes, but I wish the mermaid society had been a *little* more imaginative. Basically, it's exactly the same as human society: kids go to school, there are shops, government, courts and jail, etc. Even the author seemed to forget they were underwater (as when a mermaid pulls out a hankie to wipe away a tear.) Just disappointing.
My daughter was given this as a Birthday gift and we just finished reading together as our before bed chapter book. It was very enjoyable for me as well as for her -- a good mystery and well written too. It's always great when we find a book we both enjoy and that is appropriate for both kids and adults.
This is a really really good book! I brought this book along with me even when i went to Korea!! (and I live in Malaysia). Emily, a half-mermaid, tries to save her father imprisoned for having a relationship with her mother. and in the end, the happy family were together again.
it was good nothing compared to any of the twilight books but still realy good!
I think that this book could be better but the series is amazing my favorite book is Emily windsnap and the monster of the deep!!!!!!!! ❤❤
I'll admit, I don't like listening to 12/13 year olds bemoan their life and how the world is against them, so reading about it in a book wasn't really my cup of tea.
I'll be very interested to see if this changes in later books.All this to say that Liz Kessler's writing in this context is spectacular, she perfectly captures the mind of a 12 year old who's thrust into a entirely new world.
The book The Tail of Emily Windsnap is about a girl who finds out she is really a mermaid in the water and a person on land.
After a long time they decide to help out and tell her mother but it seems her "Friend" has wiped out her memory.
They go throguh to the King but it looks like they have a lot of convincing to do.I can connect to the world how many people grew up without one of their fatherly or motherly figures.
People in the world grew up without their father from death, or divorce.
It is about a girl who finds out that she is a mermaid and she goes in seeking for her father in the sea.
But trouble is at the end of the book when Emily gets caught.
Wouldnt it be so cool if you were like Emily Windsnap to be a half human and half mermaid.
You can be a mermaid and travel with Emily on her journey if you read this book.
Just like any fairytale story, very similar to the little mermaid, it takes you off to a world of make believe.
Then this book is right for you.
