https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56893.Princess_Daisy
People keep falling in love, getting tragically killed, losing their money in stock crashes, and things like that.
The weirdest thing of all, however, is that even though most of it is just nonsense cobbled together from movies and trash novels, she actually does know a lot about fashion.
So you'll be having some absurd seduction scene, and suddenly she'll break off for a detailed, apparently very sophisticated description of what the woman is wearing.
If you're the sort of person who enjoys leafing though old copies of Vogue (one of my best friends does), it's by no means impossible that you will enjoy this book!
Judith Krantz is one of the best writers in this genre (yes, to me trashy novel is a genre) and "Princess Daisy" is the perfect combination of glamorous people, soap opera worthy plots and just enough sleaze.
Judith Krantz is actually a really good writer.
I'll probably be in the mood to read this again someday but as it is the sort of book that always finds its way to Book Sale counters, I'm pretty sure i can find it again when i need it.
Pure nostalgia drives me to adding these books to my reading lists. Once upon a time it was one of the best books I've ever read. But that was when I was trying to find my own identity.
Read this one a long, LONG, time ago when I was a teenager.
Its a good book for a teenager who wants very little meat to their book, but a lot of juicy.
Like a lite beer, no calories & less filling.I will say that I remember this book, its characters, settings, and plot like the day I first read it.
That stands to reason Judith Krantz is a good writer, it does stick with you when you've read it.I wouldn't recommend it to anyone looking for a good mental read.
If you want some fluff that is just fun to read, this is a good book for you.
The movie is even more fun. Ringo Starr is in it (for those like me who love to watch him in lots of bad movies), and Rupert Everett manages to appear both gay and hot for his sister at the same time.
This is one of those books that I snuck from my aunt's bookshelves when I was a poorly supervised early teen-ager :-) Looking back on it, it is a total campfest however I have to say that at the time, it fascinated me to no end and I think I ended up permanently hiding it and re-reading it many times.
The high rating is a shout-out to those years where I was tentatively trying to explore the "forbidden fruit" through the safest way imaginable, the pages of a book, and Princess Daisy delivered on all fronts.
I will always have a fond memory of this book and Judith Krantz for that reason.
This week’s blog entry is dedicated yet again to the oeuvre of Judith Krantz, most specifically to PRINCESS DAISY, one of...http://sleaze-factor.blogspot.ca/2016...
Creampuff contemporary romance novel full of family secrets, too beautiful heroine and plenty of scenery chewing. Still fun, however.
This is the kind of romance novel that gives romance novels a good name.
The people are glamorous whether they're wealthy or poor.
The locations are evocative - New York, Venice, London, central coast of California.
The plot is not about getting the guy but about the girl coming into her own.
The bad guys are vanguished, the good guys come back from the brink of ruin and everything ends happily.
I read this book because it was mentioned in Dark Currents as the main character's namesake and her mother's favorite book.
My life hasn't been enriched by reading it but my time was spent pleasantly.
Instead, this pattern continues, introducing each new character with tons of backstory, and staging very little of the "action" in front of the reader.It was really very exhausting to read and took quite a long time, which was surprising, because I very recently read another book by this author that was almost a hundred pages longer, but took me almost a week less to read.The plot of the book, which was mostly just the life of the main character, with a lot of interpersonal (and intrapersonal) conflict, was decent enough.
A book a long time in my collection of undetermined source. Krantz's fictitious version of a princess in America, supposedly inspired by the story of Grace Kelly. About two thirds through this book I had yet to find a character with whom I could identify — all royalty and/or extremely wealthy and powerful. It contained, however, one of the best written seduction scenes I've ever read, and, I have to admit, I shed a couple of tears during the last few pages. I enjoyed it enough to add the author's other books to my reading list.
read this one when I was a teenager and decided to revisit it. it was probably one of the first "trashy" novels I ever read. I remember I loved the movie. the book was as I remembered, long and very detailed and a good way to pass time and escape for a while. sometimes you need a fluff book in between the classics and serious books.
A lot of blah blah blah after the first third. Having read this previously, ages ago, I skimmed most of the second half, Daisy's life in advertising far more in depth than I thought necessary. The end, however, was as stirring as always.
Yes. This is a totally cheesy book. I found it in a library on vacation when I was like 17 and I loved it. LOVED it. I love to reread it. It is the perfect combo of romance, cheese and hilarity. Great for a summer read, not great for an in depth conversation.
It was a good book and a good miniseries with Lindsay Wager, Stacy Keech, Robert Urich. A movie star marries an exiled Russian Prince. They have twin daughters, but when he sees that one of this is mentally retarded, he institutionalizes her and tells the mother that she died. When she later discovers that he lied to her, she leaves him and moves back to the states. She is killed and the twins are returned to Europe where he once again separates them. The movie scene of the separation was wrenc
It was a good book and a good miniseries with Lindsay Wager, Stacy Keech, Robert Urich.
A movie star marries an exiled Russian Prince.
She is killed and the twins are returned to Europe where he once again separates them.
The movie scene of the separation was wrenching.
Daisy, the normal one, grows to love her father, but he is killed in a plane crash when she is a teenager.
He incestually falls in love with Daisy and rapes her, she leaves and eventually makes it one her own, falls in love with Robert Urich's character and lives happily ever after.
I read this because it was mentioned in another book i recently read, and because I had never actually read a Judith Krantz novel.
It wasn't bad, just not the style of writing that i normally read.
My mom loved this one, and when she saw i was reading it she gushed 'Oh i loved that book!!
I respected Daisy so much, she had such a hard life and worked so hard!' Which surprised me more than anything else, my mom remembered the plot of a popular novel from 30 years before.
Be still my heart, this one is a classic.
First published in 1980, Princess Daisy was a very big part of my introduction to the romance genre.
The story has stuck with me, even all these years later.
It’s got everything: glamour, angst, romance, a hidden twin, and as many twists and turns as an epic melodrama.
Plus there’s a beautiful princess with a tragic past and a heart of gold.
She loses everything and is forced to rebuild her life as a commoner who paints portraits for a living.
That’s the mark of a great story!
Holding the mother of all unpopular opinions, I was totally fascinated by the character of Ram and loved the intensity of his every scene with Daisy. Basically if this book was all about Daisy and Ram it would get a very bias 100/5 and probably be my most favorite ill-fated (and ill-conceived) love- er- love is not the right word- relationship of faux pas and obsession story of all time.
What can I say? It was the 70s, I was young and reading all this low-brow stuff and I liked it, dammit!
A fun read! Love books that change the way I look at life but sadly this was not one of it. But overall a good read. Fun!
What a pile of trashy junk. Thank goodness my taste has developed and my patience has waned.
I had forgotten all about this book, which I read over 30 years ago, until I saw a goodreads friend's review. I can't rate it - it's been far too long, and I don't think that I want to re-read it. I DO, however, love coming across these long-forgotten titles, and being amazed at what I used to read!
La Krantz mi sorprende di più ad ogni romanzo: ha una tale maestria nel farti entrare fin dalle prime battute nelle storie che narra, da coinvolgerti tanto che non vorresti mai fare altro che andare avanti con la lettura.
Una sola cosa mi chiedo: perchè, come anche in altri suoi romanzi, la Krantz preferisce non descrivere nei dettagli le scene d'amore tra la protagonista e l'uomo che poi si rivelerà l'uomo giusto, mentre lo fa anche nei minimi particolari per tutte le altre storie della protagonista?
Qui non ci sarebbe stata male una descrizione minuziosa della prima volta tra Daisy e Patrick.
Daisy met het zilvergouden haar en de koolzwarte ogen, dochter van prins Stash Valensky en de romantische Amerikaanse filmster Francesca Vernond.
Daisy vecht voor haar onafhankelijkheid in een wereld waarin North, haar roekeloze baas, onmogelijke eisen aan haar stelt; waarin Patrick Shannon, een keiharde zakenman, zijn eigen plannen met Daisy heft en gelooft dat zelfs zíj te koop is.
Maar dan, op het toppunt van haar eigen roem, laat Daisy de liefde toe in haar hart.
Echter dit boek was een apart verhaal dat wel lekker weg las, maar dat 200 pagina's minder had gemogen.
Ondanks dat het boek lekker weg te lezen is, heeft het verhaal me niet echt kunnen bekoren.
I've been struggling to finish this book for two months now.
Well, I really enjoyed the juicy first half; it was the second half that was so slow and boring.
I'd rather have spent more time with the characters themselves and enjoying the plot than wading through endless travelogue-style descriptions and skimming through pages and pages and still more pages of detail about the advertising field.I'm a sucker for 80's glitz and any good, juicy, soap-style saga, but I suspect that Krantz just isn't my cuppa.
For now, I'm going to have to recover from my seemingly endless time with Daisy.Keeper status: No.
This book is hard to review.
Which is undoubtedly a Good Book.
But I found myself getting distracted and wanting some juice so I turned to my old friend; 80s trash.This book is pure trash.
There's also a secret sister, an obsessed half brother, thr last of the courtesans, an exuberant roommate, and a myriad of co-workers.
There was a lot.But.But, this book didn't fall into a lot of traps.
In other words, she wasn't half bad.
And her journey was far from typical for these kinds of books.But, of course (don't worry), there was all the sex, dramatics, and tragedy that you'd expect.
Judith Krantz taught me everything I ever needed to know about the international jet set, the fabulous excess of the late 70/early 80s, and eurotrash.
I give my eternal thanks to her.
Even though her books are ridiculous I totally adore them.I kind of feel like SNL's Stefon saying this but this book has everything: a gorgeous impoverished princess that hypnotizes every man she meets.
A dashing international playboy who plays polo and is apparently a sexual wizard.
A gorgeous film star.
An honest-to-God courtesan.
Glamorous playgrounds around the world.
Incest.
Hidden children.
Horses.
Art. A prowling lesbian.
A Masterly written Novella about a young woman who should have a easy life, but instead ends up with severe abuse, struggle and have to fight for everything. She has so much heart, so much spirit and so much grace that despite all the ugliness around this is a read that you will never forget. It hits straight into your heart! Judith Krantz has many superbly written books to her name, and this one is above all else. It is still fresh within my memory (thats how profoundly it effected me) more than 30years after I read it..
But the story itself was new, a romantic story from a different angle.
How twin sisters can be so very different, how one pays the price for keeping a secret that there's two sisters and not one.
How the one that's visible struggles and how finally the thruth comes out.When I wirte it down now, it seems like nothing new at all, like more of the same.
But, like I said, when I read it first, it made a great impression on me.I do recommend it for people who like romantic stories that have a bit more to it than just romance.
In recent years, as revenge, I've gotten her hooked on paranormal romance novels -- like Sherrilyn Kenyon.
Sweet Revenge!I was in the 10th grade and she dared me to actually finish this book, so I started reading it.
I encountered a highly detailed lesbian encounter while reading after a test in Geometry.
I turned about scarlet red; the guy who sat behing me recommended I NOT read books that are going to make me resemble a tomato in class.
Granted the very next year I read Shogun with all its details.
