https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1884631.The_Cabala
They must have really existed, if not individually, then organically, as composites -- the last remaining artifacts left behind following the destruction of empires in The Great War. Apart from their shared connection to a bygone world they each possess some unique attribute that makes them exceptional and intriguing.Wilder draws a parallel between these displaced characters and the demise of the gods of classical antiquity, after they too were swept away by the rise of Christianity.Wilder's wickedly satiric humour skillfully sends up the absurdities and ridiculous conceits of his protagonists, yet he does so in a kind manner, because at heart he loves them for their eccentricity and we share his sorrow at their ultimate demise.Reading this short novel, I was struck by the fact that Wilder himself also represents a bygone era, one where an education in the classics was considered mainstream.
Глупейший, но обаятельный дебютный роман очень молодого и очень наивного Торнтона Уайлдера))С новой силой заскучала по Риму.
The Cabala by Thornton Wilder is set in Rome in the early 1920’s and is a story that centers on of a group of “Fierce intellectual snobs” who are “very rich and influential.” Thornton divided the novel into Five Books.
Book Five “The Dusk of the Gods” is a dreamlike visitation in which Elizabeth Grier projects the characters of the cabala into a classical background each portrayed as a pagan god or goddess.
The narrator is visited by Virgil, Prince of Poets, who evokes Milton and ShakespeareAs one might guess, not much happens in The Cabala.
It must have been the influence of high school where we were required to read Our Town and The Bridge of San Luis Rey that gave me the idea that familiarity with Wilder was necessary for a liberal education. In any case, I went on to read his Ides of March, and wasn't impressed, and The Cabala, and was even less impressed.
They are rather ironically known as the Cabala.
Nothing!] Our narrator describes a series of Cabala members individually and we learn how they are connected..
You wind up having to keep the hoi polloi away from the gates.
Well, you might form a secret group of the "best people" (i.e. richest and most conservative) and talk incessantly, so seriously unserious.
The word "cabala" ties them together in our imaginations.
THE CABALA was Wilder's first novel.
I wouldn't call this the best novel I've ever read, but it is a fairly charming period piece from a time that was already over when it was written.
От такого названия я ожидала повествования, если и не об учении каббалы, то хотя бы нечто типа «Маятника Фуко» Эко.
Но это вообще не понятно что – что-то типа непутевых заметок Уайлдера о путешествии в Италию и встречи с некоторыми людьми.
Вообще странная книга – он говорит о группе людей, которые объединены между собой неким принципом таинственности, общего презрения к людям, чем-то еще непонятным.
И они ведут «интеллектуальные» разговоры – причем ни одной интересной для меня мысли на страницах книги я так и не обнаружила.
В последней делается попытка объяснить, что это в конечном итоге такое.
И так они и бродят по свету.
Siguen estando profundamente apasionados por cuestiones que el resto de nosotros vemos como elementos más bien propios de anticuarios“.A la mierda con el misterio y, sobre todo, con la fascinación del lector: desde un buen principio, Wilder presenta la Cábala como algo anacrónico… Y, aun así, es incapaz de extirpar en el lector el deseo primitivo de saber más, de ser seducido de la misma forma en la que el protagonista es seducido por esta “organización” (entrecomillada) que le abraza como un miembro más y que empieza a exhibir en su presencia todo un conjunto de miserias que parecen llegadas de otros siglos.
Wilder's first novel, written at age 26 after he had spent a year at the American school in Rome.
But then in what amounts to an afterword entitled "The Dusk of the Gods" we are given the suggestion that all the characters we have seen are the worn-out incarnations of ancient Roman deities, and that the narrator himself is the incarnation of Mercury, the founder of language and eloquence, and also the guide of souls to the underworld.
And there is a beautiful evocation of Virgil's poetry in a long description of nightfall on the Mediterranean, as the narrator sails away from Rome on his way back to America.
While I like Wilder's writing style, which to me seems fairly fresh considering how old it is, this story didn't compel me.
I found it hard to care about rich and powerful (okay, maybe only in their own minds) people in Italy who throw parties and histrionic fits in equal measure.
This is Wilder before he matured as a writer, rather full of himself, but giving us a peek of the promise that would produce Our Town and Bridge of San Luis Rey. An interesting picture of high society "doing the European Tour" post-WWI, but not as engaging as it could be.
A curious but interesting novel, terribly well written, just as its much more famous successor The Bridge of San Luis Rey. The narrator, ostensibly Wilder's alter ego, is a young American writer who gets to know a circle of socialites in Rome, 'the cabala'.
That's about all the plot there is: the narrator is an egoless fly on the wall who describes the socialites' peculiarities.
This results in some very well written and interesting portraits of these super rich royalist conservatives, most of them representatives of a world that was ending.
As well as to rather abstruse musings on matters of faith that don't really hold my interest.
A young American goes to Italy and falls in with a group of powerful but eccentric people. This was Thorton Wilders first novel. The Bridge of San Luis and the 8th day are more accomplished works, but this still has some of those signature Wilder touches that I love. Absurd people do absurd things, and somehow they communicate the most basic and universal truths. Hilarious and moving.
Love his language. Love his way of describing people in just a few phrases so you really understand them. Love the way the narrator is a character without ever revealing too much of himself. Interesting ending. Still thinking about its implications.
This could quite possibly be the most boring book ever written. Great for insomniacs.
Underrated classic.
I'm reading all of Wilder's novels this year in chronological order. This was his first. It reads more like a study of characters than a plotted novel. Some solid and witty prose.
Holy cow. What an amazing writer.
