https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12081.The_Blue_and_Brown_Books
These studies and the work they gave rise to, Philosophical Investigations, are commonly understood as a refutation of the author's previous major work, Tractatus Logic-Philosophic us. I didn't read the Blue and Brown Books as a refutation, as much as a correction, of the system of thought at work in the Tractatus.  That earlier work, as I read it, contained some troublingly bizarre implications and assumptions. It at times seemed to me that Wittgenstein was implying that linguistic information,
It at times seemed to me that Wittgenstein was implying that linguistic information, being understood, could not be refuted- as if our ideas about things never change, or as if a statement could never be doubted- as if lying (on one hand) or misunderstanding (on the other) were not common occurrences, and if we shouldn't then, take such situations into consideration when interrogating the nature of communication and knowledge.
To use a simple example, Wittgenstein points out that what language designates as “different” colors- torqouis, ocean, blue-green, are commonly considered “similar” in that they are sub-categories of “blue.” This implies that there is a unifying concept of “blue” that exists in thought prior to expression.
Reading Wittgenstein put an end to my interest in philosophy. If philosophy is about the kinds of language games that Wittgenstein played, it wasn't worth my time.
I suppose I should have read this before Philosophical Investigations, but this is still a worthy text on its own, and helps clarify some of the finer points of his intricate and complex ideas.Covers language and philosophy of mind well. Need to reread P.I. soon.
(A number of philosophers have made their careers out of producing books based on such notes, on scribblings, on purported utterances of the great man--frankly, I never understood why he should have been taken so seriously except, of course, by way of self-interest and because he's pretty easy to follow.)Ironically, although never greatly impressed by Wittgenstein, my only conference publication in a philosophy journal was about the development of his thinking, the result of Bill Ellos encouraging me to sign up for a conference and even helping me to find funding for the trip.
The Blue Book opens with the question, "what is the meaning of a word?" When asking such general questions, we often define words by thinking of of solid, material objects, like pencils, chairs, and tables.
Wittgenstein uses these games to highlight the different forms of expression, and to point out that although we may think all words share something in common because they can all be expressed as written signs, there actually have very little in common.
For instance, the words "chair," "one," and "this," are not similar.Throughout the Brown Book, Wittgenstein examines words like "recognize," "compare," "believe," "read," "understand," and so on, to show that there is no common feature of all the different uses of these words.
I found myself really excited about the material in the beginning, but thought that the examples he used to illustrate certain points became redundant.
The book was definitely worth getting through, if anything it widened my knowledge of Wittgenstein's thought and natural language philosophy.
I recommend this to anyone who is intrigued by words and their power, the thought of Wittgenstein, modern philosophy, and the meaning behind words.
I do not recommend this to anyone who is afraid of redundant examples, those who are new to philosophy, those who do not wish to expand their definition of "philosophy," and to dogs (because they can't read).
These companion studies help with reading his more 'organized' Logical Investigations because they situate the reader with respect to the project.
The mode of research simply does not mean anything to someone who is attentive to the grammar of the request.
What one means by 'chair' is a matter of grammar.
That he believes the mystery that belongs to language should be dismissed so as not to blind thinking to its proper task which is the working out of complexity.
LW is not kind to the original condition of language which is transparent.
Is that what he means by live language?
Precursors to the more refined works published as the Philosophical Investigations, these Cambridge lectures (for a counterpoint, see his Lectures on the Foundations of Mathematics) reveal Wittgenstein's constant struggle to formulate the body of thought known as "Wittgenstein II" (ie, all that which followed the Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus). Fascinating reading for anyone who enjoyed the PI, although neither here nor in that later tome can the WII program be said to be "complete".
In this clearing-up process, he touches on not only applied linguistics and logic but cognitive psychology, philosophy of the mind, and metaphysics, while at the same time offering, in a haphazard way as far as I’m concerned, solutions t the intractable problems in philosophy like solipsism, the problem of personal identity, the meaning of a word, qualia among others.Some of the insights found in these two notebooks are obscure and probably of no interest to the general public, but nonetheless interesting in their implications: the difference between logical and physical impossibility; the sort of philosophical observer effect where the observation of one’s own cognitive processes interfering with the processes themselves; the problem of rules (“is a rule incompletely explained if no rule for its usage has been given?” “We need have no reason to follow the rule as we do.
He is reaching towards a kind of functionalism -- but he lacks the conception or the language to cogently describe the structures he reaches towards.For example, he introduces different cuts expecting that meaning should be somehow stabilized along the specific expressions.
And in that way he confuses himself when he is able to show that there is no ontological correlation between the units of expression and the functional meaning that comes about.Once we see that he is reaching towards a functionalist view, these books become difficult to assess.
And I always thought Wittgenstein was just a stuck-up rich kid.This book changed my definition of what a philosopher's aim OUGHT to do be.
OUGHT.This is largely known as a revision or re-directing of his Tractatus, and it's interesting in a number of ways:1) A glimpse of how one can (tends to?) modify one's philosophy throughout life - essentially changing it, but not abandoning the general framework.2) Blue book is basically a less-complex transcript of a lecture series - Brown Book, a more rigorous treatment intended for text.
Interesting to note the adaptations of style/language/depth with medium.3)This book REALLY underscores the power/utility of 'plain language' philosophy.Anyway, I'm glad to have read it.
Some intriguing ideas here about meaning & signs in language and thought, particularly the Blue book, though I wanted to like these books more than I did.
Wittgenstein's thesis appears to be that language is a merely set of signs interwoven with our activity in the world, the meanings of which can only be defined by their use within the context and various associations of a language.
Then he beats the premise to death with dozens of language games to explore the problems with language as a set of representative signs.
To think it is would be like saying that the light of my reading lamp is no real light at all because it has no sharp boundary."He wrote the same thing in another elegant way in Philosophical Grammar.
There he compares the usefullness of words to the warmth you feel from a stove.
Maybe no real sharp boundary, but still really useful!
The difference between the relation of the meaning of words to a feeling rather than a seeing seems significant to me as well, but I dont have any real clue as to what the significance could be.

Finished the Blue Book July 10th. It kind of blew a lot of other philosophy out of the water. I'm obsessed with words and exact meanings, though, and so is he. He just clarifies really well what we're really asking or feeling when we're philosophically puzzled.I am not quite smart enough to understand a lot of this. But I think it's largely true.edit 8/4/09: Decided to skip the Brown Book. You can only take so much of this stuff I suppose. Still, I just procured a copy of the Investigations; might give it a try soon.
"O que é o sentido de uma palavra?" e assim começa este livro... Nada fácil. Tendo Wittgenstein começado como matemático "fanático" da lógica totalmente demonstrável, é curioso acompanhar a sua evolução para algo tão subjectivamente distinto, ou seja, Wittgenstein divaga muito sobre a linguagem, mas em simultåneo realça o facto de que a abordagem de um problema (matemático, físico, ou outro) tem obrigatoriamente de ser feita utilizando palavras muito bem escolhidas. Por vezes, palavras que parecem significar o mesmo introduzem barreiras intransponíveis ao nosso entendimento.
This is the perfect warm-up to the Investigations. I think a lot of the misunderstanding and lack of comprehension that a lot of people (including several published, "respectable" scholars) experience with PI is a direct result of their failure to start here. All the main concepts - language games, forms ogf life, etc. - are laid out in their earlier stages, and the break from his picture-theory stuff in the Tractatus is made explicit.
I must be honest and say I did not finish this tome. But I believe that any serious student of philosophy should start with this book as it deals with the core issues of the language we must use in any philosophical discourse and how easily we can be led astray by our choice of words. At least this is how I saw it some 40 years ago.
I won't pretend to understand everything about Wittgenstein (add to that the fact that this is my bedside read, meaning that I might have failed to grasp a lot especially in the moments that I fall asleep), but I guess this is a good start for one who wants to understand the transition from early to late Wittgenstein.
This book is a gold mine of philosophical ideas and questions on language. The first part tackles the question, "If life has a meaning, what would it look like?"I first read this in college but wasn't impressed by it until I really got into photography.
this was an excellent rec from alex temple. never finished it, but what i read i completely loved. makes you think about thinking in an amazingly precise way. felt like a mathematician's thoughts (high praise from me).
central to my worldview
Quite a good stuff on its own!...
after reading the final word of this book, I closed the cover, sat the book on the table next to me, and wrote the first poem of what would become "Dwelling". Inspiring to a language weirdo like me.
i'm finding it difficult to pick up another philosophy book after reading this. absolutely iconoclastic.
I only read the Blue Book so far.
I think this is probably Wittgenstein's best work. Clear and (kind of) to the point. Less BS than his other works.
Only read the blue book for now.
enthralling...
I finished the blue book, which is too complex to get in to here. The brown book is basically an early version of his Philosophical Investigations, so it's more worthwhile to read those.
