https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/495305.The_Lion_s_Paw
Oh my gosh.
Miss Faircloth read this to us in 4th grade (my favorite grade) and I have essentially been looking for it ever since.
So that's twenty years of looking.
The damn thing was only available as an overpriced&shitty paperback or a MAD overpriced&collectible hardcover edition for hundreds and bahundreds of dollars, so I have been SO patient in biding my time coz man.
The heck with money.
Anyway: a couple days ago a guy came in selling books and THERE IT WAS in beautiful lookalike reprint form--the Best Book in My Nine-Year Old World.And I read it and OH MAN.
I read this book several times as a child and I recently read it again.
It is a GREAT book.
It is now out of print, so each paperback sells for $50-$100, but I was fortunate enough to find one in a used book store on Cape Cod a couple of years ago for 50 cents.
If you can get hold of a copy, it is definitely worth the read.***UPDATE*** Because of the demand, Robb White's family that owns the copyright to this book has just re-printed this book again and I found a copy in our local Costco in Utah.
This book was written in 1946 and was a refreshingly wonderful adventure story that I know I would have loved as a child. Nobody has super powers, no body kills anyone, the story speaks to a child's world and their hopes and fears. It is a kind book, like many written around that time. It is not complex, violent or inappropriate. It isn't especially fast moving but is full of adventure, danger and courage. I would be interested to hear the reactions of today's kids who are used to Harry Potter and Hunger Games.I recommend it!
I decided to reread it to see if it held up to my memories of being a great book.
I ended up reading it aloud to my 10-year-old and he loved it too!I believe this book was written in 1945.
The father in this book is reported as missing in the South Pacific and as the story starts up he has been gone so long he is presumed dead.
But there are some great adventures that the characters go through and survive, several of which had us on the edge of our seats.
I'm glad I revisited this book.2017 Reading Challenge #25: A book you loved as a child
Originally published in 1946, THE LION'S PAW brings orphans Penny and Nick, together, with Ben, whose NAVY father is missing.
Penny and Nick escape the orphanage and find themselves upon Ben's boat (which belongs to, and was built by his missing father), as he tries to escape from his uncle (who is planning to sell it).
It's anchors-away, as they send the authorities on a wild ride through Florida's inland waterways and around the Gulf of Mexico, in search of a seashell called the The Lion's Paw; Ben believes if he finds this shell, his father will return.
Ms. Dolan, my 4th grade teacher in 1960 read this book aloud to our class. After all these years, I found it again. It is back in print and a great children's book especially for 2nd - 4th graders. It is set in Florida and was a classic walk through memory lane of how Florida and youth used to be!
This is a favorite from my childhood. Reading it aloud to my kids was magical.
Pure Old Florida magic!
They sail through the lakes and rivers of Florida making their way to the Gulf in search of their freedom and a very special shell, a lion’s paw.I read this right after reading Torre DeRoche’s Love with a Chance of Drowning, a memoir about a woman’s year-long sailing trip across the Pacific Ocean from California to Australia with her Argentinian boyfriend.
This book sorely disappointed me, as I was looking for a fun, adventurous tale of life at sea; instead, the book read like one woman’s attempt to conquer her fears of the ocean and drowning, while never seeming to enjoy her time at sea—rather she viewed it as something to be endured.
I read this as a child living on a sailboat in Florida in the 1970's.
It helped that I understood all of the terms and experiences.Here it it, decades later.
I'm in my 50's now and for some reason I was thinking about this book.
I think it was inspired by watching the TV series "A Series of Unfortunate Events" about orphans.
I couldn't remember the name.
But I put the plot keywords into Google and wow!
The book popped right up and then I recognized the title.I want to reread it as an adult.
I wonder if that will ruin my memory of it?
This is a super fun adventure by one of my favorite authors of all time, Robb White! *fanfare*Robb White has departed from his usual fare of outstanding WWII fiction and given us a classic sailing adventure in the Deep South for children and young adults.Three orphans run away on a sailboat to escape the threat of an orphanage and a domineering uncle. Their adventures make some seriously great reading!! Hooray for Robb White! Expensive as his books may be, they are worth it!
Even though written as a juvenile novel, this is among my two or three favorite books of all time. It's dated but timeless. It climbs from despair to joy. It snatches you into the action and doesn't let you go until the unforgettable ending. I've read it several times -- a day or two can cover it.
This is a classic late 1940's children's adventure story that is set in post-WWII Florida. It perfectly captures the place and the time. The story is a good one, mostly takes place on a sailboat involving runaway orphans.
Excellent old Florida classic from a time when kids had hours of time, unsupervised by adults, to have adventures. It's The African Queen set in Florida — for kids.
A book from my childhood that is just as delightful and lovely as an adult.
The story is told exclusively from the children's points of view, never through the eyes of an adult, which I think effectively pulls the reader into their adventure.
Like in a legend or fairytale, I liked the way the children had to earn a better life than the one from which they were running away, by facing each new challenge however hard or even painful.
Early on, one of the children is said to feel "a little afraid, a little as though everything they were doing was too big for them to do and they would have to stop." Who hasn't felt that way at some point?
The beginning was a bit slow. My class really got into it towards the end.
Most of the reviewers echo the friend who recommended this book when he learned that I read aloud to my children every day and that I call Florida home.
His face lit up as he recalled his third-grade teacher reading Lion's Paw aloud to the class every day at his elementary school in West Palm Beach, Florida.
When his uncle threatens to sell the boat that Ben sees as the only link to his father, Ben sets sail for freedom with Penny and Nick aboard, determined to find an elusive Lion's Paw shell which he believes will return his father to him.The children were captivated by how the orphans (their ages) took off by themselves and overcame all adversity to pursue their goal.
I read this book for the first time in the 4th grade.
Eight years after reading it for the first time, I finally tracked down another copy and was thrilled to find that THE LION'S PAW is just as good as I remembered.
Together they steal the missing father's sailboat and set off in search of freedom, friendship, and the elusive Lion's paw shell that can only be found on certain beaches along the Florida coast, in the hopes that it might bring the boy's father back.
THE LION'S PAW is a story for anyone who still has an inner child alive and well in their hearts.
One of the books I remember most fondly from childhood.
I also loved that the book featured a simple map of the route they took and I remember being impressed that these were real places.Years later I tried to find the book to read to my two boys.
My boys, too, really loved it and were emotional by the the time we reached the dramatic conclusion.
It has all the elements of a great children's book: orphans, runaways, adults who don't understand (and at least one who does) and a battle against the elements.
This book has all the good elements for a GREAT children's book...
orphans, an orphanage, running away, adventure, a mean uncle, (several) shady mean adult characters, some great animal stories, and an ending that I won't mention because it would spoil it!
This book can somewhat stand the test of time although like Huck Finn or Tom Sawyer some explanation might need to be made about some of the references and there is some derogatory language about the Japanese as this was set during World War 2.
My only complaint is that Florida wasn't a big enough character in the book.
I would have liked to read more about the animals, plants, etc.
A friend recently recommended THE LION'S PAW.
The requisite orphans, a brother and sister named Nick and Penny (ages 9 and 12), run away from their orphanage and team up with Ben (15), whose father has gone missing while fighting in World War II.
Ben believes his father is still alive, but everyone else (other than Penny and Nick) is convinced he's dead.
When Ben's unsympathetic uncle decides to sell his father's boat, the three kids set sail, fleeing both Ben's uncle and orphanage officials.
THE LION'S PAW is well written and action-packed.
My first grade teacher read this to my class.
It completely captured my imagination, and I've never forgotten it.As an adult I've searched for it in vain, because it was out of print -- that is until recently.Over Christmas i was able to read it to some of my kids and they loved it as much as I did.It's a simple story, but a classic, in my view.
His uncle wants to sell his father's sailboat, but the boy believes his father is still alive and must save the boat.The three join up for an adventure.
I think this book was very exciting.
The end of the book was very good.
They said no but the man still went and was going to get someone from their orphanage who was near by.
The man returned with the guy and they threated to kill them.
Then, out of now where ben's dad arrives.
The man stared to approach the children and just then bens dad threw a massive punch at the man and knocked him out.
Ben, his dad, Nick, and Penny were safe.
Soon afterward ben adopted Nick and Penny and they all lived happily ever after.
The Lion's Paw is a thrilling adventure in which orphans Penny and Nick escape from the orphanage in search of freedom.
Ben, who is running away from his uncle, assists Penny and Nick in their journey.
Ben felt that when he found a lion's paw, his father would come back from the war.
The three friends search Florida by boat for a Lion's paw.I enjoyed the book due to the excitement and the humor that was put in to this book.
You will have to find out what happens when he picks up a baby.I recommend this book to people who like books about adventures, excitement, and humor.
I bought this book because I read it had recently been put back into print and that it was a beloved book of lots of people.
I read it to my 11-year old son, and while he enjoyed it, we were fortunate that we live around a lot of boats and he was able to understand the many, many boat terminology.
The book had some exciting bits, and some serious "suspend your belief" spots, but that's what a kid's book is for, right?As a parent, I really wish the author could have chosen other words than "said".
My teacher read this book to my 3rd grade class.
I absolutely loved it.
In 5th grade, I tried finding it so I could read it again but couldn't.
Then one day not too long ago, I was walking through Costco and saw a lady standing at a table with a bunch of books.
To my utter astonishment and delight, this book was resting on the table.
I was so excited that I hugged the lady standing there, who happened to be the author's daughter.I finished The Lion's Paw last night, and it was just as great as I remember!
I read many books by Robb White in upper elementary school.
The Lion's Paw was different, a story about three runaways.
I remembered it with great affection and enjoyed re-visiting the story some 40 years after my first reading of the book.
I was surprised by what I remembered and what I did not.
Not sure how the book would be received by kids today as the time period is just after WWII, the story is somewhat quaint compared to what a runaway story would be today.
Fun quick read and nostalgic for me.
My boys and I read this adventure over the summer. We loved all of the characters, especially the resilient, hardworking Penny. For a book that was written over 60 years ago to still keep the attention of modern children, it must be good. The ages of the children in the story are a perfect match for the middle grade children that this book appeals to. The only hindrance that we had, was all of the unfamiliar nautical language. However, we used that as an opportunity to add some new words to our vocabulary. Great book! Highly recommended.
This book was recommended to me by a good friend, and it was definitely a fun read. I found it to be rather intense. Two orphans, brother and sister, who escape the orphanage to join another "orphan" in taking a sailboat from the waterways of Florida to the Gulf of Mexico in search of a lion's paw shell. There's a lot of adventure along the way, and a little heartache as the "orphan" is also in search of his missing father. Overall, it's a good book and I recommend it.
