https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/867387.The_Blessing_Way
Hillerman is chocolate. Read him at the beach, read him before bed, but read him. Then you too will belong to the high plains, the canyons and mesas of the desert Southwest. You will think and speak differently, quietly, thoughtfully. You will find the wound in the floor of the kiva, a melody which is a wound in silence, and you will follow, like Alice down the rabbit hole.
This first book in the Joe Leaphorn series features an exciting conclusion, but it also features two heroes instead of one (Ethnologist Bergen McKee gets more pages than Leaphorn), and I don't think it is always clear where the focus of the novel is supposed to be. The ethnic information about witchcraft beliefs among the Navaho is interesting, but not always properly integrated into the narrative. This is, however, his first detective novel. It is well-written, I hear he is one of the masters of the form, and I look forward to reading more of him in the future.
4 starsThis is the first book in the Joe Leaphorn/Jim Chee series by Tony Hillerman.
Jim Chee does not appear in this book and Leaphorn plays an equal role as protagonist against murderers with ethnologist Bergen McKee. Leaphorn is looking for Luis Horseman, who cut a Mexican in Gallup, New Mexico.
They both try to track down the Wolf Witch, McKee because of his research, and Leaphorn because it may have something to do with Horseman's death.
I like the way Leaphorn gathers clues about the Wolf Witch.There is a great deal of information about Navajo traditions and the way their build their hogans, following the Navajo way.I strongly recommend this series to mystery fans and Native American fans.
It's been mentioned in other reviews, but this particular book does seem to suffer from a bit of an identity crisis: it doesn't quite seem sure of its main protagonist.
This is only book 1, after all, so the characters are still finding their feet at this point.I'll definitely be looking into the next instalment in the series (Dance Hall of the Dead) and in particular Skinwalkers since it seems to be the book that made Joe Leaphorn "famous" (so to speak).Recommended to mystery readers who are looking for something unique, as far as setting is concerned.
I actually read this quite a long time ago and I don't remember the details, but I've never read a Tony Hillerman I didn't like.This is the first of Hillerman's Joe Leaphorn/Jim Chee/Navajo Reservation mysteries, and I read in an interview that it has so many inaccuracies about Navajo culture that it now makes him cringe.
Apparently, though, the Navajo people were quite pleased with his respectful interest in their culture, and they liked the book despite whatever weaknesses it may have.
Of course, he did his homework later, and most of his books are considered to present a pretty accurate picture of traditional Navajo culture.
I usually don't do this, but DNF on page 106. I can't make heads or tails out of what's going on, and I'm bored stiff.UPDATE: 10/23/2015Okay, I finished it. Still stand by my original opinion.
In fact the main protagonist appears to be Bergen McKee, a college professor who returned to the Reservation in order to continue his research of Navajo witchcraft.The story opens with a Navajo in the desert of Arizona fearful for his life.
When he questions Old Woman Gray Rocks he learns about the comings and goings of various Navajo and outsiders.In the meantime Joe Leaphorn observes a two-day Enemy Way ceremony that is supposed to turn the witchcraft back on the witch.
If it were another Navajo a different ceremony would be performed.What really sets this novel apart is Hillerman's knowledge of the geography of the desert and Navajo customs and beliefs.
Picked this up because I was looking for something different from the murder-in-a-small-English-town-thing. Though it took a while to really get going, I found the people and setting interesting, and liked Joe Leaphorn.
Read this book when it first came out.
(Yes I'm old!) Did a re-read, here's my review...When it comes to writing descriptions of the southwest, none can compare to Mr. Hillerman.
I've read a few others in the series and I think the picture of Joe does becomes clearer.
At any rate, we soon lose Joe to a host of other characters, situations, problems, and scenes replete with high tension, some of which are located in the high cliff dwellings of earlier southwest peoples.
That part is fascinating, too.So one star off for the fact Joe is the MC, or maybe not.
Still, a great book and fascinating beginning of a wonderful series.
It may be my best used bookstore impulse buy ever, and I have made quite a few of those.There is not much new I can add to the conversation about the mystery handled by Arizona Navajo Tribal Police Lt. Joe Leaphorn in this novel, being that was originally published in 1970, but I will say two things.
Second, this is a really tight mystery -- while there is some minimal character development, and the setting gets an occasional nod -- the focus is almost entirely on the mystery at hand, which also ties into the Navajo customs of Leaphorn and the people he polices.
This first book in the Leaphorn series, really isn't that great.There's a corpse with sand in his mouth, and a hunt for a missile.The story is pretty simple, really only enough here for a novella, and it drags along. Leaphorn really isn't in it very much, either. Sort of hard to believe it heralded a series that would last over 40 years.
Although Navajo police officer Joe Leaphorn appears in the book, he is a secondary character.
McKee questions Old Woman Gray Rocks and is pleased to find his command of the Navajo language is steadily returning.
He observes the two-day Enemy Way ceremony performed to safeguard Charlie Tsosie and turn the witchcraft back on the witch.
Leaphorn concludes that there is something concrete behind the wolf-witch rumors for the family to pay for this ceremony.
He continued to refine his portrayal of Navajo characters as he proceeded with the series.NOTES:Tony Hillerman died in 2008.
3.5***From the dust jacket: When Lt. Joe Leaphorn of the Navajo Tribal Police discovers a corpse with a mouth full of sand at a crime scene seemingly without tracks or clues, he is ready to suspect a supernatural killer.
Blood on the rocks … a body on the high mesa … Leaphorn must stalk the Wolf-Witch along a chilling trail between mysticism and murder.
Hillerman weaves in considerable Navajo lore in this very real story of murder and mayhem.
I thought the dust jacket blurb was misleading; Leaphorn never actually suspects supernatural elements.
I love these murder mysteries set in the Navajo Nation and featuring Joe Leaphorn and Jim Chee of the Navajo Tribal Police.
Well, eventually they feature Leaphorn and Chee, but Chee was added a little way into the series and is not yet a player in this book.
As this is the first in a series of 18 books written by Hillerman, it seems as if he was feeling his way through establishing the foundation for more stories.
The fact that Leaphorn did not have the starring role did not in any way affect my enjoyment of this book.I used to read Hillerman's books with my Mom in the '70's.
I am glad that I went into this knowing that it wouldn't blow me away. It was pretty good, and I will continue with the series since it is supposed to get much better.
A murder victim is found in a remote place with his mouth filled with sand. Lt. Leaphorn comes to suspect that supernatural forces may be involved.
Tony Hillerman’s first Leaphorn mystery (1970) strikes me as one of his best in its balance of mystery, crime solving, and rich cultural background—an authorial creation of hoozho, that guiding principle of Dinee life, which the Blessing Way ceremony (hoozhoji) restores and maintains.
(The Dinee were treating PTSD generations before westerners came to recognize its existence.) Detective Leaphorn’s crime solving is woven into details of the 3-day ceremony, including (surprisingly) a few that would have occurred within the hogan.
Many of the reviews here have already pointed out that this first book in the long-running series about Navajo Tribal Policeman Joe Leaphorn has its problems.
That, too, is true, and is THE BLESSING WAY's saving grace.It should be noted that Leaphorn is not the main character in this, his first appearance.
The central protagonist is a professor of Navajo studies named McKee-- maybe Hillerman was uncertain, way back in 1970, if a series featuring an American Indian hero could sustain itself?
The protagonist is a Navajo tribal police detective and the story is immersed in Navajo culture and the look and feel of the Four Corners region of the southwestern United States.As a near-native New Mexican (lived here since I was four) I recognized my homeland and the personalities of a lot of people who live here more strongly here than in any other author's work.
On top of that authenticity, the result of extensive research and a flawless eye and ear for cultures and people, the character development is great and the plot is superb.I read once in "Rotten Rejections" that an editor to whom Hillerman submitted this manuscript told him he had a decent basic story but he should get rid of "all that Indian stuff." I'm glad he didn't.
I almost quit reading this after the first bit, because it was a lot of Indian folklore and superstition, which isn't really something I enjoy much of.
There was one Indian called Horseman, another was The Wolf, and then there were the Wind People, etc.
The Wind People were just thrown in for color.There were two main characters - one was Lt. Joe Leaphorn, from Navajo Law and Order, as they call the police there, and the other was Professor Bergen McKee, a white professor specializing in Indian folklore and primitive superstition in Alburquerque.
I've read all of Tony Hillerman's books so this is the only review of them that I am going to write because once you read one, you will want to read them all.
I like Western movies, both the cowboys and the Indians.
Hillerman writes that, when they first meet, they don't really talk business until everyone has had a chance to repeat their genealogy.
Apparently they keep going through the oral history of their people until they each come upon some place or person whose name they recognize.
Sounds like the excitement I feel when I find a 7th cousin 3 times removed still living on the reservation in Alabama.
This, the first book in the long running Joe Leaphorn series, was an Edgar nominee for best first mystery back in 1971 and was a good listen on audio. I did think it started out a bit slow though but about half way through it picked up the pace. The narration was done by the always excellent George Guidall.
I really liked the style of writing and the setting in this book. I think I'll continue to dwell on this series for a while.
Once again I lament the fact that I started a series in the middle. I really enjoyed the first book of this series I just wish I had read it first. I will read #2 next it is on my to read shelf. Having lived in the four corners area I really enjoy Tony's descriptions of the land and the people. This is a well written detective mystery that sets the stage for a wonderful series
Loved this book and the whole Navajo Mysteries series. The description of the reservation and the development of the characters is wonderful. I have read all of the series written by Tony Hillerman and I have also enjoyed the two books that his daughter - Ann - has added to the series. I feel that the heritage and culture of the Navajo are well served by these stories.
Narrated by George Guidall, I nearly gave this book back to Audible.
So I stuck with it.Two things against this book before I even got started so take this with that grain of salt.
'Where'd I leave my keys or glasses?'Since my friend gave me the CD of the next in the series I wanted to read the first book before diving in.
I had ordered this from the library but Amazon told me I already had the book, so I canceled the loan.I know this is a popular series and the plus is how well this author presents the Navajo people.
Somewhere between Michael Connelly and Craig Johnson. Love it. I'm going to enjoy Hillerman a great deal.
Lt. Joe Leaphorn makes his way to an Enemy Blessing to ask questions.
McKee, behaving more like McGyver, somehow thwarts the antagonists long enough for Lt. Leaphorn to reason his way through the problem and meet him at the end.I did have a few issues with this first book, but I also needed to remind myself that crime technology and medical accuracy in mystery books – while sometimes still wildly off base – has improved in the subsequent years since 1970.
My final issue was the whole Navaho Witch-craft culture presented in the book.

Published by Borders/Recorded books in 1990.Narrated by George Guidall.Duration: Approximately 6 hours, 30 minutes. The Blessing Way  is the first of the Leaphorn books but, ironically, Leaphorn is a mere supporting character throughout most of the second half of the book. College professor/archaeologist Bergen McKee is the main character - the one who has the most growth and teaches the reader the most about Navajo society and culture.Nevertheless,  The Blessing Way  is an enjoyable book. I hav
is the first of the Leaphorn books but, ironically, Leaphorn is a mere supporting character throughout most of the second half of the book.
College professor/archaeologist Bergen McKee is the main character - the one who has the most growth and teaches the reader the most about Navajo society and culture.Nevertheless, 
is an enjoyable book.
The Shapeshifter
), which, ironically enough, also prominently featured the Navajo Wolf/Witch/Shapeshifter.
His descriptions of Navajo society in the two books would make an interesting comparison - a study in the ongoing process of diffusion of Belagana (white) culture throughout the reservation...Read more: http://dwdsreviews.blogspot.com/2012/...
