https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24813.The_Calvin_and_Hobbes_Tenth_Anniversary_Book
Reading a Calvin and Hobbes book can make ones day.Comic strips are not only for fun but they have to tell the whole world in a nutshell about everything they want to.The wonderful and creative cartoonist does it coolly as always.The tenth anniversary book is a collection of all the great comic strips in Calvin and Hobbes with some introduction to every one of them.It was cool to know how and when the author got the idea and what triggered him to produce such fantastic work.
A few years ago I thought having a cartoon book sitting by my bed at night would be the best way of going to sleep. For a long time now it’s been this Calvin and Hobbes collection, but today I binged on it, finishing it with a cup of tea after breakfast....rest here: https://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpre...
Il mondo è più divertente visto attraverso gli occhi di Calvin - ancora di più attraverso quelli di Hobbes.Peccato che in questa raccolta si metta in mezzo Bill Watterson, l'autore, che spiega, storicizza, racconta, svela i retroscena, parla e straparla, togliendo molto del gusto.Così, ho fatto finta che fosse una raccolta normale senza le inutili didascalie dell'autore e sono arrivato felicemente in fondo - proprio come avrebbe fatto Calvin :-)Hobbes invece se lo sarebbe fatto leggere saltando le parti noiose di Watterson:-))
Sami stripovi su reprize onih koje smo vec videli u prvih par kolekcija ali komentari od Vatersona je ono sto ovde dize zabavnost posto licno volim da citam kako je neko dosao na ideju za neke stvari. Po meni obavezno stivo za svakoga ko voli Calvin and Hobbes.Narocito onaj deo kada objasnjava da je dobio negativnu postu na strip gde Kalvin fantazira da unisti skolu. Odgovor ko nije kao dete mastao o tome :)
And i will come into my reasoning below along with some spoilers so be fair warned.Warning: Spoilers And Discussion Of Essential Plots Elements Follow So to me these sets of comics to me are based on this kid and his life on some type of hallucinogen, He gets high and and talks to his pet tiger and goes on some crazy "trips" or drug fueled story's.
Another good one is Calvin is looking at himself in the mirror along side of Hobbes, apparently Hobbes cuts his hair but to a more adult reader Calvin must have took some sort of drug and pulled his hair out.The rising action in this story is the wonder of what drug Calvin will take next and what type of trip he will go on.
Poder entender un poco todo este mundo alocado de las tiras cómicas, los cambios, problemas y demas.
Las tiras me gustaron, la mayoría me resultaron meh, pero las que iban destinadas a dejar un mensaje me llegaron y eso es lo que cuenta.
En mi família casi me sacan el libro de las manos y eso que nadie lee, imagínense.Si tienen la posibilidad de conseguirlo o leerlo háganlo, de seguro van a encontrar algo que les guste.Próximamente reseña completa en el blog, voy a compartir algunas de las tiras para que puedan ver un poco.
Since Calvin and Hobbes has never gotten any adaptation whatsoever, it’s hard to imagine color images when looking at the strips in black and white, so the book makes it nice to see Watterson’s idea of how everything looks colored.
Apart from that, probably the main aspect I like of the story having a kid for the main character is the use of imagination.Childhood is the point in life where people can think in all kinds of whimsical, fantastical ways, a creativity which I think too many people lose when they become adults.
En esta edición aniversario contamos con una selección de las mejores tiras cómicas comentadas por el autor.
Me gustaron tanto las historias como los pequeños comentarios que tenía el autor al respecto.
y esos renglones complementaban muy bien lo que estábamos leyendo.También cuenta con un "prólogo" donde habla sobre la historia de las tiras cómicas en general y nos mete un poco en este mundo desde el punto de vista de un dibujante.
lo que termina siendo gracioso ya que es un peluche xDDisfruté mucho leyendo esta antología de tiras, me reí y me entretuve viendo las locuras de estos personajes.
La verdad nunca había leído nada de Calvin y Hobbes. En este libro tenemos algunas de sus tiras cómicas acompañadas de comentarios del autor. Hace referencia a qué lo inspiro a hacer cada tira, algunas de las que se arrrpiente y las dificultades que representaron algunas de ellas.
The best one!
What can I say than: "It was amazing." :)
Elevates its medium.
Diez años, es una prueba de ello.Esta edición fue publicada originalmente en 1995, cuando la tira de Calvin y Hobbes cumplía diez años de haber sido publicada, pero también marcaba el año en que dejaría de aparecer en los periódicos.A diferencia de otras ediciones especiales, esta cuenta con comentarios del autor.
Desde el inicio Watterson abre con su opinión acerca del mercado de las tiras cómicas, pasando por su percepción de la industria hasta compartir su experiencia acerca de las razones por las que nunca aceptó la venta de derechos para mercancía de Calvin y Hobbes.Pero lo mejor, son obviamente las tiras cómicas de esta edición que fueron seleccionadas por el mismísimo Watterson.
This is classic Calvin and Hobbes and a great memorial to the short life of the best comic strip ever written.
I was heartbroken when I heard that Bill Watterson had decided to stop writing the Calvin and Hobbes strip.
Long before I became a mother, I would read the strip, laugh, and say "God's going to give me a son just like Calvin.".
I can definitely relate to Calvin's mother's exasperation when her too-smart-for-his-own-good son did something crazy.
My own son grew to like Calvin and Hobbes also.
Long live Calvin and Hobbes!
I'm a big Calvin & Hobbes fan so it's no surprise that I found this collection wonderful. It's also sprinkled with commentary from Bill Watterson throughout, which gives a lot of context and background I didn't otherwise know. For other Watterson fans, his work recently made a secretive appearance in June 2014in the comics pages via Pearls Before Swine (http://stephanpastis.wordpress.com/2014/06/07/ever-wished-that-calvin-and-hobbes-creator-bill-watterson-would-return-to-the-comics-page-well-he-just-did/).
I have never read this volume of Calvin and Hobbes like I read it this time. Before, I was too young and impatient to appreciate Bill Watterson's commentary - I usually skipped over most of it to read the comics.This book has given me incredible insight into the life of a cartoonist, writer, artist, and working man. Anyone with a career in mind for the aforementioned goals should read Watterson's story. It is incredibly inspiring!
Because I don't typically read newspapers (trying to save the world by not killing trees), I never followed comics very closely. I was introduced to Bill Watterson's Calvin and Hobbes almost completely after the fact. My Mom and Dad kept several collections on their coffee table. So when I visited them, I'd invariably pick one up and be amazed.
Probably the greatest things I've ever read. And that includes the greatest of the classics. The first time I encountered the last strip in this album (the one that takes up the whole last page), I'm pretty sure I cried from nostalgia.
Fantastic. What sets this apart from the 950 other Calvin and Hobbes collections is that this one is heavily interspersed with Watterson's own observations about the strip, his creative process, and the elements of his own life that have informed his work. Highly recommended.
An insightful look into the heart, mind, and imagination of artist Bill Watterson. Every minute I spend with Calvin and Hobbes is a minute I become a more observant and awestruck human being. Please read this. Read it alone, with friends, and with your children.
I completely forgot all these Calvin and Hobbes books were on my shelves! I should know better, all of these great comics deserve to be rated too, lol.
it's always a pleasure to spend time with Calvin and Hobbes ! what made this book even more special was the author's commentary !!
It was interesting to read about the thoughts and motivation behind the comics, from the creator. Some of my favorite ones are in this collection.
Lembras-te Nênê de passarmos uma noite inteira a rir?
I LOVE Calvin and Hobbes. That is that.
En las primeras páginas Watterson se despacha con una especie de “tratado” en el que opina sobre todo lo referente al mundo de las tiras cómicas: temáticas, plazos, relación con los editores y la competencia con otras tiras.Nos deja clara su muy personal y respetable visión antisistema del mundo.
Luego nos comenta cuales fueron sus influencias (alguna de ellas muy evidente), explica su proceso creativo y presenta a sus personajes.Sus notas sobre las tiras me han dejado muy en claro el alto porcentaje auto referencial que contiene su trabajo.
Komik strip Calvin & Hobbes merupakan salah satu komik strip terkenal di dunia.
Di buku ini, Bill Watterson membagikan kisahnya dalam membuat komik strip ini.
Dia juga membagikan beberapa prinsipnya yang cukup keras, salah satunya tidak mau berkompromi dengan pasar untuk memberikan ijin membuat merchandise Calvin & Hobbes.Bill Watterson juga menyertakan komik strip buatannya, lengkap dengan catatan kecil mengenai tema dibuatnya komik strip tersebut.
Buku ini juga dijadikan Bill Watterson sebagai dokumentasi karya-karyanya.
Bahasanya cukup ringan dan pembaca akan dihibur oleh kumpulan komik strip Calvin & Hobbes.
Banyak yang harus dipertimbangkan sebelum akhirnya komik strip tersebut bisa terbit.
This book was a really good book, and was arguably better than the previous Calvin and Hobbes book I read. This book gives insight into the author's ideas and perspectives, plus, he talks about his inspirations for Calvin and Hobbes. He feeds off of his childhood and last experiences to illustrate his ideas and concerns in his writings. It gave me a chance to connect with the author and better understand him. I gained a new respect for comics and the world surrounding them as well as the artists themselves.

As everyone who has to produce comics on a regular basis, Watterson surely must have been in slumps now and then, and I feel like in *those* cases his comics are the same quality as other comic strips.
At their best, his strips are full of so much depth and wisdom, mixed masterfully with humor and touches of sadness, and the results are golden.
I enjoyed these strips as much when I was a kid as now, and I'm sure there will be new layers for me to discover as I get older and more experienced.
