https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9464733-beauty-queens
And don't even think of telling me that some teenage girls need a book to do their thinking for them, that they need to be force fed the messages contained within Beauty Queens because their parents, their peers, the media has damaged them, tricked them into thinking otherwise.
Beauty Queens is that know-it-all girl that you sort of want to punch in the face because she isn't as clever as she thinks she is; someone ought to bring her down a few notches.Anyway, because of Bray's lack of control every character has been reduced to a cardboard cut-out of a stereotype.
The main characters in this book are all beauty pageant competitors, but rest assured, they are strong feminist types, down to the take-charge Miss Texas, who is a hell of a lot tougher than her big breasts and blonde hair would imply.
I mean, in the whole history of the pageant, an African-American girl has only won once — Sherry Sparks.”In the forty-year history of the Miss Teen Dream Pageant, she was the only African-American winner — until it was revealed that Sherry had once shoplifted an eye shadow from an Easy Rx store and she was drummed out in shame.
This story is the one where girls, who in other circumstances are little more than each other's competition, come together in a time of crisis and find that just by sticking together and opening up to one another they come to understand more about themselves and how they are far more important than the labels they wear.This is the message I've always wanted to see and I understand why some people don't think this is the reality.
What I love most is that while Libba Bray's message about beauty being of no real importance is obvious, she also works to show the reader how that doesn't mean there's anything wrong with a girl wanting to look nice.
This story was crazy funny, it read like a TV show, but it still had that fluid aspect to it that really makes Libba Bray's writing so enjoyable.
Weaving so many distinct voices into one book really is such a difficult feat and the fact that she was able to do so really makes me appreciate her as a author.This is kind of overlapping with plot, but I loved the fact that each character had their own issue and they all worked together to help each other overcome their issues.
well, the book comes out tomorrow, so you might as well finish reading this review after all.
i will not be able to read that because the world is ending and all" and then - and then i saw it at my library right before the world was scheduled to end and the crisis was averted.and then the world didn't end after all, but i got the consolation prize of getting to read this book and it is so much better than being raptured.i thought this was going to be like a beauty queen version of a battle royale fight to the death on an island.
This book was cray but it was a bit of fun! Happy Reading! Mel 🖤
I wanted to pick this book up because it reminded me of:This review contains *spoilers*.And also because Lair of Dreams left me in a bit of a reading slump, and what better way to get out of one than by reading another book by the same author, am I right?“Our tale begins with a sudden fall from blue skies, with screams and prayers and a camera crew bravely recording every bit of the turbulence and drama.”When a plane crash strands thirteen teen beauty contestants on a mysterious island, they struggle to survive, to get along with one another, to combat the island's other diabolical occupants, and to learn their dance numbers in case they are rescued in time for the competition.We get to know each of the thirteen through the 'Fun Facts About Me' page, which I thoroughly enjoyed and decided to include some of my favorite facts:• Adina Greenberg's fun fact:"My platform is Identifying Misogyny in American Culture.
So, the basic plot: a plane carrying the fifty contestants of the Miss Teen Dream pageant crashes on an island, killing all but thirteen of the competitors.
Up until the very last page, I was waiting for Bray to reveal that the entire thing - the crash, the pirates, the comically-evil corporate villains - had all been staged from the beginning as the pilot for some awesome new reality TV show.
It feels like Bray is trying to write two different books here.
(sort of like the girls in the story – hey, maybe the whole format is an allegory!
Next day, when the kids have been breakfasted and sent on their way and the laundry loaded into the machine, our heroine will again be ghetto-fabulous with glossy pouted lips and looking like she wasn't really made of steel at all.That's women, and Libba Bray got it in this geniusly funny book where every taboo, social norm and anything that gets in the way of women being true to themselves is knocked about and eventually trampled underfoot by all.
It is a 5 star read, and a good boost to confidence for teenage girls who think that looks are enough.
A story about teen beauty pageant contestants stranded on a desert island just doesn’t do anything for me.
After reading Stephanie's review, I decided to try the audio version.
In the beginning, it was a little difficult to get to know the characters.
Some of them had unique qualities and “secrets” that made them stand out, while others were a little flat and unmemorable.
I loved the Miss Teen Dream Fun Facts Page, the wacky footnotes that explained products and status symbols, famous personalities, and TV shows, like “Bridal Death Match, the popular TV show about brides who cage fight each other in order to win the wedding of their dreams.”This story is a satire about the superficiality of consumer culture, politics, and mega-corporations that control everything we watch, read, and buy.
A satire/lampoon of so many things it was hard to keep track (but I tried): beauty pageants, gender roles, commercialism, marketing, government corruption, etc.
Bray makes a lot of really great points through a story that could easily be dismissed on the surface (especially with a bikini model on the cover and a title like Beauty Queens - don't judge a book by its cover!).If you like smart humor, satire, and books that make really great points through the strangest series of events, you have got to check this out!
This book was definitely very different than what I thought.
I thought this was done really, really well and I couldn't dislike it because it just has so many amazing themes.
There's so much representation and feminism and I definitely understand why it's an option for the juniors at my school to read as an independent novel.
I love the exaggeration of everything and the purposeful unrealisticness was hilarious, but some of the political conflict confused me (im still not sure what The Corporation is).
Nevertheless I would recommend trying this just because it is really, REALLY different, hilarious, and has a great message.
That was freaking amazing. There are so many things I want to say about this book, but at the moment I'm so overwhelmed by the whole thing that I can't even think of what to say... I loved it.Was it just me, or did the epilogue feel like the end credits to an awesome movie? I could picture the entire thing in my head, and it looked fabulous, bitches. I JUST GOT THIS IN PAPERBACK
I'm going to make a pitcher book to start this review.
It's a huge satire about beauty pageant culture, the way society looks at females, and how ridiculous Big Business is about profits and covering up product flaws because of profit.When I started it, I really thought this would be a 4-star read, but after awhile, I felt like the story could have been told in about 200-250 pages rather than almost 400.
I just felt like the book should have ended by that point.
As a message of female empowerment, it has all the depth of Day-to-Night Barbie (oh, how I remember that Barbie in her pink, tailored "go-getter" workplace dress that conveniently converted into a sparkly tulle evening number, proving to little girls that we could be serious and glamorous while we had it all).To begin with, the novel was far too long and tried to pack in too much for what it was.
Beauty queens crashing onto a deserted island is more than enough for a quirky, humorous read, but Bray packs everything she possibly can into the novel: pop culture gags, pro-LGBT messages, reclamation of female sexuality, skewerings of materialism and consumerism, secret lairs and evil mega-corporations.
I read this a few years ago and usually I don't remember much about a book after that long unless it was a particularly good read.
Many of the contestants and ALL of the adult chaperons perish in the crash.....only 13 beauty queens survive.
However, there are not just the beauty queens on the island.
We also have "The Corporation" as a character and have little footnotes, interviews and even commercial breaks!So what do you get when 13 beauty queens are stranded on a desert island without adequate supplies?
But in my opinion this book would be enjoyed by adults as well...I really enjoyed it!
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/3.5 StarsThis program is brought to you by The Corporation: Because Your Life Can Always Be Better™. You probably know The Corporation for its awesome products and barrier breaking television programs like “Girls Gone Rumspringa” but this special episode brings us back to The Corporation’s roots - The Miss Team Dream Beauty Pageant!!!!No one ever expected a plane full of Teen Dream beauty contestants would crash (don’t worry, most of t
but this special episode brings us back to The Corporation’s roots - The Miss Team Dream Beauty Pageant!!!!No one ever expected a plane full of Teen Dream beauty contestants would crash (don’t worry, most of them get killed off so you don’t have to follow the story of 50 different pageant girls), but crash it did.
Not only that, but the face behind The Corporation/the Miss Teen Dream pageant (now presidential hopeful) is there and may just be the devil in disguise .
Oh, and make sure you stay tuned in so you don’t miss out on the super sexy pirates of “Captains Bodacious”
The corporation would like to apologize for the preceding pages. Of course, it's not at all okay for girls to behave this way. Sex is not meant to be this– a consensual expression of love. No, sex is meant for selling cars. And beers. And religion. This is one of the funniest books I've read in my life. If you're looking for an afternoon laughing at how fucked up our society is, laughing at all aspects of society and of women's beauty-queen treatment, this is the perfect book for you. I'm not n
This is one of the funniest books I've read in my life.
If you're looking for an afternoon laughing at how fucked up our society is, laughing at all aspects of society and of women's beauty-queen treatment, this is the perfect book for you.
I'd recommend reading the first 60 or so pages to find out whether the humor is your type.
It's the odd, offbeat, sarcastic kind of humor.
Beauty Queens is not a story about stereotypically bitchy mean girls - in fact, it's full of messages about finding yourself.
VERDICT: If the offbeat tone works for you, this is completely worth the read.
"Pirate rock stars? Please, that's like the heroin of television." Beauty Queens : Proving that it is possible to have too much of a good thing.2.5 stars. I would actually watch a show with pirate rock stars.So this is satire. Before you read this book, it is important to know that it is not meant to be taken seriously. If you find yourself hating certain characters, they were probably written that way for a reason. I generally like satire, parodies, or anything using some form of ironic wit to
Beauty Queens : Proving that it is possible to have too much of a good thing.2.5 stars.
I would actually watch a show with pirate rock stars.So this is satire.
I generally like satire, parodies, or anything using some form of ironic wit to make a greater point - in small doses.
I think it's very hard to carry an entire book of over-exaggerated humor without people getting tired of it after a certain point.
If things had been different, I could easily see giving this book 4 stars.
It's just a personal preference.You've never read satire?
Kayso, like, after three books in a row that kinda sorta made me angry, I wanted to, like, read something totally funny and ridiculous.
And yes it is funny and ridiculous, but it also has Lady Bird Hope, which is Sarah Palin (if you have any doubt, listen to the audio version).
Of course the biggest lesson of all, you do not mess with Texas, especially Miss Texas.Wow.....I thouroghly enjoyed this book...I listened to the audio version, read by the author.
Her Sarah Palin is really good, Her Kim Jong-il sounded like Steve Martin's character "Wild and Crazy Guy" from SNL...which made me laugh, even though not quite correct.I liked it.
surprise!!! i read books!!! and yes all my books come from elise's 5 star shelves now because there's nobody else i trustmaymay if you're a good friend you will see this review and if you see this review you will read this bookpragya out
Reading Beauty Queens evoked a lot of questions on what it means to be a woman in this pageant of life. The most important of which is - am I a Sparkle Pony or a Lost Girl?I'm definitely a Sparkle Pony.3.5 stars, quite an enjoyable, fast-paced read, equally laced with black humor and life affirmations, from start to finish. “Just because you're funny doesn't mean you get to be cruel.” And Beauty Queens truly is funny, but the humor is never disparaging, even when it confronts heavy subjects such
It was very easy to imagine Libba Bray having lots of fun writing this, while (perhaps) chugging a bottle of Vodka, for her to come up with Man Flower and General Good Times.It started out very strong and continued on until the sexy pirates arrived, with their washboard abs, lush hair, tight breeches and British accent.Imagine 3 of him...and 2 of him wash ashore on your deserted island...ugh the horrorIn Adina's own words:"All you had to do was introduce the scent of testosterone and perfectly capable, together girls were reduced to giggling, lash-batting, hair-playing idiots."Trust me, that is something I never thought I'd ever say, but there it is, the hot pirates kind of burned the 1.5 stars away from me.Overall though I recommend this read for General Good Times.PS.
The tough thing about this book is that I feel like it was making some pretty purposeful feminist statements, so I think it opened itself up to more criticism because of that.
To be fair, on a few occasions, Bray does very consciously make the point that it’s okay to like being pretty, but the assumption is still there, underlying the whole book.The other premise that shows up in the book is that girls need an island to overcome what we're socially trained to be.
3) Que seas feminista no quiere decir que odies a los hombres (sino que crees en la igualdad de géneros).4)NO necesitas a un chico para sentirte completa.
6)Podes ser lo que vos quieras, seguir la profesión que quieras y si no te casas o tenes hijos NO QUIERE DECIR QUE SEAS UNA PERDEDORA.7)La objetivación sexual de la mujer y del hombre está mal.8)Acéptate a vos misma, querete, respétate (y que no se te ocurra discriminar a otras mujeres).
How the HELL has this not been made into a movie. I implore you to listen*** to this.
But people kept talking about it, so I thought ‘Why not?’ and I’m glad I gave it a try.This book follows thirteen teenage girls - pageant beauty queens - after their plane crashed on a deserted island.
and it doesn’t shy away from telling things the way they are.It’s one of the most diverse books I’ve had the pleasure to read : Adina is Jewish, Sosie is deaf and bisexual, Jennifer is a lesbian, Nicole is African-American, Shanti is Indian-American, and Petra is transgender.In this book, each girl has to deal with what society taught them : how a girl should look like, the way an African-American girl should act, how an Indian-American girl should talk .
A lot funnier than I expected. Also, such a girl power book!
Heck, I didn't know Bray had a background in marketing, and with the commercial incorporation in this book, I thought the way she delivered them were brilliant.
The humor was very self aware, and Bray doesn't hesitate to turn certain troupes on their heads and come across with them in ways you'd least expect.
=PIn the end, this was a fun novel that I enjoyed immensely for my first read from Bray, and I would not hesitate to re-read it again.
I wish I had enough money to buy every girl attending my high school a copy of Beauty Queens.
Actually, I wish I had enough money to buy every girl from the age of 15 to 21 a copy of this book.
I bow down to Libba Bray for pulling off such a crazy concept - a plane of beauty pageant contestants crash on an island - when it could have gone horribly wrong in the hands of a less competent author.On the outside, Beauty Queens is about an ensemble of shallow, teenaged girls surviving on an island.
I had my doubts after reading and disliking Going Bovine by Bray, but Beauty Queens has placed her on my list of authors to watch out for.
There is a clear message within the pages of this book.
Girls are portrayed as chaste, innocent dolls who have no interest in sex until that special soul mate type love interest shows up to awaken them like some sort of fairy tale.
I think that some will be able to look past all of the sledgehammer messaging of this book and just enjoy the good, clean fun of it.
I just wasn’t able to.Perfect Musical PairingMadonna – What it Feels Like For a GirlI think that this book shows the unrealistic standards that girls are supposed to aspire to very well.
