https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7108001-abraham-lincoln
FINALLY, A VAMPIRE BOOK THAT'S NOT ABOUT SEXUALLY FRUSTRATED NECROPHILIAC TEENAGERS! I'M NOW ONE HAPPY MOTHERFUCKER.
Allow me to a little-known history book, starring  Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter.  (Am I the only one who gets chills??)Abraham Lincoln was a little more than a child when his mother passed due to a mysterious illness. Unbeknownst to the rest of the world, her death was due to a  vengeful vampire. Abraham does what any sensible child would've done - pledged himself wholly and completely to eradicating the entire world of vampires. As expected, plenty of heads rolled and bodies dismembered - th
Allow me to a little-known history book, starring 
Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter.
(Am I the only one who gets chills??)Abraham Lincoln was a little more than a child when his mother passed due to a mysterious illness.
Abraham does what any sensible child would've done - pledged himself wholly and completely to eradicating the entire world of vampires.
Grahame-Smith intersperses real-world events with his fictionalized account of Lincoln.
So, despite the axes flying, I was learning about history and Lincoln's life.
I'm convinced he's a very clever history teacher.Well done and I look forward to reading more of his novels!Audiobook commentsWell-read with great diction and enunciation.
After all, cheese can be fun.However, ALVH was more your store-brand Velvetta than your aged sharp cheddar.I kept reading for a couple of reasons.1) It was SO much better than Pride & Prejudice & Zombies2) The concept was intriguing3) Much like a plate of cheesy nachos, one often keeps going back for more when they really should stopI stopped reading because -1) The writing was plastic in parts and didn't fit the absurdity of the concept2) The illustrations were heinous3) The historical language was less than historical4) The author acknowledged Wikipedia as being an important part of his research5) I felt so many authors could have done it betterIt's campy, and it's fun - in the way that things are fun if you're stuck in an airport, on a bus, or on the subway with no other source of entertainment.In the end, though, I realized I just hope for more in my cheese.
I came across this book at Barnes & Noble while I was at Union Station in DC and had to call a friend who has encyclopedic knowledge of books of this genre.I was pulled in immediately by the cover and decided that I was going to buy it on my way home.How could you not want to read a book about someone like Lincoln, who seemingly faced tragedy upon tragedy in his personal life only to be doubly tested in his political life.The book is built on the premise that Lincoln kept a series of secret journals over his lifetime chronicling his life-long battle against the dark forces of vampires, including their role in the Civil War and the perpetuation of slavery.While the premise is, of course, ludicrous, I found I just couldn't put the book down.
Sprinkled throughout the book are clever illustrations and "actual" photos.
"Without death," he answered, "life is meaningless. It is a story that can never be told. A song that can never be sung. For how would one finish it?"  Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter is an impeccable example of how history can be made interesting with strategy. Even though I'm vastly interested in history, reading huge textbooks or listening to commentaries still makes me sleepy. I've read about how Lincoln died many times now, from different sources, but I never understood why it happened. I
Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter is an impeccable example of how history can be made interesting with strategy.
I've read about how Lincoln died many times now, from different sources, but I never understood why it happened.
The way that the author alternated from his narration and Lincoln's journal was very interesting.
Some other authors would mistakenly write about things that are not present in the time that they're trying to portray.
It showed Lincoln's life, as a vampire hunter.
I really liked Henry here, so reading about the what he decides to do after (view spoiler)[ Abraham's death  (hide spoiler)] is clearly exciting.
Maybe it would have been a little more appropriate on President's Day, but the 4th is a good secondary option.The genre of alternate history/retelling the classics with monsters at the center of the story has become quite popular over the past decade.
Fun, action packed, and it might even make you think a bit about "what if Lincoln really did battle these creatures of the night?"If you are a history purist or have difficulty approaching retellings/alternate history with an open mind, this is not the book for you.Note: the other monster based retelling I have read is Pride, Prejudice, and Zombies, and it is pretty good, too!
The Abenator! Very entertaining, very original, and lots of fun. As hilariously irreverent as Pride and Prejudice and Zombies, yet like that mash-up Grahame-Smith has woven his adaptions seamlessly into the original and his interjected dialogue sounds correct. Especially noteworthy was the infusion of historical personages into his narrative, some vampires and some not.Clearly well researched, this is a great read for Abe fans and vampire aficionados alike.
This mish-mash of historical texts and vampire hunting action chugged along dutifully to the end, much like a dry textbook on U.S. History.
I think my biggest gripe is that we are told again and again how great a man Lincoln is, how he could win over a crowd with his electrifying oratory, and yet we aren't shown it.
Which is a shame, because Abraham Lincoln had a very interesting life in its own right, even without vampires.
I actually liked the intro, where the premise is that author is given some old notebooks which turn out to be Abraham Lincoln's secret vampire hunter journals.
Part 1 shows where Abraham started and how it - him being a vampire hunter-all started.
I loved the fact that when reading the book I could actually go in and out of history and fantasy.
So this book isn't really for teens who only reads YA.
You would actually like this book if :a.) you won't get offended by the fact that the author bended the history and mashed up fiction with it.b.) you're looking for gruesome graphic violenceThe book was pretty informative as well.
But you still need a little bit of background knowledge about Abraham Lincoln before reading this.
If it's your tendency to roll your eyes at literary mashups such as Jane Slayer and Android Karenina, then I bet they rolled back into your head when what seems to be an affront to the greatest president in American history was published: Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter.
Mine certainly did, and I'm a fan of Lincoln and vampires.
If you want to know why "CRO" was carved into a tree at the Roanoke settlement, how the Confederacy really won the First Battle of Bull Run, or simply why Lincoln favored that long, black coat, read the book and get educated in American history.
It was beautiful.As for the story itself, I suppose I didn't realize how easy it was to introduce vampires into every moment of a person's life.Example: Last night I had trouble sleeping.
You can vampire-ize anything!Food goes bad in the refrigerator?
Vampires.
Vampires.
Vampires.Though it was fun at first, it became ridiculous.But don't let me deter you- if you like horror, you may love this.
I enjoyed it but, I confess, I've had enough vampires to last me for the foreseeable future.
Personally, anything titled "Vampire Hunter" should really be more entertaining than this.I don't know if by reading Abraham Lincoln Vampire Hunter I would really be able to have an opinion of the rest of the monster mash-ups as Vampire Hunter is based on Lincoln's life and not another book like Pride and Prejudice.
It's in the rules, I'll have to show it to you some day.When Should You Read/Listen to Abraham Lincoln Vampire Hunter?I can probably mostly compare Vampire Hunter to The Historian by Elizabeth Kostova.
As I said, I was expecting a tongue in cheek approach to the subject.
In my opinion the book ends up not only taking an axe to vampires, but also to Abraham Lincoln's reputation.
We at times, get a portrait in this book of an Abraham Lincoln who apparently buys into a "the ends justify the means" attitude and that repels me.
President Lincoln is not a fictional character to be "reimagined".
If that is present here, Mr. Grahame-Smith sees an Abraham Lincoln that I don't recognize.
I usually don't read biographies or vampire lit.
Some weeks prior in a pitifully sparse lit section of Borders I realized the tremendous volume of vampire-themed novels.
My complaint is that although Grahame-Smith easily works Lincoln's personal life into the tragic and grutesque lore of vampires (and/or vice-versa), identifying vampires as the pundits behind the Civil War, or rather, slavery, is perhaps not a part of history to be revising.
Horror novels and films may provide us with a completely reversed comfort, suggesting that man cannot be responsible, cannot accomplish almost unimaginable inhuman atrocities.
Slavery exemplifying the evil of which humans, not mythical beings, are capable.
Seth Grahame-Smith's Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter had a prominent display place in my local library, which is how I picked it up but still haven't read Pride and Prejudice and Zombies.
I hated the ending, seeing it as out of character for Lincoln as he's presented in this book as well as cheesy, and the framing device that opens the book felt superfluous and incomplete and didn't really work for me.
In the acknowledgments the author himself admits that Lincoln lived a life that "hardly needed vampires to make it incredible," and I left the book firmly agreeing with that sentiment.
He should have left well enough alone.I can't recommend Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter.
Alt-history by the creator of that trend of adding monsters to fiction, starting with Pride and Prejudice and Zombies, which quite frankly, I rifled through once, saw the bits that had been added, winced at how they'd been added, and put it gently back down and backed away.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
3.0 stars.
This book was a better read (or rather listen) then I was expecting when I first started the book.
I think if you go into the story without any preconceptions, you will have a pretty good time with it.
I also thought that the last line of the book was worth half a star all by itself.
A final note, I listened to the audio version of this book read by Scott Holst and I thought he did a good job with the book.
I loved this book and I love the way Grahame-Smith combines historical fact with vampire fiction utterly seamlessly creating a highly 'plausible' and very believable version of Abraham Lincoln's life and death.
A brilliant read that is a vast relief from the recent trend of soppy, adolescent VAmpire romance that has dominated the genre of late.
This is a return to the power and blood hungry vampires of old, and it is a return of epic proportions.
I think the fact that I read it in the space of five hours is testiment to how much I enjoyed it and how thoroughly engrossing it is.
When I first saw the title a while back, I had first thought it would be some ridiculously campy, cheesy vampire book.
And since I've decided to watch the movie, I of course, had to first read the book.
This book was certainly a lot more bloody and violent than I anticipated, even after watching the movie previews.
I'm glad I decided to read this and I'm really looking forward to the movie and hope that it lives up to the book.
I enjoy reading about his life and times, the Civil War and the biographies or diaries of people who lived through it.
It could have been any main character and the story of how vampires influenced the Civil War could have been an interesting premise.
The life of the vampire hunter during the Civil War could have been a good story all on its own.
But, by adding Abraham Lincoln as the main character...well, it killed the story for me.
He took an existing story (the amazing life of Abe Lincoln) and wrote vampires into it, throwing a mesh of vampire details over an already existing biography.
Apart from being an excellent and quite painless way of learning a good deal about American history (‘how many British people know that Lincoln’s assassination was only part of a wider plot which was to have included the death of the Secretary of State, the Vice President and General Grant?’ I read recently in a newspaper article, and thanks to Seth Grahame-Smith I was able to reply smugly “Well, I do.” Abraham Lincoln makes an excellent vampire hunter.
The author also makes the serious point that vampirism can only really thrive in a slave-state where it is acceptable to treat human beings as live-stock.
Having seen the title, how can I not read this?
It's too wonderfully weird and silly not to read.
And what makes it work for me even more is...having seen a very serious catalog of American antiques (they specialise in Civil War-era items) that listed as from St.-Louis 1856 a boxed (patented!
Dr. Someone's!) anti-vampire kit (two pistols, bullet mould, silver bullets, ivory cross that converts to a stake, vial of holy water, small mirror) for approx.
$2500...I have to read this book.
It seems that well, St. Louis at least had a vampire problem in the 1850s, so why not Illinois?
Well this is definitely a fresh perspective Glad I've read it, but not excited about it9/11/17 giving this another listen I think I missed somethingDear audio narrator,  Could you maybe use different voices for first and third person?
ThanksI should have left things alone.
The second time around was so much worse than expected.
This book is both ludicrous as well as disrespectful and unpatriotic.
I was often offended as I listened.
I just could not listen with a light heart when such an honored president and such topics such as the Civil War and slavery are discussed.NOTE: when general McClellan is accused of being a vampire instead of a giant, incompetent waste if military oxygen-WALK AWAY*
Unlike a lot of people who ran to the history books to confirm and deduce the viability of a story like this, I just took it for a fun look at a paranormal history.
I don't think I was intrigued enough to continue with the series but I did enjoy learning more about the time period and Lincoln-even if it was in a fantastical way.
The vampires in this book are the kind I like to see...flawed and vicious.
I enjoyed Abe's relationship with Henry and looking into the way politics worked at the time.
He was haunted by the death of his mother his whole life and when he began to lose his children to vaguely understood illnesses both he and his wife, Mary Todd Lincoln, were struck by a depression that would seem more fitting in an early 90s rock star living in Seattle battling a heroin problem.
I'm still hesitant to buy into the overall idea of these historic monster novels, but as a stand alone lark one could do a lot worse than Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter and I know I will likely see the film when it's released a little later this summer.
I really enjoy it, I love to re-read it, and it’s one of my favorite books.I still remember that day way back in 2010, when I walked into Barnes & Noble and the shelves were lined with a new book called Abraham Lincoln Vampire Hunter.
THE MOVIE: It is disappointing that the Abraham Lincoln Vampire Hunter movie was so different then the book.
I have other Lincoln books to compare it to, like The Lincolns and Lincoln at Gettysburg: The Words That Remade America(which I look forward to reading).Even though Seth Grahame Smith says he wants to stop doing mash ups, he is coming out with a “follow-up” to Abraham Lincoln Vampire Hunter, believe it or not.
The cover, featuring the visage of Honest Abe with a blood stains on his famous suit and a bloody axe in one hand is enough to make you take pause, open the cover and wonder what kind of absurdest joys lie within the books pages.Seth Grahame-Smith, who found ways to skewer the works of Jane Austen by inserting zombies, has an interesting new way to skewer the biography--by inserting vampires.
As a satire of biographies, the novel works fairly well, inserting reflections by Lincoln's journals with prose created in the biographical style of Grahame-Smith.
Seth Grahame-Smith does an excellent job combining history with fantastical fiction, and it all comes together with gruesome detail in this book. I half expected this to be a comedy (not having read anything else by him), but I was definitely surprised by some of the turns this story took. Not for the squeamish!
Its more believable than a ninety year old vampire hanging out in high school. I cant wait for the movie, yes there is a movie in the works.
This book contained so many moments that could have been truly great, truly funny, amplifying a period in American history we are all familiar with from history classes and adding to it a little mystery and horror, but it failed almost every time.Firstly, there is the issue of using a real-life, public figure like Abraham Lincoln.
It's one thing to pick fictional characters, or invent a character from history to go on a vampire-killing rampage, but if you pick a well-known person like Lincoln, you have to stay true to his character, and this book does not.
