https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2331287.Mitsou_ou_Comment_l_esprit_vient_aux_filles
J'ai retrouvé ce petit livre dans ma bibliothèque et ai réalisé que je ne l'avais encore jamais lu ! Comme toujours j'ai été frappée par l'intelligence, la finesse, la drôlerie de l'auteure, sa manière sans pareille d'analyser la nature humaine en profondeur mais aussi tout en délicatesse...
eminent novella. marvelous writing. take this as an example: http://tumblr.com/x4n1g38q30 (copied from mitsou to kaffe in katmandu). this is very very modern and the novel doesn't ever let up. i figure colette is unfairly forgotten or rather shelved as a writer of girl stories.
A classic. Great for anyone who believes in romance, feminism, and letter writing. It gets better each time.
Set during first world war, a Lieutenant meets briefly by chance a music hall girl, they write to each other while he is in the trenches, then meet again, and then write some more. We examine the tension between the relationship developed by post, and that by direct contact, and how honest we are with ourselves and each other.
Nos obstinamos en contar siempre las cosas buenas, las que causan ternura y belleza, sobre todo cuando hablamos de amor.
Esta vez todo es distinto, por fin sale a la luz una historia de amor en la que las cosas no acaban bien, en la que uno ama y otro no, en la que las ilusiones que los personajes se habían hecho caen justo cuando llega el momento de conocerse.
Una historia muy real que muestra la fragilidad de los sentimientos y la facilidad con la que todo puede romperse."No sé con exactitud qué va a pasarnos.
I got this book out of the library because Colette was on my list of authors to read from the website for the Novel Bookstore.
I liked the way Colette presented the characters as always changing, that people have little moods, change ideas rapidly, and act different around different people, put on airs.
I especially loved the series of love letters.
From the letters: "Look at me, in such a hurry to turn myself inside-out-like for you, as if I was a basket of fruit to show that what's underneath is as good as the top."
Wunderbar leicht und zart ist die Geschichte des 24-jährigen Revue-Girls Mitsou, das sich in einen unbekannten Leutnant verliebt. Abtauchen in eine andere Zeit (Paris zur Zeit des ersten Weltkriegs)... So herrlich naiv, ein bißchen glamourös, einfach schön zu lesen...macht Lust auf mehr von Colette.
Yes, it is a nice novella but I have preferred other Colette books.
I wonder if you would be willing to put both the powder and the scent in this glassware? It's not very expensive but - if I may break the truth to you gently - there's a war on.-Colette, Mitsou
Its unique...
