https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76661.Being_a_Green_Mother
Quest. World faces doom. (view spoiler)[ World ends. Earth quakes, tides tsunami, winds hurricane, everyone dies. (hide spoiler)]Prophecy says Orb will marry Satan. (view spoiler)[ She does. Life goes on. (hide spoiler)]First time through series, heroes (men and women) seemed to stretch pre-ordained parameters of roles, grow into best they could be. Death and War were seen in new, surprising, positive lights. On re-read some decades later, maybe dated, maybe worst forgotten, but cannot continue
(view spoiler)[ World ends.
(hide spoiler)]Prophecy says Orb will marry Satan.
(view spoiler)[ She does.
(hide spoiler)]First time through series, heroes (men and women) seemed to stretch pre-ordained parameters of roles, grow into best they could be.
(view spoiler)[ Satan knows marriage ceremony will destroy him, so sacrifice proves his love.
Drug addicts and Jezebel, succubus cursed to copulate every hour of every night (exhausting), all feel relief inside.
(view spoiler)[She continues Llano search, though "her reasons for pursuing this song seemed trivial; she might as well have gone naked into the jungle to pursue a tiger" p 161.
(hide spoiler)]
The ending is too abrupt, too crazy to be the ending of this whole story!That being said, I felt like this whole book was sort of crammed together.
Not to say it wasn't interesting before--all kinds of question get answered, like what does a succubus do in her free time?
I never felt close to Orb, the main character; I was always more interested in the people around her, which is kind of bad for a main character.
I very much wish to find the next book to see what happens with this.And, as always, his author's notes are well worth reading.
Her father can make magical music and her mother was once an aspect of Fate.
Orb herself has an incredible amount of music magic.
Orb has some big decisions to make and having lost one man she loved will she lose another?I know I’ve said that I love this series, but if I had to pick a favorite inside it I’d say this one was it.
Starting when Orb is four and following her into adulthood I love reading about all she has experienced.
So, I’m really looking forward to reading For Love of Evil.
We're introduced to the mortal Orb, she learns the magic of Nature--though without realizing it--and then Satan shows up and we get the plot part of the story.The idea of a song that is essentially one with nature is an interesting one, and I liked the early parts of the book that showed Orb searching for the Llano.
It got tiresome after a while, and lost a lot of what made it interesting in the first place.The other thing the story revolves around is a prophecy we heard earlier in the series that Orb might marry Satan, the Incarnation of Evil.
She's still mostly a one-dimensional character, as all the women in his books are, but she's not as bad as most of the females in his books.The first half of the book is nice because you really get to know Orb, however, the storyline drags, and isn't terribly magical/fantasy/incarnation-y.
My first introduction to Piers Anthony--I'm wondering what the fuss is about? I liked it well enough to finish is and to read another in the series. But I don't like his portrayal of female characters as overly emotional, none too bright and easily leaving their children behind with people they don't know very well. You'd think a man with daughters would have a higher opinion of the feminine gender.
Initially, this fifth book was meant to be the last of the Incarnations of Immortality series. Piers Anthony lets his imagination flow a bit more freely in Being a Green Mother. Most of the loose ends are tied up fairly well and the Kaftan family tree is filled out. The book is much less formulaic than the previous four. The story is not so much about adjusting to the immortal office of Nature as much as the process of assuming it.
I couldn't get through this one....if you're a fan go for it. I read the incarnation of Death book first, and really felt they faded with each book after. So it goes sometimes. For Anthony fans I assume you will like this, but as I said, I just couldn't get into it at all.
Re-read 2018Review to come
I really love this series, but this book I just didn't like. Not because of the writing or anything, but because I just felt the main character never got a break.
I'd really been looking forward to reading this book as part of this series.
It's fun reading and finding the connections, especially in this series.
There were also alot of things I didn't like about the book.
It's told at the beginning of the book and then it comes into play at the end.
It also reads like a surreal version of "Moulin Rouge." There's alot of singing, and alot of "let's sing together and then we'll fall in love" parts that made me wonder if a group of cats or a guy in a technicolor coat were slated for a double feature.
One thing that I haven't mentioned so far in any of my Piers Anthony reviews: I LOVE the author's notes at the end of the stories!
It's like a quick pick-me-up after the story has ended.
I'm not quite ready to leave the world behind me, and Anthony gives me another look at the story, and a peek into his own life--always fascinating and moving.
I can see how people can get so attached to him as an author, I feel like he gives his readers unique access to his personal life and it may be difficult to know the difference between reality and fiction.
Now this one was good a twist in the fact that most of it contains her learning things and a great amount of all the prior books listed into it while still being its own story, if you had not read the other books in some sense it could ruin parts of the earlier books but on the other hand who would read out of order?
The characters, with the exclusion of the main character, Orb , are generally snapshots, but have detail to make them interesing.
The subplots are actually more interesting than the main theme towards the end.
With out giving anything away, the book flounders about at the end until the author (ironically) uses a deus ex machina to reach a semi-conclusion.
As the series moves into the last two books (now three with the addition of Under a Velvet Cloak seventeen years later in 2007) there are a lot of loose ends to be tied up.
This book was great!
Great for 12-year-old me.
Reading again much further down the road and, ugh, so not what I remember.
Ah, for the rose-colored glasses of youth when Orb was magical, and her story a romantic, fantastical voyage.
Add to that a constant barrage of convenient plot points, like how there are over 5 billion people in the world (back in '87 when this was published), and all the Incarnations are related by blood or relationships.
Not to mention that the interweaving of the Incarnations' stories at best detracts and at worse muddies and simplifies Orb's individual story.
Don't bother unless you're looking for a grade-school level read.
As with all of the others, following the phenomenal first book about Death was just a really difficult thing to accomplish.
Gaia's character has been hyped throughout the series, so naturally (pun fully intended), coming into this book was very exciting.
The big disappointment was when it became apparent that Gaia's powers and office would not be as elaborated as the others had been, and that the reader wouldn't get to become as intimate with Gaia as she doesn't assume her office until later in the book.
This entire series is coming together beautifully, and I can't wait to get into the next book.
This was lots of fun! This is one of my favorites in the series although On A Pale Horse is my favorite. Niobe is emphasized as an ordinary woman, but who accomplishes extraordinary things through sheer persistence and determination. He one talent that lifted her out of the ordinary was her skill at weaving. This becomes an asset when she becomes Clotho, the youngest of the trinity that make up Fate. However, this is just the beginning of her momentous career through the incarnations! More cannot be said without giving exciting scenes away.
This so far is my favorite of this series its seems that Piers Anthony has grown since he bgan the series. I think i remember reading somewhere that he has a daughter. And perhaps with her maturation, some of his ridiculous gender ideology has begun to change because starting with the last book i noticed a distinct lack of uber exist portrayals of women and even some very challenging themes with mal and female characters alike.
Orb has a baby with Mym and gives her Sning! Orb has music powers, and when she's told she's fated to become the next Incarnation of Nature, she attempts to learn a special ubermagical song that controls nature... but ends up falling in love with Satan in disguise! However, it is true love, and Satan destroys himself by singing a duet of a religious Hymn! Orb, now Nature, is sad, but the day is won!
I think this book was the best one of the series, that I have read so far. Despite me putting in a rather long pause after just about a third of it, I was immediately pulled back in when I picked the book up again.I read this book on Kindle, as I did all the previous books in this series. Unfortunately the next two parts are still not available on Kindle, which is a bit annoying and also a decision by the publisher that I cannot comprehend.
This is the quickest read of the series so far. In it we follow Orb, the daughter of Niobe (from With a Twisted Skein) as she travels the world in search of the Llano, a song which encompasses and can affect all of nature. As she follows the music she meets and aids gypsies, an Indian prince, drug addicted musicians, and the Incarnations of Immortality. Being a musician, it's nice to see music be at the core of a fantasy novel and its power be acknowledged.
I have always enjoyed Piers Anthony's books but I had never read this series. As a whole I quite enjoyed this series of books. I found the characters and story to be clever and interesting. It sort of reminded me of a more adult version of a Rick Riordan series of books.
Once again, I loved Gaea / Gaia. Once again, I loved Orb. From the original 5, only Chronos is still messing with my head, others are just in my heart. I'm looking forward to 6&7 which I have never read...yet.
Sad to see it endA fabulous book, with a great surprise twist ending. Lots of good twists throughout the book, concerning the Incarnations and they're human histories and families
Just as lovely as ever.
One of the better books in the series. Had a very satisfying ending.
Meh. The entire series went downhill after book 1. It simply hasn't aged well.
My favorite of all the Incarnation books, still doesn't disappoint after so many years!
I really enjoyed the audio. I loved the travels and freinds Orb made though the story!
Ah! Satan!
