https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1123515.Lonely_on_the_Mountain
Good book! But I thought the ending was rushed and hastily put together. The entire book was about the Sacketts and their friends driving a herd of cattle to British Columbia and then the last four pages covered their arrival and the defeat of the bad guys. It was a little confusing and like I said: rushed. I would have liked more details about in the ending.
This is not one of the best Sackett novels. It starts well but the ending is disjointed. To me it appears the author decided to cut the story short with many loose ends not tied together.
The Sacketts series by Louis L'Amour are some of my favorite Western novels. Unfortunately, "Lonely on the Mountain" did not live up to the earlier books.The plot was good, but the action became very repetitive, and the ending felt very rushed.
The book was a little difficult to follow at times because it switched point of view without warning although it made the book much better, and it gave you a better idea of what was going on.Plot SummaryThe book first started out while Tell and Tyrel where driving the cattle to the north.
I would recommend reading this book because it is very good.CharacterizationThe character Tell changed a lot while he was alone.
Orrin also changed because at the start of the book he was fighting a lot, but when he met Nettie he acted a lot better.
Read everything Louis wrote as my father did and his father before him. Cut my teeth on my first L'Amour western at the age of 6 (truth). The Sackett's are just great stories. Had to look at the copyright date of this and compare it to Lonesome Dove as many plot points and situations are similar. L'Amour wins.. 5 years BEFORE Lonesome Dove.
I started this book 30 years ago and couldn't finish. Now that I am old and mellow, I tried again. No one knowledgeable of western Canadian history or geography should read this book. Now, if you can't find Winnipeg on a map, think Louis Riel is pronounced Lewis Reel and that Barkerville is a cool name of a dog kennel, go ahead and read it. Likely wont kill you.
I love all of the Sacketts, but the brothers Tell, Tyrel, and Orrin might be my favorites (other than Flagan and Galloway, of course). If there's anything to dislike about this book, though, it's the weird shifting back and forth between first and third person narrative. L'Amour does this from time to time, and I never like it.
This was the first Sackett's book I've read. I had seen the TV mini series so going in I was familiar with the Sackett Family. It was a quick read, not an action packed read, but a good story that quickly gets wrapped up in the last few pages.
A Sackett book. Most of the Sackett series is pretty darn good, and this one is too, even though it's not among my favorites in the series.
All of L'Amour's books are great reads, but some more than others. This was one of the "some." well written plot, believable characters, set in historical Canada and the Dakota's. Great read.
Another good Western by Louis L'Amour.
I grew up during the height of the Western movie and TV era, so this is a nostalgic experience for me to read these.
Those receiving it know it has to be serious and of great import for him to make such an outrageous request.
It's a straightforward tale with good men, bad men, strong women, Indians and lots of adventure in the great outdoors.
It's honest storytelling that gives readers like me satisfaction with old-fashioned, feel-good elements.
Additionally, he provides an occasional, surprising historical fact to educate us in a way that brings more pleasure to the read.
It is a sad day that I have finished the last of the Sackett series.
The boys are headed in the the far reaches of British Columbia and they are faced with the perils of the wilderness and a bunch of outlaws that want to stop them.This is a quick read for me because there always seemed to be something that I had to find out how it worked out all through the story.
I enjoyed this story a great deal and as I said I am sad that will be no other books about the Sacketts.
The last of the Sackett series - I'm finished.
This book features the 3 Sackett brothers, Tell, Orrin & Tyrel, who I like reading about, and also features some of the geography from where I grew up - all of which I enjoyed.
Feels quite rushed, and that's too bad for the very last Sackett story.Also, the geographical descriptions were a bit confusing; I couldn't quite tell where they were half the time, and in the "last days of July" they are worried about snow coming.
Anyhow, not a bad book but not the strongest in this 17 book series.
This final novel (chronologically) in the Sackett series kept me turning pages until the end.
It reunites Tell, Tye, and Orrin Sackett who are coming to the rescue of Logan Sackett.
The cattle drive part was interesting as was the intrigue that threatened the success of the drive.
My only regret is that there are no more books in the series to read.
I thought there was more story to tell.
If you like Westerns, then you will like this book.
If you are a fan of the Sackett series, then this is a must read.
I quite enjoyed this one, with the brothers Tell, Orrin and Tyrell together again.
Tell is central here, as he is the first-person narrator, but it switches to third-person chapters if Tell isn't present.
I felt this was neither good nor bad, but at least one reviewer was bugged by it.
In terms of plot, you never get much deviation from the L'Amour formula (and that's fine by me) but this was the first Sackett book centered around a cattle drive, which was fun.
Until the end this was one of my favorite of the series, but, as others have noted, the ending seemed rushed and left loose ends.
Classic L'Amour. Have always loved his imagery and the way he weaves his stories. The Sackett stories have always been my favorites from his offerings, as well. I seldom read western novels anymore, but I loved them as a kid and young adult; and if that is the genre you are seeking, Zane Gray and several others have done good work - but Louis L'Amour has always been the at the top of that heap in my opinion.
Have always love Louis L'Amour novels and this one is in the top 15 or so of his books. Read another author named Kurt James whose books are Louis L'Amour like if you are looking for someone who writes on par with his stories. Writers like L'Amour, Kurt James, Max Brand, Zane Grey have always been my favorite type of stories.
I like all of L'Amour's books but I thought this one was rather thin. The plot was okay ... they received a letter from Logan that he needed Tell to drive some cattle to where he is. The drive was hard and they had some problems with bandits and indians, but as westerns go, this one was pretty tame.
Another great Sackett tale. The Sackett brothers, and a few of the cousins work together to deliver herds of cattle to British Columbia. They stand together and several antagonists learn that each Sackett, alone is near unbeatable. When they are together, they are a mountain that is not able to be summitted.
Simple, formulaic, one dimensional characters and story line. And I enjoyed every page. But only giving it three stars for all that. It was not L'Amour's best writing nor do I feel I need to ever read this again.But it really makes me want to get into the mountains!
A disappointing end to the Sackett saga.
A charming L'Amour tale about the Sackett brothers having a cattle drive to save the life of their cousin Logan Sackett. Readers in the know . . .There are Higgins!
A particularly gripping tale of cow wrangling in Canada. No, seriously. A minimum of repetitive romanticism and a maximum of pleasing Western tropes.
Good but somewhat long and drawn out.
4.5 stars. Another Sackett book that was really hard to put down. I think I’ve read all of them now and this was one of the best.
Back to my favorite Sackett, Tell, and his brothers. Very fun.
Several of the Sackett gang appears in this story - William Tell, and both his brothers, Orrin and Tyrell, ride out to rescue cousin Logan locked up in a British Columbian jail.
The POV changes between characters a few times, but we readers mostly ride with William Tell.
The POV changes should've helped break the monotony except all the characters are doing the same thing - riding a lonely trail through the grasslands spreading out at the foot of the Rocky Mountains, each character looking for the others because of stuff that keeps separating them (no spoilers).
Cap Roundtree is with them, along with some new faces.Somehow, Logan got himself into trouble, and Tell and Co. need to bring in a whole herd of cattle to settle some sort of debt.
However, as they're moving northwest across the U.S.-Canadian border and into British Columbia, they are constantly hammered with all sorts of trouble actively working to prevent them from delivering the herd.Unfortunately, Louis forgets about some characters.
Gilchrist and the Ox come grinding against Orrin and Brandy.
Brandy too, just sort of disappears after that moment.
Another character, Flemming, disappears when they reach a sign scratched onto a rock about Logan.
#17 in the Sackett series chronologically (and #15 in publication order).
This 1980 volume was the final one chronologically and the 12th to take place in the 1870s.
In publication order the first 11 take place in the 1870s and the next 3 between 1600 and 1620.
After this volume, written when the author was already 72 years old, only Ride the River (1983) set in the 1840-50s and Jubal Sackett (1985) set in the 1620s were published.Sackett Titles #17 - The Sackett Brothers didn't know what brand of trouble had Cousin Logan stirred up, but he needed beef cattle badly.
I loved this book.
Logan Sackett sends an urgent letter somewhat in code to his relatives asking for beef and saying that whoever sets out to give him some needs to be watchful.
Tell, Tyrel, and Orrin Sackett don't care what type of trouble he's in - - a Sackett always helps a Sackett, no matter what.
So they pick up their friends along the way and ride straight into trouble and doubt, heading for the Canadian wilderness where Logan's letter was sent from.
I think this is one of his best written and thought out books.
