https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15435.Dragon_on_a_Pedestal
This is the very first book I ever read.
It took me several months, and a lot of help, but I finished this book, and never looked back.
As a young girl I didn't understand a lot of the puns Anthony uses, but I did know this was a story about a little girl, and a dragon, and a wonderful world where anything could happen.
And I often reach for one of these books when this mundane world becomes to overwhelming.
And while my husband's puns make me groan in pain, Anthony's always make me laugh, chuckle or smile.
I had read Dragon on a Pedestal over a very long period of time.
It's a great story and very much follows the 'traditional Xanth template'...
Even though it followed the ever redundant Xanth pattern, the characters were great as always.
I loved the characters (especially Irene and Stanley) but for me the plot didn't tickle my fancy as much as other Xanth stories.
In the end, it's three stars for Dragon on a Pedestal.I do sort of feel that the gap in starting and finishing this book heavily plays into my rating...
I'm sure that the ability to enjoy Anthony's puns is a test of some kind. After a while the stereotyped female characters start to grow a little stale, as does the jokes at the expense of the female characters.
Like Night Mare, Anthony skips over most of his sexist remarks because the main character is a very precocious three year old who believes herself to be even smarter than the average tyke.
Nor would anyone convince me to stop and sleep while my three year old wandered around...and I can't imagine a father who would hand off the search for his only child to someone else so he could go back and be king.
Though brilliant as always. This particular Xanth is not what I would consider up to par with others of the series. There is a certain repetitiveness in the plot, and a reuse of past events I didn't quite like. Still, I'm going to read the next one.
Based on my memory of reading this book in the 80s.
Very cute! Enjoyed reading it again.
The the puns and gender may be silly at times, this is my favorite book in the Xanth series.
His heart just didn't seem to be in it, as is evidenced in the author's notes following the story where, after giving credit where credit is due to his fans for some of the puns he used, he asks them to STOP mailing in puns - a policy he will reverse in later novels.It provides two, equal stories following two main characters as opposed to one - a first in the Xanth series: the story of 3 year old Ivy who, thanks to a forget whorl, has gotten lost in the jungles around Castle Zombie, and the story of her mother, Queen Irene, who is desperately searching for the missing girl.
Ce tome ci doit être celui qui m'a le plus émue, devant tant d'unicité de la part des habitants de Xanth : tous unis dans un même but quitte à mourir. Le bébé dragon de l'abîme est, quant à lui, vraiment attachant, l'histoire ne manque pas de rebonds farfelus et de détours loufoques, et comme à mon habitude, j'ai pris mon pied en lisant ce livre ! Un auteur vraiment très bon, j'aimerais voir plus de livres comme ça !
I loved this book so much that at age 14, I knew I was going to read it to my children some day.
A fun and punny read.
This one is definately more enjoyable that the first two in the series. Very imaginative with a good natured sense of humor. I would also recommend it as a young adult read.
I enjoy my trips to Xanth with all of the intriguing characters and of course the puns that abound. It's so much different than it is here in Mundania.
One of the best books in the series, with the introduction of the shrunken Gap Dragon, and the fun and entertaining daughter of Dor.

In a way the Xanth series are a bit like the Discworld series in that they are not a series of books following a continual plot.
Okay, some of the characters, such as the Good Wizard Humphrey, do appear in multiple books, and the characters are related to events that occurred in the previous books, but it does not necessarily mean that you have to read them in order.
However, due to an event in another book (which, ironically occurred before the forget spell was placed) the spell is now breaking apart sending eddies of forgetfulness throughout Xanth.
The Gap Dragon had escaped and was ravaging across the land, the forget-spell was causing mass amnesia, three-year old Ivy was headed right for a hungry dragon.
Probably...."Yes, the forget-spell has also escaped and had dissipated into 'forget whorls.' It was these that were causing the random events of amnesia all over civilized Xanth.
Little Ivy is the daughter of Xanth's ruling King Dor and his wife Irene, and a forget whorl has passed through, causing Ivy to be separated from her parents.This sets up the plot: Princess Irene is on a quest to rescue her 'helpless' daughter.
:)There were a few things I thought were somewhat gross, but I suppose it's to be expected in Xanth...Overall the author does a good job of creating character development by taking away what is familiar and taken for granted and forcing characters to find alternate ways of succeed.
This refers to Good Magician Humphrey's wisdom and experience, the Gap Dragon's power and danger, etc.I have often said that an inferior story with familiar characters is acceptable in the sense that it allows for more character development, and I always appreciate more adventures, even if they are not as interesting as some other stories.
The series occupies a strange space between silly and weird.
Anthony has some odd opinions on themes, such as sex, racism, prejudice, growing up, and the use of magic in everyday life.
The writing vacillates between heavy-handed condescending to extended analysis of magic, science, and the application of the rules of Xanth.
Some love it, some hate it; I personally thought it was a strange read but harmless, although I doubt I'll read each book twice.
One thing about Anthony, he has a very complicated history and genealogy of Xanth and its characters and you have to appreciate how he always finds ways to connect them from book to book.
Another character who's affected is the dragon of the Gap. Ivy pretty much adopts him as a pet.Magician Humfrey's son, Hugo, runs into Ivy and ends up able to protect her competently even though he is only eight years old.
Anything she sees and believes and expresses becomes true, so when she tells Hugo he's brave and strong, he becomes more like her description than he was before.My friend who loved these books "named" me Ivy because of this character--I guess I have a mundane talent of enhancement myself, after all!--and it's a nickname I still use decades later.
Since we're only six books in, there's still enough backstory given at the beginning that I pretty much understood what was going on, and the fact that the Xanth plots are pretty basic and straightforward, meant I could read it without having to look up information.This is a typical Xanth novel: protagonist, sidekicks, problem, solution, interspersed with puns and humor.I love, love, LOVE Ivy's magical talent of enhancement!
So simple, yet so powerful.
(It's how I felt when I watched Heroes and learned about Sylar's power of intuitive aptitude - but Ivy's has less murder.) I just love how Anthony can come up with such a simple idea, but show you all the amazing things that can be done with it.
I love how it continues to grow and expand.Dor and Irene are now King and Queen of Xanth, as King Trent and Queen Iris have retired to the North Village.
While discussing these issues, the Gap Dragon appears, and in the ensuing panic, Princess Ivy, King Dor & Queen Irene's daughter, goes missing into the wilds of Xanth.
Compounding the problem is the fact that Good Magician Humphrey has been changed into a baby because his son, Hugo, splashed water from the fountain of youth onto him.This is a great addition to the Xanth series.
This Xanth book does something that I don't think I have ever seen done so well in any other media.
When in reality, there are often quite brilliant and capable of noticing details which adults would miss.The protagonist this time around is only 3 years old, but she's also the most powerful magician to ever live in Xanth.
She goes missing (actually, decides to have her own adventure).
Ivy is far from in danger, she is more likely a danger to everyone else.This contrast is what makes the book in my opinion.
This book was not very good, and I won't be reading any more from the author.3 stars...
This book was ok, but I won't go out of my way to read more, But if I find another book by the author for under a dollar I'd pick it up.4 stars...
I really enjoyed this book and will definitely be on the look out to pick up more from the series/author.5 stars...
It had earned a permanent home in my collection and I'll be picking up the rest of the series and other books from the author ASAP.
I tend to like books that shift perspectives between at least two characters.
I don't think the previous 6 Xanth books used more than one perspective.
Maybe Ogre, Ogre did a little bit.
I had a little bit of trouble with what happened to Zora Zombie, but only in relation to something that happened in Castle Roogna, the third Xanth book.
It's just a minor issue of consistency regarding something the characters discover about zombies that apparently didn't hold true for a different zombie in the third book.
But I don't read Xanth for consistency, so I'm just going to overlook it.
This was another fun Xanth title.
Ivy, age 3, is the heroine of this romp.
Well, one of the heroines.
Her Mom, Irene is the other one.
Short summary: Ivy gets lost, and Irene goes to look for her.
It turns out Ivy's magic talent, sorceress level, is enhancing other people's talents, often to ridiculous degrees.
Although it is never safe to say ridiculous degrees in a Xanth novel.
Maybe I'm now getting recent enough that there will be more than one copy of a Xanth title at the library!
This was a good book.
Not fantastic, but piers anthony does have a great way with words and Xanth is most definitely a fanstastic world and Anthony had a great imagination that ties it all together.But, basically it's all about Ivy, a three-year-old whom meets a dragon and is wanting to find home.
But, see everyone in xanth has a talent....well, i guess i would recommend the very first xanth book, a spell for chameleon...before you read this.
I didn't read it and it messed me up, until i read zombie lover, it all got tied together.
But, definetely start with one of the first 3 books i would say.
Having read these books all out of order makes a lot of moments sweeter to me.
Having read Ivy already as a full grown woman, it was sweet to see her as a toddler.I absolutely loved that Ivy's magic is enhancement.
I don't remember that being as wonderful and special in her grown up form as in was in this.
Ivy making Hugo a handsome brainiac just because she believed was really sweet.I loved the bit with the Cyclops and how she helped him find his brothers, and it was brought full circle when Irene helped him out into the daylight.Stanley Steamer is such a gem.

This was the first of the Xanth books I ever read.
It's alternately fun, maudlin, silly, romantic (in an overwrought soap-opera kind of way), and full of WAY too many puns.
Look at my nickname; how could I NOT like it?) I liked it enough to read all the books in the series that came before it, and almost a dozen that came afterwards, about 18 in all (which I'm shocked to see is only a little more than HALF of the books in the series.
Good God...).I still think it's a fairly good book, written before the whole series had gotten stale.
