https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/334735.Complete_Plain_Words
Dear Everybody Who Plans To Be A Non-Fiction Writer,You should read this book.
I was made to read this book in school over 30 years ago, and it's probably the single most influential thing I've ever read.
I've been a professional non-fiction writer since 1988, and I'm sure that the reason I've succeeded is because I learned in my teens how to structure written information effectively and express myself clearly.
It means thinking about who's going to read what you write, and whether they'll understand it.
It means opting for simplicity over showing off your linguistic skills - the "plain words" of the title.Seriously, read it.
Originally written as a guide to civil servants writing reports and encouraging them to do it in plain English, Plain Words has been completely updated and remains an absolute must for anyone trying to find their way through the minefield of the English language. Although Gowers’ primary mission is to discourage the use of impenetrable jargon, he’s also immensely helpful on punctuation, grammar and usage. A classic – and a godsend for writers of every kind.
The Complete Plain Words is one of some half-dozen books on my shelves which I dip into in the vain hope of improving my prose style.
To this end, the writer should choose the right words and arrange them with clarity and simplicity.
Writing should be short, simple and human.
I believe it was Johnny Mercer, the songwriter, whose mother complained “Why can’t you write simple songs like that George Gershwin?” And so it is with prose.
Simplicity is not at all simple.
The problem with this particular book is that it is organized to be read from beginning to end.
The purpose of the book is to make the task of writing easier for those who wish to writ better than they now do.In chapter 8 "The Choice of Words" the author says "the meaning of the second is past conjecture". Why did he use the word "conjecture"? It sounds legal to me. The book seems to be oriented for those who do legal correspondence and they want to sound precise and perfect. More on the formal side.
Wonderful. Wish I had my own copy. Refreshing reminders on how to write!
Really good stuff! Would highly recommend that everyone reads this book at some point in time.
Human, quite simple, quite short. Indispensable.
A bit dry and hard going, but that's to be expected in a book like this, where you have to think about every sentence the author writes. This book provides an excellent guide to common errors English writers often make, especially government officials. It made me think about my own writing and how I could simplify and improve it. Unlike some books on written English it follows common sense and doesn't get caught up by pedantic rules, relying mostly on common usage to determine what is correct.
This took way too long to finish. It's not an easy read but glad I finished it. I wouldn't recommend it to others as there are more accessible books on the topic. It felt like going back in time but appreciated Rebecca's notes
Good overall advice in the essays, but the pile of comments on individual words are better structured in usage dictionaries like Modern English Usage.
The theme of "The Complete Plain Words" is "English is already capable of precisely communicating your message without the need of added jargon or atrocious grammar."Yes, I giggled when I read "I have no doubt that if anyone should read this book in fifty years' time he would find current objections to the use of certain words in certain senses as curious as we now find Swift's denunciation of mob" (chapter 4).
And, frankly, the examples of poor grammar, poor writing, or unneeded words are still hilarious more than fifty years after the book's publication.I read the book after reading Dijkstra's critiques of the proposals to the DOD's Ironman programming language contest ( http://www.cs.utexas.edu/~EWD/transcr...
First, nothing beats Strunk and White's Elements of Style.This book is also dated: some of the unforgivable sins mentioned against the English language have now become regular, everyday English.
As a guide to everyday English use, this book is a bit excessive; as a historic work, however, it is enlightening and witty.
The book offers a lot more insight on the use (not usage) of words, and is also a great read.It's just not as good as Elements of Style.
Gowers’ Plain Words is a fascinating book, full of good (although sometimes dated) advice, and a great pleasure to dip into - both for its sensible, and never pedantic, advice, and for the glimpses it gives of another time and another language.The book is, it seems to me, an important document of its era: the period or reconstruction and democratisation of the UK after World War II, when civil servants at all levels were building a new vision of society (a vision which is now under threat), and a new language of plain and open communication was called for.
It's probably fair to say that we now spend more time writing than ever before, in e-mails, text messages, Powerpoint presentations, Facebook updates, tweets and so on. Good grammar should therefore be seen as a calling card for young people trying to make their way in the professional world. Sir Ernest Gowers’ book, The Complete Plain Words, remains a superb guide to clear communication nearly 60 years after it was first published. The aim of writing, he said, should be to affect your readers in the way you wish them to be affected.
On my reading list as an undergraduate, it has proved to be a valuable guide over the years; in fact, it should be read by the new generation. Albeit a bit dated, one of the beauties of language is its fluidity, to change and adapt and English is a great exemplar of this, however Gower’s premise that the art is to communicate with ease still holds true and that English is sufficiently rich and versatile enough to do it with clarity. Must read for anybody who has to produce written communication for a living.
Egetabu eke nabo kerabe ekegotu, korende inkebwate obosemia obuya. Omoriki agotosemia igoro y'enchera emenwa egoonchoka kera engaki. Omoriki oyio naende agotoegereri igoro y'echinchera toranyare koigwana ase ogotarika togotumia amang'ana amange.Orocherere oromo korwa egetabu "Kera ring'ana ndigwenerete ase rire, rigana rinde rionsi indiyo riragwenere abwo, kera ring'ana indibwate oborito bwaye, riinde indiyo rirarusigwe aroro"
Found this in the second-hand section of the local Barnes & Noble (is it common for Barnes & Noble stores to sell second-hand books? I haven't seen that before. My research has not been exhaustive.). Also found a limited, letterpress edition of a play about Fort Ross performed by the Bohemian Club at the Bohemian Grove. Funny.
"The writer who wants to present his ideas clearly and with force by eschewing jargon and sticking to plain words should first read Gowers."— Jacques Barzun and Henry F. Graff, The Modern Researcher
It had a lot of good bits, but many large sections of it are hair-splitting that isn't always terribly interesting. If nothing else, I can totally get behind his message: write so people can understand you without thinking too hard.
With Fowler this are my essential sources of both pedantry on proper usage and of sense in clarity of expression.
A well-written guidebook with the deceptively simple advice for one's writing:i) Be simpleii) Be shortiii) Be human
Maybe some fine day I might get round to finally finishing this, when bloody Finnegans Wake has been laid to rest like a tormenting poltergeist.
An essential guide to writing in clear English. Written for the British Public Service, so am not sure if applicable to American english.
Great for dipping in and out of; A few surprises for me too! One of those books to keep on a shelf for occasional reference.
- - - TWO COPIES - - -'The ABC of Plain Words,' 19511st as 'The Complete Plain Words' 1954
