https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2305.The_Ghost_Stories_of_Edith_Wharton
All the stories here are worth reading, but when Wharton's seriousness of purpose and subtlety of style combine with genuine ghostly thrills, the result is a handful of first-rate ghost stories ("The Eyes, "Afterward," "Bewitched," "Kerfol, "The Pomegranate Seed") that should be on everybody's reading list.
In "Afterward," Wharton shows us that the ghosts that haunt Americans in Europe may not be the ancestral specters inhabiting ancient houses, but rather the embodiments of crimes committed by American businessmen in their "wild cat" days back in the States, crimes that cry out for expiation.
Some of the tales aren’t really ghost stories, but explore everyday moral dilemmas and human conflicts in an innovative way.
All Souls is an interesting Halloween story that makes more sense when you know it was written at the end of Wharton’s life, the last story she wrote before her death.
Wharton herself said that she did not believe in ghosts, but she feared them; and what is needed here is imagination rather than belief.
These ghost stories often follow a familiar format but Wharton does manage to subvert the genre in unusual ways.
Edith Wharton, delicate yet cruel, casts a cold eye on the misdeeds and toxic egos of men, and an occasionally more empathetic one on women and their struggles, in this collection of beautifully written stories.
And yet a clear genius in showing the depth and relatability of her characters: many times I saw myself in these disparate protagonists, be they men or women, young or old.My favorite stories:"All Souls'" was written the year of Wharton's death.
Plus an especially ghastly murder at the end, when the ghost - in a fit of temper - becomes rather less than passive.⌛I actually read the Appleton Century hardcover edition of this collection, published in 1937.
Some might feel that Wharton was out of her element here, but I found these perfectly jewel-like tales.
They are, as is to be expected, stylistically elegant -- Wharton doesn't lower her standards just because she's writing in a sometimes-maligned genre.
These are classic "literary" ghost tales, best appreciated for the subtle shadings of tone and rich evocation of atmosphere.
In order to fully appreciate these stories, readers need to let them unfold gradually and not feel impatient with what may at times seem peripheral elements.
It all comes together; the patient reader is rewarded.
I quite like Edith Wharton's writing, but not every story here penetrated with me. A couple of them did. Kerfol is very emotional, with the ghosts of the murdered dogs. I really loved The Pomegranate Seed, with its mysterious mythological title, vague creepiness and open ended.ness
My husband and I enjoy reading Edith Wharton stories to each other, and in fact have managed to get through all, or at least nearly all, of her shorter works in this manner. I love her writing and these stories are no exception but, as other GR members have mentioned, these stories are not horrifying and some are not even scary. They are simply great stories, some of them chilling and others sad.
I got off to a rough start with this one because I didn't like the first two stories. I persevered and I'm very glad I did because I enjoyed these stories tremendously. There was a remarkable range of types of stories and causes of the events. I really should read the deliciously creepy All Souls' every year on Halloween.
I loved this collection of short stories - I haven't read any of Edith Wharton's novels, but I really want to after this.
The writing is absolutely excellent - the perfect balance of intrigue, satire and subtlety, with a hint of humour.
My favourite thing about many of these stories was that they are very open-ended, open to all kinds of interpretation - the ghostly, the metaphorical, the satirical.
I took this out from the library but will probably buy it at some point as I know I will want to read these stories again.
Recommendations of what Wharton book to read next would be appreciated!
Edith Wharton has written what I term "genteel" ghost stories, with a variation in success if achieving a sense of mood and dread are the measure. There are several that I specifically enjoyed, "Afterward", "Kerfol", "The Triumph of Night", "Mr Jones". All are well written of course (it seems silly of me to judge Wharton). If I judge them as ghost stories then some don't seem as successful. "Eyes" in particular seems a let down (as discussed in the story section).Overall though I find the stories a success in the "genteel" setting.
Cover of the 1976 Popular Library mass-market. You can tell it's post-Exorcist, as it definitely imitates the style, as did a lot of horror or occult-themed paperbacks of the day.
I loved these stories.Not too scary more of was that a ghost or a real person!Beautifully written.
I am going to put this on hold indefinitely. I do want to finish it but I am struggling. Some of the stories are okay and some I don't get at all. The only one that has stuck with me is "Afterward", which I have read once before and also seen on the telly. Moving to "abandoned" so it isn't constantly looking over my shoulder on the main page.
(hide spoiler)] Having made my choice, I am already wondering why I did not pick “All Souls’”, or “Afterward”, or “The Eyes” or “Pomegranate Seed” because they all rank among the finest ghost fiction I have read, and I have read a lot of ghost stories in my life.Edith Wharton’s stories remind me of Henry James’s The Turn of the Screw but also of the haunting tales of M.R. James in that they conjure up indirect horror.
Scritti a più riprese fra il 1909 e il 1937, questi undici racconti si inseriscono nella ghost-liter
I found several of these to be rather anti-climactic, but the longer, more character-driven stories worked really well: "Afterward", about a husband and wife who buy an old country estate with a ghost they won't know about until "long, long afterward"; "The Triumph of Night", in which a doppelganger threatens an ill young man; and "The Pomegranate Seed", a chilling tale of a second marriage and a first wife who won't let go.
On the other hand, Edith Wharton is a fantastic twentieth century author. Though I find her full length books a bit meandering, she is the master of the short story. (I have similar feelings about Henry James.) All of these ghost stories are interesting, easy to read, and paint a fabulous picture of life in the early twentieth century in New England and abroad. Even if you couldn't quite stomach The Age of Innocence or The House of Mirth, any collection of her stories is worth a second look.
I always enjoy her writing, but this sort of genre-thing is not what Edith does best. Read House of Mirth instead, and Age of Innocence. Then House of Mirth again.
Terminato!
Racconti scritti divinamente,ma appunto RACCONTI,motivo per cui non ho dato 4 stelle ma solo 3.
Purtroppo non riesco a entrare bene in una storia quando questa si sviluppa in poche pagine.
Ad ogni modo è stato un piacere conoscere la Wharton, e la approfondirò presto,perché la sua penna,i suoi personaggi,le ambientazioni, sono particolarmente affascinanti!Non so se si può considerare spoiler,ma i racconti non hanno dei veri e propri finali; molto spesso (quasi sempre) viene lasciato tutto in sospeso.
Motivo per cui la bellezza dei singoli racconti sta esclusivamente nel loro farti stare sul filo del rasoio.
edith sure can write a sentence !
(One pines for the luridness of Poe.)In the better stories of this grouping, Wharton leans on the more familiar ground of the psychological rather than the supernatural.
"Pomegranate Seed," the story of a third wife whose husband is being haunted by letters beyond the grave from her deceased predecessor, is another is a long line of Wharton's explorations of marriage anxieties.
People being psychologically left behind as their gilded society fades away is a common Whartonian motif, but "Holbein" is the first I've encountered that approaches it with the element of physical aging.
There's quite a few tales about people waiting for an absent person to return and wondering if they'll never return, as repetitive as that might be, these are probably the best stories in the collection.
There's a humorous non-horror story that Wharton seems to regret writing (keep in mind the contents of this book varies in different versions, I have the 2009 Wordsworth version) but it has an ecstatic description of a church and I liked the way she compares women to houses with lots of rooms.
"Kerfol" is probably my favourite of the lot.
I read this book for the first time nearly twenty years ago. My book club is reading it now for our late October meeting. I gave this book five stars based on my first reading. I'm eager to see what I think of it nearly twenty years later. I have now completed my second reading and was delighted by this collection of ghost stories. I will grant that many of the endings are enigmatic and elliptical, but the progress of each story is so beautifully written that I will keep my five-star rating for this book.
Esta recopilación de tres relatos de fantasmas de Edith Wharton es interesante porque las historias son muy diferentes entre sí a pesar de tener elementos en común. Quizá son un poco predecibles para el lector moderno, acostumbrado a todo tipo de películas de miedo con elementos sobrenaturales, pero la autora tiene un estilo impecable y me gusta que los fantasmas aparecen como reflejo de la vida de los protagonistas, en relación con secretos y actitudes de los personajes.
These stories are somewhat clever, but not very scary. The only story that I found even remotely scary was about a French chateau that was haunted by dogs. I know it sounds stupid, but it kind of creeped me out. However, the rest of the stories were pretty predictable--they might have scared you if you were living in 1910 and reading them by candlelight, but they're not going to scare you in today's world.
Delightful!
Bewitched- 1925Three men are summoned to help Saul Ruthedge & his wife right something that seems impossible.Miss Mary Pask- 1925Visiting a relative in England for a friend who is found dead but seems alive at night only & without a single visitor.Mr. Jones- 1928Lady Jane Lynke inherits the Bells estate but Mr. Jones is invasive caretaker which seems quite not what he seems.Pomegranate Seed- 1928Charlotte's husbands receives mysterious letters which her husband refuses to explain & leads to upset.The Looking Glass- 1935Mrs. Attlee helps out a wealthy friend to help lessen her pain.All Souls- 1937Sara Clauburn stays at Whitegate after her husband's death & has an experience which seems to be the spookiest of all the stories to me.One excerpt from Wharton's preface-I found this interesting from her perspective on cinema/movies on the effect on the readers & books.
Fun, shivery collection of ghost stories, most of which hinge on relationships past and present--or the past (dead?) impinging on the present.
Wharton's a terrific writer, so even the slighter stories have an impact through scenery or storytelling.
The best have that, plus a chill that lingers.
My favorite stories are "Afterward," "The Triumph of Night," and "Pomegranate Seed." My favorite scene is the one with the woman with the broken ankle, alone in the snowbound house, making her way slowly down the slippery staircase....[Side comments on this edition: the story summaries on the back cover are all wrong.
And MUST every Wharton paperback mention/allude to her similarity/sympathy with Henry James?
I'm DNFing it, there's no way I'll be able to finish this collection of short stories and I don't want to see it on my currently-reading
Her analysis of the makings of a ghost story is sufficient reason for reading this awesome collection of tales from the pen of one of New England's premier writers.
