https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/213367.Desiring_God
"We will go far beyond mere happiness in our Christian life, but our true purpose on this earth is obedience and sanctification, not personal gratification." Contrast this statement from Charles Colson's Lies That Go Unchallenged in Popular Culture with Piper's statement that "The pursuit of pleasure is not optional.
The author suggests we should all be aiming for this higher state and that unless we reach it we are not fulfilling God's true potential for us.
What about when we don't feel satisfied ....does that mean we are not fulfilling God's potential for us?
I love this book.
The primary message is this: not only is it our chief end as humans to desire God and enjoy Him forever, but is it God's chief end to glorify himself and enjoy himself forever.
This book has been instrumental for me in understanding God's justice & mercy and how they play out perfectly together for his glory...even when it's hard to see or understand.
I strongly recommend this book as a foundational read for anyone who struggles with questions like: "why is the universe the way it is?", "what is the purpose of my life?" or "why did God allow (fill in the blank) to happen."
Desiring God: Meditations of a Christian Hedonist, in particular, stands as a turning point in many of their stories of following Jesus.I haven't been a fan of Piper.
That's how it feels: Rather than jumping into the stream, this stream that might bubble up just about anywhere, Christian hedonism feels like an industrial waterworks, with too many moving parts, gears and levers, to be the overflowing life of God.Besides the conflict caused by my basic conviction that discipleship, as well as joy and glory, are fundamentally communal realities, I also found Desiring God frustrating to read at a literary level.
I read this book. I enjoyed it. It challenged me. But, i came away feeling like i was missing something on what all the fuss was about... i felt like i failed to get it somehow...
Desiring God is a book devoted to helping readers find their happiness in God. The theme is that "God is most glorified in me when I am most satisfied in him." Dr. Piper carefully builds his case for this concept and calls it Christian hedonism.
Will one feast on the pleasures of sin or will he run to the streams that God offers and drink from his delights.Christian hedonism is really a philosophy of life that is driven by five convictions.
Every subject discussed comes back to the issue of the Lordship of Jesus and whether or not the reader is finding his complete satisfaction in Him.Piper has written a tremendous book.
Great.
I had high expectations, actually, because Piper has developed a strong reputation as sort of a C.S. Lewis in a post-modern society.
Piper cites from Jonathan Edwards a lot and seems to owe his entire ministry to him, and another of the book's marvelous achievements is to destigmatize the author of "Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God" by discussing the author's MUCH more numerous works on heaven and enjoying God. Edwards is more relevant today than ever, and I think every human being, if not every Christian, should at least give his discussion of God's will of command and will of decree a glance.
I read the ten-year anniversary edition, which was well done, especially with the new chapter about suffering and the overly cute but effective poem that illustrates Christian Hedonism with Piper's thoughts about his wife on their anniversary.Desiring God boils down to what is kind of a life motto for Piper: God is most glorified in us when we are most satisfied in Him. Piper also gets a great deal of mileage out of another key phrase: The chief end of man is to glorify God BY enjoying Him forever.
Piper certainly does not mean to encourage human-centered theology, or to make emotions and pleasure into gods, but I can definitely see how a philosophy of Christian Hedonism could be vulnerable to a general tendency to drift in that direction.
In other words, he's not wrong, but Christian Hedonists will need to be very careful to keep God's glory--as opposed to man's pleasure--at the center of their beliefs.All in all, it's a decent enough book, and encouraging for those of us with a tendency to prioritize obedience over emotion.
This is one of the most gnostic treatments of so-called Christian Hedonism that I have ever read. Throughout the book you will be hard pressed to find much of anything on enjoying God through the physical pleasures He has given us to enjoy. Nothing on enjoying good beer. Good food. Good sex in marriage. You end up at the end of the book trying to turn to your own little heart to find your pleasure in God. Read Doug Jones' article in C/A called Wine, Women, and Sabbath if you want a more biblical approach to hedonism.
Before reading this book, I had become a Christian, but I was still working through this terrible thinking I had that the Christian life was supposed to be boring because what's right is always less fun than what's wrong. This is the first place I encountered the thought that the Christian life was about joy, the greatest joy that a person could have. That's a transformational thought, and for anyone who needs to hear it, this book is for you. It is dense and long, but I would say it is worth the read.
It’s a pretty long and exhaustive explanation, but it is good. Good reminders. Good memories. Good stuff.
o m g hype
Notes: (1) Downpour(2) Sorrowful yet always rejoicing(3) Breaking the power of sin: gain a distaste for it by a greater satisfaction in God(4) The chief end of man is to glorify by BY enjoying Him forever (5) The law of the human heart is to seek happiness(6) God is the end of our search for pleasure, not the means to some other pleasure (7) Christian hedonism is a philosophy of life built on the following 5 presuppositions: (1) The longing to be happy is a universal human experience, and it is good (2) we should not try to deny or resist this (3) the deepest happiness is found in God (4) share s- with others (5) pursuit of pleasure is necessary (8) God is happy because He is sovereign (9) How do you glorify God?
With this book Piper does his best to show from Scripture that God is most glorified in us when we are most enjoying Him. You may have heard that you must do good disinterestedly, Piper says, but on the contrary Scripture tells us to obey God because it is our desire and our delight; indeed this delight is an excellent, God-glorifying motivation for us.
Reading Piper certainly makes me want to read John Owen again to get at a real Puritan sermon.
This is a faux Puritan sermon - argumentative without charity, superficial in its use of Scripture and other quotations, and restless in its attempt to be comprehensive, while missing real depth of Scriptural insight.
Piper follows a scattershot approach with Scripture and other quotations (which pepper every page in large blocks) - use many of them, rarely explain them (either in context or related to your argument), and assume they obviously support your position.
On re-reading, this book is better than I remembered.
My usual thought about Piper books is that they're ~100 pages longer than they need to be, and that he's a vastly better speaker than he is writer.
Of course, I also didn't read the Appendices, so there's that...Overall, this is an excellent book and one that the modern church needs to keep going back to.
We have enough "Christian" writers out there encouraging Christians to do what they enjoy and leaving off Piper's critical first statement "so long as what you enjoy is God." Still, this is excellent and I hope to come back to it again some day.
Outside of God's word this is hands down my favorite book and a main stay on my night stand!! Piper is ALWAYS so saturated in God's word and passionate to SEE and SAVOR the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ!! I relate so much to Piper and his deepest longing to fight for joy and delight in God forever!! Highly recommend this book to be read regularly but certainly outside of deep study of God's word!! Psalm 34:8
The place to start if you want to read Piper, almost his mission statement. Piper is a quotable writer and I love his pursuit to emphasize God's glory. "God is most glorified when we are most satisfied in Him" is a good summary statement of the work. As well, he draws attention to the purpose of life by tweaking the Shorter Catechism just a bit, writing "Man's chief end is to glorify God by enjoying Him forever."
God is supposed to be my most satisfying treasure and a delight to know. John Piper explains the principle and applies it to various aspects of Christian living: worship, loving others, Bible reading, prayer, money, marriage, missions, and suffering. The book is filled with Bible references; Piper bases his argument on Scripture.
While there are quite a few Piperisms in the book, I enjoyed it. It was the first Calvinist book I read. Made quite an impact on me.
Changed my whole perception of what it means to have a relationship with God. Mind blowing. Read it.
Judgemental author.SPAMMING by numerous 'GR' members who have NO friends, NO reviews and want me to download this crap. NO All requests reported to GR.
Of all the Piper works, this is the best for me. I'm odd, not a huge Piper fan. Read this half a Christian life ago and enjoyed it.
I think I may have been lost without my own notes trying to figure out the progression of Piper's argument.I was also expecting to find this book making me want to desire God more, but I found it was more of an argument for Christian Hedonism in various facets of our lives.I nearly changed my mind about this review after reading the last chapter on Suffering.
I can see how that chapter (and the premise of Christian Hedonism) can lead Piper to write a book called "Don't Waste Your Life".
There are few books which I can honestly say have changed my life.
I can say that this book truly changed my approach to the Christian life, helping me to see the Christian life as one in which the pursuits of happiness and glory to God are the same pursuit.
John Piper taps into the obvious, yet often neglected Biblical truth that God is to be enjoyed.
This has helped me to see that the Christian life is not one of duty, but of passion and joy.
Piper throws down the gauntlet to challenge us to embrace joy and a doctrine of hedonism.Like many I have wrestled with his choice of word and he, somewhat unhelpfully and deliberately, leaves the most vigorous defence to the final appendix. I didn’t find the defence entirely convincing nor fully flawed, in that way it’s a worthy contribution upon which to meditate.Setting aside this central controversy leaves (or Piper argues ‘leads’) to a deeper challenge to joy and seeking after God. In that, Piper’s work finds its merit.
Overall, I liked this book a lot and see why so many call it life-changing. Having spent a lot of time listening to Piper's sermons online and reading Desiring God, little of this was new to me - it was more reinforcement of what I already had learned and believe than anything else. The chapter on suffering was especially helpful.
This powerful volume made me reconsider stances on worship, joy, and the 'how and why' of my daily love of God.
Outstanding. Third reading of this. It gets better each time, though I’m still not a huge fan of the word hedonist :)
