https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20454107-coma
عندما يكف الأطباء عن العلاج و تخفيف الألمو يبدأون في القتل و التجارة بالألم روبين كوك "طبيب اديب "يحول الطب في روايته لكابوس..يحول المستشفى من مكان نحمل إليه آلامنا و جراحنا كي نتخفف منها..لمكان تنتهي فيه الحياة...و تبدأ غيبوبة أسوأ من الموتفي حبكة ذكية و سابقة لعصرها..
.عن تجارة الاعضاءنلهث وراء سوزان طالبة الطب الفطنة التي تتدرب في مستشفى بوسطن و تلاحظ كثرة حالات الغيبوبة بين شباب اصحاء.
لتصطدم هناك بمافيا السوق السوداء للاعضاء البشرية..سوزان بطلة إيجابية تجمع الذكاء و الإرادة و الضمير و خير نموذج للطبيب ..
فهل تدفع حياتها ثمنا للمعرفة؟ الغيبوبة نموذج نادر في الروايات العلمية حققت نجاحا متكاملا ..هي و الفيلم السبعيناتي الماخوذ عنها ..و هي نوعية قليلة اصلا..و ان كان د.
This is an oldie and as far as I'm concerned, it is also a goodie.
I enjoyed this.
I think that calling this a medical thriller is definitely appropriate.
This book is very very dated with transistor radios, 10 cent pay phones, and a $600 hit job, but it was worth the read.
The best part for me was the suspense build up.
I also have to say that it was all quite satisfying regarding the "bad" guys.
And I loved the attitude of the female MC.
She was feisty, so 4 stars for the overall enjoyment factor.
In the nearly 25 years that had elapsed between the publication of the books, Cook clearly hadn't learned a thing about creating believable characters or plot complications.
From the moment our heroine, a bright young medical student, ditches her hospital duties to pursue her own investigation into a couple of odd cases of unexplained coma, the book goes off the rails.
It occurs on the very first day of our heroine's first clinical assignment.* Naturally, she's gorgeous.
That's because the only thing that buys her time to dig into the mysterious coma cases while shirking her responsibilities as a student is a young doctor bedazzled by her beauty.
Third year medical student Susan Wheeler , along with 4 male medical school classmates, are assigned to Boston Memorial Hospital to begin learning first hand about surgery and patient care.
Robin Cook, while acknowledging some of the difficulties women who entered medicine at that time faced literally is not seeing the character's feelings through the eyes of a woman but through the eyes of a man presuming a woman would think the same way he does as a man.For example, Cook has all of the students feeling almost like frauds to be seen by patients as doctors when there was no much they did not know.
So it makes it difficult to circumvent their attitudes to get the feel and fuel of the story.
In the middle of the mystery the author has taken liberty to create an unimaginable romantic relationship with the (hero), and one of these misogynists (very unlikely).
But unfortunately the author ruins the ending by trying to do the unexpected.
I like the idea Robin Cook has created it's just that he lays it out there and then ends the story.
Kudos for being short, and for not having enough substance to lose any detail if you feel the need to skip every other paragraph for a few chapters.
A frightening tale Herr Docktor had cooked for us ( tell me you saw what I just did there, hehe anyway ) because not only it's possible but probable that we are capable of this.
It's all about the possibilities, isn't it?
Parallels could be drawn that trusting a doctor is almost akin to trustng God, so what happens when that trust is betrayed?
Coupled with the fact, some doctors think they are God and here they are playing God. Really spine chilling.
Here is an odd little fact, the movie directed by the celebrated novelist Michael Cricthon who in turn is a doctor, well was.
Read it years ago. One of my fave movies - have seen it many times.
Okay, who hasn't read this book or seen the movie? It was a phenomenon in its day. And it was a decent suspense, thriller novel. But the only Cook novel I ever read.
"Coma" is a medical mystery/thriller by Robin Cook.
And the main character has all the common sense of a doorknob.Susan is a third year medical student in Boston just starting her first day at Memorial hospital.
Why does a med student think she can solve a problem on her first day that the department heads haven't solved in a few years?
(I think this last question says more about the author's sex drive than the character herself.) But beyond Susan, the book was pretty good, even if it was a bit odd in the end.
Simplemente mortal. El terror en carne propia. La película es un clásico del género, casi como las de Stephen King. Pero no le tiene que envidiar al Sr. Terror, ya que éste está casi a su altura.
And BOY OH BOY am I glad I did!The following may or may not contain spoilers.Susan Wheeler is a young and beautiful (of course) medical student who discovers that seemingly healthy young patients who have minor and common surgeries find themselves suddenly into comas.
Susan is interested in this mystery but then decides to get seriously involved when a handsome patient who was flirting with her becomes the next coma victim.
Susan must decide who she trust and she learns the truth behind the corrupt hospital.Amazing, un-put-downable and easily one of my new favourite books of all time.
My father is huge fan of Mr. Cook, I'm still bit skeptical trying - what if I don't like it? ?
entretiene e intriga de principio a fin
I'm going with 3.5 stars for this 70's classic. Well conceived story that is truly a scary thought. The ending was brilliant. My only knock is the technical jargon; for example, you do not need to name the bones of the hand when you are using a pair of sizers as a weapon and you drive it through the hand.But other than that the characters were believable and well developed. Also, my days of BBQ in an apartment was spot on and did bring back some fond memories.
Plus the medical details are vivid and as a medical student myself, I thoroughly enjoyed the first 40 pages.That is when everything goes plummeting down.
And I just couldnot comprehend the fact that a 3rd year medical student on the first day of her rotation will begin a crusade to bring down the almighty Dr. Stark.
It is basically a 3 days story where so many things happen in such quick succession that I just couldnot accept it.
I mean a guy goes up the lift alone and enters the OR with 2 scrubbed police officer.
You might as well enjoy it, especially with all the medical details.
This was the worst author I have ever read. He tries to describe everything and he fails. You know, you read a book and you basically see it in your head like a movie... no this guy didn't succeed at all. He tried, but did not succeed.. poor Robin. I will never read another book by him.On the contrary, I did like the idea for the book. I am an aspiring doctor so I love ANYTHING within the medical field :)
I was in the mood for a fast-paced thriller and this isn't it. The writing is dreadful and I quit after 100 pages.
Robin Cook pretty much owned the medical thriller. Hmm, I wonder who owns the genre now? This was perhaps his best book.
In this story, a young medical student, Susan Wheeler, becomes concerned with the high numbers of patients mysteriously slipping into comas at the hospital where she works and ending up brain dead.
Secondly, it might be that fact that Robin Cook is a man writing a female character, or it could be the era it was written in (1970s), but the fact that his heroine Susan Wheeler, has doubts about her own femininity and is questioning whether she is a woman or not because of her chosen profession, was annoying, even slightly offensive.
Fortunately Susan Wheeler balances the brave/foolish thing quite well.I think I loved Coma just as much as the first time I read it.
Re-reading this today, it's hard to imagine this book could have caused such a stir when it was first published in the 70s and that it could have generated an entire sub genre--the Medical Thriller.
I bet it wouldn't even be published today: cardboard characters, a plot almost anyone can see right through and identify the villain (although I don't remember that being so easy when I read it when it was published), the ridiculous amount of medical information--the bad guy falls and it's his 7th rib that's injured.
Here Susan fights the men-only medical establishment, especially in surgery, and Cook is clearly on her side.
I personally hung with it only because I knew something would (or should) eventually happen.First is the matter of the heroine, Susan, a third-year medical student whose one strength is that she's convinced that the two coma cases she encounters on her first day of residency at the hospital are connected.
Third is the contrived story, which mostly consists of Susan insisting that she's right and everyone else is in her way, to the point that she ignores her assignments and schedules and even steals computer time.
When the actual coma conspiracy kicks in during the last quarter of the book, it really doesn't hold up to much scrutiny.
Cook couldn't write an interesting, strong, or likable character if you held a gun to his head.
The words in the book repeatedly tell us how beautiful and (more importantly) how smart the protagonist, Susan, is.
And that's not even considering the stuff about how hard it is to be a doctor as a woman (a legitimate topic, especially for the time frame in which this was written).
In this novel, Cook demonstrates a terrible grasp of character, plotting, pacing, feminism, descriptions, decent endings, phrasings, and writing in general.
I told jay and ben about a chocolate Easter hen I'd been given, in a wood and wire cage.
I had to get up in the night and take it out of the cage because I couldn't sleep and it was sort of on my mind while I was lying in bed.
then jay said that was weird because he'd been on the pier yesterday and helped a guy untie a gull from his fishing line.
then ben said oh my god, and how he'd been asked by his neighbour to come help him get a bird from his house that had fallen down his chimney.
This wasn't as good as Mortal Fear, but still enjoyable. The first 12 pages hook you, but then the book slows down until about midway. Half way through, the book picks up speed and hooks you again. After reading two Robin Cook novels in a row, his books sounded formulaic, so I don't recommend reading his novels back to back if you're easily annoyed by formulaic writing. I still love his novels and plan to read more, but now I need something else. If you're in a reading rut, a medical thriller is a great choice.
A decent suspense/thriller. Content is quite dated (late 70s - smoking everywhere, every man is sexist, characters searching for payphones) but that did not detract - in fact, it was an interesting history lesson for late 70s culture.
Fin i zanimljiv medicinski triler. Lepo drzi paznju, ako se preskoce preterani opisi, tipa pahuljice koja leti ulicama Bostona, da bi se zalepila na neki tamo prozor.
Good. Couldn't put it down.
Spennandi bók um læknanema sem áttar sig á mynstri sem leiðir hana að mikilli fléttu sem byggist á hagnaðardrifinni starfsemi á kostnað saklausra. Bókin heldur ágætum dampi en byrjar hægt. Gaman að lesa eitthvað sem er skrifað fyrir tíma almennrar tölvunotkunar og hvernig það hefur áhrif á framvindu málsins því í dag er ólíklegt að þetta tækist. En hver veit?
Coma is a medical thriller/suspense novel by Robin Cook. It's of his usual standard of writing and the main protagonist is a female medical student who meets a patient who later becomes comatose, brain dead, during a routine surgical operation. Good building of suspense and mystery although I did find the ending a little abrupt.
I wish we got to see what happened afterwards instead of everything just stopping right there.I wasn't expecting it to be so full of medical details.
Also, I wasn't at all expecting it to focus a bit on feminism and I love the way it did and our female character's opinions and actions on it.
I don't think female doctors are still as big of an "issue" as it is portrayed in this story, but considering the year the book was published, I have no problem believing it was like that.
