https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/599920.The_Spanish_Bridegroom
The book reads like a bad and humorless romance novel set in a prior era, only the history in "The Spanish Bridegroom" is almost as bad as the plot and characters in the book.The Spain of Phillip II was a vibrant and exciting place.
Even with regard to the Church, Phillip's reign saw a flowering of Catholic spirituality, with Carmelites in Spain like St. Theresa of Avila and St. John of the Cross reforming Catholic devotion, the newly founded Jesuit order experiencing explosive growth and bringing the Gospel to every continent, and the Council of Trent halting the advance of the Protestant Reformation and even turning some Protestant areas back to the Catholic faith.You will find none of this in "The Spanish Bridegroom." Jean Plaidy shares in the unfortunate tendency of English authors to stereotype the Spain of the "Siglo de Oro" into a haven for ignorance and religious fanaticism.
Another masterpiece by Jean Plaidy! Plaidy describes the three wives, Maria Manoela, "Bloody" Mary Stuart, and Elisabeth of France, of King Philip II of Spain. A great depiction of not the religious fanatic we typically view Philip as, but instead as a lover, a husband, and a disappointed father.
This book was okay.
I liked learning about Philip of Spain and his other marriages, because all I've ever heard of him was that he was married to Mary I and unleashed the Spanish Armada on England.
However, this book was really dry and mostly plot led.
While I see why Philip became the way he did, he stays the same throughout the novel.
In addition, while I love historical fiction novels to be heavily detailed, For A Queen's Love was a little too detailed and there was very little dialogue.
I'd recommend the novel to die hard Tudor era fans.
A doua soție impusă tot de carol Qiuntul pentru a atrage Anglia de partea Spaniei, a fost regina maria Tudor, fiica regelui Henric VIII și a reginei Ecaterina de Aragon.
După moartea Mariei Tudor, Filip se căsătorește cu prințesa Elisabeta de Valois care are doar 14 ani, fiica regelui Franței, Henric II de Valois și a reginei Ecaterina de Medicis.
Elisabeta de Valois fusese promisă la început de soție infantelui don Carlos iar căsătoria acesteia cu tatăl său creează o prăpastie între cei doi care se va solda în cele din urmă cu moartea lui Carlos.
This was one of the first historical novels set in this period that I ever read. I don’t remember much of it except Phillips marriage after Mary - just a couple of scenes really. Therefore I didn’t give this a much higher rating but honestly, since I remembered the book after decades I would recommend it. Especially for younger readers just starting out in historical fiction.
Jean Plaidy is as enjoyable as ever. I admire the way in which she approaches history, and the overlap in characters across her novels. I've never found her books spectacular or memorable, but they are always a good read.
I really enjoyed this book although I think it was more about Philip rather than his wives. One of my favorites!
Plaidy has taken the dramatic route in this novel, but while scholars agree he was physically deformed and mentally unstable and there is evidence that he may have plotted to kill Philip, most modern historians believe Don Carlos died from complications of his own ill treatment of his body and not at the hands of his father.I do wonder why the author chose not to go on to Philip's fourth marriage to his niece, Anna of Austria, daughter of Philip's cousin, Maximillian, and Phillip's sister, Maria, who bore him five children over ten years, including Philip III.
You have some limitations when it comes to story: you're following a pattern of events that already happened and if you decide to write about history, you're supposed to make things interesting.
All were way too undeveloped to make me get attached to them and I couldn't care less about all the love and worries that were supposed to fill this book.
Like I didn't give up this book because it still was written in a particular way, the chapters still ended with cliffhangers and even if it is not the brightest thing I've read, it was still interesting?
The book covers his first three (of four) wives.The political situation requires strategic marriages.
Philip accepts that he cannot choose a wife but he is eager to try to love those whom politics send his way.
(Her hysterical pregnancy gives twenty first century readers a clue as to her mental state.) Philip's third wife cannot provide him the love he craves.
Plaidy envisions this son, Carlos, as feeble with a mind of his own and an extreme hatred for Philip.The original 1971 publication was titled "The Spanish Bridegroom".
This is a good title for this book.
Finally in the last third of the book there can be no doubt, no love lost as Phillip turns in disgust from his mad son Carlos, marries a young Elisabeth of France and dials up the Inquisition to a fever pitch.Overall, again a fascinating novel by Plaidy about an important ruler in history, with well fleshed out supporting characters.
We are able to understand Phillip’s motivations and background without being forced to sympathize with some of his more brutal and vicious actions.I was surprised (and disappointed) that this book ended with the deaths of his son Carlos and his third wife Isabella, especially since he did marry one more time and had another child (his successor Phillip III) before he died.
He longs to express his feelings to his first young wife, Maria Manoela whom he adores, but he finds himself unable to do so.
The son she produces, Don Carlos, is a huge disappointment to Philip.
Then he dutifully marries Mary Tudor (Bloody Mary), and although she both repels him and arouses pity in him, he stoically perseveres (unsuccessfully) in trying to father a son.
The fourteen year old had been promised to Don Carlos, but becomes Philip's wife instead.
Philip finds her charming, but again has difficulty in expressing what he feels, and frightens her instead.
We begin with an unbelievably young Philip's narrative, and perhaps that is what led me on my path of incredulity--I find it hard to swallow a four-year-old's narrative.[return][return]At any rate, I found the dialogue to be stiff and absolutely, positively unrealistic.
Plaidy's prose in between the dialogue was uneven and choppy, and essentially I gave up on the novel three-fourths of the way through.
I had no clue why we jumped from him mourning for his first wife to him having a mistress--that seemed so illogical to me, I pretty much gave up on the book from that point on.
However, since it was really about Phillip, told through the format of his three wives as almost episodes, I found it really annoying that the story cut off with the death of the last wife.
The book starts with Phillip's birth, long before any wives are considered, so why can't it continue to his death?
She can get a little over-analyzing at times, giving the impression of a psychologist trying to fit a diagnosis, which is not an unusual approach to writing about historical figures.
I love English and french history from about the 13 century to the 18 century and this was the first book i read about Spanish history from the same era.
It was an internets look at Prince Phillip who lost his first wife and great love at a young age and had a son whom he couldn't stand.
I didn't love this book as much as i do others by Jean Plaidy but it was nice to read something from a different country and has inspired me to look into other monarchs before Prince Phillip and maybe even those from Italy or other countries.
Its a good book, there are some historical errors, especially about Charles V's relationship with his wife, Isabel. I didn't like the beginning when he was supposedly four years old and meant to behave in such ways, it is not realistic. One of my favorite parts was when it talks about Elizabeth de Valois, I knew very little about that relationship and about her, so it was interesting to learn more. Overall I enjoyed reading it since it is entertaining.
Spanish bridegroom tells the story of Philip II and his first 3 wives. Philip is a cold blooded murderer.He makes Henry VIII look like a really good guy.Philip murders his only son plus carries on the inquisition started by his Great Grandparents. He has everyone who is not a Catholic burnt at the stake. He burns jews, muslims and Protestants. He has the fervour of a true fanatic thinking he is doing God's work
To restore the might of Spain and to bring wayward England back into the arms of the Catholic Church, young Phillip II agrees to marry Mary Tudor. Set in the 16th century amidst the brutal Inquisition of Spain and the tortured England of Bloody Mary, this story traces the life of Phillip II and the intertwined lives of the women who came to know this brutal tyrant as a loving husband and father. I truly enjoyed this story. It's an excellent storyline and I give it an A+!
The 16th century has always been a fascinating period of history to me; but generally 16th century England. In this novel I got to see 16th century Europe from a different perspective but one that still influenced the English Court. Ms. Plaidy was able to show the differences in Spanish vs French vs English ways of life and upbringing perfectly. She is one of my favorite historical novelists and I plan to read every 200 of her works!
Great novel about the three marriages of King Philip II of Spain. His first marriage to Maria Maoela, his second to England's Mary Tudor, and finally Elisabeth of Valois were all in pursuit of a son and heir. His unstable son Don Carlos was unfit to rule. Philip ruled as a Catholic first and a King second, wanting to bring the Inquisition to all his dominions. This novel shows him mostly in the roles he is known least--as a son, husband, and father.
This has been my least favourite book of Plaidy's Tudor saga which is a real shame as I was looking forward to delving into Spain's history; to learn more of their royal family, the fanatic Catholicism, and the Inquisition. However, there wasn't much detail about any of this and many of the characters were hollow and badly brought to life.
I was surprised at how quickly it read, given Plaidy's talent for description. Some of her novels have read more like non-fiction than historical fiction, but this book managed to blend the perfect amount of period description with historical action and dialogue. I enjoyed it!
would like to read all her books
Philip II of Spain, married Mary Tudor (daughter of Henry VIII, aka "Bloody Mary")
Very strange chapter during Tudor times. I learned a lot and it was a great story as well.
An interesting look into the many wives of Philip II of Spain and his crazy family.
Too short, I want more :)
I really enjoyed this. Very interesting. Philip the second is a lot more complicated than I thought!!!
3.5 stars.Plaidy is my go to for easy read historical fiction, solid writing, good characters and pretty accurate. Another good novel!
Was a good read x i did start to feel a bit sorry for Phillip x
