https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/973352.Cool_Hand_Luke
This was a case where I actually liked the film much better than the book. Paul Newman did it the best!
Audiobook #226
Luke was probably patterned after another inmate Pearce knew at Raiford, although his own history provided fodder for Lucas Jackson's story.
The reader is able make a connection between Luke's emotional trials during war and his future lack of ability to live a conventional life.Luke's story is narrated by another inmate named Sailor.
In the prison, he is constantly punished for refusing to "get his mind right." His ability to eat massive quantities of eggs and constant tweaking of the rules earn the respect of the camp's alpha male, Dragline, and from there the rest of the inmates.
this book makes me nostalgic for my dad because one night when i was a young child, i couldn't sleep and i got up and found my dad in the livingroom watching the movie from this book, and i stayed up and watched it with him for awhile. I NEVER FORGOT THAT MOVIE from having watched it with my dad, even though i was just a young child. paul newman is excellent!
Cool Hand Luke!Man, this is one of my favourite novels and the book which one of my favourite movies ever (the 1967 Paul Newman movie of the same title) is based on.Luke (the ultimate rebel) is a real hard case and no matter how hard he's disciplined he just cannot be broken...Until he is broken...This novel is partly autobiographical as the author Donn Pearce was an ex-prisoner who spent a few years in a chain gang in America's deep South.Best line of dialogue: "Sometimes nothing is a real cool hand!"
Enjoyed the movie and book with equal levels of satisfaction. Would prefer book for re-visit. Cultural anthropology?
The list of movies that were better than the book is short: Jaws.
And to this list you can add Cool Hand Luke—but just barely.
And even if you could quote the movie adaptation from start to finish, the novel does some cool things with plotting and philosophizing that make reading the book familiar but still distinct from watching the classic film.
But he doesn't sacrifice entertainment value amid his anti-war, anti-authority preaching.
A quick read and very entertaining with just a hint too much heavy-handed moralizing.
Interesting read and, had my attention to the end.If you've watched the movie you know how this ends :-)
The story of Luke Jackson, a.k.a “Cool Hand Luke,” is said to be based on personal experiences of Donn Pearce, the book's author.
His crimes eventually lead to a short prison sentence, working on a chain gang.Luke was a war veteran who most likely was experiencing PTSD when he was arrested for “cutting the heads” off of parking meters.
Having to live in chains is certainly a hard way to survive, and working in those conditions seems cruel and inhumane.
Cool Hand Luke inspired me to think about reform in prisons and prisoner treatment.
I believe that this new edition has been brought out to coincide with a new play of the book which played last year in London starring Mark Warren as Luke.The novel begins in the time after the man that would become known as Cool Hand Luke has gone from the chain gang, so the tale is told, one prisoner to another, in flashback and with a certain sense of awe in the narrative.
I wonder if the movie is better. I understand why this was a cultural touchstone. It came out in the Vietnam era and has anti-establishment themes. But for me the story was a bit dull. I have to imagine the charisma of Paul Newman as Luke goes a long way in the film version.
Cool Hand Luke is in my Top 5 for All-Time Favorite Movies.
But it's a lot of fun (and the author's debut book, no less) and it really gets into Luke's backstory that adds some depth and dimension and I look forward to watching the movie again (probably the 70th time I'll have watched it) now that I've read the book."We relate the history of our adventures, our sentimental agonies.
And we tell the story of how we almost got away with it all."“'[J]ust try and play it cool.'That was all ah had to hear...
How can we be cool when we're hotter'n the hinges in hell?"
The movie is true to the book and that's likely because the author of the novel also wrote the screenplay for the film.The first thing that really rings out is the authenticity of the narrative.
While the character of Luke was seemingly based on a man whose legacy was passed through the grapevine from prisons at the time, Sailor is undoubtedly autobiographical.The second thing that I couldn't get a grasp on was the horror of the chain gang.
I say this because oft times movies cloud our perception of the characters we read in books.
Stuart Rosenberg’s Cool Hand Luke is perhaps my favourite film, and yet I didn’t know that it was an adaptation until relatively recently, when I was browsing the IMDb forums and came across a user praising Donn Pearce’s unfairly obscured book.
Once Pearce’s authorial idiosyncrasies are acknowledged, Cool Hand Luke presents itself as a very vivid, occasionally shocking account of life in a Florida chain gang.
Although I believe that the film adaptation of Cool Hand Luke makes some improvements on the story, I would still prompt any prospective reader to give Pearce’s novel a chance.
So while many folks have seen the movie of Cool Hand Luke, fewer have read the book, and it's a shame, because the book is even better: richer, more layered, stronger.
The book is a powerful anti-war statement.
You can compare this to One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, which followed years later, and see many of the same themes of powerful individuals who do not fit in with the world, and are destroyed for their non-compliance.
So do yourself a favor and read this book, and get a view of what real horror is like.
Cool Hand LukeI couldn't read this book without thinking of the great 1967 Paul Newman movie.
The screen play was done by Donn Pearce, the author of the book.
Strother Martin's famous line in the movie, “What we've got here is failure to communicate.” is not in the book.Pearce wrote the book in the first person, but it's first person plural: We watched..., we all knew..., We rolled our cigarettes...
The singular, I, is used only sparingly - only to let us know that the narrator is Sailor.
He lets us know what life in a prison work camp is like, life on the chain gang.
I've always liked the film and I really enjoyed this book.Apparently the author also co-wrote the screenplay but didn't like the film in the end.
That's interesting because the story in the film is surprisingly close to the book, although subtly different at the end.The writing is spare and gripping with great characters and a brutally realistic depiction of prison life.
This despite the fact that the prisoners are all portrayed as "good guys" and the guards "bad guys" to a man.
And, having also recently enjoyed the book of True Grit, I think I'll be on the lookout for other novels from this era!
I like the movie better, probably because it has the great Paul Newman but the book does have the movie theme. Cool Hand Luke (a.k.a. Lloyd Jackson the war hero) is "the cutting parking meter bandit", the "Master of the Family" (54 prisoners), in the chain-gang working their "yo-yo" weed cutters ask Prison Guard/Bosses to take it "off" to do any thing, e.g. take off sunglasses and get a "drink" of water. Luke's biggest feat is eating 50 eggs. But the book flow does not identify who is describing the events, it is not Dragline?

Read the final three paragraphs first.
You'll find yourself sucked into the raggedy Wilderness of surrender, endurance, prevailing and embrace.
As Jesus says, "The Kingdom of God is within you," but leaving us to discover how messy it is.
Intensely spiritual, this book is one of my short list of perfect books (The Power and the Glory and Heart of Darkness as two others).
Too large to be a myth and way too dirty to be a parable, Cool Hand Luke nakedly sketches how we spend dollars and souls to make monsters and then more dollars and souls to imprison them.
Good book (apparently based on Pearce's experience on a Florida chain-gang), but doesn't even hold a candle to the film version.
Loved the movie and now I love the book but still wasnt aas good as getting to watch paul newman walk his pretty self around... . :)
Somewhat darker than the film, but every bit as good. The writing sometimes got a little messy, but Pearce has a great ear for both cadence and dialogue.
Full disclosure: this is one of my favorite movies. The rare occurrence of the screenplay being superior to the novel. I enjoyed the deeper dive into Luke's past, and the dynamics of the chain gang. However, my love of the movie polluted my reading. I was hoping for some of the scenes from the movie to be in the book, and if they weren't I couldn't shake the disappointment.
Good reading. Educational from a sociological point of view.
Wow! Wow! and Wow!!! I thought the movie was good but the book is amazing. Gives you a different perspective on things. Could not put it down. Read in 1 day. Worth reading again.
I liked this and would recommend it to others.
For a while it was closer to 5 stars but the novel stalls when it turns into an obvious Christ allegory near the end.
I love this book, the characters are amazing and the story a must read. Some say jails have changed since this story, but I think may will find that many things stay the same. Their is a rivalry as well as a camaraderie among prisoners who have been thrown into a system of hardship. I highly recommend reading this book and then grabbing the movie of the same name.
It is pretty great, though.For the longest time, I had no idea this book existed because the movie starring Paul Newman has always stood on its own as such a timeless piece of cinema that I never thought to question its origins.
While the movie is a character piece, and the book does focus on Luke as the central figure, Pearce spends the majority of the novel detailing the harsh life of the chain gang.
Meanwhile, the book, by discussing the cruelty and despair of the chain gang life, touching on the depravity that men sink to during war, and merely hinting at the savior figure that Luke becomes in the eyes of the camp has a more scattered view.
