https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15926.Nights_in_Rodanthe
Of all the books I've read of Nicholas Sparks, I've realized they all have twists. Twists you wouldn't think would happen in this story line. All of his books seem like they have all the same story line but like I said its a twist. You think you know what will happen but you're wrong. Keeps you on your toes. And never want to put them down.
I've never read a Spark's novel before but enjoyed the silver screen version of The Notebook so I was expecting something a lil more I suppose.
The pages were fraught with Paul and Adrienne thinking how beautiful the other was too the point were it just seemed silly.
But I suppose, silliness is one of the many faces of love, most prominent when a third person is observing it.Personally, I prefer love stories with a moderate amount of subtleties.
Though there were moments, particularly nearing the end, where I was mildly choked up with emotion, I wouldn't not suggest this to read but I wouldn't say its a must read either.
I watched every movie adaptation of Nicholas Sparks' novels but I never cared to actually read his novels which made me feel like I was cheating on this author.
I thought it was kind of unfair that I benefit so much from his stories by merely watching the movie adaptations.
So, when I saw my chance at retribution through a book sale, I automatically laid my eyes and hands on this book and yes I braced myself for the tears and the death common in Sparks' books which I indeed encountered in this book but after reading this book, the empty corners of my heart and mind were once again satiated with rich and beautiful life lessons.
I am just a big Nicholas Sparks fan! I love the way he writes. This is just another great one of his that I loved as I was reading it and could not put it down. Can't wait for the movie!
And last, but not least, read ANY OTHER BOOK, I mean, besides another one by Sparks.I have to state, the reason I read this was because I saw the movie preview and I like Richard Gere.
The preview didn't seem that bad and the book was getting high marks.
Of course you're going to cry if your husband/wife cheats on you and leaves you for a better/younger model.
Of course you're going to cry if you have a miscarriage/lose a child/anything bad happens to do with your children.
They will put aside their own wants and needs and sometimes personal happiness so that their children's lives go on uninterrupted and relatively normal.
An older mother shares with her grieving daughter a yet untold story to help her daughter move on with her life and to be a good mother to her own children after the loss of her husband and their father.Adrienne shares the story of how as a middle-aged divorcee she meets a man (the only guest - conveniently!) while keeping a seaside inn for her good friend.
It is also typical in that you may need a tissue near the end of the book.
It bothered me that Adrienne did not go on with her life, that she made decisions for herself based on the lives of her kids (that were not young) and she paid for those decisions in later years when she was left alone.
Everyone is entitled to have a life of their own.
She would expect that of her kids (and did) and her father (certainly) expected that of her.
She was committed to her father's care; however, Paul's plans could have shifted and they could have both gone to Ecuador or waited until Mark found himself and returned...
I don't even have any wine to help me cope with this book..
Please stop torturing my heart sir!Okay, so Nights in Rodanthe definitely made me cry and fall in love with Adrienne and Paul.
I really enjoyed Adrienne and her kids - even if they are all grown up because her relationship with them is really special.Overall, I cried a lot while reading this book.
I will probably never get over the ending and will always see it has a happy one: (view spoiler)[where paul lives and him and Adrienne live happily ever after.
(hide spoiler)] Loved the book.
Hebatnya lagi begitu jelas dan detilnya Nic Sparks menceritakan bagaimana kisah cinta dua manusia di usia yang tak lagi muda, namun tetap sangat menarik.
Plus saat mengetahui endingnya, saya tak tahan untuk tidak mengeluarkan air mata.Dibilang happy ending nggak.
Yang jelas kemarin saya sangat merasakan ketulusan sebuah cinta sejati, tak lekang oleh waktu.
Mau tak mau saya teringat kisah mama dan papa saya sendiri.
Mereka bertemu di saat usia papa yang tidak muda lagi, 37 tahun.
Mengetahui bahwa orang yang dicinta sudah tenang di alam sana namun cinta dan semangat itu akan tetap ada.
Paul had died for his son, and in that moment, part of her had died as well.Apart from this world full of deceit, anguish and hatred, there exists a world full of love, sincerity and longing and I want to live there.
Sparks, hats off to you, you made me think this.I had rarely come across the books in my life that brings tears in the eyes and you still don't want to put it aside, I loved to go on with this little book full of love while I walked home after alighting from office vehicle, in the elevator and while having a breakfast and when not....
Tertinggalkan bersama anak-anak mereka yang tentunya juga kehilangan figur keluarga yang utuh.Paul terbiasa hidup untuk pekerjaannya.
Ditambah dengan kematian salah satu pasiennya, membuat Paul ingin memperbaiki hubungannya dengan keluarganya.Adrianne ditakdirkan bertemu dengan Paul untuk berbagi kasih sayang.
Untuk saling menyadarkan bahwa masih ada sesuatu yang bisa mereka raih.
Untuk saling mengetahui bahwa masih ada orang yang peduli pada hidup mereka.
Untuk saling mengingatkan bahwa mereka masih pantas mendapatkan cinta dan kasih sayang yang sebelumnya telah ditelan habis oleh kehidupan.
Juga saling membantu untuk berdamai dengan hidup lama yang selama ini masih saja mengintip dari balik punggung kehidupan mereka..Saya tidak pernah berada dalam posisi Adrianne sebelumnya.
This book is a quick read (easily read in one sitting) with a great message driven home clearly, poetically and effectively.While I understand that Nicholas Sparks gets glowing reviews about how touching and beautiful his sensitivity to romance is, what I actually found more remarkable about this book were the characters themselves.
There were two main characters: A man and a woman.
It was my experience that the man was the stronger of the two characters and the woman served as a witness to this person who quickly becomes an inspiration to the reader.
"Una historia relativamente corta que emociona por la capacidad del autor para describir sentimientos y para hacer creíble un amor que surge en pocos días y que, sin embargo, deja una huella eterna en el corazón de sus protagonistas. Hay un par de detalles que para mí son mejorables, pero no dudaría en animaros a darle una oportunidad".Reseña completa: http://entrelalecturayelcine.blogspot...
This book sucked. Sorry all you Sparks fans! Don't mean to offend, but I can't believe a retired high school English teacher recommended it to me. Maybe they thought I wanted something "light". It was very True Romance in my view and his characters were sappy and overly sentimental and sweet. Nicholas Sparks has a great following, maybe I'm just too old to like romance books anymore! After I finished it, not sure why I did, I felt guilty that I could have been cleaning my bathroom with the time I spent on the book.
What a waste of time. Read chapter one and you don't need to continue. This is so predictable and such an overworked concept. How did this guy get to be a best selling author?
Sparks je ovim, brojem stranica nevelikim romanom, savršeno ispričao jednostavne, naizgled obične, a opet jako složene životne priče glavnih junaka.
Nakon pročitanog romana još sam više uvjerena u majstorski odabrane glavne glumce filma.
Roman je donekle sličan temom i brojem stranica sa jako hvaljenim i također ekraniziranim Mostovima okruga Madison.
Sparks ovim romanom sa lakoćom izaziva toliko emocija, a pritom potpuno izbjegavši patetiku, tako čestu i iritantnu u ovom žanru.
Sve u svemu, jako lijep roman, jedan od onih rijetkih za koji sam pomislila da bi ga mogla ponovo pročitati i pronaći još neku divnu rečenicu koja mi je možda promakla.
The writing in this novel is very descriptive but the book is so short that it shouldn't have needed it, I thought a lot of it was unnecessary waffle.
I think a lot of thought goes into how Spark's characters will meet, fit together (too perfectly for it to be entirely believable), fall in love (too quickly in my opinion) and then either live happily ever after or not (his books seem to go both ways).
It feels too forced and that gives his stories an insta-love vibe most of the time.
Opening line: "Three years earlier, on a warm November morning Adrienne Willis had returned to the Inn and at first glance had thought it unchanged, as if the small inn were impervious to the sun and sand and salted mist."Even in a book that's only 222 pages long Nicholas Sparks manages to weave his magic.
The story begins with Adrienne telling her widowed daughter the tale of her brief love affair fourteen years earlier with a surgeon named Paul.
We then alternate between Paul and Adrienne's points of view as we learn the story of their lives and what brought them each to divorce before they found themselves at the inn in Rodanthe.
Istriku perempuan terbaik di dunia, dan kau bahkan tidak tahu siapa dia".Ketika Adrienne sendirian di penginapan setelah Paul pergi, mengenang kebersamaan mereka, saya menangis.Ketika Adrienne mengunjungi sang ayah yang terserang stroke dan menceritakan kisahnya dengan Paul, saya menangis.
Terharu membayangkan sang ayah yang selalu mengatakan "Aku bangga padamu", apapun yang Adrienne lakukan."Ayahnya kemudian tersenyum, senyuman yg miring, dan meskipun ayahnya tidak mengeluarkan suara apa2, ketika bibirnya bergerak, Adrienne mengerti apa yg berusaha dikatakan ayahnya".Ketika Adrienne membaca surat dari Mark, anak Paul, lagi2 saya menangis.OMG, saya memang cengeng...*salah sendiri, baca buku kyk gini di saat yang tidak tepat*
It had a touching ending when Paul's son came to see Adrienne telling her how much love Paul with her....that's a shame Paul dying to save his son from a bad accident....I thought it was a very good book and it touched my heart reading this book...
4,5Gostei do livro mas achei que os acontecimentos e tudo o que se passou entre eles dois foi muito rápido. Se tivesse pelo menos umas 100 páginas a mais, gostaria ainda mais.
You know, I read The Notebook and didn't like it, but I thought I'd give Nicholas Sparks another try.
So, I am planning on watching Nights in Rodanthe with my mom, and I wanted to read the book first.
I even read certain passages to my girlfriends so we could get a good laugh.
Plus, I think this guy tries to appeal to a Christian audience, but he has these characters having sex all week after they have only known each for about 36 hours.
Sparks also describes in great detail some of the most unnecessary things.
I don't think I will ever read another one of this guy's books again.
I don't know why I attempted another Sparks novel.
I think my friend told me to read it and I had previously trusted her knowledge of literature...until she recommended Twilight...but I digress.
One question: why are all of Nicholas Sparks' characters out of the ordinary and incredible people in one way or the other?
Seriously, the protagonist in this novel had this back story: grew up on a farm with his dad, mom had died, worked hard, became high school perfect everything, moved on to become ivy league perfect everything, gradutated to become a doctor, a plastic surgeon, no less, and his problem is....(drumroll, please).....his wife is falling out of love with him.
I can't read anymore Sparks.
Glad to finish.
I am so sorry to those who have read and loved this book but I did not because it is flat.
I really wanted to like this book but I just don't feel I was brought into any serious connection with these characters at all.
The only picture I have of them is from the movie and that in my opinion is not good.
Having read several books that have been adapted for movies I just believe the book should have more detail after all it's words but no, not with this one.
Don't get me wrong, th
I really wanted to like this book but I just don't feel I was brought into any serious connection with these characters at all.
Having read several books that have been adapted for movies I just believe the book should have more detail after all it's words but no, not with this one.
It's like it was written by some 90 year old great grandpa who said "In my day we had nice stories to listen to around the fire.." And we all sat around bored to tears as grandpa Sparks told us a tale.
Adrienne Willis’ daughter has suffered the death of her husband, leaving her with two small sons to raise alone.
Adrienne decides to share with her grieving daughter an experience that happened years before.In a flashback to fifteen years earlier, Adrienne is raising her three children alone since her husband left her for a younger woman.Dr. Paul Flanner was a highly sought-after physician who poured all his energy into his practice.
Dr. Flanner sells his practice and plans to attempt to reconcile with his son who is now practicing medicine in Ecuador.While her children are visiting their father, Adrienne is taking care of a friend’s bed and breakfast for a few days in the small coastal town of Rodanthe, North Carolina.
The salad is good, but in the end, it's not as satisfying because you know something is missing.
Well that's how I felt about this novel, it was good, but not exactly satisfying.
I get the message behind the novel, Adrienne was trying to show her daughter that she too has loved and lost, but has had to move on for the sake of her family.
I had a hard time feeling for Adrienne's loss in the end because I didn't feel like there was enough development in her relationship with Paul for me to connect.
something to help the reader feel that connection, I think then maybe the loss would have been felt more.
A simple story that tells you how love strengths you and makes you a better person than you are. The story made me feel like crying at the end but it gave me strength too .
In this book, Sparks takes us from the present, to the past and back to the present seamlessly.
The book starts in the present day 8 months after Adrienne's daughter's husband has died from cancer and she (the daughter)is struggling after his death.
After months of watching her daughter struggle with moving on, Adrienne makes the decision to tell her daughter something she has not shared with any of her children- her own personal story of love and loss.Thus begins our tale.
A little of the present, then Sparks takes us back in to the past.
* It learns you that it is never too late to find happiness even after 54 years ...
* Few days of love and happiness with the person that you are meant to be with really can be enough and there is no need to search for more ...
When tragedies happen you can cry and grieve all you want but in the end you have to get up and be strong for the ones who need you ...
Paul and Adrienne are one of the greatest characters that I read about specially Adrienne I loved her so much ...
Such an amazing woman , daughter and mom ...
That said, I felt this was more like a short-story than a novel.
It was over too quickly, and I felt that there could have been more to the romance and more to the overall storyline that would solidify the novel.
Additionally, I wanted to know more about the relationship between Jean and Adrienne, and was dying for the "girl talk" that I was thinking would normally take place in the setting Adrienne was in.I did, however, like the way the novel was a story within a story as Adrienne shared her past with her daughter, Amanda.
It was the perfect setting for the story to play out.
