https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31924325-master-of-the-five-magics
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Maxwell's Demon: "Master of the Five Magics" by Lyndon Hardy(Original Review, 1980-10-02)Just out from Del Rey is MASTER OF THE FIVE MAGICS by Lyndon Hardy (who "became interested in fantasy while wandering through the fringes of fandom as an undergraduate at Caltech"). My skepticism was challenged by the cover blurb's claim, "one of the most logical detail of the laws of magic ever to appear in fantasy"
The book itself tells the story of Alodar, who desperate wants to be a suitor to the Queen, so that he can restore the fortunes of his once noble heritage.
The later chapters increasingly ground on me (not that the early chapters didn't), while the end, the part that should have been most engaging because it was the accumulation of everything that came before, could be mostly waved off as filler and ignored.If you made me choose good or bad, I would describe this books as a good bad book.
I rail (if only to myself) when I see "extreme" reviews (1 or 5 stars) without any accompanying explanation, and I'm certainly no saint in this regard (in my defense, I've been pretty good about making some comment on books I've read since joining GR). So, where and when I can, I'll try to "justify" my more extreme ratings:In re the volume in question - it's dreck, and boring dreck. Even after nearly 30 years, I remember this book with loathing. The idea of a "science of magic" is fine but the execution was awful.
The specification of basic "Laws" for each type of magic adds enormously to the credibility of the set-up.In the first book of the series, the principles and laws of the "Five Magics" are explored through the device of sending our hero on a series of increasingly dangerous quests involving a whole array of credible minor characters and even a couple of quite good surprises, especially when the inevitable exposition scene arrives.
But then you go on to the next book, and everything changes.Secret of the Sixth Magic
Follow Aldor as he on his "quest" (which could be said to change) as he gathers knowledge of the 5 schools of magic, mastering each as he progresses.
Aldor, spurred on by his "love" for the queen, seeking to become, Archimage...will he make it?
Okay it's an old line, but it's a fun book.
I saw a review of someone who thought just the opposite of what I did here...I found the book fun and light.
I've totally disliked other books, and found people saying the same about them that I'm saying about this one.
To each their own (as I've said elsewhere).
This is the 1st book in an early 1980's epic fantasy series. Typical of the day, it is action and story driven with a protagonist easy to identify with. Characterization is sparse, but that doesn't really matter. It was the nature of mass market fantasy in 1980. It is an easy, smooth read. Its plus is an investigation of different types of Magic. I enjoyed it and a hero who never gives up.6 of 10 stars
He and I liked to talk books, and he ended up giving me that battered little paperback copy of “Master of the Five Magics.” I read it over the next few days, enjoyed it, and then pretty much forgot about it for the next 30 years or so.
The first thing I noticed was that the original book had spawned two sequels, “Secret of the Sixth Magic,” and “Riddle of the Seven Realms.” I plucked all three off of the shelf and checked out with a satisfied smile.Hardy’s novel had created a bit of a stir when it was first published back in 1980.
It didn’t have much depth of character, but that was ok as the main calling-card for this book was it’s detailed system of magic.
Alodar works hard and his insights are pivotal in saving the Queen, but the credit is given to his rival.This becomes a repeating pattern throughout the novel as Alodar moves from one magical discipline to another, each time using something he has acquired in the service of the previous one to try to secure his sought-after position as a suitor.
Meanwhile, the initial revolt grows in scope and becomes more and more menacing until the entire kingdom is in peril.The way magical disciplines are worked out in this book is probably the most complete attempt I can recall reading in any fantasy.
The dialogue is very bad, some descriptions are hard to follow, most characters are sketchy, the protagonist's thoughts are needlessly drawn out and his decisions over-explained.
And also many minor grievances such as anachronisms or syntax inversions that sound weird instead of pompous.However, this is a must read, a bold book that you need to read if you want to know what fantasy is and what it can be.
All five types of magic invented by the author are explained in detail and are consistent.
I for one, wish there were more books in this mold.
Its been a long time since I read this series, but my recollection was that the first book was excellent, and the other two were just ok. The first one in particular has some very creative ideas that I haven't seen elsewhere, and was a very well written and engaging story.Update: I just reread the book. In retrospect the book had some really elegant ideas, but there were also some pretty serious plot holes. Still, a fun read and a pleasant way to pass an afternoon.
Rounded down for disappointment!The author's preface (or whatever one calls a preface when it shows up at the end of the book) was very illuminating.
He admits spending the Vast Majority of his time on working out the details of his magic system, and comparatively little time on plot and characters, and it certainly shows.The characters have no character whatsoever--the main character especially so.
Your emotional involvement will be similar to having a not-very-good RPG video game plotline explained to you.(Note: 5 stars = rare and amazing, 4 = quite good book, 3 = a decent read, 2 = disappointing, 1 = awful, just awful.
I finished it in a day, at that, which is more a testament to how much it is fantasy junk food than any great merit it possesses.
Hardy has expended a touching amount of effort in creating a detailed system of magic and indeed some of it is quite effectively depicted.
The settings and characters are stock figures and the prose is effective, sometimes callow.
Pretty standard stuff, but Hardy's commitment to his story, his naive enthusiasm for his magic system, make it endearing if not impressive.
A bland tale more concerned with establishing (at length) the rules of not one, but five separate magic systems than with fleshing out characters or strengthening the plot.
The excellent discussion of various magical systems makes for a fun read.
Excellent fantasy story. Very interesting take on magic and it's uses and the cause and effect of things, looking forward to reading the next 2 books in the trilogy. Very recommended
I enjoyed it as a kid, but I can't recommend it in good faith.This review sums up my feelings perfectlyI do want to take the opportunity to highlight my favorite part of the book.
It's literally the end of the book, so I'll put it in a spoiler section: (view spoiler)[(emphasis added)He stopped and breathed deeply.
'I do not intend to replace it with stoking dinner fires and beating clean laundry.''Come with me,' Alodar said softly, 'and we will journey on your quests as well as mine.'Aeriel finally smiled.
She headed her horse around the way they had come.
This book plays out like a bunch of short stories as the protagonist jumps from job to job, repeatedly doing everything right but never getting his due, but just like a well done Mary Sue story, his natural intelligence and cleverness results in him triumphing over everyone when it coincidently turns out that all his hard work might be important after all.
Actually the most interesting part of the whole book is reading about how the different disciplines of magic work and what makes them unique.
The actual events of the book and the final climax are themselves a bit dull, but the use of the "underdog serves a comeuppance to those snooty people" thread works really well and makes things feel satisfying.
Written in the great pulp tradition, Master of the Five Magics is a lot like a good summer blockbuster: entertaining if you don't think about it too deeply.
Aimed squarely at a male sword-and-sorcery audience, the book is saved from being just another piece of fantasy dreg by a few characteristics, namely Hardy's approachable prose and his unique take on the "chosen one" trope.
Also of note is Hardy's system of magic, which he takes pains to define and then stick to.
Master of the Five Magics certainly won't win the Man Booker Prize, but it's a fun romp.[Note: Mr. Hardy has recently reissued his books in new expanded editions.
A book about a thaumaturge who wishes to become nothing less than the suitor of the beautiful queen and be chosen as hero of the realm.
In order to become noticed by the queen, he needs to start learning about other 'magics' to help him fulfill his quest.
He has lots of challenges down the road and find out it takes a lot more than his shortcuts to truly become a master of 5 magics (archimage).
The language definitely is a bit dated, but easy to read and cozily nostalgic.
Will also read the next book in a bit.
Man... I LOVED this book when I was in middle school. Sadly it hasn't aged well. The characters are boring and sexist. Yes, the sexism was part of the landscape at the time the book was published, but it doesn't read well today.I actually wondered if the book is actually a code or puzzle, hidden in a story that is just decent enough to get published. There are enough hints that you could probably dig right in... buuut I'm not interested enough to find out.
Classic...I found this wonderful book through a friends recommendation. I somehow missed it back in the 80’s. I’m not sure how, because it really is a sterling example of what that golden era of fantasy offered. For those currently deep in urban fantasy land, it’s worth taking a trip back in time and reading some classic material.
It means it could have done so much better that it did.There are books that, in my opinion, have great world-building but the athor didn't quite know what story to tell in this world.
But the world was so compelling and honestly the story and characters weren't that bad, that it was all in all a great read.
The protagonist simply bounces from one school of magic to the other for the heart of the Queen.
If you think I'm needlessly mean towards the Queen , you should see how her and the other female characters are treated in the book.
Some questionable cultural attitudes don't really ruin this novel for me. It's a fun puzzle-box world as the more interesting framing for a kinda whiny and unearnedly-competent chosen one narrative; it's the setting that catches my mind and makes me want to tinker with it.
Classic fantasy, but not up to the hype... I learnt to hate the main character as it decisions and actions were annoying...Interesting magic system (you see here from where Rothfuss got ideas for his Name of the Wind)
Fun read. Strong magic system, very weak plotting, characterization and dialogue. That said, I remember the book from 30+ years ago and still like the magic system. Think early Piers Anthony (Tarot series) but without the clumsy grappling of big issues.
A generic plotline with boring characters can be overcome by the sheer creativity of the magic system in this fantasy universe.
One word = magical
Archaic language, somewhat strained plot. But interesting discussions on different types of magic.
One of my top ten books to read in the fantasy adventure genre.. truly a great read..!
Sophisticated system for magic, that contributes well to continue the plot.
