https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/266873.The_Sheltered_Life
Great story [publ. 1932] portraying growing up in the Old South [Richmond, Virginia] before WW II. For a woman, why being beautiful was almost everything, and for everyone, how crucial keeping up appearances was, more important than anything else. I like Glasgow's term for this kind of pretending, or insincerity: "evasive idealism".Glasgow shows us how this works through the eyes of a 9 year old girl and her 79 year old grandfather. It explains a lot!
By the open French window of the dining-room Jenny Blair Archibald was reading Little Women for the assured reward of a penny a page.haha - if the like of us here on GoodReads were paid one penny a page we'd all be in the pink wouldn't we. A couple of weeks ago I read Barren Ground by this author and loved it to a 4*, so I have great hopes for this, which is deemed by some quarters as her best.
Steeped in irony, the novel follows a young Jenny Blair as she learns to see behind the subterfuge of the adults who are all pretending to different lives than the ones they lead.
When Jenny Blair attempts to play along, the novel comes to a dramatic conclusion and the final veil falls.
Richmond also claims Edgar Allen Poe, and like Poe, Glasgow is witness to the fractures around the edges of a society that presents one vision while containing a much different inside.This novel traces some of this kind of story.
And of course, it’s clear that Glasgow just didn’t seem particularly interested in their story, but I can now say I have read Richmond’s very own and it was, well, it was interesting conceptually, and I read the book quickly, but I think the worldview of the author has also faded along with that of its subjects.
Despite a fascinating use of internal monologue by several very different characters, the story is deathly dull and contains only hints of better "muckraking" realist novels of the time.
It is a story that plays peek-a-boo with adultery, child molestation, miscegenation, southern sympathies at the height of Jim Crow and manages to get everything wrong except the desperation of undereducated faded middle class gentility in the pre WWI south in the voices of "sheltered" women contrasted with the "unsheltered" men and women shambling in the streets early in the Great Depression.
As a view into the zeitgeist of the US white middle class of the early 30's it's very useful and surprising.
I would have given this 3 1/2 stars. I liked the story but it could have used a better editor. It tended to repeat itself in fact or sometimes just in theme. Forty or so pages could have been trimmed off without affecting the story. I would compare in style to Edith Wharton. It is interesting that some of the details in this book parallel Glasgow's own life. Specifically, the description of Eva Birdsong is the same as that made by the author of her mother.
My affection for this book grew the more that I read. Initially, prose had sounded flowery and stilted to me but gradually I became accustomed to Glasgow's style. I think that some of the main characters will remain in my memory and those memories will be poignant as the book ends in a tragic and shocking event and its repercussions for the 4 main characters are memorable.
I probably should have found this more interesting than I did, considering it's set in Richmond, but I had a very difficult time getting into this book. It had all the plot elements of a "juicy" story, but the writing failed to engage.
http://republicaliterariamalyve.blogs...
This reads like a YA novel with an existential undertone.
Glasgow takes her theme about the destructiveness of social conventions that require people to do their duty and keep up appearances, and she beats the reader over the head with it.
This is a lovely little detour from the suffocating plot of the novel.
"In each hour, when he had lived it, life had seemed important to him; but now he saw it was composed of things that were all little things in themselves, of mere fractions of time, of activities so insignificant that they had passed away with the moment in which they had quivered and vanished."
I really want to try her out and this sort of sounds like the one that might most easily strike my fancy, though  Virginia  is the one on the 500 women list, and  In This Our Life  is the Pulitzer winner. Curious. Like some kind of Wharton-Faulkner mashup sounding sort of thing.
http://ultimaspaginas.wordpress.com/2...
