https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6872.The_Comfort_of_Strangers
This was exactly the novel I didn’t want to read, but at least it’s official now – NO MORE IAN MCEWAN BOOKS FOR ME, EVER.
Here’s one:Now, in the late afternoon, although the sun was still high, the eastern sky had lost its vivid purple and, fading by degrees through nursery blue to diluted milk, effected, across the precise line of the horizon, the most delicate of transactions with the pale grey of the sea.This is, I take it, what people mean when they harp on about the Ian McEwan prose style.
” (Teacher’s note: "Can you explain that more in detail, please?" Student: "No, I have forgotten the rest!")Second reference from the text, as required in the rubric:“What tended to happen, to Colin and Mary at least, was that subjects were not explored so much as defensively reiterated, or forced into elaborate irrelevancies, and suffused with irritability.” Paraphrase:“What tended to happen, reading McEwan at least, was that subjects were not explored so much as defensively reiterated, or forced into elaborate irrelevancies, and suffused with irritability.” Conclusion:I think this student has studied Ian McEwan enough to make the decision to give it up entirely for the time being, and to explore other realms of literature from now on.

It’s creepy and stupid.
I mean protagonists are stupid and some creepy things happen to them.
Probably because they are stupid.
During their tours through the city, they're constantly losing their way what probably had to herald impending disaster, they meet a mysterious man, Robert, who offers them his services as a guide .
) invites them to his residence where they will meet his physically disabled wife, Caroline.
The comfort of strangers  is one of the earliest McEwan’s works but we already can discern here typical to his writing obsessions that would become his hallmark.
Yikes. Did I just read that? Or did I dream it? - thoughts just after finishing The Comfort Of Strangers3.5 rounded up to 4. After reading three Ian McEwan novels, each one different but all rather elegant and civilized, I thought I’d try one of his early books, written back when he had the nickname “Ian Macabre.”The Comfort Of Strangers (1981) is a chilling psychological thriller about Colin and Mary, an attractive, if rather self-absorbed, unmarried couple who are vacationing in an unnamed ci
After reading three Ian McEwan novels, each one different but all rather elegant and civilized, I thought I’d try one of his early books, written back when he had the nickname “Ian Macabre.”The Comfort Of Strangers (1981) is a chilling psychological thriller about Colin and Mary, an attractive, if rather self-absorbed, unmarried couple who are vacationing in an unnamed city that has all the old-world markers of Venice.
One night, while looking for a restaurant, they get lost in the narrow, labyrinthine alleys and run into Robert, a gruff older man who grasps them a little too tightly and leads them to a bar.
The characters are rather strange and unlikable, their relationships are strained, and the story reaffirms everything you were taught as a child about not talking to strangers.
An English couple’s holiday takes on an eerie twist when they find themselves lured in by a stranger after becoming lost.
What follows is twisted and disturbing, but had me completely mesmerized, and having read some of Ian McEwan’s other books I knew he had a tendency to take the story into some bizarre territory.
Thanks to my local used bookstore for recommending this book!
"The Comfort of Strangers" is the unfortunate combination of McEwan's two worst books (which were published decades later, obviously): "Saturday" & "On Chesil Beach." It has that PVoAA (Powerful Voice of Authentic Authority), or that I've-published-stuff-now-I-will-see-places-with-the-eyes-of-a-wealthy-man tone.
It also has that cringe-worthy vanillaness, exemplified rather well in "On Chesil Beach." There are also two lovers in this one; &, like on "Chesil Beach", you couldn't give a rat's ass about either one of 'em.McEwan's description, impeccable obviously, quickly becomes a banal thing (and before you pooh-pooh it, think also that at a scant 127 pages, the dude shoulda, minimal, CAPTIVATED us).
but it remains a murkyish symbol nonetheless) the quality of novel really does suffer."Comfort" is all about the brutal nature of strangeness-- yes, people: bad stuff happens.
HOLIDAY IN HELL.Videorecensione: https://youtu.be/KCY6XVofaMQUna vacanza all'inferno, quella che fanno Colin e Mary, innamoratissimi ma con la passione sessuale non più accesa come un tempo. Un continuo girovagare in una città marittima disorganizzata e senza indicazioni (È Venezia? Il lettore se ne accorge, ma è come se gli stessi personaggi non lo sappiano affatto), un non-luogo torrido, incredibilmente desolante e privo di coordinate come la psiche umana (o di coppia?). Un romanzo psicologico/psicopatico (bellissimo, per giunta) sullo svelamento del sottobosco ferino, violento, nascosto dentro di noi.
[4.5 stars]McEwan has a fixation on the intimacy between men and women, both physical and emotional, and he explores that in a fascinating way in The Comfort of Strangers.The story follows Colin and Mary, a couple who've been together for several years but aren't married, as they spend a holiday in an unnamed city (though it's very clearly Venice—why McEwan chooses to keep this masked intrigues me).
I won't say much else because if you're like me, you will be utterly transfixed by this story.
And as it's rather short, you won't want to put it down until you turn that last page.McEwan is a masterful storyteller.
What is it about a glass of two of Prosecco on a warm summers afternoon that makes people so trusting of random strangers when they're on holiday?
Whether you're enjoying some quiet time by the ocean, on a cruise or simply enjoying the back woods in butt-fuck nowhere with your drunken jock friends, beware YOU ARE NEVER FAR FROM A PSYCHO!Ian McEwan likes to play on these kinds of fears and lets face it, with psychos aplenty roaming the highways and byways of our fair planet he is planting these little worry seeds in pretty fertile ground.
However the way they interface with their holiday environment (in a nameless place but descriptions suggest Venice) is how many people have experienced a foreign city.
Colin e Mary sono una coppia di turisti in vacanza.
E ci trascinano nelle loro giornate senza senso, in discussioni silenziose in un tempo immobile, in un’abitudine ai loro corpi che è normalità, piacere, delicatezza e conforto.
Sono fermi e inquieti allo stesso tempo.
Forse per questo si affidano ad una coppia conosciuta per caso.
Le parole sono scelte con cura, nulla è in più o in meno, asciutte, tragiche, creano una tensione nell’immobilità che allerta i sensi del lettore fino alla fine, forse solo un po’ frettolosa, ma a rifletterci non avrebbe potuto essere diversa.
Creepy and spare, this will not be among my favorite of McEwan's remarkable oeuvre.
The Comfort of Strangers was published nearly thirty-five years ago and there is a timelessness about its tone and the shadowy, shuddery story.
McEwan carefully withheld markers of politics and pop culture, as if somehow knowing the story's potential to live past its Last-Days-of-Disco era.
It's fascinating to read this early novel, McEwan's second, to see the same elegant, structured prose, but absent of the warmth and humanity he's achieved in later works.
The Comfort of Strangers is like a highly-stylized, black-and-white neo-noir, where the actors say profound things that make little sense.
This is the earliest McEwan work I’ve read (1981).
I could see the seeds of his classic themes: obsession, sexual and otherwise; and the slow building of suspense and awareness until an inevitable short burst of violence.
Mary and Colin are a vacationing couple in Venice.
Soon neighborly solicitude turns into a creepy level of attention.
McEwan has the knack for presenting situations that are just odd enough to stand out but not odd enough to provoke an instant recoil, so along with the characters we keep thinking all will turn out benignly.
This reminded me of Death in Venice and The Talented Mr. Ripley.
Il racconto prosegue in un’atmosfera onirica, come nel mondo ovattato del sogno fatto di silenzi e di gesti lenti e sguardi muti.Un incontro con un singolare personaggio di cui sappiamo solo il nome, Robert, smuove le acque intorno a Colin e Mary, che cominciano ad annaspare nell’acqua trasformata in mare increspato dalle onde, da affrontare con estrema attenzione perché può travolgere e annegare tutto ciò che incontra.
La morte aleggia sinistra come il vento che dà forza al moto marino, in un crescendo di tensione ed ansia che McEwan dosa in modo sapiente, grazie a piccoli particolari, a gesti apparentemente insignificanti, a sguardi misteriosi, a frasi spezzate, in un gioco macabro tra Colin e Mary, da un lato, e Robert con sua moglie Caroline dall’altro.
Of all of McEwan’s works that I have read thus far, the common theme is the impending feeling of dread that something pretty bad will happen (or at least come close to happening), and no book made me more nervous than this one.The novel concerns an English couple, named Colin and Mary, who are vacationing in a city which is never mentioned, though one that sounds an awful lot like Venice, Italy.
Tellingly the best part of their holiday is spent,cooped up inside their hotel room,rediscovering their lost passion for each-other:"The thing about a successful holiday is that it makes you want to go home."Indeed going away would've been better than the fate that awaited them.It's a twisted little tale where the guilty party is first presented in such a sympathetic light that you don't initially root for the wronged couple,snickering that these dumbos deserve it but as the penultimate & final chapters play out,you realise,horrified,that these are"ordinary people" like us.Robert is one of those psychopathic characters in literature that are fascinating & chilling at the same time: a product of a cold & cruel household,he is a damaged person,possibly a victim of incest (the "bad dreams" of his childhood) & a repressed homosexual (the hint is that his horrible father is also one).I'm reminded of Blanche duBois from 'A Streetcar Named Desire',who,while being led away to be institutionalised,says that she has always depended on the kindness of strangers.
Having just finished 'First Love,Last Rites'(FLLR) and been nauseated by the whole sickness of the themes I was very wary of reading anything else by him but as i had bought the three books and as i have always lived by that creed of when you fall off a bike get right back on it again or you might lose your nerve I reclambered on the McEwan cycle.
He doesn't draw out the significance but it punctuates the narrative like a mantra and I found myself beginning to cringe and squirm.The story starts understated and the boredom of the lovers at the beginning infects the reader but in just the same way their gradual discoveries and realizations also affect.
I'm sorry, Ian McEwan, but I don't believe you.There is nothing about this book that convinces me that any of these people could exist in the real world.
McEwan's repeated insertion of long descriptive clauses instead of proper names seems more like the kind of pointless exercise that might be set on a creative writing course than what I want to read in a novel.The only redeeming feature of this book is that McEwan is good at setting up situations that seem really creepy and that make you feel that something awful is about to happen.
Ήταν έτοιμοι να αρνηθούν με αγανάκτηση πως έπλητταν".Η υπέροχη παράγραφος παραπάνω περιγράφει ότι χρειάζεται να ξέρει κανείς για την Μαίρη κ τον Κόλιν, το ζευγάρι που πρωταγωνιστεί σε αυτό το ιδιαίτερα ατμοσφαιρικό βιβλίο του McEwan.
Αυτό εδώ ήταν μόλις το δεύτερο βιβλίο του McEwan που διαβάζω (έχω ένα κακό αναγνωστικό κουσούρι, αν το πρώτο βιβλίο που διαβάζω από κάποιο συγγραφέα με ενθουσιάσει καθυστερώ πάρα πολύ να πιάσω το επόμενο.
Μου αρέσει πως διαχειρίζεται τις εμμονές του ο McEwan κ μέσα στο '18 ευελπιστώ να πιάσω κ τα υπόλοιπα βιβλία του, για αρχή τα πρώτα που κυκλοφόρησε μιας κ τα έχω ήδη στη βιβλιοθήκη3.5*
As always, Ian McEwan tells this tale with remarkable descriptions, ensuring that the readers see everyone and everything in the novel the way he himself has pictured it.
Pretty much nothing happens up until more than half of the book, which almost made me stop reading it out of complete boredom.
McEwan tries to re-stir interest into the reader through the Mary-waving-from-the-sea bit, but fails miserably.
Furthermore, McEwan - with all his colorful descriptions in the entire novel - leaves the best bits out near the end that I had so longed to read about, leaving the denouement completely anti-climactic and the entire book practically a waste of time.
I never finish The Cement Garden, by the same author,therefore I'm pleasantly surprised to find The Comfort of Strangers so appealing.The story is very simple: a pair of well-to-do, fine looking, highly educated couple went to an unnamed, tourist-crowded city (strongly hinted at as Venice), they hanged out in their hotel, had many comfortable but not passionate sex, visited a few tourist attractions and wandering in the maze-like streets of the city; soon they encountered a stranger, who was very, very friendly toward them.
Ed il fattore - tempo ha un'incidenza determinante.Per questo libro (del 1981) il fattore - tempo è impietoso: è datato ed invecchiatissimo.I due protagonisti sono due "giovani adulti" radical - chic: si capisce che fanno gli artisti, lei è attrice in un "collettivo teatrale femminile" ed ha un paio di uscite tipicamente vetero - femministe, ma non è che abbiano granché da fare.
Tuttavia (all'epoca la "classe media" era numerosa e florida, contava su patrimoni accumulati che consentivano una lunga permanenza nella condizione di adolescenziale nullafacenza) si permettono una lunga vacanza in una città mediterranea, che si capisce benissimo essere Venezia.
Cosa che potevano benissimo fare anche vicino a casa in un albergo ad ore.

Una coppia come Colin e Mary, i protagonisti di questo breve libricino, che incedono a piccoli passi nella vita e nel loro rapporto che è scandito da una quotidianità fatta di rituali e procedure, di giorni uguali agli altri, di sguardi schivi.
A spezzare la monotonia, la quotidianità ci pensa una nuova figura, oserei dire sinistra, che aleggia su di loro, che in qualche modo rompe gli argini.
Una figura, un essere misterioso che sembra manovrare le fila delle loro vite come un burattinaio facendoli sprofondare in un abisso e dando al romanzo quel tocco noir che lascia annichiliti e che sconvolge, come un perfetto thriller orchestrato sapientemente da McEwan.
Lettura veloce, incalzante che trasmette gradualmente la curiosità e l'angoscia del finale. La riuscita è decisamente migliore rispetto a "Chesil Beach". A questo punto, mi cimenterò con qualcos'altro di McEwan, anche se sono ancora un po' scettica.
This, too, affects the poignancy that the final, post-climax pages might have had; while reading them, I couldn't help but recall the far stronger emotional punch of the final minutes of Don't Look Now.There's one section of the novel that isn't low-key.
But there's a big difference between, so to speak, thinking in longer paragraphs and just stringing together several shorter ones to create a solid block of type.And McEwan really ought to learn how to use commas.Come to that, the publisher of the reprint edition that I read (Anchor/Doubleday, 2002) should be looking to its laurels too.
We thus headed out into this strange city with dark, winding streets, irregular lighting and no knowledge of where we were going.
Much of their behavior, or their lack of motivation and inaction, caused me to fail to sympathize with these characters.
And why did they continue their contacts with the mysterious people whom they met?McEwan has presented the reader with a dark, almost gothic novel, replete with scenes of sexuality and violence.
As previously noted, the actions of the characters evoked many questions which have caused me to continue to ponder over this book.
This is by far McEwan’s darkest book and he sets the mood perfectly.
Mary and Colin are on holiday, experiencing some unexplained dissatisfaction with each other until a seemingly random encounter with Robert.
McEwan has written about the impact of strangers once in “Enduring Love,” but Robert and Caroline are more calculating than the obsessive Jed. The conclusion is more shocking then “The Cement Garden.” Robert and Caroline’s exploitation of Mary and Colin reminded me a bit of “Beast” by Joyce Carol Oates, another novella dealing with similar themes.
What tended to happen, to Colin and Mary at least, was that subjects were not explored so much as defensively reiterated, or forced into elaborate irrelevancies, and suffused with irritability.This slim weapon is a foggy retreat into the nuptual neuroses during the holiday abroad. All baggage isn't declared at Customs. The soul is a mule through Passport Control. Regret and doubt are the rogue's liquidity, the same for the spouse. Lifting Blanche's best line will ultimately avail with kinky proposals and a nightlight stilleto. Beware.
This is a pretty average Ian McEwan novel for the most part.
It is quite easy to be drawn into the stories apprehensive and dark mood.
McEwan, again, unlocks the door to the dark side of humanity, revealing its intricacies for his readers.
I did feel that his charqcterization here lacked depth.
The story seemed meant to be read with a certain amount of emotional distance, and while I did like it, I was left feeling empty.
A short, intriguing read with an immersive quality, but definitely not among Ian McEwan's best.
The tension created from the reader’s knowledge that, right to the end, they could have walked away from it all, is enormous.The novel’s air of unreality persists after the murder (an episode passed over briefly, in a few lines).
At the end, an official leads Mary away from the morgue: “...
Ordinariness prevailed for an instant, and she had the briefest intimation of the grief that lay in wait.”I was going to say that I did not like this book as much as some of McEwan’s later novels; I’m not sure why, as it is as spare and well crafted as any other (though "ordinariness" is an uncharacteristically clumsy word).
It was only because I realized that the "strangers" of the title, Robert and Caroline, reminded me of the baroque doms and subs of The Bloody Chamber, and that that book had been published two years before this one and was certainly a waking hours influence on McEwan that I eventually continued.I, in the end, read this book more as an allegory about self-destructive and self-annihilating behavior of any kind, rather than an articulate or coherent thesis about the relationship between sex and violence.When we meet Colin and Mary, a "very ordinary" English couple, they are rudderless.
I would've given it two stars if the writing wasn't so on-point and the author wasn't so good at creating an atmosphere.I was captivated by the way McEwan so precisely defines the tiny, nagging feelings that creep up from travel fatigue, boredom in a relationship, and sexual stagnation.
After all the precise writing, McEwan left it vague as to why Colin and Mary went back to Robert's house to begin with.
Why didn't you fuck Colin to death?
Fuck Mary to death too!
And why did Robert and Caroline wait for Colin and Mary to return?
I didn't quite like this. I couldn't find many redeeming features. Of course Ian McEwan’s writing is economical and beautifully crafted and in his unique way he can build this tension and take you with him but I couldn't bring myself to care for any of the characters. I couldn't identify with them. I felt that they were two dimensional. Yes, the story does take you along with that impending danger lurking in the background. But I wanted to find something satisfying about it.
Pavese'nin "Yolculuk bir yabanıllıktır. Sizi yabancılara güvenmeye, evinizde ve dostlarınızın yanındayken duyumsadığınız bütün o alışılmış huzurdan uzaklaşmaya zorlar. Sürekli olarak başınız döner. Temel şeyler dışında -yani hava, uyku, düşler, deniz ve gök dışında- hiçbir şey size ait değildir, her şey sonsuza ya da bizim sonsuz diye düşlediğimiz şeye yönelir." sözleriyle başlayan, yabancılıktan, aşktan, sokaklardan, ilişkilerden bahsederken şiddete, ölüme giden sürükleyici bir hikâye.
I enjoyed The Comfort of Strangers. It is a novel that draws you into it, pointing out aspects of interest along the way in an attempt - but not fully succeeding - to divert your attention from an uneasy feeling that creeps in from the beginning. Something’s not right - but what? The tension builds page-by-page until finally, the full realisation of what is about to occur is revealed - nothing can prevent it.
Big disappointment, since I loved some of McEwan's other books. Bizarre, disturbing, depressing but ultimately pointless.
"De ce-o fi atat de infricosator sa iubesti pe cineva asa de tare? De ce-o fi atat de inspaimantator?"
I could not put this book down so I wound up in a dark polarizing place.
Che decolla invece repentinamente quando i due incontrano prima Robert e poi la moglie Caroline, due  strani personaggi ottimamente descritti da McEwan, che prima ravvivano la loro vacanza e quindi la sconvolgono trasformandola in un terribile incubo.Colin, impacciato e troppo spesso inadeguato alle situazioni che subisce invece di affrontarle e Mary, incapace di interpretare i fatti e vittima di equivoci, non riescono a comprendere cosa stia loro succedendo.Di che cortesie parla McEwan nel romanzo?
Di quelle cortesie che magari si trasformano in perversità e malvagità.McEwan scrive molto bene, con uno stile lineare, lento e dettagliato; in questo caso poi la lentezza della sua prosa induce un senso di attesa, di angoscia, di oppressione, che aumenta l'intensità del crollo finale, che non lascia scampo.Quale è il messaggio che voleva trasmettere McEwan con questo libro?
I'm struggling to even think of enough things to say about it since 90% of the book is about our protagonists being incompetent tourists, while the other 10% is filled with random people being as entertaining as they are random.
The pointlessness of it all is only exasperated by the characters who are in a constant state of surreal idiocy, which the author somehow manages to make seem plausible, yet thinking critically about anything they do, you're left rolling your eyes.
There were moments of curiosity at what's going to happen next and how things will ultimately play out which redeemed the book somewhat.
Fácilmente el peor libro de Ian McEwan que he leído. Es que no hay por donde cogerlo. Colin y Mary, una pareja muy aburrida se van de vacaciones a Venecia y allí conocen a Robert y Caroline, un matrimonio muy estúpido. Lo que pasa después es tan estúpido que no merece la pena ocupar más líneas.
McEwan is an author who garners such strong opinions, good and bad.
If you've read my reviews of McEwan's first two books, First Love, Last Rites or The Cement Garden, you probably know that old McEwan had a distinctly macabre style once upon a time.
In fact, his earliest works remind me considerably of the kinds of stories Stephen King might have written.The Comfort of Strangers, McEwan's second novel, continues this King comparison, but also shows a break from it.
The primary difference is that The Comfort of Strangers shows more of McEwan's elaborate style.
Io non ci ho trovato proprio niente di particolare in questo libro. Il finale, abbastanza prevedibile, non mi ha né sconvolto né entusiasmato. Non mi è piaciuto affatto.
Litterär trängsel råder på caférna kring Markusplatsen. Där sitter sedan tidigare John och Laura från Du Mauriers 'Don't Look Now' vid sidan av det amerikanska paret med självmordspakten från Nessernovellan och nu riktar Ian McEwan kameralinsen mot Colin och Mary. Ute på Lido ligger Gustav von Aschenbach och spanar. Faktum är att de alla liknar varandra, vilsna i Venedig, fast alla är olyckliga på sitt sätt. Såg filmversionen omedelbart efter läsningen och det hela blev en riktig bok&film-upplevelse: Christopher Walken, Helen Mirren, Natasha Richardson och Rupert Everett. Läsinspo: Sigges hylla-segmentet i Babel.
