https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/758406.The_Mirror_of_Ink
الترجمة جعلت القراءة مستحيلة.. مؤسف.
لن تكون الأخيرة ..فكيف يمكنني أن أتوقف الأن وقد بدأت معك عالم جديد وروح جديدة وثقافة أخري ومعلومات نادرة بحثت عن مصادرها كثيراً ولم أجدها !!ولا أدري حقا من أين جئت بها !!فمصادرها نادرة للغاية ..
؟لا أنكر أنني بحثت عن هذا الكتاب كثيراً علي الانترنت ولم أجده ..
بل ولم أجد اي معلومات عنه أيضاً ..!واعتقد أن الكتاب قد حُرق مع باقي أعماله الأخري ..
واعترف لك بأنه إحصاء من نوع غريب لم أجده من قبل في أي كتاب ..
وهذا ما علمت أنك بارع فيه ..لذلك سأبحث لك عن هذا الجانب في باقي أعمالك ..وسأنتظر حتي اكمل معك الـ 5 نجمات(:
أي كتاب يترجمه محمد عيد إبراهيم ففر منه
بورخس : القارئ و الساخر و الفاتن و المجنون و صديقي هذا الكتاب مختارات قصصيّة من عدّة كتب له ... لعلّه أكبر ما صدر له بالعربيّة , يُضاف إلى القصص - الوفيرة- فيه ديوان شعر - لم يعجبني ربما بسبب الترجمة- , و ملحق بالمقالات لا تسألونني لماذا أحبّ بورخس ... هكذا أحبّه
My first book for 2016 ; I read Jorge Luis Borges for the first time following a recommendation by a very close friend of mine. This book contains a set of short stories by Borges which are inspiring and haunting at the same time. His ideas in 'The Library of Babel' where he views the entire universe as a set of infinite hexagonal rooms full of books are mesmerizing. Highly recommended book. I also need to read more books by Borges.
I enjoyed the several stories, not all of them, though. Some were a bit vague — though I might have to reread them. I feel like all stories were big metaphors for elements of life, but I didn’t grasp all of them. The diversity of cultures in which the stories took place was very refreshing. On a slightly more negative note: there was a big absence of female character, it was an all men’s tale.
أنهيّت قراءته لأجل بورخيس ، لأعرف لما لا يكتب رواية طويلة وما قرأ وما جمع من كتاباته ، بورخيس عظيم كتب وقرأ بمسودات دون مراجعة ، لذا يبدو غير مفهوماً عدة مرات ، ولا عزاء لعجز الترجمة ، يبقى بورخيس مُلهم
Seven of Borges supposedly best short stories brought together for Penguin's slim pocket book collection of great literary authors.
The short story that really caught my attention was "The Library of Babel", where a hyper surrealist scenario leads the reader into labyrinthine and evocative imagery.
It's set in a library the size of the universe, where everyone is a librarian in charge of a section with a pre-determinate amount of books.
In this eternal maze of books, the possibility arises that the truth about existence might exist in one or more books, and maybe God himself is one of the librarians.
To reviewThe Mirror of Ink 5/5The Lottery in Babylon 4/5The Library of Babel 6/5The Theme of Traitor and Hero 5/5The Witness 5/5Ragnarök 5/5 Blue Tigers 6/5
تقييمي خاص بالواحد والخمسين صفحة الأولى ومقال ص 300باقي الكتاب لا يستحق القراءةلإني استخرجت أفضل مقو
His extraordinary way of capturing the world, or rather the universe, in an extended image is remarkable.
'The library of Babel' is arguably his best known text and best known metaphor for the universe and the sensibility of our lives.
This small selection portrays Borges's oeuvre excellently and shows why he is regarded as one of the most influential authors of the twentieth century.Borges word beskou as een van die belangrikste skrywers van die twintigste eeu.
Die kwaliteit van sy skryfwerk verhef hom kop en skouers bo die skrywers in die Penguin 60s en die Penguin 70s tot op datum.
This is one of those 70 Pocket Penguins anniversary editions which are culled from longer works. It's a sampling of a few short stories from Collected Fictions translated by Andrew Hurley though the translator was not identified in this little book. Borges is better absorbed in small doses. Some of the memorable stories included here are the suspenseful "The Lottery of Babylon" and sudden fiction like "Ragnarök."
كنت دائمًا أفكر, ماذا لو كتب بورخيس روايات طويلة, ربما سيتفوّق على ملحمة ألف ليلة وليلة؟!أنا لا أبالغ هنا. لكنها الحقيقة.. كتابات هذا الأرجنتيني العظيم أيًا كانت, لها شكل مختلف تمامًا. لها طعم لذيذ جدًا ولها عُمق ورائحةهنا, كما في بقية أعماله. جاء متبخترًا بما يملكهويستحق النجوم كاملةإلّا أن الجدير بالذكر, والمهمالترجمة سيئةوهذا على صعيدٍ خاص - مؤسف جدًا.
بورخس الجميل ..
A beautifully written collection of stories. They are occasionally opaque but that is more likely due to my ignorance of classical references than Borges writing. The mood is as strong as the philosophy and intellect and there is a delicious flavour of mysticism and fantastical history that smooths out any disorientating strands. A small but densely packed gem.
لم أجد تلك المرآة التي أبحث عنهاخيب ظني كثيرا وفقدت ثقتي باختياراتي لهذا العام
The bulk of the Goodreads reviews on this book--a collection of seven Borges stories--seem to be pretty ambivalent.
I don't know why: some of these stories are Borges at his best, and his best is mind-blowing.
I actually hadn't read much of him in English before this book; most of my experience with him has been in the original Spanish, in and out of academic contexts.
I have to say, I do enjoy him a little more in English, simply because while my Spanish reading comprehension is (or was at the time) decent, it isn't really at Borges's level.
Reading this, I thought, "This man is pretentious." After reading it, I read the back cover. Penguin finishes their description of the author by calling him a genius. Gah. He obviously felt he had to write like a "genius". This is a very small book of short stories, yet I almost disgarded it before I'd finished. The one story I appreciated was "Blue Tigers", although it annoyed me the narrator claimed to be from Aberdeen, but otherwise didn't seem in the least bit Scottish, much less from the Northeast.
this book is a small collection of some of borges tales, edited no a special collection to celebrate peguin 70th birthday. it wasmy first incursion into this author and I have to say that ii was insatisfatory, not because of the quality of borges writing but because of the quantity! this was to little, it gave only a little hint of borges style and world but not enough to get me really introcuced to him.I loved the writting style and the strange universe presented, and I'll be reading more of the author.
I have to say i found this so very hard going for such a small book. The blurb states that this is a collections of some of the authors best stories; however if this is the case i like only one of them; and not enough even to want to read another.I have to say i wasnt amused by this book in the slightest
This little book, some eighty rupees when I picked it up in Baroda, was my introduction to the fantastic world of Jorge Luis Borges' prose. Borges' themes of fixations, uncertainties, probabilities, infinities and more are rendered in wonderful language. These are the kinds of stories you wouldn't mind leafing through again and rediscovering the ideas in them. Highly recommended.
Suspend your preconceptions of life, reality and what a story is and go along for the ride. There is much to savour in this small collection. Certainly it is not for everyone but for me I found this a pleasurable diversion that also had me thinking ...
A very brief slice of Borges' writing, which should be enough to give people a taste and want more, although anyone not taken by these seven may be put off exploring more and missing out. I enjoyed them though.
This is an interesting collection of short stories with an unusual philosophical slant to them.
SHEER GENIUSI NEED MORE
Seven short stories. Not the style of book I usually read, I enjoyed some of the stories but struggled with the language of others. I read this in one sitting.
Jorge Luis Borges deserves more than five stars. His storytelling is masterful.
