https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20342617-just-mercy
Not since Atticus Finch has a fearless and committed lawyer made such a difference in the American South. Though larger than life, Atticus exists only in fiction. Bryan Stevenson, however, is very much alive and doing God's work fighting for the poor, the oppressed, the voiceless, the vulnerable, the outcast, and those with no hope. Just Mercy is his inspiring and powerful story.
Bryan Stevenson is in the Netflix documentary the 13th.
What I will say is that This is a Very Important Book!
If you have not read it you must!!!
If you have not read it you must!!!
It should be required reading for high school.
I had no idea the injustice that occurred in this country when it came to death row.
Bryan Stevenson is an incredible man for all that he has done for death row inmates.
I'm so glad they are!Put it at the very very top of your to read list!
It's that important!
Just Mercy: Following the Road Less Taken Just Mercy: A Story of Justice and Redemption was chosen as a Group Read for June, 2015, by On the Southern Literary Trail. My special thanks to Jane, my good friend who nominated this selection.   Bryan Stevenson Bryan Stevenson has written a compelling memoir with Just Mercy: A Story of Justice and Redemption. This is an important work which should be read by any individual who is concerned with the concept of Justice and incidents of Injustice that me
This is an important work which should be read by any individual who is concerned with the concept of Justice and incidents of Injustice that merit compassion and mercy.Stevenson, the founder of the Equal Justice Initiative, and its Executive Director, is a committed advocate opposed to the imposition of the death penalty, an advocate for unjustly imprisoned children, and an iconic American citizen at the forefront of discussing racism as reflected in the Judicial System.
Just Mercy: A Story of Justice and Redemption revolves around the case of an innocent man, Walter McMillian, a black man who had a white girl friend in Monroe County, Alabama, framed by the Sheriff, the District Attorney, and convicted by a Jury for the murder of a clerk in a dry cleaner's shop.
During this time he spent many hours seeking appeals for inmates on death row.”I wasn’t prepared to meet a condemned man.”"I had never seen the inside of a maximum security prison and certainly had never been on death row.”Steve Bright, the head of the project, met his plane.
He told Bryan”Capital punishment means ‘them without the capital get the punishment.’ We can’t help people on death row without help from people like you.”It came time for Stevenson to meet one of the men in a case they were working on.
When it’s time to leave Henry just asks that Stevenson come back again.
Well, I suspect it'll drag you kicking and screaming from your happy place, but I defy you to read Bryan Stevenson's remarkable Just Mercy and not come away affected in some way. If you are at all interested in racial and/or sociopolitical injustice, specifically as it applies to our country's (and more specifically, my adoptive home state, Alabama's) seriously flawed justice and penal systems, this is the book for you. Absolutely haunting, heartbreaking, and unforgettable.
(Even after the US Supreme Court ruled life without parole couldn’t apply to juveniles, Pennsylvania said it didn’t apply to those already convicted.
These two books will shock and dismay you when you read the total incompetence or corruption of the southern police force.
But this book has cemented in my mind that there are too many reasons that require me to be opposed to it.
As Stevenson says, “the real question of capital punishment in this country is “Do we deserve to kill?””This is a sad book and it is not an easy read.
Most gunshot victims don't die after nine months, and it was surprising that the state was seeking the death penalty in this case." INJUSTICE!!!!Bryan Stevenson's book "JUST MERCY.
It was maybe the most revolutionary book -- ( an opening for transformation),to date on the subject...but I had such a challenging time getting past the authors style of writing.
"WE MUST REFORM A SYSTEM OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE THAT CONTINUES TO TREAT PEOPLE BETTER IF THEY ARE RICH AND GUILTY THAN IN THEY ARE POOR AND INNOCENT." **Thank you to my several Goodreads friends who read this book before me...
Please note, if this was a review of the author, Bryan Stevenson's, career and life story, my rating would be 5+ stars.
My impression of and respect for Bryan Stevenson as an individual is extremely high and would go well beyond a 4 star rating.I felt like I was in a constant state of shock while reading the never-ending examples of case law describing people being mistreated and wrongly convicted due to racism and/or to appease law enforcement personnel and goals.
People like him are what make this world a better place!I had to be in "full concentration mode" while reading this book as it is very factual, with a lot of statistics and examples.
With all the recent protests across the nation, sparked by the high-profile deaths of several unarmed black men, this is an incredibly timely read.This book is an account of the author, Bryan Stevenson, and his life calling.
Throughout this book, the focus is on race and property, children in prison, mass incarceration, and the death penalty.While this book looks at the historical doggedness of injustice and specific court rulings, it also includes deeply personal accounts of those who have lived, and not lived through it.
Stevenson states, " My work with the poor and incarcerated has persuaded me that the opposite of poverty is not wealth.
Having such fresh evidence of racism and violence in the South made the events discussed in this book all the more real.Bryan Stevenson is a lawyer in Alabama who works to defend the poor and the wrongly condemned.
Stevenson gave a good summary of his mission when he first met civil rights activist Rosa Parks, and she asked about his work:"Well, I have a law project called the Equal Justice Initiative, and we're trying to help people on death row.
We're trying to educate people about racial history and the need for racial justice.
Just Mercy: A Story of Justice and Redemption"I…believe that in many parts of this country, and certainly in many parts of this globe, that the opposite of poverty is not wealth… I actually think, in too many places, the opposite of poverty is justice… Ultimately, you judge the character of a society, not by how they treat their rich and the powerful and the privileged, but by how they treat the poor, the condemned, the incarcerated. Because it's in that nexus that we actually begin to understa
He then founded the Equal Justice Initiative (EJI), a nonprofit organization where he still serves as its Executive Director today.Although “Just Mercy” details more than a dozen cases, it focuses in particular on Stevenson’s fight to free Walter McMillan, an African-American man, who was falsely accused and convicted of killing Ronda Morrison, a young store clerk, white woman.McMillan’s crime was basically having an affair with a another white married woman.
I listened to the audio of Just Mercy as read by the author, Bryan Stevenson.
Interspersed throughout the account of Walter's story, Stevenson talks more briefly about many other cases and provides observations on the fundamental flaws in the system he works in.
Other powerful messages include: no one should be sentenced to death, children should not be treated as adults, actions stemming from poverty and mental illness should not be criminalized and everyone should be entitled to good legal representation at trial.
Listening to him talk about his work in his own words is very powerful, especially when he describes his reaction to certain situations or gives voice to some of his clients.
Highly recommended reading for anyone interested in the U.S. justice system (or curious about why some people don’t feel they receive equal treatment under the law).
In Just Mercy: A Story of Justice and Redemption, Bryan Stevenson presents what could be dry statistics or empty outrages as stories about real people.
How can we as a country improve our justice system?
If you read this book (and you should), anger is nearly unavoidable.
What to do with that anger is another question entirely.
These types of death penalty cases, all need someone like Bryan Stevenson, who has the courage to step up on their behalf, calling attention to their plight.
His passionate deliverance, told with authority and confidence, drives home the truth he wished to convey to us.Now that Stephenson has told his story, I hope the attention he’s drawn to so many injustices aimed at the poor, children, and the mentally ill in addition to calling attention to mass incarceration, others will feel inspired by his compassion, will work for those in need, and will raise the level of consciousness, and will inspire all of us to keep our eyes and eyes open, to stay informed instead of looking the other way, and help, in our own way, even if it simply means passing this book along to someone else in order to raise awareness.

Just Mercy was heartbreaking and inspiring at the same time.
I felt a wide range of emotions while reading it, including sadness, anger, and frustration.
I knew our system is broken but I wasn't aware to what extent.
It was infuriating to read how far behind the times some states are, most notably, Alabama.
Before reading this book, I was fairly confident in my views re: the death penalty, and punishments by imprisonment in general.
This book changed my views on some things.
I highly recommend Just Mercy to anyone - there is something to be gained from this book, for everyone.

EJI works with communities that have been marginalized by poverty and discouraged by unequal treatment.” (EJI website).Its Executive Director since the founding of EJI in the late 1980s, Bryan Stevenson wrote Just Mercy to bring readers close to the issues of mass incarceration and the injustices of a broken criminal justice system that condemns children, the mentally ill, non-violent offenders, and wrongly accused to death from life imprisonment or capital punishment.
The book highlights several cases of people wrongly imprisoned, and sentenced to death, for crimes they clearly did not commit.
In other cases, while crimes were committed the punishments far outweighed the magnitude of the crimes.At the time of the book's writing guess which place had the largest population in the world of children sentenced to life in prison without parole for non-homicidal crimes?
Through the tireless work of the Equal Justice Initiative, Bryan Stevenson brought a case to the U.S. Supreme Court which ruled that life in prison without parole sentences for children convicted of non-homicidal crimes is unconstitutional.
Eighteen years later another inmate contacted Bryan Stevenson’s Equal Justice Initiative describing Joe as disabled, horribly mistreated and wrongfully condemned.
You're dumb, and you don't care and you think you are eternal.”On May 17, 2010 the Supreme Court ruled that Joe Sullivan's life sentence constituted cruel and unusual punishment.
The closer we get to mass incarceration and extreme levels of punishment, the more I believe it's necessary to recognize that we all need mercy, we all need justice, and-perhaps-we all need some measure of unmerited grace.”There are many excellent articles and books on the subject of America’s prisons but nothing that will touch your heart more profoundly than the stories that Bryan Stevenson tells.
In that case, if mistakes, accidents, or purposeful crimes are committed against the accused, we cannot use a death penalty, morally.
It’s a story that makes one angry and grateful, all at the same time.On my blog I post a 30-minute TED talk by Bryan Stevenson that explains some of the things he's learned about wrongdoing since he began working with death-row inmates nearly thirty years ago.
He says in that TED talk that he learned that people are more than their crimes.
We want to end unfair sentences in criminal cases and stop racial bias in criminal justice.
I brought up many of its major points in my history and government classes, hoping to spark discussion and bring light to recent changes in juvenile law.Stevenson’s new book follows him from a poor upbringing in Delaware, though uncertain years in college and into his early career as a lawyer, where he quickly discovers the country’s desperate need for real representation for the poor.
From his first face-to-face meeting with a death row inmate, Stevenson learns that the people he works with have histories, personalities, feelings and hopes that are often clouded by their crime.“‘It’s been so strange, Bryan.
“Why do we want to kill all the broken people?”-Bryan Stevenson “I don’t do what I do because I have to, because I’ve been trained to. I do what I do because I’m broken too. You cannot defend condemned people without being broken."-Bryan StevensonEye-opening, heart-wrenching nonfiction account that tore me apart. The above quotes sum it up. There's nothing else to say. We are all broken people.This is a great read to pair with the fictional book The Enchanted. This may need to be a reread. Wonder if Rene Denfeld would agree with Stevenson's assessment.
This is a must read book for anyone interested in and/or concerned about the American system of justice.
I always intended to write a full review of this book but instead have decided to provide a link to a review written by a Goodreads friend.
I hope you will read this.https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...This is a book which deserves to be read at a time when issues of justice are on every thinking person's mind.
Justice must be served "justly" or our system simply will not work.
Our system is not working.
Stevenson gives a clearly written description of some of the most pressing problems.A very strong 5*
A many award winning, nonfictional (though sometimes you'll wish it were) account of Bryan Stevenson, who as a young attorney, founded theEqual Justice Initiative, a nonprofit practice which sole purpose is to defend the most maligned by the legal system those serving time on deathrow for crimes they didn't commit.
Hopefully there will always be decent people out there seeking justice and mercy for all !!
I read Mercy before incidents such as the NFL kneeling campaign and other incidents put this subject " up front and center," and before another great book The Hate U Give one among many books more recently written about similar subjects.
To further explain and illustrate how the criminal justice system is set up and how it functions (or doesn't function), Mr. Stevens writes about some of the many cases he has taken on over the years… cases which illustrate the injustice, cost… in dollars and the dignity and self-respect of the prisoners and also the terrible mistakes that have been made which have allowed people to be imprisoned, only to be found innocent of the crimes later.To me, one of the most startling of the cases Mr. Stevens described was the case of Walter McMillan.
At one point in the book where Stevenson is asked what the goals of the Equal Justice Initiative are he replies with the list of goals in the following excerpt.
I have a law project called the Equal justice Initiative, and we're trying to help people on death row.
The book was published in 2014 so I presume the following excerpt provides a summary of their work up to that point.The number of death row prisoners in Alabama for whom we'd won relief reached one hundred.
We had created a new community of formerly condemned prisoners in Alabama who had been illegally convicted or sentenced to death row.
On a personal note: I read this a while ago, and you guys, I can't get it out of my head.
I hadn't ever felt comfortable with the idea, and if pressed, I'd have probably said I was against it, but now that I've read Just Mercy, I'm absolutely convinced.
He's so eloquent and intelligent, you really owe it to yourself to read the book.It's amazing to me that Stevenson, as someone who has dedicated his life to representing people whose lives have been ruined or ended by unjust punishments, was able to write this book in such a calm, measured, gracious tone.
I had to pause several times while reading this book to allow my mind to absorb the overwhelming context.
The author does a fantastic job giving the reader the history of racial politics of the South and how it has transcended through time.
"Constantly being suspected, accused, watched, doubted, distrusted, presumed guilty, and even feared is a burden borne by people of color that can't be understood or confronted without a deeper conversation about our history of racial injustice.""We need more hope.
We need more mercy.
We need more justice.""When you experience mercy, you learn things that are hard to learn otherwise.
These public officials are a disgrace to American law enforcement and they are almost never punished for their behavior, even when those they wrongly sent to prison are released 10, 20 or more years later, their lives ruined.Bryan Stevenson writes as well as the top mystery novelists, except his stories are true.
(http://www.eji.org/) which works to help correct the horrors of children sent to prison without possibility of parole, people on death row whose convictions are a travesty of justice, and minorities who do not get anything close to fair and equal treatment.
