https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/531197.Lyra_s_Oxford
(B) 74% | More than SatisfactoryNotes: Accomplishes its purpose as a solid ‘bonus’ story, but is too thin, both figuratively and literally, to be anything more.
“Everything has a meaning, if only we could read it.”
Lyra's Oxford is a lovely addition to His Dark Materials trilogy. Neat and fast-paced it's another great adventure for Lyra and Pan. A must-read for Pullman's fans.
"We just have to find out how to read it."I finished His Dark Materials (maybe better known as The Golden Compass trilogy) this summer for the second time and finally turned to this short story sequel, set in Lyra’s home after her travels, Oxford.
The book is small, and packaged beautifully, with wonderful engravings and a map of Lyra’s Oxford.
That happens, and there is some reflection on the complex nature of meaning.As a story it may not warrant four stars, but the package is cool, and to go backin such an elegant way, yay.
I still have to read the short story prequel he wrote, Once Upon a Time in the North.
"We just have to find out how to read it."Lyra the little liar is back in full force.
things are actually especially well, now that I know the author is working on a couple follow-up books that promise to be elephantine in size and scope.
and yay for little liars and adorable little daemons who are quite handy at sneaking up on other daemons and quickly grabbing them so that Lyra can do some impromptu interrogation.yay for Philip Pullman too.
it's great how a slim children's book like this one is able to cast such an all-encompassing spell on its reader so quickly.
Again, this little volume is cloth-bound and contains a number of illustrations along with these:The story takes place 2 years after the end of the trilogy His Dark Materials and tells of Lyra watching a flock of starlings when they suddenly attack a witch's daemon (it has to be a witch's daemon because it is alone).
She saves the daemon and then lets him persuade her to find a man who supposedly can help him save his witch, who is ill.
Suffice it to say that I was delighted to be back in this world one more time (I won't count the new trilogy as that takes place before Lyra's time).

This particular story is an easy, short and very enjoyable read - that is, if you've formerly enjoyed His Dark Materials books (and why wouldn't you have?
Perhaps this short story (novella?) isn't deserving of 4 stars in itself, but it filled me with nostalgic longing and I was reminded of the immense love I have for this series and how much it still means to me.
We forget these things sometimes, because other books happen and time with them, but this was a great reminder of a world I - if I have any - keep in my soul.

The setting is Oxford University about two years after the end of His Dark Materials trilogy. It's a very short story about Lyra Silvertongue, and hardly satisfies the multitude of fans patiently waiting for Pullman's follow up novel to his successful trilogy. Maybe this year or next he says.
What is there is very charming (and hints of future events, eh?) but the volume is so thin it's hard to rate it higher.
We find out that there are some special friends keeping an eye on Lyra which I got a kick out of while reading.
I read that Pullman is planning to put out more stories from His Dark Materials series.
My Kindle did a great job of allowing me to blow up certain things and I got to take a look at Lyra's Oxford.We also get some excerpts at the end of things mentioned throughout the other books (His Dark Materials #1-#3) too.
I am still salty that Lyra and Will cannot be together.
”Everything means something”I wondered how Lyra would come across after the events of the first trilogy and her being two years older. As it happens, she is still so easy to follow. Pantalaimon too and his chosen form... Nice short story that tintillates the reader while promising the hint of the future, especially with all the extra features in the book, such as maps, postcards, ads, etc. I’ll keep this in mind when reading Pullman’s Book of Dust trilogy, in case there are indeed clues :0)
I'd enjoy reading Pullman's grocery list, so my rating isn't to be trusted at all here.
Terminé de leer La Materia Oscura (quizás mejor conocido como la trilogía de La Brújula Dorada) al inicio de este año, justamente el día de hoy me entere de esta serie de relatos por lo que me puse a leerlos al instante, ambientada en la casa de Lyra después de sus viajes en Oxford.
Eso sucede, y hay una cierta reflexión sobre la naturaleza compleja del significado.Como una corta historia, no puede garantizar cinco estrellas, pero el libro es genial, y volver atrás de una manera tan elegante, ¡fue estupendo!
I loved the Dark Materials trilogy, and have a special affinity with Northern Lights because I bought it after quitting my job at British Gas (I walked out and didn’t go back) before taking it to the roof garden café of David Morgans where I stayed reading it until 8 o’clock at night.I started reading this story and it didn’t take me long to remember how magical the first books were.
The main story in the book is entitled Lyra and the Birds.
It starts with Lyra watching a flock of birds from which emerges someone’s daemon.
This is a strange little book, basically a beautifully bound short story set in the world of "His Dark Materials" and amongst the sleeping spires of Oxford, Lyra's Oxford that is.
I think its a nice little addition - i would not call it a twist but it gives the book an extra depth the story alone I feel lacks.
This book (along with "Once Upon a tile in the north") are side pieces to the original trilogy but they do give depth and character to that world.
So if you are a fan I would highly recommend these books.
I loved being back in Lyra’s Oxford (*waves to an early appearance of Malcolm*) but it’s a little pricey for such a teeny-tiny book! “Everything has a meaning, if only we could read it.”
It is after the events of His Dark Materials trilogy and features the familiar duo of Lyra Silvertongue and her daemon, Pantalaimon.
Both are stationed at Oxford, when a witch's daemon arrives, begging Lyra to help him find a person who's unknown to her...To say more would spoil the book, since it is so very short.
While it is certainly enjoyable, and Pullman's writing is as good as it was in His Dark Materials, it's just a short story.
But the story itself is like a bonus chapter which is sometimes included in novels; a preview of next in the series, or a new book by the author.
A very enjoyable addition to His Dark Materials. I do love that world.
"everything has a meaning, if only we could read it"i miss this world and these books so much, i'm definitely going to have to reread the his dark materials trilogy as soon as possible.
Volver a leer sobre Lyra y Pan me ha hecho recordar lo que sentí cuando leí la trilogía de La Materia Oscura cuando tenía apenas 12 años. Pullman vuelve a crear ese ambiente en apenas unas páginas y, aunque la historia no sea gran cosa, sirve como aperitivo para la nueva trilogía ambientada en el mismo mundo.
3.5 starsShort story about Lyra. I always enjoy going back to the characters of a series I liked. Lyra isn’t my favorite character though and the story didn’t add much to the main books nor was it a very intriguing story. Liked Scoresby’s background story better. I did like the added material.
It’s been a few years since I’ve read Philip Pullman’s His Dark Materials trilogy, but I remember it as being absolutely phenomenal reading: adventurous, philosophical, spiritual with wonderfully complex characters and the delightful heroine, Lyra, and her daemon, Pantalaimon.
In Lyra’s Oxford, we revisit Lyra and her daemon, Pantalaimon.
The events of this book take place after the His Dark Materials trilogy.
Again, there is a certain thrill in reading a book that casually mentions places I’ve been and the characters trod the same roads I did.
If you’ve never read Pullman’s trilogy (or any of his books), Lyra’s Oxford is a pleasant way of dipping your toe into his literary waters.
Linda historia corta. Está situada 2 años después del final de la trilogía y cuenta una aventura de Lyra y Pan en Oxford.Espero que ésto signifique que un día la historia va a continuar, porque no parece que se haya terminado. Por suerte.
Perhaps it provides some insight that will turn out to be worthwhile after Pullman publishes the sequel to the whole HDM series, but as it stands, this books does nothing.The worst part of it is that it doesn't even try to describe Lyra's psyche at all, two years after the war with God, and doesn't make any mention of anything else.Standing alone, this might be a good story.
So I didn't expect anything less.It still amazes me that Pullman knows his world so well that he throws in the most microscopic details [read, for instance, the entire map] that either have meaning in previous work, future work, or are, simply, necessary in understanding the world he's created.I always recommend reading other books in between the three of His Dark Materials, and I think the recommendation stands when reading the little companion books as well.
His next installment, Once Upon a Time in the North [a prequel to His Dark Materials] is due for an April 2008 publication and is already marked for pre-order.
This was a very quick read-sixty pages at the most, though I'm not sure, and I knocked it out in about half an hour.
This one will surely be a re-read though-I was doing some extreme multitasking.Philip Pullman's writing style draws me in, and envelopes me in worlds that no other author aside from Neil Gaiman can seem to put me in.
A definite recommendation for those who enjoyed the Golden Compass series (hence, LYRA'S Oxford), a descriptive yet still tail-streaming writing style, and a quick read for a visit to the doctor's.
I hate when authors don't know when to end something. His Dark Materials trilogy is OVER. We get that you're a sell-out, Philip Pullman (judging by the movie previews.. oh man).. just leave it alone. You wrote some great books. Now hush.
Such a cute intriguing addition to the world of Lyra Silvertongue. Made me remember fondly events in His Dark Materials and piques my interest for The Book of Dust.
