https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18774737-the-night-at-the-crossroads
Il commissario è di troppoHo letto molti libri di Simenon, ma fino a ora non ne avevo ancora affrontato nessuno con il celeberrimo commissario Maigret, forse perché normalmente il genere commissario/inchiesta/giallo non è tra i miei preferiti (non lo sopporto).Ma per giudicare bisogna provare, quindi ho deciso di iniziare da questo Il crocevia delle tre vedove, o Il mistero del crocevia, o anche La casa delle tre vedove o Maigret e la casa delle tre vedove, scritto nel 1931 e da cui sono stati tratti svariati film.
Non mi ero mai imbattuta in una sparatoria finora, non ricordo di aver mai letto del commissario con in mano una pistola e che la usi pure.
Poi c’è in questo breve romanzo anche un pizzico di horror, che pure non è tipico dei Maigret.
Se c’è un difetto in questo Maigret è forse che Simenon ha messo troppa carne al fuoco: sparatorie, inseguimenti, troppi personaggi coinvolti senza che la solita magistrale opera di approfondimento psicologico del commissario venga compiuta.
My least favorite so far of the recent batch of Penguin re-translations of Simenon's Maigret novels.
It was the story that decayed – character by character, half-life by half-life – until the bitter end.
It was one dull dénouement.I did like the bitter end, if only for its spite.
The killer (whose name I'll skip so as not to spoil), no doubt resentful of the dirty little role he was assigned, refuses to go gently.On Death Row, –––– ––––– spent his time waiting for his lawyer to arrive, bearing his pardon.
Can I have Else's black velvet dress?
Re-read this again, having just seen the latest ITV Maigret based on this.
Good television, but almost completely changed the plot.
Different villain (a corrupt policeman), complete loss of the atmosphere created by Simenon with three roadside buildings close to the Three Widows Crossroads, with three groups of protagonists, and the brilliant solution and denouement is dismissed with a wimper.
Disappointing, when the Simenon plot was so taut and tense, and brooding.My original review:A stunningly good early Maigret.
A brilliant and satisfying denouement too.
What a pleasure to be re-reading the first ten Maigrets, all issued in 1931, after a few years.
When the police turn up to investigate, they discover the neighbor’s car in the Andersens’ garage — with a dead man at the wheel!Carl Andersen swears he’d never seen the dead man — an Antwerp diamond merchant named Isaac Goldberg — before.
But both he and Else had heading toward Paris; Carl admits the pair panicked and fled upon discovering the corpse.
Could it possibly be true?The Night at the Crossroads comes packed with an odd cast of characters, including a garrulous boxer turned mechanic, a pompous insurance agent with an outsized sense of entitlement, his snoopy, querulous wife, as well as the Andersens themselves.

I won't say much in order not to give anything away. But what can I say? It's vintage Simenon at his best. The mystery will carry you through to the end. Maigret is a satisfying detective to follow around.
Intanto, continuo comunque a preferire il Simenon di "Tre camere a Manhattan" o di "L'uomo che guardava passare i treni", sebbene abbia trovato "Il crocevia delle tre vedove" una lettura più che buona; volendo, quasi una lezione su come si dovrebbe narrare e scrivere, che sono due azioni diverse, un racconto poliziesco; poiché Maigret non è fatto solo di trama ben congegnata, ma soprattutto di grandi personaggi; e poi, di ottima scrittura.
E anche qui, come in ogni giallo-noir che si rispetti, vi troviamo una femme fatale intrigante e malgrado tutto ben poco stereotipata, che Simenon riesce a caricare di erotismo e malinconia.
George Simenon.
***.This novel by Simenon featured Chief Inspector Maigret, although he was not mentioned in the title.
It all starts when a man is found dead in a car parked in a garage of one of three houses that comprised the neighborhood of the Crossroads.
The only thing that was of interest about the neighborhood was that one of the houses had belonged to three widows, a mother and her three daughters, all of whom were found dead in what was presumably a murder-suicide situation; interesting, but of no real relation to the plot.
I toni lugubri e spettrali dei primi capitoli svaniscono come fantasmi indirizzando il romanzo, dopo momenti di pura azione con sparatorie e inseguimenti, verso un epilogo sorprendentemente farsesco e quasi comico.Che strano.
Κυκλοφόρησε στα Ελληνικά, ως "Η Νυχτα Στο Σταυροδρομι", εκδόσεις Λιβάνης
After a seventeen hours interrogation, Detective Chief Inspector Maigret had no option than to set the detainee free, a Danish aristocrat named Carl Andersen.
He bought an old 5CV to do his shopping at the market in Arpajon with which he also used to come to Paris once a month to deliver his work to the firm Dumas and Son. Apart from that, he could not explain why the brand new car of his neighbour Monsieur Émilie Michonnet, an insurance agent who lived in a villa almost a hundred meters from his house, appeared in his garage on a Sunday morning with a dead man tilted over the steering wheel.
Consigliato solo agli appassionati del genere.Nelle prime pagine si nota il solito stile elegante di Simenon, che però tende stranamente a perdersi in azioni e sparatorie, non presenti spesso nelle sue opere.Altri gialli di Maigret hanno chiare tematiche, come la vecchiaia, la politica, il giornalismo.
E' una delle opere di Simenon che assomiglia più ai gialli della Christie, ma dal punto di vista della trama non è a quel livello.
Non condivido minimamente la scelta di questo giallo per la 1001-challenge.I romanzi psicologici di Simenon (senza Maigret) sono molto più "da leggere".
Although I consider myself a Simenon fan (for the Maigret stories, that is) I reluctantly admit that I did not like this one.
There is usually at least one endearing character you can get behind and sometimes a whole lot of them, or the plot is good.
I don't know if incomplete sentences (with no subject or no verb, or both...
It could be he wrote all his books with these kinds of sentences that aren't, and that when I like the book I don't mind that kind of writing.
But here I didn't like it and I did mind.
Lo ritengo ad oggi il Maigret che più mi ha convinto, per tutta una serie di motivi; in primis per l
This is a workmanlike performance by Simenon. Maigret reports to the sparsely inhabited countryside outside Paris to investigate an improbable scenario. The cast of characters ranges from mysterious to comic, and most anyone could be guilty of the murder that sets things in motion. There’s another killing and two attempted murders. Maigret works it out, and spends too many pages at the end explaining the crimes to the perpetrators, who, despite the baroque elements of the situation, mostly turn out be an ordinary bunch of petty criminals.
Apparentemente slegata e disomogenea la trama si dipana seguendo fili che porteranno a un unico bandolo.Ottimi lo spaccato della campagna francese e la contrapposizione fra altissima nobiltà, dal sangue blu tarato e la teppaglia asservita a una totale incapacità di riscatto. Media fra le due aree la sordidezza piccolo borghese.Amaro l'inizio, amaro il finale. Un Simenon d'annata, anche nella rappresentazione del femminino: becero quando retto, immorale se maliardo.
This is another remarkable study of the human condition: Maigret and his colleagues investigate a strange crime that had occurred at an isolated crossroads where three very disparate households sit equidistant from each other. Simenon was such a genius, with his ability to explore the human psyche in criminal settings and in spare, simple prose...each time I read one of his novels, I'm astounded yet again.
I am addicted to the 'Maigret' novels and this is the ninth I have read so far. It's much more action packed than the others I have read, involving lots of shootouts. The atmosphere is incredible. The setting of an isolated crossroads junction (with a garage and only three houses) that is nonetheless on a busy road is amazing. Simenon really had a special talent.
featuring an Italian named Guido Ferrari!lolracism
Probabilmente non sono oggettivo nel valutare i romanzi di Simenon con protagonista Maigret, ma a me piacciono tutti.In questo c'è anche un Maigret più aitante del solito: spara, si getta in un pozzo e rimane colpito dal fascino di una delle protagoniste femminili.
A corpse is found in a car, the car has been switched and placed in a neighbours garage. The accused man denies he has anything to do with the crime, and Maigret finds him unbreakable when interrogated. Three houses sited by a crossroads, there occupants may or may not be all they appear.
After seeing television version of this book I decided to give it a try, I wasn't disappointed. The plot is very much the same as the television version, but the book has a darker feeling to it. I will definitely being reading more of Georges Simenon's books.
La morte di un commerciante di preziosi belga, trovato nel garage degli ultimi ma sulla macchina nuova dell’agente di commercio, costringe Maigret al trasferimento in compagnia del fido Lucas (peraltro confinato come al solito in compiti di basa manovalanza) per un’indagine che si rivela subito complicata, ostacolata com’è dal muro di finzioni messe in atto da tutti gli attori sulla scena: quelle più intricatamente complicate fanno capo a Else, la donna danese che già dal suo primo apparire non si può fare altro che etichettare come femme fatale.
Book seven in the new Penguin editions using a more modern translation of these classic Maigret novels.Night at the Crossroads by George Simenon translated by Linda Coverdale.This was already one of my favourite stories from an earlier version and it was good to re-read it.When reading these books one needs to remember the time they were written and originally published.
All isn't what it seems but the inspector makes it his business to observe and hopefully the people he is watching and speaking with may give themselves away.I really enjoy the simple way Simenon writes and the range of scenarios he places his main character in; the crimes he must solve.
A tale that starts with a weird crime, a corpse sat in a car, with two cars swapped over into each others garage.
A bunch of weird people who live in these houses, and then later a further corpse.
Maigret (of course) solves the crime, discovers that all of the people living nearby are part of a smuggling ring, and sends one of them to the guillotine.
Not a terribly satisfactory tale - over-long for the number of clues, and Maigret's refusal to discuss his ideas and conclusions with his deputy grated a little (although probably very important to keep the narrative going!).
I have become addicted to Georges Simenon, and while I appreciate the Maigret crime novels somewhat less than the "psychological" books, this is a sensationally entertaining early Maigret (#7, published in 1931).
For once, the solution to the crime does not come out of left field; usually in these narratives, Maigret (or should I say, Simenon) has withheld some vital piece of information from the reader that could not possibly be guessed.
I have to say that aside from Inspector Maigret, I would be reluctant to rub elbows with any of the questionable characters who people this story!
I get the impression from reading other reviews that Night at the Crossroads is not perhaps an entirely typical Maigret novel, but I enjoyed it nevertheless.
I liked the succinct precision of the prose, the effortless storytelling and the simple but effective characterisation.
It's only 150 pages long and a quick and easy read, but nevertheless feels like a work of literary quality, written by a master of his craft.
I was surprised to discover that Night at the Crossroads was first published in 1931.
I know that Simenon had a very long career, and that there are over seventy Maigret novels, but I hadn't realised that the early ones appeared quite so long ago.

