https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27904311-the-hammer-of-thor
I finished it. I LOVED IT. OTIS IS MY FAV <3 Here's my full booktalk: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xy3Dd...
LOVED THIS SO MUCH. Rick Riordan just gets better and better with each series. This right here is proof that a book can be hilarious and fun and make the reader feel a whole range of emotions while also touching on some really important and relevant topics.I CAN'T BELIEVE THIS IS JUST A TRILOGY I NEVER WANT IT TO END BUT HOLY HELHEIM AM I EXCITED FOR THE NEXT BOOK.
*lol* For some reason the gods seem to like him though so this is actually kind of funny and weird at the same time.
This was such a typical Uncle Rick story and of course that immediately caused me to love every second of it.
I don’t know how Uncle Rick does it but he has such an amazing imagination that everything seems to make sense even though it doesn’t.
*lol* But then again I suppose that mythology is one of those things that rarely makes any sense and just the idea to use it as a basis for amazing fantasy books is actually more than just brilliant.
“Otis," I said."Shhh," he said. "I'm incognito. Call me...Otis.""I'm not sure that's how incognito works, but okay." The Hammer of Thor is the second book of the series. The book starts off with the quest which is about Magnus finding Thor's hammer. He has to fight against the giants, his uncle and LOKI. BIG BAD LOKI. AWWWW ! It looks promising, right ? And Alex is kinda kickass in this book. I liked her character, but not that much. Heart and Blitz are also my favorite characters, too. I have
The Hammer of Thor is the second book of the series.
The book starts off with the quest which is about Magnus finding Thor's hammer.
I have lost count of the moments when I laughed and cried over them.So why didn't I give this book five stars ?Rick Riordan has done many things in these last ten years or so.
However, last year I gave the Magnus series a try and liked it a lot after that.
If I didn't get a lot of work to be done this weekend, I would put this book on hold until next month.However, I still liked this.
I definitely thought this was another exciting and captivating instalment (although, still, like the first book...I think it got a bit rambly) and I loved the newly introduced characters and I loved how whacky all the gods were.
3 Magnus of course remains a top-favourite...although at times (this might seem weird to say...) he nearly felt like a secondary character in this story?!
Also Alex is a shape-shifting child of Loki so, like awesome is just in the top percentiles here.(SORRY I HAVE A SLIGHT SOFT SPOT FOR LOKI EVEN THOUGH HE'S EVIL HERE BUT HE'S ALSO TOM HIDDLESTON SO YEAH.)I love the Sam/Magnus/Alex trio!!
And by most people, I mean me."•I know that I have already raved plenty about how much I love this author and his characters, but Magnus Chase defies all standards of cutie-pie-ness and adorable-ness and funny-ness and whatnot.
People, meet Alex Fierro."I’m gender fluid and transgender, idiot."•And not only is Alex a great character as she (as said, Alex is gender fluid, but since in most of the scenes she appears as a female, I'll use this pronoun for convenience and because she made it clear that she doesn't do "they") represents diversity in such an unusual and compelling and absolutely perfect way, she is also likeable, relatable, kick-ass and a million shades of splendid.
YAAASSSSS!! Magnus Chase is going to meet Percy Jackson!! My two faves!!
“Otis and his brother, Marvin, pulled the god’s chariot. They also provided Thor with a never-ending supply of goat meat. Each night, Thor killed and ate them for dinner. Each morning, Thor resurrected them. This is why you should go to college, kids—so when you grow up you do not have to take a job as a magical goat." Rick Riordan's books are always some of my favourite books to read so Magnus Chase and the Hammer of Thor is no exception. That being said, it was even better than the first book
Rick Riordan's books are always some of my favourite books to read so Magnus Chase and the Hammer of Thor is no exception.
The Magnus Chase series feels different from Rick Riordan's other books as well, I'm not sure if it's because Norse mythology is a whole lot more intense or because he uses a series of diverse characters, but it is beyond enjoyable to read.
The big shock of this book is Rick Riordan introducing the first gender-fluid character in his books, Alex Fierro.
I can say so much about Alex, but they were honestly my favourite character throughout this book.
Nice Natalie: I don't like that we're always  here these days with Riordan's books.Cynical Natalie: Maybe if he wrote quality material, we wouldn't be here.
Hello, quest-with-sidekicks narrative 65.0.Nice Natalie: Oh, come on, you liked the plot!
You laughed a bunch of times.Cynical Natalie: I laugh at Vines, but that doesn't mean they deserve an Oscar.
(hide spoiler)] That plot thread is so loose, people keep mistaking it for the word "lose."Nice Natalie: They were on a tight schedule.
I'm sure they'll get back to it next book.Cynical Natalie: And don't even get me started on the ending.Nice Natalie: Oh boy, here we go.
Luckily he has his friends Samirah, Blitzen the fashion-forward dwarf, and the elf Hearthstone to help him, as well as a new acquaintance, Alex Fierro, the latest addition to the halls of Valhalla.The Hammer of Thor (2016) doesn’t diverge from Rick Riordan’s formula of mythological gods and smart-aleck half-blood children who are sent off on various quests and adventures in each book, but Riordan excels at telling a fast-paced, humorous adventure.
This book took me so long to get through for absolutely no reason at all BUT IT WAS SO WORTH IT. 5 STARS. ALSO ALEX IS MY NEW FAVORITE CHARACTER IN THESE BOOKS! (If that wasn't obvious enough before)
I'll admit there were times when I thought this book was a little too silly (again, maybe I'm slightly outgrowing middle grade books finally). Regardless, I still really enjoyed the story! I'll definitely want to pick up book 3!
Aaaaand the year of waiting for Riordan's next book commences! You'd think I'd be good at waiting since I've been doing this for so many years now but NOPE. At least there's THE HIDDEN ORACLE coming out on May 3rd...

This book felt like a basket case of déjà vu. Literally speaking.Sword that turns into utility item: ✔Stupid gods: ✔16 year old 'heroes' do all the quests: ✔Snarky do-gooder protagonist: ✔What is surprising is, despite the fact that it is near indistinguishable from the Percy Jackson series, this novel managed to hook me. It was funny. “Valkyrie business. Possible code three-eight-one: heroic death in progress.""You're making that up.""I'm not.""So...what, somebody thinks they're about to die an
You know, your usual Rick Riordan book.What made it worth reading was the diversity:✔ We have Samirah Al-Abbas (aka Sam, and my favorite person in this novel) who believes in Allah (and is the embodiment of badass: does her prayers by noon, and transports heroic souls by night)✔ There's Hearthstone, who might be my favorite elf ever.
But for me, personally, I don’t want to use the same pronouns all the time, because that’s not me.
They're so cute, they make me blush.----It's been so long since I read a Rick Riordan book, I can feel the absence of snarky puns and sassy high school protagonists fighting gods.
Me lo he pasado genial reencontrándome con Sam, Magnus, Blitz y compañía; y me ha encantado saber un poquito más de Hearth, de su historia y de su mundo.También quiero señalar una cosa que me ha parecido muy heavy, incluso para ser Rick Riordan: la introducción de un personaje genderfluid, Alex Fierro (que ya lo sabía porque lo leí en tumblr pero whatever).
No sé, quiero mucho a este señor.En fin, no puedo decir nada de este libro que no haya dicho de cualquiera de Rick.
And now, on to the good, the bad, and the iffy.The GoodSam's Religion In one respect, I do find it strange that this is the only time Rick has explored monotheistic religion in his demigods series (although I suspect that that's about to change), but what really worked with the exploration of Sam's faith was that it actually felt like something genuine and spiritual, not like he was just making a Point (which we'll get to later).
Even with its faults, The Hammer of Thor was still a fun read for me, which is always a good thing.The BadElf Police Rick had a lot of Points to make with this story, and for the most part, they worked.
"Just like the good old days: marching together into the unknown, searching for missing magical weapons and risking painful death. I’d missed my buddies!" Every time I try to ignore one of Uncle Rick's releases, or act like there are too many of his books for me to possibly still love them, I end up preordering it anyway and binge reading it. At this point I might as well admit I'm hopeless, and will be reading at minimum Magnus Chase and Trials of Apollo to completion. This was the perfect boo
Every time I try to ignore one of Uncle Rick's releases, or act like there are too many of his books for me to possibly still love them, I end up preordering it anyway and binge reading it.
Besides a few more childish jokes, I can tell that Uncle Rick's books are beginning to mature into novels I would consider much more young adult than middle grade.
are definitely much more mature and deeper than past books.
What other author talks about Netflix, Captain America, Star Wars, and Jessica Jones so freely in their novels?This book is also fantastic for Blitzstone fans, as we get a much deeper look into Hearth's childhood and many awesome bromantic scenes between everyone's favorite elf and dwarf.
October 23, 2016 UPDATE This magnificent book is already out and I haven't had the chance to read it. *sniff* #cryingoutloudOctober is getting closer!!! *dancing around* July 5, 2016 UPDATE You can find the first chapter here. April 30, 2016 UPDATE I'm late, as usual! I just seen the synopsis and sounds amazing...And the cover.... It's so beautiful!!! January 12, 2016 UPDATE The second book from Magnus Chase and the Gods of Asgard.....  October 4th.... I'm going to die... Why, Why??? Just:
✨Full series review here! The best way I can describe this series in one sentence is: a more diverse and woke version of Percy Jackson and if that doesn't want to make you read it then I don't know what will.
You understand there's no such thing as a little death prophecy, right? I really wish I could give this five stars (this is Rick Riordan's book after all!) but if I sit down, take a deep breath, and think about how many of these chapters Riordan's reused from his Percy Jackson & the Olympians series, I can't. I loved the characters, and the hilarious adventures Riordan writes about, but it's getting to be too much. Sure, there were some amazing, brand new scenes. But the rest? All reused wi
I really wish I could give this five stars (this is Rick Riordan's book after all!) but if I sit down, take a deep breath, and think about how many of these chapters Riordan's reused from his Percy Jackson & the Olympians series, I can't.
I loved the characters, and the hilarious adventures Riordan writes about, but it's getting to be too much.
And the last chapter got me super pumped for the next book, which is coming out in 2017 (!!!!!)Despite my complaints, I will always, always read Rick Riordan's books.
So keep writing, Rick!
THE REVIEWWhy this book?I really liked the first bookWhat I thoughtRick Riordan did it again another amazing book!
I just can't wait to get my hands on them and devour all the Rick Riordan goodness!!!
Can I just say how much I love the bromance between Blitz and Hearthstone!
I just love them!!!
One thing I didn't like though Sam and Amir drama,I just don't care!
That being said I just loved the hell out of this book definitely a must read (view spoiler)[One last thing why is Rick bringing Percy into this series?
It's totally unnecessary  (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Por eso, Magnus Chase tendrá que embarcarse en una nueva misión que lo llevará a recorrer varios mundos nórdicos, seguir pistas de cabras, salvar a sus amigos de la muerte y destrucción, evitar bodas macabras y ser más inteligente que el dios del engaño.
Llega un punto en el que no sabes si confiar en Alex, por ejemplo, ya que es hija/o de Loki.Si bien el libro, como decía antes, es un poco lento, todo se compensa con las grandes dosis de humor que Rick Riordan le imprime a todas las situaciones y a sus personajes.
The books doesn’t make it the only thing about these characters.
I love all the characters of the story and this is rare.
Alex, Sam and Hearthstone are my big favourite but I love Blitzen and Magnus so much too.
I loved that not once the book made fun of her religion, or made use of common misinterpretation or judgements.
Like always, I love that I’m reading and learning some stuff about North Mythology and North Gods at the same time.
And I definitely feel like this is the kind of book I would want my children to read.
I read like 5 chapters and then SHUT IT!!!!!I am truly honest when I say that I had never left a book in the middle before and this book was....umm how do I put it? Umm ok...boring, the hero dies in the first few chapters, first Rick Riordan's book that is utterly (umm) disappointing yadda yadda yadda.  I was immature and reckless then.I absolutely loved it. It helped me survive a week of school. xDThe ending was a bummer. I really like Alex Fierro and Jack the Sword.I absolutely love the sarca
I really like Alex Fierro and Jack the Sword.I absolutely love the sarcasm and humour in the book.“Etiquette tip: If you're looking for the right time to leave a party, when the host yells, "No one leaves here alive," that's your cue.” “Sam’s body language looked pretty stiff.
With my hammer!'We waited for Thor's mental gears to run.'Oh,' said the god.
You always have to face that one uncle you don’t want to see—you know, the one who pops out of a nutshell and demands a sword.” This is a great ending and will be a great beginning (for the next book)Annabeth smiled.
Este se convirtió en uno de mis libros favoritos del autor (y eso es MUCHO decir porque tiene una competencia bastante ajustada). ES TAN ÉPICO ‹3
Obviously.Like for the first book, I don’t want to talk about the plot because if I did, I wouldn’t be doing you a favour.I actually don’t have much to say in this review that I haven’t previously said in my review of The Sword of Summer .
but I’m going to talk about Alex Fierro, our new character and my Queen.
She’s not afraid to set straight someone who obviously has no respect for her, she tells things the way they are and if you’re not happy with that, then screw you.
It did not felt like his previous books whatsoever; Rick wanted to focus even MORE on the bond between friends, being there for each other physically AND mentally which made the quest less overwhelming in a good way (you know what i mean).
The plot was sooo engaging, fast paced, hilarious and sarcastic, as always; had me laughing out loud so many times.
Cheers to you Rick for making me feel that way.
I love this series sooo much!
I sooo hope we get to see Annabeth and Percy in the next book!
I cannot wait to read the next book!
