https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/492048.The_Brandons
Angela Thirkell is one of those writers whose books I believe I first came across at a library sale, and picked up primarily for Mom; she can be hard to find reading matter for sometimes, but a nice solid British novel from the thirties is usually a safe bet.
It plunked me down in the middle of Angela Thirkell's Barteshire Novels, but the structure of the series seems to be very forgiving of this sort of thing.
I've read Mapp and Lucia since finishing The Brandons, and I have to say that from this point of view Angela Thirkell's take on the upper middle class is a slightly kinder, gentler version of E.F. Benson's.
This story focuses on Mrs. Brandon, a lovely widow with two young adult children living at her late husband's home, Stories, in the village of Pomfret Madigral.
Mrs. Brandon is so lovely and kind to everyone, including her husband's tyrannical Aunt Amelia.
Miss Brandon changes her mind on a daily basis, torn between Francis and an unknown cousin of some sort-neither of whom want the Abbey.
His infatuation with Mrs. Brandon is silly and undeserved but I hoped he would find someone who would love him for his own limited intelligence and kind heart.
Nadia May did a terrific job narrating this novel & I enjoyed it even more this time around.
Mrs. Brandon annoyed me a bit when I first read this book but this time around I just found her amusing.I found that The Brandons reminded me of Jane Austen quite a bit more than the other Thirkell novels I've read...
I think it was the romantic sub-plot (view spoiler)[ between the old lady's companion Miss Morris and the reverend Mr. Miller -- Mrs. Brandon tries to fix her up with several other gentlemen, which reminded me of Emma, and the dislike Miss Morris professes for Mr. Miller reminded me of Elizabeth Bennett & Mr. Darcy.
Another winner from Angela Thirkell - - light and entertaining with all the required elements: a dying rich relative, a vicar, a spinster, the English countryside, a picnic, a misunderstanding, a happy ending.
Taking pleasure not only in baiting her relatives, Miss Brandon also seem to delight in keeping her niece-by-marraige, Lavinia Brandon and her children, Francis and Delia, on their toes.
Aunt Sissy seems to enjoy fostering resentment among her relatives with constant doom-and gloom references as to who will inherit her property.
The Brandons, however, don’t fall for their Aunt's devious plots.
An interesting (and sometimes puzzling) set of characters, none of them seem to really care who will be landed with the settlement.This is the crux of Angela Thirkell’s novel “The Brandons” but in between are several sub plots that, although seemingly light and frothy, have caused me ‘much to think’!
I mean:--> there was little action/events/plot (like in most of Thirkell books, I think)--> there wasn't a broken heart--> there was only one couple at the end (it wasn't typical for Thirkell, I think)--> there wasn't even one "sighing" scene.But, again: it was perfect!
I can go on and on like this.I simply love Thirhell's witty pen....or the fact that their great-great-grandfather had as a child sat on the knee of a very old man whose grandfather said he remembered someone who said he had heard of the Reformation.Mrs Grant...
Angela gently and affectionately portrays English country village life.
In this one Mrs. Brandon, an attractive widow, who is too kind for her own good, is featured.
The foibles and eccentricities of the family and their friends are amusingly skewered, but only in the kindest way.
The principals in the book await the demise of old Miss Brandon, whose vast fortune and crumbling old estate no one really wants.
They are perfectly happy the way they are.
We meet Laura Morland and her incorrigible son Tony again, and I hope I will meet The Brandons again.
3.5 stars
It's such a pleasure to read an author who sees the foolishness in people but still manages to like them.The Brandons is a typically well-done Thirkell novel.
(My one problem with this book is that Delia seems more like a 9-12 year old than 19.) The Brandons have neighbors and friends who move in and out of their lives, and we watch it all.
(I really like Miss Morris and I always hope she'd gets an HEA.) Thirkell's novels take place in one fictional area of England, and some characters move in and out of different novels, but basically they can be read in any order, though it's fun to get them in chronological order if you can.
Take the first sentence, for example:To many readers, Angela Thirkell is the British writer of light fiction compounded of gentle irony, grave absurdity, and urbane under-statement.
I don't really know what "urbane under-statement" means, but light fiction, gentle irony, and grave absurdity are three terms that fit this book perfectly.
Of course, Goodreads did the best it could for the actual summary, and I think it's the best anyone could do for such a floaty plot:...in The Brandons, Mrs. Thirkell chronicles the troubles Mrs. Brandon, a middle-aged widow with two grown-up children, has with her husband's rich maiden aunt, who theatens to leave her money elsewhere if she is not given the attention she feels is her due.I suppose the first twenty pages of the book are vaguely like that, only no one really wants the maiden aunt's stuffy old mansion or her money.
I'm collecting and reading Angela Thirkell's Barsetshire books as I can find them, and I think I'm addicted - they never fail to make me smile, even laugh out loud.
On the jacket of one of her used books a reviewer says she's like Austen combined with Wodehouse, another favorite of mine, and I think that's a fair comparison, although Thirkell's situations are funny where Wodehouse's are sillier and almost devolve into slapstick (mainly due to the mental deficiency of Bertie Wooster and many of his friends!) Thirkell's humor is dry to the bone, her characters are snobbish, witty, charming by turns, but never caricatures.
Thirkell may never be Austen or Trollope but she always makes me laugh and marvel at creating such a wonderful world full of interesting, silly, delightful people - delicious!
A definite step up from Summer Half -- this is another family romp from Angela Thirkell, with a few familiar characters playing bit parts, notably the irrepressible Tony Morland and his mother, Lydia Keith (my favourite character in Summer Half), and the urbane Noel Merton.
"Hurry up and get into the swan!" "We'd better," said Mr Merton to Mr Grant, "or Lydia is capable of riding all over the field after us on the cock."And so on.
She flirts captivatingly to keep herself amused, while she tries to arrange for her friends and family a life as comfortable as her own.The current crisis is the last days of invalid Aunt Sissy, who has been threatening for years to leave her manor to a distant cousin instead of her Brandon nephew and niece.
The manor is such a white elephant that the Brandons and the cousin, Hilary Grant, all hope that she won't leave it to them.
The Vicar, Mr Miller, is enchanted by Mrs Brandon, when what he really needs is a practical lady like Miss Moore, Aunt Sissy's companion.
A delightful book, funny and charming.
This means seeming oblivious to the attentions of two besotted bachelors, offering to do the "right thing" but immediately regretting what this might mean and gliding serenely through life whilst mischievously - and apparently effortlessly - arriving at the best possible solutions for everyone.
Some of the chapters are just plain funny - the vicar's foiled attempts to read his book on Donne to Lavinia are farcical!
Others reflect a gentle village life we wish still existed - but probably never did!
(Although I said the same about Pomfret Towers,the previous one I read - and I bought 2 more of her books today!)(Shelved)
A not quite middle-aged woman, Lavinia Brandon, has two more or less grown up children named Francis and Delia.
Episodes in their life include a visit to an elderly aunt who may or may not leave Francis her estate (he doesn't want it), the arrival of a hitherto-unknown sort-of relative who also may or may not inherit (and also doesn't want it), the mysterious history of said aunt's companion and the local vicar, etc.
There were, as usual for Angela Thirkell, some hilarious bits of dialogue and characterization, but I wonder if I've already found my favorite Thirkell novel and the others can't compare?

Lavinia Brandon, a beautiful widow with grown children, tries her hand at matchmaking in this delightful novel. Lavinia's young cousin, Hilary, falls victim to her charm, their Aunt Sissie tries to cause some exciterment over her will, and the village fête enlivens the residents. Old friends from previous Barsetshire novels play supporting roles, while the new characters are soon as dear as the old. As with all of Thirkell's novels, the Brandons (published in 1939) is amusing--often read-out-loud funny-- and charming, a pure pleasure to read.
I'm not sure I'll buy any other Thirkell novels: I was really struggling to get through "The Brandons". Margo Brooks sums it up best in her review below: "This silly little novel is really about nothing. The plot revolves around who among the unwilling heirs of an elderly lady will inherent her manor after her death." There are some funny satirical moments but, on the whole, nothing much really happens! Just tea parties, the vicarage fête, and everyone being nice and kind...
'I WONDER who this is from,' said Mrs Brandon, picking a letter out of the heap that lay by her plate and holding it at arm's length upside down.Lovely fun, and Mrs Brandon is a chalk-and-cheese contrast to Olive Kitterdge, who I am also reading about at this moment. One being all outside fluff and inner vacuity, the other abrasive on the outside and soft as butter on the inside.
Дотерпите до примерно середины книги (первую половину разные люди просто ходят туда-сюда и болтают, в какой-то момент это начинает раздражать, но --), потому что с середины начинаются События, и, в отличие от Wild Strawberries, тут я стопроцентно верю автору.
I thought this author would be similar to Barbara Pym - she isn't. Silly, inconsequential characters in an overly long book. I managed to get to page 170 then gave up.
(paraphrased: A: "Do we have any paper big enough to write Rubbish on?" B: "I'm sure you could find plenty of scrap paper in your desk if you really wanted to write rubbish.") THE BRANDONS centers around the charming and funny Brandon family--Mrs. Brandon, a widow who semi-unintentionally makes everyone fall in love with her, and who is semi-unintentionally funny with confused non-sequiturs and a general cheerful demeanor; Francis, the witty and gently sarcastic son; and Delia, the spirited teenaged daughter who delights in all things gory.
Meanwhile, the aunt's caretaker has a weird vendetta against the blandly nice vicar; everyone keeps trying to read to Mrs. Brandon; everyone falls in and out of love with everyone else (with the weird and strangely excellent exception of Francis); and there are lots of picnics.
I have now read everything by Angela Thirkell in the "Barsetshire series" that I can find on Kindle.David Byrne and Jerry Harrison wrote this: "Heaven is a place where nothing ever happens."That's why I enjoy these novels.
And lots of the ladies are widows.taken from www.angelathirkell.org/atbrief.htm:The Brandons (1939)In one of the last of the pre-war novels (WWII, that is), events center around the Brandons of Stories and Brandon Abbey.
The horror of Mrs. Grant, Hilary's mother, can be enjoyed because we know she cannot resist an eventual return to sunny Calabria.
True love conquers all for Hilary Grant and Delia, Mr. Miller and Miss Morris, and Noel Merton finally has his way with Mrs. Brandon.
Sort of like in most Angela Thirkell books.
Some are stock Angela Thirkell characters, like the annoying and embarrassing mother.
In The Brandons it's Mrs. Grant, who lives in Italy and talks incessantly of her friends the Calabrian peasants.
Some character in a Thirkell book is usually a writer, and in this book there are two: a parish priest and his private pupil, both in love with Mrs. Brandon and both trying to read to her from their tedious work.
Mrs. Brandon, meanwhile, is not listening.

Lavinia Brandon is a wealthy widow who still sets hearts fluttering, be they ministers or young men her grown-son's age.
Her son Francis and her daughter Delia and many of the characters are as shallow as Lavinia, making this a very difficult novel to get excited about.
Not until Miss Morris, old Aunt Sissie Brandon's secretary and companion, enters the scene does the novel gain any momentum.
The other characters realize how selfless Miss Morris is, dedicating herself to a tyrannical old lady.
Lavinia realizes she is happiest making others happy and sets out to improve MIss Morris's life.
There are several love stories in this novel.
Young love and "middle aged" love and flirting and general Barsetshire fun.
Mrs. Brandon is an attractive widow who enjoys flirtation but is not interested in marriage.
Noel Merton is a handsome barrister who visits from London.
These characters are favorites who appear in numerous other novels in the series.
I did not read these in order of printing, but when I could find them at the library, at Powell's Books or in any used bookstore.
Recently, new editions are being printed.
I hope Mrs. Thirkell's heirs are making a profit.
This was the first book I bought after my original (Jutland Cottage) drew me into the Barsetshire scene. It was described as a "favorite book" by several people in the reviews, so I tried it. It does not wear as well as many of her other novels, although it is still entertaining. It features another of Thirkell's "charming imbeciles", although this one is nowhere near as annoying as Lady Emily (who does not appear here, although her brother (?) Lord Pomfret does. The dominant love story here is among the elders, rather than the 'children', for a change.
This silly little novel is really about nothing. The plot revolves around who among the unwilling heirs of an elderly lady will inherent her manor after her death. It takes place over the course of only a week or two, and everyone involved bends over backwards not to inherent, while also maintaining decorum. The strength of the novel revolves around these relationships and the fun that people have being good to each other. It is quite sweet really and several times funny in a droll British way.
I love Angela Thirkell's novels. Set in the Barsetshire of Anthony Trollope, they evoke the same world with an erudite irony and the occasional laugh-out-loud passage. This novel (1939) includes several scenes with writers who are trying to read their works in progress out loud, with hilarious results. As a writer myself, I thought those scenes were particularly amusing. Recommended for lovers of PG Wodehouse and Anthony Trollope
