https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23603541-the-box-car-children
I Will Overinflate Star Ratings For Nostalgia If I Want To, No One Can Stop MeThe original 1924 version is structured very similarly to the better-known rewrite; it's interesting to compare the two.
The original is actually "edgier" - we never do find out what happened to the Aldens' (surnamed Cordyce here) parents in the eventual settled canon, but this version announces that their father is a drunk who died of his drinking problem.
Dang, Gertie!
No mention of the mother, but that's okay because with the way ol' Gertie was churning out the psychological damage, I expect we would've been treated to something equally horrifying...
I gave this two stars because you have to be the right age to enjoy the Box Car Children.
You do that." is one horrible phrase I remember from one of the books.) Around book ten or twelve, I picked up on the fact that Benny was the author's pet, and he, the youngest, always solved the mystery.
After other authors took over the writing, the kids were restored to being kids, and maybe the style improved--I can't remember.
Overall I don't think I would recommend The Box Car Children to any reader over age eight, and even that might be too old.
The theme is about helping your friends in family and trusting them
The Box-Car Children is a wonderful and very popular series of adventure and mystery books written by Gertrude Chandler Warner.
The series is based on four orphaned children; Henry, Jessie, Violet, and Benny, that live in an abandoned boxcar in the woods.
The doctor figures out that the children are runaways and that their grandfather is a prominent pillar in the community, but he keeps their secret and continues to help and watch over them.
The other books in the series follows the children as they encounter several adventures and solve many mysteries throughout their neighborhood.
Such a great story! I loved this book as a child and even more as an adult.
Such a great children's book.
This is one of my favorite Middle Grade books from my own childhood! My fifth grade teacher read this book aloud to our class after lunch over the course of a couple of weeks. I recently reread the book and it was just as enjoyable to me as an adult as it was way back when. Along with the Laura Ingalls Wilder 'Little House' series, this is one of my favorite Middle Grade books of all time.--------------------------------------
Re-read this with my oldest recently because it was one of my favorites growing up. It didn't stand the test of time for me, but he did immediately start telling me what he would have in his boxcar.
My teacher read this book to the class in elementary school, and I remember LOVING it. I love how descriptive it was and the story behind the book. Would definitely recommend if you are into nature and survival books.
My childhood basically, the reading not the actual adventure.
It was a ok book.
My favorite childhood book!
awesome book
How do you read these books!How do you read these books!?!?
Super fun for 4th-5th graders
In the book box car children the main charioteers are Henry he is the oldest, Jessie also known as Jess, Violet, and Benny.
In the middle of the book it turns to winter and gets to like twenty degrees in the middle of the day and at night it turns to be like five degrees, and they are living a train car and they are getting a little cold night.
Henry kinda takes the roll of there dad why they are living in the train car.
I also liked that the book had a lot of animals in it.
My love of reading started when i was young, and it gives me immense pleasure to provide books to Spread the Word Nevada, an organization that passes them on to children in the community.
Sometimes I'll find a book I remember reading when I was young and will read it again before passing it on.I don't rate these books using my normal scale, instead I give most of them three stars.
This isn't a Criticism of the book, simply my way of rating them as good for children.
This book is one of my all time favorites!!! The reason behind this fact is I love the adventure aspect of this book such as when (SPOILER ALERT!!!) This group of brothers and sisters find a old train car in the woods near a creek while, Henry tries to find a job and avoid their Grandfather... (If you like this book check out the movie to :https://www.google.com/webhp?sourceid... )
The Box Car Children is one of the first chapter books that I have ever read by my self. It is a mystery, adventure book that keeps you own your toes. I believe that this is moving book that will have students learn to love to read. It has been one of my favorite books of all time. I really think that the vocabulary in this book is great way for students learn how to read and understand their reading.
The Box-Car ChildrenGertrude Chandler Warner
Awesome old timey book !!! Must read this like about now
This book is about four orphan children. I found these children to be creative in their survival abilities.
Lifetime favoriteYou are never too old to read this old adorable book! I still just love it. My teacher read it to us in 2nd grade!
*
The first big chapter book I ever read. It stands the test of time. From this I moved on to Nancy Drew, the Bobsey Twins, Cherry Ames, Betsy -Tacy -Tib and the entire contents of the library.
i love that they have to live in the willderness and are sucsessful with it
