https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7074000-happy-ever-after
PARKER IS AMAZING AT EVERYTHING.Malcolm is very attractive, in the way you envisioned a man being attractive when you were 14 years old.
The reader doesn't care.The reasons I think this book was ghost-written: The characters all speak in the exact same voice.
The four main women have been best friends for 30 years, and I swear to dog if it weren't for describing clothes and pastries to each other the book wouldn't pass the Bechdel test.
The only reason I can come up with for this book not being ghost-written is, why would she bother?
And, NO, I'm not imagining it as better than it was because my expectations were so low by this point.
I'm sure anyone would like it if they read it..
with low expectations.
But, it won't be good unless you've read the first three, so I would say that you just have to take my word for it.
This book was definitely okay.We have the last girl in the squad finally getting her man in this book.
She gets the bad boy.
"It's hard to resist a bad boy who's a good man.
There was a monkey on my back and now it's gone.
Fuck you, monkey!
Despite it didn't quite meet my high expectations (the sparkage between Mal and Parker in the previous books somehow mellowed down), I still loved it from beginning to end.
What bothered me the most was Mal. Where did the rather sensible guy from the end of Savor the Moment go?
Sure, it was completely in character with both Mal and Parker, but I truly expected more oomph.
Still, this was an amazing book with great mixture of romance and friendship, I loved the familial feel of the entire series, but this was truly topped it off with everyone nicely paired up.
Foi com algum esforço que li este livro mas na verdade nunca gostei muito da Parker e embora adore personagens totalmente diferentes, não consegui gostar deste casal por culpa de como a Parker sempre se mostrou nos outros livros: muito fria e sempre com tudo no controlo.
O Mal revelou-se uma boa surpresa e realmente não podia ser mais diferente do que a Parker, par além de mecânico é duplo de actores em filmes de acção!O que mais gostei foi de o Malcom não hesitar em deixar a Parker pouco à vontade tanto com os seus elogios como com os beijos que roubava-lhe,É aqui neste livro que também temos a preparação de um dos casamentos das amigas e foi um momento que foi bonito de se acompanhar especialmente por ser a empresa a tratar do casamento.
this book was so good
Happy Ever After/ The Bride Quartet is a toast to lifelong friends, to making memories, to celebrating moments, and to first and final loves.Happy Ever After is likely my favorite novel of the series.
Like the other novels in the series, the friendships, the camaraderie, the trials and triumphs of falling in love are all very inviting and appealing.
He can give her all this, as he is exactly what she needs, and vice versa, if he can trust and open up.Their journey is not a lonely one; the women of Vows, Parker's closest and bestest friends, and their men are right there supporting them.
The level of fantasy in this story reminds me of one of Baum’s “Oz” books, where filled lunchboxes grow on bushes. Parker’s home is always perfectly neat and there’s invariably a well-stocked little refrigerator wherever you go, even in her closet -- with no sign of a house staff other than the always available cook. This isn’t wedding porn, it’s organization porn.Annoyingly, I was noticing this stuff more than connecting with the story. I can’t exactly call it boring, yet I had to keep rereadin
The level of fantasy in this story reminds me of one of Baum’s  “Oz” books, where filled lunchboxes grow on bushes.
Parker’s home is always perfectly neat and there’s invariably a well-stocked little refrigerator wherever you go, even in her closet -- with no sign of a house staff other than the always available cook.
This isn’t wedding porn, it’s organization porn.Annoyingly, I was noticing this stuff more than connecting with the story.
The perfection of Parker’s life didn’t interest me.It picked up when some actual conflict arose between the couple, and I actually got a little teary at the end.
Me encantó como Nora Roberts logró concluir la historia de las cuatro amigas. La historia de amor es perfecta, y me encantaría un Malcom.5/5 ahre
The last book is the best in the series, IMO.
I laughed out loud several times and I don't recall doing that with any of the other books.
Unlike the previous book, Savor the Moment, this one wasn't bogged down with exercise and friend time.
We got to see quite a bit of Malcolm and Parker together.
This was definitely an improvement over the other books and absolutely a great way to end the series.
Who couldn't love a man who buys a woman a pair of shoes as an apology?
The man of my dreams.
This was the book I was waiting the entire series for!
And for the most part, I'm really happy with how everything progressed between Parker and Malcolm (and yeah I'm aware I misspelled his name in my status update, tho I'm not sure why there isn't an edit update option on GR, it's 2018 ffs, we should have one by now), but I'm not happy with the final part, where Malcolm realizes the depth of his feelings for Parker and he proclaims his undying love and devotion using Carter's, Del's and Jack's words.
Seems to me that Parker would've been happy with something simple, as long as it's genuine.
But yeah, otherwise totally worth the wait.
There is nothing unique or intriguing about her work, just a bunch of unoriginal characters thrown into repetitive recycled stories.
This is supposed to be one of her strongest series if I'm not mistaken and the only hit for me was Mac and Carter's book.I thought Parker would really irritate me like she did in the last 2 books but surprisingly not as much in here.
And Mal is supposed to be the 'bad boy' out of all the 4 guys.
I'm sorry to say this but this book is what gives CR books a bad rep with all the stereotypes and frou-frou dialogue.
Thank goodness there are still authors out there with this much skill.Parker finds herself unwittingly attracted to a fella who is nothing like the ideal man she'd dreamed of.
The fact that she can control so much in her life (the hyper-organized closet and the crackberry are symbolic) means that these emotions blindside her in many ways.
Roberts doesn't have any of her characters come out and say so, but I sense that Parker's loss of her parents when she was barely adult makes her feel like she is safe only when every last nitpicking detail is under her control.
#1 New York Times bestselling author Nora Roberts cordially invites you to meet childhood friends Parker, Emma, Laurel, and Mac—the founders of Vows, one of Connecticut's premier wedding planning companies.Parker Brown turned the quartet's childhood game of Wedding Day into their dream jobs.
And now she's the face of Vows—the one who meets every bride's demands; she knows how to make dreams come true...Mechanic Malcom Kavanaugh loves figuring out how things work, and Parker Brown—with her mile-long legs—is no exception.
The women have a life that I would love with my best friends, all living under one roof in a beautiful home while finding true love with gorgeous men who have kind souls, devilishly good-looking, and wealthy.
De Nora he leído dos sagas: Hotel Boonsboro y 4 Bodas. Aunque las dos son maravillosas, me quedo con 4 Bodas. Adoro a las cuatro protagonistas, mujeres fuertes, independientes, que se apoyan en cualquier situación. ¿Y que decir de los protagonistas?, son maravillosos, si tuviera que elegir, no sé con cual me quedaría.Saga ALTAMENTE recomendada. Quiero leer más cosas de Nora, pero tiene tantas sagas que no se con cuál seguir. ¡Acepto sugerencias! :)
RESEÑA COMPLETA: http://elsentirdeunlibro.blogspot.com...Espectacular.
However, now that I have, I kinda wish I had slept.For those of you who have heard about this book for the first time, allow me to recap: The Bride Quartet series by Nora Roberts revolves around four best friends who run a wedding business together.
I realize that it's not fair to compare them, as they really have nothing in common, but I just can't get over the fact that the books, no, the whole genre's idea of a happy ending is always marriage.
I don't think I have ever read a Nora Roberts book that does not end with the characters married or at least engaged.
Even Malcolm and his mom turn out to be connected to Parker's parents.I think what was missing was the presence of a choice for the women.
I guess it's anti-romance to have two soulmates; there can be only one, but still...In a different author's hands, the women might have paired off, something that got alluded to now and then by the characters in a lighthearted way, and no wonder given how close they are.
And estimate how much these weddings cost, good grief.I was disappointed that we never got to see the (unfortunately named) Seaman wedding that ran through all the books or have the plot developed where they're trying to steal the Vows staff.
If there are real people in the world like Parker, I’ve yet to meet one.
I would have enjoyed the series more if less focus was on the actual wedding planning business and more on the four couples.
In this book, we get to see Mac and Carter’s wedding at the every end and that’s it.
However there is back story involving Mal being abused by his aunt and uncle that is supposed to have been an huge point in his life, and it was barely explored.
I’d recommend this series for diehard Noraholics only.
I really like this book and here's hoping for starting the year with the romance book might insight some real life romance! LOL one can always dream! LOL The characters are really sweet and I love weddings and this one wasn't so sappy really liked it
Found myself skimming through all the wedding detail. Pages and Pages dedicated to weddings and characters I cared little about. Definitely not my favorite series by her.
Parker Brown is the mastermind behind Vows, the wedding business she runs with her three best friends.
He’s one of her brother’s more recently acquired best friends, and he knocks the cool collectedness right out of Parker.
She has a streak of sweetness in her a mile wide, though she’s capable of donning the mantle of Ice Queen when needed.
But no matter what she tries, she can’t shake Malcolm.
And she’s not sure that she wants to.I love the relationship between Malcolm and Parker.
And I love seeing how the romances from the previous three books have strengthened and grown.
I love the friendship, the "bromance" with the men, and especially all the wedding talk!
LOVE IT!That being said, there just wasn't enough Parker and Malcolm in this story.
I liked Parker and wanted to see her loose her cool facade and fall in love.
He doesn't need to change or be a better man to win Parker.
It's an admirable thing about a person.Parker, too, is who she is.
They make a wonderful couple, I just didn't read enough about how they got there.If you've enjoyed the others in this series, you'll like this one too.
Luego del libro de Lauren, y lo que pasó en la casa de la playa, morí de ganas de tener este libro, fui, me lo compré, y estoy un poquitín arrepentida.Mis libros favoritos siempre serán los de Mac y Lauren <3 Parker quiere controlar la relación, todo el tiempo, exige mucho, es bastante pesada, densa, no entiende cosas e incomoda un poco, no me gustó como se iba a volviendo hacia el final, ya luego me dio igual todo.Malcolm es bastante lindo y mucho sexi <3 No entiendo que quiera a Parker, está loca, pero creo que es eso lo que lo enamora(?El final me pareció forzado, no hay necesidad de propuestas de matrimonio, menos si se inspira en una boda, fuera de lugar, yes, yes U__U

I absolutely loved it. Mal was my kind of guy. I loved how he pushed Parker and confused the heck out of her. They were the perfect match. I'm glad NR closed it off the way that she did. The gift that Mal gave to Parker was perfect. Of course a gal like me would appreciate it.
This book focuses on Parker and of course so called bad boy Malcolm otherwise known as "Mal. Just call them Laura and Michael.
Mal and Parker have been circling around each other for four books and it's very obvious they are going to get together.
I maybe laughed a few times (not out of delight).The book ended with a whimper.
I did like how the weddings were spaced apart and not together, and Mac and Carter have been planning their day through three books now.
This was fun and I liked it but as expected it didn't surpass my enjoyment of book 3, which remains my favourite.
As a whole, I do get why people recommend these books when it comes to Nora Roberts' work because they are pure wish fulfillment and as such I did like them a lot, but I didn't love them.
The banter between the 4 women was always excellent, though, and I liked their dynamic enough that it never bothered me when it took attention away from the main couple of the book.
PORTUGUESE EDITION/PORTUGUESE REVIEWFinalmente chegou a vez da controlada, organizada e por que não dizer, manda-chuva, Parker Brown.Parker era a dona da mansão onde funciona a famosa Casa de Cerimonial Votos - que herdou com o irmão por ocasião da morte de seus pais.Ela idealizou o projeto da empresa incluindo as três amigas no empreendimento.Vindo de uma família muito rica e importante na cidade, ela teria tudo para ser mais uma Patricinha e viver dos louros recebidos, mas não.
I remember wanting for that to be my life full of friends and love and magical weddings.
I will read her books for the rest of my life and still never know how, for me, she manages to infuse romance and magic in each of her books.
On the day that a new Nora Roberts book comes out, I purchase it at my local bookstore, crack open a bottle of red wine, and read it cover-to-cover.
:)Let the countdown begin to July 7, 2011, when the next Nora Roberts novel is released!
We’ve followed Mac, Emma and Laurel as they met and fell for the loves of their lives, and now it’s Parker’s turn.I love Parker.
Simple lines like Parker saying “I like sex” just shows how perfect he is for her.As in the other books, my most favorite part of Happy Ever After is the interaction between the characters and their friendship.
It’s a simple love story with characters that capture you from book one and that you really want to see happy.
It’s a happy, sugar-sweet read, and sometimes that’s just what you need.I actually cried when I was finished this book.
