https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122311.Dancing_at_the_Rascal_Fair
I give up. I have written two reviews for this and both I have trashed. I cannot do the book justice. The lines are wonderful. The writing is not brash, but subtle. The relationships are beautifully portrayed. The book is about friendship and love. Love isn't always returned. How do you live with that? Does love then die? Can you love another? And what happens every time you meet up with that person who does not return your love? Excellent historical fiction. A time and a place become real - something you live, not just something you read about.
Ivan Doig belongs to that rare class of alchemists who can turn language into music.
Readers who love Norman MacLean (A River Runs Through It) and Wallace Stegner (Angle of Repose, Crossing to Safety) will appreciate Ivan Doig. In the voice of a young Scottish immigrant to Montana, he writes a novel about making a life. Acts of God and very human choices intersect against a backdrop of homesteading, sheepherding, the newly-created National Forest Service, World War I, influenza, and always the manic and skulking weather. Doig spins a tale that is not easy or light but very beautiful.
What I liked about this novel:-- The sense of time and place: Montana homesteading in the late 1800'
I got bogged down a little halfway through, but I continued because the narrator, Robert Ian Mckenzie was terrific.
I kept thinking I'd never finish the book if I had to read it, and was almost gleeful when there were only 2 cds (of 17) left and the end was in sight!
Whistling Season is much better, and you'll like the ending, but this not one.
The story drags; I wanted to slap the 2 main characters upside the head; and there is precious little humor in it.
I was exhausted and relieved when the narrative ended.
Possibly well written, but I'm afraid I was so distracted by the self-involved narrator ("protagonist") and the object of his unrequited love. I have no patience for people/characters whose self-absorption & selfishness causes real unhappiness in those around them. I was utterly disgusted with the main character by the end of the book.So, to be fair, I honestly couldn't tell you if the book itself was good or not. :-) I know others who really loved this book. But I also know of three other close friends who hated the book for the same reason I did.
The wild Montana frontier life during this period fascinates me and completely captured my imagination in this novel.
While many may disagree that this is Doig's weakest part of the writing, I think that the relationships remind me faintly of the classical Don Quixote and Sancho Panza duo.
Rob's pragmatism like Angus's romantacism, leads to disaster.
Angus and Rob's eventual falling out led to a life ending in years of enmity towards one another.
However, the premise that the enmity was naturally related to Angus's misplaced love might be too much for even me (a man always seeing Quixote in every novel).
The story revolves around two young Scotsman, Angus MCaskill and his childhood friend Rob Barclay who are about to embark on a voyage to from their town in Scotland to Montana in America.
Rob was a wheelright, and Angus worked with a teacher and was an accountant and also helped the teacher so they have skills and some money.Doig's lyrical style is full of good humor, and wonderful description of the Ocean voyage the journey across country and their somewhat shocked and confused impressions when they finally get to the town where they find Lucas.
This is the second in a trilogy. I liked it but did not love it. Let's see how the third one pans out.
In the book "Dancing at The Rascal Fair" Ivan Doig describes a wonderful story of perceverience, adventure, exploration and love. This story is about two Scottish friends who travel to America to give life over here a shot. It takes place in 1889, the year Montana became a state. They come over on a rough voyage on a ship and they become shepards in a dry land farming section of Montana called Grovant. I encourage all y'all to read this great book. Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
Long historical novels about immigrant life in the US around the turn of the 20th century are very low on my list of must-reads, and so I would never have picked this up had it not been selected for my book club.
What I did not expect is that the writing would suck me in from the earliest pages, and that the page-turner plotting would keep me interested until the end.The trick is, that despite the incredible amount of archival research that must have gone into creating this tale of Scottish immigrants to the upper northwest of Montana in the 1890s, the book is really good ole' soap opera.
Four and a half stars for a Montana homesteading saga that takes us through three generations of two intertwined families in beautiful Two Medicine country. It 's a long and sprawling story, written in Ivan Doig's rich, descriptively unique voice. It's a slowly told tale--Doig takes his time, and repeats his themes and points. In order to enjoy the book, you have to decide, early on, that you want to hear every colorful detail, that you're in it for the long haul. If you can do that, it's a rewarding experience.
Not everyone will like this -- the language is very rich, and the themes of turn of the century Montana settlement near the Two Medicine may get a bit redundant as we wind through the final third of the book, but I loved it -- the struggles with family, with women, with sheep, with all that new coming over the horizon, and what is possibly my favorite term since finding it in a later Doig work, those first Park Arrangers.
Well, somebody had to arrange the national forest, didn't they?
It took me more than 6 months to read this book. I could only read a couple pages at a time. It is so wordy and slow moving but I was determined to finish it and hopefully find out what my friend found so compelling about Ivan Doig's writing. She loves Montana. That wasn't enough for me. The relationships of families, friends, and neighbors were quite real--all except the pining of the main character for another man's wife. If that was supposed to give the book spice, it failed miserably.
The characters are vividly alive and the setting is realistic.
Is his lifelong obsession realistic?
This is the second in Doig's three-book series, Two Medicine Country, but I wish that I'd read it first (or at least soon after I'd read the first book).
In the middle of the book (p 241), the national forests are established, and the new ranger has to address the angry and frustrated ranchmen.
And they always said that when they'd used the country up, they'd just move on.
And that's all the Forest Service is saying with this Two Medicine National Forest.
I love Ivan Doig's books, his prose is so beautiful, and this book is no exception.
It involves two young Scottish men who emigrate to Montana in the 1800s, and their lives thereafter, which are intertwined as business partners in sheepherding, and the narrator's marriage to the man's sister.
But it also is very sad, showing the hardships the pioneers had to endure in the terrible Montana winters, the loss of animals, the difficulties of sheepherding, and an additional story of unrequited love.
A very interesting book, but because of the sadness it is not really that enjoyable a story, but for lovers of Doig's books it is invaluable.
This novel was so frustrating. I love Mr. Doig's style of writing and the first third of this novel was riveting. Then, Angus McCaskill doesn't get to marry the woman he loves. He spends the rest of the novel whining and pining for the woman he can't have rather than focusing on the wonderful wife he is married to. It's so irritating and completely ruined the rest of the novel. Skip this one and read 'The Whistling Season' instead.
Doig's words paint a beautiful description of the prairies and mountains, so vivid that they easily matched the photos of the Badger-Two Medicine portion of the Lewis and Clark National Forest that I found on-line while immersed in the story.
The central characters of Scottish immigrants, Angus and Rob, were well defined and their story of traversing the land and their decades-long brotherly friendship was continually captivating.
This next book continues the story of Angus's son, Varick, beginning in 1939.
That the author, born in that same year, is the grandson of Montana homesteaders clearly informs the narrative and the lines seeps authenticity.
This is a dense book and one that should be savoured, but I devoured it page after page.Comparing it to two other five star books that I have read in the last few years, Cold Mountain and Brown Girl Dreaming, I loved Dancing at the Rascal Fair for absorbing me completely into another world and connecting me with my ancestral past.
I felt a "sense of place" in each of these books, a link to my southern ancestors in Cold Mountain and Brown Girl Dreaming, and a link to my Scottish-Canadian ancestors in Dancing at the Rascal Fair.I can see why people are passionate about Ivan Doig, many declaring him their favorite writer.
The book begins with a pair of young Scots immigrating to Montana in the 1880s.
It follows their lives as they claim prime homestead land and sees them through the hardships, of which there are many, and the triumphs of which there are also quite a few.
They live to see their beloved Montana filling up with a population and civilizing influences.
As a person, myself, who spent a summer working and living with a Montana homesteader couple, I can say that this book is almost as good as the real thing.
3.5 starsRob Barclay and Angus McCaskill leave Scotland for Montana, where Rob’s uncle Lucas is “a miner.” But what they don’t know is that Lucas’s mine, aptly named the Great Maybe, is no more.
His love for fellow schoolteacher Anna Ramsey is a central theme, although Anna breaks his heart and Angus eventually marries Rob’s younger sister Adair.
There is some absolutely beautiful writing, and Doig gives us all the emotions of life – laughter, love, grief, despair, anger, jealousy, and happiness.
I know that my husband would like this book.
I think that my brother might appreciate it as well.
Except for the protagonist, the characters did not dance off the page.
The character Adair is less remote but her level of self abnegation is a puzzlement, largely because the author seemed to portray it as a strength.
Still, the novel does have its charms.
Doig provides male characters that are much more intricately developed than his female characters and his exploration of the relationship between Rob and Angus is compelling (even though in the culminating scene, I had greater sadness for the demise of the horse--I'll bet others did, too).
Are these charms enough to induce me to read the sequel?
It is a powerful story, convincingly told from Angus's point of view - the sense of loss and heartbreak felt very real.Doig stated that he used some Robert Burns quotes and others he created himself.
I'd rather like to read it myself!As a Scots immigrant myself who has traveled around the western part of Montana through Browning and down across the endless rich, grassy rolling hills of the Blackfeet Reservation, I felt immersed in the story from the beginning in an oddly vicarious way.I had previously read "Mountain Time" and enjoyed Doig's writing ability, but this book was outstanding.And yes, that is August snow on the Beartooth Parkway in my Goodreads profile pic.
Wow.Often a book becomes a classic, or wins renown because it excels at something - the characters.
The word choice and use of language.
Use of point of view, perspective, and time...
Dancing at the Rascal Fair exceled in all of these, and more.
From the sentence lengths and the choice of words all the way up to the presence of big themes in the book...
Perfect voice, excellent delivery, just excellent.This book transported me to a time and place as completely as For Whom the Bell Tolls did (although it was a much nicer place to be, and I got to spend 20 years there instead of 3 days).I am certain this is a story I will revisit.
About half way through the book it finally enveloped me and I really enjoyed it.
Around the late 1800's two friends emigrated from Scotland to northern Montana where there was an abundance of wide open land for homesteading.
It certainly made me appreciate the trip I once took to Glacier National Park (magnificent)which used to be the grazing land for the homesteaders sheep and cattle.
I also have a better appreciation for the Forest Service and how they protect the land from being "chewed up".
But there is always two sides to every story and this book tells it well.
I didn't realize when I bought this that it was the same author as "The whistling season".
This was so much better.
I'm not big on "westerns", but the struggle of immigrants is a story all Americans but the natives have in their past and I felt a kinship with these characters.
There was some beauty in the writing, in the passions and feelings of its people.
There were some interesting ideas in here.
Some people keep feelings for years: Love, and Hate --and they influence everything in their lives.
These are some stubborn people.
Just plain story well told.
One of the best told sagas of male relationships that I've read.
I learned a lot about Montana's immigrant history - hadn't known about the Scottish sheepherders.
So appreciate Doig's knowledge and grasp of history and how he describes the difficult and physical extreme of their livelihood.
I'm a sucker for great western landscape books, meaning those that "get" the feeling, the sense of its vastness, harshness, and can convey it in a way that hits me deep down.
I've pawned it on various people over the years and noone has appreciated in the way I did.

This is the reason I hate to choose a "favorite" book: because ones that are near and dear to my heart are inevitably left out!
This was my first Ivan Doig read, but certainly not my last.
This is not a book of happy-ever-afters, but of heartbreaks that shape the soul for better or worse.
You know how sometimes you watch those movies that make you cry, and yet you love them?
This is that movie, in book form.
I also discovered parts of the country and history that I hadn't read about before, which I always love.
I believe Ivan Doig studied with Wallace Stegner.
In any case, his books have a similar flavor.This is dense, but enjoyable reading.
Doig is a wordsmith.
By the end of the book, you feel you know the characters--almost too well.This first book chronicles two young men who cross the pond and end up in northern Montana in the 1890s, ultimately becoming sheep herders.
The book chronicles their lives--work and relationships.
It is a haunting love story.As an aside, to an Arizona boy, Montana winters sound cold and dark.
But I read this over spring break in Florida, so it was ok.
