https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11286.Carrion_Comfort
I just love Dan Simmons!! Mel 🖤🐾🐺
What makes it different from almost all other vampire ficton is his approach to the subject.Carrion Comfort is concerned with mind vampires, people who can enter the consciousness of any person and control their actions completely, like a puppeteer.
Simmons presents a scene that truly is horrifying and memorable in its intensity and eeriness.However, aside from the general premise and the few WW2 portions, Carrion Comfort is surprisingly short on the horror factor; most of the novel reads like a 80's thriller, complete with black helicopters, secret agents, explosives and multiple shoot outs, which occupy most of its pages.
Exhibit C in "Authors Who Doodle"... In case you're interested, here's exhibit A and exhibit B.Carrion Comfort, Dan Simmons second novel, can be faulted for being overly long, needlessly complex and in dire need of a talented editor. Yet after I've said all that, it still remains one of the best horror novels of the second half of the 2oth century. The author has created a tense tale of mind control and the extremes of human corruption and power. While Simmons uses the term "Mind Vampires" for h
In case you're interested, here's exhibit A and exhibit B.Carrion Comfort, Dan Simmons second novel, can be faulted for being overly long, needlessly complex and in dire need of a talented editor.
The author's other strength in this 800 page novel is the development of strong protagonists and villains.
Simmons sets a stage of believability by referencing a number of horrific events such as the Kennedy and Lennon assassinations and weaves a network of conspiracies and chess moves, the latter being a tantalizing motif throughout, that pulls this story way beyond the normal horror novel.
As in Full-Blown Epic-Length rambling and character-development-through-action for almost 900 pages, with a nearly uncountable number of reversals, sad deaths, and improbable successes?Then this novel is for you.Honestly, I never had any issues with anything in particular.
If you want a very long and interesting ride, a near perfect diversion with lots of sex, horror, and a cast of baddies with zero moral fortitude and the undercurrent that they *might* get what's coming to them, then I really recommend this novel.
Long books often make it difficult for the author to maintain suspense without the story dragging (I'm totally looking at you Stephen King) but I found that Simmons managed to maintain a fairly consistent level of suspense.
Yes, I will never look at chess the same way again.Much of the suspense of the story is in how it develops so I don't want to give a synopsis.
A truly fantastic book and now I want to read anything Simmons has written.EDIT: I'm increasing the rating to 5 stars.
Sometimes I didn't even want to know where this story was going.
Natalie and Saul are so fleshed out, they feel like real people and you are genuinely invested in their lives which makes what happens to them so hard.
I love Rob. A true hero.
But this story would be nothing without the anti heroes-the enemies-the villains.
No other villains in any other book are as merciless, self serving, cruel or disgusting than the soul sucking Users inCarrion Comfort.
Mainly I got tired of my sensitivities being offended which probably wouldn't have happened if this were a shorter book.
Esos libros que no te puedes quitar de la cabeza y no ves la hora de tener un tiempo para continuar la lectura.
La línea de tiempo que se usa para presentar la trama también es muy atractiva ya que no es precisamente lineal; cada poco se devuelve en uno o dos días para explicar algún acontecimiento, por supuesto desde la perspectiva de otro personaje.
the novel and several of the characters are obsessed with chess, which makes for some intriguing action.
besides being an intriguing tool for the narrative, i think that this character is the novel's chief strength: a very ironic portrait of a vicious, racist, murderous, insanely self-absorbed, semi-senile southern belle - but one who also manages to be somewhat sympathetic and surprisingly funny.
but not just any bitch - a mind-controlling bitch who will get you and all of your loved ones if you stand in her way!
just imagine if prudish, semi-senile southern belles were in control of your mind and body...shudder.
CARRION COMFORT is just an incredible concept for a story (mind vampires) and how these characters interact and evolve throughout the book. A thrilling plot and intriguing locales keep the reader guessing until the end. BRAVO once again, Dan Simmons!!
I find myself questioning whether or not I think a book is going on too long, I ask: Was I ever bored for extended periods of time?
You can have a long book with lulls, but the action should kick back in right around the time your average reader will start skimming.
(In a perfect world, a reader will never feel like skimming, but we all know that even the best novels can have unneeded information) This, in the realm of fiction, is called pacing.
I feel comfortable saying this book is way too long based on the content received.
my list of 3 best vampire novels of 20 century:richard matheson's I AM LEGEND is the first, of coursesk's 'salem's lot and this bookperhaps i can add "interview with the vampire" onto it as well, but it's not horror to me :)
I say all this not to criticize the book (as you can see, I rated it 5 stars) but to explain why it took forever to read it.I almost dropped a star because there is some extraneous material here that could have been excised and the mind-blowing story would not have suffered, but I savored every one of the words, so I feel that would be wrong.This was my first Dan Simmons book and I had no real idea what to expect.
That was interesting, and Melanie's scenes damn near steal the book.This one gets a big well deseved 5 from me.I will be reading more Simmons for sure.
One glance of the wear on the spine of my copy of Carrion Comfort would be enough to tell this is a must read.
In fact, I would upload a picture of it but yet another of my friends is currently reading it.
One of my friends read it three times and another wants it back again.It's a toss-up between this novel and Silence of the Lambs as my favorite novel of all time.It's huge, over 900 pages, and dates back from Nazi Germany to present day.
Read it!!
"Saul shivered. Behind the calm voice and the human puppet was a man who had directly murdered scores - perhaps thousands - of human beings."   The epic scope of The Eight.The gut clenching agony of Schindler’s List.The paranormal malevolence of Stephen King.Oh my friends, this was something special. An absolute Must Read for the Horror Fan. I will remember it always... and shudder. "Winter is coming. And I am very, very hungry."
Carrion Comfort is a mess of a book.
Carrion Comfort's story is complex, and involves several parties.
His story from the past to the present was so intriguing, and his time in WWII in the concentration camps was probably my favorite part of the entire novel.
She was entertaining, and I felt like I could hear her voice in my head when her story was being read.
Third, there were a few instances where I was wondering, "How did we get there from where we were?" It kind of felt like an action was missing...That's kind of a minor thing.
4.5 stars. Dan Simmons can write a great book no matter what genre he is writing in. His Hyperion Cantos is on my list of "All Time Favorite" science fiction series and now he has written one of the best Vampire novels ever. Original, scary and brilliant......and LOOOOONG Winner: Bram Stoker Award for Best Horror Novel (1990)Winner: Locus Award for Best Horror Novel (1990)Winner: British Fantasy Award for Best Novel (1990)Nominee: World Fantasy Award for Best Novel (1990)
clearly, Ja?I must say; after reading this book, I am completely disheveled in appearance and spent.
This book wore me out to say the least.
I don't want to give away anything and provide spoilers; for fear that 'someone' may find this out and complete a mind-game on me.
This book is about mind-control; vampirism that not only takes your life essence, but your very soul.
It is about having complete power over individuals, maybe; entire cities/communities; maybe, the entire world, most definitely.
Hyperion gets a lot of love but I seldom see any mention of this amazing book.
It is very different from Hyperion but that is not unusual for Simmons as he is a very versatile writer.
Carrion Comfort is sf/horror of the highest calibre, something Stephen King may write when he is on top form (but with better prose).
This book is about people with mind control abilities of different strengths.
A lot of riveting plot is generated from this simple premise.
I won't go onto any details, I'll just recommend that you do not miss this book even if you don't normally read horror.
I was seriously disappointed by it but at the same time, I did really enjoy some parts.
I think my disappointment stems from the fact that I’ve read over and over how scary this book is and I didn’t even find myself remotely scared.
Sure some parts were pretty brutal and the actions of many characters were truly despicable but I just didn’t feel any fear when reading this.
I did think the ending was great, and gave me tingles, I wish the whole book would have felt that way!
My edition was nearly 800 pages with a teeny tiny font...I'm no stranger to big books, I am a King fan after all, but this one felt particularly long.
The premise that these individuals could control your mind and actions from a distance away is just...terrifying.
I especially don't really enjoy "action" scenes where people are just running around for ages and hiding in different locations - this kind of thing is great for the big screen, but can be hard to follow when reading.It's a complicated book to rate because some parts were 5 stars and some parts felt more like 3 stars...therefore I think an average of 4 stars is best!
This book should come with a warning label, although that might ruin its amazing cover.
Oh and they all have the power of mind control.
Having seen and experienced their evil firsthand, our trio bands together to fight it..I loved this book, as sick as it is.
I gave it 4 stars because it could definitely have been edited down (I don't need to read about people chasing after rogue cherry tomatoes with their forks while eating a salad), I was exhausted after a 150-200 page epic fight/showdown in the middle, and the constant racial and sexual slurs did wear me down.
This hardcover is numbered 422 of 550 and is signed Dan Simmons, Kathleen McNeil Sherman (illustrator).
I think this book, while a good read with some fantastic, scary parts in it, could have used a tad more editing.
But no one, not even Willi IMO, comes close to the monstrosity of the old lady Melanie.
The ease at which she ruins lives and Uses people is unsettling.
The most chilling scenes for me were of Willi's younger years as a Nazi, and his dabbles into the lives of concentration camp prisoners.
That human chess game was horrifying.This is a book I had heard about many times and I'm glad I finally read it.
The first 400 pages really captivated me, then I lost focus in the next 200. This is a wonderful book that may have been a victim of my ADD. After a year without picking it up again, I'm getting this one off my "currently reading" list.
It was a relief turning that last page.
This is the third novel by Dan Simmons I have read , it is my least favorite.
For me, it could have lost about 250 pages.
While reading I was engaged in the story, I am not sure if I ever really came to care for any of the characters...
I get to show how inhuman our monsters were..but I could have lived my life not reading some of it.
Personally I would recommend The Terror if you are considering checking out Mr. Simmons.
Carrion Comfort is a run-away helicopter bolted precariously to a run-away train heading for a narrow cliff that stands above a valley of molten lava.
This thing is fast-paced.I enjoyed the mix of, and choice of, perspectives.
My opinion of at least one character shifted rather dramatically at some point and it was only a function of the chosen perspective, which is nice.
I'm a sucker for evil in that indifference-to-human-life kind of way so I was already hooked pretty early.
Willi is an excellent character, in any time period.
He has that likeability that is required for true evil.
Imagine having the power to know people's thoughts, weaknesses, and secrets, and at the same time be able to make them do what you want them to do - without limit.
Imagine also being used and manipulated physically and mentally - and not be able to do anything about it all.This is the horror of Carrion Comfort.An old novel published in 1980, Carrion Comfort is one of Simmons' few horror novels.
And it is with these unique monsters - along with a few normal humans who pitch their resources, time and life to fight them - that the novel unfolds a rather thought-provoking story.
I'd be curious as to whether the end-game depicted in the book is considered well played by serious chess players.One of the protagonists is Jewish and has a tattoo on his arm...this can be a cheap trick by an author in order to gain immediate sympathy and moral authority for the character but in this case such accusations would be false; this book is essentially about the Holocaust and what caused it; that most important of questions, what would you have done?
One of the things that I loved the most was the mystery/suspense aspect of the book.
I was so very consumed by it.The descriptions of characters and their lives coupled with the ‘extreme’ moments, really added to the surrealism of the novel.
Also I love how involved all the characters are in the novel.
That his name, Saul Laski, should be written into the history books.As the story unfolded I loved how so much more of Saul’s history is revealed.
One question in the book is "Is he here for justice or revenge?" As I further read, they seemed to be one and the same.Natalie, is another of my favorite characters.
"Лешояди" на Дан Симънс е поредният ми сблъсък за последните две години (след "Илион", "Олимп" и "Петата купа") с многоликия автор.
И ако у нас Симънс е известен предимно с по- (научно) фантастичните си творби, по света той е също така признат майстор на литературата на ужаса, завоювал купчина награди.Представете си, че има хора, които могат да "обладават" съзнанията на обикновените човешки същества и да ги "програмират" за свои цели.
Осъзнавам, че тази книга наред с "Абарат" на Клайв Баркър и "Момчешки живот" на Робърт МакКамън ще влезе в топ 5 на читателската ми 2016 :)И да, обичайните заподозрени са замесени в излизането на "Лешояди" на български.
