https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50843.Red_Planet
This was, hands down, my favorite Heinlein book as a teen.
I read it at least 4 or 5 times.
I really need to read it again as an adult, but Heinlein ...
Though this is one of his early juvie novels, so it's safer than, say, Time Enough for Love.Two teenage boys, sent away to boarding school in the big city on Mars, need to save their hometown and their Martian friend from the nefarious forces of evil.
But no matter what, I will always adore Willis the Martian with my entire heart and soul.Sing ¿Quién es la Señorita?
one more time, Willis!
At one point the school decided to take away the pupils' guns.
It looks like the generation that just came back from the WWII thought it was perfectly normal to expect the teenagers to act like responsible adults; this among other things includes not expecting them to start shooting everybody in sight with the aforementioned guns.
He did not hide his views in his fiction, but almost always managed to stop right before he start preaching (in earlier works at least); just read this book as an example.
The beginning starts slow, there's a bit of an adventure on Mars that heightens things for a while, but then the book grinds down to a finish with a trial and dithering.
This is one of Heinlein's early works.
Nor can I see women of any age and time being enamored of a book that lumps them all together as "women folk" who are portrayed as useless.
Heinlein also set his language and portrayal of his character in a future world as if they were 1940s Midwesterners.
It's cool to see the beginning writer working through his craft and glimmers of what's to occasionally shine through here.
Another Heinlein juvenile, another curious blend of work by a virtuoso visionary and his unfortunate co-author the cheating hack.THE GOOD: Heinlein's early treatment of his Martians (the ones used nearly two decades later in STRANGER IN A STRANGE LAND) is excellent.
These guys are subtle and weird and so far beyond earth norms that every interaction with them is fraught and puzzling.
Also, the treatment of gender is blindingly awful, even for 1948, especially for Heinlein.
You'd think a guy who could write something as mind-bendingly weird as Heinlein's Martians could apply some of that mental plasticity to an examination of the women of his own species.
One of Heinlein's early YA books, it's about 2 young boys who wind up on an adventure on Mars.
Heinlien's young heroes are boy scouts, good kids with good intentions who buck the odds to do the right thing.
I'd recommend it for any adult, but also for any young boy, maybe 3d grade reading level & up.
(I'm probably wrong about 3d grade, get another opinion.) The language & ideas are pretty simple, but equally engaging for young & old.
There is a moral to the story; be brave, resourceful and - damn the consequences - do the RIGHT thing.
1976 grade B+1992 grade B+2016 grade B+A novel about high school students in a private school run by dictatorial earth bureaucrats on a colonized hypothetical Mars.
The book could definitely be considered a precursor to Stranger In A Strange Land since it has the exact same martians and their culture.
In fact this book describes them much better and I recommend reading it before Stranger if possible.
The book also includes many of the Earth/Mars political relations that are further developed in The Moon Is A Harsh Mistress, although there is no direct connection between the two stories.
The bad science doesn't bother me too much, but I can't get past the sexism and the contrived conflict. None of the bad guys had any competence? The good guys were automatically superior strategists, warriors, leaders, etc.? I'd give it one star, but the Martians were interesting, and treated with respect.
Willis overhears the two discuss a devious plan to stop the traditional human migration to warmer climes during the harsh Martian winter, Jim and Frank run off from school and skate along the canals, back to their home colony to tell Jim’s father.The result is a fight between the adults for the independence of Mars and a showdown between the original Martian inhabitants and the human colonists, the result of which seems to depend upon Jim and Willis.In many ways the format of Red Planet is similar to Space Cadet, in that we have alien/human conflict and a hero figure in a rite of passage Bildungsroman, but instead of being in space and on Venus (as we were in Space Cadet) here we are firmly on frontier Mars.What surprises me most on re-reading is how complex this book really is behind the obvious plot narrative.
3.8 stars“Oh my gosh!”Although a conservative, staid, and constrictive tradition lies behind the 1950s, U.S. pop culture, an odd and innocent sense of fun seems to accompany it.“Gee!”After my immersion into Shirley Jackson’s dark and menacing world, Heinlein’s Red Planet, (1949), with this conservative yet fun 1950s aspect, became just the tonic I needed.Setting a young adult/adult, science fiction adventure novel on Mars allows Heinlein to create an exciting story and world while simultaneously exploring ignorance and intelligence, arrogance and humility, materialism and faith, and surprisingly, gender!Within the hero-villain adventure story plotline, the author sets these variously explored layers amidst an American Revolution-type frame.
This is one of the earlier Heinleins so perhaps the sexism wasn't so obvious back then. However, it is quite blatant. There is some racism as well. Although I remembered the story fondly, I found on rereading that it is far from being one of his better stories. About the only positive part was that the character of Willis is really well developed and cute. Not recommended. Trying to decide what to do with the book since it is a first edition but not in great shape. I might donate to County library branch I've been using.
I listened to this as an audio book. I’m a life long SF aficionado, but I forgot how good Heinlein could be when he was in top form. He coaxes the reader into suspending disbelief on the first few pages and his imaginary Mars works in the same way Shakespeare’s Denmark does. This is a YA book, so so don’t look for deep meaning or character development. Heinlein does toy with his libertarian notions a bit, but not so as to offend my liberal sensibilities. The aliens are truly alien, and the humans are truly human.
Although this is a so-called "juvenile" novel(i.e., "young adult" tale), it's quite well constructed. I was especially enchanted by Heinlein's depiction of the Martians. There's a clear connection between the Martians in "Red Planet" and the Martians described in Heinlein's later novel, "Stranger in a Strange Land." What Heinlein lacks in style and descriptive powers, he makes up for with a tight plot, suspenseful action, and the mysterious, awe-inspiring Martians. "Red Planet" would make a great movie, but as far as I know, nobody has ever attempted it.
One of the first science fiction books I read...thanks Dad. I've been hooked for over 30 years now.
All of you who have immersed themselves in the Kim Stanley Robinson Red Mars trilogy should invest a little time in reading this one.
Robinson made supreme use of current scientific knowledge in putting together a real hard SF tale about our planetary neighbor.Now picture someone in 1949 (Heinlein) trying to do the same thing with the limited knowledge available at the time.
But I found myself wondering how serious Heinlein had been in trying to be true to the theories extant at the time.
Obvious things are obvious.
But then Robinson also extrapolated and delved deeply into politics.
His constant companion is a bouncing "martian roundhead" who can precisely record and repeat any sound.There are plenty of scientific innaccuracies, which is to be expected since the novel was written fifty years ago.
If you can get past that, it's an enjoyable if not great read.The story changes in the last third, emphasizing Jim's father as he struggles against a wicked corporation.
Republicans would probably love this novel, as it emphasizes gun ownership and a big middle finger to big government.Teenagers with lazer guns.
I'll let that sink in for a minute.Still, despite its flaws this is a well written novel that should please Sci fi purists.
A solid entry in Heinlein's novels, this is one of the ones about (and probably written more for) youth (like Podkayne of Mars, Tunnel in the Sky, and Rocket Ship Galileo).
This one takes place entirely on Mars, and involves a rebellion between some of the human colonists there and the company that runs the place.
Also, a weird Martian ball-animal that can somehow reproduce human voices perfectly and acts much like a voice recorder.Other than the alien aspects, little here is new or unusual in terms of the plot.
But the aliens are actually pretty neat, the way they are handled, and the standard plot is done well.
Once the boys get to school, the plot begins to develop and the book moves from a sci-fi narrative about life and social relations to become a standard adventure story.
In a struggle for survival they make allies with the Martian people and begin to learn more about the Martians and about Willis.The adventure progresses with Jim and the colonists in a fight for their survival and their rights.
I'd forgotten how much I love this book!
This was a no nonsense adventure story, set on the planet Mars.
Its main audience it young adult, even a little younger if they're avid readers, but it wasn't that childish after all and actually holds a few lessons.The story is fairly simple.
It's set in a distant future where colonies on Mars are actually a fact.
We follow two friends, Jim and Frank, both sixteen years old, who embark on a trip to their new school.On this trip they spend some time with the native inhabitants of the planet, the Martians.
There are other Martians involved in the story, and Heinlein builds up a world on Mars with the natives as well as the human settlers who have issues that seemed typical of some Western novels dealing with company towns.
And in the second half of the book, you see that the settlers, generally described as engineers, end up taking things into their own hands and rebelling against the company that is paying and supporting them.
This must have been heady stuff for the pre-engineering students reading this.
I’d read more like this…
Mars as was to be if there were Martians on it.
wonderful short story that brings to me the social aspects of a colony in mars and the relationship with mother earth.
who knows best how to live in Mars?
the settlers who live there all year round or the Company managers from earth who go there for small periods of some years?
I liked very much this relationship and also the creativity of Heinlein in devising such interesting Martians.
many of the interactions of Martians with humans may one day be possible...
who knows?
even today they seem too far nevertheless:).
Für ein Jugendbuch war das Kernthema doch etwas zu ernst, für einen Erwachsenenroman ist "Red Planet" mit seinen Dialogen und der Ausdrucksweise wiederum zu jugendlich.
Zweiteres könnte allerdings auch zum Teil an der Übersetzung liegen, die mir leider aufgrund einiger offensichtlicher Schlampigkeitsfehler immer wieder negativ auffiel und so einen ähnlich gehetzten Eindruck machte wie die Handlung an sich.Fazit: Natürlich muss man sich immer vor Augen führen, dass dieser Roman schon einige Jahrzehnte auf dem Buckel hat, dennoch hätte ich mir vom Meister des Genres etwas mehr erhofft.
Read with my son for an online bookclub. It is dated (sexism...) but my son really enjoyed Willis.
Fun, quick read. But man, he does not love women.
An author can't reasonably be called on the carpet for not knowing things that were not known at the time the book was written.That said, there are several things Heinlein COULD have known, and didn't.
Heinlein didn't know quite how low the atmospeheric pressure was, so he couldn't reasonably have known that it was so low that surface tension couldn't be sustained, so that water would boil away at so close to freezing temperature that it wouldn't mostly go into liquid form at all.
But it's not surprising that he was fond of the form he chose for this book and Stranger in A Strange Land.
I'm very curious to read the expanded edition Del Rey put out a few years ago that apparently restores Heinlein's full text - the ending to the original Scribner juvenile edition I read felt very cut off and undeveloped.There are a lot of points in this novel where it seems like Heinlein isn't sure who he's writing for.
I would imagine many children would lose interest at this point.
I'm told the near-omnipotent Martians also appear in Stranger in a Strange Land, though I don't know if it ties into the actual events of Red Planet at all.In the end, this novel is very good, but it doesn't feel cooked all the way, I suppose.
Benim BK anlayışımın Heinlein'ın anlayışı ile uzaktan yakından ilişkisi yok.
O yıllardaki Mars tahayyülünün gerçek Mars'la hiç bir benzerliği yok.
Heinlein geniş yapay kanallarla kutup bölgelerinden ekvator bölgelerine su taşınan bir Mars hayal ediyor.
Mars'ın yüzeyinde bitkiler, küçük vahşi hayvanlar var.
Bunlar dışında Mars'ta akıllı türler de var ...Heinlein bize hayali bir Mars yüzeyinde geçen 18.
yüzyıl Amerika toplumunu anlatıyor.Mars kolonistleri, tıpkı Amerika'yı kolonileştiren Avrupalı göçmenlere benziyorlar.Heinlein'ın dili ırkçı ve cinsiyetçi.
Dahası, Marslılar barışçı bir tür oldukları halde kolonistlerimizin (çocuklar dahil) bellerinde silahları da var.
Bu silahları kullanmaktan ve anlaşmazlık durumunda birbirlerini "mıhlamaktan" hiç çekinmiyorlar.Kısacası, 1949 yılında hayal edilen Mars gezegeni üzerinde bir western bu kitap.
While huge in size and seemingly understanding of simple technology quite pensive and secluded in their dealings with humans.The story focuses primarily on a young boy, Jim Marlowe, who has a sort of friendly custodial ownership of a perhaps intelligent martian furball which he has named Willis.
While the second half takes a decided turn for more mature material with some heavy doses of civil rights, politics, diplomacy among people of various temperaments, and philosophy revolving around interacting with beings who we may never be able to truly understand or empathize with.A nice piece of work, suitable for youths accustomed to a light glossing of violence and beyond.
I don’t remember if I actually read this book before or not, but it was still a quick read.
It’s a coming of age novel that tells of the experiences of two boys who now live on Mars in experimental communities that have to cope with the differences between Mars and their native planet Earth.
Between them, they have a friend, Willis, who is one of the native species on their new planet.
Together, with the help of Willis, they are able to overcome the rigors of this tyrannical dictator and get on with their lives.
The book is obviously aimed at what we term young adults today.
I realized my mistake after I bought it and before I listened to it, but decided to give it a whirl because Robert Heinlein is such a legendary sci-fi writer, and I'd never read anything he wrote.As for Red Planet, if you can get past a few minor things, it is a great teen sci-fi adventure read -- like a Hardy Boys go to Mars tale.
Actually, the Hardy Boys analogy works for the book's short-comings as well, as both were written in a different era, when "swell" and "fellows" were part of everyday language, and women were considered a subservient gender.
