https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/327194.Three_Little_Kittens
The three little kittens was a favourite with my children and my grandchildren.This wonderful book has enchanted children throughout the years.A wonderful classic children's book.
This is a children's book about three little kittens who got into trouble because they lost and then soiled their mittens. I found this book to be really enjoyable. I would recommend to to any younger kid because it was easy to read and a had a fun rhyme scheme throughout the story.
Always made me sad, being reprimanded without being taught.
Purr-r, purr-r, purr-r, O let us have the pie. Purr-r, purr-r, purr-r!
Great illustrations - especially the family painting of 'Admiral Purry' on the last page -I've never quite understood why cats would ever need mittens?
Classic childhood story. And yes, the kittens get spanked.
This is a cute book about kittens who lost their mittens. I would recommend for emergent readers, as the sentences are easy and have rhyming .
Fun rhymes and a good message for children. For adults a step back in time, who doesn't remember this one?
811 N. Country RodMuskogee, OK
My favorite as a child. I had two sisters, so we were the three little kittens.
Enjoyed this as a child.
The rhyme as published today however is a sophisticated piece usually attributed to American poet Eliza Lee Cabot Follen (1787-1860).
The rhyme tells of three kittens who first lose, then find and soil, their mittens.
When all is finally set to rights, the kittens receive their mother's approval and some pie.
The poem is a sophisticated production that avoids the typical moralization of 19th century children's literature in favour of anthropomorphic fantasy, satirical nonsense, and word play.
It is one of the first pieces of children's romantic literature produced for amusement and entertainment, and may be the source of the idiom "to smell a rat".
A cute story about a trio of kittens who lose, find , then soil their mittens. I remember really enjoying this book, and it was probably what started my loving of cats (aside from the fact that I always had cats growing up)and it would be nice to find this book for my shelf again as this is a wonderful story.
Cute! :D
The variety of colors in the artwork are great for practicing color naming while reading with little ones.
Early Childhood. Fiction. This book was memorable to me because my mother read it often to me, using entertaining voices.
I read this when I was a little girl, and I'm 50 now!
I'm not a fan of the relationship depicted between the mother and the little kittens.
A great childhood story.
The illustrations are lovely but the message isn't really in line with my mode of parenting. Lots of scolding of the "because-I-said-so" variety and food as a reward system.
Such a great book for the little ones!
A long time ago
My favorite book when I was a little girl lol still have it memorized!
Loved this story as a child.
I was sad when I read this book. Something about one of them didn't get milk from ma for being bad. How sad.
I am a collector of the old Golden Book Classics. I really love them. I learned how to read from them. I have had to repurchase all my favorites on eBay, because, of course, none of mine lasted.
A re-telling of the three little kittens rhyme, with sweet illustrations accompanying it.
Golden books have always been a staple and they continue to inspire new little readers.
