https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/569429.Mostly_Harmless
Tricia McMillan (Trillian , in another existence) is not happy, the British television anchor is back in England after an unsuccessful job interview, in New York City at ten times more money !
Next day, Tricia can figure out what to do with the rest of her life, then the aliens land in the back yard....Three thin, green figures come down from their small craft, Grebulons on a reconnaissance mission, would she like to visit them on Rupert (Persephone) ?
But this universe cannot let people be content, Trillian/Tricia arrives, hands him his unknown daughter Random she says, and hastily leaves, a product of his.
Adams admitted that he was having a "bad year" when he wrote this book, and it shows: the usual humor and manic pacing are largely gone, replaced by long tracts about actual theoretical science (as opposed to the lunatic-inspired science that created, say, the starship Bistromath), and the tone overall is far darker and more depressive.
There are still glimpses of Adams' comedic genius, but the book as a whole is a definite cog or two down the scale from the first four.
A reader may not want to know how the story of Arthur and his companions ultimately ends, or how any story that goes on long enough must end, but it's a blind and willful ignorance that serves no purpose but to save us seeing reality, in all its complicated and multidimensional depth of cause and effect and pure probability.Personally, I found this book to be a brilliant and thought-provoking conclusion to a sharp, touching, and gloriously honest series.
The ending of the novel, with Arthur at peace and Ford laughing wildly, is the most honest part yet.
I am unsure if I will follow the guide any further, since my American Express card was rejected through my elaborate travels.Mostly Harmless follows one Homo Sapien, Arthur Dent, on an exuberant, random, and slightly sad adventure through space, time, and multiple dimensions.
Arthur is one of the last humans in the entire universe, and all he wants to do is return home to Earth, or a place like Earth, or somewhere he fits in.
I cannot tell you if the series has any real point, besides Arthur trying to fit in somewhere.
Poor Arthur, who finally found happiness at the end of book four, has the love of his life whisked away from him senselessly and is back to wandering the galaxy alone.
But this one…let’s just say I can see how a reader would find Mostly Harmless to be mostly bleh.That said, it’s still Douglas Adams and I still liked the book.
It’s not the same caliber as the first two books in the series, but if you enjoyed the third and fourth books you’ll probably like this one.
In particular, the first four books of his 'Hitchhiker's' series have over 7 million words dedicated to them.
But the fifth book in the series has not enjoyed this level of attention.
Until recently, the Galactica article regarding this novel comprised a single word; 'pointless.'A sub-set of literature fans didn't appreciate this and launched an extensive campaign to rectify the situation.
They argued that Mostly Harmless wasn't a lazy cash-grab or evidence that Adams didn't give a crap by that point.
From thence on, the book on Mostly Harmless reads 'Mostly pointless.'
"If there was one thing life had taught her it was that there are times when you do not go back for your bag and other times when you do.
it wasn't going the way she expected".
"It occupied the same co-ordinates in space time [as Earth:].
What co-ordinates it occupied in probability was anyone's guess".
"The possible continually interfered with the probable".Brief summary and favourite quotes from the other four of the five books, as follows:Hitchhiker's Guide (vol 1): http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...Restaurant at the End of Universe (vol 2): http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...Life, the Universe and Everything (vol 3):http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...So Long, and Thanks for all the Fish (vol 4): http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...And Another Thing...(vol 6), by Eoin Colfer : https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Sadly, the five-part Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy “trilogy” ends not with a bang, but a whimper.
With four storylines — displaced earthman Arthur Dent, reckless Hitchhiker’s Guide correspondent Ford Prefect; Trillian, the earth woman once named Tricia McMillan who dumped Arthur at a party to go into space with Zaphod Beeblebrox, and Tricia McMillan in a parallel universe where she stayed on earth — Mostly Harmless reads like a frenzied ride on the bumper cars, with storylines beginning and starting almost at random.In addition, Arthur Dent returns to his whiny and mostly dazed persona that made him insufferable in Life, the Universe and Everything, and while all four storylines eventually converge, the denouement simply isn’t that satisfying.
Take my advice: Stop after the fourth book, So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish, and end on a high note.
Randal: Which did you like better? Jedi or The Empire Strikes Back?Dante: Empire.Randal: Blasphemy!Dante: Empire had the better ending. I mean, Luke gets his hand cut off, finds out Vader's his father, Han gets frozen and taken away by Boba Fett. It ends on such a down note. I mean, that's what life is, a series of down endings. All Jedi had was a bunch of Muppets.
Blechh! Worst. Ending. Ever! I've heard that Douglas Adams wrote this book during a bad time in his life (hey, we all have 'em), but this book more or less stinks. I have chosen to forget that this book was ever written, and that the series ended on a definite high note with "So Long, and Thanks for all the Fish". Those of you who have not had your minds poisoned with this bit of tripe would do well to skip it altogether.
It turns out it takes little more than a moment's questioning to burst our preconceptions at the seams, yet rarely does this stop us from treating the most ludicrous things as if they were perfectly reasonable.It is no surprise that famed atheist Richard Dawkins found a friend and ally in Adams.
By showing a universe that makes no sense and having his characters constantly question it, Adams is subtly hinting that this is the natural human state, and the fact that we laugh and sympathize shows that it must be true.It's all a joke, it's all ridiculous.
Douglas Adams has always had such a massive influence on my writing. I don’t think there’s any other author out there who does madcap, irreverent and downright silly as well as he does. This book, the fifth in the series, continues the craziness of Arthur Dent, Ford Prefect and Trillion, but with the usual unexpected twists and turns, ranging from random daughters (literally called Random) to multi-universes and holy sandwich makers. Blissfully bonkers stuff.
Carefully read The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, then imagine that the most horrible, depressing conclusion possible to the whole affair could happen.
The first few pages start out depressing and it just gets worse until by the end it left me aghast and in tears -- and not in the way good books do that to me.
It is single-handedly the most depressing book I've ever read, in part because the first four books create such an engaging, likable universe filled with delightful characters.There's a theme of loss laced through this book.
I'm a huge fan of Douglas Adams, and loved the first four books in the "trilogy". I was sorely disappointed by the fifth and final book in the series though. To me, it seemed like he was thinking "I'm sick of people whining for more Hitchhiker's books. I'll show them." The way the book ends is so...final. I understand Adams was going through a bad period when he wrote this book, and it shows. Don't bother with this one.
Is That It?25 February 2017 I’m not really sure about this book. At first I was going to suggest that it didn’t have any point but then again this is a part of the Hitchhiker’s Guide series, which basically means that the books aren’t going to have a plot, or a point. Well, I guess the lack of a plot, and a point, is a point in and of itself because it simply goes to demonstrate the absurdity of existance, and that is that there really seems to be no point to this whole thing we call reality and
The thing is that this particular book didn’t seem to even explore the absurdity of reality, which, in a way, was the whole purpose of the series anyway – it seemed as if Adams had simply reached a point where he was writing a Hitchhiker’s Guide novel simply for the sake of such a novel, and when he finished it sent it to his publisher and then went around the corner and had a pint at the local pub (most likely English Ale, but then he could have had a Stella, but from my visits to England my impression was that respectable people don’t drink Stella).
Ne yazık ki her güzel şey gibi bu da bitti, NEDEN BİTTİ!?
Its years since I read the first four volumes of the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy and really enjoyed it.
Perhaps my taste has changed or I can't get into the 'mood' but I really didn't enjoy this book.
It just seemed to be a 'clever' messa round with words and the sort of adolescent fantasies of the universe that kids who were stoned and listening to Pink Floyd tended to come up with.
Like a lot of things, it was more fun to have lived it than to read about it.There were a couple of good sentences that made me pause and think and that boosted up the rating, but only to a two-star.
""Tricia! Where the haemorrhaging fuck are you?"  I found this books slowly went downhill, dont get me wrong I liked them and loved the series as a whole but felt Douglas Adams never really meant to right more than one, maybe two of these books and just lost his was. It was wrapped up very neatly, well in my opinion, and I enjoyed it more than some entries but it just never had that effortless charm of the first...3🌟
Let me just say that 'Mostly Harmless' totally shocked me out of my chair.I read the first four books and pretty much loved the humor, storytelling and not to mention the characters.Some new characters are made in 'Mostly Harmless', and if I had to choose a favorite new character, it would be Random.
Only very few books have manged to make me cry at the end(e.g: Artemis Fowl book 8, Sarah's Key...)Lots of irony and lots of very funny jokes, RECOMMENDED!!!And the reason why I gave it four stars?DO YOU REALLY WANT TO KNOW?Spoiler alert..(view spoiler)[Because every single main character died at the end.
Now there's a neat ending, if I ever read one.
It was brilliant, however bleak.
I could not find in here (in the fifth and last book of the "trilogy") quite so much of the beloved cuckoo sense of humor that made his books always so irresistible to me.
However, I did appreciate the proper science fiction-y feeling to it, which was of course well done, having been produced by the magnificent imagination of Douglas Adams.
I miss you and I regret never having met you, Mr. Adams.
I hope they have good tea, wherever you are.(view spoiler)[The new Guide was an amazing villain!
(hide spoiler)]
The first two books were so wonderful, and I devoured them with giddy joy, then I had to put a little more effort into liking the third book, and it paid off, then the fourth book let me down, and finally this last book kept failing to meet even my low expectations.
Maybe the last third of it is genius, and Random becomes a character I can like even a little, but I didn't see any signs of that in the pages I read, and I'm going home as a quitter.
Douglas Adams finishes off the series with a flourish.
3.5 starsMuch better than the last book, there was a lot more action, space adventure and silly humour. I loved Arthur and the whole sandwich making thing he had going on, it was hilarious, his interactions with Random were quite funny too. I didn't like Ford all that much though, his parts dragged and he just wasn't very entertaining.The ending was a tad depressing with what happened to all the Earths. I guess it was better to end in that way because then the gang would forever travel in space/time, and would never stop having mad adventures.
I combined my review for all of the Hitchhiker books in to one post. It just felt easier that way.You can read the review here:*****Darling & Co.*****
I found this a bit lacking in enthusiasm. A bit too much hopelesness, being stuck, anger, confusion. I felt that Adams has run out of ideas and was repeating himself, with less humor. I was quite bored for parts of it. Overall it is worth finishing and still has some amusing moments.
This is Douglas Adam's final episode of the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, and it's as funny and clever as ever.
For some reason this fifth volume is not included in most collection of Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy and I've only realised this recently.
As with most of Adams' book, I finished the book with the feeling that I only sort of know what was going on and wasn't really sure what the point of it was but I had so much fun along the way that I didn't really care.
It almost feels like it could have continued for a little longer and Adams had planned to write a sixth book but died before he had chance.
It's a shame as there just feels like there is more to tell.
Like its predecessors in the "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy" series, "Mostly Harmless" is a very quick and easy read.
In this way, the story flows along quite nicely.
While the beginning of the story did tend to drag on a bit, once it picked up, I found it to be very engaging and amusing.
The supporting details in this installment meshed flawlessly with those in the previous Hitchhiker books, which in my mind produced a story that was both nonsensical and yet made perfect sense at the same time.
I listened to it on audio and I think Martin Freeman bringing all of these characters to life over the books really made it possible for me to enjoy the story more than if I had just read it on paper.If you have a few hours to kill in a day (or are doing a lot of driving), get the audiobooks.
Martin does a brilliant job at giving every character a voice, especially Arthur (which I would hope seeing as he played him in the movie).
While he's no Alan Rickman, he still makes Martin moody, depressed, and as woe-is-me as ever.
He found it often took a moment or so before he saw exactly what it was that people were driving at."Exactly" answered Ford."So this helps us understand how did we get here and more importantly where we are?""Not at all.""Oh, I know where we are" said Marvin."Then why didn't you tell us?" asked Arthur and Ford simultaneously."You didn't ask" said Marvin."We are asking now" responded Ford with an angry voice.Suddenly out of the woods some knights appeared wearing robes and horned helmets."Ni!" said the leader of them."Ni!
