https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17910.Travesties
Stoppard noticed, apparently for the first time, that Tristan Tzara, James Joyce and Lenin were all in neutral Zurich at about the same time during the First World War. Travesties imagines how they might have interacted, and it does so with real brio – including one scene written entirely in limericks, another imitating a chapter of Ulysses, and several pastiches of The Importance of Being Earnest (a play that James Joyce was paid to stage for the British Council in 1917).It had been many years since I last read this or saw it performed, and despite my happy memories of it, I had forgotten quite how wonderful it is.
The narrative and themes come from the fact that for a period in 1917, three revolutionaries - James Joyce, Tristan Tzara and Lenin - were all residing in Zurich.
This quirky footnote in Joyce’s life gave Henry Carr a place in history and role of a different kind in Stoppard’s play.
I would much rather see a play performed than read it.
In spite of my reluctance to read plays, I was inspired to do so on this occasion by the fact that I’m currently reading Gordon Bowker’s biography of Joyce.
That was all the inspiration I needed to read the play.
The direction notes in brackets within the players dialogue helps to visualise the play, and also to understand its unusual time shifts while reading the play.The verbal abuse between characters maybe a nod to, or have been inspired by the similar language in Ulysses.
Brave of Stoppard, as this makes the attempts in Travesties pale in comparison, which is not to take anything away from this great play.Travesties touches on the unresolvable dilemma of Communist orthodoxy towards art.
Brief description: Henry Carr is recalling his days in the British Consulate in Zurich Switzerland during WW1, when James Joyce, Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov (Lenin), and Tzara (one of the founders of Dadaism) are all there.
In a bow to Oscar Wilde, there are also Cecily and Gwendolyn - Cecily works at the library helping Lenin write a book on imperialism while Gwendolyn (Henry's sister) is helping Joyce research Homer's Odyssey and the Dublin Street Directory of 1904!!
In addition to wickedly funny parodies of Dadaism, Joyce's Ulysses, and Bolshevism, the plot parallels Wilde's with the phony brother and mistaken identities.
While World War I raged across Europe, a remarkable collection of uninterested or conscientiously objecting figures assembled in Zurich, in the still center of the storm: a brooding Russian named Lenin; the Romanian-born poet Tristan Tzara, who was fomenting revolution of a different kind, doodling up the texts that would define (rather vaguely) the Dada movement in art; and James Joyce, embarking on a magnum opus that would shake the literary world to its foundations, "Ulysses."Mr. Stoppard's imagination was arrested by this odd footnote in European history, and in "Travesties" he created a mad tea party with all three in attendance, presided over, in memory, by Carr, a minor consular official who lived in Zurich during the same period.
Except for the occasional line that is both intelligible and perceptive, this is just gibberish. I like some Stoppard, although he always insists on demonstrating that he's the smartest man in the room, but I didn't find this play accessible.
All three of the avant-garde, revolutionary figures are involved in their life's major work, but also bring the literature of Shakespeare and Wilde, the art trends of the period, and the contemporary political theories and relevant historical figures into the play and argue the purposes of art and literature.
The last lines capture the idea of the characters' comments: "Great days...Zurich during the war.
Used to argue far into the night...at the Odeon, the Terrasse...I learned three things in Zurich during the war.
Firstly, you're either a revolutionary or you're not, and if you're not you might as well be an artist as anything else.
Secondly, if you can't be an artist, you might as well be a revolutionary...I forget the third thing."
This is a play hell-bent on miracles.
If you love words, and the linguistic gymnastics possible by those little letter-units, this is the play to read.
Regardless of the intellectual pyrotechnics, I have stolen some of the simplest of Stoppard's lines for my own repertoire.
(the hat)Tzara: Not before I offer you my poem.
(He offers the hat.
Gwen looks into it.)Gwen: Your technique is unusual.I can't tell you how many times I've used the line: "Your technique is unusual" with people that drive me to drink.
This play is like a dry martini that can kiss you back.
Maybe Stoppard's best, though I speak as a play-goer, not a reader; I have read Arcadia and his Seagull, but the others I've seen on stage (in London).
Arcadia, despite seeing it twice, is still a puzzle to me, though I get the overall double plot and time contrast (maybe unique in drama, not a warren of discontinuous plots--Winters Tale excepted).
I liked Arcadia, though I did not understand it.
My first time at Theatre Royal Haymarket I met a Cambridge scholar (I had his survey of lit on my shelf back in the US) who was there for his third time.
Couldn't understand it.
What else should bring anyone anywhere?(TZARA, no less than CARR, is straight out of The Importance of Being Earnest.)CARR: I don't know that I approve of all these Benthamite ideas, Tristan.
I took to drinking hock and seltzer for my nerves at a time when nerves were fashionable in good society.
This season it is trenchfoot, but I drink it regardless because I feel much better after it.TZARA: You might have felt much better anyway.CARR: No, no--post hock, propter hock.TZARA: But, my dear Henry, causality is no longer fashionable owing to the war.CARR: How illogical, since the war itself had causes.
The most intriguing of Stoppard's dramas, Travesties blends history with probability as the minds and works of James Joyce, Tristan Tzara, and Lenin clash in a madcap tale of mistaken identies. This play retells the story of a brief production of The Importance of Being Earnest Joyce produced in Zurich, and is structured after Wilde's fascinating social drama.Please note, this is one piece of dramatic literature that is bound to make yinses heads hurt. Mind you, it doesn't require a full bottle of ALeve like  Rosencrantz and Gildstern Are Dead.
Tom is an unrivaled genius that seems to be neglected in modern literary lists. His style and examination of the heart of human existence should earn him a larger place in literary circles. I learn a lot about myself with each of his novels and Travesties is no different.
Pretty pure Stoppard: philosophy and verbal hijinks, in this case blended for good measure with a dose of The Importance of Being Ernest. As matter of narrative, little really happens, but in between the forced interactions of The characters yields plenty of intellectual heat.
tom stoppard might be the cleverest man alive.
Sjajna postmoderna burleska koja pak ne zahteva preobimno znanje o ciriškoj književno-revolucionarnoj žiži tokom Velikog rata, premda je sama drama skovana od karikatura i pastiša njenih bitnijih i ne toliko bitnih aktera.
This is a such a clever, intelligent comedic romp! Just a great reminder of why Tom Stoppard is a brilliant writer!
An artist is the magician put among men to gratify--capriciously--their urge for immortality.
He is a reactionary in art, and in politics h was brought up in a hard school tha tkilled weaker spirits, but he is moved by a vision of a society of free and equal men.
And he will listen.-CARR: I don't think there'll be a place for Dada in a Communist society.TZARA: That's what we haev against this one.
There's a place for us in it.-LENIN: There can be no real and effective freedom in a society based on the power of money.
Are you free in your relation to your bourgeois publisher, Mr. Writer?
Memory is fallible, which is why personal and political histories can be so hard to pin down as time goes by.
Language is fallible because it is mutable—but then, that's how it's supposed to work.
This play is fallible because the words have significantly more cleverness to them than they do drama.
There are so many philosophical and literary references going on, you barely have the presence of mind to realize that he's just repeated the same scene twice.
Travesties also made me realize that more plays should have dialogue in the form of limericks, so I might just write one.
memorable lines:TRISTAN TZARA: My God, you bloody English philistine -- you ignorant smart-arse bogus bourgeois Anglo-Saxon prick!
When the strongest began to fight for the tribe, and the fastest to hunt, it was the artist who became the priest-guardian of the magic that conjured the intelligence out of the appetites.
Without him, man would be a coffee-mill.
Eat -- grind -- shit.
Hunt -- eat -- fight -- grind -- saw the logs -- shit.
The difference between being a man and being a coffee-mill is art.
The artist has negated himself: paint -- eat -- sculpt -- grind -- write -- shit.
'What did you do?'Bloody nerve.
Bouncing from silly to didactic to absurd, Travesties is ultimately a clever and enjoyable fiction about a confluence of historic characters in early twentieth century Zurich.
I read Travesties at the suggestion of the girlfriend and it was something of an aberration for me.
Reviews have described the play as “challenging” and they’re spot-on—even reading, I occasionally struggled to keep up with the pace of historical allusions.
Travesties brings these legendary figures and ideas back down to Earth and makes for a very entertaining read.There were parts that I didn’t love.
But it’s a fantastically imagined and written play and one I’m glad that I had the chance to read.
Ostensibly this play is based in the memories of Henry Carr, who worked in the British Consulate in Zurich, Switzerland, in 1917.
Also in Zurich at that time (and populating this play) were the revolutionary Bolsheveik V.I. Lenin who would become the leader of the Soviet Union after the Russian Revolution, High Modernist author James Joyce who was then working on Ulysses, and Dada anti-art movement founder Tristan Tzara.
Wilde's play becomes a major intertext for Travesties, as Carr misremembers many of the interactions between himself, Tzara, Lenin, and Joyce, conflating those interactions with the dialogue from Wilde's play.
I can definitely see why it's so well respected.After noticing that James Joyce, Lenin and Tristan Tzara (founder of Dadaism) were all in Zurich in 1917, Stoppard took advantage of that fact to try to connect them to the rather obscure character of Henry Carr, British Consul.
Of course, memory being rather fleeting and uncontrollable, Carr seems to be a little muddled about the exact details, confusing what actually happened with his performance of Algernon ("the other one") in Joyce's staging of Oscar Wilde's "The Importance of Being Earnest."While the characters discuss the purpose of art and the coming revolution, Carr shadily recollects his part in the events of the day.
**.Stoppard has several successful plays under his belt.
The premise of the play derives from the fact that Stoppard learned that in 1917, three famous people were living in Zurich at the same time.
Joyce was planning to start an English drama club in Zurich with a production of one of Oscar Wilde’s plays.
The story is told through the medium of an older Mr. Carr (played by the same actor as the younger Mr. Carr) who wanders on stage periodically.
The play is mostly about what could have been result of these men meeting at the same time in the same place.
Travesties is very much a theatre-nerd's play: it is full of theatre in-jokes and references to other works of literature.
But as a play in its own right, the layers and layers of the Importance of Being Ernest and everything else did not produce a tremendously satisfying work (in my personal opinion, of course).
In sum, I definitely recognize the value of what Stoppard is conveying with all this, but as a play I would see it is personally not my taste.
TZARA: But, my dear Henry, causality is no longer fashionable owing to the war.CARR: How illogical, since the war itself had causes.
I forget what they were, but it was in all the papers at the time.Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead has been a favorite of mine since way back in the 20th century.
(And they say social media doesn't serve the cause of literature.) This mashup of high and low comedy, featuring Lenin, James Joyce, and Dadaism founder Tristan Tzara (they really did live in Zurich at the same time), comes from a 1974 in which the sixties have not yet quite worn off.
But Lenin in a wig is something to ponder as well.

Oh my -- for the Tom Stoppard fan, or the fan of absurdist yet deeply thoughtful theater, this is a must read/must see.
Recently I did both.
I started by reading some introductory material and the first couple of scenes, then saw a wonderful, hilarious professional production of the play (Wisconsin's American Players Theater), and finally completed my read of the script.
[for this one a working knowledge of Shaw, Marxist/Leninist communism, Dadaism, WW I, and James Joyce should suffice to allow you to fully enjoy the play].

I can tell this would be an absolutely brilliant play....if most of it didn't go right over my head. Chalk it up to the lack of history education given to the Millennials. There were many memorable quotes that, despite my overall sense of being lost, were witty and politically searing. I'm almost certain a man with spectacles and a houndstooth jacket stood up after this play and screamed with delight "FINALLY! A play for historians!" The scene that progresses in limerick form was one of the most memorable to me.
A very intellectual play on the affect Art has on government, ideologies and philosophical beliefs. With segments pertaining to Dadaism, Bolsheviks, socialism and communism, we're shown a comedic side to the intellectual "friends" discussing art. Similar to the Lost Generation of Hemingway, Stein, Fitzgerald etc., and the Beat Generation of Kerouac, Burroughs etc., we see this unrealized generation in Zurich. Although a difficult and superbly intellectual play, I found it very insightful behind art and its affect over history.
