https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40776819-pavilion-of-women
When I first started reading this story I felt a little put off by Madame Wu and how she strived to be so perfect so in control of everything she did.
As the story progresses we begin to see the real person that Madame Wu is she has reached the age of 40 and now she feels that she wants her time to do what she wants to do.
She wants a life of her own she wants to feel free to read books and to be herself and do the things she was never able to do.
Buck's "Pavilion of Women." Buck has a subtle writing style that transcends time, making you forget that the book was written in 1946.
Though I was intrigued to read it, given that Buck received both a Nobel and Pulitzer prize."Pavilion of Women" follows a mother and wife "Madame Wu" who, on her 40th birthday, chooses to provide her husband with a concubine instead of ever allowing him back into her physical world.
So many insights into life are offered that it is easy to see why Buck deserved the honour of the Pulitzer.
This novel deeply moved me, not only because Pearl Buck illustrates in it her sweeping knowledge and sympathetic views of the Chinese society in early- to mid-20th century, but also because of the humanistic attitudes and nuanced philosophies that color and enliven her characters.This particular époque in China is one of East-West cultural clashes coming to the surface as the younger generations begin to seriously contemplate a clean break from the yoke of old Chinese traditions and customs and embrace freedom of the mind and soul.
One of Madam Wu's sons has married a girl older than himself, which poses technical problems in the selection of the daughter-in-law who will be in charge of the household once she turns 40, but there are no major problems, or so it seems.
Her late father in law saw that an intelligence of her sort might make her unhappy, and urged her to have patience with his son, who was spoiled by his mother and ended up being less intelligent that Madam Wu. Madam Wu has lived her life fulfilling her duty, but now she wants the freedom to be by herself, to devote herself to learning, to have time to read those book.
This is a story is set in pre-Communist China, just before and during the Second World War. It is centred around a wealthy old-fashioned family called Wu, and explores the psychology of the different relationships between members of this extended family.
The central figure of the story is Madame Wu -intelligent, cool, self-possessed and ordered, she runs a large household of over 60 people, with great efficiency – but always in a very understated and subtle way.
(view spoiler)[ Father André shows Madame Wu the selfishness of the ways in which she has run her household.
Andre, the foreign priest, is surprised that Madame Wu has learned so much about the world within her small sphere of daily life, the high walls of her compound.
No sphere is so small that a person cannot learn all that the human experience has to offer.Pearl Buck allows her characters to be dynamic, and this is one of the things that makes her writing so satisfying.
The philosophical ideas of the author as related by the characters had started out as insightful and interesting, but by the end their placement in the narrative seemed forced and jarring.So in the end, there was nothing about this particular book that was special, that I don’t feel I could have gotten anywhere else- so three stars.
I would definitely read more by the author though, I think I could really enjoy some of the books that she is more well known for, such as the one that she received the Nobel Prize for.
I liked it tons better than "The Good Earth."Loved this thought about Adam and Eve: Because he knew that her mind and her heart were fixed not upon the man, but upon the pursuance of life." he had replied.
But the woman could always be tempted by the thought of a better garden, a larger space, more to possess, because she knew that out of her body would come many more beings, and for them she plotted and planned.
292 (Best quote ever!)To lie is a sin, Brother Andre had taught him simply, but it is not a sin against God so much as a sin against yourself.
A book of striking contrasts, Madame Wu married for many years to a man in the traditional Chinese way, living in Victorian China, that she feels distant and in a sense, isolated from.
She in a sense doesn't feel a connection with her husband-- oh, she honors, respects and is completely loyal to him, but she has a deep desire to learn, has a hunger for knowledge and in some senses, her husband just doesn't "get it".
They never get romantically involved or anything, but she feels more connected to him than really anyone else in her life.
I absolutely adore Pearl S.
Buck's writing.
That being said, I shall have to go through her entire bibliography in order to satisfy myself.
Her prose is a warm bath, complete with the small insights and revelations that often come to one during luxurious respite.
'Pavilion of Women' presents a woman with unparalleled logic and self-control, but who also is ignorant of how coldly she views the rest of the world, those who lack her intelligence and strength of will.
Pearl Buck's writings about China take me back to a place I visited long ago.
Madame Wu had long ago learned that the affairs of a great household must be managed one by one and in order....
And as she had learned to do, while she pondered on large things, she acted on small ones.""You must learn to take from a person that which is his best and ignore all else.""Long ago she had learned that to seem to yeild is always stronger than to show resistance, and to acknowledge a fault quickly is always to show an invincible rectitude.""The sun belongs to uas all ...
A warm and interesting story.
Madame Wu is a thoughtful, interesting woman and she runs her household with care and ability.
Madame Wu takes an unconventional path when on her 40th birthday she reclaims her life and walks away from her marriage bed, freeing herself from her wifely duties and intending to spend the rest of her days in study and contemplation.The teachings of Father Andre are simple and respectful of all life forms and all human beings, regardless of station.
When Madame Wu becomes spiritually motivated, I found the story slowed down but still remained enjoyable.
However, the story became a bit preachy as well.
Pre-Communist China but the times are changing. Madame Wu leads a traditional life running her family, extended family, various adopted/orphans and a cast of servants. The author recreates the traditions with great depth, clarity and without judgement.But the book is also about the various relationships between Madame Wu and her husband, their children, in-laws, friends and servants. The book is also about how people change as they age and hopefully, like Madame Wu, use their experiences wisely and accept that change can be okay.A well crafted novel of a time gone by.
I give Pavilion of Women five stars not for it's execution (though I don't think it's written poorly) but for it's insight and depth and humanity and love.If someone were to ask me, "what sort of person should I be?" I would advise them to read Pavilion of Women, to learn from Madame Wu's learning, and to take to heart Brother Andre's wisdom.
All that Brother Andre says, ponder.I am often shocked that this book of Buck's is not more mentioned.I wrote this review after a re-read.
This fascinating book is an exploration of the feminine self-actualization within a centuries-old, tradition-bound society. The author touches upon a number of themes: the conflict between personal fulfillment and communal responsibility; the role of women in the stratified Chinese society of the time; and finally, the nature of love, romantic and universal.
Saya pikir selanjutnya akan bercerita tentang intrik yang akan terjadi setelah istri baru menempati kediaman Mr Wu. Ternyata saya salah besar, buku ini mengajarkan akan kebebasan berpikir, proses pendewasaan seorang nyonya rumah yang membawa perubahan baik dalam mendidik anak maupun kebebasan jiwanya sendiri.Bagian awal, dengan mudah saya mengambil kesimpulan betapa tersiksanya wanita Cina jaman dulu, kerjaannya hanya melayani suami sampai puas tanpa memikirkan dirinya sendiri, memasak dan mengatur rumah tangga, tidak usah belajar karena wanita itu tidak butuh otak, hanya badan saja, dan tak lupa tugas mulianya yang lain, melahirkan anak laki-laki.
I keep thinking that Pearl Buck novels can't get any better, but then they do!
If you read "The Good Earth" and were sad about the fact that the wife's inner life was completely ignored, then I think you'll find that Buck redeems herself here.
She has some incredible passages in this novel exploring Madame Wu's ideas about why men and women approach relationships differently, ideas that relate to Adam, Eve, childbearing, and the resulting cultural conditioning.
cam 3,5 mai corect....frumos scrisa, interesanta transformarea eroinei principale, dar parca era loc de ceva mai mult...
Historical fiction, Chinese aristocracy, personal and female growth, love lessons… these are all terms to describe “Pavilion of Women” by Pearl Buck.
The depth will surprise you…Pearl Buck’s “Pavilion of Women” instantly immerses the reader into the depth of its plot and character of Madame Wu. Rather than feeling like you need to be introduced properly; somehow there is an old familiarity, like a friend re-visited with an instant camaraderie.
Although Buck clearly understands Chinese customs and ways of life; the culture isn’t overexposed and thus the novel is ideal even for the average reader.
Pearl Buck writes from her knowledge of the country and her knowledge as a woman.We see all that happens through the eyes of Madame Wu, the Lady of the Wu household who manages everything that happens and sees that all runs well, including her children's marriages.
This story takes place in a wealthy household that can afford to have such concerns.It is, I believe, a woman's book, dealing so much with woman's place in the world.
It touched my soul just as Madame Wu's soul was "found" and truly opened to others.Madame Wu, from an affluent Chinese family, rarely ventures from the walls of their home, more like a compound, as there are about 60 people between family & servants living there.
More profoundly is the change that comes from within for Madame Wu. Madame Wu's character is peeled away for the reader layer by layer, like the proverbial onion throughout the story, it makes one reflect on the nature of one's own relationships with others & the world around you.
What an utterly fascinating premise- a wealthy (Chinese) woman turns 40, and decides her husband needs a concubine so he'll leave her the h*** alone.
At a certain point she befriends a foreign monk, whose exact religion is never clear, and her life is changed.
She realizes that ever since she first married, she's been outwardly devoted to her growing family through her words and actions, but not in her heart.
This monk convinces her that she has been inwardly selfish, and needs to open her heart to others.
Perhaps it was because I couldn't grasp the concepts that Madame Wu was trying to convey.
How can a woman, married for 25+ years, suddenly invite a concubine into her home to be her husband's sole companion?
And, not only was the concubine invited, but welcomed??
Either way, I didn't understand much of what happened throughout the course of the book.
I had numerous problems with this book.
I'm proud of myself for making it all the way to the end.
Maybe I'll try another of her novels to see if I like it more.

I have read some of Pearl Buck novels when I was much younger, but I don't remember them being so... exhausting? tedious? annoying? I think the fault is with the main character, who is pretty much the most unrelatable character I have ever come across. She is so self-righteous, so full of herself, so narcissistic, so judgmental, so controlling, I couldn't stop cringing with annoyance. The greatest value of this book lies in the depiction of life in a traditional Chinese household, but you can get that from an anthropology/history school book without Madame Wu irritating you beyond reason.
It was like going on a soulful journey.
Though these sections are defined by the presence or absence of Brother André, this book is primarily the portrait of Madame Wu, the matriarch of the great house of Wu. The book opens with Madame Wu’s implementing a decision she made long ago to retire from the physical duties of being a wife and to bring in a concubine as a second wife for her husband, a decision she adheres to even though her friends and family uniformly consider it a bad idea.
Likewise, there is no grander, more symbolic story of the rise and fall of a great house like that depicted in The Good Earth, which could still work even if its characters fell short.
I will take care of my body carefully, not that it may any more please a man, but because it houses me and therefore I am dependent upon it.Her husband, her sons, her close friend, and even her servants do not understand Madame Wu’s decision, however, and much of the novel relates how she acts to carry out her plan – selecting a young woman to be her husband’s concubine; selecting a tutor for her third son, so that he can attract a wife who has been educated in Shanghai; sending her youngest son to live in the countryside with rural cousins; and, then, trying to solve the problems that arise.
It challenged me to take a deeper look at how I am working to become a better wife to my husband, whether the things I do are for myself or for him or for both of us or for the simple reason that wives are expected to do them.
It’s hard to strike a balance in between what works and what challenges, and as women I think we sometimes get too caught up in being perfect and failing rather than finding fulfillment in the simple things we can do to please God and our families.But I don’t want to digress away from a review and into my own theories.
Though the old Chinese tradions are outdated and even seem cruel to our modern, western sensibilities, one can come to understand the purpose and the perspective with which these ancient practices were carried out.
With her we learn about love and about selfishness and we come to the realization that we can sometimes act selfishly without our own knowledge or intent.For me, perhaps the most exciting part of reading this book was finding a new-to-me author whose many books I cannot wait to plunge myself into.
I thoroughly recommend this solid five-star read.
