https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1127851.Miss_Mapp
Of even more importance: shall Mapp best puffin-shaped Puffin to capture the heart of flinty Flint?The eccentric Quaint Irene versus The Moral Standards of Tilling Village as represented by the censorious Miss Mapp.
Quaint Irene's sharp talent at mimicry makes her a terrifying opponent.The parsimonious Miss Mapp versus the pecunious Isabel Poppit.
Shall brash newcomer Mrs. Poppit best her opponent using her carefully honed talents of having more money, more servants, and certainly a much larger home?The Rubenesque Miss Mapp versus The Entire Village of Tilling.
At its core is a group of genteel society folks living quiet lives that revolve around delicate routine: "...the days would scurry by in a round of housekeeping, bridge, weekly visits to the workhouse, and intense curiosity as to anything of domestic interest which took place in the strenuous world of this little country town." Miss Mapp runs this town like a true queen bee, and it's hilarious to watch her quash any attempts at revolt, and monopolize the town gossip and use it to her advantage...always.
Diva, Miss Mapp's arch nemesis, is one of my favorite characters.
Had the books the same spark as the tv dramatisations, I would liken the stories to Wilde's Important of Being Earnest, which is what I had to think of a few times when reading about the exploits of Captain Flint and Major Puffin, and their supposed rivalry for Miss Mapp.“If your status in Tilling depended on a reputation for bloodthirsty bravery,” he said, “the sooner it was changed the better.
Never mind your status.”“I’ve a good mind never to have a drink again,” said the Major, pouring himself out one of his stiff little glasses, “if a drink leads to this sort of thing.”
In the third of his six "Mapp and Lucia" novels, Benson shifts the scene from the village of Riseholme to that of Tilling.
Benson, of course, is setting readers up for the great battle of the titans that ensues in the fourth book, when Lucia moves to Tilling and goes head-to-head with Mapp.
Describing the plot of a Benson novel makes not a great deal of sense as the books are very episodic.
Despite the all-too-human failings of the Tilling-ites, Benson is never spiteful; instead he seems to positively relish his characters' imperfections and quirks.
I read Queen Lucia not long ago and was instantly immersed in the social schemes and vicious gossip of Riseholme; but divine Lucia, charming Georgie and the delightful opera singer Olga Bracely are one thing, Miss Mapp is another!
Miss Mapp shamelessly spies on her neighbors with opera glasses, claiming to be engrossed in her "sweet flowers" as she perches in her garden room at the head of Tilling's busiest street like a bird of prey, waiting to swoop on anything she considers not up to Tilling's (her) standards.
Book Two of the series, in which the Reader is introduced to Miss Mapp, social dominatrix of the seaside town of Tilling and future arch-rival of the matchless Lucia. Here, she gets a novel all to herself and threatens to chew it to bits with her great, gleaming, hypocritical teeth. Wickedly funny.
3.5* rounded up for this audiobook edition.It has been decades since I read the Mapp & Lucia series and I had forgotten much this entry (2nd in publication order but 3rd in the omnibus). I found Miss Mapp meaner than I remembered but the book funnier (so often the way in satires that the nastier characters are the source of most of the humor).Nadia May does a marvellous narration so I am glad to have listened to this rather than read my Kindle edition.
Miss Elizabeth Mapp -- malicious, snooping, miserly and snobbish -- serves as the social center of Tilling, a thinly veiled portrait of the English town of Rye, Sussex, in the 1920s.
Determined to maintain her position and to one-up her neighbors, Godiva Plaistow and Susan Poppit, MBE, Miss Mapp resents others' success and devotes hours to planning how to elevate herself.
Aside from social-climbing, bridge parties and gardening, Miss Mapp's only other concern is the long-shot scheme of entrapping her neighbor, an Army captain and middle-aged bachelor named Benjamin Flint, into matrimony.Sounds like an outdated bore?
While the first book concerned the sprightly Lucia in the town of Riseholme, this one concerns the conniving Miss Mapp in the (I suppose nearby) town of Tilling.
The two older bachelor men who live across the street from each other, in full view of Mapp's windows and ever-gazing eyes, spend their time trying to sneak around the female busybodies instead.While Lucia's Riseholme set had a more oblivious and blithe atmosphere, Mapp's Tilling set has a (slightly) more frugal and anxious air to it.
3.5 starsMiss Elizabeth Mapp, who is on the other side of 40, has a view of the entire neighbourhood where she sees and conjectures much.
She has her little tiffs with Diva, particularly over clothing, and she secretly wishes one of the gentlemen in the neighbourhood will marry her, although he has been rather naughty and staying up until all hours at home.
But there are a myriad of fun characters, little events and things that make one chuckle in this book.While I can't say that I like the character Miss Mapp quite as well as I like Lucia, I did enjoy the story and the cast at least as much.
I wavered between awarding it four or five stars, because some aspects were truly outstanding and others were only slightly lacking--and it may just have been because I didn't read it daily, but it was a bit hard to keep the characters (except Miss Mapp) straight in the beginning, and the first 1/3 or so of the book were more unrelated vignettes, rather than a continuous storyline as the latter chapters proved to be.
I love reading about Miss Mapp!
Adding to the fun is that in January I was very fortunate to get to visit the lovely village of Rye with my dear friend/fellow anglophile and stroll the streets where these books are set.
It is not a must, of course, but the fact that I know exactly where Miss Mapp spied on the neighbors from her garden, watched the cars rounding the bend in front of the church, and her view down the cobblestone streets, adds to my extreme enjoyment & delight.I look forward to Miss Mapp being joined by Lucia in the next volume.
And the amazing (per said anglophile above who got to see the advance screening) BBC production of these books out now in the UK.
Miss Mapp all on her own is a bit exhausting - so much evil and malice and spite in one plump and dimpled spinster, and none of Lucia's generous nature to lighten the mixture a bit. Miss Mapp's nasty plottings and the social jostlings of Tilling are still enthralling, and Diva is quite lovable. Acidly witty and all too perceptive.
Oh my goodness, how snooty, how nosey, how absolutely delightful. A cup of tea solves everything especially drinking it while looking out the window and observing everyone. This was such fun.
My introduction to the world of E.F. Benson's Mapp & Lucia novels was via the BBC TV adaptation broadcast in the UK in late December 2014.
E.F. Benson's Mapp & Lucia novels were also recommended to me on GoodReads.
Instead we meet the eponymous Miss Mapp and her fellow residents of Tilling (based on E.F. Benson's home town of Rye in Sussex).
I enjoyed this even more than Queen Lucia, particularly the supporting cast and of those the bickering double act of Major Flint and Captain Puffin produced some memorable comedic moments.So it's another undemanding, well written, amusing tale of snobbery and social oneupmanship that has kept my enthusiasm levels high for the the rest of E.F. Benson's Mapp & Lucia novels.4/5
This book has one of my favorite opening paragraphs of all time:Miss Elizabeth Mapp might have been forty, and she had taken advantage of this opportunity by being just a year or two older.
But his books seem to bog down a bit after about a third of the way through.
Things begin to become completely predictable and the language that was refreshing in chapters 1-4 sounds a bit stale by chapter 10.
Another reread that I know already is five stars!Paragraphs like this one are why I adore E.F. Benson:"Peace on earth and mercy mild," sang Miss Mapp, holding her head back with her uvula clearly visible.
But then, Miss Mapp had registered the fact that Diva's notion of singing alto was to follow the trebles at the uniform distance of a minor third below, so that matters were about square between them.Rereading in 2014, Nadia May's sublime performance again.Listened to the audiobook again as traveling entertainment as we drove to Missouri and back.
Miss Mapp occupies herself with playing bridge and spying on her neighbors in the apparently tiny village of Tilling.
“She was quite determined to see him, but more inflexible than that resolve was the Euclidean postulate that no one in Tilling should think that she had taken any deliberate step to do so.”I enjoyed the old gentlemen friends who overindulged and quarreled, and woke the next morning terrified over the pending affair of honor.
Let me have a keek at the last trick but three!”It was harder to enjoy some bits, such as the pure spitefulness of Miss Mapp deliberately spoiling her friend’s debut of a new dress.
The Mapp and Lucia series, based on the first two novels, seems to be a badly executed satire on aspiring English high society.
Is that a good enough reason to immortalize their characteristics in a series of books?
Questionable.
Tending to the hoarddragon in a crimson gownno gold, just gossip.
In Miss Mapp, we are introduced to a new set of characters who reside in another village – there is no connection (as yet) between Elizabeth Mapp and Mrs (Lucia) Lucas.
Miss Mapp lives in Tilling, and like Mrs Lucas in her village of Riseholme she is very much at the centre of life there.
Had Diva got a bit of old stuff..?Miss Mapp pulled herself together first and moistened her dry lips.‘So sweet of you to look in, dear,’ she said ‘Shall we cut?’ Also resident in Tilling is Mrs Susan Poppit – with her MBE and her sables – her bridge parties and her tale of meeting the King.
Benson, E. F. (Edward Frederic) (1867-1940). MISS MAPP. (1922). ****. Benson was a very popular novelist, essayist and biographer. In addition to his large output of novels, he wrote biographies of Sir Francis Drake, Ferdinand Magellan, Charlotte Bronte, Alcibiades, and Queen Victoria. He was the son of the Archbishop of Canterbury. His most popular novels were those that featured Miss Mapp and/or Lucia. This one, obviously, featured Miss Mapp. Mapp lived in the village of Tilling, and was a spi
MISS MAPP.
Benson was a very popular novelist, essayist and biographer.
His most popular novels were those that featured Miss Mapp and/or Lucia.
This one, obviously, featured Miss Mapp.
Mapp lived in the village of Tilling, and was a spinster of about forty years old.
She had several close (?) women friends who were also spinsters, but she concentrated on somehow getting ahead of them in social affairs and in knowing things that they didn’t.
The town of Tilling was full of the usual English eccentrics, and Miss Mapp was on the top of the list.
I am now giggling through this next novel in Benson's series, which takes us to the even more backwater town of Tilling, and its resident "Queen", Elizabeth Mapp...Benson still delivers the story in his masterful satirical style, but I have to admit that this is a town I would avoid if I contemplated travels to fictional places; Tilling seems to be inhabited by barely enough people to populate two bridge tables, nearly all of whom are miserly and constantly obsess about the cost of things, which gets a bit monotonous after a while.
Third book in the series introduces a whole new set of characters who will meet the main ones in the next volume.Along with the amusing descriptions of Machiavellian maneuvering in small town social circles are other sources of pleasure, one of which is that the characters' dialog (or the narration about them) spins an elegant web of allusion and quotation that reinforces the (mythical?) notion that people were once better educated - following the references in this one led me to Shelley, the "Song of Solomon" and a mid-19th century Anglican hymnist whose name I have (regrettably) already forgotten.
Another excellent reading! And unabridged, which made me very happy. Nadia May is a first-class narrator with a real feel for Benson's writing - her prissy Miss Mapp is sheer joy.I'm endlessly diverted by the way that Benson can make me loathe Miss Mapp one minute and feel for her the next, though I think I can say quite definitely that I would hate to know her in real life. And this book sets the scene ready for the arrival of the divine Lucia, soon to become Miss Mapp's arch-rival.Glorious...
Although I did love this book it is probably my least favourite in the series. Miss Mapp is as maddening and Lucia but without her saving graces. There is also a lot of discussing of bridge which I could not follow not being a bridge placers myself. This does continue in the other books but not to the same extent. I really started to enjoy the second half with the tale of the two military gentlemen which is extremely funny
Spotted this on Bettie's list and thought I'd check it out - and it was worth it all right! Amazing cattiness and one-upmanship leads to hilarious consequences. I am definitely looking out for more of this series. My thanks to Bettie!
All books by E.F. Benson are worth reading. The Mapp and Lucia books deal with the minutae of daily life in Tilling, actually Rye, where Benson lived. It is social comedy at it's best.
Delicious!
Read a second or third time in April 2016. Good reading for during chemo.
