https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/771505.Back
After having been temporarily Caught in the maelstrom of Russian 19th century literature, I am now BACK in the world of Henry Green, the painter of low key, everyday worries of ordinary English people Living and Loving in the extraordinary times before, during and after the Second World War. Looking BACK on this pearl of a novel, it strikes me that the title Loss, or maybe rather Blindness would have suited the concept well.
That is when they get their identity BACK, changed and mutilated, but not Caught in the past anymore.Henry Green is a master of quiet truth, hidden underneath words with multiple meanings.
One of those books that reveals itself only once you've finally put it down, but this was well worth the effort I reckon.
It felt at times a bit disjointed, but eventually I came to see that as reflecting Charley's own condition; shellshocked, grief-stricken, thrown back into civilian life and unable to confront the past - sounds heavy going, but this only really comes across cumulatively, whilst the writing itself is funny, frothy, melancholy, with wonderfully authentic dialogue and a kind of obsessive regard for words and their many meanings - like the word 'Back' itself, and 'Rose', the name of Charley's dead lover.
The one word title suggests a lot: what to make of a man who has lost something in war and, back, finds he has lost something at home?
The former is his leg; the latter is his girl, Rose.
Both gone.The plot - what happens upon his return - is actually quite interesting.
And I won't spoil it here.
But that deeper meaning eluded me.Perhaps that's because I couldn't get into the 18th century story within the story that intrudes just past the midway.
But I glazed over.I got, though, all the different usages of the word rose: noun, adjective, verb.
Brilliant. It continued to grow on me for days after I finished it and it ruined anything I tried to read immediately after it.
It seems to be happening as you are reading it because the writing is so simultaneously perfect and yet also natural and ever-changing.
There are sentences composed with such grace and originality that I kept having to close the book and look away and let them ripple in my mind like water disturbed by a stone.
This book will not be for everyone, but it is sort of like a combination of Kafka and Austen, so if you think that would appeal to you, you must read it!
Read it right away!
Mrs. Grant is confused and displays signs of dementia; she doesn’t recognize Charley and thinks that he is her long-lost brother John who died in World War I.
Miss Pitter, a rather plain looking woman, attracts Charley’s attention as he likes to start at her arms.
The ensuing confusion over the identity of Nance and Rose reads like a bit of a slapstick, “Who’s on First” type of a comedy.
I felt that the story was only tangentially related to Charley’s predicament; there is the case of mistaken identity in both narratives but Charley doesn’t appear to learn any type of a lesson after he reads this libellus.
The "back" of the title is "from the Second World War", to a mid-40s England which is economically and emotionally equally straitened.
For all that, this book has a transcendently joyful quality (within a somewhat narrow definition of joy) and I tore through it one day.
The jackets of all recent editions of Green's work are festooned with quotes from John Updike, Anthony Burgess and others of note declaring him the best English writer of his day.He is also, for those that like connections, grandfather to Matthew Yorke and (once upon a time) father-in-law to Emma Tennant, both writers I admire - quite a dynasty!
I found George Toles' critique in the back of the book particularly illuminating, putting into words a few of the novel's sensations that I couldn't place myself." Pain insinuates itself into every corner of the unfolding rural landscape, yet it is a soft pain, a pain nestled in softness.
It is as though the reader were treading backward through the setting, mildly anxious, trying to be silent, over ground that leaves a squishing imprint with every footfall'.Would definitely recommend to anyone interested in post-war literature, as well as anyone looking for something that is at once readable and defiant of convention.
Maybe you're a fan of Henry Green. NYRB is pub'ing three of his this fall ::LovingCaughtBackhttp://www.nyrb.com/search?q=henry+green
Henry Green I love you.
I wrote a commentary about the opening passage of this book and I've been intrigued (read: obsessed) by it ever since. The boy is the pirate's son!
3* Loving TR LivingTR Party GoingTR BackTR Caught
(Another book Gaddis rated ‘I want my money’, it’s like Gaddis has never heard of a library.)DEBORAH EISENBERG FANS UNITEHow great is that Deb intro!?
I read instruction on how to put to together a deck if the manual were written in Eisenberg.
Has everybody signed the petition?
So be sure to sign it if you're new.
It’s so good.
It’s like, amazing.
That kind of clean, minimal style, I know it’s not very fashionable d’ese days—specially for fans of literary spectacle--but whooda!-wooda!, those of us who like it, really like it.
It’s crushing.
All those simple words, those simple motifs, its positively crushing.
He’s lost a leg and, we learn in the opening chapter, the love of his life, a woman called Rose.
The woman calls herself Nancy Whitmore and maintains she was married to an RAF pilot named Phil White who died at Alamein but Charley’s convinced she’s his Rose who’s now working as a prostitute and is possibly even a bigamist.
“Because of your martyr ways, with what you’ve had in the war, and your Rose,” she said.
A soldier returns from WWII, becomes obsessed with the half-sister of his dead wife, sort of loses his mind, sort of gets it back. I complained that the other two novels I read by Green – Loving and Doting – were masterfully written but too narrow. Here I couldn’t help but feel the opposite. There is some fabulous language – the first few chapters, which are more impressionistic, even experimental, are very strong – but the narrative is rather shaggy, and didn’t exactly pull together for me.
Great novel that disorients the reader because he or she is given as much (or as little) information as the rest of the characters. All motivations are unclear because much of the text is left to dialog without any cues as to what the characters are thinking. Also, I love that the main character's deepest source of loss is the one thing he can't legitimately claim as his: another man's deceased wife.
This is a strange book about coming home from the war, but then again any book about how it is like to do that would have it's strange aspects. I had to keep reminding myself it was written recently because it had a feel like current trends in writing. It did bother me that the main character was so slow in his ability to know what is going on, -but that is the real aspect.
I almost gave up on this one but I'm glad I didn't. Starts off a little dijointed and unsure, although I suppose that was probably Green's intent. 'Back' really started to pull things together just past the halfway mark, at which point I couldnt put it down. Mr Green's writing is beautifully poetic and feather light; the story had me hopelessly smiling to the end, smitten and dreamy.
I really don't know what to make of this book (really a novella). My dad bought it for me as a Christmas gift and I just got around to reading it. I'll have to ask him why he picked it out for me. Strange little story that kept me reading till the end. Looking back on it, I think I liked it?
I found it quite boring, and the prose style unenjoyable.
I relate to the main character like no book I’ve ever read before. I really enjoyed this book and Henry Green’s writing style. A very easy and great read.
Rose did have a son before she died named Ridley, that both Charley and James believe to be their own.
He is horrified that the woman he loved has left her husband and her son, married another man, lives alone without contact with her parents, and refuses to admit to him who she is.
The rest of the novel describes the complex and troubled relation between Charley and Nancy, as it unfolds against the background of a war-torn Britain."Back" is a short novel, I read it in one day, and when I closed the book the feeling I had was that I wanted more.
I want to know what happened to Charley's parents.
After having been really taken with The Love-charm of Bombs: Restless Lives in the Second World War, a biography of a group of WWII authors who included Henry Green, I was eager to give his work a try.
Rose, the woman he was in love with has died, and Charley experiences a sense of dislocation and bewilderment, lost among the thickets of relationships that entangle him.
When I finished, I went back to the beginning and dipped in again to the middle, appreciating how Green's prose seems to mirror the tangle and flashes of clarity of Charley's thoughts.
Out of all the books I've read so far for my EN4413 module, Reading the 1940s, this is definitely the one I enjoyed least.
I was wavering between a 5/10 or a 6/10 for this as, while it was very easy to read, my interest in it waned about half way through the book.
I was intrigued by the premise of Charley being paranoid and convinced that Nancy was Rose and that everyone was conspiring against him, but after he seemed to regain his senses the book was much less interesting.
While this book made for some excellent discussions in my seminar group, I wasn't very fond of the story itself.
My first shot at a Henry Green book.
I liked it.
It's hard to blame his protagonist for being so clueless; in fact, it's too be expected since he's just back from service in WWII where he lost a leg and was in prison camp.
Green takes us right inside his head, but there's so much cotton in there it's hard to really see what's going on.
I guess that's the point.
Anyway, it's a sensitive portrayal of a traumatized, naive young Britisher.
I'm motivated now to go on and try what seems to be his most acclaimed work, Loving.
This did not feel like typical Green, and it took me a while to get into, though I was starting to love it a little by the end. Even the name--one of his few non-gerund titles. In a way, it almost seemed like a savage parody of his own style--the few characteristic, awkwardly beautiful phrases were very close to being overwrought, though their feeling deliberately so, to represent Charley Summers' strained perspective, mitigated that somewhat.
Closer to five stars than four. A very nimble, swiftly moving, tricky kind of novel. Set in the last year or so of World War II, in England. The characters are often surprising, just as "real people" are, saying something you don't expect, saying exactly the opposite of what they are thinking, continually keeping you from quite pinning them down. This is my first Henry Green novel, and it's quite a good one.
"Back" by Henry Green is a well written and impressive story about a man returning from World War II to find his love Rose dead. He is lame due to an injury in the war and has a hard time accepting normality back in the UK. Thematically this is well done but the book was recommended to me for its style, mainly written in dialogue form. For me that did not work as well as it does for other readers, including John Updike.
I liked this book for a while, but it overstayed its welcome and halfway through I abandoned it. This is about me and a sort of mid-century British and American modernism. I know many who greatly admire Green and 15-20 years ago I probably would have felt the same. Three stars—not a bad book, just not for me.
Beautifully written! I personally think this is Henry Green's best novel! If you liked Rebecca West's 'The Return Of The Soldier', Virginia Woolf's 'Mrs Dalloway' or Erich maria Remarque's 'Der Schwarze Obelisk' for their depiction of war-trauma/shell-shock and relationships, you will love 'Back'.
