https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39796.Sidetracked
As the fifth entry in this series opens, Swedish police detective Kurt Wallander is looking forward to his upcoming vacation, but then he answers a call to a farmer's field where a young girl has been standing all day in what appears to be a catatonic state.
As it does, a couple more men will be murdered and scalped and it becomes pretty clear that neither Wallander nor anyone else on his team will be going on vacation anytime soon.This is another very intriguing and entertaining entry in the series and, as always, it allows Mankell to make observations about a number of social issues.
Sometimes when you discover a new author -- even when your first exposure to their books doesn't blow your mind -- you see the promise of something fantastic, and you keep reading.
I've enjoyed his books, some of them quite a bit, and I have become a big fan of Kurt Wallander (played brilliantly on the BBC by Kenneth Branagh*), Mankell's brooding, anti-social, middle aged, tenacious, Ystad cop.
But Mankell finally delivered on the promise he made me in his first Wallander book, Faceless Killers.
Wallander feels, this time, like he's not just a character on the page, but a real cop, a real person, living somewhere out there in the world at this very moment.
Go to any review of these Wallander books and you're likely to run into the following: "Wallander is my favorite detective and this novel didn't let me down when it came to him and his character development." Or, "[...] a protagonist you don't love or hate, he's just a real guy." It is this realism, this portrayal of a flawed but very decent policeman: a man with a troubled family, a daughter, a sister, his father the aging artist; a man with insufferable insomnia; a very lonely middle-aged man afraid of love; a policeman who still misses his dead colleague; a man who mourns a Sweden swiftly on the decline; a human being with a unbridled passion for natural landscapes and opera.
Deceptively long at 350 pages with a small font, the terrific detective saga took longer than I thought, but satisfied throughout. What I like the most about Wallander is that he is very human, and not just another cop on a case. We can relate to the complexities of his personal life, while at the same time follow his brilliant and sometimes hard-luck scramble to find a psychopath. I am now officially a fan of the Kurt Wallander series. Although the Swedish characters and settings are a mouthful, there is a great story behind it all!
Odlična! MOžda čak i najbolja od ovih koje sam čitala.
Reading this book, I found myself really wishing that Inspector Kurt Wallander would get some professional help.
Before Wallander's horrified eyes, the girl burns to death in the grain field.And then, of course, there are the serial murders.Someone is killing men, some of them very powerful men, by various horrific means.
And what possible motive could the killer have for scalping the victims?
The Ystad murder squad is on the case, led by Wallander, and, painstakingly, they work through the few clues they have, hoping for a break.
Not only because I love crime novels, but also because the book was simlpy a great page-turner, one-day read.
As I believe telling a plot of a detective story spoils the whole fun, I am not going to say a single word more about it.I admit I decided to read the book because I have seen one or two episodes of the TV series based on Mankell's books, but even though I was really more interested in listening to the beauty of Swedish language (which I can't understand) than in what was actually going on, still I could not help being attracted to the story and the characters.
And so I got my first book by Mankell, which in fact happens to be the fourth or so of the series.
Much better than the first Wallander book, imo!
I read and listened to this and prefer the translation in this Kindle edition.
(see below for the cover I had from Amazon for this ASIN)Mankell wrote this in a manner that makes the culprit clear to the reader long before Wallander and his team figure it out.
Normally I don't care much for that style of mystery, as it removes the puzzle aspect of the book and turns it into more of a thriller, but it worked very well in this case.Tne cover my Kindle edition from Amazon had:
This was the very first Wallander book I ever read.
While it started out rather gripping (any time a person lights themselves on fire in the middle of an open field, you have my attention) but I felt that it got a tiny bit slow, just as all the Wallander books do.
I mean, most of them are pretty straight forward police procedurals.
To be quite honest, the only reason that I keep coming back to Henning Mankell's stories is because I like Kurt Wallander so much.
I find myself reading just because I like Kurt.
I'd say that Sidetracked was one of the better Wallander novels that I've read.
I mean, who doesn't love self-immolation, hatchet murders, and scalpings?
This one felt a little phoned-in, plot and character-wise. Also, it was summer in Ystad, and I missed the cold, windy, dreary, dark Skånean winters of earlier books. Third, I'm not a fan of introducing the killer at the outset (though his identity isn't revealed until halfway through). It dissipates rather than enhances the drama. The only mystery was whether the killer would come after Kurt and Linda.The third star is because I enjoy reading about Wallander's laundry dilemmas.
Very good plot with excellent sleuth of Wallander
Ενα 5άρι στον μεγάλο, τον τεράστιο, στον τόσο αγαπημένο μου Μανκέλ. Ενα βιβλίο για το πώς πρέπει να γράφονται τα αστυνομικά μυθιστορήματα, πώς να σκιαγραφούνται οι ήρωες και πώς να εξελίσσεται η έρευνα. Ούτε μια λέξη περιττή, ούτε μια σκηνή αδιάφορη. Ο Κουρτ Βαλάντερ ήρεμος και μοναχικός παλεύει με μια ηθική αξιοθαύμαστη, αλλά τόσο μελαγχολική.
4stelle e 1/2 per un grande Wallander!!
I really like Kurt Wallander and can see why he is a character interesting enough to meet in novel after novel.I wasn't really sure about the end of the story, whether it was a whimper rather than a bang, but on reflection, I thought it was appropriate because this was a story about the detective not about the murderer.I have read a lot of crime fiction and think that, if I ranked them, this would be in the top half of the list.
Έχουν να κάνουν με έναν serial killer που δρα τυχαία ή με κάποιο κίνητρο; Την αυτοπυρπόληση μιας 17χρονης στο χωράφι του ηλικιωμένου Σαλομόνσον, την ταυτότητα της οποίας δεν ξέρουν, (view spoiler)[Ντολόρες Μαρία Σαντάνα (hide spoiler)]ο Βαλάντερ θα αρχίσει να συνδέει μόνο όταν βγαίνουν στη φόρα τα άπλυτα του τέταρτου θύματος και με τη βοήθεια του επιθεωρητή του Χέλσινμπορι, Βάλντεμαρ Σγέστεν...(view spoiler)[Ο Στέφαν Φρέντμαν, ο 14χρονος γιος του Μπγερν, ταυτιζόμενος με ινδιάνο πολεμιστή εκδικείται τους ανθρώπους τέρατα που έφεραν στην αδελφή του Λουίζ στο ψυχιατρείο και το μικρό του αδελφό στα πρόθυρα να βγάλει τα μάτια του.
It's as good a Wallander book as I've read.
He's worried about his daughter and his Latvian girlfriend and Sweden's decline and, oh yeah, there's a serial killer loose in Ystad.
I mean, Wallander is chasing an axe-wielding serial killer and at every turn someone is wondering how this case will accommodate their summer holiday.
- www.aei-ideas.org/2012/06/maybe-this-...In Sidetracked, I learned about a Swedish deal call "Name Day".
Sweet!I told Ty about Name Day, and he wondered what you did if your name wasn't listed.
Here's another link: www.scandinavius.com/sweden/seconnect...I heart Wallander!yow, bill
It's mysterious in the sense that there are many surprises along the way but it's not really a classic Mystery because reader knows who the killer is long before Wallander does.Is it a Police Procedural?
Sort of since the reader is privy to how the police go about their work but only to highlight Wallander's thinking.Is it a Thriller?
Mankell spends a lot of time exploring Wallander's thinking as he tries to solve the murders and the sub-plot involving his relationships with his woman friend, his daughter and his father are well documented from his point of view.
He spends more time thinking things over and discussing them with his team than other mystery novel protagonist.
He will not hesitate to shoot someone if he feels it is necessary.Characters speak like real people.
That being said, the dialogue seems to me at times stilted, and occasionally the characters seem to be speaking with the same voice, but that may be due more to translation than any fault of the author.
This is the first mystery I’ve read wherein a team of detectives are almost universally affected by the violence and death they see in their lives.
Sweden is disintegrating despite their best effort to build a kinder and gentler nation --a perfect nation as it used to seem.
What Sweden apparently learned in the '90s is that there are some people who insist on being uneducated, disadvantaged and depraved despite the social safety net and universal health care.
This is not surprising to me, but apparently it is to Kurt Wallander, who feels increasingly ill-equipped to deal with it.
Like Tommy Lee Jones in No Country for Old Men, he feels the criminal element is becoming too violent, too organized, too American for him.
He's a Swedish author, so I expected a little more cultural inserts, but there didn't seem to be any.
But in spite of that, I liked this.
The characters were great too.
I did the audio and Dick Hill did a great job with the narration and I think that helped with my impression of the characters.
My only real complaint about this book is that the transitions (between scenes or ending conversations) were a little clunky and awkward.
I'm just not a fan of that....it is just a little pet peeve of mine.Overall, I liked this and look forward to reading more.
This is an excellent Wallender book, very carefully and intricately constructed. That the book works so well is quite a feat since there is no mystery as to who the murderer is. Mankell avoids melodrama, even when the opportunity offered itself, and continues to develop and deepen several key characters. He is a patient writter, and 420 pages is a lot to ask for from a reader of genre - hence, the missing star. But my interest never flagged. Mankell fans should appreciate this one, if approached in a leisurely manner.
Ironically enough, and just like Kurt Wallander, I got sidetracked in the middle of this and read 3-4 other books. It's the sign of a good book that I remembered the plot and picked up from where I left off with no harm done. This one is easily the best of the series so far, and the best read since Faceless Killers; it's renewed my goal to read them all, which was flagging somewhat.
**1/2.I got the feeling that Mankell dug into the worst recesses of his mind to develop the plot line for this novel.
The story starts out with a young girl setting herself on fire in the middle of a field of rapeseed.
In the meantime, we see the beginnings of another set of weird killings.
This is nothing like the plot to Mary Poppins.
On top of these sick events, we have to deal with the real world worries of Wallander as he mulls over what is going on in the world around him.
A Kurt Wallander mystery told from the perspectives of police and criminal.
A foreign teenage girl burns herself to death under inspector Wallander's eyes.
Several homicides take place where the victim is not only killed but scalped.
The victims don't seem to have any connection.
The viewer will know quite early that the serial killer is a deranged adolescent boy, but what exactly is his motive?4* Faceless Killers (Kurt Wallander, #1) 4* The Dogs of Riga (Kurt Wallander, #2) 4* The White Lioness (Kurt Wallander, #3) 4* The Man Who Smiled (Kurt Wallander, #4)4* Sidetracked (Kurt Wallander, #5) 4* The Fifth Woman (Kurt Wallander, #6) 4* One Step Behind (Kurt Wallander, #7) TR Firewall (Kurt Wallander, #8) TR The Pyramid: And Four Other Kurt Wallander Mysteries (Kurt Wallander, #9) TR An Event in Autumn (Kurt Wallander, #9.5) TR The Troubled Man (Kurt Wallander, #10) 2* Quicksand4* O Homem de BeijingTR A Treacherous Paradise
I particularly like the portrayal of his feelings about his father and his daughter - one turning back into a child, and the other growing into an independent adult.Sidetracked starts dramatically with a girl setting herself on fire - an 'open-and-shut' suicide case that affects Wallander not because it is suspicious but because it happened in front of him and he can't understand why a young person would choose to inflict such pain on themselves.
I began reading Sidetracked after we had started watching the British television productions of Mankell's Wallander books, with which I immediately connected.
Wallander is a skilled detective but less skilled at managing his life.
Wallander knows he's a skilled detective though, and recognizes others who are skilled as well.
We the reader get to see the killer and understand his motivation early on, and we get to watch Wallander and his associates struggle to find the connections and expose the murderer.
I enjoyed the characters, empathized with Wallander and appreciated the European setting.
My favorite Wallander book so far in the series.
He is still unsure of himself (and his car license, and his laundry) but obviously in full police mode throughout.
The scenery isn't dreary winter, it's summer holiday.
So there's none of the dreariness that came from the weather and the locations that really set the mood in the earlier books of this series.
Outside of the gruesome murders no new health issues come up either, except for a nasty sunburn, so that isn't driving any dreariness and dark mood.
Looking forward to the next Wallander and hoping it isn't summer.
This book does have the annoying tick of constantly flashing into the killer's mind, which I think ruins the suspense -- I'm much more interested in following the investigation as it unfolds, matching wits with the police, etc, etc.
It also has the silly flaw of making the killer one of those who decides to try to kill our protagonist, instead of hiding from the police, as a sensible murderer would do.
However, I enjoyed it despite these flaws, these books will fill the hours until the next Jo Nesbo is released in English.
Suspenseful psychological thriller.
The killer is someone to sympathize with, but his deranged recipe for trying to achieve an admirable goal is indeed insane.
Still it would have been great if it worked, especially since his victims are hardly people eligible for any nobel-human-being prize.
In the second half his choice of victims starts to stray a little off, which jacks up the suspense.
"But I have to explore every avenue I find." Nevertheless, good fast-moving thriller that I read in grocery store lines and walking to the bus stop.
A good "escape-your-own-life" book.

