https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27343.The_Edge_of_the_Sea
Rachel Carson would be cause for serious regrets re: my career if she didn't write in such a damned inspirational way.
Barring that, all you need is free time to read and an open canvas of a mind for her words to paint on.I was with a girl digging up Coquina Clams a week or two ago, and realized how little time I'd spent by the water.
That, plus finishing Carson's book, is plenty of reason to walk the tide line and dig my toes in the sand.
"Nowhere on the shore is the relation of a creature to its surroundings a matter of a single cause and effect; each living thing is bound to its world by many threads, weaving the intricate design of the fabric of life." (p.20) We have severed most of those threads, but Rachel Carson in this book from 1955, describes in a most beautiful, poetic manner the vast web of connections amongst all the denizens of the seashore and the sea itself.
She looks at the life found on beaches (but not on blankets) and around the rocks, reefs, and mangrove swamps at "the edge of the sea".

Even though some of the information was outdated, I learned quite a bit. This book was densely packed with knowledge and because of this it took me quite a while to finish. I enjoyed all that I learned, enough so that I even read the appendices (though I don't think the editors did by the number of typographical errors). Well worth it, but maybe try to pace yourself and intersperse your reading with something a little lighter.
The Dewey Decimal system puts this in the 500's - hard science. Sure, yeah, I guess. It struck me more as Carson's love letter to the several ecosystems on the American Atlantic coast.And Carson shows her love by enumerating and describing in grad-student field-notes-level detail all the species found there.It's all important, and good, stuff, but came across as several laundry lists to me.
Beautiful book. Just the kind I like to read during January. “It is in part a sense of the unhurried deliberation of earth processes that move with infinite leisure, with all eternity at their disposal.” This goes on the shelf next to John McPhee. It’s the next best thing to spending a month by the sea.
Didn't finish. 50 pages in and all she has done is describe in great, great detail every creature/plant that lives there. Reminds me of a bird field guide but without the pictures or structured descriptions. Her prose was excellent, but not what I was looking for. Moving on to something else.
Like all scientist's, Carson was well aware that new observations and theories might someday override her conclusions, but in 1955 this book was at the cutting edge of marine biology.
As Carson talks about many of the shore's organisms she reminds the readers that some of her conclusions are mere speculation and that much remains to be discovered by future scientists.
I really enjoyed reading this classic nature book, it offered many incites on our oceans's myriad livings things, their life histories and evolution.
Also included in this e-reader edition is a new introduction by modern nature writer Sue Hubbell.
Scientist and ecologist Rachel Carson is famously the author of Silent Spring (a landmark book challenging the use of pesticides), and not-quite-so-famously the author of The Sense of Wonder (a short book about helping children develop a sense of wonder and appreciation for the natural world) which I have gushed about in the past.The Edge of the Sea is a great read for anyone who likes to spend time mucking around in tide pools, or is curious about the strange creatures that live in them.
There isn't much I can say about this book that hasn't already been said. This was my introduction to Rachel Carson, and the book has helped to change how I view the ocean, the shore, and the environment in general. The true gift of this book is Ms. Carson showing readers how everything in oceanic ecosystems is interrelated. I will read this again upon my next visit to the edge of the sea.
Carson’s descriptive and lyrical writing make this a worthwhile read for anyone who enjoys visiting the beach or is curious about what life forms may be present below the waters at high tide.
The descriptions of Carson’s own searches for these animals will appeal to even the most casual beachcomber, even if we, unlike she, are reluctant to tread forth with flashlight on a cold October night to see the anemone in the twice-annually-uncovered-by-the-tide sea cave!After short poetic chapters on the nature of the zone between ocean and land and the patterns of life within them, the book is divided into three large chapters: on rocky shores, sandy beach, and coral coast.
It never retreats from a sense of awe at that same life force which eventually produced the human race, and which is still the heart of a mystery.
It's interesting to extrapolate and compare some of the tendencies of these simpler life forms onto the human race.
Its also interesting to note that this devaluation of the individual life resurfaces for the human species in its perpetuation of war and tribal clashes.Finally, I guarantee that when you go to the shore for the first time after reading this book, you will not look at it the same way that you once did.
When my family sugggested a trip to the Florida Keys, I was inspired to finish the read.Carson's book focuses on the plants and invertebrates surviving in the Atlantic zones between the lowest and the highest tides, between Newfoundland and the Florida keys.The sketches, by Bob Hines, of marine animals who live there are extremely helpful.
I doubt I could have gotten throught the book otherwise, in spite of the beautiful prose.Though I have spent many hours photographing seaweed, algae, barnacles, snails, mussels, jellyfish, clams, and footprints in the sand, I have never stopped to wonder how it all works......how these animals reproduce and survive, how the moon influences the tide, the vegetation, and the life of marine animals.
I think if Rachel Carson and Muriel Wylie Blanchet had lived at the same time on the same side of the continent, they would have been friends.This is like Pagoo for grownups :) My other favorite book about sea creatures.
This is one of my most-loved books of all time. Packed with illustrations, it's like having a marine biologist walk along the beach with you. Or, for a marine biologist like me, it's a reminder of the wonder and the grandeur of the sea, the motivation that got me my vocation.
Rachel Carson aptly and poetically describes and walks her readers through three different shores along the Atlantic coastline: rocky, sand, and coral all while describing the multitude of life that lives on, in, and beneath the water.
Carson has the skill for describing the interactions of all of this plethora of life and how all of it interacts with one another.I read the lion share of this book while strolling up and down the beaches of Ocracoke Island.
From the shells beneath my feet, to the different crabs frantically scuttling around the beaches at night.
Rachel Carson was not only a brilliant scientist but an outstandingly gifted writer.
Her patient observation and visual descriptions make you think you should lift you feet from the incoming tide.
The countless hours of mesmerizing study and research come to life in this beautiful book of the sea shore.The illustrations precisely achieved by Bob Hines are nothing short of a master artist.
What a perfect match of artist to writer.This world needs more champions like Rachel Carson to guide the human race in slowing down.
Observe and preserve this most wondrous world we live in before it isn't so beautiful anymore or as easy to live in.
One of the best dollars I ever spent, for the yellow-paged paperback found in a pile at the library book sale.
The tiny creatures and the vibrant world they exist in seem completely alien to me, though they're only an arm's length away or even at times right under my feet.
Every sentence is so densely packed with information, both factual and poetic, I could only read a page or two at a time, sometimes repeating paragraphs just to savor the imagery Carson creates.
For that reason, it's taken me two years to get through this book.
I look forward to re-discovering this world again on a second read.
This was not quite as wonderful as The Sea Around Us, but it's pretty great.
The drawings help to envision whatever she's writing about (many of which were unknown to me), Time magazine got it perfectly: "remarkable talent for catching the life breath of science on the still glass of poetry".
Isn't that fantastic?
Also, someone said: "is packed with precise knowledge, and derives its constant awareness that beyond knowledge still lies mystery".
Too true.
Her writing is inspirational in many ways -- the knowledge she imparts, plus the magical writing itself.
Imagine what she could have done if she had lived 10 more years -- it's mind boggling.
A beautifully written book that is neither entirely scientific nor entirely poetic but born of observation and true respect for the subject. It's hard to find a narrative in Carson's work, but she definitely makes the inter tidal world fascinating. A book to consume in small bits, allow it to wash over you like waves over sand.
Lots of science, but Carson's fondness for the life of the intertidal zone gives the writing a warmth that makes it more accessible than a simple textbook. Evocative descriptions and loads of information.
Lovely illustrations and prose.
As a marine science communicator this is one of my favorite books of all time. Carson talks about the sea and it's many life forms so lovingly.
I realized while reading this book that I actually don't know anything about the ocean. Now I know a few things. This would be a lovely book to read right before visiting the beach.
DNF at around page 100. I love Carson. Her writing is beautiful. But this book is a bit more science-specific than I can handle right now <3
Just couldn't get into this book which would be much better as a film or video, since it is difficult to visualize the flora & fauna described, even with the scattered illustrations
"For it is now clear that in the sea nothing lives to itself . . . the present is linked with the past and future, and each living thing with all that surrounds it."
This is an elegant explanation of the lives of some of the organisms which live in the intertidal zone of the American eastern sea coast, between high and low tide.
An explanation of the formation of each of these types of coast leads to the life histories of the plants and animals that inhabit it.
Throughout the narrative is the awareness of constant change: both of habitat and inhabitants.
Much more may now be known about many of these organisms but as an introduction to the sea shore, this narrative will always be useful, educational and inspirational.
Carson remains as poetic and romantic in her prose as ever,  It was a mere yesterday in the life of the earth that they were there; in nature, time and space are relative matters, perhaps most truly perceived subjectively in occasional flashes of insight, sparked by such a magical hour and place.
Each particle of sand has been carved out of the parent matter by millions of years of erosion by rock, glacier, rain, river and sea.
Sunk miles to the black bottom of the sea, entombed in a bedrock prison and cast up by the earth's mantle only to be released by its gritty brethren battering the mountain side over a million years of sandstorms.
You might also enjoy:✱ Song for the Blue Ocean: Encounters Along the World's Coasts and Beneath the Seas✱ The View from Lazy Point: A Natural Year in an Unnatural World✱ The Ocean of Life: The Fate of Man and the Sea✱ The Unnatural History of the Sea✱ The World Is Blue: How Our Fate and the Ocean's Are One
