https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2997.My_Secret_Garden
Omg, I heart this trashy little piece of "research" on female sexual desire. Let's face it, if you can make it one page without your hands going into your pants you're probably dead.This thing is like the penthouse forum except it admits it's all fantasy. Yes, there are busloads of nuns and cheerleaders and maintenance men but nobody's trying to pass them off as actual experiences.
Reviewed Feb. 18th, 2013Like so many older books on sex that purport to have a sociological raison d'etre. In this case, the (at the time) ground-breaking discussion of women's fantasies but in actuality it's just a not-very-well written collection of extremely dirty stories that unless you neither fancy women nor are one, are probably going to get you hot, just as the author intended.
Filthy, irrational, pointless, and rather badly written, like all of Nancy Friday's books, My Secret Garden offers what pretty much amounts to a guarantee to get me off.
I read this as a young teen, I think I was either 12 or 13. I got my copy in a thrift store. I was always shopping for books in the thrift store back then. I kept it secret because I'd never read anything so explicit before. I'm giving it 5 stars because it made a big impact on me at that young age.
One thing I will say for this book is that it can do wonders for a person (me) who feels concerned or disturbed about the things that occur in their fantasy life.
I felt this book did a very poor job of representing what these fantasies meant on a personal level to the person relating them and in that sense there was something akin to exploitation about packaging them as a general representation of women who have any one of the given fantasies shared in the book.
If this had been a book of male fantasies and a man had confessed to having molested an 11 year old girl and then marrying her 2 years later, this would not be acclaimed as a treatise on male sexuality.
My idea was to get some kind of clue to what women secretly think about...It taught me that all women have sexy little fantasies that they hide from most people, even sometimes from themselves.
25 years after I read it, I began a similar book using her basic categories, or 'types' of flowers in the secret garden.
I've read all of her books, but this one is still the best.
My belief now, after years of interviews with various women, is that every woman has inside her a bouquet of sexual fantasies that makes her totally unique from other women.
Nancy Friday's books are so refreshing to me.
This is the first book of women's sexual fantasies collected by Nancy Friday starting in the 1970's.
She was a woman who wanted other women in a world that was finally opening up to female sexuality to be free to anonymously unveil their deepest sexual fantasies for other women to enjoy and be inspired by.
For those who would like to be refreshed by the fantasies and lives of real women telling their real stories rather than porn and semi porn published by men showing what they think our fantasies are or should be, check out all of Nancy Friday's books.
And before internet porn and Shades of Grey there was one clever lady who collected other people's fantasies and packaged them neatly into a book with only the bare minimum of pseudo-intellectual, psycho babble around it as was required to make it past censorship - and hey presto a multimillion dollar book was born.
I still take my hat off to Mrs Friday for letting others do the work but also thank her for the copy that existed in my parents' house and that introduced me to fantasising beyond meeting the object of my desire in the first place...although, personally, I could have done without the incest and the bestiality.
Tongue in cheek aside: an important book in the liberation of women that deserves its status.

NOT for the faint-hearted about sexuality. I was not only surprised, but pretty deeply shocked at some of the fantasies women told for this book. I learned that I am still pretty much a prude AND that my own fantasies are more emotionally and romantic based, than having to do with pure sexuality. Part of me wishes I had not read this book, but part of me is glad that it helped me learn a few things about myself and my morals and boundaries.
Great book. It makes you feel like less of a weirdo for your own fantasies lol. And if you're an aspiring erotica writer its a great source of inspiration. Didn't really enjoy her interjections but I just skimmed over them. Definitely worth the read.
This book made me feel so NOT like a freak. It was nice to know other women were fantasizing, too.
[These notes were made in 1981:].
Naturally enough, I bought this out of prurient interest.
It is immensely reassuring.
Those aspects of oneself which seemed most isolated, most perverse, have their echo in this book.
(Note careful avoidance of first-person pronoun.
Hypocrite!) And, of course, it was quite illuminating as to how far people will go in their fantasizing, although there is nothing here I haven't already met in the pages of Penthouse Forum.
This book, however, lacks the almost flaunted speciousness of Forum's "reader contributions", and is in that degree more reassuring.
The psuedo-scientific approach was very lacking in any kind of organization, short of allegorically, but the grouping was enough to know when you were about to need to do some skimming over the more disinteresting portions, so I guess there is that.One more eye opening thing that I got from this, was the PURE fantasy.
Maybe the typical guy mind set of, "Oh you want something, lets get / do / find / buy whatever it is..." is just too ingrained in our heads, but I liked the idea.
Always good for us blokes to get a window into a world like this. Have to be in the know... and all that.
Other contributions that touched me in a way:- The woman, who was most definitely not a lesbian, but who often fantasised about being with a woman, and who often had sexual encounters with a lesbian friend of hers, which made me feel for that friend.- The man who wrote in to tell that his wife had no fantasies whatsoever thank you very much, and signed the letter in her name.- The woman who had been sexually abused in her childhood by a member of the school staff, and grew up to be a member of a school staff herself, and now abused her pupils in the same way.
A sad vicious cycle.- The man who wrote in to share the fantasy of his now late wife, who confessed to him about fantasising about a certain actor.
My Secret Garden was helpful in opening my eyes to female thoughts on fantasy, and more importantly, female thoughts about having them.
Understanding the feminine reaction (guilt, shame, etc) to desire was my main interest in reading this book.
Women are messed up and confused, accepting shame rather than joy; a practice which bleeds into other situations that compromise true happiness.
How can a woman/person make authentic choices when fearful of the reaction of others?
Though there are many rational and healthy basis for fantasy, surely this secret world is composed of lives unlived, too.
A friend here on Goodreads (thanks Petra) reviewed this book today, and one look at the cover, title and author and it all came flashing back.
Some 20+ years ago, but oh yes, I remember it.This is a book of short sexual fantasies of women.
Dirty little short stories.
But at the time I read it, this book was a totally new, exciting, "oh my goodness", experience for me.
I can't say I remember any of the specific stories from the book, but I remember THE BOOK.
I remember the illicitness (at least for me, at the time) of the book.
It was purely research...no, seriously!
I don't remember how I first heard about this book, but I think it was one of the first "erotic" pieces I read.
It's a collection of fantasies submitted by anonymous women, at a time when repression was the norm.
Some of the fantasies are vanilla, some are a bit scary, and some are quite hot.
By the time the author/editor began compiling the later books in this series, women grew bolder in revealing their secret desires, and the later books grow hoter and raunchier, but this is an interesting introduction, and in a way a glimpse into the pre-sexual revolution.
Interesting book. Not shocking to me per say, I can stomach a lot. There's a wide variety of fantasies in this book. From your classic "I want to fuck the post man" to women who want or do, naughty things with their pets. In certain parts, this book just gets downright strange. But, I guess that's the beauty of human fantasy. It's all different and inside a fantasy bubble you can do what you want without being judged. When looked at from a physiological point of view, the book was quite interesting.
I read Nancy Friday's great compilation of interviews with women back when it first debuted and generate the storm of controversy as well as the legion of women who finally knew they were not depraved for having sexual fantasies. It was a great step forward for feminism, and a libidinal feast for a young male with a healthy interest in what turns women on. It's still great reading for men or women interested in that topic.
As a sex therapist I found much of the material in this book matched fantasies I hear about in the office.
In fact, I ended up using one of Friday's informants' fantasies in Chapter 4 of my book, Love Worth Making.
There are so many over-the-top fantasies represented here, that I had the distinct feeling Friday's informants were outdoing each other trying to make their reported fantasies as thrilling as possible.
If you know you're communicating to someone writing a book about sex fantasies, it wouldn't be surprising if that might stimulate you to fantasize in overdrive -- or at least to claim you did!
This 1973 book was groundbreaking for its time but badly needs updating and a better grouning.
Friday seems to have collected the fantasies of a rather small range of women demographically.
Friday wrote she advertised for female fantasies in a magazine and newspaper and collected over 400 of them.
Would Rape Fantasy still be number three decades after the heyday of the bodice-ripper romance?
All that said, a friend of mine interested in gender studies says she'd still be interested in this book because she knows of no more recent or rigorous study on the subject--which rather astonishes me.
A book warped with women's pseudo-psycho sexual weirdness.
A book sooo vastly wrong and repellent to the natural karma of human sexual nature, it makes Fifty Shades read like a Teletubby romp.
Unless, you too, are pseudo-psycho sexually warped you will feel like you need to go straight to church and repent after reading it.
Now let me get this point across clearly.
It is sooo filthy that I wouldn't even tarnish my righteous catholic dignity by going into its content publicly, and it is sooo salaciously smutty that I dared not give it more than three stars because then family and acquaintances might assume I had the audacity to enjoy reading it.
oh but wait, what page was that fantasy on again?Now lets see..
Not finished it yet but here are my thoughts so far:I decided to pick this up as sort of a historical context for the current 50 Shades movie mania.
It's already helped me to clarify my thoughts about 50 Shades.
It's 100% fine for a woman to fantasize about whatever the heck she wants to.
That does not in any way mean she necessarily wants any of those things to happen to her in real life - they are safely in her fantasies.
That's what 50 Shades started as - someone's fantasies about Edward Cullen from Twilight.
Nancy Friday breaks fantasies down into fifteen main rooms: anonymity, audience, rape, pain, domination, terror, the forbidden, transformation, earth mother, incest, animals, big black men, young boys, fetishists, and other women.
Towards the end Friday also includes some women who played out their fantasies, and some who actively engaged in fantasy with their partner.
Friday tends to include her thoughts in between sections, and occasionally when introducing people.
I found her thoughts tended to be writing for the heterosexual female reader, and not necessary for the book.
I think the book would have been more interesting if it was just women's fantasies and chaptered by different themes.
Caitlin Moran mentioned this book in How to Be a Woman, and I was intrigued so went looking for it and found it's available as a free download from the Internet Archive. The fantasies are mostly fun - with a few disturbing exceptions where fantasy and reality overlap. These days its contents aren't all that shocking, but it must have been considered outrageous when it first came out in the 1970s.
This book was groundbreaking in its time, but in a time where any fantasy is explicitly displayed on the internet, it's not as thrilling as it once was. Also, the author gets a little... exuberant about the effect of women's fantasy lives. Healthy fantasy and sex lives are important to an individual and a couple in a relationship. This book could possibly help a woman to feel empowered and unashamed of her own strange fantasies, I just don't think it could possibly have the impact it once did because that ground is already broken.
This book seems a bit dated, I skipped over a lot of the blah blah which was aimed at a female audience newly experiencing the sexual revolution. Nevertheless, some of these women's fantasies still pack a wallop.
I DID NOT and I repeat DID NOT read this, only added it so I could have my Mary Whitehouse shelf, Mucky Muck Muck
