https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28449257-the-wonder
Lib had a dizzying sense that time could fall into itself like the embers.
That in these dim huts nothing had changed since the age of the Druids and nothing ever would.
What was that line in the hymn they’d sung at Lib’s school?
The night is dark, and I am far from home.
I loved this book so much.
I can easily see why it won't be for everyone - truth be told, the plot moves fairly slow - but I was just so engrossed in the story and atmosphere.
I suppose it just depends how much this k
Lib and a nun work shifts to observe the girl - to try to discover if and how she is taking any food, or if she has somehow managed to survive without it.I was completely absorbed into the mystery of what was going on in this quiet, rural Irish village.
I didn't just read this book; I felt it.I absolutely needed to know what was happening.
So, I know a thing or two or more about eating disorders.Yet...from the start - Emma Donoghue had me in the palm of her hands - I never once compared this story to my own or any other modern day eating disorder.
The story Emma invented -with inspired facts- make this book completely different than any book I've ever read about a child refusing to eat.
Emma takes us on a slow easy ride at the start...a little faster in the middle --then speeds the dial towards the end.
My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpr...I've only read one other book by Emma Donoghue but I loved it.
A miracle girl who has apparently survived for four months without eating any food and who according to the local doctor is otherwise healthy.
Libby Wright is an English nurse hired to keep watch over Anna for two weeks, alongside another nurse who happens to be a Nun. Libby as well as many others believe what's happening to be a hoax.
Others believe Anna truly is a miracle girl.
Thank you NetGalley, Brown and Company, and Emma Donoghue for providing an advanced readers copy of this book for me to read in exchange for my honest review.
Emotional, at times disturbing, and tremendously thought-provoking,  The Wonder  once again demonstrates the sheer power of Emma Donoghue's storytelling ability, which first dazzled me with the extraordinary  Room .Lib Wright was a nurse alongside Florence Nightingale during the Crimean War, escaping her own personal issues. But after the war, even for a Nightingale Nurse, life is monotonous; she is treated with disdain by her supervisors and fellow nurses, and is left to little more than menial
Anna and her family have become a sensation throughout Ireland and England, journalists have covered the story with a combination of skepticism and hope, and people have begun to flock from all over the world to spend time with the "wee wonder."Lib, along with a nun who is also a nurse, is hired to watch Anna around the clock, to prove whether Anna's claims are true.
4.5 Stars Spell Binding and so atmospheric, The Wonder is one of the best Irish historical novels I have read in a very long time where facts and fiction come together to create a story that gets under your skin.
This location is approx 20 miles from where I reside and I was eager to see how this historical novel would read for me.An eleven-year-old girl stops eating, but remains miraculously alive and well.
The customs and language and superstitions of the time is so accurately portrayed in this beautiful written tale and while not new to me being Irish and very aware of my heritage I appreciate historical fiction well written and based on facts.

She can’t believe anything about this is right, the village is nothing more than a few haphazardly buildings huddled together, with a whitewashed building up from there, standing out with its pointed roof with a cross aboveThe town seems mired in myth and fairytale; indeed fairies are much to blame for things gone wrong in this strange village, which Lib can’t quite comprehend.
It goes against what she believes in, but as a nurse she’s to follow the doctor’s orders and to not interfere, merely document.
As time goes by, Lib is taken with the girl, and yet still she believes firmly that this child must be being secretly fed.
This review can be found on Amaranthine Reads.A young girl in Ireland has supposedly lived on no food at all for months on end, claiming that she is living off "manna from heaven" and English nurse Lib has been sent over from England to watch her to make sure the claim is valid.
Surrounded by religious superstition, Lib must get to the bottom of the miracle-or stop the destruction of a young girl's life.This book was basically a short story fleshed out with too much inner monologue and chatter about not a lot.
She will alternate this duty with a nursing sister of the same Catholic faith as the family.Extremely atmospheric, I felt the same frustration and desperation as Libby, this is such a vividly told story.
Running up against Irish superstitions, so much she does not understand, and the hard and fast faith of this family and the people who pilgrimage to come see the child.
Anne, herself has secrets, reasons for doing what she is doing and the local doctor should be hanged for being inept.
The blurb from the book says it best: AN IRISH VILLAGE IS MYSTIFIED BY WHAT APPEARS TO BE A MIRACLE BUT MAY ACTUALLY BE MURDER IN THE NEXT MASTERPIECE FROM BESTSELLING AUTHOR EMMA DONOGHUE.EMMA DONOGHUE delivers a well-written atmospheric, unique, interesting, and an extremely captivating story here with well-developed CHARACTERS that had me totally engaged and guessing throughout the slow-building mysterious storyline as the complex pieces of the puzzle are revealed to us which definitely ruffled some of my feathers.To sum it all up it was a thought-provoking, intense, steady-paced, quick and easy read with a wrapped up quite nicely and satisfying ENDING for another enjoyable read.
Born into the religious O’Donnell family, they all rally around the girl and believe her to be thriving by the special providence of the Almighty.
The local Doctor McBrearty residing in the tiny town of Athlone, Ireland knows the family well and is unhappy with the newspapers reports not believing the story by implying it is nothing more than a hoax.
It doesn’t take long for Lib to decide she doesn’t require two weeks to observe Anna but only a night to expose the pitiful swindle and be on her way back to England away from the smells of animal dung and burning peat that greeted her upon her arrival.
''...and besides, we should speak nothing but good of the dead.'' For me, The Wonder was one of the most anticipated novels of the year. It ticked all the right boxes: Ireland, Florence Nightingale's nurses, ambiguous religious issues, provincial superstitions. So, once it knocked on my door, I started reading it immediately.We find ourselves following Lib, a young, educated nurse, trained by the legend called Florence Nightingale, to beautiful, mystical Ireland and on a strange mission, a few
So, once it knocked on my door, I started reading it immediately.We find ourselves following Lib, a young, educated nurse, trained by the legend called Florence Nightingale, to beautiful, mystical Ireland and on a strange mission, a few years after the Crimean War. Lib has to certify as to the truth about Anne, a girl of eleven, who claims to have stopped eating for four months.
The nun is silent and under close scrutiny by Lib. A third character that is interested in the case is Mr. Byrne, a young journalist of The Irish Times, who seems to share Lib's disbelief and cautiousness towards the ''wonder'', despite the fact that he is a Catholic.What draws the readers' attention, initially, is the eternal battle between Science and Religion, Faith against Logic, Hope against Evidence.
"Everybody was a repository of secrets."Emma Donoghue presents the multifaceted story of a young English nurse, Lib Wright, who has been assigned to a remote Irish village.
As a well-trained apprentice of the famous Florence Nightingale, Lib has attended to the needs of many a patient, especially those wracked with wounds and eventual death during the Crimean War.But this patient.....This patient is a frail smidge of an eleven year old lass who has not taken food in four months according to her family and the village doctor.
A well-played hoax or a miracle in the making?The tension escalates as Lib befriends a young male journalist from Dublin who wishes to engage in conversations about this "Fasting Girl".
I am not sure that I have a great way to explain it other than it is a “feeling” I have.I actually probably felt more comfortable with the writing in this one than I did with Room and Frog Music and I found myself into the plot much sooner than I did with both of those.
Now, I know it is sometimes the point of the story to make you feel this way, but it is almost like it surpassed that and made me feel just wrong.As someone pointed out, though, what might feel uncomfortable now might turn out to be thought provoking and might cause me to reflect a lot on it in the future.
Lib is educated and harshly skeptical, believing she will unlock the mystery quickly to expose a ruse.
In fact, none of the characters are what I expected.
There was a subtle creepiness about it all that kept me turning pages with the building tension.There were also morsels hard for me to swallow, e.g. I accept, miracle or not, that someone can go without food for a long time, yet though Anna appears healthy, under observation she only drinks 2 or 3 teaspoons of water per day.
It all unfolds in just under 2 weeks.Like Lib, I am often skeptical.
Lib, a nurse who worked during the war as one the ‘nightingales’ is commissioned to travel to Ireland to care for eleven year old Anna, who has not eaten for four months.
Lib is to stay with the child and make sure no one is passing her food on the sly and of course to observe her health and care for her as much as is allowed.
As time passes, Lib learns the dynamics of this small community, its legends and superstitions, as well as the family’s belief system which is deeply religious.
Eleven-year-old Anna O' Donnell insists that she's been living off the manna of heaven for the last four months and no longer needs food to survive.
She admonishes one character for telling Anna a "lurid" religious tale, but she discovers that she had greatly misinterpreted the situation: “I don’t think you understand our stories, ma’am.” “Do you know what indelible means?” [Lib]“A stain that won’t come off.” [Anna]The mystery of the girl is intriguing, but there's also an interesting historical context.
The characters that Lib encounters were affected by the Irish famine, which ended seven years before Anna's fasting began.
I seem to be on a 'Meh' roll these days...The beginning started out promising, the last 30 pages were fantastic, but the in between was really slow and boring.Trained by Florence Nightingale, Nurse Libby is requested to stand 'watch' over a child who has apparently not eaten a thing in 4 months, yet remains alive and vibrant.
Through her time spent with the family, priest and other 'gawkers' who come to see this special child, she soon finds that there is no one who has Abby's best interests at heart.
Anna O'Donnell has supposedly not eaten for four months when Lib Wright is brought on as a nurse to monitor whether she is actually taking nourishment somehow.
Is she truly a religious miracle or is she “hysterical” as one doctor supposes?
You quickly get caught up in trying to determine this young girl’s situation.
And as Lib’s concerns go from trying to catch her out to worrying about her health, so did my concerns shift.
Why don’t they force Anna to eat?
You'll want to talk to others about this book!
Emma Donoghue is so talented in immersing her readers.Anna O’Donnell is an 11-year-old girl living in Ireland in the 1830’s.
Religion plays an important presence in this story.A local committee has hired Lib Wright, an English nurse trained by Florence Nightingale during the Crimean War, along with a Catholic nun, to watch Anna around the clock for two weeks to see if they can catch the girl sneaking food.
During that time I was totally engrossed in this story and the characters.Many thanks to Little, Brown and Company, NetGalley and to author Emma Donoghue for providing me with an advanced copy for reading and review.
It burns gently, but Donoghue has captured something with so much life, even in the face of a character's possible death, that you won't want to put it down.
Though it took a while for me to be convinced, by the midway point I was invested in Lib and Anna's relationship, concerned over the inevitable outcome of the story (though I wasn't sure what that outcome might be), and positively impressed by Donoghue's attention to detail.
You can tell the author loves her characters and story in a way one doesn't find too often.Needless to say, I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
Needless to say, Lib is beyond skeptical about her young charge.Visitors from around the world have flocked to see young Anna, as they believe that she is a miracle child who can cure ailments.
Her doctor believes that if it can be proven that Anna doesn’t need to eat then others would no longer need food to exist.
As Anna’s health begins to deteriorate, Lib moves from questioning the girl’s motives to trying to save her life.Donoghue weaves in elements of religion and mysticism in this story, as well as plays off of the tension between the English and Irish.
Deep in the heart of Ireland, villagers claim to be in the midst of a miracle.
Pilgrims come in droves to see the devout girl, paying their alms (which fatten the coffers of the local parish).
To substantiate the claims, men from the town choose two women to keep watch over Anna 24 hours a day for 2 weeks to see if she is taking in any food, and to monitor her health.
One woman is a local nun, the other -- Lib Wright -- a nurse from England who worked alongside Florence Nightingale in the Crimean War.Wright arrives to a country so different from her own she feels as though she has traveled back in time.
Short Review Summary: Lots of boredom, very little wonder.
It took too long for Lib (and the reader) to meet Anna.
When I first read the summary for this book I couldn't wait to see what Anna would be like.
Well it took too long to get there for me and it was a little boring in the parts before she met Anna.
Not only that, but I felt zero connection between Lib and Anna.
:x Despite hating the ending, I was curious what would happen next and that gave me a little motivation to finish the book.
Lib Wright, an English nurse, has been hired to observe the strange case of Anna O'Donnell.
But strong opposition from the O'Donnell family and the girl's rapidly deteriorating condition make this task an incredibly challenging one.I initially found Lib a tough character to warm to.
They make a compelling duo - a determined, resourceful nurse and an intelligent but troubled young girl.Donoghue returns to the formula that has served her best: a woman and child in a confined space, battling against overwhelming odds.
Donoghue's skills lie in the convincing period detail and the depiction of the strong, captivating bond between Lib and Anna.
Σκοπός της παρακολούθησης είναι η αποκάλυψη της αλήθειας, έτσι ώστε, αν όντως πρόκειται για αληθινό θαύμα, η τρωθείσα τιμή της κομητείας να αποκατασταθεί (δεν ήταν λίγοι εκείνοι που ήδη κατηγορούσαν τους Ο’ Ντόνελ για απάτη και το σύνολο της κοινότητας για ευπιστία και άγνοια), κι αν όχι, τότε γαία πυρί μειχθήτω, κι ας παραδοθούν οι αυτουργοί της κακόγουστης αυτής φάρσας στη χλεύη των εύπιστων εκείνων χωρικών που, έστω για λίγο, πιστέψαν ότι η Άννα έχει πράγματι την χάρη του Θεού.
Δεν ήταν παρά μόνο ένα κοριτσάκι που δεν είχε ανάγκη να τραφεί».Η Λιμπ, κεντρικό πρόσωπο του μυθιστορήματος της Donoghue, είναι επιφυλακτική έναντι της αδελφής Μιχαήλ και εξαιρετικά δύσπιστη σε οτιδήποτε αντίκειται στον ορθό λόγο.
The Wonder, however, bore my hopes steadfastly throughout my reading experience and assured me that Donoghue’s beautiful prose are here to stay.The story is set in 1850’s Ireland and follows our protagonist Libby, an Englishwoman unfamiliar with rural Ireland.
There was a lot of sympathy passing round in fact, for both Libby and Anna, and I gradually grew more and more attached to both characters.Everything about this novel felt like a slow but steady process: of building feelings; of developing new queries and of uncovering secrets.
Her days and nights spent in Anna's tiny room allow plenty of time for examining not just the girl's life, but Lib's own.How could the child bear not just the hunger, but the boredom?
For Anna, during this watch, each day had to pass like one endless moment.I really enjoyed this one, though I expect the story might be too plodding for some; reading about a character watching over a sleeping child can occasionally be as thrilling as watching paint dry.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/3.5 Stars “Good nurses follow the rules, but the best know when to break them.” In a small Irish village, a modern day miracle is occurring . . .  Unfortunately, not one quite as impressive as Cheeto Jesus, but still something worth talking about. According to her family and all casual observers young Anna O’Donnell has not had even a bite to eat for the past four months. Lib Wright has taken on an assignment as Anna’s nurse, but upon
In order to prove to the world that the Lord is truly working through young Anna, Lib (as well as a nun) will take round-the-clock shifts observing Anna’s every move in order to declare, without question, the child does not eat.
If you have read this (or don’t plan on ever reading it) and would like to talk some spoilsies I will gladly partake in the comment section below (as long as you do it under the appropriate spoiler tags) and explain how my idea of what was going down was kind of on the right track, but ended up being on a different train.Having now read both Room as well as The Wonder I can officially say this about Emma Donoghue .
The novel draws on about 50 historical cases of “Fasting Girls” that occurred in Europe and North America in the 16th to 20th centuries.
It sets up a particularly effective contrast between medicine and superstition, that “fug of the ineffable” that so troubles Lib. Donoghue writes convincing and vivid historical fiction, peppering the text with small details about everything from literature to technology.This is the fifth book I’ve read from her, and it’s by far my favorite.
With the two-week time limit and the fact that most scenes take place in the cabin – with just a handful set in other village locales like the bog and the pub where Lib stays – this has something of the flavor of a locked-room mystery.
