https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/641604.Purple_Cow
He's saying there is no "right" way or easy answer.
I find myself falling into that sometimes as well, though I try to find the people in the middle, because I know what it's like.
And that's what people want.What I found most helpful about this book is the examples he gives of successful companies, why they became successful, how they've stayed successful and why some of them are no longer successful.
Who wants to be sold crappy products with great advertising?Bottom line, if you're in business for yourself, or if you are an influential person in your company, this is a good book to read.
Now I know that making my business a purple cow is important. It's critical. My future and the future of the world depends on it. Nothing matters more. I get it.Unfortunately, I have no idea how.And that in a nutshell, is this book's problem. It keeps telling you "be excellent and be memorable" in so many different ways. I could have figured that out myself. Without a step-by-step plan customized to my particular situation that tells me *how* I can be excellent and unique, merely telling me to be a purple cow is pointless.
This book is really a Purple Cow :) !In a "remarkable" way, Seth sending a message that: if you don't convert your business into a Purple Cow (being Remarkable), most probably you'll not succeed.He clarifies how the world of business have changed & how marketing of old days doesn't work anymore.A LOT of good advices with evidence and study cases in this book.I totally recommend it for people interested in business, sales and marketing.
با خوندن 30 صفحه از کتاب میفهمی که قضیه چیه و بقیه کتاب تکرار مکررات و مثالها ی متنوعهبه این نتیجه رسیدم که ست گادین مرد نوشته های کوتاه و کتابهای خیلی کوچکه و اگر بخواهد کتابی را عمیق تر وطولانی تر بنویسد حوصله سر بر استدر حد 2 ستاره خوب بود-----------------نظر یکی از خوانندگان که واقعا نظرم من هم بودNow I know that making my business a purple cow is important.
Without a step-by-step plan customized to my particular situation that tells me *how* I can be excellent and unique, merely telling me to be a purple cow is pointless ....
An unremarkable and dated book. A quick read, but I don't feel like I came away from this book with anything.Let me summerize the book in a few sentences:MARKETING IS WRONG, ADVERTISEMENTS ARE DYING.FOR STUFF TO SELL IT HAS TO BE AWESOME.IF YOUR STUFF IS AWESOME AND IT SELLS DONT SAVE ALL THAT MONEY, SPEND IT ON MAKING SOMETHING MORE AWESOME.YOU WILL FAIL.KEEP TRYING.Which is all fine and dandy, but I'm not entirely sure who the hell this book is supposed to help.
Like all the other marketing business books I have read this summer I read the material through the lens of education.
Reading this book about being a purple cow made me think even more about how teachers brand themselves.
You want your own children to have teachers who go above and beyond so make sure you do the same.Teachers today have to connect with students.
Not only do we have to stand out among the buzz of society, but even among the teachers in the building we teach in.I cannot help but think of several years ago when I was one of four teachers in the district who received a SMARTboard.
A very interesting book, but what was more interesting to me was the fact that I was enjoying listening to a marketing book of all things. If you had told me a few years go that I’d actively seek audiobooks on marketing, I’d have thought poorly of your divination skills :-)

Purple Cow tells how the traditional 4-Ps of marketing is lacking to move consumers in current day's media noisy market place.
Marketing Guru and author, Seth Godin defines a new ' P ' that stands for 'PURPLE COW'.
He coined the term PURPLE COW to mean a product or service having achieve huge differentiation, innovative and scores high on wow factor.
On this point, Seth describes that the PURPLE COW will first attract the early adopters who will then take it through into the masses.
He reasons the madness in spending in mass advertising is instead better spent in creating a much better product which will turns promotes / sells itself.
He knew that more and more people were demanding transparency, that they no longer listened the outbound advertising strategies that dominated marketing budgets in the second half of the twentieth century.
Ten years ago, Godin's understanding was leap and bounds beyond the majority of marketers today.Today, people want information.
It's about having a remarkable product and informing people about you, your industry, and your competitors.
If you have a truly remarkable product, people will find and choose you naturally.
If you don't, then you'd better get back to the drawing board because no amount of marketing dollars will help.Can't wait to see what Godin has accomplished in ten years...
The strategy of the purple cow preaches the need to be a leader; the need to make your innovations the marketing strategy itself; and the need to pursue the right customers (going after people who are ahead of the curb and will bring your product to the majority, not targeting the majority who are resistant to change).It talks about failed strategies, like following the leader, because change is always happening and when the landscape shifts you won't be in a position to succeed because you have no background with original thought, just imitation.
Know your ideal target, even if you can just narrow it down to one person, and build a product for them, because even though we want to believe our tastes are unique, they aren't.
Seth Godin’s book “Purple Cow” is still as much fun as it was when I read it first.
And with that Godin proves the his “Purple Cow” is a purple cow in itself.
Marketing books are supposed to talk about campaigns, analyze data, show proven ways.
- - Nobody wants to talk about anything that’s unremarkable.”I love this book.
– 5 stars.PS: I still believe as I have believed since this book got published that Godin came up with the the name of this book when he (probably) discovered Milka chocolate in his famous trip to Europe.
Clearly it was a purple cow to name his book after that.
main idea is to make your product remarkable (purple cow). do not compete by features.
The central theme of the book is that you need to target the front of that curve by appealing your "remarkable" product to them as a niche, and treat them very specially.Contrary to the most popular review here (quite negative) calling this book an unnecessarily expanded essay, I would argue that Godin covers a lot of ground in a concise 137 pages.
This book is required reading for anyone looking to start a business.The most resonating take-away is that marketing has worked its way to the front phases of product development.
Purple Cow is rare in that while being concise, you don't feel ripped off by the brevity of the book.
Instead I came away appreciating that Godin could get to the point quickly and back up his ideas with quick case studies.
This book gave me a lot of ideas and spurred conversation with my partner about ideas we should implement in our small business.You don't have to be a marketer to appreciate or learn something from this book, but I do think business owners who sell a tangible product may come away with more useful info than people that sell service-based or one-off projects.
Godin is right on the money with trying to get people to change the way they think about business and marketing.
If you really want your business to thrive, you must discover your own Purple Cow, or better yet, create your own Purple Cow.Again, it is a simple book, and one that can be read short segments at a time or right through.
Once again, the best thing about this book is that it stimulates thought on how to better be remarkable and market in this different time.Read this book to be motivated to become remarkable!
Отсюда и название данной книги.Годин предлагает сделать вашим конкурентным преимуществом яркое выделение среди множества ваших конкурентов.
Среди них не только компании корпорации и крупный бизнес, но также и средний и мелкий.Вообще все советы автора вполне универсальны и уверен их можно использовать даже в бизнесе таких компаний как металлургические, нефтедобывающие и многие другие со схожих компаний тяжелого дивизиона.
Но особенно книга будет полезна для малого бизнеса и компаний которые только родились.
Если применить советы автора, то они вполне могут подорвать бизнес устоявшихся на рынке их конкурентов и даже оторвать свой кусок рыночной ниши.Читайте, применяйте главное будьте запоминающимся!
I read it first 12-14 years ago. It was a blast! Unfortunately, it did not age too well. Even though key messages are still valid - the case study examples no longer reflect the world out there :)If you fancy yourself little Seth Godin - go for All Marketers Are Liars: The Power of Telling Authentic Stories in a Low-Trust World instead or The Dip: A Little Book That Teaches You When to Quit
I listened to Purple Cow's audio book read by the author. While much of the content may have proven fresh in 2003, the book feels dated to read at this time and age. That is the content is true and relatable, but you may have read or heard about it a dozen times already in a more contemporary light.The message of the book is summerized by the author as per the following:1. Don't be boring2. Safe is risky3. Design rukes now4. Very good is bad
However, the impact of television commercials faded since then, along with radios, newspapers, and magazines ads.The author believes that the only way you can sell products today is to market to the consumer who is looking for a product to solve one of more problems.
Bottom line is that companies needing to remain profitable in the future must be both innovative and remarkable, not only today but in the future.I enjoyed reading this book, learning some about people’s buying decisions, and believe others will too.
Because customers don't care about you and they won't have to buy your product.So the author Seth Godin says your product should be remarkable and you should target the early adopters.
People might see but they won't buy or try your product.
But if you targeted to specific people who try your product initially they are very important.
Those people will buy your product only if is remarkable because now a days market have so many similar products with different prices.
Also author giving so many real time examples of how the different companies tried their remarkable or uniqueness in their product.
بحكيلك أن أي بقرة لونها أسود وأبيض ممكن تشوفها ما رح تلفت انتباهك، لأنها شيء عادي، واعتيادي، ومما اعتاد الناس على رؤيته، وما فيها شيء يُميزها ..
ولكن عندما ترى بقرة لونها بنفسجي؟ ستترك أثرها ليبقى مخلداً عندك طيلة حياتك، مما سيجعلها شيء remarkable ..
غير تقيليدي، ما فيه منه!الكتاب كُتب في الـ Business، والإسقاط الأساسي للفكرة يكون على الـ Products الريادية ..
وكيف تعمل product يكون remarkable ..
ولكن لو كان فريداً من نوعه، سينتشر لوحده بدون تسويق ..أنتٓ خد هاي الفكرة الأساسية وطبقها ع شغلات تانية ..
I'd probably give this 3.5 stars.
Good business book, some wonderful points, and definite food for thought for any entrepreneur.
Main idea: Even being a "very good" business is bad - businesses/products have to be REMARKABLE to succeed.
My main complaint is that in the author's attempt to drive key points home there were parts of the book that just felt like they were going in circles.
The whole book could probably be condensed to about 5-10 solid pages (a long essay?) and have made the same amount of sense/impact.
In the end, I'm glad I read it, but I wouldn't say it changed my life or anything.
What you do needs to be unique to garner attention.
The old ways of marketing no longer work because people aren't paying attention anymore.Marketing is now something that is built into the product not slapped on afterward.Just remember that a purple cow is not any better than a brown one.
It's just purple.Quotes:"My goal in Purple Cow is to make it clear that it's safer to be risky - to fortify your desire to do truly amazing things.
Once you see that the old ways have nowhere to go but down, it becomes even more imperative to create things worth talking about."
كتاب في منتهى الروعة يتحدث عن كيفية جذب انتباه الناس تجاه منتجك أو خدمتكقد يخيل لك للوهلة الأولى ان الكتاب يتحدث عن التسويقلكنه ليس كذلكفهو يتحدث عن طرق تحسين المنتج ليكون ملفتا للانتباه، وعندها سيقوم المنتج نفسه بتسويق نفسهفي الكتاب الكثير من الطرق والوسائل الابداعية المفيدة للتطبيق في مختلف مناحي الحياة
A nicely written book with some interesting examples but nothing that we don't already know.
THE marketing book out there, I think. Main message is that in order to win clients and enjoy success, you have to be extraordinary, different and most of all remarkable.
Seth Godin es un adelantado. Hoy en día todavía existen empresas que apuestan por la publicidad de masas poco efectiva, cuando desde el 2002 Godin le ha “gritado” al mundo que esta publicidad caducó y que lo mejor es ser extraordinario e intentar siempre ser recordado por alguna característica única en tu producto o servicio.Está característica puede estar en tu precio, empaque, presentación, tamaño, olor, sabor, lo que sea!Los productos que sirven para todo el mundo ya están inventados, es nuestro turno de dibujar nuevos límites y dejar una verdadera marca en el mercado.Debemos ser, la Vaca Púrpura.
Seth Godin argumentuje proč je důležité mít zajímavý produkt a konkurovat formou “být jiný”. Bohužel knížka je už staršího data a moc zajímavých informací jsem v ní nenašla. Možná ve své době to byla pecka, v dnešní optice tak 2 hvězdy.
If one tries hard, they can list the following thoughts scattered across the book and presented as something original which in reality makes part of any basic course in marketing: - marketing is not about advertising;- marketing is about creating value;- the value is created by discovering and meeting a real need and a real demand at the market;- the most successful enterprises meet the demand in a remarkable way, that is in a way that is irresistible for the target niche;- the more original and irresistible the offering is the better;- It is more beneficial to focus on a narrow niche than trying to be a product for everybody (i.e. nobody).
