https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25852870-eligible
The book uses black and transgender identity in an attempt to shore up its "modern" edginess and does zero work at treating the black or trans characters as three-dimensional human beings.
Is that progressive?!" The trans character is drawn as duplicitous and Mrs. Bennet, described by the author throughout the book as "a racist," is also transphobic.
Characters go out of their way to enable and accommodate Mrs. Bennet's prejudices, coming up with truly appalling "explanations" of what it means to be trans (Darcy tells her it's a birth defect, no different than a cleft palate.
It is filled with wit and dry humor, a rare thing these days.This book is a lot more obvious, and rather louder in its humor than the original, which is to be expected, considering the times.
They were all expensively educated, and besides Jane and Liz, most are doing absolutely nothing with their lives, unless you consider Crossfit lessons a lifelong calling (I say that in jest, although if you ask a Crossfitter, I'm sure they'll actually agree).
In this book, Darcy is a neurosurgeon, and our first impression of him ain't that great.
It's a little ridiculous how well done this rebelling of pride and prejudice is. So sharp and clever. The Bennetts are wholly annoying but well drawn characters. The book is faithful to the source in the necessary ways but also fresh in surprising ways. Really liked how Darcy and Liz's relationship evolved. Took a while to get into the book but once I was hooked I finished it in one setting.
Wow, this is garbage from page 1.
While dazzling-fun, and gorgeously written, Curtis Sittenfeld explores important problems of family, work, friendships, couples, passion, marriage, secrets, feminism, body issues, food, ...and how to best lead the life that you think you're meant to live.....in the twenty-first century.
Easy for me to say..I didn't have to live with Sally's shopping addiction, her racist thinking, or concern myself with the things she found to be of such value in life.
Mary, (middle sister), and Lydia and Kitty ( the two younger sisters) live at home in Cincinnati with their parents in their Tudor house in Hyde Park.
Most Jane Austen fan fiction is mediocre, and I was braced for Curtis Sittenfeld's book to be bad.
Liz's older sister, Jane, has a crush on doctor Chip Bingley, and there are some modern turns with that romance.I suggest avoiding spoiler alerts on this book, because it was nice to see how the new plot details unfolded.
Recommended for readers who like modern romance and Jane Austen adaptations.Cheers to Sittenfeld for pulling this off!
I think it helps that I enjoyed it more for being a modern romance, rather than expecting a traditional Jane Austen work.
About a third of a way into "Eligible", I was pursing my lips in disapproval, tch-tch-ing internally at the writer's palpable failure to recreate even a smidgen of the magical Elizabeth-Darcy sexual tension that has sort of become a benchmark for the portrayal of sexual sizzle between a romance novel hero and heroine, when Sittenfeld turned things around quite dramatically.
Had Sittenfeld done a better job on Elizabeth, the Liz-Darcy romance and trimmed the length by 200 or so pages I might have awarded this another star.
”My dear,” said Mr. Bennett, “if a sock puppet with a trust fund and a Harvard medical degree moved here, you’d think he was meant to marry one of our girls.” It is a truth universally acknowledged that, like the works of William Shakespeare and Bill Finger, some stories demand reinterpretation every generation or so. Using the ancient structures provides a framework within which the re-inventor can bring to the older foundations and i-beams some more contemporary facades. The one that stands o
Instead of a lord of a manor, the contemporary tall, dark, and snotty Fitzwilliam Darcy is presented as a sort of ideal man, physically sculpted, disgustingly well-off, professionally accomplished, and let’s not pretend this is a spoiler, he turns out to be a pretty decent guy.
So I suppose her choice of settings was either based on wanting to dis or celebrate her place of origin (particularly a favorite eatery) or maybe her familiarity offered her the advantage of bringing in a lot of local touch and feel.
Here’s Liz after a bit of online research: “she knew to be embarrassed for having asked Mary if [the transgender character] had a fake penis; it was, apparently, no less rude to speculate about the genitals of a transgender person than about those of a person who was nontransgender, or cisgender.”Yet however uninspired the observations of modern life, Sittenfeld never misses an opportunity to remind us that it’s 2013!
Her romance with Darcy is as uninspired as Liz herself; the book spends far more time on selling the Bennet home than on developing their interactions, and it’s hard to see any chemistry or much reason to root for this couple.
The books is divided into three parts and dozens and dozens on teeny tiny chapters which I found completely unnecessary and tedious.
The only positives: the reality tv storyline and Jane was still likable*******Warning: Spoilers: The main characters first being "f*!k buddies" and then later having "hate sex" not to mention a married Wickham having an over decade-long affair with a pathetic Elizabeth Bennett completely ruined the novel.
On its own, as a fiction romance novel, it could possibly work except for the extended length of the book.
If you are a true Jane Austen fan, you will not enjoy this novel.
It was funny, everyone seemed to be a little whackado at times, well pretty much the same people in the real book, but I digress!
Seriously, people are saying it's like a version of Bachelor and all of that but I only ever watched the Brett Michaels reality love show, but it's the same thing.
I think they were in Ohio at the time, yeah because Jane and Liz came home from New York to look after their father (Mr. Bennet) after he had a heart attack and broke his arm.
Liz loathes Darcy because she over hears him say some nasty things about her.
And as always, Liz and Darcy fall in love!
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/A modern-day retelling of Pride and Prejudice, you say????? Well . . . .  Quick confessional: I may have just a weeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee bit of a P&P addiction. I meant to take a shelfie, but . . . well, stupid and also I stayed up way past my old lady bedtime last night finishing this so I forgot. Anywho, I have a habit of buying multiple copies of the same book, but usually it’s by accident. With P&P it’s truly a sickness. I
That’s no deterrent for Mrs. Bennett, however, as she quickly sets her sights on getting one of her two oldest girls, Jane or Liz, to the alter with the young doctor post haste.
As per the original, things go swimmingly between Jane and her new beau, but not so great for Liz and Chip’s bestie for the restie, Fitzwilliam Darcy .
Much like the original, I still found this to be true of Mrs. Bennett .
I’ve read a lot of books in my day and Mrs. Bennett remains one of my most hated characters.
You’re not beautiful and you aren’t nearly as funny as you think you are.
Chick-lit isn't my preferred genre to start with, and usually, anything on a list like that turns out to be a miss for me, so I try to go into those sorts of books with the idea that it probably won't end up being a favorite.
I ended up rolling my eyes by the middle of the book because it started to feel like the author was just trying to see how many Dr. Phil episodes she could pack into one story.But then I took a step back and thought...maybe that's just the landscape we live in and it should be crammed in?
Some will love it, because it made the read feel that it was moving along faster—helpful when you’re holding almost 500 pages of what is essentially light-read chick lit in your hand—but for those of you who want to be profoundly engrossed and deeply invested in your characters, you may find this to be a bother.
At times I found it to be slightly annoying; sometimes I loved it because it seemed to make the read feel lightning fast, and sometimes it made me feel disconnected from the characters and their world because there wasn’t enough there in the chapter to pull me in.
I didn’t care for or respect any of the characters, maybe with the exception of Jane.
Didn’t care for the situation they were in when I stopped reading.
Oh, and they had a toddler when Liz and Jasper finally got together!
I’m sorry, Liz, but you brushing your hair away before Jasper could do it all those years ago didn’t foil your meant-to-be relationship!
Had Liz been a likable character or one that I could relate to in any way I might have enjoyed this story even with the abundance of hateful people.
Rewrites like this are always a worry because sometimes terrible liberties are taken with the original.
However I found Eligible to be everything it should be!To enjoy it fully you really need to have read the original several times.
I have not read anything by Curtis Sittenfeld before but she has a really light touch and a great sense of humour just as Austen herself had.
For this reason Sittenfeld's characters came to life in exactly the same way they did in the original.
I laughed my way through it.
Very well done Ms Sittenfeld and I will be reading more of your work as soon as possible!
The best thing I can say about Eligible is that I would have loved it even if it had nothing to do with Pride and Prejudice.
The second best thing I can say about Eligible is that it is a head-spinningly good adaptation.
The writing is sharp, and the characters are refreshingly complicated.
Yes. Was Lydia (mostly) horrible?
Yes. Was Mary secretly the best?
ALSO YES.
Reading Eligible was like meeting a friend you haven't seen in a while--let's say in 200 years--and realizing they are still the same warm, smart, funny, wonderful person underneath their new haircut.
I wasn't sure how this would work, but I thought Sittenfeld did a really nice job incorporating the show and reality TV culture into the P&P plot: Caroline Bingley is now trying to use her brother to advance her own career and thrust him into spin-offs and reunions to build his brand.- Mr. Bennet  - while not quite as smart or as generous or even as good a father as the original Mr. Bennet, this updated version gets most of the best one and two liners in the novel, and his sarcasm, wit, and general unconcern for the feelings of his wife and others made him a nice, scene-stealing character in this update.
I didn't want to give this book a star but since I can't write a review without giving a star...I just don’t think this book and I were compatible.
Maybe Fiction-Romance (Chicklit) of these days are like this but I’ll not excuse the author of certain things that goes beyond the compatibility.
This is 500 pages long but there are a lot of blank spaces.•	Where is the tension -> romance?I can go on but I'm not going to give any more time to this book then what I've already given.
I'm going to go into my happy place and re-watch the movie version of Pride & Prejudice from 2005.
It has a lot going for it, though as the last third drew closer, this is where I paused because it wasn’t quite working for me.It finishes with a flourish (view spoiler)[ after the requisite ending, there is a superlative flash fiction piece about Mary being aro/ace and utterly content that adds fun to the preceding madness (hide spoiler)] and as a novel it made me smile, but as an updated P&P it didn’t quite work.I had to take a couple of days to figure out why.Every reader perceives a different Pride and Prejudice.
I love Pride and Prejudice but I'm no purist, and I'm a big fan of Curtis Sittenfeld, so Eligible should have been an obvious slam dunk for me.
While I was reading and enjoying it yesterday, it occurred to me that the time Sittenfeld spent writing this update was time she wasn't able to spend working on a brand-new original novel straight from her own imagination, and now it will probably be at least another couple of years until that novel arrives.
She certainly did not even come close as the modern alterego of our beloved Elizabeth Bennet, but even as some regular, run-of-the-mill heroine of a chick-lit book, she was hard to relate to.
She was bland and meh without any sex-apeal, sass or feistyness and her relationship with Jasper Wick (yep, Wickham) I found simply revolting as well as it being the evidence of Liz's infinite stupidity (view spoiler)["Letting yourself be lead on by a man like him for a while, I understand.
“It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.”  ----Jane AustenCurtis Sittenfeld, an American bestselling author, pens an enticing and modern version of Jane Austen's novel, Pride and Prejudice in her retelling book, Eligible that weaves the portrait of the upper-class and an affluent family in the society, among whom the mother of the family with the onset of her eldest daughter's fast approaching fortieth birthday decides to play the match maker for the her five unmarried daughters with the most eligible and rich man in Cincinnati.Synopsis: A Modern Retelling of Pride and PrejudiceThis version of the Bennet family—and Mr. Darcy—is one that you have and haven’t met before: Liz is a magazine writer in her late thirties who, like her yoga instructor older sister, Jane, lives in New York City.
The only reason I (desperately) wanted to read Eligible was for Curtis Sittenfeld, because I have loved every book she's ever written and I would follow her anywhere.
Liz is a protagonist you root for and the secondary characters are all fairly developed and refreshingly free of clichés.Very lucky to receive this one from Netgalley - even if it means I will now have to wait even longer for Curtis Sittenfeld's next one.
I'd heard about the Austen Project (modern retellings of Jane Austen's masterpieces by famous modern writers) & heard that while the earlier books were disappointing, this one was pretty good.The earlier books must have been diabolical!There were things that were handled well.
I get that the older sisters have to lived elsewhere not to have noticed how bad things were at the Tudor (their family home & I still think it should have been The Tudor) but couldn't they have lived in another less expensive city rather than New York?
I'm just hoping she doesn't usually work with "chapters"like this.
2.5★Well, hmm.
I drank 2 glasses of Granache Blanc as I finished this up.
I was thinking I was too Mary-like in my response to this novel and it might help me be more Lydia-like.
Perhaps if I had imbibed the entire way."Far be it from me, my dear sister, to depreciate such pleasures.
I should infinitely prefer a book." —Mary to her sister Lydia in Pride and Prejudice.Me too Mary, but not this one.
My plan did not work but I'm sure liking this wine.
☺︎The author is a talented writer and I would still like to check out one of her other books.
I'm not sure I've ever laughed so much while reading a book.So, the plot: five sisters who grew up together in Cincinnati are reunited there again to support their parents when their father is recovering from heart surgery.
The social dynamics within the household and with various suitors is hilarious.
The sexual tension that develops between Liz (the 37-year old sister) and Fitzwilliam Darcy becomes a thread winding it's way through the book to it's conclusion.It is a hugely fun read that I would recommend to anyone who enjoys romantic comedy!
I read this book for my hometown book club and I really enjoyed it! This is a modern take on Pride and Prejudice, but I have never read the classic version. Still, I enjoyed this book fully. I encourage reading this book even if you haven’t read the classic novel. Parts of the book were hilarious and the couples and dating were funny too!I truly enjoyed this book; a solid 4 stars!!P.s. This book was also my E book for the A-Z book title challenge :)
I love how clever this novel is at changing the dreaded spinister age of the eldest Bennet sisters to modern day standards (over 35), giving Mrs Bennet a shopping addiction, having Lydia's outrageous suitor (at least in her parent's eyes) be (view spoiler)[transgender (hide spoiler)], having Chip (Jane's suitor) be a recent contestant on a Bachelor type show called Eligible, Jane's attempts with IVF, and having Jasper's (Eliza's love interest before our beloved Mr Darcy) horrific scandal be about (view spoiler)[ his expulsion from Princeton after urinating on his African American Teacher's desk while drunk because she gave him a poor grade on a tasteless, misogynistic and racist paper.
The fact is that I loved Pride and Prejudice and I hated what this book did to that wonderful story.
I only got about 30% of the way through this book before I had to stop but what I did read involved way too many mentions of Reality TV and Crossfit.(view spoiler)[ I didn't enjoy the storyline of the affair between Jasper and Liz, I was confused and horrified by the random inclusion of Mrs. Bennet's anti-semitism, and the unexpected pregnancy storyline (which I usually actually like) didn't even appeal to me.
(hide spoiler)]After reading several other reviews that went into other storylines that the author introduces I felt like I should put the book down before it got worse.
