https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/825473.The_Devil_s_Alternative
Moreover, there are so many things happening in the novel that involve several nations with multiple possible outcomes, that the author keeps you guessing till the end -- the fun is not in predicting what's going to happen and getting it correct, but rather getting it wrong!
which might bore the reader, and make him/her want to turn the pages not because the story is going good, but to get to more interesting parts of the story quickly.All in all, this is an excellent read, and I'd highly recommend it to aficionados of (political) thrillers.
You know you have a master piece in your hand when you read this book.
Although the plot does not unravel until the last two paragraphs of the last page, Mr. Forsyth exhibits his skill and mastery in weaving you into a deception that when the truth dawns on you it is like having ice cold water thrown at your face when you were deep asleep.
This is so good, I cannot begin to explain and point out the favorite sub-plots; the whole book is full of it.
I loved this book.
An example of what an action thriller should be.
Although a dated novel (first published in 1979), this is still an enjoyable read for Forsyth fans. About the aversion of global war via deft manipulation by players - leaders, bureaucrats, spies - of the then world's political powerhouses of USA, Russia and Britain. Engaging diplomatic and political suspense. Classic Forsyth.
Probably the best of Forsythe's novels, although The Fourth Protocol is perhaps its equal. It incorporates all of the author's best qualities: a compelling plot with some unexpected twists, seemingly unrealated characters with intersecting story lines and thoroughly researched real-world context.
A political thriller novel of global events set during the last decade of the cold war.The book starts by highlighting an agricultural disaster that has happened in USSR (fictional, obviously) and their plans to remedy the situation.
From there, the story is set in real time, more or less.This is my second Frederick Forsyth book.
I was expecting a good world building and interesting details that mixes fact and fiction to provide a smooth flow of a story, and I was not disappointed.
Once the stakes are established, second half is the hostage situation with global consequences told in real time.
About four different story-lines start independently in the book and converge logically in the plot's climax.Forsyth's fascinating research into history and geography, weaponry, diplomacy and espionage, make his books not only fictional thrillers but loaded with sufficient true facts to also make them textbooks.
Also, the tendency of some other equally well-researched writers to delve into factual details can be irritating in drawing the reader away from the momentum of the story, but I found Forsyth to maintain that delicate balance quite well.To conclude, I would rate this as one of Forsyth's best books, and one of the better thrillers I've read in quite some time.
This one started out reading more as a Tom Clancy-style thriller than the other Forsyth books I've read. All "Soviet-Union-plans-to-overthrow-the-West-using-brute-force-and-only-one-spy-can-stop-him!" sort of thing. Then at the half-way point it got rather interesting and quite tense for a couple of hundred pages. Then it got silly at the end. Shame. I really enjoyed that middle section. Still, a superior writer in the genre. Rated MA for adult themes and some violence. 3.5/5
One of the best books I've read. It's been about 12 years since I read it but I would go back and do it again.
Several times I really just wanted to give up on this and move on to something else but the completest in me forced myself to finish this book nearly a month later.Forsyth makes one huge mistake right off the bat in this one by introducing the reader to an endless stream of characters.
There is supposedly a famine that is striking Russia and the US is willing to help out the country but the Ukrainians want to stand in the way.
It's a Cold War story about the US versus the Soviet Union, mixed in with some Ukrainian nationalists bent on raising hell in Russia and upsetting world events as a result.
We have the world's wheat production, which -- when I first started reading this -- I thought was going to be boring, but actually turns out to be essential to the plot.
We have war plans.
And Forsyth doesn't go into his usual excruciating 100 page detail on the planning of an assassination or hostage taking like he normally does.
In this book, the head of the KGB is killed -- in one page!
This is a real page turner.
What can I say about the author Fredrick Forsyth. He is a master storyteller who combines fact with fiction in his writing. He is one of my favorite authors and consistantly writes books that will hold your attention with many twists and turns.The story takes place in the late 70's early 80's. The story is a prelude to the cold war era. A political intrigue novel that threatens disastrous results worldwide, with a surprise ending. The book is a very interesting read and you will not be disappointed. I would recommend this book.
'Whichever option I choose, men are going to die.' This is the Devil's Alternative, an appalling choice facing the president of the USA and other statesmen throughout the world. A very good premise. Moral dilemma. Something like Arjuna faced in the Kurukshetra on start of great war of Mahabharata. Krishna gave him ultimate gyan i.e. Geeta. Very enjoyable page turner.
F. Forsyth mě docela baví, ale od Den pro šakala už mě nikdy nic tak nechytlo. Přesto si rád sem tam nějakou jeho knížku přečtu. Má to propracované, přesvědčivé a přesto neskutečně nepravděpodobné. Jednou za čas si nějakou takovou oddechovku dopřeju. U Forsytha mám skoro jistotu, že mě neotráví hned na začátku knížky. Raději Forsytha než Browna. Ale ještě raději mám Grahama Greena.
With all of those 5 star ratings... I just could not get into this book. Quit at page 53.
Great plot, filled with mystery & action, could not put the book down until I finished it!
Nothing except the weather is ever quite what it appears in Russia.
More straightforward than most. Nice twist on the last pages
The Devil's Alternative by Frederick ForsythWhat a masterpiece!Though slow in the beginning, I consider myself fortunate to have stumbled upon this book.What homework, what in depth research.
This is called dedication(of an author).The book begins with a a castaway Miroslav Kaminsky, is a Ukrainian nationalist who escaped after he was betrayed to the KGB.
The plot to teach a lesson and shame the USSR on a global platform for the ethnic cleansing of Ukranians.The Soviet Union is facing famine and are at the mercy of the USA for their grain supplies.The US decides to trade grain in exchange for arms-reduction concessions.
La posible negociación de compra de los excedentes de grano de Norteamérica podría implicar contrapartidas geoestratégicas que los líderes de la URSS no están dispuestos a admitir, por lo que se empieza a hablar en el Politburó de una operación para invadir Europa Occidental.
Las vidas de un terrorista que lucha por la independencia de Ucrania, la de un agente de inteligencia británico en Moscú y la de un capitán de marina mercante noruego especializado en petroleros de gran tamaño, junto a la de otros muchos personajes, se irán cruzando de una u otra forma.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
Forsyth, the master of detail, as i would like to call him.
Every single novel is not just a story, not just a plot full of interesting characters but is also a dossier of research.
From nuts and bolts to international organizations everything is so well researched that for that little 'Fiction' printed at the back of the book, you would think it is all real.
An action packed novel, but unfortunately not a page turner.
The novel on the whole is very predictable, except what Mr. Forsyth does in the end.
This was an awesome, edge of your seat, page turning epic storm of a story. I got so engrossed in this story that every time I saw that the prices had gone up (again) at the local petrol station, I thought it was because of the situation surrounding the oil tanker!
The best ending I ever discovered in novel.
Even the most discriminating fans of the genre will find this political thriller a special treat. Totally captivating and superbly crafted story.
Another political page turner. Shades of today with threatened terroristblow up of oil tanker. Thrilling read.
The book is gripping and awesome.
However, after reading half the book I didn’t feel like putting it down and read the remaining book at one go.
The end of the book can somewhat be predicted but not completely predictable.
Once you read half the book, you won’t want to put it down.
The characters of Russian leader, American president, the British PM and moreover of Andrew Drake have been woven intricately with much detail.
How the leaders handle the Dublin treaty signing, the Russian famine and the hijack of Freya is just wonderfully captivating.Just awesome!!
Amazing read.
Von 1979.
Eine Hungersnot in der Sowjetunion steht an.
Oder aber - Krieg gegen Europa führen.Es kommt zum Kampf innerhalb des Kremls.
Gleichzeitig wird der KGB Chef von Ukrainischen Patrioten umgebracht.
Die Mörder entführen ein Flugzeug, um zu entkommen, werden aber in West-Berlin gefangen.
Darauf nun kapert der Komplize eine Millionen Tonnen Frachter um die freizupressen.Eine frühere Geliebte eines Briten betätigt sich als Nachtigal und hält westliche Geheimdienste auf dem Laufenden.Alles genial.
Am Schluß scheint es als könne Forsyth doch nicht alles in Idealweise aufklären.
Der Bogen fällt ein wenig, aber die Schlußpointe führt dann doch zu den 5 Stars.
La introducción se hace un tanto larga por la cantidad de personajes, pero una vez presentados todos la interacción se torna muy interesante.
Originalmente el libro está situado en el futuro, el cual ahora es un pasado de hace 35 años.
Conserva el atractivo de su argumento y no cabe descartarlo por haber sido concebido como un libro "futurista".Como nota al margen, considero que el autor no es imparcial en la caracterización de su reparto, otorgándole un ligero tinte pro conservador inglés.
Pero siendo una obra de ficción y gozando de su total arbitrio, es tomarlo o dejarlo y seguir con la lectura.
This novel marks a change for Forsyth. His first four books have a restraint and a credibility that distinguish them from the average thriller. Here we have something more in line with the mass of the genre. It nevertheless exhibits a level research and knowledge that mark it out from the pack. Unfortunately, too, it marks the point at which he starts to drip his odious right-wing politics into his novels. Here it is in the form of a wet-dream for Margaret Thatcher.
So, this isn’t the exact type of book I usually read.....older book (1980’s) and long. It took me a few nights but I did read it and I am glad that I did. It had been sitting on my book shelf for a long time and I kept passing it over. Well, I’m glad I took the time to read it. It was complicated, yes, and hard to follow at times, but in the end I thoroughly enjoyed this book and the authors style. It gives a glimpse of what the Cold War must have been like.
For a pure thriller, Forsyth is near impossible to beat when on form; which he clearly was when he wrote this. This cold war spy thriller entertains right up to the very last page, or in my case second. If you think Forsyth may have dated by now please reconsider and pick this one up. He does sympathetic villains, techno-detail and all round pace extremely well. 4.5 stars and fantastic on audio.
