https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/320730.The_Assassination_of_Jesse_James_by_the_Coward_Robert_Ford
Very entertaining. Well researched historic fiction (or fictionalized history?) and a stark portrait of nineteenth century America. This is also a fair study of the foundations of our western culture, focusing on hero worship, victimization and demonization and our propensity for violence.Hansen paints a portrait of James that is also an objective rendering of an American Everyman of this time.
Jesse James was one arrogant son of a bitch! During a train robbery, he introduced himself to the engineer and the stoker as  "Jesse James, the man they'd read so much about."  He took a certain pride in his fame, and infamy. Jesse extricated himself from his heavy coat and laid it on the sofa with his hat. "Did I ever tell you about meeting Mark Twain?""No.""He was in this country store and I recognized him, of course, and went over to shake the man's hand and congratulate him on his good writi
"Did I ever tell you about meeting Mark Twain?""No.""He was in this country store and I recognized him, of course, and went over to shake the man's hand and congratulate him on his good writing.
I said, 'You're Mark Twain, ain't you?' and he nodded yes he was, and I said, 'Guess you and I are about the greatest in our line.' He couldn't very well agree since he didn't know who I was, so he asks and I say, 'Jesse James.' and scoot out of there.
You never really get to know anyone but Bob and Jesse.
Green weeds split the porch steps, a wasp nest clung to an attic gable, a rope swing looped down from a dying elm tree and the ground below it was scuffed soft as flour.”There begins a master class in description that continues until the novel’s end, and the environment becomes almost as large a character as the protagonist himself as Hansen blends fiction, myth, and fact in the telling of final years of Jesse James.There’s a beautiful pace to the story that matches that of the era.
The story rarely gallops but instead focuses on the key moments in the build up to the critical event of the title.
What makes this book is the language.
Though I am no authority, it has effectively captivated the language we would expect from the time.
Hansen is definitely a researcher and it shows, but on top of that, the story seems removed from the contemporary.
It breathes forward to us from another time, even though it was probably composed on a computer.
The language and tone, generating that removal from the contemporary, provide the elevated platform to be awed at, Jesse James is a realized mythological character here.
Robert Ford is aptly awkward and I am not entirely comfortable to how much I find myself relating to him.A great read.
This is a very good story but, somehow, I find myself liking the movie better than the book.There were some great moments, every single time Jesse James & Bob Ford would interract I would hold my breath. Their love / hate relationship was truly fascinating.That said, I struggled a bit with the writing style which I found a bit dull and dry. For me the excitment and the tension of the story was somewhat lost in all the details and the very uneven pace.
I'm not particularly fond of the term "a writers' writer"--it seems far too dismissive and a little pretentious--but I'm not sure I can find a more fitting description for Ron Hansen, and for The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford in particular.
This can almost certainly be attributed to having seen Andrew Dominik's excellent 2007 film, which hews so closely to the novel (including quoting passages of it at length) that there were very few surprises.Though his descriptions are always what I cite first when I tell people that they have to read Ron Hansen, his characterization is commendable too.
When this book was made into a movie a few years ago, I heard an interview with Ron Hansen on NPR and I liked the way he talked about writing and fiction and nonfiction and people and characters and God. Then I forgot about him for a long time until I recently decided that I want to start reading westerns and I remembered the title of this book, even though it isn't really a western.
At first it was a little bit annoying to me; it seemed like Ron spent too long writing each of his sentences, or like he was very pleased with himself every time he verbed a noun or adjective.
As one segment puts it; "No account he'd ever read had the grace to remark on when or where he was born, who his kin were and how he was raised; they never remarked on the Moore School, Blue Cut, the grocery store, his agreement with the government; it seemed enough to say that Bob Ford was the man who shot Jesse James, as if his existence could be encompassed in that one act of perfidy."The tragedy of Bob Ford is not that he went down in history as a coward.
The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Fordby Ron Hansen4 starspp.
304I'd anticipated reading Ron Hansen's book, The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford for a while before I took the plunge.
I'd expected it to captivate me as I really enjoy a good western, but somehow I found myself in a reading bog with this and couldn't force myself to read more than a few pages a day.
Jesse had become something of a folk hero with a kind of Western Robin Hood mythology.
For those who enjoy westerns I recommend this book, I'm not sure of the appeal for others.
I watched the film first, and then read the book.
Obviously, having watched the film influenced the way I think and feel about the book, but I think I took the right move.
Yet, kudos to the actors, the film has made the experience of reading the book more pleasing.
And Jesse James, an infamour robber and murderer, reads Bible almost everyday.
All in all, The Assasinaton of Jesse James is a book worthreading if you want to know how the assasination of Jesse James is seen from the murderer's point of view.
There is a detachment in the writing style that is unengaged.
Once you adjust to this punctuated attitude towards the characters, it is easier to absorb the stark beauty of the words.
For example: “He was one to read auguries in the snarled intestines of chickens, or the blow of cat hair released to the wind, and years of bad luck that moated and dungeoned him.” Throw away details like the conditions of Jesse’s teeth or the smell of a sweating horse accumulate unconsciously to create a startling realistic impression of the West.
The prose alternates between bloody and beautiful.
In a way, I wish Cormac McCarthy had written the book, but Hansen has his own style that works for this genre.
Ron Hansen was the first living author of (semi)fiction I'd read in years.
I'd seen the movie and LOVED it - my favorite of the year.
It reminded me of "Thin Red Line" and I was not surprised to find that the director of Assassination, Andrew Dominik, had been involved with Malick.The movie is S...
Hansen does.
His language takes you right in to the midst of the story in a way I've never read before.One of my greatest longings is to know the American past, so I'm always reaching for anything that helps me glimpse how it may have been.
Hansen delivers.I tried to read Desperados after that, about the last living Dalton brother, but couldn't quite get into it.
His command of the language at the time, his descriptions and beguiling way he offers up beautiful phrases is sublime.
Part history, part fiction, this book serves as both a wonderful anatomy of James and Ford as well as a bible to which most writers should reference in order to guide them should they find themselves lost.
Savour every word and immerse yourself in every page because very few books like this exist.
Even if you're not concerned about the life of Jesse James, read it to see how legends can be articulated in the most perfect way.
It's all about the tempo, the plot was skillfully set, alittle bit slow, the interactions, and the outcomes...concerning the movie, cinematography was really great, the music, and as aspecial note Cassey Affleck performance...

4.5*
Brilliant!
Poetic, haunting, and kind of cryptic, this novel is a little Old West golden nugget. Hansen pokes at the insides of both Jesse James and his homicidal groupie, Bob Ford, in an elegant and fascinating way, making their complicated relationship an intricate web of admiration, jealousy, and wariness that plays out like a cat-and-mouse game without drawing a definite line between the cat and the mouse.
I wrote about it here, a long time ago.After seeing it, I was vaguely aware that it was based on a book, and that (unusually for an adaptation) some of the voiceover narration in the film had been taken more or less directly from the text.
I’m well aware that in writing this I haven’t really done the book any favours in comparing it endlessly to the movie adaptation.
But I write these things for myself rather than anyone else, and for me this book has (in a way) been ruined by a movie which I’m sure will always occupy a special place in my heart.
When we find good books, it is actually exciting to open the pages and knowing we have great stories waiting for us makes life a little brighter.One of the things that I liked best about the writing was Hansen's telling the story in the language of the period, roughly 1880 forward.
Consider Hansen's description of the gang that Frank and Jesse James gathered for their final robbery of a train near Blue Cut Missouri:"Here thirteen men squatted with coffee and idled or cradled shotguns: croppers and clerks and hired hands, aged in their late teens and twenties, wearing patched coveralls and wrinkled wool trousers and foul-looking suit coats that exposed their wrists, or overcoats the color of nickel, of soot, that assorted weeds had attached themselves to.
Look, I don't know how much of the "novel" THE ASSASSINATION OF JESSE JAMES BY THE COWARD ROBERT FORD is true; I don't know how much of the dialogue and interaction and actions of the characters actually took place, or were embellished by a very gifted Ron Hansen.
She looked to Jesse and said, "I don't know what it is about him, but that boy can aggravate me more by just sitting still than most boys can by pitching rocks." ' Depicting the final train robbery of the notorious James Gang, followed by the band's break-up (and some of its members exited stage left involuntarily), THE ASSASSINATION OF JESSE JAMES BY THE COWARD ROBERT FORD is a fascinating look inside the head of Jesse Woodson James--a calculating, diabolical killer, yet devoted and cherished family man.
I saw the film adaptation of this book several times before reading the book.
The photography and music were spot on and the acting was nice too.After reading the book, it feels like the movie was made to be a sort of companion to the book rather than an adaptation.
They act as a sort of collaborative diptych.While the book has beautiful meandering descriptions of people and events, the film focuses (obviously) on the visual language.
When I first saw the film I felt like it viewed as a book that I was visualizing as I read it.
assassination of jesse james by the coward robert ford.
this could have been probably 25% shorter (i think i've said that about like the past 10 books i've read, maybe it's me).
there's a moment where robert ford isn't sure whether he is remembering killing jesse or the hundreds of times he killed an actor playing jesse in a western stage show that he joined literally months after the actual murder.
anyway, good for american/western history dorks with a taste for quiet, mumbly drama (good comp is probably mccabe and mrs miller).
Its writing is meticulous and understated.As the novel opens, Ron Hansen shows great care with his description of Jesse James.
Most novels show great care with the opening depictions of their protagonists, though, so as always a reader is advised to say, "Let's wait and see." But as the novel progresses, Hansen's descriptions never lose their detail and never resort to irrelevant imagery.That is this novel's best surprise.
He writes confident, well-shaped sentences that tell a story just right.This novel does not fly forward and might not have all the action readers of Westerns appreciate.
I read this book not long after it came out.
I remember liking it a great deal.I've just re-read it, and I have to say, this is easily one of the best novels I have ever read.
There are many scenes which I read, and then immediately revisited, to enjoy the flavor of them, the structure, the joy.I think I may also have read this alongside another novel by Ron Hansen that I maybe didn't enjoy as much.
But now I think I'll try to find those other novels anyway and compare.This is a towering achievement in American letters, though, and you would be remiss in avoiding it much longer.
Jesse James: train robber, thief, husband, father, ex-bushwhacker and hero to many, at the long and lonely end of his ‘night riding’ ways.
Bob Ford: young, impressionable, and desperate to be like his childhood hero, the one beloved by so very many, the one and only, Jesse James.
It’s a poetic journey that will thrust you back into a time when the Civil War was still a fresh wound on the American memory, and justice was often dealt out from a Colt revolver by the man who could draw the quickest.
When I was writing my MA history thesis, my advisor said to me, "Narrative is the hardest thing to write."What he meant was that a long string of narrative, devoid of historical argument is difficult because the simple recounting of facts gets really boring after a while.The story of Jesse James and Robert Ford is far from boring, but the style of this book reads like the narrative portions of a history or narrative non-fiction book.
Only a very few times are we allowed access to the thoughts of the characters, and only hear about their actions.
At the beginning, I found the incredible detail rich, but without access to the feelings and motivations of the characters, it soon became tedious.
As a rule, movie adaptations are never as good as books, right?
Well, this may be the exception that proves the rule, as throughout the novel my mind kept wandering off, wondering if the Brad Pitt/Casey Affleck film was available on Netflix or if I could possibly find the Blu-Ray in the Walmart discount bin.That being said, I did enjoy the novel.
I especially liked that the actual assassination took place somewhere around the mid-point, which was followed by a lengthy telling of future lives of all the parties both directly and indirectly involved.I am not sure how historically accurate the novel is, but still recommend it anyone interested in western and historical novels.
This book was a mental joy to read. A book lover's dream, it is the perfect mix of true life history and plot driven fiction. the characters are illustrated with detail that doesn't miss the smallest inch. It is also a grim biography of two complicated men, bob ford and jesse james. the writing is thick with descriptions and stories and rich vocabulary. the story moves along with equal parts action, drama, and gallows humor. i haven't seen the movie yet, so i'm not sure how it compares.
Thoughtful account of Jesse James and his killer, Robert Ford. The author does a nice job of summarizing the history of the James gang and Ford's introduction to Jesse as well using historical clues to track how Ford went from worshipping Jesse to killing him to spending the rest of his life trying to justify what he'd done. Fans of westerns and historical figures like James should enjoy.
