https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23848559-furiously-happy
Earlier this year, I was one of the lucky people Jenny sent an Advance Reading Copy of her newest book to.The simple upshot?
I want to encourage people to read the book so that your lives will be dramatically embettered.
It made me resolve to spend more time being furiously happy." "I wish Jenny Lawson was my neighbor.""This book is a good book and you should buy this book and read this book.""When I grow up, I want to be Joss Whedon.
It's finally out, and if you don't buy it and read it, you are not living the best possible life.
my love for jenny lawson is NOT AT ALL creepy  jenny lawson, i wanna make you blts and braid your hair. i am really shitty at braiding, and my fingers will be covered in mayonnaise after making you all those blts, so it will probably get a little messy and crazy, but it's the thought that counts!! and since your book is basically a manifesto of owning one's messy and crazy bits and alchemizing* them into comedy gold, we should be all set.this book is a little more personal that Let's Pretend Thi
Australia is really a lot like Texas if Texas were mad at you and drunk and maybe had a knife.and her scoffing at bruce springsteen, dismissing him as "obviously not the boss of scientific accuracy."i mean, he's probably never even conducted any chameleon/skittles experiments.but it's her tales about how unfit she is for the adult world that were the most dangerous to my tendency to laugh-pee, particularly the chapter that involves her meeting with maury the financial planner and victor - aka mister jenny lawson.
Upfront: I'm not very objective about this book because Jenny is someone I consider a friend (although we've only met once I think!) and I'm a huge fan of her blog, AND she blurbed my book.
But I wouldn't have asked her to blurb if I didn't love her stuff, ergo it doesn't feel weird to say I loved this book.
Basically her original book is one of my faves (I read it before I'd met her or even read much of her blog, for the record) and these new tales are just as witty and weird and fantastic as in her book debut!
Jenny talking about her mental illness was really impactful and well done, but the rest of this book didn't really work for me. It felt like she was trying too hard to be funny by throwing together random words to make the most strange sentences possible. This might just be how she always talks/writes, but I have never experienced her in any way so I wasn't prepared for that. I'll definitely give her first book a read/listen, and I sincerely hope it doesn't include the word "awesomeness" as much as this one did.
Audiobook: 30-day trial with audible/Amazon.
I had no intentions of 'reading' this book ( I didn't request it from Netgalley as an early read), but then I read several positive reviews.
( one said its a 'must' read for everyone).
Plus, friends told me 'memoirs' by the author themselves, are good audiobook choices.
what the heck: free trial read!
The very beginning was great...
( out walking), I was ready to enjoy some laughs,wisdom, and inspiration...BUT SOON....I became exhausted, or bored with exaggerated stories.
I've had this audiobook - less than a week-I'll exchange it!!!
I’m having one of those rare days where I love people and all of the amazing wonder they’re capable of and if someone fucks that up for me I will stab them right in the face. ~Jenny LawsonI AM GOING TO BE FURIOUSLY HAPPY, OUT OF SHEER SPITE. ~Jenny Lawson  I've shamelessly let Rocket Raccoon carry this review space since last year, and he garnered me 54 likes, so thanks Rocket! (I'm sure he would approve of my blatant exploitation even though he's the one being exploited). But enough is enough.
And really, I'm sure Rory isn't too furiously happy either about having some other fabulous raccoon steal his thunder.
This book is her true confession, no holds barred everything you ever wanted to know but were afraid to ask look inside her precious crazy head -- Jenny wouldn't mind me using the word crazy either; because she's taking crazy back.
She's humanizing depression and mental illness, she's reaching out and making it relatable (rather than something shameful and embarrassing).
************I love that the cover looks like a blissed out, meth-crazed Rocket Raccoon!Oh, yeah!
The manically happy raccoon amongst scattered glitter on the cover is the best part of this book.
I find very little humor in mental illness, even when it's offered up by someone who doesn't seem to mind using her chronic depression and crippling anxiety as a vehicle to what she says are ridiculous stories.
I agree with her word ridiculous.
I guess it's good she can enjoy her mental illness, I'm quite sure most others would not find this possibility very doable.
Is it wrong to feel this book might be insulting to people who are devastated by mental illness ?
Jenny kept talking about dead animals, and from reading about her first book I realized that she was a daughter of a taxidermist and that was why.
There were moments in this book that I wish I had read her first book first because I didn't understand why or what she was talking about.Furiously Happy is a book written by Jenny to explore her lifelong battle with mental illness.
Jenny tried explaining this by turning her mental illness stories into a hysterical, ridiculous book.
It's about anxiety and depression, written in a really random and crazy and hyperbolic way -- and it was perfect.
VERY MUCH SO.Okay so the first thing you need to know about this book is:it is very, very random.
What I liked particularly about this book is that the author didn't refer to herself as "broken" all the time.
She didn't constantly say her mental illness ruined her life and made her into someone she hated...like she chose to be "furiously happy" despite her crappy disorders.
(Yes I am a serious person.)Basically I loved this book a lot.
This book is everything.
I got to Chapter 19 and said hell with it.
Maybe I was expecting too much, like her talking about her illness instead of shower curtains and her taxidermy animals or how she has every mental illness out there.
Things come out of her without any thought which I found insulting at times, maybe I'm taking it too personal.
Either way....I'm glad I never read the first, I don't regret not finishing the 2nd and no way in hell will I read any others.
This author is one of those people who talks without thinking, at all.
While I've been witness to MANY review bumps in my time here on Goodreads in order to "collect the likes," I may be the first user to ever DELETE MY OWN REVIEW and all of its likes. Sorry if this looks familiar, but yesterday I proved that a glitch in the system can, in fact, cause me to Darwin myself on the interwebs. Now on to the "new" review : (Welcome to what was maybe the most epic of all epic buddy reads . . .  PICTURED: Kelly (duh), Mitchell the Book Boar, David Hasselmouse, Vixen, Frank
Unfortunately Furiously Happy fell victim (to me, at least – please note this is only MY opinion and I still liked the dang book fine – I just didn’t looooooove it) to “second book syndrome.” It’s hard enough for a best-selling author to write another book, but it has to be infinitely harder for someone to write another non-fiction book about their own life experiences – especially when having to keep providing content on a successful blog.
(So far it’s worked four times over with our living things and to the point where I look like I’m a big-game hunter for dead things.) Which leads us to Grover Cleveland .
Here are a few of the buttons on the Japanese toilet:I'm not entirely sure what these are all for but I think the top one that looks like a stick figure is to notify people that you've found the Blair Witch, and I think the next one means "Poop won't go down, Use your foot." I assume the orange button on the far left is for starting a war, and then there are two for washing your boobs for some reason, and then one about levitating on a fountain, and I think the last one is for ordering bacon?
Freakin' hilarious!🤣 I don't feel so bad about being so crazy as hell after reading this book!!!
"There will be moments when you have to act like a grown-up. Those moments are tricks. Do not fall for them." I won’t say too much about Furiously Happy, because I really think the element of surprise is one of the best things about the book. Most of the stories in this book are downright bizarre, and on more than one occasion I thought to myself, “There is no way that actually happened”, and then BOOM, the author provides photographic evidence, and blew my mind once again. "[...] my friend Lau
On top of that, you get amazing stories about cuddling koalas in a koala suit, taxidermied raccoons, a shitload of possums, and lots of other things you never thought you’d read."As the doctor walked me out he told me to 'stop worrying so much' [...] and I made a note to tell my shrink the breaking news that the medical world finally found the cure for my severe anxiety disorder and that the prescription is 'Just stop worrying so much'.My God, we've come so far with science."Without a doubt, one of the best books I’ve read this year.
I started it as a physical book and thought it was great, and I finished it with the audiobook and liked that as well!
It's such a candid and unfiltered book about the experience of mental illness, and I could relate so much to parts of this.
However, in the middle of the book, Jenny starts getting really off-topic and just begins telling random funny stories.
Don't get me wrong, they were enjoyable, but I was left wondering how it related to mental health or her policy of being furiously happy.
Hilarious and heartfelt. More serious than her first book, but still incredibly genuine and never lacking her sardonic wit. If you are looking for a touching and uproariously funny memoir about what it means to be a human, you've found it in this book.
I truly have never laughed so much while reading as I have while reading both of her books.
If you or someone you know struggles with mental illness, if you just want to giggle, or if you're a grumpy tightwad who maybe just needs to lighten up a little this book is for you.
But also read her first book, Let's Pretend This Never Happened: A Mostly True Memoir because it's also great and there's some hilarious shit in there and some references you'd probably not want to miss.
Cause that's where it all started, and where it continues to be awesome in between books.
I loved her first book and this one was even better.
In addition to being, in my opinion, uproariously funny, Jenny is a poster child for the millions who suffer silently from mental illness and the social stigma that goes along with that.
I think Jenny gives people with debilitating mental illnesses hope- that they too can live a life filled with laughter, quirkiness and fun despite any obstacles.It's weird but my favorite part was the bit about Japanese toilets.
So, in addition to being entertaining and inspiring, this book could also be considered educational.
Listened to the audiobook, which was narrated by Jenny herself.Jenny talks candidly (and hilariously!) about her life and mental illnesses.
I have anxiety, and although my experiences and disorders aren't the same as Jenny's I found myself relating to the fears and emotion behind nearly all of the situations she described.
Her stories are outrageous and sometimes awful, but she always makes sure you know YOU AREN'T ALONE.
I feel like I could listen to this audiobook forever and still get something out of it each time.
You will either find solace or insight about mental illness, and undoubtedly a good laugh too.
I HATE THIS BOOK SO MUCH. I've never seen someone try so hard and fail so fantastically at being funny. And I think it was made worse by my listening to the audio version. She's got that dumb valley girl accent that makes it sound like every sentence is a question. And words ending in "d" somehow all sounded like they ended in "t." It made my skin crawl. I couldn't handle it. But apparently 95% of the people that read it think it's sent from above, so don't take my word for it, I guess.
O Clube Dos Furiosamente Felizes"We are all in the gutter but some of us are looking at the stars" , Oscar Wilde"Todos nós temos a nossa dose de loucura, tragédia ou drama, mas a forma como lidamos com esses horrores faz toda a diferença" , será uma possível interpretação destas palavras de Oscar Wilde , além da premissa deste "Furiosamente Feliz".Há Loucura Radical e Loucura Normal.Na primeira, não há volta a dar!
Viver Furiosamente Felizes!Nota: Comecei por classificar este livro com 4 estrelas, mas reconsiderei para 5, pois estou em crer que Jenny Lawson, com este seu testemunho inspirador, cumpriu o objectivo desejado - Fundar o Clube dos Furiosamente Felizes!
This was one of the first memoirs I read when I decided to read more non-fiction (which by the way, brilliant decision on my end) and when I needed something fun and quick to read on my flight from hell back from holiday (I just have the worst luck when it comes to flying, but this time really took the cake) this seemed like the obvious pick.
I have so much respect for her honesty and her vulnerability and her bravery, but its her wit that lifts this beyond many of the other memoirs I have read since reading this.Jenny Lawson is painfully honest about her struggle with mental illness - and the picture she paints s not pretty.
Acredito que o livro todo se resuma perfeitamente na própria frase da capa: um livro engraçado sobre coisas terríveis.Apesar de eu ter começado a ler achando que seria um livro de ficção, e ter me deparado com um "livro de memórias" da própria autora, me surpreendi um milhão de vezes.
Saber que tudo isso é real e que ela é assim...
é insano (e dá vontade de ser meio impulsivo, pirado e sem filtro também).A única coisa que me impediu de ter dado 5 estrelas é ter achado que algumas histórias não contribuíram pra nada em relação ao restante do conteúdo.
See this and the rest of the crap I write at my blog  Bark's Book Nonsense.
She suffers from depression and crushing anxiety and a host of other disorders but she still manages to live a life that sounds fun and that is inspiring.
I’m just thankful she has the talent to do so because I needed a little laugh after A Little Life.I did not take notes and although there are many quote worthy tidbits in this book, you’ll have to go read the thing yourself because I was reading selfishly for joy and was too frigging lazy to be bothered to write any of them down.
Like, I know depression is like totally a literal thing that feels like someone throat punched you right in the knee with a kitten fisted mitten.
Also then stabbed you with a pen right after and I mean serves that asshole right for being a tiny ninja zombie baby from the Internet.
Like omg, literally, right?
I mean here's an awesome quote I made up about parsley and soup and lady parts.
Glitter and unicorns made me faint.There you go, you read the book.
I just saved you like literally 1000 hours.
You're welcome!P.S. Siri and autocorrect helped me write this whole book on my iPhone.
It's like Jenny lives inside my head - her descriptions of anxiety and depression are so spot on I was practically cheering out loud.
I read this while traveling home from BEA, and I was laughing so hard six different people interrupted to say, "Ok, I have to know what you're reading."At one point I actually had to put it down for 5 minutes because I was legitimately afraid I was going to pee myself in the middle of LaGuardia.
It's alternately extremely touching and inspiring (in the face of severe depression Jenny decides to be "Furiously Happy" out of spite), and falling down hysterical.
I haven't laughed out loud so much at a book since her debut.
Jenny Lawson doesn't shy away from sharing her every thought, no matter how random.
Even though she rambles through the whole book, I enjoyed it because that's how my brain talks to me too, especially when I'm emotional; rambling, off-topic hypotheticals and non sequiturs.Jenny Lawson writes extensively about her mental illness, and offers advice for those struggling alongside her.
Since I've never had any mental issues, I fear some of her advice and comfort was lost on me.
I can sympathize, offer support, educate myself on the illness, but I won't really get it until I've experienced it myself.
[4 Stars] So I may end up changing this rating based on how I feel a little bit removed from the book, but if it's been more than a month since being edited, it's just going to stay here.
I didn't know exactly what to expect going into this because making depression and the plethora of other interestingly-named conditions that Jenny experiences don't seem to mix well with humor in my brain.
If you know of anyone with anxiety or depression they will almost certainly probably maybe relate to things or at least one thing in this book.
“I wish someone had told me this simple but confusing truth: Even when everything’s going your way you can still be sad. Or anxious. Or uncomfortably numb. Because you can’t always control your brain or your emotions even when things are perfect.” Blog ¦ Bloglovin’ ¦ Tumblr ¦ Instagram
