https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112148.Always_Running
Apparently this is the most stolen book in libraries and classrooms. A very smart choice indeed. I can't believe I paid for this.Not my jam. Sorry. I'm not gangsta enough.
There were a lot of books in the classroom libraries about gang life, books of poetry by Tupac Shakur, stuff the students prefered as it had to do with, "you know, real life." Which was, in a way, bullshit.
One kid I remember, his older brother had been killed in a gang-related shooting.
He wasn't a particularly good student, this kid, but he was always there and he was always respectful; he knew it would kill his mother if he didn't at least get through high school.Anyway, I read a lot of these books, and out of all of them, this one was far and away the best.
Luis Rodriguez speaks out of a virtually unheard experience: a young Chicano man who survived "la vida loca" gang culture in South San Gabriel.
Rodriguez' writing is raw and brutally honest, but with a lyricism that will stop readers in their tracks.
He gives voice to an unheard cry, and illuminates the heartbreaking cycle of poverty and violence that perpetuates gang wars.
He neither simplifies the problem, nor admits defeat.
His passion for reconciliation and true empowerment of minority communities, such as the Mexican American community, is staggering.
I found this truly challenging and convicting -- particularly as I have reevaluated my approach to library outreach for teens.
I found this to be a powerful and painful read.
It's not easy reading about the gang experience.
It's harder still when you know it could have been your story if circumstances had been different.
I knew it was bad in LA, but I had no idea how hard it was just to survive.I'm Mexican-American and 4 years older than the author.
There was a time in my life that I wouldn't admit to being Mexican-American because of the attitudes towards us.
Some of those attitudes are reported in this book and that made it painful to read and relive.
Was it worth reading--absolutely!
The glaring contradictions in this memoir make it hard to side with the author. You can only take so many "I was given no opportunities" paragraphs next to ones about voluntary drug use, sex, and violence until it's impossible to believe anything the author says.
its very difficult to live in a time the way Luis did and other people as well.
i understood what the author was trying to tell us, but there was some parts in the book where it was difficult to understand.I think that Luis did good on writing this book for several reasons.
I would recommend this book to anybody that is going through hard times, or that have had gang experiences.
The ones that actually dont want to be homeless and fight for their beliefs are in real gangs.
Being in education, I'm always curious about banned books and books with lots of buzz. Here in California, Always Running is kept behind the checkout desk at my local library because it is one of the most stolen books, so I wanted to check it out. Interesting enough but not "steal-worthy". I can see how his story would appeal to teens, although I don't think they should read it (thus the ban and theft issue I guess). Everyone needs a place to fit in and belong.
I think it was a really good book. It never got out of the story it was very concentrated on Luis( The main Character).
Always Running is an engaging and intelligent look into the socio-political factors that have led to the proliferation of street gangs in the last century in areas where large percentages of citizens have few opportunities but plentiful obstacles, told through the firsthand experiences of former gang member and now activist, Luis Rodriguez, as he grows up as an oppressed minority in the over-policed, but under-protected, gang-haven of East LA.
It was a good book that portrayed the streets of LA. I really related to what the author talked about even though he recollected events that are years past my time. Growing up in LA county my entire life, and being half Mexican, is what made me really relate to the authors memoir.
For me so much of my memory is just what he provides - little snapshots of moments in time.From a political/social perspective, this book does a good job of elucidating the reasons kids join gangs and the possible paths out.
Then I turned a page & there it was - Down These Mean Streets by Piri Thomas - turns out Luis Rodriguez read that one, too.This book is also full of shades of Sandra Cisneros - a Chicana writer & poet whose work I've read off & on since her first book - The House on Mango Street.
These two things meant it wasn’t always easy to follow the narrative.My favorite part of the book was when he and a Chicano girl tried out to become the school mascots Joe and Josephine Aztec because their community was tired of Anglo students filling the role and making the characters look like bumbling morons.
It was a part of building community pride and the scene made me tear up.His story of the violence and prejudice and poverty he was subjected to meant joining what they called “clubs” and the media called “gangs” for protection seem like a logical thing to do.
For those who have no hope, those who society makes you think it was a choice to be where and who you are, those who think that the situation you are in is your only one this is for you.A hard story of Luis's life as he is grows up having no one in society as support but your friends leading into the creation of gangs.
The uncertainty of unknown stepping right behind him with ever choice he makes.The writing jumps around back and forth in areas in his past but only made me feel like Luis was actually telling his story as memories came to him naturally.
Luis Rodriguez is one of the few who survived "la vida loca" in South San Gabriel, and in this book, he tells of his experiences in the streets of LA and how he managed to leave that gang life behind and start anew as a writer.
As I read this book, I was surprised by how little I knew of LA, where I have spent most of my life.
I believe everyone should read this book at one point or another, because there is so much to get from it.
It was very distracting to try and follow, and it ruined the flow of the story.Also, I wanted more.
At points, he does say the gun violence or rape was not his thing, but he passively (and sometimes actively) participates and/or does nothing to stop it.
What are the consequences of not doing, or stopping a gang rape?Where is the enlightenment, the learnings?
Perhaps I'll never know because I didn't finish it, but the lack of insight into the why of things made me quit this book.2 stars for honesty and courage to tell this story.
Luis, Louis, Louie, Chin, whatever your name is, had a very interesting and moving life, but could have recalled it in a much better way that would have fascinated readers more.
The historical content was interesting enough, but the writing style weighed down the few and far between positives.To be fair, a Latina waitress did stop me to verify that I was reading this book and lauded that this book be required reading for schools in heavily Latinx populated areas.
Perhaps the Latinx community would appreciate it more?
Personally, I think I would better enjoy a book about Asian culture in this style, but how much better, might be the real determinant.
I'm really truly enjoying this book because the speaker reminds me of Chicanos that popped in and out of my life. The speaker helps me understand the way a chicano who struggles, migrates, and survives "La Vida Loca". But this is not the way it always has to be, always running. I'm looking forward to keep updated with this book.
The characterization and motives of the protagonist were well explained. There were times I felt the writing was more colloquial and details were more unnecessary than I wanted, but then Rodriguez’s writing would become florid and poetic. Because the characters are sometimes more important than the plot-telling in my eyes, it deserves 5 stars. I will be reading the sequel!
I read Always Running by Luis J. Rodriguez. I liked the book because i can relate to it in some ways. Its just another perspective from a kid that lives in Los Angeles. Another reason i enjoyed this book is because it shows the difficult things people have to go through. Shows how Latinos live in the ghetto.
Year ago, when I was in grad school, I took a YA lit class and read My Bloody Life: The Making of a Latin King.
But aside from the differences in locale (My Bloody Life: The Making of a Latin King takes place in Chicago, while Always Running takes place in Los Angeles), there are quite a lot of other differences.
There is definitely some sexually explicit content, so I can see (plus the violence) why it's been challenged/banned in many schools, but I guess it's all just part of "la vida loca" (see book subtitle).I've heard of Always Running for so many years and am only getting around to reading it now, so I was really surprised that Rodriguez actually went to my high school!
He gives us examples of what happened to most of his friends, like Wilo getting run over by rival gang members, even after he moved away, to show us how lucky he was to make it out alive.Luis Rodriguez came with his family from Mexico to the U.S. His father was a professor, who had to run from the government.
Sangra was their rival gang, and even while he was involved in a gang, doing drugs and getting in fights, he joined club called M.E.Ch.A, and fought for the equality of his fellow Mexican students, through a series of demonstrations, rallies and speeches.
Luis explains how living in the Watts and the Las Lomas barrio, very much influenced him in joining a gang at the age of twelve.
He explains how living in LA it makes it seem so natural to join a gang at a very young age.
Luis Rodriguez also exposes how police at the time would try to provoke the two gangs to get them to fight against one another.
He wrote this book for his son, trying to show him that gang life is not good.
Rodriguez, a man who joined a gang since violence & racism forced him to become a member for his life’s sake.In the memoir Always Running, Luis J.
Rodriguez reveals his gang life & all the struggles being part of a gang he faced in East L.A. He started as a member of the “Animal Tribe” & later became a “Lomas Loco” as a shield from his “Vida Loca.” Always Running reveals Rodriguez’s harsh life, facing racism, poverty, & violence early in his childhood.
Rodriguez wrote the memoir for the intention of letting his son know what gang activity looks & feels like.Rodriguez writes about all kinds of dramatic scenes with style, so anyone who isn’t in a gang can immediately feel the fear & action that occurs.
Rodriguez pulls no punches in the accounting of the details of his life, presenting some of the darker scenes with the same honesty and straightforward writing that he gives to any scene in the book.
The book was based partially on writing he did when he was in his teens, then he continued working on it through his 20s and finished it while in his 30s, so this likely explains some--and perhaps all--of the unevenness.Second, Rodriguez fails to take responsibility for his actions in the book.
Rodriguez and the struggles he had in his gang days of L.A. After his move from Mexico to America he faces many choices that sometimes may even lead to his death, or the death of other people.
Luis wrote this book for his son, to inform him about his struggles with gangs in hope that he will start to make better choices.
This book is very detailed and shares a lot about the gang view of L.A and how sometimes you need to do something or make a hard choice that might make a difference in your life.
I could tell the book involved gangs , drugs , and a lot of violence .
a family from mexico comes to america looking for a better life aka the american dream.
they hear stories about how good america is all the time and how life would be so much better living in america.
they were very wealthy out in mexico but they new they would have to start all over.There kids were dicri minated againsst them and weven know they lacked english alot they can comperhend very well.
you have another person to look after and you want them to live better than you did .
Throughout the book, Rodriguez uses powerful and brutally honest descriptions of experiences from his real life to engage the audience and keep the story extremely interesting.
He also jumps around a lot and fails to tell the full story in chronological order.Throughout the story, Luis Rodriguez blames the way he is on a rough childhood upbringing, poverty, and racism.
I appreciate the books honesty and straight-frowardness throughout the story and I especially enjoyed the way the author describes his experiences.
Despite this book's great honesty and mature content, I would still recommend it to all adults and high schoolers who enjoy stories about real life situations.
no-- if anything, the language itself felt a lot like home.
But it wasn't my life to live and it was not my means of gaining respect, a sense of belonging, and protection-- and for this, I am lucky to have been raised in a family and region where there were other means to gain these traits.
But he does this by telling his own story; he goes into detail about his own internal and external battles to gain that respect, belonging, and protection.
In short, this book opened up my eyes to the intricacies of gang life.
Rodriguez telling his story of a young veteran gang of East L.A. who survived all the danger surrounding him.
He watched fear as drugs, murder, suicide, and acts of street crimes of friends and family members.
Luis Rodriguez is the main character of this book who comes from poor family.
As he started being a gang member his family started to give up on himself.
He fought for his child and this was the reason why he began writing this book to tell him his own story in “Always Running” A memoir that explores motivations of gang life and against the death.
Rodriguez tells his story off being raised in the hood of L.A. His struggles become your own as you can’t help, but to draw parallels to your own life.
Though it is an autobiography, it doesn’t read like one.
Of course as in most autobiographies, some stories are embellished and dramatized, but the way the book is written it doesn’t feel like that.
When I read this book I felt the pain he felt, I felt how alone he was, how everything was against him, and how hard it was to find the courage to strive for a better life.
