https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77605.The_Final_Deduction
Her husband was kidnapped for ransom:Well in this case a tiny sum of just half a million dollars was requested; may I remind you that the book was written in the early sixties when this kind of money could buy a lot of happiness.
She was obviously was afraid to notify the police and Nero Wolfe seemed to be the obvious choice.
As anybody familiar with the series knows Nero Wolfe is also very lazy.
Nero Wolfe, I bow my head to your brilliance in avoiding work while still making a high class living.I rated this book with 4 stars initially.
I think I made a fairly good case for the new rating.
A rich woman comes to tell Wolfe that her husband's been kidnapped. The ransom is paid, the husband quickly released, but soon two people are dead--and Wolfe and Archie begin to suspect the kidnapping is not what it seems. Not a particularly memorable Wolfe adventure, but still entertaining.
Nero is hired by actress Althea Vail when her current husband is kidnapped.
She pays the ransom and everything seems to be going well - until someone is murdered.I'm not super familiar with this series, something I should definitely change.
I found Nero a little egotistical at times, but it certainly helps that we are spending time away from him thanks to Archie's narration and trips outside Nero's home.
The suspects are a bit weak, but that is a minor issue overall.
There are some dated references since this book was written in the 1960's, so keep that in mind as you read.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
I will say the same thing that I always say about Rex Stout's Nero Wolfe books..........fantastic!!
It is not the plot that is the attraction but the interaction between Wolfe and Archie that makes these books so appealing.
The plot here concerns a rich woman's husband who has been kidnapped and Wolfe is hired to get his back safely.
He does but that is when the story takes a sudden turn to the deadly.
If you haven't tried Rex Stout and you are a mystery fan, get busy and find one in the corpus of 40+ Nero Wolfe books.
Rex Stout
A rich woman whose husband has been kidnapped comes to Wolfe, not to find her husband, but to make sure he's returned safely.
Wolfe has a notice put in the paper addressed to the kidnapper to make sure of this outcome, which does happen.
But then the husband turns up dead the day after he returns.
Was it murder or an accident?
The son of the woman next hires Wolfe to find the ransom, which his mother has told him he can keep if he finds it, with Wolfe getting one-fifth as a fee.
How he finds the money and deduces the murderer is quite interesting.
Mysteries don't always do that, sometimes the author strains reasoning to make their solution work.And as always, we have the witty and playful banter between Archie and, well, everyone else, since the Wolfe mysteries are narrated from Archie's first person point of view, which gives us a better view of the star: Nero Wolfe.The story was written in 1961, which makes it a later work, but I think that, unlike a lot of mystery writers, Stout not only avoids being formulaic (well, as much as you can avoid that with murder mysteries) and his character analysis matures.
A solid Nero Wolfe book with a twist that only becomes obvious at the very end.
Exactly where it should be, so the reader can say "Oh yeah!
That is obvious!" Archie Goodwin should certainly tie, or even beat, Dr. Watson as the best sidekick / legman in detective literature.
OK, maybe they both come in second to Velda over at Hammer Investigations.We also got to see Saul and the other West 35th Street Irregulars in this adventure, and that always makes for a better tale.
If you enjoy the world's most acerbic detective, this is definitely a good entry for you to peruse.Find It!
Stout, Rex. THE FINAL DEDUCTION. A Nero Wolfe Mystery. (1955). ****. This is one of Stout’s better Wolfe mysteries: a controlled number of characters and fewer reaches into Wolfe’s exotic deductive reasoning powers. A woman enters Wolfe’s offices and tells him she needs to help him find her husband, who has been kidnapped. She shows him the ransom letter that demands half-a-million dollars. Money is no object to her; she just wants her husband back. There are a few suspects that Wolfe zeros in o
This is one of Stout’s better Wolfe mysteries: a controlled number of characters and fewer reaches into Wolfe’s exotic deductive reasoning powers.
A woman enters Wolfe’s offices and tells him she needs to help him find her husband, who has been kidnapped.
When the secretary is found dead – run over by a car – near the supposed delivery point of the ransom money, the case takes on a new aspect.
The clues are all there, you just need to match wits with Wolfe and his infinite powers of deductive reasoning.
Almost all of the Nero Wolfe mysteries have received a 4 star rating (The Black Mountain (1954) got 5 stars); This 1961 entry is above average and I would like to give it a 4.5 rating - but not a 5 (I give that to fewer than 1% of the books I read).
Nero Wolfe is hired by Althea Vail to insure her kidnapped husband, Jimmy, is returned alive.
Wolfe and Archie become convinced her secretary, Diana, was involved in the kidnapping.
Jimmy returns in good shape but Diana has been murdered.
Althea's son hires Wolfe to find the ransom money.
I had been saving back this particular Wolfe book for a some special occasion and I decided that my 55th b'day was as good an event as any. The book lived up to my expectations. Unlike some of the cases, the deductions were slowly revealed so that at the end Wolfe only needs to resolve one issue, but it's incredibly well done. Satisfactory, he might say!
Stout hitting his stride in this book. The characters are vivid and again, Wolfe and Archie go as far as they can legally before solving murder! Great dialogue here as well. I feel that in this book, both Archie and Wolfe know each other well enough that they need each other, and even though Archie pesters, Wolfe realizes that the gamble Archie sees, is worth it. And it is.
Technically, Wolfe and Archie are not involved in the kidnapping per se; they are on standby just in case the victim doesn't get safely home.
Paladin, in fact, has a lot in common with Wolfe and Archie.
Noel not only learns to stand up to his mother, he keeps his word to Wolfe and Archie, and even throws in a nice bonus for Archie, Saul, Fred and Orrie, that was not in the original oral contract.There was one thing I found annoying in this book: although a lot of the action takes place in Westchester County, our favorite evil state cop, Con Noonan, is nowhere to be seen.
- 140 pp.I really love this series of books which I just discovered sometime in the present decade (2010’s).
Since then Robert Goldsborough has continued the series with the approval of Stout’s estate.
In them, the characters live and work and eat and grow orchids in a massive brownstone on W.
35th Street in present day New York City.
And it is always present day and the characters never age, but the technology around them grows with the times.
There are no surprises, here, with Rex Stout's 1961 novel "The Final Deduction (A Nero Wolfe Mystery Book 35)." It's the 35th novel in his "Nero Wolfe" series and, once again, it's very well done, with excellent characters, wonderful dialog, and good pacing.
I will note, though, that I found the tone of this book to be just slightly different from earlier books: Archie's just a bit more independent and Nero Wolfe is actually just a tad more polite than normal.
But, for anyone who's read the previous books, you know what to expect.
I'm rating it at a Very Good 4 stars out of 5.
Another great story in the Nero Wolfe series. FYI, possible spoilers ahead. Towards the very end of The Final Deduction, I found myself wishing I knew more about the tax laws of the late 1950s, early 1960s. Since I’m not a millionaire, I don’t know if the tax laws have changed dramatically since then or if they are still the same. Anyway, I continue to enjoy the interactions between Archie and Nero Wolfe and all of Archie’s commentaries.
Great book! The first Nero Wolfe I have ever read. Rex Stout has a great style that I loved and was close to my personal perfect writer, Stephen King in his style. The only complaint is Wolfe's thesaurus-like dialogue that I would have to look up from time to time. Lots of twists and turns and a lot of characters to remember but I kept them all clear in my head! Archie Goodwin is the best and I loved his narration through out. Highly recommended!
Nero Wolfe is asked to help guarantee the safe return of a woman’s kidnapped husband. Soon people start to die and Archie feels obligated to get involved while Wolfe would, as always, prefer to read a book. While it was fairly easy to guess who was responsible I always love the interaction between the regular characters.
I will always like this one because I have read enough true crime to think one plot point was extremely unlikely... and then it turned out that the being unlikely was DELIBERATE! I also always enjoy Archie the expert typist.
More of the same well crafted and can not put down - must read one more chapter tale by the master on Nero Wolfe.
Well done. These characters are growing on me.
As always with Nero Wolfe stories, a great read I couldn’t put down until the end.
34 books and Rex Stout is still able to make changes to his formula and keep these books interesting.
This was a good one. It is hardly my favorite though. Better than many of the short ones. I had the murderer pegged too early on. Although the motives were impossible to guess.
Another outstanding book! I enjoyed Archie’s role a lot.
One of the more clever plots in the Wolfe canon.
That is to say...a heavy bronze statue of the historical statesman (whose base was unsteady) toppled over and killed him in what seems to be an accident.When Mrs. Vail's son comes to Wolfe wanting to hire him to find the ransom money (his mother has promised him the cash if he can locate it), the genius, satisfied with his recent fee, plans to turn him down.
Wolfe can't do without Archie and takes the case--of course, he can't get involved with out solving the other crimes as well and it takes a rather ingenious "final deduction" to collar the criminal.I thoroughly enjoyed listening to this on my six-hour (round-trip) journey to and from my parents' house this past weekend.
Wolfe and Archie both conclude that she was part of the kidnapping plot.After the money drop, the husband is returned alive, but soon afterwards the secretary and the hush and are both murdered while Wolfe and Archie find themselves in a spot as their client had told them not to tell about the kidnapping until 48 hours after it occurred.However, along with trouble comes opportunity.
Wolfe's reason for accepting the 2nd case was that if he managed to collect, he'd work himself into the 80% Tax Bracket.
His clients were in the slightly higher 91% tax bracket.
Rex Stout handles it all well – suspects, clues, motives, and detection – right down to the scene where Nero Wolfe, with sidekick Archie Goodwin and the reader looking on, Explains It All. What sets Stout apart from the other Golden Age writers who also do it well is his bifurcation of the detective into two people.
Their bickering and needling of one another, and Archie’s mordant asides to the reader about his employer, also suggest a couple who, after years of marriage, have neither secrets from or illusions about one another.Stout’s join portrait of his two lead characters, combined with his richly detailed depiction of life in Manhattan at the dawn of the 1960s, helped to raise The Final Deduction out of the realm of “diverting, but not gripping” which is where Golden Age whodunits usually fall for me.
Despite being overly contrived in some aspects, the telling here is so above average that it is easily able to leap past the rather awkwardly placed gaps in the plot.Problems: (view spoiler)[There is no plausible reason for the wife to come to Nero Wolfe in the matter of her husband's kidnapping EXCEPT to cover herself as an accomplice.
The over-involvement of the secretary in the details of the kidnap plot reveal her too early as an accomplice The breezy return of the husband to the summer house reveals him too early as a conspiratorDeath by bronze statue?
(hide spoiler)]No matter.
Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin are back at it again when Althea Vail approaches them to help her retrieve her husband who has been kidnapped and is being ransomed for a half million dollars.
Archie does all of the leg work, and Nero never leaves the house but is able to deduce things in his head in his own mercurial manner.As far as mysteries go, this one was fairly mediocre.
On the other hand, it moved at a good pace and was pretty entertaining.
Although this isn’t the best Nero Wolfe book I’ve read, I still found it worth reading.Carl Alves – author of Conjesero
