https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/402015.Dancing_in_My_Nuddy_Pants
I really have got the Cosmic Horn badly...
What Type of ‘Horn’ Do You Have?
Listen up chums and pals!
Here is a test to determine what type of Horn you have.
If you don't understand what I am saying, then you are le stupid and must read these books as soon as possible.
Leave your results in the comments section!1.
You have a boyfriend who you have been seeing for a while now.
Things are getting more serious.
One night you go to the bar and see a cute guy.
You think:a.
I’d like to snog him to within an inch of my lifeb.
He’s cute, I do f
He’s cute, I do fancy him, but I’m already snogging a Sex Godc.
You are still with said boyfriend (the Sex God), when you see your mate walking around with a cute guy you snogged back in the day.
Feel badly, and think that he’s kind of cute, but you’re still dating a Sex Godc.
You may or may not flaunt your red bottomosity and snog your friends’ boyfriends, but you are not yet to the point where you would fancy everything in the universe.
And think your best mate, who has a touch of the red bottomosity about her, is awful for  accidentally snogging her friend’s boyfriend.
Therefore, he's named X, as only the most secret of identities deserve to be called.)The Voice of Reason: Sure.Brother: 'Till he dies.Sister: Yes. Then I can put his picture on my mantelpiece next to my scented candles.The Voice of Reason: You can do that now, too.
The Voice of Reason: By the way, they will never let you have candles in your room.Sister: Sure they will.X: No candles in the rooms.
Add to that the fact that my father is being a real Vati right now, and it might seem that Georgia and I have some things in common.
Therefore, I've appointed myself as Georgia Nicolson's life coach.
full of hilariosity as always, my ship had saiiiiiiiiiiiled!
I flicked through it and found a bit to read to the rest of the gang."'He captivated women with his fierce, proud face, his lean, well-exercised body and his aura of sexuality, wild as that of a stallion.'"Rosie said, "That's like Sven."Jas said, "What, he's like a stallion?""Yes.""Quel number have you got up to now with le stallion in loons on the scoring system?" I asked."Eight." Upper-body fondling indoors.
All of our eyes drifted towards Rosie's basoomas, which, it has to be said, are not gigantic.Ellen said, "Is it, does it...
3.5 stars as always! Good grief, Georgia is such a bad friend tbh. SO inconsiderate and selfish actually, but she is so funny I find myself laughing out loud multiple times by things she says.So eventhough she annoys me, she also amuses me. This series reaaaally is an easy-to-read, fast paced series. It's perfect for when you don't know what to read and just want something quick and light.
This series is fun, but this one wasn't as laugh out loud funny as the others. Georgia is a terrible person, but really embarrassing things happen to her constantly, so I am here for it.
I think this book is my favorite in the series.
The imagery is absolutely wonderful.
M’sieur Call Me Henri, the French student teacher.
Libby’s “fwend” Mr. Cheese—“a bit of old Edam in a hat.” I wonder if Terry Pratchett borrowed from the idea when he created Horace, the Lancre Blue cheese, thief and troublemaker that sports the Nac Mac Feegle clan tartan skirt.
So cute!Favorite moments/lines:“We set off with Gorgey Henri for the Eiffel Tower.
No sign of hunchbacks, though.
So… with a marvelous display of imaginosity… the ace gang got into their hunchback gear (haversacks under coats)…shuffling around and yelling, ‘The bells, the bells.”
It wasn't too bad but nothing really happened in this one.
Not my favourite of the series but still not one to skip!
This was all good fun, but didn't really advance the plot a whole lot. It's too bad Robbie's leaving for New Zealand but that means that Dave the Laugh will get his chance to shine! And everything will be fantastic, except P Green will still be nauseating. At least the Bummer twins are in deep shit for stealing.I'm gonna miss Sven until he comes back from whichever Nordic country he belongs to.
I rate almost every book in Confessions of Georgia Nicolson series 3 stars but, believe me, those are 3 good stars. I freaking love this series.
YAY! My first reread using the reread feature on Goodreads!
Even though I skipped from the first book to the fourth I had no trouble following the story (that's the beauty of these funny and light books) and of coarse I enjoyed it very much.
I started to get bored and didn’t have much of a laugh.
These books are so much fun!
They make me laugh, but it has so many ploy twists that sometimes confused me.“Everyone is so obsessed with themselves nowadays that they have no time for me.”This time around, Georgia is having much doubts and I kind of did not like all the doubts she had, but thats the teenage life.
Ellen is rating Dave the Laugh (which makes Georgia a little uncomfortable).
I haven't put back my Italian cakey, but I have accidentally picked up a Dave the Tart.”This book was certainly a trip, because too many things happened and I'm still a little shocked of the outcome.
De sus amigas ni que hablar, Georgia las hace ver tan nulas que sería una burla nombrar a una por una, son tontas como la querida Georgia, qué más decir de ellas.Todo término usado en la historia me exasperaba y la forma en que se narraba era para darse en la cara, no sé si la culpa la lleva el que haya leído una traducción cualquiera, pero la cosa es que cada palabra fue un 'UGHHH' constante.Siempre que leo un libro necesito conectar aunque sea con el más mínimo detalle para que me llegue a gustar y Rennison no lo hizo para mí con esta serie.
Don't get me wrong, I love these books, but it seems like the same things happen to Georgia over and over again.
She's still dating the Sex God, but then Dave the Laugh comes along and snogs her and shes as confused as ever.
FOR GOD SAKES WOMAN, IF YOU WANT TO BE WITH DAVE, JUST DUMP THE SEX GOD ALREADY.
I especially loved the obsession her and the Ace Gang had (or still have, considering he's still there in the books) on the new French teacher.
Speaking of breasts, Georgia is me when I was her age.
follows Georgia as she balances being the girlfriend of a pop-star sex god and maintaining a purely platonic relationship with Dave the Laugh, who's now dating her friend Ellen.
In this book, Georgia and her friends take a class trip to Paris with gorgeous teacher Henri.
She's dating a sex god, she goes to his gigs and band practices.
Even though she's got the boyfriend of her dreams, Georgia can't help but find her lips attached to Dave the Laugh's...again and again!
Quelle dommage!This fourth book in the series explores Georgia's continued confusion over her feelings for Dave the Laugh, and her constant infatuation with Robbie.
Georgia is trying her "Glacosity" theory, but keeps showing signs of "Red-Bottomosity".
Dave the Laugh just told her that he is in love with her, even though he's going out with Ellen, one of Georgia's mates.
Then out of the blue, Dave dumps Ellen, who only starts sniffling after everything you ask her, and is just a complete mess.
Always in the life of Georgia, things don't always go as planned.I loved this book, not only because it shows how most teens feel with their hormones at this stage of life, but also because I can sort of relate to Georgia.
Hilariously funny in Georgia Nicolson style but I was hoping there'd be more snogging with Dave!
I'm anxiously awaiting Book 5!In all seriousness, though, I think Louise Rennison did something special by creating this character.
Georgia is so easy to relate to.
I think the relationships between her and her friends are very realistic and I could identify with how she was feeling about the Robbie-Dave love triangle.
I think there's a certain amount of honesty to this book that it almost doesn't get credit for.
I am loving Mutti and Vati in these books, too.
Georgia is at it again, using her absurd charm and wisdomosity to navigate a class trip to Paris, sticky-out elbows, and the splendid but troubled waters of being the girlfriend of a Sex God in Dancing in My Nuddy-Pants.
I distinctly remember this volume for the uninhibited, nuddy-pants display by Georgia at the end, and it was just as good the second time around.
But at her heart, Georgia is self-absorbed, bad at keeping her red-bottom in check, and ridiculous, and we love her for being herself.
3.5/5I didn't love this one as much, even though I should as Georgia is at her wittiest (top humerosity) in this volume.
As always Georgia reminds me of a few things: love and value your friends, love yourself, play pranks on everyone...
I mean, find humour in just about it all.On to: Away Laughing on a Fast Camel which I think is the last time readers see these great covers, Georgia travels to Hamburgeragogo land, annnnnnnnndddd....
more laughs, I hope?
it's pure fluffy hilarious reminds-you-of-being-a-teenager fiction.
At first, I didn't really get these books.
I couldn't understand half of what was being said (British is not American) and the heroine seemed idiotic.
But now, a couple of books in, I understand a majority of what she's saying, the author has infused the books with jokes that you'll only get if you've read the previous books (which I enjoy), and I realize that Georgia is just a 15 year old.
What surprised me the most about these books are the small, sweet moments that sneak in around the craziness.
Read these if you're looking for a British Judy Blume.
Genre:relationships, boys, defying authority, etcSummary:"even further confessions of Georgia Nicolson" The main crux of this entry in the Georgia Nicolson diaries is she is torn between Robbie the Sex God or Dave the Laugh.
And at the end, Robbie goes off to New Zealand, so I am guessing she ends up with Dave, HOWEVER, there are like, 5 more books, so I am guessing that a lot more happens between now and then.
My question: what are these guys seeing in her?Response: Truth be told, I am rooting for Dave the Laugh.
I think he is funnier than Robbie and more appropriate for Georgia.
I felt like a loon on loon tablets reading Dancing in my Nuddy Pants.
You really have to read the book to get all the tres amusant words!
Georgia's adventure to Paree is vair vair funny and the love triangle of Georgia, Robbie the Sex God and Dave the Laugh comes to a satisfying conclusion (for now).
Dave the Laugh dumps Ellen, Robbie's off to Kiwi-a-gogo land and Dave and Georgia finally talk (which Robbie doesn't do much of) and snog (which is all Robbie ever does)!
I was a rooter for Robbie but he doesn't get Georgia at all, Dave the Laugh does!
*Celebratory disco dancing*
Humorosity!!! Another funny addition to the Georgia Nicholson series. This installment was more interesting than book 3 because more things happened. There was a trip to Paris, Christmas, a break up, boyfriends leaving the country... It was just as funny as the others as well. This book provides little, if any back story, so it is really important to read them in order. There are tons of little "inside" jokes that just will not be funny at all if you haven't read the other books. I am really enjoying this series because they are easy reads and quite humorous.
Heather StewartHumorFourth in the series and written from the perspective of an English teenage girl, the language alone makes you chuckle.
It is written in the format of a diary and talks about Georgia’s adventures in an all girl school and her boyfriend, the Sex God. She dreams of going on tour with him and his band to America.
I was expecting this book to be laugh out loud funny but it wasn’t all that humorous.
I didn’t think it had much of a plot to it but that may be a welcome concept for someone trying to escape life’s daily troubles.
As was the case with the first book in the series, this one was funny and ridiculous (but on purpose).
Georgia has some hilarious observations, but I can't look past the fact that she is rather annoying and even stupid at times.
I hate how she loses every sane thought in her head every time she is around her boyfriend.
It's kind of sad, really.
I realize that she's a teenager with raging hormones, but there are a lot of smart teens out there.
She's not very relatable.
I also hate the way she constantly rags on her parents and best friend.
