https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/426454.The_Summer_of_the_Great_Grandmother
Perhaps, if I had not spent 20 days this summer at a hospice house this book would only have 4 stars but for me this is the summer of the great grandfather and not a word was wasted.
Five whole stars worth of words.
Sometimes I almost fall into it and this book was like that for me.
I cannot go too long without hearing the surf either, Madeleine.
It has been too long, thank-you for the much needed visit.
Madeleine, herself, is now gone, but this summer I am reading and living her book.
I am thankful not to be alone.
In this second volume of The Crosswicks Journal (after A Circle of Quiet), L’Engle recounts her family history as a way of remembering on behalf of her mother, who at age 90 was slipping into dementia in her final summer.
“I talked awhile, earlier this summer, about wanting my mother to have a dignified death.
“This summer is practice in dying for me as well as for my mother.”One of the reasons L’Engle was driven to write science fiction was because she couldn’t reconcile the idea of permanent human extinction with her Christian faith, but nor could she honestly affirm every word of the Creed.
Madeleine L'Engle chronicles the last summer of her mother's life with love, honesty, and, yes, even her doubts. The loss of a beloved parent is one of the most difficult of life's experiences even though it is one of the most natural. I was deeply touched by L'Engle's struggle and quest for peace in this second journal of hers that I have read.
I had read other books my Madeleine like Wrinkle in Time and A Wind in the Door, but this book sounded entirely different. I don't remember now where I heard about it. I think it was mentioned in another book I was reading. Nevertheless, it was wonderful. My greatest take away was how important it is to share stories in our families. They will bless our lives.
This memoir is touching and brings up all the feels. Highly recommend
We had to say good-bye to our dog at the end of August, and reading this helped with some of the emotions that one goes through when one suffers a loss of any kind.
I read this mostly with my dad, and we both enjoyed L'Engle's writing, as usual, but we also enjoyed the stories about her great grandparents, grandparents, and parents.
The sections about her present time with her mother are sad and moving.
L'Engle does a good job of conveying her feelings of sadness and loss, the grieving that she went through before her mother even passed.
I am not a huge Madeleine L'Engle fan. This book is the second in a trilogy based at the author's home, Crosswicks, I believe. It gives quite a good history of her illustrious ancestors and talks a bit about her mother's declining health and dementia. I feel that maybe she was whitewashing things quite a bit. Not so much about her mother but about her own life and the life of her ancestors. Wouldn't recommend it-seemed very pretentious.
This is one of the first books I've read in a while that has let me cry - written beautifully, conveying emotions honestly and truthfully. I love L'Engle's autobiographical works. They make me feel a little bit "normal", and inspire me remarkably - to write, to read, even to do my homework!
The book is set during L'Engle's final summer with her mother, and it is obviously a bit sad at times, but never overly sentimental.
Quotes I liked:"There is little character or loveliness in the face of someone who has avoided suffering, shunned risk, rejected life." pg.
As long as I demand it, in myself or anybody else, I am not free, and all my life - I've believed that freedom is important, that, despite all our misuse and abuse of it, freedom is what makes us a little lower than the angels, crowned with glory and honor, according to the psalmist; how like a god, according to Shakespeare; freedom to remember, to share, to dream, to accept irrationality and paradox is what makes us human animals." pg.
I only read this one for book group.
I might have benefited by reading the first, only because my biggest complaint about the book is that the author refers to people at times and expects you to know who she is talking about.
I am going to assume she introduces those people to us in the first book.
The book deals with the real life feelings and struggles of watching a parent enter a second childhood or senility.
The book picks up dramatically as she introduces us to the mother that she knew and didn't know in the second and third section.
This book caught my eye today as I browsed the eclectic collection of new and used books at Green Mountain Books in Lyndon, Vermont. I was introduced to L'Engle's non-fiction by my friend, Carol, who lent me Tow Part Invention, a wonderful portrait of a marriage. This book is supposed to address aging, a topic that both intrigues and repels me as I make my way through my sixties and towards the next chapter of my life.
Own.Much to consider. What is the essence of a person, the ousia? A wonderful follow-up to A Circle of Quiet. L'Engle wrestles with life, death, identity, and the soul. I particularly loved the section of her mother's ancestry and the stories of the people in her family tree. I loved their informal education.
While I didn't find this as strong as her other non-fiction, I really enjoyed her account of taking care of her mother in her last days. She openly discusses the grieving process, including the memories that flood you during this time. The mid-section is these memories, which is not as interesting as the beginning and end, hence the three star review.Highly recommended, however.
Sweet, nostalgic and very autobiographical. I love the way L'Engle finds the common thread that runs through the generations of her family--and I'm dead jealous that her ancestors stories weren't some deep, dark embarrassing secret. This inspires me to delve into my genealogical closet…
Terrific!
L'Engle's glimpse into her life as a writer, wife, parent and friend was refreshing as I tried to juggle all of the balls.The Summer of the Great-Grandmother was most interesting to me because of living in the southern city she refers to in her writing.
Her family tree and the stories about her family were fascinating and her overall theme hit home- how do we honor and care for our parents and grandparents that leaves them with dignity?
When is a death, when people live longer and longer- a happy release for both the old person and those who survive?
This is a very touching book about the final summer spent with the four generations of L'Engle's family in ther summer home; it being (unknoweinlgy at that time) her mother's final summer.
L'Engle is dealing with the reality of her mother's physical decline, as well as her mental decline due to dementia.
L'Egnle has a way with word pictures that blows me away when it comes to describing issues of dementia and being a daughter and a care giver.
Much abouk has he'ped me in facing and dealing with my own mother's having Alzheimer's and my issues as a care giver.
I would give this book all 5 glorious, glowing stars but for the fact that i think it's appeal is limited.
The book may not have been so relevant to me at an earlier age.
Now, with parents gone and even friends dying, the subject of life and death, guilt and relationships, and even spirituality, have grown into their true and enormous importance.
When we understand that our parents are people apart from their role as parent, it allows them to be more accepted and appreciated, I think.
It follows, then, that we can look at our own roles as parents and feel better about what we did for our own children.
This is an intimate and honest report about a woman watching her mother's health deteriorating and praying for her death. I have met countless women in these circumstances, worrying and fearing the approaching aging of their mothers. Madeleine LÉngle does not see it through pink glasses, she is facing the musik and she is honest to a fault.
It is books like The Summer of the Great-Grandmother that help me to remember my passion for touching the past.
I can relate to author Madeline L'Engle's journey to get to know better the woman who is the "great-grandmother" in this story as L'Engle documents her own mother's life ebbing away.
All this in a day and age when the understanding of human anatomy & medicine was far less illuminated than it is today.Towards the end of her book, L'Engle had me reeling in thoughtful amazement at the concept of being remembered.
L'Engle's memoir of the summer her 90-year-old mother took a steep decline into dementia (and ultimately passed away).
Some parts were eerily, almost uncomfortably familiar -- both the ways her mother is affected by her dementia and L'Engle's reactions to the situation.
If this is not something you've experienced, I don't know whether this book would touch you the way it touched me, though L'Engle's gift of storytelling makes it possible.
The characters are complex and deep; L'Engle must have a gift of understanding other people to bring them alive the way she does.
From "Now Reading" by Literary Mama staff:Only a month after moving back to my home state of Georgia, I was excited to be able to attend the Decatur Book Festival, the largest independent book festival in the US.
I happily snagged A Lost Lady, Willa Cather's novel about an unconventional woman, Home Economics, Wendell Berry's collection of essays on our stewardship responsibility, and Madeleine L'Engle's The Summer of the Great-Grandmother.
But given the decline of both of my grandmothers' health this year—a primary reason for my move home—it's the latter book that is holding my attention the most.
In other words, my life story couldn't have happened without the stories of my mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, and so on.
I embody many characteristics of these great women in my life.
Perhaps knowing the stories of these women would enhance those wonderful qualities within myself.
The most fascinating idea that came from this book was on the subject of memory.
We can try are best to remember family members and pass on their stories, but no matter how persistent we are, eventually those stories are lost.
Our memories become dust and are erased from this earth.
But then I remember God.
I've read several of her novels for the first time as an adult and thought they were wonderful (The Joys of Love and A Ring of Endless Light, for example).
This was the first nonfiction book I've read by her, and while it is full of many poignant moments about treasuring the time we have with loved ones and insights about family love, conflict, and grief, overall I found Parts 2 and 3 (the middle two parts, out of four) to be dull.
I recommend reading Parts 1 and 4 and skipping the middle.
I prefer to read these journal books of L'Engle's slowly, a chapter a day or so, to let her words sink in and to mull around in the back of my brain.
I do this because she has a unique gift to get to the essence of things, people, and periods of life, she finds the ousia and shares it with her readers.
That gift was especially important with this book as she shares about the process of her mother aging and dying.
I can't help but think that our generation is losing out when we care more about our Facebook feeds then the stories of our grandparents and the times when people mattered more than technology.
I think of this as a quiet book, contemplative in nature.
This reminiscence of Madeline L'Engle's is a tribute to her mother the last summer of her mother's life, but encompasses much of the tender challenges, reflections and memory as we accompany any loved one at the end of living into a time of crossing over.
This is not a book to be rushed, though it is not long, but the reflective nature needs time to be honored and brought in to spirit.
There have been several Montague - Capulet schisms in my mother's family, but I have never heard an unloving word about Mado."Part memoir, part remembrance and entirely a story.
About how she viewed her parents and how she and her mother dealt with her father's death.
Understanding where her mother came from and the forces that shaped her life - her times, her very different Southern culture, her family.
Stories and brief vignettes bring to life Madeline's mother's family and ancestors.Well worth the read, this short but very emotionally genuine book."If she cried alone at night she does not say.
Like the first Crosswicks book, this one provides a warm, candid, and thoughtful entry into the private life of L'Engle and her family-- but where that volume was fairly rollicking and free-wheeling in its reflections on faith, art, and mystery, this one is quite a bit more structured.
I probably enjoyed the first book in the series a little bit more, but this one is invaluable in how it tackles with the tangled web of family, identity, endings, loss, and new beginnings.
There are times when you need an old familiar book, when you know what it has to say to you is exactly right.
This was one of those times.Not only does Madeleine discuss the rapid deterioration of her mother (who was ill with senility due to atherosclerosis -- some similarities, my grandmother had dementia) but she talks at great length about her family history, which was colorful.
It was neat to read that and then go to Bishop, WV, for some of my own family history.She also discusses how little it feels one can do at such times, and about feeling guilty and how we must overcome that.
A great book that everyone with aging adults, or with elderly parents who have recently passed, should read.
The book is written during the final summer of L'Engle's mother's life, detailing her decline into senility and death.
In this, the second of the Crosswick's Journal, the dignity of the elderly is affirmed.
At the same time all the problems, frustrations, guilt and pain of watching her mother's slide into senility are poignantly described.
Although the book centers on the decline and death of an aged parent, in reality it focuses on life by examining many attitudes today's society holds about the aged.
