https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39507.The_Sins_of_the_Fathers
So the case is closed, and Scudder's client—the dead girl's father—doesn't wanted it reoopened: he just wants to find out what his daughter's life was like.
Now he needs Scudder to uncover a few facts and details so that he may reconstruct a more realistic memory.The book consists of three parts: 1) an investigation into the life of the dead girl, which leads to 2) the discovery of the motive for the crime, and 3) an account of Scudders plan to bring a rough kind of justice to this "open-and-shut" case.
As I suggested in my original review, this is the first book in my favorite of all crime fiction series.
Although the character will continue to grow and develop over the course of the series, the first chapter essentially tells you everything you would ever need to know about the man.Scudder is an ex-cop who left the force for very personal reasons.
A few days earlier, Hanniford's daughter, Wendy, had been savagely murdered in the apartment she shared with a young man named Richard Vanderpoel.
The police arrested him and less than forty-eight hours later, the young man hanged himself in his cell.The police have closed the case and Hanniford accepts their obvious conclusion that Vanderpoel killed his daughter.
Standing among the crowd of burned out, “ex-cop,” morally suspect private investigators inside the dingy, cluttered, dimly lit literary bar called "Mysteries," Matt Scudder manages to stand out and sparkle shine, despite his seeming overabundance of unassumingness.
Matt Scudder is an onion (thank you for that analogy SHREK) and his layers are many.
Now, Scudder works as an unlicensed private investigator, continues to drink his corn-mash and coffee combo and his only real friends are the police captain who sends him referrals (for a fee) and the hooker he spends time with occasionally.
But, after reading seven of his novels since the middle of October I'm starting to feel confident that even when he's writing a mediocre book (and he wrote a shit ton of books so they aren't all going to be home runs) he is writing at pretty much a whole different level from most of his peers (Westlake and Ellroy as exceptions).
I think it's quite possible Lawrence Block might be one of the best writers out there and he's been hiding from me in plain sight for years.
When call girl is murdered and her roommate/killer hangs himself in prison, the girl's wealthy stepfather hires Matthew Scudder to investigate the girl's past and find out why her life ended the way it did.
Scudder's investigations lead him through a web of sex and lies...Wow. Lawrence Block always keeps me entertained but this was one hell of a read.
I figured Scudder would unearth some bad things in his quest.
Come on, how can you not unearth bad things when you're investigating the death of a call girl?
He has a sense of law and order and justice about him that keeps him interesting.
3.5.
He drinks constantly and occasionally engages the services of prostitutes.Doesn’t sound like the hero of a long running detective series, does he?What’s great about Scudder is that while someone could get on their high horse and look down their nose at the way he lives, Matt is actually a deeply moral man who broods about the nature of good and evil while trying to figure out where he fits into that battle.
Take the money.”Despite being written in first person, we don’t get much introspection into what Scudder is thinking or feeling other than tidbits like this that Block sprinkles throughout the book.
Then Carol comes along and starts blasting through the Scudder books like they're made of chocolate rolled in potato chips.
And if I needed one more reason to sanction this virgin foray into Scudder territory, I got it when the edition I picked up featured an introduction by my man Stephen King.
Much more vital to the story is our introduction to weary, troubled, lonesome ex-cop Matt Scudder and his booze-soaked life in the Big Apple.
People come to Scudder with questions they want answered.
I don’t know if watching this botched cinematic attempt to capture Lawrence Block’s character tempered my desire to pursue the books, but I can honestly say I’m sorry I waited so long to re-boot my interest in the series.Although the plot is a good one (it revolves around Scudder’s attempt to bring some closure to the brutal murder of girl who moonlights as a hooker) and predictable, its Block’s laying the literary foundation for Scudder’s character (this is the first book in the series) that’s fascinating.Scudder is the divorced father of two and a guy with serious drinking and rage issues.
“Hello, darkness my old friend.”For some reason the Scudder books are hard to find in my area, but I did manage to pick up two more over the weekend, so let’s go stare into the great, black nebulous hole that’s gaining traction in Matt Scudder’s soul.
Once upon a time I picked up a Lawrence Block book.
Now I'm hooked.Scudder debuted in 1976's The Sins of the Fathers as an alcoholic ex-cop who had recently quit the NYPD and left his family after accidentally causing the death of a young girl.
Living in a rent-controlled hotel room in Hell's Kitchen, he earns his living as an unlicensed private investigator—or, as he puts it, "doing favors for friends." - WikipediaScudder's not a prototypical "lovable" guy and yet I love him.
What I would give to hang out, have a beer and shoot the shit with this guy!
Oh the stories he could tell!Block has spun a solid yarn here with The Sins of the Fathers.
The Sins of the Fathers: Lawrence Block's First Matt Scudder Novel Dell First Edition, 1976 "The sins of the father are to be laid upon the children."--William Shakespeare, The Merchant of Venice, Act Three, Scene Five, Line One All right. I admit it. I'm turning 60 in two days. And I've never read Lawrence Block. How could this happen, all you Block fans ask?Lawrence Block introduced Matt Scudder to the world of detective fiction in 1976. No, I wasn't on an extensive Bi-Centennial celebration.
The Sins of the Fathers: Lawrence Block's First Matt Scudder Novel
How could this happen, all you Block fans ask?Lawrence Block introduced Matt Scudder to the world of detective fiction in 1976.
You wonder how many times he's lit one for Estrelita Rivera.In Scudder's first case two fathers each lose a child, one a son, the other a daughter.
Scudder bluntly tells Hanniford he may be opening doors he doesn't want opened, but Hanniford has to know.It's an apparent open and shut case.
He knows how to tell a story.Scudder is Block's most enduring character.
Decent characterization, a serviceable investigation and the seedy side of 1970s New York all contribute to a fast read.The first book in a long-running series introduces Matthew Scudder, a 15 year veteran of NYPD who retired after an accidental shooting of a seven-year-old girl.
I found his quiet wrestling with issues of good and evil a nice twist.Aspects to the story feel dated, but less so than most.
"Nymphomaniac" was banded about on one occasion by a character other than Scudder, and there is no more certain way to date a detective book than 70s psychology.
Dead son and a dead daughter.Father and son, Father and daughter all have a dark past and all weigh up in the play of good and evil.Suicide is tragic and a last call out of turmoil and distress, it’s a sin even Scudder knows that otherwise he himself confesses to contemplating taking that road.
Scudder ex-cop turned Private Investigator was on the force for almost sixteen years divorced with kids, he works as infrequently as he can for now and in no need for money, he has a cheap room and lives on modest day to day expenses.Scudder takes on a case and is investigating the death of a girl and the suicide of her caught killer.
Scudder is a hard boiled detective in a world gone by before the Internet, mobile phones, openly bribing police.
The narrator was good but not great, at times it was hard to differentiate between who was talking and he had a weird way of really extending the length of saying "yeeeeeeeesssss" or "nooooooooooo".
(hide spoiler)].I'm really keen to continue the series and read more about Scudder and see what the author has to offer.
I'll continue the series in audiobook format for now due to the length, let's see if I can get a 5 star out of these!
I hope that's the case, anyway - not because the first book wasn't great, but rather because it gives me something to look forward to as I read through them.
I shouldn't say that, because it's not the approved way of things, but I liked it all the same.
I'm chalking this up to the same kind of thing, since the edition that I read was put out in the 90s, when the book would have been almost 20 years old already.
I really enjoyed the first book, and I can't wait to hook up with Scudder again.
I think what I dig most about Scudder is how he treats others.
I dig the way this guy writes, and I dig the author as a person.
But what I dig most about his Scudder series is how Matthew Scudder evolves over the years.
This first book is a great place to start, but you can read any book in this series out of order, another aspect I love about Block's work.The audiobooks narrated by Alan Sklar are excellent.
Highly recommended.In summation: If you like P.I. stories and haven't tried Block's Scudder novels, do yourself a solid and pick one up.
I needed a hole to fill the VOID left by my consumption of the John Connolly Charlie Parker series.
Until then, I needed a detective series of substance.
A character so cool, so awesome, that I could branch out from Charlie Parker into another series.
I've actually had this book on my to-read list for several months now.
I mean, it's not like Kemper, Dan or Stephen had been singing it's praises up and down Goodreads.
He's like a hooker with a heart of gold.
I actually picked up the second installment today and I intend to start on that ASAP.
It’s not that often I delve into the noir-ish side of crime, though it’s not because I have anything particular against it — the whole class of casually drinking, smoking and screwing detectives with cynical attitudes don’t repel me, whether it be Brandstetter, Philip Marlowe or Sam Spade.
And despite the cynicism, Scudder tithes to local churches, keeps an open mind about people, and doesn’t judge.
There are some noir detectives I don’t want to spend a minute more with — Mike Hammer, for example — but Matt seems basically decent, and never too convinced that that’s the case.
If you're entering the world of Matthew Scudder, you better brace yourself for some dark and delicious detective work.
I don't know why I keep wanting to use adjectives normally reserved for coffee blends to describe this book.
Scudder is neither hero nor villain; he goes by his own rules and defies what might be considered conventional morality while sifting through a world where it's hard to starkly delineate right from wrong.
I wanted this book to last me more than a day, but, like Matt, I felt compelled to keep on digging.I don't know how to deal with spoiler-y material from a tablet, so I'll just say that the tale is slightly more twisted than (what I imagine) you might find in your average 70s noir.
Lawrence Block does it again!The man sure can write.
Block once more lets us know that we are not alone with our foibles and psychological angst, everyone else suffers similarly whether they admit it or not.The slim nature of the book means you can fly through it but it still packs a punch, however perhaps a little more depth is required to fully comprehend the nature of the man and the crimes.
I did start well into the series with the book that was made into a movie with Liam Neeson, and continued into the direction of the more recent publications.
And now I found myself with the first novel of the series in which there is no AA but a lot of drinking by Matthew Scudder former policeman turned into investigator of the not so legal variety.
When call girl is murdered and her roommate/killer hangs himself in prison, the girl's stepfather hires Matthew Scudder to investigate what made the girl chose the life she did after "running away" from home.
A decent start of a series.
The publisher was Dark Harvest in Arlington Heights, Illinois, not one that I have ever run across before.This is the first book in the Matthew Scudder series.
Scudder also fairly nonchalantly breaks into an apartment, the murder scene.Scudder is now working informally as an unlicensed private investigator who is paid off the books, under the table and doesn’t do any of the routine administrative tasks of recordkeeping that you might associate with running your own business.
Maybe that happens with books that have a first printing in paperback only.How did Scudder see his financial arrangements with the people who hired him?
Never got around to reading Block though, he could wait.
My loss, my loss especially since I’ve had plenty of opportunities; he’s been writing since the 1950’s and this book, The Sins of the Fathers, was published in 1976.
The storyline itself is simply one of the best I’ve read in many, many books.
The father of the murdered woman asks Scudder to delve into his daughter’s life the past three years that she has been absent from the family.
The ending is by far one of the best, if not the best ending of any book I’ve ever read.
The Sins of the Fathers.
Now, if you hadn't read this yet, like I hadn't, wouldn't you think you knew who the killer was?
It was (view spoiler)[the minister that was the father of the suicide victim (hide spoiler)].
He may as well title his next novel The Butler Did It for all the suspense this title gave the story.
However, having now read the novel, I like the title more, despite that it gives away the killer, because it also points out the sins the other fathers are guilty of, which gave the title, and the novel, some added depth.
I've listened to another in this series, so it was nice to listen to the first one.
Typical Block, very understated.
Scudder is likable if a rather aimless character.
The mystery was OK, a little obvious, but not bad at all.
The way Scudder solved it was perfect.
I have the next book in the series, but I'm reading another mystery in paperback & don't like having 2 books of the same genre going at the same time.
Scudder is a good way to pass the time, but I can't work up a lot of excitement for most of Block's books.
Well, hell, I guess I'm going to have to read this series now too.
I have read several of Mr. Block's books over the years, now plan to go at them - in order - and try to catch up.
What he finds, though, as he 'looks into things' becomes complex in both physical - and psychological - ways, which at first stump Scudder.Saying more gets into spoiler territory, but this is a great, first, quick read from Mr. Block.
(Another good writer won instead.) And though, I'm way behind on this series and other books by him, I have now him on my 'must read' list.Five stars.
Another BR with Manju.Have been wanting to read a Mathew Scudder book for long..
and it was a short but satisfactory read.A young girl who had left her loving home and had questionable means of earning livelihood is murdered by bloodbath.
and within a few hours, commits suicide.The girl's father wants to know the reason behind these unseeming acts.
He employs Mathew Scudder, who gets to the core of the matter.Enjoyed this tale of love gone astray and longings never satisfied.
Guessed at the killer as well as the reason behind it by about approx 60% ...
A pretty young woman is found in a pool of blood; she’s been slashed repeatedly with a sharp instrument.
Her male roommate is found on the street nearby, covered in her blood, exposing himself and babbling incoherently.
But the dead girl's father has come to Matthew Scudder, an ex-cop and unlicensed private investigator, hoping for answers; he’s been somewhat estranged from his daughter and he wants to know how she came to be in this setting.
What I really loved about the book was Scudder himself.
I want to get to know Matthew Scudder better.
Also if I wasn’t on official business, that meant she didn’t have to feel compelled to waste her time on me.
The system takes you through it a step at a time.
the story takes place in 1973." 31.0% "...
I couldn’t see his eyes, but his face was troubled, wrapped up in chains of good and evil.
there's a kind of calm sadness in this book, in the fate of the characters, in Scudder.
We turned out to be good for each other.
For a stitch of time all the hard questions went away and hid in dark places."
