https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/509048.The_Americans
Actually of all the Kent Family Chronicle books, this was took me the longest to read, however; it was one the of the best. I absolutely love the story and is so very well written. Kudos to the author for a job well done.
Conclusion of a long series. Now I'll never no the outcome of the lives of Will, Eleanor, and Carter. And of any Kent children to follow. A truly fascinating series from pre-revolutionary USA to near the end of the 19th Century.
The last of the Kent chronicles series. LOVED THEM ALL!
Because it was on sale.
Well I finished the 8 volume set of the Kent Family Chronicles. This takes the Kent family up to 1897. The book deals with Carter, Eleanor and Will. A little disappointed because it was pretty predictable.I enjoyed Will's summer with a young Theodore Roosevelt and the Johnstown flood Eleanor went through.I would love to see Jakes update the Kent family but I doubt he will do that though.
It took me forever to read the last installment in this series - not because I didn't enjoy it, but because I didn't want it to end.
Reading historical fiction should be fun. The Americans  by John JakesJohn Jakes certainly was. This is the eighth and (possibly) last volume of the Kent Family Chronicles. Like a patchwork blanket, Jakes sews facts and people in very neatly to his Kent family epic. The children of Gideon and Matthew Kent migrate homeward and make their marks in an increasingly great and influential country. From the sleazy and squalid world of politics and the increasingly acceptable of the stage to the battlef
From the sleazy and squalid world of politics and the increasingly acceptable of the stage to the battlefields of Mexico, The Americans brings the Kent heirs to the brink of the Twentieth Century.
Ina Coolbirth was California’s first poet laureate and the Johnstown flood (1889) rates fourth in deaths by natural disaster behind Galveston, Texas hurricane on September 18,1900 (8000+), San Francisco, California earthquake 1906 (3400+), The Great Okeechobee, Florida hurricane September 16-17 (2500+).
In these pages history really comes alive and speaks to all that read it.
To all good stories there must be an "end" and this book is it. These were excellent tales (fiction) but could have been real stories of real Americans. Tragedy, comedy, love, hate, courage and cowardice all displayed by the frailties of human lives. Thank you, John Jakes, for a satisfying and enjoyable set of books!
I believe this is the conclusion of the Kent Family Chronicles. The tale of America from its pre revolutionary roots to the turn of the 20th century. The entire series is well worth the time invested. Jakes tells the story of our country through the eyes of an fictional family, history comes alive.
Fantastic end to a fantastic series. I rarely feel this way, but I didn't want it to be over. I'd love for there to be more books taking the Kents all the way through the 20th century, but that won't be happening.
Good finish to a very long tale. Doesn't fulfill the promise of taking the Kent family right on up to 1976 but that's okay. Enough of the Kents and time for something else. Enjoyed this series but man it is a commitment.Thanks to the author for keeping it going as long as he did.
I enjoyed all of the John Jakes Kent Chronicles. I've read them twice and wish he had continued the series. My only criticism was that he often skipped through years of events and I would prefer more info.
I love every John Jakes book I ever read. They are all page-turners.
Kent Family Chronicles Volume 8 Great Series - Sorry to see it end.
I finished all eight books in the Kent family series. Sure is a fun way to get a history lesson.
Honestly, this is how I truly learned American history. These books follow generations of the "Kents" and their lives in America.
The last book of the Kent Chronicles-Have enjoyed the journey very much.
Get absorbed in the drama.
While the “children” are struggling, Gideon is trying desperately for them to understand the importance of making a difference; he is also trying to figure out which child will lead the family in his absence.
Carter’s adventures to the West provide insight into the changing landscape while Eleanor’s life in the theater focuses on the arts and her experiences as she travels the country, finally Will takes readers into the slums of New York City as he studies and practices medicine.
Will each of them succeed in life just as Gideon hopes?
This book wraps up this family chronicle quite nicely.
I loved this series.
I didn't love each book as much as the other, and I didn't love each character, but John Jakes does a phenomenal job of putting you on the ground throughout a century of history and I felt I was able to learn a lot that I hadn't known and put certain events in the proper order.
He also placed the characters throughout the country–and a couple of them outside the country, including the founding member of the family–and portraying different personality types and different viewpoints.
I would recommended this series to anyone who loves history from the the late 18th through the late 19th century.
It has taken me several years to finish this series of 8 books.
I've learned a great deal about American History through these books plus enjoyed reading about the Kent family and how they handled each era of being in the "New World" and became Americans."The Americans" covers the years from 1883-1890.
Gideon Kent is the head of the Kent family and is stressed by the next generation and whether they will ADD to the Kent name or destroy it.
It was interesting to follow the 3 of them - Eleanor, Will and Carter--find their way in the world.Thank you, John Jakes, for a very enjoyable and informative series.
And so the Kent family chronicles come to an end in the late 1800s. I was quite disappointed how poor of a character Carter Kent turned out to be and was worried his stepbrother Will would follow in his footsteps. I was very glad that Will’s conscious got the better of him and turned him into a decent person. Eleanor kept on struggling and suffered a severe loss when her husband perished but even she made a full recovery to a fulfilled and happy life in the end. Overall, this was a very enjoyable series to read.
The whole series was wonderful. So interesting to read about all the generations of a family from start to the end. I wish there were more books in the series. Some family members you like, some you don’t. It’s great that not everyone is rosy and perfect. They are more realistic than several books I have read. Love it!!
The Americans gets four as a stand alone, but a five for being the final chapter of an amazing series. Already a favorite writer for the North and South trilogy, reading the Kent Family Chronicles, this was Jake's master stroke. I was impressed to find he wrote eight hefty volumes in only five years. The research is amazing and is a great trip through the American experience.
As always, I enjoyed this book. It was a long series but I found it well worth the read. Everything I had questions about was addressed in this final book and that's tough to do in series enders. Highly recommended. Good stuff.
Now that I have finished this book I am reviewing all 8 books in the series. I loved the historical fiction and each generation of the Kents. From revolutionary war to 1890's. Had it's share of danger, romance, expansion of the USA. Truly enjoyed the entire series.
A satisfying conclusion to this series, ending the saga of this family in 1890, and leaving their story behind as the 20th century is about to dawn. A few good twists and a lot of adventure. Overall, the entire series earns the praise it has received.
Loved this series. A wonderful way of learning history. I would like to see this carried forward to the present, with a focus on the rise of the power of the religious right.
Read in the 80s
Historical fiction at its bestJust finished this 8th book of the Kent family saga. I love the weaving of history into this family story. It is readable quickly moving. Great read.
