https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/557208.Five_Are_Together_Again
Good luck!Enid Blyton didn't know that this book was to be her last Famous Five book.
The book came out in 1964, and Enid Blyton would live a further 4 more years.
Unlike Dame Agatha Christie, Blyton retained most of her faculties when she neared death.I remember a 'Find Outers' Mystery book that was made of pretty poor plotting, but the last Famous Five book suffered no such limitations.
There is not one Enid Blyton book that I gave a 1 star rating to, and that makes her my most reliable author.
Well, it's been a long road (getting from there to here) but here we are at the end of the final Famous Five novel!
I mean, I'm not against the baddies getting iced in other types of books but it doesn't feel quite right in the Famous Five.To be honest, this probably doesn't deserve three stars but I couldn't bring myself to say farewell to this series with a two star rating after all the fun it's given us over the last year or so...Buddy read with Sunshine Seaspray...
The Last Famous Five Adventure9 January 2016 Well, here I am sitting in a car driving back to Melbourne (actually, to be precise I am in the passenger seat – my Dad is driving – even though the car has cruise control doesn't mean that I can write a book review and drive at the same time). Anyway, this is the last of the Famous Five books, and the last of the Enid Blyton books that I have slated to read (and no, the Naughtiest School Girl won't be one of those books I end up reading in the future
The Last Famous Five Adventure9 January 2016	Well, here I am sitting in a car driving back to Melbourne (actually, to be precise I am in the passenger seat – my Dad is driving – even though the car has cruise control doesn't mean that I can write a book review and drive at the same time).
So, the Five come together for one last adventure (though there is a suggestion at the end of the book that it might not be their last adventure, however we do know that after this one Enid Blyton didn't write any more), and they once again return to Kirin Cottage, which also means a return to Kirin Island.
Looking forward to a nice holiday at Kirrin, the Four children arrive there only to be told Joan, the cook, is ill with Scarlet Fever and the house is under quarantine.
Good thing his cook Jenny and Tinker remember, and the Five are camping in a field with circus folk nearby, coming to the house only for meals.
While they're there, some of Professor Hayling's precious scientific papers are stolen, and it's up to the Five to make sure the thieves don't get the rest.I like this book, but I wish that we had ended the series on Kirrin, even if I prefer when the five are away from there.
Anscheinend der letzte Band der Buchreihe - bei den Hörspielen aber die Nummer 5! Eine lustiges und spannendes Abenteuer der fünf Freunde. Und Georgie zeigt schön, dass ein Mädchen auch ohne Hilfe von Jungs die Bösen überlisten kann. :D [12.08.2018]

These books (Famous five) are hands down one of my favorite books from my childhood. All those adventures and mystery …and those sandwiches they always packed! aww, just the best! I would love to read one of these again. To bring back those memories..memories of first experiences with reading books.
Nice to see a minor character from a previous novel recurring in this one. Though I liked Demon's Rocks adventure more than this one.
The Famous Five series has always been my cherished books since I was about 6 or 7 I guess.
And to be able to read them again and go along with the Five as they solve another mystery was just wonderful :)This is the last book of the series and I don't think it was the best of the lot but still it was enjoyable.
Short and sweet, it was a wonderful trip down memory lane.
By the way, I still get hungry while reading these books, the food is really tempting, even today!!
The last in the series that was actually written by Blyton. I didn't really enjoy the continuation written by someone else. Well, it was just not the same. I was too familiarized with the "routine" by Enid Blyton. Probably she charmed me as a kid as J.K. Rowlings does to kids nowadays. Probably with different media coverage and financial success. Well, It just show us how the world has changed.All in all, reading famous five was part of my idyllic childhood memory. And most probably it was the first experience that got me into books and reading after all.
I really loved the famous five stories when I was a child and so did my children and Grandchildren.Storytelling at it's best. Highly recommended.
Judul : Lima Sekawan vol. 21 (Sirkus Misterius)Pengarang : Enid BlytonAlih Bahasa : Agus SetiadiPenerbit : PT Gramedia Pustaka UtamaTebal : 192 halamanLima Sekawan kembali lagi! Sekarang mereka berkemah di dekat rumah temannya, Utik, yang merupakan anak seorang ilmuwan ternama. Awalnya Utik marah karena ada rombongan sirkus keliling yang ikut berkemah di lapangan miliknya. Tapi setelah ayahnya membacakan dokumen perjanjian mengenai lapangan tersebut, Utik pun akhirnya bersedia berkemah berdekata
Tapi setelah ayahnya membacakan dokumen perjanjian mengenai lapangan tersebut, Utik pun akhirnya bersedia berkemah berdekatan dengan mereka.Awalnya perkemahan itu berjalan menyenangkan.
Mereka berencana untuk memalsukan dokumen rahasia itu dengan angka yang berbeda dan mengembalikannya ke kamar menara sedangkan dokumen asli akan dibawa ke Pulau Kirrin—pulau milik George.
Tapi George tidak berjalan-jalan melainkan pergi ke Pulau Kirrin bersama Timmy.
Dan dengan segala kecerdikannya, akhirnya mereka pun terjebak di Pulau Kirrin.Serial ini selalu menarik seperti serial-serial yang sebelumnya.
Dan entah bagaimana ceritanya, Lima Sekawan pun pasti bisa mengungkap dan menuntaskan segala keanehan yang ada dengan kecerdikan mereka.
This, as the final book in the Famous Five series, is a tad disappointing and confusing sadly. Although I have to admit that my son (6) enjoyed it as much as the others. It begins with the 4 children coming home from school and George being upset that Timmy doesn't meet her at the train station. I always thought that Timmy went to George with school. Then the actual mystery wasn't much of a mystery, and was all over in about 3 chapters, even with dragging it out.It was okay, but not the best story by far.
Famous 5 are up to another adventure which is very exciting indeed.I really loved this book.Thumps up for famous 5 and Enid Blyton.
"The children are supposed to be staying at Kirrin Cottage, but as soon as George's mother and father's maid Joanna catches scarlet fever, the Five are sent to live with an old friend, called Tinker, and his famous scientist father, who first appeared in Five Go To Demon's Rocks (1961).
When top secret papers belonging to the scientist go missing, it is left up to the children to find the thief, whoever he is.
Seems funny now when some of the secondhand shops charge $7-10 per book!
I think that too be honest with the last two books of the Famous Five series you could tell that Enid Blyton had run out of steam when it came to this series.
I feel like this book was an odd one, the build up was long and then when something finally did happen it was pretty obvious.
To be honest all a little strange.I feel sad but also a little relieved that I have finally finished the series, I think that towards the end the stories became a more or less the same.
I love the early books in the series but I think the grand finale wasn't all that amazing.
The last one- a little weaker than the others but a fantastic read. Find myself wondering what happened to them when they left school. Clearly they couldn't go on for ever and I'm pleased that essentially the format didn't change. Too often in books and TV characters have to "develop" when what you want is for everything to stay the same
Semua novel Lima Sekawan menyisakan kenangan indah bagi saya yang waktu itu masih SD/SMP saat membacanya pertama kali. Imajinatif banget menggambarkan kehidupan anak2 di barat karna dulu masih jarang film hollywood yang bisa ditonton.
My favorite childhood read.
2.5
Finally finished my reread of this series. This one’s got a very slow start, but a good showing for George at the end, even though Julian’s still a bit of a prat.
It was really exciting to read who would be the thief... And like a small child i also had some suspects and that was found to be correct....
You can tell from the end of this book that there were to be more, shame there wasn't. I will miss reading this series.Great books.
Tamat sudah seri F5, meski ending buku ini tdk menyebutkan petualangan Julian dkk berakhir sampai disini.
No caves!!!! Spunky George does the deed! I liked this one because there were lots of new characters!
Another disappointing book, thing is you can't and won't enjoy a book that is this predictable.
I wish it could be more memorable than this because it is the LAST book of Famous Five series. I am a bit disappointed, still love the series.
One would hope that the well-brought-up child would readily recognise the defects in the behaviour of the Famous Five and not see it as something to emulate, but when Blyton is seeking to portray them as the heroes, and failing to pass judgment upon their negative behaviour and attitudes, and even seeming to praise and encourage it, it would be worthwhile for parents to familiarize themselves with the contents of these books, to know what their children are reading, and to make remarks on the behaviour of the characters where necessary to clearly distinguish right from wrong.
And there is a lack of continuity with previous books — for example, the children are returning home from school, and George can't wait to be reunited with her dog, Timmy; in earlier books he was able to be at school with her.
Also, Anne mentions never having seen a chimpanzee, but they made friends with one in an earlier story.Another thing I didn't like was the intrusion of the author's voice, often at the end of a chapter.
The first chapter ends:Down, Timmy, DOWN!
WILL you get down, Timmy!But this isn't being said by any of the children or other characters.
Kid fiction is fun to read.ReviewThe plotThe plot is always that the five of the characters get into some trouble while seeking adventure.
They solve mysteries, save others from trouble, eat a lot of delicious food.
Does it sound like HP?
And HP has a great world built inside the books.
The charactersI like how the characters are built.
I can remember them for their character traits.
George: A slightly arrogant, but likable daughter, raised more like a son.
Anne: Geroge's cousin.
Almost opposite of George, behaves most sensibly.
Julian & Dick: Anne's brothers.
Timmy: George's dog.
VerdictFor kids, must read.
