https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18339525-beauty-on-earth
The novel tells the story of a young woman, Juliette, who comes to live with her uncle in a small Swiss town after her father’s death.
It’s Juliette’s beauty that the town finds so disruptive; she captivates all — or at least many — of the people who meet her.
Readers are implicated in the desire to possess Juliette, and, just like the townspeople, are frustrated in any attempt to know her.Ramuz’s writing — and the new translation — is beautiful; the lake and village landscapes are gorgeously evoked.
It flows between different points of view, including the first person plural so that we, the readers, are drawn in to the story, and it flows between events and characters seamlessly.As I was searching for the right words to describe the novel's effect on me, I found them - as so often with a good novel - in the text itself.
That seems to me to be what Beauty on Earth is about, and also how it is written: each reader must engage with the images the words conjure and see what she finds, like looking at trees reflected in rippling water.
Like beauty itself the story cannot be described exactly.
Full disclosure, the translator of this novel's new English edition is a friend of mine.
But friendship or not Beauty On Earth—the second novel by Ramuz I've read, along with a few short stories—is a gorgeous, subtle, deceptively complex work.
It seems ahead of its time that way and I can't help wondering if Ramuz might be better known beyond Switzerland—like his contemporary Robert Walser—had he written urban rather than rural novels and stories.
But perhaps he will become better known now in English thanks to this translation and, I hope, more to come.
I first read "La Beauté sur la Terre" in its original French version a few years ago. I admired its beautiful and slightly strange style. I loved how Ramuz shifts from a specific scene to an overview where we are all somehow involved. I am impressed by how this translation is transcribing this effect so well. Michelle Bailat-Jones seems to have immersed herself in this narrative with her full writer's sensitivity to be able to provide us with this fresh and faithful translation. It is now an absolute pleasure to read in both French and English!
3.5 starsTook me ages to read, even if the story is both compelling and interesting, well written and full of poetic descriptions. I know I will have to read this again, too, because it will be the subject of my oral exam in French literature in June next year...
Beauty on Earth falls into each of these traps, and 30 or 40 pages in, I found myself not giving a damn about it.Ramuz seems to be making a single argument in the book: that beauty is always going to be objectified and inspire the need in others to possess it or marshal it about.
The irony is that the novel he's written as a platform for this statement commits the very sin he's lamenting: Beauty on Earth gives us a vision of the feminine capable of little or nothing other than inspiring men to possessiveness and women to jealousy.
La beauté est éphémère. La beauté est malsaine. La beauté fascine. La beauté finit souillée, ou vous claque dans les mains... à peu de choses près.  La beauté est bien ancrée dans l'écriture de Ramuz. Sous différents angles, le lecteur assiste aux événements, à cette musique, à ces scènes éclatées au bord du Leman qu'on dirait cinématographiques.
Beau comme un tableau de Seurat, et frais comme une baignade dans les torrents d'Ardèche.
