https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2142454.The_Old_Straight_Track
Originally published in 1925, this book by Alfred Watkins bought the concept of ley lines to the public.
The concept came to him after visiting a Roman excavation and looking at the map to get a perspective on the wider landscape, he saw that a number of features seemed to line up.
At the time the science of excavation was starting to change and improve, Watkins may have prompted people to look at and discover the genuine links between sites in the wider context of the landscape.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Amazing history of topography of England...how roads were laid out, ley lines - not the mystical ones, but the "ley of the land" ley lines, why intersections are called "crosses," how the "Roman Roads" were built on already existing highways, why moats and reflective pools, etc.
There are different chapters on standing stones, on barrows, on churches, moats and ponds, all of them clearly detailing the author's hypothesis that these sites were once linked in the landscape.Don't go in expecting this to be an esoteric read - the idea of energy being channelled along ley lines came later.
I found the author's style very engaging and educational, even though a lot of the stuff from this era has a tendency towards dryness.
There are few books which truly merit the word ‘iconic’, but in my opinion, ‘The Old Straight Track’ is one of them. Nearly 90 years after its publication, it continues to open the eyes of readers so that they see the landscape in an entirely new light; as John Michell rightly puts it, writing in the Foreword, for many people the book “awoke, as it were, the memory of a half familiar truth.” When I first read the book for myself, getting on for 20 years ago now, this was certainly my own experience.Read my full review: http://the-hazel-tree.com/2014/07/14/...
Alred Watkins described his theory very clearly and in great depth, but I was unconvinced. He seemed to have fallen victim to confirmation bias to an epic degree. In addition, his attempt to use probablilty to support his theory was woefully inadequate (and I am qualified to make that judgement).
It is unfeasible that someone wishing to get to get to the Neolithic axe factory on Pike O'Stickle (one of the largest in Europe, and a site which Watkins himself would surely place on a ley) would scale the 1000 or so foot of scree from the valley floor, or coming from Wasdale drop into the valley only to have the gruelling slog back up again.This book explores many Neolithic, bronze age, Celtic, Anglo-Saxon and Roman sites of interest such as mounds, cairns, and standing stones with a detail not too great, nor too shallow, and this is where its value lies.
Looking back from the 21st Century there is much to be learnt from this book beyond Watkin's theory of Ley lines.
For is it soon becomes obvious how much his ideas about straight line navigation have grown decade after decade into a near belief system.
The seed that Watkins sowed grew into a whole wealth of theories about energy lines, earth energy, dowsing and mystical powers.
It is a hard jolt reading this book that he saw no more than some ancient means of navigation across the landscape, no more, no less.
Did I believe his theory?
As expected -- a fair development of the original archaelogical and anthropoligical theory of ley-lines. There is no New Age fluff here. This work is purely focussed upon ley-lines, rather than energy grids. As an insight into how Neolithic people may have planned and developed trade routes and processional pathways, Watkins makes a good offering.
Published 93 years ago, this is a must-read for anyone interested in the pre-history of Britain. Watkins erudite style covers the straight tracks, leylines and names that cities gained before the Roman invasion. Its a delightful little gem & one I'm bound to dip into again & again.
Interesting read on ley lines.
Thank god that is over with. Just stubborn, bloody-minded obstinacy prevented me from abandoning this book half way through. I suppose it is unfair to be too harsh because I did enjoy some aspects of it, such as those chapters dealing with place names. But the rest I found to be tedious and uninteresting speculation.It is a well-liked book which will continue to be read, just never by me again.
ATLANTIS obvs
Another must for ley hunters - one of the first books to bring ley hunting to the fore.
Such an odd book. He piles up all this evidence, is very serious and careful...and yet he's totally wrong and credulous.
While it was very informative, it was also very dry.
classic text on leys with the author's photos of long-vanished ancient monuments
I gained an interest of ley lines through pursuing crop circles and Silbury Hill. This is both detailed and gripping!
