https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/845078.Hothouse
Millions of years into the future, the Earth is tidally locked with the sun and the sunny side is dominated by a banyan tree of mind-boggling size.
Mile-wide plant spiders crawl from the Earth to the moon on vast webs.
A far-future earth dominated by colossal plants with giant spiders crawling from the earth to the moon and back!
I think some of this is due to the book being a patchwork of several of Aldiss' stories set on the Hothouse earth.Still, it's not without its charms.
I love the setting but I don't think the story ever came close to doing it justice.
A FAR-FUTURE Earth where PLANTS are at the TOP of the FOOD CHAIN, HUMANS are MEALS and GIANT, SPIDER-LIKE PLANTS travel on webs between the MOON and EARTH...that is not just COOL....that's BLACK DYNAMITE COOL!!  4.5 to 5.0 stars. This book is all about WORLD-BUILDING and Brian Aldiss has created a TRIPtastically SUPERB vision of a “far future” Earth unlike anything I have ever read. In the distant future, evolution has decided to BOOT the “Animal Kingdon” square in the nether-regions…   …and pla
This book is all about WORLD-BUILDING and Brian Aldiss has created a TRIPtastically SUPERB vision of a “far future” Earth unlike anything I have ever read.
...and who needs that.Anyway, in this far future, the world is basically one giant “rain forest” of densely packed plant-life that has evolved some serious "don't mess with me" offensive and defensive capabilities.
Please note that this is not “hard SF” and the explanations for how the world developed into the Garden of Hell are not plausible but that is not the point.
This book gives us a fascinating look at devolution in action, beside the little green people who are our direct descendants, there are subspecies of man who are presumably descended from crossbreeding of unknown origin.The most interesting example being the tummy-belly men who have a symbiosis relationship with a tree that feeds and control them through a tail which functions like an umbilical cord.
The aggressive environment reminds me of the action-packed Deathworld 1 by Harry Harrison (long-time collaborator of Brian Aldiss), the aforementioned The Day of the Triffids, and - strangely enough - my favorite computer game Plants vs.
After reaching the halfway mark, I threw this book down (you can read later why) only to pick it up again because 1) I think it unfair when someone rates/reviews a book they haven't finished, as I have never felt that was a fair way to judge a book, potentially destroying an author's chance to reach an audience, perhaps even ruining their career, and 2) This was a HUGO AWARD WINNING BOOK and I strongly believed there must have been a good reason why!But, I didn't follow my own rules of doing th
After reaching the halfway mark, I threw this book down (you can read later why) only to pick it up again because 1) I think it unfair when someone rates/reviews a book they haven't finished, as I have never felt that was a fair way to judge a book, potentially destroying an author's chance to reach an audience, perhaps even ruining their career, and 2) This was a HUGO AWARD WINNING BOOK and I strongly believed there must have been a good reason why!But, I didn't follow my own rules of doing things and thus originally rated it a 2, and reviewed it in full.
The dangers are many, but with tribal knowledge and teamwork and enough focus on breeding some form of human life persists when nearly all other vertebrates and even most insects have become extinct.
The book succeeds for me on its lasting psychological feelings about teeming life forms and its atmospherics of horror and wonder over the precariousness of the life of an individual and our species.
After recent reads of science books on the current human caused threats to biological diversity of the planet, it was fascinating for me to experience a scenario where excessive diversity among plants puts us almost out of the picture.
I was fully prepared to assume it would be outdated and skimpy on the characters, but what I actually got was a thought-provoking tale that was so heavy on the worldbuilding that the worldbuilding was more like three or four characters in its own right.I mean, you know its some serious science fiction if we're transported a billion years in the future, where men and women are a fifth our current size, where the earth and the moon are locked to constantly face the sun and the world had devolved and mixed and blurred lines between animals and vegetables.
It may have been written as a set of five short stories in 1961, but it’s a timeless and bizarre story of a million years in the future when the plants have completely taken over the planet, which has stopped rotating, and humans are little green creatures hustling to avoid becoming plant food.There are hundreds of fearsome carnivorous plants that would love to eat human morsels, but will gladly settle for eating each other instead.
Oh, the humanity…or is it vegetality?Aldiss’ Non-Stop (1958), Hothouse (1962), and Greybeard (1964) were chosen by David Pringle for his Science Fiction: The 100 Best Novels, and they’ve been on my TBR list for years.
The author lived many years in India and was particularly impressed by the great banyan tree which now occupies more than 4 acres (2 acres when Aldiss came across it) and looks like a forest; this majestic tree was the inspiration for this book:More info in it: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Gre...Bottom line is that, even if I loved the worldbuilding and the message it carries, that Nature is the mighty ruler of this planet which will evolve and survive no matter what and humanity is just a tiny, insignificant speck in its kingdom, the characters annoyed me to no end; hence the three stars.
Both imagine a future world that in some ways is more similar to the prehistoric past, the (Jungian?) notion of an inherited species memory is important in both, and the importance of the time that both authors spent in the Far East - Ballard as a boy, Aldiss - if I remember correctly - as part of his military service, is not something that you have to lift stones to see.Both, and I suspect that is a particularly sharp feature in British writing when there is not just the taking into account of the reality of living with the possibility of destruction through atomic war but also an adaptation to the loss of Empire, have a sense of human societies and civilisations as transitory.
The other part is a frozen wasteland ,in perpetual darkness...It's a plant world for sure.The few humans left, have returned to the trees,(there is just one,a Banyan, in reality), and turned green, the humans I mean.A "Hothouse" (the name of the novel originally), in fact Terra has become.These people are primitive.Living high above and not even being able to see the ground.No technology, no knowledge of their past, ignoramuses, trying to survive against man eating plants.Lily-yo, is the leader of a small band of humans.Always alert against the plants, who are more animal( almost extinct here), than vegetable.The tribe has pieces of carved wood which they carry around, and call their souls!When one of them dies ,which happens often .
Hallucinatory 60s novel, possibly written on drugs, which depicts a far-future Earth in which humans have evolved into tiny creatures who live in a giant forest that covers the globe. Oh, and there are spider-webs that stretch up to the moon... a sort of biological space elevator. Read the book to find out what the deal is with the fungi. None of it makes sense, but the images are striking.
It's not just pulp fiction - it's vegetable-pulp fiction!Long aeons in Earth's future, an Age of Plants has risen.
The characters are (at times, quite literally) interchangeable, with no depth or even an attempt at giving them individual personalities.
The main raison-d'etre of the book is to imaginatively describe these alien organisms, one after another.
Even though the future society, we are told, is matriarchal, it's the male characters that have to take charge in every situation and are the main 'do-ers' throughout.
Unbelievably, they were collectively awarded a Hugo for 'Best Short Fiction.' An abridged version was previously published as 'The Long Afternoon of Earth.'
However, there is some character development, so it is not like it is only action, all the time.
Those parts when the fungus tried to take over the life of one of the protagonists was probably my favourite part of the novel.One of the things I absolutely loved about this novel were the vivid descriptions of this future world.
I had a feeling like I got a tan while I was reading this book.
I really felt a part of this world.Hothouse is not exactly hard sf, but it's really fun to read.
If you put aside the shoddy science and employ your suspension of disbelief to the fullest, than this is a blast of a story. A distant future where humans are hunted by evolved plants and giant insects in a world that resembles a giant rainforest. I had so much fun reading about the setting that I didn't even care that the plot was flimsy. This is a fun tour through a very imaginative landscape.
One of my first memories of childhood was a trip to the planetarium at Jodrell Bank and the ending sequence of the 'presentation' was where they showed the theorised last stages of our Sun's life as a star with it's eventual supernova and decline into a red dwarf before inevitably dying out.
While the first quarter focuses on this unit - the story, I feel, (eventually) ends up as a vehicle to transport us on a trip around the world to as many diverse locales & expose us to as many weird creatures as possible.
The story that develops soon after the start, makes this novel a page-turner, from the beginning to the end, the novel is action packed- there's always something going on.
The morel is a sentient fungus that enhances the intelligence of creatures it forms symbiotic relationships with.( There is even an indication that that is how people became smart in the first place)As a thing, character or villain- I don't know what to call it-it's well-though and incorporated into a story.
The feeling of life growing fanatically in the final days of a dying sun- it’s there.Hothouse is not exactly hard sf, but it's really fun to read.
Written in 1962, Brian Aldiss' Hothouse is similar to works like Jack Vance's "Dying Earth" series and Gene Wolfe's Book of the New Sun. In most novels of this dying earth genre, the world is gasping under the weight of civilization; a million years of customs and artifacts, countless empires risen and fallen, cities piled upon cities.
Many things he encounters during his journey remain mysterious, though some of human history is glimpsed in flashback as the mushroom probes (somewhat improbably) through Gren's racial memories, and at times it is possible to guess at the possible origins of species or artifacts.In addition to being delightfully strange, Hothouse takes full advantage of the philosophical possibilities of the Dying Earth setting.
The story takes the form of a journey of discovery, much like Gulliver's Travellers or Journey to the Centre of the Earth and, as is often the case, it is a story of conceptual breakthrough.On our fantastic voyage, we encounter a sentient and manipulating fungus, which has specialised in intelligence while the planet's plants have specialised in size.
Harbouring ambitions of world domination, this morel represents (and finally explains) man's urge to power.Other stuff seems to be going on about class, but the pleasure of Hothouse lies not in allegory, but in its wild and hallucinatory invention.
One of the best novels I have read this year.
Brian Aldiss' second SF novel, less intricate in terms of plot than many of his other books, but packed full of highly original ideas and very strange situations.
The main character, Gren, embarks on a journey in a far-future version of Earth where the sun has grown vast in the sky and carnivorous plants have come to dominate the food-chain.
Gren's adventures are paralleled by the adventures of some other members of his tribe who ride a mile-wide vegetable spider to a moon attached to Earth by means of enormous cobwebs...
Highly recommended!
Some of the more comic scenes reminded me of Candide (recently read, fresh in the memory!) in the 'buffoons in an allegory' stakes, but Hothouse is also in turn violent and nightmarish, hallucinatory in the extreme (an accidental astral journey through the cosmos via a psychic building anyone?), hugely inventive and quite often really gross.
Science fiction is I guess reliant on effective world-building and I have never read anything quite like the world Aldiss describes, with its Jabberwocky-esque vegetable predators, mile-long spiders that spin webs to the moon and Machiavellian fungi.
The gunpowder that resulted had been carried up through sappy veins to nut cases in the topmost branches" (!!) - In this strange world, we follow the violent odyssey of some tiny Human descendants at a time when the Sun is soon to die, but so far radiating extra energy leading to a high rate of mutations.
The Human descendants meet the morel leading to a curious twist, the rest is even stranger than Part 1, but it is far too long...
Tens of thousands of years into the future, the Earth's rotation has locked, with one face locked on a dying sun, the other side locked in orbit with a moon now encrusted with plant life.
And as if the magic morel isn't out there enough, it digs into Gren's mind and discovers some racial memories, which is another knock against the book's science.Hothouse's core themes are some that Aldiss explored in many of his novels and short stories---the balance of fecundity to entropy, the interrelation between order and chaos, and the stark contrast between an explosive growth of life and the inevitable silence of death and decay.
I finally began somewhat caring about what happened to the characters and wanting to know what came next.I was heartbroken by what Gren did to the Tummy-Bellies and I suppose that was the highlight of the book for me, because it was the only time when I actually felt something.
I wish I would have read more about Lily-yo - that storyline thoroughly intrigued me.Most of all, what really kept me from getting into the book were two things: - The writing.
Reconozco que tuve un percance con Aldiss en mis años mozos, cuando por azar cayó en mis manos  Drácula desencadenado . El caso es que me dejó frío y casi de inmediato olvidé la trama, lo que me disuadió de seguir probando con otros libros suyos. Precipitación adolescente. Tras conocer la noticia de su fallecimiento y estar expuesto al (escaso) bombardeo que le siguió, decidí probar suerte con  La nave estelar . Me lo pasé realmente bien leyéndolo, fascinado por su planteamiento y atrapado por e
Aunque algunos de los motivos por los que quedará en mi recuerdo tienen que ver con circunstancias personales, a Invernáculo le sobra artillería para dejar una marca indeleble:«Y aquellos innumerables filamentos flotaban a través de la separación, uniendo los mundos.
De un modo sorprendentemente adecuado, la vejez de la Tierra estaba envuelta en telarañas».La imagen de dos mundos suspendidos en equilibrio perfecto, conectados mediante los hilos tejidos por unos aracnoides de dimensiones colosales que los utilizan para viajar entre ellos, posee tal potencia evocadora que por sí sola justifica haberle dado una oportunidad a Aldiss.
The pacing was definitely not what I come to expect from him; at some points frenetic, and other times sluggish.
Every chapter I kept hoping to flip back to their journey which would eventually tie-in to Gren an Yatmur, but only at the very end did that happen, and for such a brief time it was comical.
I ultimately still felt bad that, though they were essentially mindless automatons when connected to their trees, that *was* their way of life, and Gren (under the control of the morel of course) cut them off from that.
A unique far future story of devolution. If distinctions need be made, this is structured more as fantasy than scifi: A long journey through the woods.It is filled with wild characters and imaginative creatures, most of them sentient and sometimes carnivorous vegetation. Human beings by this time have devolved into little rodents-like creatures.My favourite and perhaps most complex character is fungus.A very engaging adventure tale that can be enjoyed on many levels.
I read this book, for a first time,a long time ago.I remember that there wasn't any sense in plot,but whole story was so halucigenic that I couldn't put the damn thing away!There was cyberplants,and crazy mutant insects,and elevator to moon...I felt like bad acid trip...
It's probably been close to a decade since I've read this book and the image of the earth and the moon shrouded together by gigantic spiderwebs still sticks with me.
Classic SF. Is this where Devo got the idea for de-evolution?
When in the following year the stories were melded together into a novel, the name was retained in Britain but in the United States it was sold under the name “The Long Afternoon of Earth.” In 2009, it was reissued by IDW Publishing of San Diego as a trade paperback under the original title.
Nonetheless, by s-f story-telling standards, this book holds its own against others of the period, and should make it to the reading lists of those whose tastes in fiction run towards the imaginative or fantastic.It has been argued that Aldiss’s disuse of science is an indication that his concerns are directed towards other matters (read weightier ones, perhaps).
