https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/705163.Mr_Norris_Changes_Trains
Christopher IsherwoodIsherwood wrote the above quote in the forward to a book by Gerald Hamilton aptly called Mr. Norris and I that was published in 1956.
Isherwood based the character of Mr. Norris on his friend Gerald Hamilton.
Now on the other hand Bradshaw is basically a tourist on extended vacation in Berlin, tutoring people to keep himself in pocket money.
He can feel some of the thrill of associating with criminals, communists, and people engaging in “perverted” behavior, but at the end of the day when the chips are down he can ring up the embassy and find himself safely back on a train to England.
No wonder that from the first moment William is fascinated by Arthur Norris and accidental meeting right away turns into friendship.William, in good faith and due to innate gullibility (I show him a little mercy not naming it stupidity), attends new friend's life.
He accompanies Arthur to Berlin's underworld, engages in political activity and, convinced about his financial problems, let himself get entangled in spy affair.
His interest and friendship to Norris does not falter despite warnings from other friends and Arthur's opaque explanations about his finances, dubious activities and disreputable acquaintances.
Of course for gay men, such as Isherwood and Auden Berlin was much more liberal and less repressed than England.The two main characters are thinly disguised.
The narrator is a young man called William Bradshaw (Isherwood’s middle names) who is travelling to Berlin to be a private tutor.
Because Isherwood wanted to put the main focus on Norris, he makes Bradshaw a voyeur who watches what goes on and provides commentary.
The main character, Arthur Norris, is a very thinly veiled Gerald Hamilton.
He called one volume Mr Norris and I (Isherwood wrote the forward).
Impressive & rich in the anecdotal department...
I wholly agree that the book lacks a true plot.
It is more of a character study, of the flamboyant & unpredictable Arthur Norris whose nature embodies the joie de vivre of the true bohemian--his mishaps with the stirrings up of the Nazi party (relevant as much today as EVER) are part of true history, and another plus for the short novel.
That it is all laced delicately with gay wisdom & wit makes it truly worthwhile!
This novel is nice.
Well, it's Isherwood nice.
Well, it's Isherwood nice.
Meaning it's all great until something horrible happens and then he stamps on your heart and never looks back.
This is a fantastic study of male friendship in the 30s (aka hella gay) and of the rise of Nazism.
It odd seeing just how much the people in this novel don't like Hitler or the Nazis even though this was published in 1933, they don't even know what's coming.
I must read more Isherwood and so must you.
If you haven't read Isherwood then ugh what are you doing with your life?
I’ll leave you to discover Norris’s fate for yourselves, it is an entertaining and apt conclusion for one so despicable, depraved and corrupt.Overall 'Mr Norris Changes Trains' is a captivating novel about a duplicitous friendship set against the backdrop of a country in turmoil.The next book I will read is 'Christopher and His Kind' an autobiographical account of Christopher Isherwood's life-from 1929, when he left England to spend a week in Berlin and decided to stay there indefinitely, to 1939, when he arrived in America.
This novel begins with William Bradshaw, a young English tutor, meeting the slightly ridiculous Mr Arthur Norris on a train to Berlin.
Mr Norris is nervous at having to present his passport, elusive about what he does and, with his rather obvious wig and odd habits, does not seem as though he is a character to take seriously at first.
The novel is set in 1930’s Berlin and so it is impossible to ignore the political situation unfolding there.
I read this book a long time ago and, now, thanks to Google, I reread anew after sleuthing Hamilton.Gerald Hamilton was a gun-runner for the IRA, a con-man caught in embezzlement plots, a Commie symp and then, turning far, far right, he was against war with Germany, espousing the views of fascist Oswald Mosley.
Isherwood published this book in 1935 while the wayward Gerald Hamilton was spinning left and right.
As Gerald Hamilton said, "We live in stirring times.
Tea-stirring times."Isherwood wasn't known in the US until 1951 when John Van Druten took a couple of his Berlin stories and wrote the play "I Am a Camera," later a musicom.
In fact, this first person narrative tells us very little about narrator and focuses entirely on the person of Mr Norris, a perfect English gentlemen, a charming scoundrel.
William meets Mr Norris on the train in the first chapter, and, sadly, there aren’t that many trains afterwards.
As a reader, I found myself just as gullible as William while believing (like him) that I had it all under control and saw Mr Norris through.I liked this book a lot but maybe I’m wrong to like it.
Our voices sounded so absurd that I could have laughed out loud. We were like two unimportant characters in the first act of a play, put there to make conversation until it is time for the chief actor to appear. A sweetly nostalgic look backwards at what unexpectedly becomes nostalgia-- the half-understood, the loony, the unexplained and the senseless-- as they begin to morph into the storyline of what we remember. And into what we end up calling human nature, once we have some perspective on t
Our impressionable and yet worldly narrator makes his polite way amongst the international flotsam and near-society types that comprise certain circles in Berlin, 1935.
Isherwood makes it impossible not to laugh, and yet...) Mr. Norris Changes Trains is by turns silly, antic, then not-silly, and threatening, unpredictable.
Kind of like life, but life in a highly-fraught, delirious era, that will never happen quite the same way again.
Published before things went horribly wrong in Europe this collection of events chronicling the friendship of Mr Norris and Mr Bradshaw stands the test of time and history remarkably well.As Isherwood himself said of this novel much later in his life, it is shallow and it is filled with frivolity whilst being set during a dark time in world history, but that doesn't change the fact that it is an enjoyable read perhaps akin to the entertainments of Graham Greene or Evelyn Waugh.
Μια ιστορία που εξελίσσεται στο Βερολίνο λίγο πριν την άνοδο των Ναζί στην εξουσία το 1933. Σκηνές περιθωριακης παρακμής και σεξουαλικου σαδισμου, ομοφιλοφιλικες υπόνοιες και μικροαπατες ανθρώπων με μια ιδέα αριστοκρατίας. Ο συγγραφέας, που έζησε εκείνη την περίοδο στο Βερολίνο, χρησιμοποιεί την πόλη, τις συγκρούσεις Κομμουνιστών Ναζιστων κ το βερολινεζικο περιθώριο, ως καμβά σε μια σχετικά αδιάφορη ιστορία με πρωταγωνιστές Βρετανούς... Πολλές υπόνοιες και κρυψινοια σε ένα βιβλίο που γράφτηκε το 1935, και αποτέλεσε μέρος μιας ευρύτερης gay λογοτεχνίας που μεγαλουργσε στην Αμερική του 1940-60! Η πορεία του συγγραφέα είναι εντυπωσιακή.
In the middle of a crowded street a young man would be attacked, stripped, thrashed, and left bleeding on the pavement; in fifteen seconds it was all over and the assailants had disappeared.It was almost as if the rise of Hitler were associated with the simultaneous settlement of thousands of scores that had festered over decades.One must not forget the character of the fey Arthur Norris, who succeeds only in getting himself into messes under the watchful eye of his young English friend Bradshaw.
Καθώς ο Ναζισμός ανατέλλει στο Βερολίνο, μια τυχαία γνωριμία σε ένα τρένο εξελίσσεται σε μία ιδιότυπη φιλία, της οποίας παρακολουθούμε την πορεία στα χρόνια που έπονται.
Ο νεαρός Άγγλος Ουίλιαμ έρχεται για πρώτη φορά σε επαφή με τα ελαφρώς τρομαγμένα γαλανά μάτια του κυρίου Νόρις σε ένα τρένο με προορισμό το Βερολίνο.
Ο Ουίλιαμ αδυνατεί να λάβει αποστάσεις από αυτή τη φιλία, εντυπωσιασμένος από την προσωπικότητα του κ.
Νόρις προσπαθεί να επιβιώσει κακήν κακώς μέσα στο πολιτικό κλίμα της εποχής που κλυδωνίζεται.
Το κλίμα της εποχής, έτσι όπως αναδύεται από την πένα του συγγραφέα, περιγράφεται εξαιρετικά.
A slightly lukewarm and meandering character study that only ever dances round the themes of betrayal and political intrigue.Unsurprisingly, the strength lies in the heady setting.
I'm sure this offers more of interest to the modern reader in retrospect compared to Isherwood's contemporaries - it is the combination of temporal and geographical setting that draws us nowadays.
Norris was potentially a very interesting character: he is himself a conundrum, a man of contradictions - why on earth would he even befriend Bradshaw in the first place?!!
But the mystery that surrounds Norris is never entirely fruitful; his motives aren't clarified and Isherwood never gets to the crux of the Norris/Schmidt hoo-ha.
Christopher Isherwood wrote the fictional "Mr Norris Changes Trains" based on his experiences in Berlin in the early 1930s.
The character William Bradshaw (named after Isherwood's middle names) acts as a narrator and an observer in the book.Mr Norris, based on Isherwood's friend, Gerald Hamilton, is a charming, nervous, middle-aged man whose lifestyle is supported by conning people, selling secrets, and other criminal activities.
He has regular appointments with Anni, a woman with tall boots and a whip.William meets Mr Norris on the train to Berlin, and they become good friends.
Mr Norris introduces William to a group of people who engage in drunken, sexual partying.
When I read Goodbye to Berlin, I innocently thought that the anti-semitism in it belonged to the characters.
Now, reading Mr Norris Changes Trains, I see that isn’t so.
The anti-semitic comments are gratuitously those of the author.
If he were living in Germany, was it that he felt it made him safe throwing in just a few words in a few places to prove his credentials?But now I see that his private words have always been littered with this abhorrent attitude, the more so since he lived in Berlin and must have known what was happening.rest here: https://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpre...
I wanted to read some Isherwood after reading Eric Larson’s book about Berlin in the 1930s.
Of the novel, Wikipedia says “Although Mr Norris Changes Trains was a critical and popular success, Isherwood later condemned it, believing that he had lied about himself through the characterization of the narrator and that he did not truly understand the suffering of the people he had depicted.
It is slight.The Telegraph commented: “While Isherwood was attracted to Berlin by the ready availability of homosexual partners there, he always had a keen journalist’s instinct for being in the right place at the right time.
When a friend of mine heard that I was reading a book titled "Mr Norris Changes Trains", the first thing he said was "Chuck, I suppose?".Poor Christopher Isherwood!
And let's forget that - Chuck or not Chuck - "Mr Norris Changes Trains" is a very unfortunate title.
Here we have a book which is at the same time a relic from the past and something modern.Whereas Arthur Norris' look, speech and manners wouldn't displease Thackeray, the little Isherwood tells us about the foreign correspondent Helen Pratt is enough to make a Orianna Fallaci or a Katie Adie out of her.
For "Mr Norris Changes Trains" is set in a very well-defined place and moment of recent history: Berlin in the mid-thirties.

Absolutely five stars. What a gem. I loved it. A classic. More to say later.I'm keen to know who the Helen Pratt character is based on.
In it, we get to follow the adventures of Mr. Arthur Norris, as observed by Mr. William Bradshaw.
Mr. Norris was the most peculiar of the two: he seemed to have activities that were never-ending, that provided income on a steady basis.
Mr. Bradshaw, on the other hand, was a low-key individual who spent most of his time observing Mr. Norris.
When we do learn what it is that provides Mr. Norris his income, we are only a little surprised.
This is a well-written and entertaining novel set in familiar times, involving characters of strange behaviors.
Set in 1930s Berlin and based on Isherwood's experiences there, this is an elegant and intriguing character study.
The strength of this work is actually its setting.
The detached style that makes it difficult to fully engage with Isherwood's characters works much better when he is contrasting the frantic amusement of parties and nightclubs with the growing political threat that gradually spreads fear among the citizens of Berlin.There are some interesting secondary characters who come and go through the narrative, and I found they provided the few moving and memorable moments of the novel.
In una Berlino ancora inconsapevole di quanto nefasto sarà il Nazismo, ancora immune dalla paura "subdola e infettiva" che, di lì a breve, avrebbe coinvolto tutti, un giovane insegnante di Inglese si imbatte in Mr Arthur Norris e nella sua rete di intrighi internazionali.
Ma incrociare la sua strada ed esporsi al suo fascino non può che portare grane e delusioni.Lettura consigliata perché elegante e rilassante come il tè delle cinque; in poche pennellate dirette, Norris diventa amabilmente il pericoloso amico di tutti."Quel momento di franchezza, che avrebbe potuto redimerlo tanto, era stato elegantemente evitato.
Lo spirito di Arthur, sensibile come quello di un orientale, rifuggiva dalla rude, sana, moderna sincerità della verità a ogni costo e delle confessioni che liberano l'animo.
Loved, loved, loved this. Just my cup of tea. Narrator, William Bradshaw is a witty, mildly exasperated, English teacher. He meets Arthur Norris, an unfailingly polite, rather dodgy character on a train and what follows is an absolute delight to read.Will write a proper review when I get a mo :)
I found this book on a list of David Bowie's favorite books. It's well written, witty and very subtle, but not a page turner. It is an interesting view of pre-Hitler's Berlin, a moment when both the Nazis and the communists are challenging the establishment for power.
From party to restaurant to communist hub, this story is imbued with tension and populated with characters whose appearance seemed so grotesque as to be rather cartoon-like at times:‘There was no mistaking his warmth.
Although a couple of our book group members found Arthur Norris a difficult character to get along with, spoiling the book somewhat for them, the majority found this to be an entertaining read but were unable to elaborate as to exactly why it was so enjoyable, myself included!Although William Bradshaw is supposed to be Isherwood’s alter-ego (Christopher William Bradshaw Isherwood) the author very cleverly ensures that his narrator is as neutral, unexciting and asexual as possible; allowing the big personalities of the novel to shine and for us, as readers, to easily place ourselves in Bradshaw’s position.
A down-and-out English 'gentleman' with a slippery past and dubious intentions, a brutal and ubiquitous secretary who knows too much, a boxer turned Communist street brawler, a monocled baron with a queer penchant for young adult fiction, and an odd assortment of blackmailers, bankrupts, and Nazis make up the eccentric cast of Christopher Isherwood’s semi-autobiographical novel Mr Norris Changes Trains (1935).
Through the eyes of Willie Bradshaw, a naive young Englishman living in Berlin, we watch the decrepit Weimar Republic totter on its last legs before being trampled by Hitler and his goose-stepping thugs.
Set in the early thirties in Berlin, Mr. Norris changes trains is a slow-paced novel, recounting the adventures of William Bradshaw, an English expatriate.
Associating with radicals –whether Nazis or communists-, petty criminals and prostitutes, naïve Bradshaw takes part in the secrets and political schemes surrounding his new friend without truly scraping at the varnish covering Norris’ mysterious personality.What Isherwood later condemned in the novel might actually be what made it interesting to me: the discrepancy between the suffering of the people around William, the violence, the misery and the political instability in Berlin, and his naiveté, his constant misinterpreting of the situation, while he absorbs himself in his childish fantasies.
The other of Christopher Isherwood’s Berlin books is a proper novel as opposed to inter-connected short stories.
A young man becomes involves with the twice as big as life Mr Norris – a charming rogue, crook and scoundrel.
This is a gently humorous story of the friendship between the two and the various misadventures which arise, and the easy tone means that the gradual emergence of the Nazis is even more disturbing (although since this was published in 1935, Isherwood didn’t know how disturbing things would get).
