https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18869971-the-scapegoat
Two men....one English, "John"...( the narrator), the other French, "Jean de Gue", meet by chance one evening.
Over drinks in a bar, John shares with Jean de Gue how as an individual, he feels like a failure.
Jean de Gue, master of a chateau, and director of a failing business says, "You complain that your life is empty", to me it sounds like paradise.
Or, have many people counting on you - wife - mother - daughter - brother - sister-in-law- friends with benefits - business associates- and feel resentful?
When John first stepped into Jean de Gue's life, he noticed that his mother looked frightened.
While John is a lonely man with a feeling of emptiness inside, Comte Jean de Gué claims to have only the problem of having too many ‘human’ possessions.
John, as the new Comte Jean de Gué, finds himself taking on a failing business and a family with secrets and complex feelings.
John will come to know Jean through this family and his interactions with them.
Does he want Jean to fail because he feels a victim in this charade?
Perhaps John is Jean de Gué’s scapegoat, or maybe another is fulfilling this role in the drama that plays out in this wounded family.
When César, the dog, finally accepts John, the author says,"as he wagged his tail, I felt that I had scored a triumph."The writing style too, feels very like Daphne du Maurier's other novels.
Here John refers to an event long past, but seems to also draws truths from it about his doppelgänger, "I knew that what had happened on a dark night nearly fifteen years ago had not come about by chance but was something planned and done deliberately by a man without heart or feeling, who saw perhaps, in the other someone finer than himself possessing...
Years of study, years of training, the fluency with which I spoke their language, taught their history, described their culture, had never brought me closer to the people themselves.”Having lost his way (in more ways than one) he finds himself in a bar near the railway station where he is having a drink with someone called Jean who doesn’t only look like his identical twin, but even sounds the same - a mirror image of himself.
Be careful what you wish for...Not only is John now a Frenchman named Jean, but he has “inherited” (view spoiler)[a whole menagerie of family (a mother, siblings, a very pregnant wife, a child, as well as a couple of mistresses) and staff, a business, a château and a title (Count).
She has a way of making you feel as though you're actually there in the hotel room in Le Mans, the grounds of Jean de Gue's estate in the French countryside and Bela's antique shop in the town of Villars.When John first arrives at the de Gue chateau, every member of the household is a stranger to him but we (and John) are given enough clues to gradually figure out who each person is and what their relationship is to Jean de Gue. From the neglected pregnant wife and the hostile elder sister to the resentful younger brother and the religious ten-year-old daughter, every character is well-drawn and memorable.Another thing I love about Daphne du Maurier's writing is her ability to always keep the reader guessing right to the final page (and sometimes afterwards too).
I’d never read a book by Daphne du Maurier before so I wasn’t sure quite which I'd get - the overblown or the stilted - but I was confident the plot would be asinine.
Yes. But stranger still is the fact that I slowly became drawn into the story and significantly invested in the outcome.The language is rich and hugely descriptive – all in a good way – and as the tale gallops along more and more problems seem to crawl out of the woodwork.
If you have ever read any of Daphne du Maurier’s novels, you will immediately recognize what I mean when I say the narrator here is another of her identity-free individuals.
He goes from having no life or ties to being responsible for the complexities of a chateaux and the lives that revolve around it, and he finds out that the life he has assumed is one of a dubious and sometimes cruel individual."One had no right to play with other people's lives.
She writes descriptions that turn buildings into characters, and characters that emerge as real people.If you have never read du Maurier, you are missing one of the great writers.
No idea why this was showing as I had rated this book when I haven't even finished it.Gee, I got so many likes when I was just having a whinge, I don't know why I'm bothering to write a review! 😁     Well, I do know why. This is one of the best books I've read this year - it is definitely the best fiction that is not a reread.I read it as a straight doppelganger story and still found it wonderfully complex - & du Maurier's skilled writing made me believe the unbelievable. But some of the oth
No idea why this was showing as I had rated this book when I haven't even finished it.Gee, I got so many likes when I was just having a whinge, I don't know why I'm bothering to write a review!
Well, I do know why.
This is one of the best books I've read this year - it is definitely the best fiction that is not a reread.I read it as a straight doppelganger story and still found it wonderfully complex - & du Maurier's skilled writing made me believe the unbelievable.
this is how classic fiction should make one feel.
I am not sure what I can say about this that hasn't already been said in other reviews...but, I can tell you for certain that I loved it.
Du Maurier is one of my favorite authors.
It brings a lot of self-introspection and often times has the reader asking, "What would I do in this situation?" The are memorable characters you won't soon (if ever) forget.
I picked it up first at a very low price on Amazon for Kindle when my buddies decided to read it.
And, I listen to a lot of audio books.
he meets his Shadow, the evil Frenchman Jean - his Exact Double.
Evil Jean conks him out with booze, changes John's identity into his own privileged, noble one- then exits, stage right.
John is left to himself in a strange chateau, with a strange new identity and even stranger new family.
Will John fool them all and turn his madcap Shadow's Evil plans into Good - and finally give his own life purpose in the process?Okay!
Now the reason why my grandmother gave it to me.I was like John as a kid - a reader; a dreamer; an underachiever.
Next, you might actually begin to think that you can help these people if you can just avoid detection long enough.
What Daphne du Maurier achieved is a well-crafted and suspenseful mystery that pulled me into the story very swiftly and even though I've closed the cover I still feel like a deer staring into headlights.
But, I've read other novels by du Maurier and that seems to be part of her style; she makes me come to my own conclusion.
If this sounds like too much effort to put into pleasure reading, I assure you it's well worth the time spent turning pages.
What an amazing story! I read the second half in one go because I just couldn’t put it down. Oh what a tangled web..! This book had all the feels- sadness, hope, love, regret, redemption, transformation and loss. The ending was the right one but I railled against it. Once again I am in awe of Du Maurier’s skill. This story will sit with me for quite some time.Recommended
Um livro muito bem escrito, pode-se dizer que gostei muito, atingindo quase as 5 estrelas. Foi uma amiga que me falou do livro, e eu sem conhecer mais nada da autora, enbarquei nesta viagem entre Jean e Jonh. O enredo está muito bem conseguido e capta a atenção do leitor. Pelo que eu recomendo este livro a quem é exigente nas ficções que lê.
Since Jean is known to be charming one minute and hurtful the next, no one but the dog can tell the difference between the two men.It's a suspenseful psychological study as we learn the secrets of Jean's life through the eyes of John as he works out the relationships and family history.
As he deals with Jean's family, John is transformed.
Will Jean ever return to his family?The book has a wonderful setting--a chateau in St Gilles in the Pas de la Loire.
The book reveals the psychological profiles of the two men and the family layer by layer.
Originally, in the Old Testament book of Leviticus, the High Priest confessed the sins of the people on the Day of Atonement over the head of a live goat which was then allowed to escape, taking the sins with it.
In Daphne du Maurier's excellent novel, an English history professor on his way home from holiday in France, is reflecting on his unfulfilling and lonely life when he meets a man in a restaurant.
The man takes up Jean de Gue's life, penetrating the several mysteries of the family's past and in a bumbling fashion manages to fix everything and restore the family to happiness.
"para lá de qualquer zona proibidahá um espelho para a nossa triste transparência"— Alejandra Pizarnik(Rene Magritte - The Musings Of The Solitary Walker)
Não posso deixar de destacar como as diferentes “histórias” pessoais – ambíguas e quase sempre dominadas pelas paixões e pelas intrigas, mas, sobretudo, pela mentira – se vão interligando, criando uma “história” mais ampla e mais profusa, com um ritmo ágil, por vezes, impetuoso, obrigando o leitor a tentar deslindar a imprevisibilidade do comportamento de John e de Jean – dois homens, ora presentes ora ausentes, o verso e o reverso, a luz e a sombra, o amor e o ódio.
3,5*A inverosimilhança da história retirou-lhe alguma tensão e refreou o meu entusiasmo. Também não gostei particularmente do final. Mas o pior de tudo foi mesmo o completo desleixo que é esta edição, com uma revisão que, embora creditada, mais parece ter sido inexistente, com imensos erros sintácticos, gralhas e omissões de palavras que deturpam ou retiram significado às frases. Dos livros que já li desta autora, este foi o que menos me entusiasmou, mas, ainda assim, o balanço é positivo em termos do comprazimento proporcionado.
But Jean's financial problems drive him to render John unconscious, switch identities and leave him in his place to deal with his failing glass factory and fractious family.
Despite all the pitfalls, John comes to care for this new family and strives to find ways to make the glass factory a success – until a tragedy strikes that brings an unexpected financial windfall to the family's fortunes - but news of that windfalls also brings back......
More than that I'm not telling - you know I'm not into spoilers and book reports.
As with all Du Maurier's books her writing and characterizations are subtle and sublime and I’m once again left with an enigmatic ending that kept me guessing just a little bit more.
I would give 4 stars to this book. However, the plot is very unlikely even that is captivating story. A quite disappointing end, I was expecting a more dramatic one.
An extraordinary novel by the incomparable Du Maurier.
Most know the plot: an Englishman and scholar, bored with his life of detachment, is pushed to change identities with his doppelganger, Jean de Gue, and take on his life and famille in an aged Chateaux and glass-blowing factory in France.
Exquisitely plotted, richly textured, Du Maurier's novel is fully convincing in its portrait of de Gue's adopted life and ways...until-- perhaps--the twists and turns of the ending.
I'm still thinking about how it ends.
It may be right, after all.
Regardless, I applaud Du Maurier and the novel, unlike any other you'll read by her or anyone else.
Someone jolted my elbow as I drank and said, 'Je vous demande pardon, ' and as I moved to give him space he turned and stared at me and I at him, and I realized, with a strange sense of shock and fear and nausea all combined, that his face and voice were known to me too well.
It is not until he awakes the next day that John, the Englishman, realizes that he may have spoken too much.
His French companion is gone, having stolen his identity.
When a dissatisfied Englishman on holiday collides with someone in a railway station, he realizes he’s looking at his double — only his double is French. The next morning, the Englishman discovers his passport and papers have been replaced by the Frenchman’s, so he figures his best option is to assume the Frenchman’s identity. Navigating his new role as master of a chateau and head of a complicated family and family business is tricky enough for the Englishman, but adding to the suspense are his efforts to avoid discovery and unravel dark family secrets. Extremely enjoyable.
Up to its heavy-handed Christian closing, I was in love with this book. Du Maurier brilliantly, engrossingly, explores the haunting yet goofy idea of the doppleganger. The navigation of French culture, mistresses, children, dogs, another's life completely, comes to you mazelike in the narrative. And always, du Maurier twists the tension gleefully.
Another winner from du Maurier!
4.5 starsI planned to write a review, but instead I will simply post my comment made on LeAnne’s great review of another book.Last night I finished The Scapegoat. As I was thinking about it , I realized that a major reason I liked it so (other than the wonderful writing) was that I never felt manipulated, emotionally or otherwise; no twists thrown in without reason, no overinflated social issues, no multiple overinflated social issues, nothing thrown in just for shock value. I could go on and on
4.5 starsI planned to write a review, but instead I will simply post my comment made on LeAnne’s great review of another book.
Last night I finished The Scapegoat.
I could go on and on with so many of the devices rampant in numerous contemporary books I have tried the last few years.
BUT despite that, thanks to my GR friends, I have found MANY hidden gems (contemporary) recently as well!The Scapegoat presents things to ponder.du Maurice is a master.
This I think would have to be my favorite du Maurier novel to date. A marvelous writer. Loved the premise of the novel, the convoluted storyline and the way the relationships were portrayed. Was initially a bit disappointed with the ending but on reflection it was fitting.A big "thank you" to the readers who gave me the "heads up" with this one.
4.5 stars. This was a thought provoking read with lots of surprising twists! I was sad to see it end.
Daphne du Maurier is one of my very favorite writers.
One of my reading goals is to read her entire collection.
Her stories stand up over time because they have a rather timeless quality to them.
I enjoyed this story very much.
One does have to suspend disbelief on one important point in the story, but that is not a problem for me.
Every time I crack open a new du Maurier (new to me), I feel like I an opening a gift.
The major differences involve the love story (non-existent in the book), the long philosophical musings about the meaning of alienation and being a stranger (thankfully non-existent in the movie).(view spoiler)[ Other elements the book alone contains: the scars left by the German occupation in post-WWII France; the fervent Catholicism of the character's daughter Marie-Noel, who claims to receive dreams from the Virgin Mary, and ranges from a deeply moving sacrificial love to a more disturbing tone of yearned martyrdom; the shades of gray in the protagonist's complex motivations.
Just be warned that the book is very unlike the movie, and if you are like me and expected a rosy feel-good story of the new guy battling the evil old guy, you will find a much more complex, fully-fleshed story with shades of gray.
