https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77773.To_Say_Nothing_of_the_Dog
And, to be completely honest, like a symphony, one needs to be in the mood and willing to pay attention, otherwise it just becomes so much soporific background noise.The almost-impossible summary: in the year 2057, Lady Schrapnell (is there a more perfectly named character?) has come to England, determined to rebuild Coventry Cathedral, where her exponentially-great grandmother experienced a life-changing event.
Accompanying them is a genuine Oxford don distracted by fish and history, a tenacious and fierce bulldog named Cyril, and a black cat.
And a half.➽ And the moral of this rerererererereread is: Connie Willis’ amazingly clever writing + one of the most beautifully constructed tale ever + the top ranking boyfriend in my High Security Harem (aka Cyril the Bulldog) + time travel + restful Victorian times delightfully wacky Victorian escapades + PG Wodehouse + awesome space-time continuum incongruities and self-corrections and stuff + hahahahaha  + the very aptly named Lady Shrapnell + Difficulty Distinguishing Sounds + Agatha Christie and my boyfriend Hercule Poirot + exotic Japanese goldfish (or lack thereof) + high explosive bombs + deliciously eccentric Oxford dons + calamities who look like naiads (and vice-versa) + Slowness in Answering + infirmary nurses and the Spanish Inquisition + the regulations of animals in bed + aged relicts (and not-so-aged ones, too) + Ultra + Maudlin Sentimentality + eating vile, unspeakable Victorian things for breakfast + the Blitz + Couples That Come To A Bad End + naughty bad doggums vs.
First, know that I am deeply biased when it comes to this book: it's got time travel, which I love with a love that is more than love, and it's got Cyril, who I love with a love that makes my time travel love look like a Tuesday afternoon romance.
Plus, it's inspired by - and references, oh my god, REFERENCES!
- one of my favorite books, Jerome K.
Jerome's Three Men in a Boat.
So, you know, I won't even attempt a qualitative review.
This book is a frequent re-read and a joy forever.
From the clever phrases and deep PTSD exasperation to the total eventual collapse of the space-time continuum because of a freaking cat to THE BISHOP'S BIRD-STUMP, I find myself chortling nearly twenty years after the first read and again on the re-read.We're catapulted through time thanks to the Oxford History Department's time machine put to the disposal of a wealthy American patron who is, let's be frank, NUTS.
What really happens is a LOT of slippage in the time-stream, a deep mystery, even more miscommunication and strange coincidences and classic slapstick and some of the funniest Victorian Romance I've come across.
It's a high-stakes time-continuum travel and looming disaster, a truly atrocious MacGuffin that has everyone running around like headless chickens in a slapstick comedy, and a classic 1930's Hercule Peroit Agatha Christie mystery.
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award.
That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became a father.
But this was the right book at the right time, and I loved it!With humour, it’s all subjective – it won’t be everyone’s cup of tea but I found it very funny.
While this offbeat time-travel novel is a sequel of sorts to Doomsday Book, they have completely different vibes, and it's not really necessary to have read Doomsday Book before this one.
This is one of my favorite books in the world, but it's kind of an odd one that probably won't work for everyone.
It's a little bit madcap farce, with people running and time-hopping around trying to find some obscure, ugly piece of Victorian art; it's got a bit of romantic comedy, a bit of mystery, and a lot of this and that kind of all mashed together in a way that can seem confusing at times, but in the end is ABSOLUTELY BRILLIANT.Give it a shot.
Oh, dear.
Every time I see the title of this book it makes me feel anxious.
I am almost ashamed to say this in public, but I will be brave: I didn't like it.
I know.
Everyone loves it and I can't explain why I don't.
Normally I love all the elements that make up this book: time travel, romance, the 19th century.
*sigh* It makes me feel defective but there you are.
I didn't like it.The only reason I'm really posting this review is in case there is another person out there who doesn't like it and would be comforted to know that they aren't alone.
Had I done my random clicking pre-Goodreads, I may well have passed on this novel, because "science-fiction fantasy" does not describe the kind of novel I generally read.
(hide spoiler)]I absolutely loved reading this, all the more so because I took the advice of some GR reviewers and read Three Men in a Boat first.
This was the ideal novel to read while on holidays and I want to read it again.
Here's to serendipitous random clicking, The Guardian and the expansion of literary boundaries brought to me courtesy of Goodreads.

To Say Nothing of the Dog is part of Ms Willis' loosely connected Oxford Time Travel series which includes Doomsday Book but the tone is very different.
I like that she is using a different term for these paradoxes from the standard time travelling stories it somehow makes the story seem more believable.To Say Nothing of the Dog is not a laugh-a-minute book, it is not a complete success as a comic novel, but neither is it a failure.
More importantly, as a lighthearted time travelling sci-fi novel it is worth a read.
It is a revelation, smart and funny, especially a particular mix-up about Cyril. Romance, time travel, history, this book has it all.
Yes, that means that the time continuum itself is kind of like a character here.Due to the fact that the historians are working around the clock, suffering from time lag (yes, like jet lag, only worse), mistakes are made and slowly but surely we notice that the timeline (the net) is fighting back.Ned, one of the historians, is suffering so much from time lag that he is sent to Victorian England for recovery (out of the way of Mrs. Schrapnell) just as a colleague of his has accidentally brought a cat forwards in time, supposedly violating the afore-mentioned time continuum law, which could even lead to the Nazis finding out about the Enigma having been compromised - which could, in turn, lead to a different outcome of WWII!
I didn't feel like it really got going until well into 200+ pages.Another thing was that I just didn't get how this book was "hilarious".
I was curious as to how it would all work out - of course I was never in any doubt that it would all work out somehow.I give it an extra half star because I like how the end sort of wrapped up everything nicely, while at the same time leaving a little dangling question, and I like how the romance between Verity and Ned was handled in juxtaposition to the saccharine Tossie and St. Trewes thing.
This is the third Connie Willis I've read, and I was a little leery.
While I really enjoyed Passage, Lincoln's Dreams was pretty much the same book, written earlier, and less well.
So I was a little worried about her recycling plots.
And maybe she does, but this book has very little in common with either earlier book, and was thoroughly delightful and surprising.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
4.5 stars, just to be clear.Part time travel adventure, part comedy of manners and part mystery, To Say Nothing of the Dog is a little bit of everything I love about books.
The story is told through the eyes of Ned Henry, a time travelling historian in the not-too-distant future, as we witness his adventures into the late Victorian past.
It’s so difficult not to go on and on about every little fascinating reference to Victorian culture and literature, and every brilliant twist in the time travel narrative, but the enjoyment is in the gradual reveal of detail, so I don’t want to give anything away here.
Most of this book was four stars for me but then it went and got clever.
It ended up being completely brilliant and I got some excellent laughs out of it, especially the end.Poor Ned Henry has a severe case of time lag and he's been to way too many jumble sales.
and then they spend most of the book frantically trying to make sure that Tossie marries Mr. C.
to stop the space-time continuum from being destroyed.There are literary references galore and it creates an especially delightful homage to Agatha Christie and classic detective fiction.
She's brilliant and wonderfully funny.
Oxford historian Ned Henry is trying desperately to find a hideous Victorian object, the Bishop's Bird Stump, shuttling back and forth between World War Two and the Victorian Era. Meanwhile, another historian, Verity Kindle, accidentally brings something back from the past, potentially changing history and destroying time-travel.
Ned (who only knows about the Victorian Era from Jerome K.
Jerome's book, Three Men in a Boat to Say Nothing of the Dog) and Verity have to live in a ridiculous-and completely realistic-Victorian house, trying to help history correct itself but generally making things worse.
With great characters and intricate details, this is a superb novel.
I've now read all of Connie Willis' Oxford Time Travel novels and I have to say that I found this one to be the best. The story was intriguing and funny and didn't have any of the ridiculous tension issues of the other books. No communication issues anywhere. No mistaken identities. Yes there were mysteries and things that needed to be resolved but they were handled in a way that made it enjoyable to read, not frustrating.I look forward to seeing where she takes this series next. Highly recommend this book.
This was a fun romp -- perfect summer reading, and a nice homage to P.G. Wodehouse, whose books I've really enjoyed. There are enough twists and turns that I'll probably be just as pleasantly surprised by how the events play out in a re-read, too.
"Uh-huh." There's a bit of silence on the other end of the phone, then he blurts, "Well, she's fallen in front of the courthouse annex and she looks pretty bad." "Uhm, Doc, how bout you check out your next patient, MJ fell and I gotta go get her.
It is your basic time travel story, complete with the classic time travel paradox, i.e. don't change anything, you'll screw everything back in the present to heck and gone.Willis won the Hugo and Locus Awards for Best Science Fiction (I don't believe they have awards for speculative fiction, do they?) in 1998.
The action picks up from there, with a cast of quirky characters, including the ditzy blonde Tossie, the pre-raphaelite beauty Verity, eccentric professors, prudish-and-proper parents, fraudulent psychics, and, of course, Princess Arjumand.I haven't read "Three Men in a Boat, to Say Nothing of the Dog!" by Jerome K.
Jerome - a genuine Victorian comedy that apparently inspired Willis stylistically - but I can say that this book would definitely appeal to any fans of Victorian fiction (experts in the field would, I'm sure, 'get' many things that I missed), as well as classic mystery fans (Arthur Conan Doyle and Agatha Christie are referenced more than once), and, of course, sci-fi/time travel aficionados.
Ah, I was so bummed when this book was over, I would have gladly stayed with these characters for at least a month, that's how delightful they were.
Even when Willis writes about the more annoying characters, it's with such bonhomie they become like irritating family members that you hope will leave soon but they are still family so you're stuck with them, and after they leave you can have a good laugh and roll your eyes at their antics.
And I miss Cyril and Princess Amahajumed the most, I wish I could take them home with me!Another great one from Connie Willis.
Willis does an excellent job balancing the time travel plot and the quest for the Bishop's Bird Stump with the Victorian era events that Ned and Verity end up mucking up a bit.
By the end we discover the mystery behind all the tricks the continuum has been playing on the time travelers and just what happened to that wretched bird stump (a solution found using nothing but Ned's "little gray cells" as Poirot would say).
The ending felt a bit rushed and cluttered but it did get the important points acrossAll in all well worth reading as the absurd characters, great writing, and time travel mystery really kept me engaged.
Heinlein, (to whom To Say Nothing of the Dogis dedicated) in which the main character, Kip, interrupts his father as he is reading HIS favorite book, Three Men in a Boat, in which, he claims, all of life's lessons can be found.I think To Say Nothing of the Dog would be fine to read if you'd never read any of Jerome K.
This book is the best book.That is all.Okay maybe it's not all.I don't even know how to describe it ... a ridiculously clever, ridiculously funny madcap time-travelling Victoriana-infused romp?Profoundly Oxfordy as well - full of references and allusions that make me at once feel at one and in on a snooty private joke. Which is a feeling I kinda enjoy. Because I'm a bad person.Also Lady Shrapnel is the best name for a villain.
"When was the last time I’d eaten? A cup of tea and a rock cake at the Women’s Institute Victory Drive Sale of Work was all I could remember, and that was at least two days and fifty-two years ago."This was absurd and witty and very, very funny. I’m a sucker for absurd and funny.
This is definitely a comfort read for me.
The horror of war!*** I own a copy that is spine-challenged and so worn from re-reading, even though I am a particularly gentle user of books.
Comfort in times of stress, indeed.
The other is that Willis holds two superlatives in my book.
She is the author who makes me cry the hardest ("Last of the Winnebagos", Doomsday Book, Passage) and also the one who makes me laugh the hardest (Bellwether, To Say Nothing of the Dog, and Crosstalk).And another thought: this may be the book I've read the most.
All of Connie Willis' other time travel books are too long. This one is too short.That said, I think it is incredibly cruel to create a future timeline with no cats in it. I have seen your future, and I do not want to live in it.(view spoiler)[Good thing the space-time continuum apparently abhors a vacuum of kittens. (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[Wow, how often to you manage to cram two "uu" words into the same sentence? (hide spoiler)]
Disclaimer: written as a reader, not as author.Plot summary: Future Oxford academics need money to fund their research into time, so they make deal with the devil, who is known as Lady Schrapnell, an American woman of steel will and much money.
Unfortunately, Lady Schrapnell doesn't believe in time sickness and keeps sending him on jumps.It soon becomes apparent that one of the historians created a paradox and now Ned is sent back to Victorian times, both to fix the paradox and to hide from Lady Schrapnell while he recuperates.
Reviewing an uncategorizable book--an overbearing billionaress--rebuilding a cathedral--God is in th
