https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1171368.The_Well_of_the_Unicorn
R. Eddison.
In a way it was--he grows in prestige and influence--but also develops political and moral entanglements that complicate the story.
What was originally a very black-and-white moral viewpoint becomes increasingly complex as Airar develops working relationships with soldiers and rebels whose goals do not necessarily match his own.
His early assertion that men can cooperate without being dominated seems increasingly unlikely; indeed his own freedom becomes more and more limited with every step up the rung of power and respect.The situation is complex enough that a glossary would be welcome.
Eddison had a similar scheme and I wonder if this is drawn from some literary tradition.
This book is considered one of the first modern epic fantasies; it was published six years before The Lord of the Rings.
Like the His Dark Materials series by Philip Pullman, this book operates on more than one level: on one level, it's a great epic story that would make one hell of a kick-ass CGI blockbuster, with sea demons and embittered mercenaries and scary dark towers galore.
It's not always easy reading; the prose is very dialect-heavy and has a little bit of that faux-medieval stilted fantasy thing going on.
But this is one of those books that I've had for years and finally decided that I either needed to read or get rid of, and I'm glad that I read it.
Through this, he meets three women who play a large part in his increasing good fortune, a fisher girl, a woman who dresses as a man to be a mercenary captain, and finally the one he really falls for, a princess of the Empire who is way beyond his social reach.One of the interesting aspects of the novel is the spring from which it is named.
This should resolve the dispute, but it does not erase the personality of the drinker, and one of the stories about the Well recounted in the novel is of a Vulking count who defies the water's properties to attack his enemies again.The Well of the Unicorn also has philosophical concerns unusual in the genre at the time.
He seems unlucky in love as well as we follow his awkward encounters with the women he meets (and invariably falls in love with) on the way.All in all it is an epic story set in a complex world, of a simple man attempting to come to terms with the complexities of reality.
In addition the archaic, antiquated prose (stylised to excess) serves as a barrier to engaging with the story but not unmanageable once you get used to it.A worthy entry in the Masterworks series although it won't be to everyone's taste.
The first time I tried to read this book, I abandoned it after ~60 pages.
I had the same exact feelings this second time around, but soldiered through because after all I did kind of like the Harold Shea stories that Pratt cowrote and this novel seems to be highly regarded.
But The Well of the Unicorn...
On both readings I found it dull and lifeless and torturous to slog through, and couldn't even tell when or if the story proper began!
Even having read the whole book, the plot structure is a mystery to me.
Worst unicorn book ever.
This is a superior fantasy novel in many ways. The casting of magic has drawbacks, the war scenes are intense and brutal, the romance is not simplistic, and the politics are fully realized. Unfortunately it is this last positive that too often became a negative. Long scenes consisting of arguments over policy and war tactics soon became the focus of each chapter. Character development that had been at the forefront took a backseat to long round table discussions that were interesting at first but soon became repititious. If Pratt had edited himself better he could have created a difinitive fantasy.
A few of the heroes are gay which is astonishing for a book from 1948.Parallels to history can be seen on two levels: On a more distant level, the emperor can be equated with the Holy Roman Emperor of the German nation, the Vulkings could symbolize the Franks or a comparable dominant medieval realm.On a more recent level it could be argued that the author took up the recent history from WW II and translated the powers to this story with the Vulkings representing the Nazis, the sea-based liberty adoring pirate realm could be the United States and the Carrhoenes who only decide jointly, could be the USSR.This is what makes the Well of the Unicorn a remarkable novel worth reading.
Pratt’s use of language is interesting; he uses the word “a” to replace pretty much any pronoun, a use I’ve seen in other fantasy works; he also uses “un” in what appears to be the same way.Visto shrugged and the shadows danced again.
I’m none so sure but I am with un [him], yet thought your interest should just have its word to speak.”In this case it’s fairly easy to parse out the modern pronouns (she and him).
Whether it truly does so is questionable, but other magic clearly exists in the world.
They're light stories, lovingly parodic of their source material.By contrast, though The Well of the Unicorn vaguely borrows its fantasy world from a Dunsany play (as Pratt says in the intro, he projects the history of that world several generations into its future), it takes its setting seriously--no jokes are made here at the expense of fantasy as a genre, except...When you read the jacket of this book, it may sound classic, i.e., boring: a farmboy goes on a journey and fulfills his great destiny.
It shows a strong tendency in the direction of Tolkien's careful construction of a "secondary world," especially in geography and political-military history; the front of the book has a map like the ones typical of post-Tolkien fantasy, and the map really is important for the plot, which ranges all over it.
Less comfortably, they're also given to some viciously sexist and racist attitudes (the latter mostly regarding to the "barbarous Mictons" of the North, who are not on either side of the main conflict) that make Middle-Earth look like a model of political correctness.
I enjoyed this a great deal and devoured it in relatively short order.
What prevents me from five-starring this is a lack of strong characterization and somewhat unsatisfying story arc.I will say that I enjoyed the writing.
Missing characterization is made up for by insight and poetical rhetoric.
I enjoyed the dynamic of the wizard advisor and the war leader, which borrowed some Arthurian tones but was more satisfying to me in this reading.
I plan to revisit this book at a later date in order to tease out more understanding from the text.
I read relatively quickly to pad my page count for 2013.
It took me two attempts to read this.
It is, in fact, a pretty good book; good world building and realistic takes on the problems of government, rebellion and war.
The problem is the writing style is very difficult to read.
It is written in a kind of psuedo-archaic style that made me give up after a chapter or two.
I tried again a few months later and just powered through.
I eventually got used to the style and ended up liking the book.
It is a classic of the genre, which is why I gave it a second chance, just be forewarned.
Closely written account of how a man begins in rebellion from good motives, gradually acquiring dubious allies of more cruelty than those they overthrow, moving to a state of constant strife.Re-read May 2012 - I enjoy the philosophising and would benefit hugely from reading some critical commentary on whether the Well is a good thing or not. Its means of preventing strife seem quite questionable, as do the motives of many a character. Not the easiest of reads, you do have to pay quite close attention.
An amazing epic; dark, thoughtful, occasionally disturbing and horrific, and written in a style all its own. It was published several years before The Lord of the Rings, and could not be more different from from it, apart from the fact that both conjure such vivid, familiar but alien worlds. I've heard about this book for years, but only got around to reading in this year, and will probably re-read it as much as I have LotR.
"The reader is not introduced to this world in easy stages; it is a going concern when the reader arrives on the scene and he is expected to find his way around in it by the same process of keeping his mouth shut and his eyes and ears open that he is frequently forced to use when he takes a new job or mores to a new community." - Fletcher PrattI like books that do this. That is why I sometimes skip the first volume of a multi-volume series.
A surprisingly complex Fantasy novel complete in one volume. If it were written today it would probably be stretched out to at least seven volumes. Pratt delves into the political complexities behind the Fantasy adventure, and our hero sacrifices his happiness and those of his friends and loved ones in order to achieve the goals he believes his father would have wanted him to achieve.
The cadence took me awhile before I got it flowing. Magnificent otherwise. A world with working plumbing. Can you ask for more from epic fantasy?
classic fantasy. Should be read as a menas ot understand some of the basic ideas in fantasy.
mentioned in http://www.sfwa.org/2005/01/on-thud-a...
Oddball, pre-Tolkien classic. Pretty dark and gritty for high fantasy.
The Well of the Unicorn (1948) a Bildungsroman set in a world subtly irradiated by magic.
Above average fantasy novel. I forget much if the specifics but enjoyed the discussion of siege warfare.
Written before the genre got established, this book is refreshingly fresh due to its absence of fantasy cliches. But not exactly a page turner. I petered out before finishing.
Predating even "The Lord of the Rings" trilogy (1954), "The Well of the Unicorn" is an early fantasy novel, written in 1948.
The book tells the story of a young man kicked out of his home by an invading force and the man's wanderings and ultimate participation in a war against the invaders.Perhaps this sort of fantasy plot was fresh in 1948, but it's now a pretty tiring read.
The characters have no real depth, the plot seems sort of arbitrary, and the writing style is clumsy.
It's often to figure out exactly what's going on and to keep track of the many different characters and what their motives all are.
Fletcher Pratt's series of collaborations with L.
The two would work out the outline of the story together, De Camp would then write the first draft, Pratt the final draft and De Camp would add final touches to Pratt's version.
It was a method that worked well and these stories are still very enjoyable.
"The Well of the Unicorn" is a fantasy novel by Pratt alone and was originally published in 1948 under the name of George U Fletcher.
So while the novel does have its moments, I just didn't find enough of them to make it a particularly enjoyable read.
Boring and written too strangely.
Didn't start well, so I didn't get far.
