https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/668634.Dimension_of_Miracles
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Homo Ludens: “Dimension of Miracles” by Robert SheckleyViva la dialecticacacaca!
Anyway, on the unitary consciousness and death, here is a very nice excerpt from Robert Sheckley's “Dimension of Miracles”, in which the hero (Carmody) has a chat with a God (Melichrone):"I abolished them," Melichrone said.
"I did away with all life on myplanet, living and otherwise, and I also deleted the Hereafter.Frankly, I needed time to think.""Huh," Carmody said, shocked."In another sense, though, I didn't destroy anything or anyone,"Melichrone said hastily.
Melichrone said.
It is exactly the same as death, though it sounds much nicer."I love all that Robert Sheckley kind of stuff.
Or, that's the most succinct way I can think of to say that he's entirely useless and that well-meaning aliens/people/gods/whatever shuttle him around space & time in search of his Earth, repeatedly saving his ass from a Predator that spawned out of the out-of-true nature of the universe because Carmody isn't where he's supposed to be, and will hunt him until he either returns to his proper Earth or is eaten.
I get it, and I get that it's supposed to be profound and brave, and whatever, but I just can't help thinking that it's pretty damn selfish and entitled, and any small liking that I had for inept and dull Carmody was wiped out with his final decision.
This book is similar to the Hitchhiker's Guide series in construction, and nearly as good, but hardly anyone has heard of it. If you're an HHTG fan who's still in withdrawal following Douglas Adams's untimely departure, consider reading some Sheckley.  Mindswap  and the short story collections are equally brilliant.Dimension of Miracles contains a brilliant and haunting idea which I often think about. (view spoiler)[The hero, Thomas Carmody, has been taken from Earth to receive a Prize in the Ga
(view spoiler)[The hero, Thomas Carmody, has been taken from Earth to receive a Prize in the Galactic Sweepstakes.
Of all the many alternate parallel Earths, how can he recognise his own home?
And all along, he's being pursued by a fiendish and inexorable enemy, the Predator.After many adventures, Carmody does finally solve Where, When and Which and returns to the world he came from.
He is now doomed to a terrifying existence where he will for ever have to flee the Predator through increasingly unlikely Earths.
His companion, the Prize, asks him what he thinks he will do with his life."I will live it," replies Carmody.
You should know by now that life is a sloppy affair, that power tends to break things up rather than put things together, and that the greater the intelligence, the higher the degree of complication which it detects.”And cosmic philosophy is much more profound:“Order is merely a primitive and arbitrary relational grouping of objects in the chaos of the Universe…”And those who play the role of God have their own cosmic theology:“I am doubtless as vain as the next God; but the endless fulsome praise finally bored me to distraction.
Why in God’s name should a God be praised if he is only performing his Godly function?
Absurd and sometimes hilariously funny, sometimes convolutedly philosophical.Carmody was a quiet man, of a predominantly melancholic humour, with a face that neatly matched the elegiac contours of his disposition.
Carmody has won a Prize in the Intergalactic Sweepstakes, and is taken to the Galactic Centre to collect it.
And so his adventures and temporal, spatial and philosophical meanderings begin.
Earth isn’t where it was when he left; if he gets back comes the question: when does he get back – in his own time or not (not) and of the possible Earths, which is his?
Infinite (im)possibilities.
This is like the granddaddy of absurd intergalactic misadventure tales, published over ten years before Douglas Adams' The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy!The story follows an unlucky schlemiel trying to return home to Earth (and the correct one among an infinity of alternate universe Earths) after unsuspectingly winning the galactic sweepstakes.
-"It's been one of my favourite books for years, and I remember Douglas Adams telling me how shaken he was to read Dimension of Miracles and watch someone doing something a lot like the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy a decade before he did."
So together with his Prize they seek help getting back to the correct Earth, appealing to Gods, Planet Contractors, and others, all the while pursued by Carmody's personal Predator.
But give them something tough, like solacing a window, and they simply go to pieces.""In short, Earth is a diseased place.
The place will then be rehabilitated and turned into a refuge for daffodils.""An error exists by virtue of it's consequences, which alone give it resonance and meaning.
I say, better to commit no error at all than to commit an act of pious hypocricy!""This is what has happened to you, Carmody.
Comic science fiction isn't a genre that appeals to me that much, but this was as charmingly dated as a Bradbury story and as fresh and current as an episode of Rick and Morty. I listened to the audiobook, terrifically read by John Hodgman; if anyone would like it, holler at me and I'll Dropbox it to you.
Q:Wherever you go in the galaxy, you can find a food business, a house-building business, a war business, a peace business, a governing business, and so forth. And, of course, a God business, which is called 'religion,' and which is a particularly reprehensible line of endeavor. (c)
What a spectacular book.
Please disregard the fact that Carmody had no clue there was any life outside of Earth, let alone they had contests and he was someone an entrant.
Carmody takes this news with poise and he collects his Prize after a challenge from another contestant.
In the end, this is a novel about the peculiarities of life and how it drives all players crazy.
By the way, this book is often cited as Hitchhikers' Guide before there was a Hitchhikers' Guide.
If you like Douglas Adams, try this book.
I really like Gaiman's work and I figured I would probably also like a book that he recommends.
In his exploits thereafter, he meets a number of strange characters on several interesting worlds as he attempts to return to Earth.My favorite part was probably when Tom was transported to Earth during the dinosaur age and proceeds to have a very charming conversation with a Tyrannosaurus Rex.John Hodgman was an excellent choice to narrate this novel.
It won't go down as my all-time favorite, but it was still a fun read that I would recommend to anyone looking for a comedic sci-fi story.
Before Douglas Adams, there was Robert Sheckley.
Before "Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy," there was "Dimension of Miracles." This is a very strange book to read.
Strange not only because the plot is so twisted and weird it's pretty much impossible to tell with a straight face--it involves a lottery ticket that was never purchased, a prize that rivals the Major Award in "Christmas Story," and lots of other things--but the writing...oh my goodness The Writing!
To compare the writing to Douglas Adams would be a disservice to Sheckley since he came before Adams, but they are definitely of the same cloth.
Sheckley's finest. The writing equivalent of stepping in sun-baked gum on hot summer asphalt. The kind of plot even the editorial team of Superman Family would reject. But hey, talking dinosaurs with day jobs and interstellar bureaucracy. Sheckley: wanted by the consistency police for plots against humanity.
I first read Dimension of Miracles some 30 years ago as a teenager and enjoyed it back then, but now I am totally infatuated with it's sheer brilliance.
It was written before The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, and Douglas Adams claimed he read it only after he wrote the Guide, but the similarity of tone and mood is amazing.
This may be a dangerous thing to say, but I think that Dimension of Miracles is deeper and richer beneath the same light tone sparkling with paradoxes and irony it shares with the Guide.
Most reviews of Dimension of Miracles seem to stress the novel's relation to Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy.
Where Hitchhiker's is laugh out loud funny, the humor here is more internally amusing.
Where Douglas Adams is scattershot, Robert Sheckley gives a pretty straightforward plot.
Adams' pessimism comes across as increasingly angry and cynical as the series goes on.
Sheckley's is more sad and resigned.
The two works do complement each other well, but Dimension of Miracles is very much its own experience.
Robert Sheckley's book is too interesting and thoughtful to be forced to suffer under the weight of undue comparison to Hitchhiker's Guide
I listened to the audiobook narrated by John Hodgman and it was wonderful. It was part of a series curated by Neil Gaiman, and he gave a little introduction and did a discussion with Hodgman afterwards. I wish every audiobook had that!The book itself was delightful... incredibly prescient (especially if you love the Hitchhiker books) and somehow manages to be completely timeless--unlike many older sci-fi books, there is very little that plays as dated or old-fashioned. Highly recommended for fans of classic sci-fi.
This audiobook is part of Neil Gaiman presents, a series of books selected by Neil Gaiman for Audible for which Gaiman selects the narrator.I can't believe I never discovered Robert Sheckley during the 70's when science fiction was the only genre I ever read. This book has all the elements I most enjoyed about science fiction of that time in which the possibility for out-of-this-world adventure provided the perfect environment for introspection and critically appraising our lives.
Before Terry Pratchett and Douglas Adams, there was Robert Sheckley. As I read “Dimension of Miracles,” I kept thinking that Carmody really needed his bath towel and a little of Rincewind’s creative cowardice. Sheckley was well known in science fiction circles, but he never had the high culture profile of Pratchett or Adams. His wit has more bite than theirs though his style is not as polished. He is well worth a read, and “Dimension” is a good place to start.
Carmody has a visitor appear and award him a prize.... The Galactic Prize, that is. Things get stranger with every turn of the page. My favorite science-fiction writer from my youth and this is my favorite of his books. I think he was the inspiration for Vonnegut's Kilgore Trout and Douglas Adam's acknowledged this short novel as the blueprint for the Hitchhikers Guide books.
I read this long before I ever heard of Douglas Adams, and I find Sheckley to be funnier--- less self-conscious or precious, a bit edgier. This must be long out of print, but it's worth finding. Utterly hilarious.
I've read most of Sheckley's books and short story collections and I believe that the highest density of Sheckley style humor lies between these covers. Maybe onmy rivaled by the his great parable "Journey Beyond Tomorrow".
I still remember the opening, when he receives "Greetings". Travel across the universe with no guarantee you will ever get back. Hilarious stuff.
Computers are infallible. When they make a mistake, it is in fact correct, as the design included the probability of the error, and it performed as designed. Perfect.
I dove right in.First things first: this book is really not too much like Hitchhiker's.
Whereas Hitchhiker's might sprinkle a bit of playful philosophy in to set up a punch line, Miracles is quite set on discussing the philosophical conundrums its protagonist keeps falling into.The key word there is discuss.
The bulk of the book is effectively monologues in which various "wacky" characters lecture the protagonist about how the galaxy really works, and the protagonist doing the conversational equivalent of nodding his head.And none of this monologuing is really all that funny or interesting.
So many of the elements Douglas Adams took and made something special out of.
Adams may have written science fiction, but he was steeped in an English tradition that included his hero P G Wodehouse.
Adams learnt how to turn a phrase: find all the bits of the Hitch-hikers series that have been quoted, stitch them together, and you've pretty much got the Hitch-hikers series.
The bits of it that are worth reading, anyway.
Sheckley deals out a series of funny situations and set-ups, but fails to develop them; fails to extract any real value from them beyone the original idea.
I don't have time to list all the things that were bad about both this novel and this performance of it.
It's a terrible, boring, vapid, predictable, soggy, and ridiculous pastiche of attempts at satire.
It's terrible.But OK.
Lots of books are bad.
But this performance of it is particularly awful, as Hodgman butchers it in ways both unspeakable and uncountable.
I literally lost count of the number of times Hodgman's vocal inflection were precisely the opposite of what the book described.
I'm amazed that he could be so bad.I genuinely wanted to like this book.
70's era book which was an inspiration for HHGTG...
This was SO funny and clever!
Wonderful science fiction. If you like the genre please read this.
Abstract scifi humour at its greatest heights. If you love The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy then you probably going to love also this book.
