https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1079021.The_Red_Lamp
At the beginning of the last chapter, when she has led you on so many wild goose chases that you don't care about, and then left most of the book unresolved, she writes this "synopsis", instead of writing it into the plot of the book.
She even says at the beginning of the chapter something like "...so and so's solving of the murder left some very interesting items for discussion"..or something like that.
The psychic stuff was kind of interesting, and there were some scary moments in the book, but you get over being scared about half way through, after you stop caring.
She is the "Had I but known" School of mystery writing.
This book bored me to sleep, twice!
***1/2.After all of my many years of reading mystery/detective novels, I have never read a book by Ms. Rinehart.
At this point in time, I was simply looking for novels in that genre from “The Golden Age,” the period between WW I and WW II.
I learned that Ms. Rinehart was one of the most popular – if not the most popular – writer of detective novels of the period.
It is actually very literate – the style of writing that today seems to turn people off.
All told, this novel has put me on the road to read more of Ms. Rinehart.
This book got on my reading list by a convoluted route: my sister read a review of a book about a guy who reviewed mystery novels back in the first half of the 20th century (the golden age of mysteries, some would say), and the review included a list of his favorites.
So my sister decided to read some of his favorites, and she gave this one to me after she read it.
But it was not just a page-turner, I enjoyed reading it, even as I was eager to get to the end.
A fine mix of mystery and ghost story. Perfect for the Halloween season.
The Red Lamp was published in 1925. I read it in about 1969. I got to me. Ghosts, seances, and murder most foul. It is as good as an Agatha Christie. In some ways it is silly and old fashioned, but it retains the ability to entertain. No I did not feel the shiver of ghostly presence this time around, but I enjoyed the nostalgic thrill of adventure.
Normally, I don't care for novels about the supernatural, and the beginning of this was rather tedious. But once I got into the story, I found it quite engaging. Likeable protagonist. Interesting problem.
Tedious readThis book has not held up well over time. It can get downright annoying at times. The language is outdated and much of the action is sandwiched between boring lulls of paranoia.
Confusing story telling by one of the groundbreakers of the mystery genre.
Love her books....always a great escape.
Early Bird Book Deal | Twice as long as it needed to be, badly paced.
If you read the back of the book, you would suspect that The Red Lamp by Mary Roberts Rinehart is a bit gothic in nature.
The others thought her fears were groundless--until they felt the evil iridescence of the Red Lamp, and realized how terrifyingly right she was.But then you read the book and you find out this isn't a woman-in-danger book.
As the detective Greenough tells him, "you'll have to admit that you've seemed to go out of your way all summer to get into trouble!" So, what is the trouble, you ask?Well...Professor William Porter has inherited Twin Towers from his Uncle Horace.
Now I'm not suggesting that The Red Lamp doesn't live up to the tension and suspense of the synopsis, because it does.
I just can't help but chuckle every time I read the back cover of a vintage mystery novel.Narrated by Professor William Porter, The Red Lamp is an interesting twist on a haunted house mystery.
A red lamp, used by an infamous medium, is seen glowing from the windows of the main house.
The strengths of the book saved it for me, but part of me thinks The Red Lamp could have been so much better.
Narrative of an English Professor's daily journal of strange goings-on, supernatural happenings & murders during his summer vacation at the seaside.
Written in the early 1900's, so the language is very old-fashioned, & Mary Roberts Rinehart uses words I've never heard of.
Not many conversations between characters.
Like Prof.
Porter might be talking to his niece's boyfriend, & between conversations, many ruminations so sometimes I lost the thread of their talk!
Also the description of the story on the back jacket is misleading, as the one character it mentions is hardly in the book!
But I guess that was a marketing tactic.
This was such a fun read for me. Written almost 100 years ago, it is a mystery set in an old home by a bay with a professor, ghosts, and murder. It is written in journal entries and because of that the mystery unfolds slower than a modern day mystery, with the story slowly unfolding day by day. At times the pace was maddening, but probably no more than any other mystery where you just want to know how it is going to end. It was well written and I can't wait to pick up one of her other mysteries!
This was a very mediocre mystery/ghost story. It is written in the form of the diary of a man, who moves with his wife and their niece to house he has just inherited. The uncle who left him the house died under suspicious circumstances. There are confusing suggestions that a phony psychic who formerly lived there was involved in foul play, or that the house may really be haunted, or both. It's not a creepy, mysterious or clever story, but the situations and dialog were sometimes funny, so I got through it.
A great mystery! I especially appreciated the narrator being an English literature professor - the "inside jokes" and nods to the profession, as well as a terrific grasp on the psyche of those in the profession, made it even more fun to read.
Very classic..It's feel like you're watching the old movies..
read some time in 1990
2 1/2. A bit boring and very eye-rolling conclusion to the mystery.
I couldn't finish this one. Not sure why. It seemed a little disjointed and I just couldn't get into the story.
My very favorite, MRR, ever!
