https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42986.War_and_Remembrance
The whole wild holocaust of fire and smoke went roaring skyward and streaming astern, for the stricken carrier was still rushing at full speed into the wind…”-	Herman Wouk, War and Remembrance How do you follow up an epic masterpiece like The Wind of War?
In The Winds of War, Wouk told the story of the world’s descent into World War II through dozens of characters, most of them centered around the American Naval family of Victor “Pug” Henry.
As in the first book, Wouk uses the device of book excerpts from a fictional book (World Holocaust) written by a fictional German general (Armin von Roon) and translated by the also fictional Pug Henry.
1382 PAGES COMPLETE! Let me first say, was about this being a challenge for me as well as about reading this particular book. From the afterward in the author's notes Herman Wouk sum it all up. "The purpose of the author in both War and Remembrance and The Winds of War was to bring the past to vivid life through the experiences, perceptions, and passions of a few people caught in the war's maelstrom. This purpose was best served by scrupulous accuracy of locale and historical fact, as the backd
I started this journey with Herman Wouk asking the question "What was WWII about?" He gave the settings and the mechanics so to speak in Winds of War but War and Remembrance was a masterpiece.
Personal note:Years ago working in admissions in the Cancer center of a local hospital I registered a man who had a number tattooed on his thick gray hairy arms.
At the end of the registration as I placed an admissions bracelet on this exact wrist he said, "Deb I survived this tattoo, I'll beat this Cancer don't you worry." I don't remember my response now.
But as I read this book, I wondered...about the nice man with the numbers on his arm.
As with all great novels, these books are not meant merely to entertain, but to teach and communicate something of the human condition.
I sometimes feel like placid, comfortable lives tend to obscure humanity: there is no need for greatness and no opportunity.
This is also dealt with in the story, for though the events of this story take place during a world war, a relatively small part of the book takes place during actual combat.
In my mind it stands with  War and Peace as one of the greatest novels of all time.
I can't say I liked these as much as she did.This duology concentrated more heavily (so heavily) on the romances and love lives of the characters in these books that I was hardily sick of them by the time I finished.
The books basically became one long extended soap opera so far as I was concerned.
no details here to avoid a spoiler, but) one of our female protagonists makes such incomprehensible decisions it came very close to winning the book a flight out the window.
It is, along with The Winds of War, the Gold Standard of historical fiction for World War II.Readers should seriously consider reading The Winds of War before reading this book for two reasons.
One, the first book in the dualology is a prequel and the understanding the story and the characters makes reading the second book that much more enjoyable.
The second reason is to be sure you like how Herman Wouk writes and treats history.
If that’s the case, you need not waste your time reading the second book.For me, however, Wouk is a master storyteller and these two books are fantastic.
After I read the book that preceded this one, I immediately started this one.
I liked this one as much as the first one.
Both of these books get into detailed war scenes which isn't particularly my thing, but I loved the history of this.
The author covered the historical facts and details.
He wove that into the story of the Henry family.
The family drama was also as captivating as it was with the first one.
It felt like real life problems because it wasn't all perfect.
While I don't have a problem with any of those things, it was a little monotonous at times.
This book was my life for a good 2 months and I will never be the same.
I read this before Winds of War which is actually supposed to be first.
I would recommend reading them in order, but I do believe that War and Remembrance is slightly better.
It's the story of a family during WWII, and you grow to absolutely care about everyone, and really understand all the complexities and personality flaws of the characters.
This mass market paperback I found in a used bookstore was like 1400 pages.
The regular paperback is probably 900-100o pages.
Just arrived from Jamaica through BM.A magnificent work of fiction written by Herman Wouk with plent
Wouk je nevjerojatan pripovjedač i obje knjige su fantastične.
Način na koji su borbe opisane kod Midwaya, Guadalcanala i Leyte Gulfa bile su izvrsne i Wouk je tu jednostavno briljirao.Uživala sam u Vjetrovima rata, ali Rat i sjećanje je knjiga koja me je dublje pogodila.
Budući da mi je obitelj izgubila tri člana u Dahau ovo mi je bilo prilično teško i emotivno za čitati, pogotovo neke opise koji su bili toliko detaljni da mi se okretao želudac.
Knjigu bi preporučila svima koji vole povijesne knjige, a pogotovo razdoblje drugog svjetskog rata budući da je Wouk to majstorski odradio.
Pamela is a pathetic martyr, Rhoda is a selfish, dishonest twit, Madeleine is ignored through most of the book, and Janice turns into a slut (except at the end, when she turns into a frumpy former slut!)Reading both novels back to back, I started out reading von Roon's "excerpts," but ended up skimming them at the end, only reading Victor's notes.
I also skimmed the Leyte Gulf chapters as they were technically and historically thorough, but did not contain much plot.
It turns out that I did.Historical fiction, when written well, has a way of creating lasting memories of important events in a way that no text book can.
For anyone interested in World War II, especially the war in the Pacific, this is a great place to firm up your understanding of the chronology of events.
Especially noteworthy is the Battle of Midway sequence, which is truly a poorly appreciated event during which the future of the world turned on the actions of a very few men and some lucky circumstances.
It was also very, very clear that the author was writing in the 60s/70s, and some of Wouk's more dour elegiacs weren't nearly as prescient as he likely thought they were.
I slogged through nearly 100 hours of narrative with the hope that at least some of these characters would redeem themselves by the end, but for the most part, I was disappointed.
The narrative seemed to speed up, as if Wouk was eliding important character-driven moments and skimming through the last year of the war in the hopes of just finishing the damned thing before being buried alive by it.
The only problem is, the only sections I ever read are the excerpts from WORLD EMPIRE LOST by Armin Von Roon, the German general Pug Henry befriends before the war.
The strategic analysis and the vast battle descriptions are a lot more real than anything that happens to the characters in the books.
Lots of reviewers have mentioned that all the female characters in this book are weak, shallow, spoiled and stupid.
The difference is that Tolstoy could effortlessly conjure up the humanity of a scene -- a peasant girl watching General Kutuzov make plans on the night before the battle of Borodino -- whereas Herman Wouk has no interest in the human dimension of war.
It continues the characters and theme of Winds of War with Pug Henry as the primary character who manages to put himself in many of the critical decision meetings and actions for both the Pacific and the European theatres.
The action, details and perspectives presented regarding the Doolittle raid, Midway, Guadalcanal and the Battle of Leyte Gulf were excellent.
I have read many books on WWII but Wouk made several observations that I had not heard before, such as that the Doolittle raid pushed the Japanese into speeding up the timetable for Midway such that they did not implement their new codes until just before the battle, a crucial reason we knew they were coming.
Secondly, Wouk wrote them late, in the 1970s, and touches upon the dichotomies of American hegemony (Cold War, the middle east, genocide) which came to dominate the second half of the 20th century.
As a Jew looking at America, as an American looking at the world, and as a writer looking into himself, Wouk lays out a vast array of material to ponder, and does a wonderful job of getting out of the way.Now I must have a Jane Austen chaser.
Wouk's earlier THE WINDS OF WAR was a book I tore through, but this sequel I found a bit slower.
Still worth reading, though, especially if you've read the first.
(It's been so long since I've read either that I can't comment on whether reading WAR AND REMEMBRANCE stands on its own, whether a reader will like it on its own merits, not as a fond "remembrance." The television miniseries of both books, especially of WINDS OF WAR, are both quite good.
I'd say it was close in quality to RICH MAN, POOR MAN, still one of my favorite miniseries of all time.
Get the hell out of Italy, Natalie!
When reading “The Winds of War,” I really didn’t want it to end and with this I really did wonder if it would.Nonetheless, Wouk tells an amazing story.
I read this book travelling cattle class to Australia, a fifteen and half hour trek on one flight and a 32 hour total journey from start to destination and so I found those sections, while in no comparable, particularly compelling.I also really liked his telling of the American involvement in the war.
Almost 3 weeks to finish this epic conclusion of Book 2.
I just re-read my review on the Winds of War (Book 1) and I am repeating, fiction writing of the finest quality.
I felt I had relived the war.
What a wonderful strong fictional family chosen by this author to represent the horrors of World War 2.
If you are an avid reader, please take the time to read these 2 books and thanks to those who encouraged me to read them back to back.
I read these 2 books with almost 2000 pages in 5 weeks, that is just how good these books were.
Brilliant family saga and a great history lesson.
1 day shy of 3 months reading this and I finally finished.
This books brings the harrowing truth to the surface of WWII and the immense tragedy that the Jewish people suffered during the reign of Adolf Hitler.
It doesn't paint a rose-colored picture of what they went through, nor does it do that for those who fought in the war.
It's scary when you see the size of the book and wonder exactly how much a person has to say about a horrible war, but Wouk covers it all.
Good book overall.
If only I read much faster.
When I read books like this, I come away with a sense of the larger picture. The Henry family's stories were intertwined with 'writings' by Dr. Jastrow and also a Nazi historian, which were further commented on by Victor Henry, in the form of translator's notes. This manner of storytelling creates an epic world within the novel.Additionally, there were so many quotable sections that I finally set aside any hope of remembering them. I'll just have to read the book again. I recommend that you read it, too.
I am very glad that I read (listened to) this sequel to The Winds of War but it didn't quite pack the same punch. I suspect that part of the problem is it is soooo long; even though my attention only flagged once (when the list of people in the Midway battle was given), it was a bit wearing.Kevin Pariseau was terrific and I am happy that I chose to experience these books in audiobook format.
It took me a while to pick up War and Remembrance after I finished Winds of War. The disappointment of not having closure at the end of the first book left me feeling slightly burned.
For some reason, I was much more absorbed in War and Remembrance than I ever was during Winds of War. Perhaps it's because in this book I will finally have some closure and the war is going to finally end...
and most of all, I will finally find out what happens to Natalie!
At times, I felt like I was reading about the characters in my own life.
War and Remembrance picks up where WThe Winds of War left off.
I suppose you could read them separately, but I don't know why you'd want to.
If anything, WWar and Remembrance is even grimmer than The Winds of War. Mainly, for me, because more of the story happens in and around the concentration camps.
Wouk never falls into easy interpretations; he digs to get into the roots of things and to look at them from all angles.
For me, what was most startling about the concentration camps was the look inside the minds of the men running it.
I think these books are a must-read for anyone.
Like its predecessor, The Winds of War, this book is a must read.
A great book overall and the two book series is highly interesting.
My only negative criticism concerns the amount of time spent during the middle of the book, which covers late 1942 and early 1943.
Then, there is not a whole lot of time devoted to the last 14 months of the war -- as if Herman Wouk wanted to rush the ending.
This criticism is a tale wagging the dog, though.
The book is lengthy, but it would be a disservice not to afford coverage to the entirety of the war.
I don't know why it's taken me so long to reread this and The Winds of War. Maybe I do know, because they are so emotionally draining.
This time around, knowing so much more about WW2 now then I did then increased my interest level...there's a great deal of information here that is a lot to swallow in one gulp if it's all new to you.
And why is it when I truly love a novel I can't think of much to say, while a one star book I can blither on and on about?
GOLDEN OLDIEWAR AND REMEMBERANCE VOL.IIHerman WoukThis is to repair an oversight on my reviews. I reviewed THE WINDS OF WAR and did not include the second volume. The continued saga of the Henry family through the horrors of war and the beauty of love is enchanting. Herman Wouk is an author I will treasure forever.There was also a mini TV series of both books which was very well done, and managed to capture a lot of the heart of the novels.
Well I read The Winds of War (Book 1) (which is huge), I did enjoy it, but this one is even longer. I kept losing the thread of the story and having to re-read bits. I could persevere but it would take ages and I'm afraid my To Read pile is calling to me. No offence Mr Wouk.
"In the glare, the great and terrible light of this happening, God seems to signal that the story of the rest of us need not end, and that the new light can prove a troubled dawn.
Yet though their bones lie in the darkness of the grave, they will not have died in vain, if their remembrance can lead us from the long, long time of war to the time for peace."One of the most beautiful, thought-provoking and important books I think I have ever read.
Worth the dedication of reading over 1300 pages (over 2000 if you also include the prequel Winds of War, which is also wonderful and makes this book all the more meaningful).
