https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76032.The_Groucho_Letters
The book starts off with his infamous exchange with the legal department at Warner Brothers, who claim they own the rights to the movie title "Casablanca." Groucho responds that, perhaps, since the Marx Brothers were famous before the Warner Brothers, that perhaps they owned the rights to use "Brothers"?
We see Groucho's exchanges with many of his friends, but not much between the brothers themselves, since they were almost always together and there was no need of correspondence.
The most memorable part of the book is Groucho's legendary correspondence with the poet, T.S. Elliot.
I think this is praiseworthy but reckless, like you're saying that if the Republicans nominate a person you don't approve of, you'll vote against him even if the Democrats put up Mussolini.'The above came from a letter written in 1943 by the novelist Booth Tarkington to Groucho Marx regarding the latter's politics.
But the only political subject he mentions with any frequency is taxes (he wasn't a fan.)And what's so odd about Groucho's political disinterest is that he's writing during perhaps the most politically explosive time in history; the 1940s through the 1960s.
The Groucho Letters is a great read from a great mind, but quite often his wit serves to keep the reader at arm's length.Edited 10/6/2018
They are classic lampoons of corporate idiocy, and so bewildering to the stuffed shirts that the threatened suit never materialized.The Casablanca letters get this collection of Groucho's correspondence -- dating roughly from the mid-1930s to mid-1960s -- off with a bang.
The letters in this compilation derive both from Groucho's pen and from those of his correspondents, which included family members, friends and a broad range of show business and other acquaintances.
What wondrous wit! Almost as much fun as his films. Crisp wisecracks abound, laughter flows, gaiety prevails.
I didn't find Groucho's letter's as hilarious as some reviewers here, but he was certainly an excellent, clever writer, and there's plenty of funny stuff here.
Sometimes, my internal monologue is narrated by Groucho.If I have a witty comeback or innuendo... It is his voice I hear."Each morning when I open my eyes I say to myself: I, not events, have the power to make me happy or unhappy today. I can choose which it shall be. Yesterday is gone, tomorrow hasn't arrived yet. I have just one day, today, and I'm going to be happy in it..."-Groucho Marx
This is a great book for reading in waiting rooms or anywhere else where you just have time for snippets.
When I reached big-time vaudeville it immediately began to rot at the seams.
I remember one night leaving the theater after a triple feature with two pounds of Gold Medal butter, a carton of Pepsi-Cola and twelve chances on a soft water tank...."One thing that amazed me was a repeat reference to an anecdote I just read in the book previous to this: After the fall of the Third Reich, Rudolf Hess parachuted into the U.K. and expected to be received by Churchill as refugee royalty.
Me llevé este libro en préstamo por 2 razones: 1- soy fan de Woody Allen quien a su vez es fan de Groucho Marx, 2- Me pareció extraño encontrar este título en una ciudad y época tan alejada de la realidad y contexto histórico del personaje.
Eso sí, despues de unas ciento y tantas páginas, tuve que aplicar "lector macho" no más.
Mal ahí el editor del libro, faltó una selección más acotada.
This book was amazing. It was more than amazing. They haven't invented a word yet for what this book is. I can tell you that it kept me highly entertained while waiting at my desk for customers to call. In fact, I would rather read this book then talk to those customers. I am disconnecting my phone and starting all over again.
La correspondencia del genial Groucho Marx con su familia, amigos, productores, escritores, periodistas, admiradores y demás, aparece en una cuidada edición por parte de Anagrama, "La conjura de la risa", la cual es indispensable.Estas cartas irónicas y divertidas son una gran obra de la literatura epistolar. Olviden a Cantinflas, si de verdad quieren sonreír, y vuélvanse marxistas
Whenever I'm asked the question, "If you could have dinner with one person from all of history, who would it be?" I reply, "Groucho Marx." This book just reminded me again of why I answer that question the way I do.
Very interesting book. Loved the back and forth banter with Groucho and his friends, keeping in mind they were writing letters and that these letters took more time to get to their recipients. Not like today with our instant messaging.It was a fun read.
What can I say; the man was funny, clever and seldom unkind.
Some funny stuff here, but also some chaff. If you want the best Groucho, watch the Marx Brothers films and You Bet Your Life videos.Four stars because it's Groucho. Anyone else, it would be three.
4 1/4 stars
#21 of 120 books pledged to read during 2018
I was never a big fan of Groucho (he's ok) but concentrated doses of his 'humor' were just too much for me. I have a 50-page rule, but actually had to give up around page 30.
I took some notes for you to consider:“My sex life is now reduced to fan letters from an elderly lesbian who would like to borrow $800.”“The garbage man is here.” “Tell him we don’t want any”“Chico shook hands with me and said, ‘I would like to say goodbye to your wife,’ and I said, ‘Who wouldn’t?”“My best to you and your very sexy wife, and if she ever leaves you – I’m in the book.”“I don’t know why you don’t quit our job on Variety and become a pensioner.
The only bit that got me to laugh aloud recounted how a man was once saying grace in a low voice: Someone else at the table said that he couldn't hear what the pray-er was saying, and he responded, "I wasn't talking to you."The most memorable thing that came through the letters was how humane Groucho was.
There is nothing to protect him....I firmly believe that the first automobile company that starts stressing safety instead of speed will win far more than its share of the business." And he also commented on pollution: "I think that if a device could be installed...that would eliminate the belching of carbon monoxide...the Chrysler Corporation could create an enormous amount of good will, particularly in big cities." Amazing!!
Reading this book makes me miss the days of letter-writing.
I am amazed at the amount of letter-writing Groucho did, even if it was through dictation and secretaries.
There are letters to friends and to strangers, giving encouragement at the new release of a book they've written or an appearance they made on a t.v. show.
The book includes some letters written to him, as well, and it is interesting how it seems he inspired them to be funny in their letters, too.Here is a sample paragraph from a letter written to his friend Fred Allen in 1951:"Dear Fred:It is very difficult to correspond regularly with one who is not a woman.
This one will stay in my library.It lends itself to repeated readings.notes:7..all the brothers enjoyed having feet scratchedFalstaff: not only witty himself, but the cause of wit in others(cf S Johnson dullness quote)16..lawyer ferret-faced shyster18..my plans still in embryo21..why can't he sleep?
carry on.211..Stay down here where you belong....I Berlin216.."i beg to remain"...merchant must show inferiority...the "bow & cringe"217..riff on detritus250..momzerim270..NYer..Behrmans delightful pieces on Beerbohm287..used to be able to clear my throat by noon; these days, I'm doing good to breathe without sounding like a death rattle by 3pm
It's been often said of Groucho that he,like Falstaff, was not only witty himself, but also inspired the wit of others.
However, if you're looking for humour that will make you laugh out loud you should try other Groucho books (there are a few on this shelf) This letter collection is witty , clever and reveals a lot of Groucho and his life, but most letters were never intended for publication, so Groucho's wit is quite toned down, though it shines through the whole collection.
Some of the letters however will have you laughing , like his mythical letter to Warner Bros' lawyers or his warnings to his daughter's boyfriend.
This lucky duck just received THE GROUCHO LETTERS in the mail from her valentine and I tell you what, it's probably a good thing that Groucho has already kicked the bucket or I might mailing paper hearts to another man right now.
The words of Groucho Marx to his friends, associates, and children are some of the most charming I've ever read, and in less than an hour I've already read the first 100 pages of the book.In fact, I was already on the floor laughing within the first 5 sentences of the introduction alone: When the publishers first suggested that his letters be  put into a book, Groucho, a diffident man--well, fairly diffident--beat about no bushes.
He wired  back: YOUR LETTER RECEIVED AND PROMPTLY BURNED.
This is definitely a window into the intimate world of one of the most funny human beings that ever lived.
I wish we could read letters that the Marx Brothers wrote to each other, but as the excellent introduction states, they were rarely apart from each other long enough to write letters.
I particularly enjoyed Groucho's letters to his kids (specifically Arthur, Miriam & Melinda) and in one case, a hilarious letter to one of his daughter's boyfriends.
In the end a fun read, but probably only for the true, die-hard Groucho fans.
You'll laugh till the cows come home.
On second thought, why don't you go home and leave the cows here?
Seriously, though (and can you tell the difference?) The Groucho Letters are laugh out loud funny, so if you're embarrassed by spewing liquid through your nose in public, you'd best read this one at home.
Marxian dialog captured in short form with letters to the likes of Thurber and e.e cummings are hilarious, and enlightening in the realization that the guy with the painted moustache and enormous cigar was not only well read, but a thinker, as well.
And remember, outside of a dog a man's best friend is a book.
And inside of a dog it's too dark to read.
Loved it!!!
Donated to the Library of Congress in the mid-1960s, Groucho Marx's correspondence was first crafted into this celebration of wit and wisdom in 1967.
Reissued today with his original letters and humor intact,The Groucho Lettersexposes one of the twentieth century's most beloved comedian's private insights into show biz, politics, business, and, of course, his illustrious personal life.
Included are Marx's conversations with such noted personalities as E.
B. White, Fred Allen, Goodman Ace, Nunnally Johnson, James Thurber, Booth Tarkington, Alistair Cooke, Harry Truman, Irving Berlin, and S.
Sincerely,Groucho Marx
How often do you get personal insight into the life of a great comedian, author, actor, and correspondent by reading his own words to other people?
And Groucho Marx isn't an ordinary writer.
He's one of the great comedians of the past hundred years, and he's conquered all the media of his day—movies, television, radio, vaudeville/live performance, and the written word.
He had only a few years of schooling, but he was damned smart, and became well-read.
Wouldn't those gatherings have been different if Groucho had been there to trade one-liners with Benchley, Dorothy Parker, and George S.
Kaufman?Read this book!
I'd kill to be as witty as Groucho Marx and his friends, and I thought that since I was a kid, when I saw 'Duck Soup' for the first time.
I have spent my life with this mustached chatterbox as a hero.
But I never read through his letters for reasons I cannot explain.
Having done so, I realize it is downright impossible to get on Groucho's level.
He was a complex twist of gallows humor and philosophy and his friends were very much up to the task of meeting him letter for letter.
I end up re-reading this every few years and always enjoy it immensely.
Groucho's sometimes absurd, sometimes dry humor is even more hilarious in the "natural" setting of his conversational letters than in the Marx Brothers' sometimes overly scripted movies.
His range of correspondents is wide - from close friends and family members to studio heads and lawyers, and T.S. Eliot.
(My favorite moment may be when Groucho and his wife have dinner with the Eliots in London.
Groucho has re-read Death In The Cathedral to prepare for a serious literary discussion.
Eliot, of course, just wants to talk about his favorite gags from A Night At The Opera ...)
Groucho Marx was a very funny man who wrote amusing letters to his friends and others. Some of these were collected in this book, published in 1965. At times, reading this book was like reading the script from a Marx Brothers movie. Included in this book is a touching exchange of letters between Groucho and T.S. Eliot, who finally met in England shortly before Eliot passed away. One very interesting letter was a note from Groucho congratulating his friend Arthur Murray (of dancing fame) on the marriage of his daughter to a young doctor named Heimlich. Yes, that Dr. Heimlich.
