https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7036.The_Kalahari_Typing_School_for_Men
Alexander McCall Smith - image from famousauthors.org Guilt is the subject here.
Mma Makutsi acquires a beau, Mister Seleliping.
The detective agency gains competition in the form of a male-run enterprise run by a very pompous individual.
Jill Scott as Precious Ramotswe - Image from BBCThis is the usual comfortable tale told in the usual manner.
The cast of characters has come to seem familial.
Will Precious ever get married to Maketoni?Anika Noni Rose as Grace Makutsi - image from HBOIf you are new to the series.
It is a true shame that the series was killed after only six episodes.
Those shows are precious indeed..
You don't read Mma Ramotswe novels for the action or even for the mysteries.
You read them for the gentle rhythm of the narration, the wise philosophy of the characters.
Mr Matekoni is slowly coming out of depression and finds his motor repair shop in the good hands of Mma Makutsi who shares her time between the detective agency and the auto repair shop.
The joy of these novels is the intimate view of how the characters live, their values, how they set goals for themselves and go after them.
I like the philosophy, the values McCall Smith projects thru his characters in this simple, yet very nourishing for the soul, series.
Reading a book in the No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency series is like catching up with old friends.
Mma Ramotswe is still proud to be a traditionally-built woman living in the greatest country in Africa, if not the world.
Then there are the mysteries, which are almost besides the point, but of course Mma Ramotswe continues to use savvy and good judgment, showing mercy whenever applicable.
Even so, I found this book an improvement over the last in the series.
These books continue to be gentle, friendly, white noise for me, and I'll keep reading.
These books drive me crazy, but instead of talking about what I don't like about them, I want to say what I do like.
He describes a desert in way that makes me want to vacation there.The second is that I can appreciate a book that isn't in a hurry, I read a lot of action/adventure books, so I like the way this book takes its time and concentrates on human interaction, but still respects the fact that there is a plot to developed.
There are many books in this series, so I'll discuss what I don't like, next time.
While these issues might not seem like much and pretty mundane at that, what makes the book beautiful is the way in which the author has blended African and especially Botswanan culture and small niceties in this book.
While reading this book, or for that matter any book in this series, I have a slight smile on my face; one that depicts my happiness at reading such a beautiful prose.Africa and its culture comes to life under the gentle touch of the author and this is extremely difficult, especially when you are writing a cozy mystery.
The main draw here is the cast of well drawn, well written, very memorable and on the whole very endearing (if occasionally frustrating) characters - Precious Ramostwe, Grace Makutsi, J.L.B. Matekoni et al and the interplay of their lives - the detective work and cases here become increasingly an incidental backdrop.The 'No.1 Ladies Detective Agency' stories and characters certainly have an air of authenticity and believability (although obviously contrived and significantly exaggerated for comic effect) and interestingly McCall Smith did spend some time living and working in Botswana.The first few books in the series are undoubtedly the strongest, funniest, most entertaining and compelling.
The audio performance by Lisette Lecat is just perfect, in every way, and since I listen more than read, I enjoy her performance as much as the words.
I'm so glad this series stands up well to rereads, as I love them all so much.
This is a wonderful series I thoroughly enjoy reading.
I want to once again thank Mr. Alexander McCall Smith for sharing his wisdom, sense of humor, kindness and humanity, as well as his love for Botswana with the world.
I love this series so much.
Nothing earthshaking going on, but it's about people who try to do the best they can all the time to help one another.
Just as with all the other books in the Ladies No. 1 Detective Agency series, this one evokes a clear sense of place and characters.
The author seems to feel a great deal of affection for his characters even when they make unwise choices.
These books are fresh, unpredictable, and plain ol' addictive.
I actually read this one but have listened to the previous ones in the series on audio CD.
I'd recommend listening to at least one title in this series to hear the cadence of the names and places.
In this book we see Mma Makutsi come into her own with her new business venture and rise unscathed from a (view spoiler)[ romance with a man whom she didn't know was married but was being investigated by Mma Ramotswe on suspicion of cheating, under instruction from his wife.
There is some lovely humour in these parts (view spoiler)[ but he doesn't have the stamina or intelligence of our favourite ladies so soon Mma Ramotswe and Mma Makutsi are rid of the competition.
The novel focuses a great amount on the development of some characters, and leaves others "out to dry", and ultimately strays away from the things that made books 1 and 2 of the series so good: the cases, the interactions, and the values of the Botswana people.
That is not to say that this book does not have any detective cases, but I find the novels have shifted from their original focus.
However, one thing that I did like about this book is the increased role and development of Mma Makutsi.
She is a great characters, and until book 3, Mma Makutsi existed in the shadows.
Yay for this series! I'm glad there are so many. It actually inspired me to read more about Botswana. Here is a nugget from this book:"People's lives were delicate; you cannot interfere with them without running the risk of changing them profoundly. A chance remark, a careless involvement, may make the difference between a life of happiness and one of sorrow." pg 164
And upon reading these admittedly addicting trashy novels, I have no reason to picture the heat and damp and mosquitos with which I know Louisiana must be afflicted, because the author does nothing to help me imagine the setting.Nothing can be further from the writing of Alexander McCall Smith, author of the No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency series, of which The Kalahari Typing School for Men is the first book I've read.
When I read the words on Mr. Smith's pages, I hear the measured lilt of a Botswana accent, and his characters have such rich inner lives that I am able to nod with satisfaction that each is behaving according to his own character.
But mostly I love the lifestyle of the main character.
I love her simplicity.
I love that they live in a non-materialistic world so that the focus is truly on important things.
I love the kindness she shows to everyone.
I love the directness and honesty of almost all the characters.
I love the way they greet each other as family and welcome new people into their lives.
I love their acceptance of each other and their forgiveness.
I love the way she follows her intuition and logic together.
I love spending time with his characters.
Still charming though not enough investigating, which was missing for me.
Матекони ще се ожени за маа Прешъс Рамотсве (която се гордее с традиционното си телосложение, живееща в най-великата страна в Африка, ако не и в целия свят), държа да благодаря на Цветанка Севдина, че ми препоръча този автор (е, тръгнах от други книги, но ще стигна и до португалските неправилни глаголи и особеностите на саламовидните кучета в компанията на Фон Игелфелд, неминуемо е).
Коментарите за тях няма да са достатъчни, за да се предаде цялостното удоволствие от тях и за това спирам до тук.Любим цитат (от "Морал за красиви момичета"):"Така или иначе, тя беше дама с традиционно телосложение и нямаше нужда да се тревожи за размера дрехи, който носи, като онези нещастни, невротизирани хора, които вечно се гледат в огледалото и мислят, че са твърде дебели.
Mma Ramotswe is looking at some photographs with a friend, and she sees a man in one of them, smiling, and asks who it is.
Her friend says he is a nice man who stays with them sometimes, and writes books.
What I love about these books is that it isn't just some long murder mystery, it's a series of smaller mysteries, human mysteries: can you find this person for me, do you know where my husband is going at night?
There is also the day-to-day drama of their lives: Mma Ramotswe, her fiance, the foster children, their friends.
This series is my current comfort-read. A lovely world to escape into for late-night reading, beautifully written, sensitively told. Really life-enhancing. Wonderful.
Another solid effort in the No. 1 Ladies Detective Series, as these books continue to delve into its characters and manages to use this as a way to have them involved in the new cases.
While the books are very delightful and easy to read, I feel that the author needs to get these ladies involved in much more serious and complicated cases.
So far, most of the cases are cute and involve a lot of moral detecting, but the time has come for Mma. Ramotswe and Mma. Makutsi to get into some meatier cases, especially since Book 4 introduced a new Detective Agency to the town.
A ten year old could see the competition isn’t going to be that stiff, but the lack of subtlety is one of the most delightful qualities of these books, partly because it reminds me that most people really aren’t that adept at hiding unpleasant traits, and partly because it gives Mma Ramatswe material for her commentaries on men.
Mma Ramatswe doesn’t have murders to solve, but she does have to deal with other crimes and failings that must be put right, and this she does with compassion and principles.
Still loving the series!
ספר מעולה, משעשע וזורם. הפילוסופיה המעניינת של מא ראמווצאה, התרבות האפריקאית היפהפיה שלה והכתיבה השנונה של אלכסנדר מקקול סמית הופכים את הספר הזה לממתק אמיתי. מומלץ בחום.
The brusk owner Cephas Buthelezi, who claims to be ex-CID, is polite to Mma Precious Ramotswe, owner of No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency when she comes to visit her new competition, but he is rude to Mma Makutsi, her partner and assistant manager.
It is worrisome that a man of such credentials has opened a detective business in the small town in Botswana, a country of 2 million people.
Besides being Mma Ramotswe's assistant and also Matekobi's assistant in the garage, she opens a typing school for men.
The author is masterful at conveying a sense of charm without allow it to feel "precious" (no pun intended with regard to the lead character).
The books feel light and airy when it comes to the "action," and yet have a depth and subtlety that is easy to overlook but feeds the literary soul.
This one even had a "twist" that completely caught me off-guard and had me turning the pages with anxiety as to how things would turn out for the characters.
If you haven't yet, give this series a try--and check out the HBO series, which is wonderful and completely faithful to the books (available on Netflix).
Rather they follow Mma Ramotswe and those around her through their daily lives - it's almost besides-the-point that the business she runs is a detective agency.
The stories are suffused with McCall-Smith's obvious sincere love of Africa (where he grew up), and the reader feels that a genuine window has opened up into the lives and mindsets of ordinary Africans.
I don't agree with many aspects of Precious Ramotswe's view on the world, and I probably wouldn't get along with her in real life - but these books made me feel like I might understand people like her more than before.However...
The African dialogue and setting also offers a touch of the exotic, with Botswana playing a role as a country of "integrity and generosity in both the simple and the big things".Alexander McCall Smith is a master at interweaving plot development with inner monologue.
These books are not your standard detective novels.
Fundamentally, the simple stories are more about character development and promoting a simple morality."In spite of everything, in spite of all the change, with all the confusion and uncertainty which it brought; in spite of the casual disregard with which people were increasingly treating one another these days, there were people who spoke to others with the proper courtesy, who treated others, whom they did not know, in the way which was proper according to the standards of the old Botswana morality.
Πολλοί χαρακτηρίζουν τα βιβλία της σειράς αυτής ως chicken soup for the soul, ή βάλσαμο για τη ψυχή, κι έχουν απόλυτο δίκιο. Οι χαλαροί, νωθροί ρυθμοί της αφήγησης, η απλοϊκή (σχεδόν παιδική) γλώσσα κι οι σοφές συμβουλές της καλόκαρδης κυρίας Ραμότσουε πάντα καταφέρνουν να μου μεταδώσουν μια αίσθηση ηρεμίας κι αισιοδοξίας. Αν περνάτε δύσκολες ώρες, μια επίσκεψη στην βεράντα της Πρέσιους Ραμότσουε για να φιλοσοφήσετε τη ζωή πίνοντας τσάι από βότανα της ερήμου κι αγναντεύοντας τον ουρανό της Μποτσουάνα, σίγουρα θα σας φτιάξει τη διάθεση.
This was my first time reading an Alexander McCall Smith novel, on recommendation from my persistent mother. I actually enjoyed it quite a bit. He is a champion at writing women, honestly, all the women in this novel were astounding and I loved them all so much. A wonderful little cute story with interesting characters, a very simple and easy but enjoyable read. I will definitely pursue more of his novels.
I'm really stretching the 3 stars here. This book #4 just didn't sit right with me. The charm and cozy feeling was not there. There were several stories going on and they were all really tough subject matters. And Mma Ramotswe seemed to have become quite the man-hater, well except for her fiance. 2.5 stars
This is a soothing, gentle read, like a nice cup of tea. The characters are endearing, and the setting of Botswana is charming. Wisdom and humor abound. The author's writing style just lulls me. If you want to relax, this is the book for you.
The assignments for the detective agency and the side stories takes on even more serious subject matters in the fourth book in the series. This is not a bad thing and the narrative is still a treat; thoughtful, humorous and engaging.
