https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1707104.Lonesome_Road
However, a mutual acquaintance (a link to a previous case of Miss Silver’s) urges her to seek out Miss Silver’s help.This is the first time that Miss Silver has appeared so early in the story, and it’s a good device for this particular story.
Of course, this is just how she does her work but it also helps the reader keep the family sorted out.The Miss Silver series just keeps getting stronger as time goes on.
However, underlying it all there is also strength and positive traits to all of the characters in the book.
Lonesome Road (Miss Silver,#3) by Patricia Wentworth.I loved this mystery.
Miss Silver, Rachel Traherne-the pace of the developing characters and their relationships with each other.
She finally makes the decision to meet with Miss Silvers to discuss her dilemma.Miss Silvers is a retired governess who was recommended to Rachel by a trusted acquaintance.
The sequence of events once relayed to Miss Silvers cause a meeting of the minds that more than one attempt has been made on Rachel's life.
The facts on there before them both and Miss Silvers proceeds to take the necessary steps to protect her latest client.Highly recommended.
Much more Golden Age in that The Ladies are Ever So Ladylike and one silly chit of a slip of a girl gets all twisted up and confused by A Big Bad Man. Also irritating is the fact that it takes a man to sort out Miss Rachel Treherne, a quite redoubtable party until it comes to her ghastly family and their disgusting behavior.Well, autres temps autres moeurs, don't you know, and in the end the right couples are coupled with the Big Baddie most satisfactorily served a comeuppance.
The one thing I truly find lacking is Miss Silver who seems to me, at least at this point, to be one of the blandest amateur detective characters ever developed.
Not really....So I kind of like these, other than this old Miss Silver character and I'm hoping as this series develops further, (It's quite complete actually, just speaking from my perspective, because I'm reading the series in order.) that the character of Miss Silver will eventually develop into a person, rather than simply a little old lady in the background making observations so that we can follow along.
In terms of narrative, this is one of the best Miss Silvers I've read so far.
Rather than the houseparty, we have a house that has a continual flow of family and friends and not-so-friends wandering in and out, mostly sponging or hoping to sponge on the bounty of Miss Treherne, a single woman who inherited her father's...charity?
We aren't told more about the "houses" in the "charity" her father supposedly left her to manage, but then her entire life is a charity toward the undeserving.This is one of the "change your will and you can stay alive" cosies.
There was an interchange of courtesies reminding Rachel of an old lady she had known as a child who was wont to say with an approving nod of the head "Compliments pass when gentlefolk meet." - Lonesome RoadThis is the type of sentiment I love reading. It makes me smile.(view spoiler)[ The ending killed me though. I did not believe it AT ALL! (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
This is entertaining reading, but a lot of the situation boils down to "bizarre terms of a will that should have been dropped long ago" and "if only Caroline would have conversations with people".
It's always soothing to hear miss silver's cough lol and her clicking
this book introduced me to Miss Silver, an "older" genteel retired governess who now acts as a private investigator in pre-WWII London. This is not the beginning of the series, which was written in 1929; this book is from 1939, but still, it is a refreshing change from so many mystery books published today, with no sex, no foul language, just an intelligent woman who uses her people skills to help others in a bind. can't wait to read some more in this series!
Almost there and a very low 4. She's got the pacing and Miss Silver is far more developed but she's not quite nailed her own way of creating characters yet - what lets it down are that there are a few too many of them and to properly develop them all would slow the plot right down. I think the original intention, from the introduction of the characters, was to have a few of them disappear off to town for a lot of the book, but then couln't work out how to do it without making it seem forced.
A pretty good mystery. I read quite a few Miss Silver mysteries a very long time ago but although the titles sound familiar, I have forgotten everything about them except the (too?) recurrent clicking of Miss Silver's needles and her clearing her throat. This Lonesome Road was pretty good in a traditional way and I will try and find some more Patricia Wentworth's novels.
For fans of Miss Marple. I found it rather pedestrian and couldn't relate to the characters, though as a period piece it has its charms.
Lonesome Road (Miss Silver #3), Patricia Wentworth
Wentworth is one of my for all time favorites. She tells such a great story. I love Miss Silver. Wentworth doesn't waste a word but is still able to draw such great visuals of her scenes and the characters.
You can’t get anything past Miss Silver.In this book, Miss Silver is drawn into the complexities and petty dysfunction of the family of Rachel Traherne, a wealthy heiress.
Although she wishes to be discreet and caring, Rachel finally turns to Miss Silver for help.This book was creepier than the first two, with quite a frightening ending, involving fog and a well that has never been properly covered over.
Patricia Wentworth’s depictions of the numerous greedy and boring family members are entertaining and harsh at the same time, and I found it satisfying to watch Rachel’s progress as she gradually pulls away from the relationships that really don’t work.
I'm really getting into the Patricia Wentworth mysteries with this story that finally takes off with Miss Silver as a delightful, kind and clever "private inquiry agent".
At first, the array of characters takes a bit of concentration to remember who is who and how they fit into relationships with each other, but it's much like meeting a room full of people that requires you to have one-on-one time with each to get to know them.
This is exactly what Miss Silver does, and she excels in understanding people through what they do and what they say.
The third thing is that, although Maud Silver has a knack for getting people to talk with her, she has an honest interest in people.
In this story Miss Maud Silver becomes more involved in the solving of the tale. Because of the dying wish of her rich father Rachel Treherne must re-write her will every year. So who is trying to kill her. All her family are suspects as most or all are always there at the attempts. When Miss Silver arrives at Miss Treherne's home she must solve the mystery before Rachel is killed. So finally it seems that Miss Maud Silver becomes more involved in the story. Hoping that we will see more of her character as the series continues.An interesting tale.
Another satisfying Miss Silver mystery. This one involves wealthy heiress, Rachel Treherne. Miss Silver is consulted and is an integral part of the story as attempts on Rachel’s life continue.
The third Miss Silver and in this one she appears to be more present as a detective than in the first two books in the series. Miss Silver gets a woman to invite her to her country house so that she can investigate the woman's fears that a member of her family is trying to kill her. Miss Silver insinuates herself into the group as a doddering, retired governess and picks up much useful information. Like Miss Marple, but Maud Silver actually leaves her house and detects up a storm.
Typical rich English countryside mansion with multiple characters that could be responsible for the mystery.
Another GemPatricia Wentworth does it again! This book is another gem of a mystery. Ms. Wentworth leads her readers to the well, but they thirst for a conclusion.

Rachel Treherne is surrounded by loving family, loyal servants and attentive friends. A series of incidents, however, cause Rachel to wonder whether someone near and dear to her is trying to kill her. After all, there's a great deal of money at stake.Rather than involve the police, Rachel hires Miss Silver to determine whether her concerns are justified. The retired governess, now sleuth, must sort through the ugliness in human hearts to identify the culprit and stave off disaster.
These are fun cozy mysteries set in 1930s England. Miss Silver, a lmild little old lady who knits as she interviews her distressed clients and the various suspects, sometimes plays a major role, sometimes a cameo. If you like reading about this era, if you are a Nick and Nora fan or liked Downton Abbey, these are an enjoyable way to pass time.
Heiress becomes a target in the family--a plot in which not everyone agrees that "It's really rather nice to feel that there are some things money won't buy." Miss Silver and her endless knitting unravel the secrets in a family driven by "who inherits," and the course of young love runs a lonesome road in the old family country of secrets.
So three books into the series, I am still not convinced these are exactly detective novels, because Miss Silver mostly observes events as they transpire, but I always enjoy a nice, compact English country house novel. A tad too much reliance on serendipity, but at least some of the characters were nice and vivid, and the content was all unobjectionable.
Enjoyable mystery. Miss Silver readily disregards red herrings which we think we have cleverly spotted and comes to mre terrifying conclusion than I expected. This is not quite Agatha Christie but is set in the same period and is still satisfying if you like that sort of thing.
If you are going to rewrite your will every year, don't announce when you are going to do it and don't let the terms of the previous will be made public. I would think that this is common sense, but apparently not.
An entertaining early Miss Silver mystery. Rachel Treherne manages her late father's fortune, including many charity interests. Although she changes her will frequently, someone is trying to kill her. Miss Silver is hired to unravel the situation.
Good old fashioned crime story with a Miss Marple character. Obviously dated attitudes as written in 1939 so fainting females and heroic strong men or weak evil ones. Within that context a hearty read.
