https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11761.Underworld
this book was recommended to me by an ex (who also recommended zuleika dobson and the joke, so he had a good track record until then) who knew how much i liked infinite jest so he thought i would like this one.
but i didn't, so it must be something else i'm drawn to in the wallace.i remember i was reading this at the airport where i was going to meet him, like a dutiful girlfriend, and just having my jaw drop at the first part.
it was the beginning of the end.look - i really liked white noise, but this i just felt to be a bloated, wooden, oddly-phrased book whose language didn't charm me, but made me unhappy.
I love reading James Wood on the novel.
Underworld for Wood was gratuitously obsessed with paranoia as if this was a concern peculiar to only Delillo.
DeLillo is fascinated by the ghost paths of connections and the panoramic grids they form; the secret lives of objects and the far reaching stories they tell.He wanted an object that would provide a surreptitious link to fifty years of American history and chose the baseball that won the 1951 World Series, during which – here’s one of the hyperlinks - the Russians tested their first atomic bomb.
DeLillo is like a soothsayer of the technological consumerist age.
i wanted to punch him in the face and shake him, shouting, "JUST GET TO THE FUCKING PLOT, YOU SELF-LOVING PIECE OF SHIT." (from Ethan)and"I'll be honest and say that I don't remember much about this book other than an awful lot of baseball.
it wasn't a very quick read, and i got bored.the third is now Don DeLillo's Underworld, supposedly one of the greatest masterpieces of 20th century literature.i have no shame in saying that i stopped reading this bullshit after 550 pages.
and i mean that in both senses of the phrase--the ending sucked, and i was considerably less interested by the time the book ended than when i started.
i wanted to punch him in the face and shake him, shouting, "JUST GET TO THE FUCKING PLOT, YOU SELF-LOVING PIECE OF SHIT."there's nothing wrong with elegant, poetic writing, even in novel form.
People married, were born, and died in the time it took me to read this book. A kid sitting next to me on a plane commented "that's the fattest book I've ever seen. What's it about?" I told him "I have no idea--I'm only 580 pages into it." Having finished I still don't know what it was about but reading it was an extraordinary experience. The novella that introduces the book is perfect and complete in itself. What follows is discursive and ephemeral like some new kind of music. Reading it was like learning how to listen.
Don DeLillo nos ha obsequiado un magnum opus que recorre cincuenta años de historia, manipulando cuerpos solitarios con un temor inquebrantable hacia la muerte y la falta de respuestas, que va a hacer del lector un dolido testigo de lo que no quiere ver; todo esto a partir de un juego narrativo en el que el autor nos presenta las consecuencias de la historia y luego sus causas, una aproximación de 900 páginas a aquello que intenta darle una solución a la pregunta: ¿Cuándo fue el momento en que nos equivocamos?Todo libro tiene su inicio, sin importar lo mucho que juegue con la linealidad.
(Also, it must be like The Mousetrap: readers who find out are sworn not to reveal it).- The point is that life feels this way if you're a certain kind of person, i.e. interesting in places but ultimately pretty meaningless.- The book just isn't very good.Now that I write it down, I do feel vaguely interested in discovering which of the above guesses is closest to the truth.
I'm on page 387 of Underworld.
Help me decide if I should finish.
Yeah you.
Here's a few things I think are better than Underworld:1.
The song Born in the USA by Springsteen2.
The blonds on the Danish women's Olympic curling team3.
Opening a third beer4.
Any 5 pages of War and Peace6.
Picking my teams for the NCAA basketball tournament9.
The shape of AlaskaHere's a few things I think are worse than Underworld:1.
The shape of Colorado6.
'Carnies'--small hands, smell like cabbage7.
When a fucking crowbar gauges out my eye and falls with it's full weight on a single small toe
Yet his father, a drunk, takes the ball out of his room as Cotter sleeps and sells it for $32.45.Front page of New York Times on October 4, 1951The remainder of the book follows a very nonlinear narrative, mostly about a guy named Nick Shay who is an executive VP at a waste disposal company.
I felt like this was one of those books where you kind of start getting drunk on the words and then you begin to think everything is super deep and has about 100 meanings and everything is interconnected. Then you start reading every sentence about 5 times and get lost in a daydream about how everything is related to waste, nuclear energy, more waste, and nuns. When you finish the book you feel like you've gone on a journey but it's hard to talk about it and your not really sure exactly what happened.
I was a bit scared of it for years, but after having successfully tackled two other post-modern über-works Infinite Jest and Gravity's Rainbow, I decidedly it was time (admittedly, I have not been able to bring myself to attempt The Recognitions by Gaddis yet).
I enjoyed the writing style and loved the story.
Honestly, I prefer Pynchon - particularly Mason&Dixon and Against the Day - to DeLillo but of his work, this one was for me the most fun.Since originally writing this review, I have trudged through (and reviewed on GR) The Recognitions and have to say that I preferred Underworld, GR, AtD, M&D, and IJ.
No matter how we might try to reprocess, recast,or ignore our history/memory, our past accumulates, and the weight of our mental and personal garbage is heavy.An interesting twist that DeLillo works into Underworld, as I realized during a recent discussion with a friend, is that one of the characters, the painter Klara Sax, is able to find a sort of redemption.
Yet the reader sees redemption at the beginning of the book, not the end – the book works backwards towards the trash and detritus of her past, leaving Klara, rather, at an seemingly insurmountable (although we, as readers, know better) low point.One of the greatest successes of the book is the fluidity with which it moves between personal and cultural memories.
Underworld is, to use a quote from Roberto Bolaño's 2666 to illustrate my take on this DeLillo novel, one of "the great, imperfect, torrential works, books that blaze a path into the unknown."Those who will tell you that White Noise is DeLillo's best, or some other short, compact, precise DeLillo work, "want to watch the great masters spar, but they have no interest in real combat, when the great masters struggle against that something, that something that terrifies us all, that something that cows us and spurs us on, amid blood and mortal wounds and stench." THAT is what DeLillo does here.
Mentre l'incompletezza si rivela in un legame d'amore, un evento misterioso e traumatico innesca una narrazione alla rovescia, un percorso a ritroso nel tempo segnato da complessità e interconnessione, che si concretizza in una cosmologia storica del contemporaneo.
La narrazione è come lo specchio di un'esistenza che non riesce più a prendere la realtà, ad avvicinarla e a narrarne la forma, il soggetto si sviluppa quindi nella scrittura come spazio del possibile, luogo della vera vita, mosaico che scava dentro le cose per restituirci noi stessi, composizione della rimozione, ma anche coscienza dell'irreale, dell'indicibile e del suo orrore.
La molteplicità di prospettive, voci e sensazioni, si frantuma nel ricordo dell’era post-atomica, mentre l'incarnazione dell'innocenza oppone la nudità del trascendente alla forza della paura e della distruzione.
With every DeLillo novel I read, I realize that Underworld is the pinnacle of the man's artistry.
DeLillo writes about poverty, consumerism, mass media, fear of death, conspiracies, strained sexual relationships, crowd psychology, history, language, and everything else he'd done before, but here he weaves it all together into a dense and beautiful tapestry.
Besides, who wants to read authors that sit around in their own little bubbles all day?Underworld is a big, bold, astonishing and challenging work, one that asks a lot from you and rewards the patient reader.
I’m merely registering a score.It’s been years since I last picked up a DeLillo.
There are Underworld detractors on gr who I’m almost certain should have known better.
So I set out to do that thing which I rarely need to bother doing myself, Making up my own mind about a gargantuan postmodern tome.
During most of my reading of Underworld I felt it pulled in two directions, in the directions of two other novels; Women and Men and Infinite Jest.
And I thought both of those novels did what they did better than how Underworld did it.
It is not necessarily flawed for a writer to construct their fictional milieus in such a manner, but I felt it to be so for much of Underworld: while it made scant difference to the brilliance of certain set-pieces, such as the series of monologues from a fictionalized Lenny Bruce in the later-stages of the novel, it reduced Nick Shay to a mere performer, one whose childhood mysteries stand revealed as more of a joke than an abrasion; the highway killer to a caricature; and tempered the narrative with tacked-on characters like Shay's wife and her improbable lover.The writing can be stunning, though: the opening prologue, a masterly mural of the infamous Shot Heard Around the World—the walk-off home run hit by the New York Giants' Bobby Thomson off the Brooklyn Dodger's Ralph Branca in 1951, a shot which clinched the National League pennant for the Giants and capped a dramatic clash between two Empire State titans—starts things rolling with authority.
Two, Heft: just like in movies, critics assume size equals importance, and thus the longer it takes to get through something, the more that something must have to say.
But there's a difference between challenging the reader and flexing your cleverness, and you can guess which one I think DeLillo does here.
Ultimately, I don't think DeLillo knew what his story was about and tried to compenstate by adding more and more pages.
And then they run back to James Patterson or Nicholas Sparks or some shit like that and we're all a little poorer in the end.
No doubt Delillo could have cut some stuff and I wouldn't have thought, "Hmm, I still don't quite get cold-war America," but I have no complaints about the length as it is.The structure of the book is really cool, and saying it's "shaped like a mushroom cloud" is clever but doesn't explain why anyone might want to actually try reading this.
I'm talking about Jackie Gleason vomiting on Frank Sinatra's shoes, Hoover's foreboding at the falling Life magazine pages and The Triumph of Death, Cotter Martin's duel over the baseball-in-question with the spectacularly and insidiously evil Bill Waterson, the unexpectedly low attendance of the game.Then it jumps to the 1990's, with Nick Shay as a middle aged and nearly-complete human being.
E magari capire molto di più da quello, che dalla dichiarazione IRPEF dei cittadini.Perché se è pur vero che Schmitt nel suo “Monsieur Ibrahim e i fiori del Corano” (di cui io non ho letto il libro, ma ho visto almeno una decina di volte il film, occhio alla colonna sonora che è portentosa), dice che: «Quando vuoi sapere se il posto dove ti trovi é ricco o povero, guarda la spazzatura.
Una carrellata di eventi che non segue apparentemente un filo logico e dove l'ago del tempo scorre su diverse direttrici.Nel 1951, più o meno all'inizio della guerra fredda, ebbe luogo la partita di baseball Dodgers contro Giants con cui inizia il romanzo; contemporaneamente gli americani fecero esplodere un ordigno nucleare, come test, a fini militari.
La palla lanciata da Thomson, filo conduttore di eventi, continua a ricordare il momento leggendario in cui tutti erano uniti.Una palla che man mano che il tempo procede testimonia la decadenza dell'America (e perché no, del mondo intero): la guerra, le scorie radioattive, la società dei consumi, il danaro, gli interessi, la politica.
By creating intentional gaps in the text, Delillo (I reasoned) is imprinting the themes of his novel in the book's physical structure, mirroring the uncertainty of the lineage of the home run baseball that is the focus of the plot.
I was far more excited about the potential implications of the misprint than I had been about the actual story.
While the beginning and (to a lesser extent) the ending are powerful, the thread that links the intervening pages is incredibly thin, and so while Underworld explores many potentially interesting themes, it does so in a loose, haphazard and meandering fashion.
For example, you might appreciate an author who describes warm-up pitches that “crack into the catcher’s mitt, a series of reports that carry a comet’s tail of secondary sound.” I started out afraid that DeLillo’s style would venture into some sort of overwrought, near rococo extreme, but the language actually kinda grew on me (which, for an 800+ page book is a good thing).After the game, the story moves ahead 40 years where we learn about Nick Shay, a boyhood Dodgers fan who at that point owned the famous home run ball.
Definitely not four, probably not exactly five. But sometimes five; fleeting moments, flickers, of five. The structure of Underworld was fantastic. It was an excavation novel. It was an extraction. It was a slow descent, a regression. I definitely have a pro-Delillo bias, but still think this novel (for me) fits among his best and strongest works. It was worth the time, the work, the emotional cost. Not Dostoevesky, but Underworld will be read, examined, analyzed throughout the next century while much that was written in the later-half of the 20th century is pulped, processed, and turned into IKEA furniture.
Sopra le cime degli alberi vide il residuo della scia di condensazione di un jet, il vapore che stava scomparendo, incominciava a disperdersi e a sfrangiarsi, e naturalmente pensò al deserto, alla gittata e alla traiettoria delle armi, e a come, nel cielo, le tracce di condensazione fossero l'unico segno di attività umana, per quel che era dato di vedere a lui, a un ragazzo di città venuto a campeggiare nel territorio selvaggio, portandosi dietro ansie e travagli dello spirito, e le esplosioni del muro del suono schiaffeggiarono il cielo mentre il vapore formava una scia di ghiaccio nella volta celeste.Sepoltura spaziale.
Na segunda parte DeLillo desenvolve uma profunda análise crítica por meio de uma fragmentação articulada, tipicamente pós-moderna, na qual envolve acontecimentos mais e menos conhecidos da história dos EUA, para dar forma ao imaginário coletivo americano.Naturalmente a primeira parte deveria ser a mais maçuda e secante, contudo não o é, porque a escrita é fantástica, e tudo o que nos vai apresentando é sorvido por nós avidamente.
- 44Ross wants to believe a thing like this keeps us safe in some undetermined way.
This is the thing that will pulse in his brain come old age and double vision and dizzy spells … -60I wanted her to know I got out of there, whatever crazy mistakes I’d made - I’d come out OK.
-73I lived responsibly in the real … history was not a matter of missing minutes on the tape.
She needed to feel that thing begin to happen, … that newness, a flashing of life behind the eyes.
This is the only way in the world you can escape the things that made you.
That content is ambiguous, in a good way: DeLillo asks us to consider the relationship between nostalgia (for, e.g., baseball) and history (i.e., things that will matter to mentally sound people who didn't live through them).
Consider that the most memorable scene in the book, according to the internet I read, is when the priest tells Nick 'Boring' Shay that he's tired of educating teenagers in "abstract ideas" and would be better off educating them as to the names of particular concrete things like, e.g., the names of shoe-parts, which he then proceeds to name for a few pages.
“Underworld” was published when I was in college, a part time bookseller who touched so many books in the course of a day, shelving new fiction, shelving classics, shelving How-To manuals and graphic novels and dictionaries.
Step One: Begin reading “Underworld,” including it’s massive prologue.
Step Two: Continue reading into the introduction of garbage administrator Nick Shay, his suspicions about his wife’s infidelity, his handful of big-drinking work friends, a reconnection with the artist Klara Sax he banged when he was a teenager.
Step Five: Retain curiosity about the book, read others by Don Delillo.
Difficile non perdermi in esagitati commenti a freddo, dopo aver terminato Underworld, che sicuramente si annovera tra le esperienze di lettura più uniche e indimenticabili da me intraprese.È la storia, o più correttamente, una rivisitazione della storia dell'America del dopoguerra, attuata grazie al geniale pretesto della palla da baseball – il singolare filo conduttore, che insieme a numerosi altri collegamenti, dà vita a un gioco di incastri che nella loro genialità e accortezza spiazzano il lettore dall'incipit all'epilogo.E mi piaceva che la storia qui non circolasse a piede libero.
