https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1836659.Tomorrow_the_Stars
Preface (Tomorrow, the Stars) • (1952) • essay by Robert A.
M. KornbluthThe Report on the Barnhouse Effect • (1950) • short story by Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.The Tourist Trade • (1951) • short story by Wilson Tucker Rainmaker • (1949) • short story by John ReeseAbsalom • (1946) • short story by Henry Kuttner and C.
L. MooreThe Monster • (1951) • short story by Lester del ReyJay Score • [Jay Score / Marathon • 1] • (1941) • short story by Eric Frank RussellBetelgeuse Bridge • (1951) • short story by William TennSurvival Ship • (1951) • short story by Judith MerrilKeyhole • (1951) • short story by Murray LeinsterMisbegotten Missionary • (1950) • short story by Isaac Asimov The Sack • (1950) • short story by William MorrisonPoor Superman • (1951) • novelette by Fritz Leiber
Another in a long line of mixed bag science fiction short story anthologies.
This time, the stories within are from the 1940s and 1950s.
Many of the ideas are outdated or don't have the same zing they once held.
So much has happened in the last 70+ years to make science fiction more mainstream and acceptable such that the level of creativity has risen along with the sheer number of stories and plotlines continuously revisited.That said, there are a few gems within this selection of fourteen short stories.
A fine collections of short stories written during the time this was published, but the unfortunate thing is that it has been said - in "Grumbles from the Grave", that Heinlein himself had had nothing to do with the selection of these stories and that the book was published without is consent and consideration and therefore nothing more that a marketing ploy capitalizing on his name alone.
By Frederk Pohl and Judith Merril as Robert A.
Heinlein ContentsIntroduction (Tomorrow, the Stars) • (1951) • essay by Robert A.
HeinleinI'm Scared • (1951) • short story by Jack FinneyThe Silly Season • (1950) • short story by C.M. KornbluthThe Report on the Barnhouse Effect • (1950) • short story by Kurt Vonnegut Jr.The Tourist Trade • (1951) • short story by Wilson Tucker [as by Bob Tucker]Rainmaker • (1949) • short story by John ReeseAbsalom • (1946) • short story by Henry KuttnerThe Monster • (1951) • short story by Lester del ReyJay Score • [Jay Score/Marathon] • (1941) • short story by Eric Frank RussellBetelgeuse Bridge • (1951) • short story by William TennSurvival Ship • (1951) • short story by Judith MerrilKeyhole • (1951) • short story by Murray LeinsterMisbegotten Missionary • (1950) • short story by Isaac Asimov (aka Green Patches)The Sack • (1950) • short story by William MorrisonPoor Superman • (1951) • novelette by Fritz Leiber (aka Appointment in Tomorrow)
I typically enjoy old sci-fi and this book delivered.
Some of the stories are stronger than others, but none of them were total disappointments.
It's funny to think how I'm posting this review via a wireless connection to a global information network only 60 years after these writers were envisioning secretary robots and telepathic lifeforms in the solar system.
It was a great escape from other matters, and nothing overly hokey.
Asimov's story is great - it is vague enough that it never feels dated and the message works.
'Keyhole' was a stand-out piece with a great ending and message.
Apparently this is the only anthology book that Heinlein ever put together. I really like the Kurt Vonnegut story, as his story about "luck-based telekinesis" definitely feels like a predecessor to comicbook characters like Amos Fortune, and he tells his story almost completely without using things like "quotation marks" or traditional "dialogue". I liked the part in the Fritz Lieber's story about how we've always "thought the second coming of Christ would be another person, why can't it be a machine?" (I'm paraphrasing).Overall, a totally worthwhile series of stories published in the 1950s that reek of THE FUTURE science fiction
This is an anthology of short stories by various authors which I had not read in a while. It was interesting to read these again, but I found them very dated as most were written in the 1940's to early 1950's. They were the best of their genre at the time and very often predictive of the scientific trends that were to come. It is always interesting to go back to the early days to appreciate how the genre has developed. Worth a read by any hard core sci-fi fan.
Actually have a 1967 edition, but all of them seem to closely resemble each other. All of these stories stand out as absolute treats of golden age sci-fi especially Vonnegut's "The Report on the Barnhouse Effect". The selection of the stories and arranging for their publication, was actually done by Frederik Pohl and Judith Merril whose names are often omitted from many publications.
This is a good collection of science fiction short stories. Each of the stories is quite creative, and there are frequently twists that force the reader to change his or her perspective in an interesting way. It is quite fun to read what the minds of science fiction were saying about space travel before the first voyage to the moon.
Probably the best thing about this collection is Heinlein's intro, which is very good indeed. The stories themselves though tend to have rather a lightweight effect. It's a little hard for me to believe that Heinlein had much to do with their selection; this anthology looks more like something that C M Kornbluth might have concocted.
A collection of short scifi stories from the 40s and 50s. I found this in a used book store, and first noticed it because of the editor's name. Of course I had to buy it.See Wikipedia for the table of contents. I found "The Tourist Trade and "The Rainmaker" indifferent and "Absalom" disturbing, but the others were rather good.
Sadly, the stories in this book haven't aged well. Most of them were written around the 1950 and so there's a lot of "White American Men Doing Science!" There are some good stories by Henry Kuttner and Fritz Leiber, but this is a lackluster anthology from the tail end of the Golden Age of SF.
A good collection of sci-fi short stories. A lot of them have creative little jabs to turn what you think is going to happen upside down.
Heinlein edited this collection. Reread July 1979Read April 1979
Tomorrow the Stars by Robert A. Heinlein (1984)
ISFDB 274948. OCLC 7241354.
This is a book of short stories. I liked all but two of them. They are all copyrighted from the 1950's and are well written.
I thought it was a great collection. Particularly memorable is "The Silly Season" by C. M. Kornbluth. Every media fanatic oughta read this one. There's other good stuff also, though.
