https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27333.Silent_Spring
But the true value of the book is in understanding how long a time frame has to elapse before such matters of truly catastrophic nature follows the process of scientific suspicion, investigation, verification, then the slow seepage into public consciousness, then the denialism and finally the first baby steps of public policy.
Reading the book so many years after its intended audience we have to go beyond the book and apply the concern to the current issues that we face.
It is not the facts or the issues that is important, it is the attitude that Carson endorses.With the potent weapons in our hands, can we still afford to be so lax in our reaction to life threatening dangers sneering in our face?
Everyone should read this at least once.
This reads as a horror story, but it is true.
-The author expertly alternates between poetic expression and scientific accuracy.-Eloquent prose.
That’s the essential.Carson shows through carefully identified and quantified examples the inherent danger of pesticides, that they not only do not work and that they have serious side effects.
She goes one step further and identifies better alternatives - biotic controls.
I wish another author would follow up her analyses and describe how pesticides and herbicides are used today.
Perfect speed, perfect intonation and performed with a poetic lilt when the lines so demanded.
How could I forget the first book I read about pesticides, and how they are destroying our planet?
After reading Carson's book, I decided this is what I wanted to do with my life.
I believe this book is as relevant today as it was when she wrote it in 1962.
She has an ease of writing, that not only expresses her deep concerns for the environment, but also feels highly personal.
It is fascinating to read of one highly intelligent woman's concerns for the future, and how we had the opportunity to act years ago.
As fascinating a read now as it was then.
The book was written by a scientist, marine biologist Carson, who had written the perhaps more poetic and less scientific but also popular The Sea Around Us, published seven years before, and its successor, The Edge of the Sea. These books were essentially about the love of nature and “the sense of wonder” we need to appreciate the world around us.But Carson saw horrific, ignorant things happening to the environment in the fifties.
Each time we breach these defenses a horde of insects pours through." There are a couple odd implications here, like nature being a "designed" clockwork system of checks and balances, and insects as a kind of evil constantly trying to overthrow it.
Of course, further down the page she writes, "The balance of nature is not a status quo; it is fluid, ever shifting, in a constant state of adjustment." The two statements seem at odds, and the bulk of the book effuses the latter sentiment, but I found it strange that she would occasionally be so careless with her language.
Reposted in honour of her 111th birthday!David Attenborough said that after Charles Darwin's The Origin of Species, Silent Spring was probably the book that changed the scientific world the most.Why?
Because marine biologist Rachel Carson explains in no uncertain terms exactly how mankind was changing the natural world for the worse in unimagined ways through pesticide use.
A couple of decades later we were told pretty much the same thing about Roundup, a herbicide, not a pesticide, which has also fallen into serious disrepute recently.I understand it was the editors who recommended that Carson add an opening chapter.
This is nonfiction concerning the harmful effects that chemicals, which were created to make life easier for man (pesticides, weed killers, etc.) have on the environment.
This was first published in 1962 and the author is credited for opening the door on his topic.
However, even now, 55 years later, it is still considered a hot topic.
Great strides have been made in this arena, but vigilance must me constant.
This book made me rethink my own gardening and lawn habits....what I should or should not use to curb weeds and crabgrass.
Upton Sinclair miscalculated when he wrote The Jungle, aiming for the heart but instead hitting the stomach; and as a result, the book was interpreted as an exposé of the meat industry rather than a plea for the working poor.
Aldo Leopold, in A Sand County Almanac, eschews appeals to expediency, and instead focuses on the spiritual joys of wild nature; but his book didn’t result in any legislation.
It is this focus that makes the book so effective: she appeals to the stomach, the heart, the head, and also to Aldo Leopold’s spiritual values—but most of all, she appeals to self-interest, the strongest motivator of all.
All I can say is that this book completely rocked my world.
By the same token her words about pesticides are nothing short of chilling, and since I've read Silent Spring I've evolved into a passionate environmentalist.
Fair warning: this isn't an easy book to read emotionally.
A few times I had to put it down, wondering if I had the courage to keep going and face the truth of what's happening to our world.
But every time I went back, and I'm so, so glad that I did.
Read Silent Spring - I promise you'll never be the same, and that you won't regret it.
AcknowledgementsAuthor's NoteIntroduction, by Lord ShackletonPreface, by Julian Huxley, F.R.S.--Silent SpringAfterword, by Linda LearList of Principal SourcesIndex
This rule doesn’t work well for assigned reading, and fifty pages into Silent Spring I was so bored I was spending more time thinking of ways to avoid reading the book than actually reading it.
Silent Spring was a success, and because all the various evidence that she uses in her book are examples I was strongly familiar with, solidly shows what type of impact her argument made.
She knows the association that people have with arsenic being a poison, but is it not also an essential element to man and plants?
A planet, not separate and independent worlds.Ein Mensch alleine kann doch alles erreichen, wenn eine engagierte Öffentlichkeit dahinter steht.Es ist inspirierend, was ein Mensch mit einer Vision alleine zustande gebracht hat.
Die Initiative eines Menschen ist ein Armutszeugnis für alle, die sagen, sie könnten nichts zustande bringen.
Auch waren die Menschen so konservativ, dass man mit Verstößen gegen den Opportunismus leicht massive private und berufliche Probleme bekommen konnte.
Dass ihnen die Möglichkeiten, sich zu engagieren, von der Gesellschaft vorenthalten und vertuscht werden, ist deren Schuld.
Ein Planet, nicht von sich getrennte und unabhängige Welten.
Update May2018 A couple of good articles about the book were recently brought to my attention.
The WSJ one is here:https://www.wsj.com/articles/silent-s...The Daily Beast did one titled "How Rachel Carson Cost Millions of People Their Lives" about the unintended consequences.
It's here:https://www.thedailybeast.com/how-rac...I haven't had time to read either yet.Nov 2008: I've re-read this after maybe 30 years & it is still scary.
It was written over 45 years ago &, while a little dated, is still one of the best books I've read on the subject.
Her well documented atrocities that our government has perpetrated against us are chilling.
I never trusted the government all that much but trust them even less now.
But this book that really started the modern environmental movement and rose the consciences of millions of Americans is still as important today as it was 45 years ago.
Whether it’s the use of chemicals still sprayed into are yards and on our food today, or lessons on the importance of questioning how our actions affect our world, Rachel Carson broke the mold.
Every person needs to read this book.
Its far to important today with global warming, our fossil fuel addiction, and the chemicals that you ingest every day for you NOT to read this book.
What is there to add to the universal praise for Rachel Carson? This book isn't a walk in the park, and it's crammed with (accesible) Scientific data, but it changed the world. I was more fascinated by Carson's rhetoric than in her findings, which are now more than 45 years old. I read this book to learn how she built a case that challenged every major scientific, political and corporate institution in the country. And she did it by connecting with the shared values of average Americans. Bravo, Rachel!
In a world of science beholden to capitalist interests and run by men, she defied all conventions in publishing this non-academic yet copiously researched expose on Big-Ag and the effects of pesticide use.
They aren't kidding when they say Carson provided the spark for the modern environmental movement.
It's basically a catalogue of the effects of different kinds of pesticides at various levels (species, community, ecosystem) and on various organisms (from plants to ants to cattle to people).
Silent Spring's "Fun to Read" rating is probably between a 2 and a 5, depending on how interested you are in the environmental movement and food sourcing.
It was historical in a way, and I would like to read an update on the science and a more recent history of our use of pesticides, and the banning (or not) of the ones she mentions.
When I hear now that a bunch of birds are found dead, like all the redwing blackbirds that died in the south a few years ago, I have no doubt it is from a chemical, or pesticide release.
Perhaps Kolbert's 'The Sixth Extinction' is the follow up book to Silent Spring- but I do still want a specific update to Carson's book, point by point.
I had heard of Silent Spring for a long time, and when I stumbled upon it recently I knew right away I had to read this book.
Rachel Carson wrote this when JFK was president, and he being the man he was took action straight away.
The afterword, by Linda Lear was written in 98.I can't believe that a book dealing with hydrocarbons could be so poetically written and so clearly explained.
I can't believe that I've read such a book.
The case studies are, of course, from America in the main, and from way back in the 1950's., a time when ecology didn't even exist.
Silent Spring by Rachel Carson can be considered a pivotal work, and must reading for those who are concerned about the environment.
A marine biologist by training, and also a writer of three other works, Silent Spring was not received with acclaim.
To my non-scientific reading, it seems like evidence enough for me.
And that's just the point: she addressed this book to the general public, and hit a nerve.I admit that I skimmed some parts, particularly the technical sections.
Ironically, she was battling breast cancer while writing book.
After being in the environmental field for 15 years, I decided it was about time to finish reading the book that started it all, at least what we know as the modern environmental movement (I won't get into what I think is happening in the environmental movement right now).
If you are of my generation (thirtysomethings), you will probably start to read this and think "Yea, Yea, I know all of this already" because that's what I thought at first.
It wasn't until I was looking for a Rachel Carson book to read that I realized I never rated or reviewed this one.
I'm currently reading "The Sea Around Us," but am rating this one from a couple of years' memory.This book is truly a classic in the nature lit world.
Carson has that unique ability, like Stephen Jay Gould and Carl Sagan, to write like a creative writer while coming to us from the world of science.
This book is a wonderful balance of science (dated a bit now, but still good stuff) and engaging writing.If you can't tell, I'm a pretty big Rachel Carson fan.
In keeping with Dad's injunction to spend the summer's constructively and not wanting to work at Dairy Queen or the like, I took Public Speaking between the sophomore and junior years of high school.
Don Martello, the instructor, had a good reputation among students which turned out to be well-deserved.
I was inexperienced as a public speaker and felt it would be prudent to overcome the fear I had of it.The way the class was constructed required both research and presentation.
The major chemical companies are pouring money into the universities to support research on insecticides. This creates attractive fellowships for graduate students and attractive staff positions. Biological-control studies, on the other hand, are never so endowed — for the simple reason that they do not promise anyone the fortunes that are to be made in the chemical industry. These are left to state and federal agencies, where the salaries paid are far less. Should you take an ethics engineerin
Should you take an ethics engineering courseat UCLA unless things have changed dramatically in the last six or so years, you will not read excerpts of this book or delve into the thought control machine that is university funding and other forms of capitalistic peer pressure.
However, until someone pens a text as accessible and as concerned with the ethics of discovery and advancement as this one, this work is vital reading, especially in the days of STEM brainwashing and every excuse made for the sake of the money, the money, the money.
Silent Spring or, How the Reader Decided to Become a Hunter-GathererWhat begins with a surprisingly beautifully written introduction that would rival the best nature writing quickly gives way to an onslaught of data, a barrage of statistics all perfectly designed to regret your participation in the modern world.Of course, this book is outdated.
But of course it's much easier to ignore those thoughts and get a pretty field of homogeneously green soybeans, empty of all insect life.Is it really a good idea to take oil out of the ground and burn three billion, five hundred and seventy million gallons of it per day?
We are possibly not plagued by pesticides today but the contemporary world continuously abounds with other man-inflicted predicaments.The book transcends its time and contents and assumes new revelations and significance for the modern society.
Unfortunately,The slow undoing and apocalypse triggerd by human beings have evolved with the time .
Virus could evolve into variables more fatal , likewise , so many invisible and imperceptible new camouflaged undoings canstill beset andtraumatize us.
If I become more interdisciplinary, the book is that lighthouse.Inadvertent occurence could evolve into an serendipity!
I'm writing about this book for one of my favorite websites. Stay tuned!
Silent Spring has been on my want list for quite some time now, but it’s always one of those books that seemed non-urgent.
You know nobody else is going to bring it up in conversation- it’s one of those books you get told about in grade school, but you’re never actually required to read it.
One thing I did find concerning though was the eagerness with which Carson encourages using natural pest control (like introducing new species that eat them) in chemicals’ stead.
I first read this book almost twenty five years ago, and rereading it now confirms my opinion at that time that Carson, long viewed as one of the most influential women in America, was brilliant.
In the book, Carson drew attention at the time (1962) to the damage to the environment being caused by pesticides, particularly the toxic effects of dichloro diphenyl trichloroethane (DDT) on the bird population.
But Carson Stewart Udall, Secretary of the Interior, praised Carson’s work, and organized an investigation of the industry which led ultimately to the Pesticide Control Act of 1972, which banned the use of DDT.
After reading it, I feel the eternal link between DDT and Silent Spring is an oversimplification of what Carson tried to achieve.
The mere fact that this discussion is still ongoing, makes it clear that Silent Spring hasn't lost any of its relevance.
Silent Spring is a book everybody with an interest in environmental matters should read, and, after you are done, think about carefully instead of jumping on one of the bandwagons of people who use the fame of this work for their own purposes.Full Random Comments review
This may have been a "brilliantly written book" when it came out in the early 60s, but time has not 
