https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2419393.The_Case_of_Sergeant_Grischa
Before he leaves the German camp, Babka gives Sergeant the name tag of Bjuscheff a dead soldier who is a German deserter.
The pivotal scene is when he reveals his true identity as a Russian soldier Grischa and not the German deserter Bjuscheff, he thinks that he will be saved only to realize that Schieffenzahn will restore his death penalty just for the sake of discipline.
A lone man's struggle for justice amidst German's search for its own identity in between the two world wars.A must read for all WWI-interested readers.
A stirring novel full of beautiful descriptions of the settings in which the title character, a Russian POW during WWI, escapes from the timber camp, heads for home, gets recaptured and sentenced to death. I was extremely impressed with the language used to describe nature and the feelings of the characters.
After all, Zweig's novel takes place at the bitter end of World War I, as a Russian soldier (voting with his feet, as Lenin is said to have put it) tries to find his way home from behind the German lines.
The German military, composed largely in this novel of honorable aristocrats and idealistic officers, including a Jew, tries and fails to save him from the firing squad.
Much of the novel and a fair amount of comedy is devoted by the efforts of those military bureaucrats to save Grischa from its own absurdly lethal regulations, resorting even to subterfuge at the end.
It's been a very long time since I read anything that got under my skin so much.
The night when I tried to go to bed with about sixty pages left to read I found I couldn't sleep.This book is an outstanding example of how good writing elevates whatever the subject is -- the story could easily have been sentimental and the moralizing heavy-handed (there are one or two moments that the author doesn't quite pull off) but it turned out beautifully.
The last chapter is just the perfect finish for it.People can be terrible to one another and the state of the world is bad, but a thin thread of hope remains.
Brilliant and moving account of an incident which occured in the first world war. Russian Grischa escapes from a prisoner of war camp and decides to walk home, he gets lost and is eventually recaptured but he has taken the identity of a deserter and is sentenced to be shot. Can he prove his innocence or will the words of one of the characters prove true, " the Divisional Court Martial works like a machine, whaen once a man is caught init , he only comes out as a corpse"
This is about justice, which among many other things, determines the fate of nations. And this seems to have done just that - after the book was written. We have a little voice within us which tells us the right thing to do, but if it's hard to hear the little voice, we have the Torah to guide us.The setting: the German eastern front, 1917.
Set largely on the Eastern front during WWI Zweig's novel focusses on a very specific and singular injustice. Like all similar tales that describe the difficulty of obtaining justice in wartime it often borders on the absurd, being saved only by the meticulous description and exploration of the inner states of the various characters. An excellent tale.
This novel of the First World War is both epic and masterful. It is the story of an ordinary Russian soldier who escapes from prison camp and decides to walk home to his family. In the process of returning he assumes the identity of a dead soldier, but then his real adventures begin.
German book written in 1928, one of the earlier novels of WW I. A Russian POW escapes from captivity, and when recaptured is sentenced to death in a case of mistaken identity. Very interesting viewpoint on German attitude toward Jews (Zweig was Jewish). Very unusual and worthwhile book!
-nagyon hangsúlyosan a NOSZF (nagy október szocialista forradalom) előtti pár napban kulminál a cselekmény azzal, hogy a németek kivégeznek egy ártatlan orosz hadifoglyot (olyan dologért, amit egy másik hadifogoly követett el, aki már meghalt eddigre).
7-ig.- Nem zsidó történet, Zweig cionizmusa miatt jókat lehetne vitatkozni rajta, ahogy ez zsidó irodalom-e, mindenesetre látszik, hogy a szerző tipikusan ez az I.
Grisa legszívesebben Tevjére, a zsidóra bízná a gyerekt "mert tudott dolog, hogy a zsidók nyájasak a gyermekeikhez, és semmiképpen sem olyan durvák, mint a parasztok" -jó, hát politikailag nem korrekt, de tetszik és úgy is folytatódhatna, mint Aszkoldov "A komisszár" című filmje.
The infantry division which has custody prepares to prosecute him for his escape, but the paperwork winds up before the army commander, who decides that even though the prisoner is innocent, allowing any enemy soldier convicted of spying to live might be bad for German morale, and orders the death sentence to be carried out.The division commander, his chief legal advisor, his aide-de-camp, and others involved in the custody of this man are outraged, partly over the injustice of it, but also over the interference of Army in a matter that should have been handled at their level.

World War I: a Russian prisoner of war is the object of power games between German generals. A perfect example for the complete non-sense of life, in particular during war times.
Fascinating read about a Russian who escaped from a German prisoner of war camp, only to find himself back in the German's clutches.
At the advice of a Russian woman he had met after his escape, Grischa indicates that he is a German soldier who deserted his unit.
But that makes the situation worse, as all deserters are to be executed immediately.
The situation turns political, as some parties want to return him to Russia since the war is nearing the end, while others still want to see Grischa executed.
Grischa sits in limbo for the bulk of the novel, before finally resigning to his fate.
to look into/hunt downFrom wiki: The Case of Sergeant Grischa (1927) is a war novel by the German writer Arnold Zweig. Its original German title is Der Streit um den Sergeanten Grischa. It is part of Zweig's hexalogy Der große Krieg der weißen Männer (The great war of white men). It was part of the so-called "war book boom" of the late 1920s, during which many veterans of the First World War turned their memories and experiences into semi-autobiographical novels. The first English edition was published in 1928.
I enjoyed this book, and I got really into it in the middle, but because it's a translation and it deals with such a heavy topic the pace can be quite slow and it can be difficult to read. None-the-less, I'm glad I read it!
Heel goed, dit boek.
