https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/688700.Hedda_Gabler_and_Other_Plays
Μ' άρεσε που στο τέλος με κάποιον τρόπο ήρθε η κάθαρση αλλά έγινε κάπως βιαστικά.Το δεύτερο ονομάζεται (Η αγριόπαπια | Vildanden | 1884) όπου ο ιδεαλιστής γιος ενός βιομηχάνου προσπαθώντας να αποκαλύψει το ψέμα πίσω από τον γάμο του φίλου του του καταστρέφει τη ζωή με πολύ βαριές συνέπειες.
Θύμωσα και παρόλο που μ' άρεσε σαν ιστορία μου φάνηκαν υπερβολικές οι αντιδράσεις του στο άκουσμα της αλήθειας, υπερβολικές στο σημείο του ψεύτικου.Το τρίτο ονομάζεται 1890 (Έντα Γκάμπλερ | Hedda Gabler | 1890) κι εδώ βλέπουμε μια απογοητευμένη γυναίκα παγιδευμένη σ' ένα γάμο και μια ζωή που δε θέλει, κι έτσι για να βγει από την βαρεμάρα παίζει με τη μοίρα κάποιων ανθρώπων που πάλι θα φέρει τραγικά αποτελέσματα.
Introduction--The Pillars of the Community--The Wild Duck--Hedda GablerNotes
The Pillars of the Community 3/5The Wild Duck 3/5Hedda Gabler 3.5/5
But being a student of the theatre in general and great playwrights in particular I knew I would one day have to read some more Ibsen.Whenever I am engaged in the act of playwriting (like I am now) I like to immerse myself in dramatic literature.
I skipped over "A Doll's House," which I had read in college and dived right into "Hedda Gabler." What a feast of delights this play proved to be!
In fact, Hedda reminds me of Shakespeare's Cleopatra in that it feels like it would take four actresses acting all at the same time to deliver a performance as nuanced and multifaceted as Ibsen's writing.
I'm going to see the national theatre stream of Hedda Gabler in March, and I've been aware of the play for a while. I really enjoyed all three plays in this edition. Ibsen definitely has a style, all three plays hinge on the truth about a particular individual but their endings are very different. Often unsatisfying actually, but always poignant.
3.5 / 5 for Hedda Gabler
I really enjoyed this play which isn't a surprise because I love most of Ibsen's work. He is so good at stripping away the veneer and letting you know that he is warming you up to a tragedy. You are left to wonder who it involves until later in the play but you can see the train wreck coming.
A weird story about a strange and hateful woman.
The only honest adult among the characters native to the town is Bernick's foreman Aune, and he is forced by the threat of dismissal to make the poor quality ship repairs against his better judgment.One of Ibsen's themes is the passing of corruption from father to son, and it can be seen in a mild form in this play in Olaf, Bernick's son, who is keen to travel, to take part in the modern world, and at one point is thought to have stowed away on the dangerous ship.The main purpose of the play is the attack on the complacent superiority of the relatively unsophisticated Norwegian bourgeois, and it succeeds admirably, paving the way for the greater plays to come.
not quite as strong as the other ibsen volume i have but still good. the pillars of the community is the weakest of the three but the wild duck and hedda gabler are both bleak tragedies. interesting stuff in the translators notes on how 19th century norwegian is more distant from modern norwegian than 19th century english is from modern english
Published 1950 and still readable in 2018, which puts Ms Fermor's first volume of Ibsen translations ahead of a number of other 'Penguin Classics' from the same era. A very good place to start on your journey through the great man's output. Ibsen remains the first Nineteenth Century dramatist you should look at and these are three of his most affecting. Very strongly recommended.
I did not read the first play, "The Pillars of the Community." "The Wild Duck" I rate three stars. "Hedda Gabler" gets 3.5.
"Hedda Gabler" is the fast-paced story of an unhappily married young woman, whose cunning and manipulation earn her a detestable reputation within the family.
Married to Jörgen Tesman, a scholar in the history of civilisation, Hedda makes her misery known by refusing to indulge in her husband's desires.
Desperate to earn the satisfaction of his wife, however, Jörgen continually attempts to please Hedda, but fails to evoke any desirable effects.
This role-reversal of husband and wife is exquisitely portrayed by Ibsen who uses delightful imagery and diction to illustrate how Hedda's manipulative edge allows her to completely dominate the relationship.
He was so ahead of his time, especially with Hedda Gabler (even more so, in my opinion, than A Doll's House, a play that I also love.)There is so much to say about this particular story, and I think this would be a great story for a book club.
The idea of death was so romantic to her, but to put it into simple words I think she just was bored (and depressed) with life in general and wanted "out." Maybe I'm making it sound a bit too simple -- I am open for debate on this one.
Some thing I studied for my first year of English Literature I found it one of the best plays on the reading list that included Shakespeare's twelfth night and Pinter's The Caretaker. Perhaps one of the most prominent points of the play is the portrayal of women and that of social acceptability. The main character is quite complex and I would argue is neither good or bad, the combination leaving the audience with mixed emotions. I would describe it as a must read and a play that I would very much like to see performed.
This is one of those books that not many read for fun. I am one of them. I came across this book when I had to teach it for the iGCSE exams. The translation seems to maintain the dark humor and wit that Ibsen intended in his original work. The protagonist is detestable and pitiful; it is also someone who you want to root for at the same time. In the end, the protagonist is paradoxically a winner and a loser.
This was playwriting homework and I only actually read the last play Hedda Gabler. It was ok, reading plays loses some of their appeal I think - they are meant to be seen. The characters portrayed are such parodies of the time that I struggled to take anything seriously. I didn't really care that Hedda killed a man and then herself. I was actually more interested in the scientific papers lol.
Timeless classic of modern play act structure. Hedda is not a villian or destructive; her "killing time" is laugh out loud satire, intelligent and very entertaining. Ibsen's form and content are playwriting perfection. How could anyone miss the point and take it too seriously? This isn't tragedy. It is social commentary at its best and most balanced. I saw A Doll's House performed in college and would love to see Hedda Gabler!
A Victorian era play about a woman, Hedda Gabler, who was raised around the army by her father, a general, and was no stranger to guns, horses and excitement. Hedda finds no space to live in a world with certain expectations of a lady, and tries desperately to find freedom, life and meaning in the mundane existence she now occupies. I love a story that can pull off an unhappy ending well.
Henrik Ibsen's plays are socially aware drama revealing middle-class issues that people avoided talking about. As you might expect from issues that people avoid talking about they are depressing, so that is why I put ok.
Pillars of the community: good start, but very gentle denouementThe Wild Duck: very confusedHedda Gabler: strong whole, up to the end; about power and powerlessness, boredom, nihilism, hopelessness;
Hmmm. I haven't read drama in a long time and perhaps I might enjoy Hedda Gabler on the stage. But really it was just evil woman destroys everyone's life and then kills herself. Oh well it was dramatic. I can say that.
Very Good.
Reading this in high school I was fascinated by Hedda Gabler's character, her defiance and repressed anger. Still love this play.
1982 Edition
Ibsen is a master of bringing out hypocrisy in the everyday.
Re-visted Hedda Gabler one of my favorite Ibsen Plays regarding a conflict for a passion, social conformity and self-destruction. Terrific twists of revealing the truth.
I could never get into Ibsen's work. I don't necessarily find his work bad, but I personally don't enjoy it much.
Like
