https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99449.Heaven_Cent
We both liked it, which encouraged us later to read several more books in the series.Anthony is a profoundly morally-grounded writer; his main characters are all fundamentally decent persons who want to do the right thing, and his plots tend to feature various large and small ethical choices and dilemmas that explore what the right thing is, and why.
But as this example suggests, his view of sex grounds it firmly in a context of family and moral responsibility, and his main characters all avoid loose sex as a matter of principle.) All of these characteristics of the series are well-evident in this installment.Without giving away the ending, it will suffice to say that the conclusion here leaves unfinished business and unresolved loose ends, which are addressed in Book 13, Isle of View --which you'll certainly want to read as well!
After a long period away from the Xanth series, I came across Heaven Cent and couldn’t remember reading it.
Today, as I read Heaven Cent, I still groaned at the familiar puns like “skeleton key” as both pointing to a possible island or something related to a “literal” skeleton and those of questionable taste such as “picking a bone” with regard to skeletal procreation, but the word play was more capriciously exploratory than tediously forced and I appreciated that.
He talks his parents into allowing him to try to solve the puzzle with “appropriate” adult supervision, but the quest goes further and further afield from the royal parents’ expectations.
An the Xanth series continues30 December 2011 It is fascinating read what other people's opinions on the various books on Goodreads, particularly those that I myself have read. A lot of the reviews suggest that these later Xanth books where the first that they read, and there is obviously the extensive use of puns. I never really found the puns hugely funny, and it was something that I put up with in the books. I noticed as I read one of the reviews of this book that Anthony had borrowed from a
A lot of the reviews suggest that these later Xanth books where the first that they read, and there is obviously the extensive use of puns.
I noticed as I read one of the reviews of this book that Anthony had borrowed from a lot of classical literature, such as The Devil and Daniel Webster and Sophocles' Electra.
However, that is beside the point because when I read this book long ago I had never heard of Sophocles nor had I heard of Electra, so the retelling would have been lost on me.

This is a continuation of the Xanth series. It's fun and frivolous. The only reason for four stars is that in my opinion, it ends abruptly. This book is a tale of young Prince Dolph and the search for the Heaven Cent. The search leads him to Mundania (where we live) and some interesting discussions about how our technology could be viewed as magic since that is common place on Xanth.
Dolph, Ivy's brother, wants to see the world, so he goes off to look for the Magician Humfrey--who's still missing.
He's got a sentient skeleton to help him, and feels pretty safe; he can shapeshift into any animal, so he's unlikely to get into trouble.
That is, unless you count lady trouble.
He is faced with rescuing not one but two women, and must also escape evil ladies who want to marry him or devour him.
But when unavoidable affairs leave Dolph betrothed to two women, what will he do to resolve his future?There are SO many frustrating lady-things in this book.
It concerns nine year old Prince Dolph, who goes on a quest, along with his adult, skeletal companion Marrow Bones, to find the still missing Magician Humphrey.
(view spoiler)[He also manages to find himself engaged to not one but two girls by the end of the novel.
the plot feels like it is merely an excuse Mr. Anthony came up with for writing a bunch of sub-stories regarding his nine year old hero.
In my opinion, that's a fair rating for collection of stories centered around a loose excuse for a plot line.
You can pull a lever to divert the trolley but doing so will kill one person on the other track: what do you do?)Each Xanth book features one or more issues like this, intellectual concepts presented amidst silly fantasy stories, and I think that's the real saving grace for these books, and why I can still read them when I can't really get into Harry Potter anymore.
Heaven Cent is the eleventh book in the Xanth series, and has a great plot and many adventures in it. In the story the main character was Prince Dolph, who was the son of King Dor and had the ability to change from his natural form to the form of any other living creature. He went on an adventure to find the missing Magician Humphrey, who had disappeared a few years before, and with him he brought the living skeleton Marrow. On the adventure he learned that he needed to locate an object called
Heaven Cent is the eleventh book in the Xanth series, and has a great plot and many adventures in it.
On the adventure he learned that he needed to locate an object called the Heaven Cent to find Humphrey and he also met and assisted many different people along the way.
Heaven Cent also has a few puns here and there, for those who like them.
Also, if you are going to read this book it is better to have read the books that come before it in the Xanth series.

Another one down. Unfortunately I skipped the 10th book. I'll have to take a step back and then catch up. As usual, about half way through the book I thought it could be done.
I have read this one many times but I think this will always be one of my favourites
(Weird.)So off they go on their quest, but of course something else happens and Dolph has to save women.
What's a shapeshifting harem hub boy to do?So he goes to this "Test of the Roses" plot point and has each girl stand on a platform while he picks a rose that symbolizes how he feels about them.
Dolph's actually in love with Nada so he gets a red rose for her, and he wants Electra to survive but he can only pick a yellow rose for her (symbolizing friendship).
Sadly, Electra IS in love with HIM, and Nada ISN'T.
As an introduction to Piers Anthony works, "Heaven Cent" offers quite a delightful foray into Xanth as well as a glimpse of its populace, from the creatures of the gourd who create dreams (e.g. the skeletons who abhor flesh, the nightmares who carry bad dreams, and the formidable White Stallion), the domain of the merpeople, dragons and all manners of winged beings, and an assortment of other creatures commonly found in fantasy literature.
The series occupies a strange space between silly and weird.
Anthony has some odd opinions on themes, such as sex, racism, prejudice, growing up, and the use of magic in everyday life.
The writing vacillates between heavy-handed condescending to extended analysis of magic, science, and the application of the rules of Xanth.
Some love it, some hate it; I personally thought it was a strange read but harmless, although I doubt I'll read each book twice.
One thing about Anthony, he has a very complicated history and genealogy of Xanth and its characters and you have to appreciate how he always finds ways to connect them from book to book.
Ultimately, it is a bit of a Superman problem where Kryptonite (reverse wood) needs to be introduced and appear randomly in order to create any danger at all.- The protagonist has no real investment in the quest (he was just bored, really) and has no real growth.- Oddly, I was a bit disturbed by the main character being put in sexual situations (he is 9), though that wasn't an issue for me with book 3 (where the protagonist is 12).
This is partly because in the other book, the character is in an adult body and therefore the adult women flirting with him don't realize that he is just a child.
Unfortunately, the story is not big enough for two books and the concluding novel just seems like a drug out final chapter for this one.
Book 11 of the Xanth series focuses on Prince Dolph.
Determined to have an adventure, he decides that the best adventure he could go on would be to find Good Magician Humphrey, who has been missing for 3 years.
He takes Marrow Bones along with him as his adult guardian, though that was not quite his plan.
Going to the Good Magician's castle, he find a clue that says "Skeleton key to Heaven Cent".
From there, the adventure takes off.
Coming home to Castle Roogna after this adventure is completed, he stuns his parents, Dor and Irene.
It reminds me of Dor's adventure in the tapestry in book 3.
Everyone wants to marry Dolph in this one even though he's only nine years old.
Now that all the first main characters have kids and grandchildren, the stories are pretty heavy on the kids, but they're not even so much interesting kids like in South Park or Bob's Burgers.
I compare it to cartoon shows because these Xanth stories are much like cartoon animation.
I just realized that the Dolph didn't even complete his mission.
Also, I do not like the use of the tapestry in the castle to observe Dolph's every move.
The tapestry is supposed to represent ancient history of Xanth.
"Love is greater than death when it is strong and new."We're introduced to Dolph (young shapeshifting son of Dor and Irene), who goes on a quest to find the still missing Good Magician Humphrey.
I like this tale of Xanth, because Dolph is young, so we get a equal amount of situations where he's out of his depth, and situations where adults are out of their depth and he perseveres in the situation by looking at it in a new angle.
In this book we follow Dolph as he quests to find the missing Magician of Information, with his friend and adult protector Marrow.
Somehow, despite being only 9, most of the Xanth female population re out to snag a prince, and Dolph ends up with not one but two betrothals.
I've always enjoyed this one because I know how the romance winds up, but I imagine reading it through the first time and shudder.
The quest for the Good Magician isn't concluded yet, so it's on to the next book, "Man from Mundania".
I love the idea of the Xanth stories.
My husband started reading them since he has a bit of time between graduation and law school and I was cuddled up next to him and read a page or two.
I love the puns and the twists.
I enjoy the characters and the connections.
I also got a bit tired of naked women trying to seduce him.
Other than that, though, it was a fun story.
I could see myself retelling it to my kids as a bedtime story and leaving out the stuff I didn't like.
This one was a fun read but left the reader hanging a bit which forces one to buy the next book.
I planned to buy it but I do not like the push and though Anthony is as dependable as can be, I have been burned too often by writers who left cliff hangers and then got writer's block or some other life crisis or dropped dead and the answers are never given.
I don't like cliff hangers and especially if I have to wait a year for the answer.
I only get ticked over books I get engaged with to the point that I need the answer.
enjoyable quick read. I enjoyed reading a story about Dolph and Ivy as children. I have read other books in the Xanth series which have a lot more puns than this one. I missed the puns and found the puns in this one forced. The story itself was interesting, but only gets three stars as the other Xanth adventures had more action and adventure. It was hard to believe the romantic elements of this tale with the main character being only 9.
SUMMARY:In the mind of Xanth's precious shapeshifting Prince Dolph, the perfect was to see the world is to search for the missing sorcerer, Humfrey. Setting off with his faithfuls companion, Marrow, an enchanted skeleton, Dolph will penetrate an island of illusion, escape a goblin kingdom, outwit a husband-hungry mermaid, save marrow from bone-starved harpies, and find romance with a slinky snake princess--all on his way to discovering a magic coin with all the answers!
This is a turning point for Piers Anthony - in which he ceases his atttempts to write good plots and becomes a dirty old punster. I've read many of the books after this on in the series in the hopes that he would return to his roots, but he never does. While they're entertaining, they're no longer the same genre at all, and decend further and further into collections of dirty jokes, innuendoes and bad puns strung together with a loose plotline.
The Xanth books were a hoot the first time through (many years ago). I attempted to reread them again recently, but they don't work for me now. It's probably not a maturity thing, because I still think Gilligan is funny! Hmmm. If you haven't read them yet, go for it. If you've read them once, remember them fondly.
I devoured the Xanth books in my youth and enjoyed taking a return trip to the fantasy land of puns and adventure. Heaven Cent is a bit dissatisfying in terms of story resolution and the themes of pubescent love get pretty tired by the halfway mark, but there is enough fun and good characterization to make the trip worth while.
Another quest and find love tale from Anthony. Luckily, he makes his characters somewhat interesting and one is able to enjoy different details and plot elements from book to book. This one is the start of a trilogy so approaches that plot machine from a slightly different angle. Poor Dolph, future King of Xanth, has all the female characters throw themselves at him. Life must be tough...
I liked this one! It feels like a return to the authors original story line. I liked the characters and his thoughts and the quest. That may sound vague but I barely made it through the last book at all. This one held my interest!! Loved the twist at the end and can't wait to see what happens next! Glad to see the next book is about ivy. I miss her from reading dragon on a pedestal.
love it! loved reading the beginning of the dolph, nada, and electra triangle.The was so much I loved in this book. I loved Chex and Cherion's wedding and the surprises. I loved watching Marrow try to watch out for Dolph through all of the trouble he found. There are so many characters in this book and that's the exact kind of book that I love. The more character interaction the happier I am.
