https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36613747-how-to-change-your-mind
"There is so much authority that comes out of the primary mystical experience that it can be threatening to existing hierarchical structures."- Roland Griffiths, quoted in Michael Pollan, How to Change Your Mind"To fall in hell or soar AngelicYou'll need a pinch of psychedelic"- Humphry OsmondI have family that struggle with addiction, depression, PTSD, and anxiety.
Pollan's book does a great job of juggling the memoirist experience with psychedelics (think of this partially as a 21st century version of Thomas De Quincey's Confessions of an English Opium Eater) with a narrative nonfiction exploration of the history and current science surrounding primarily LSD, Psilocybin, and 5-MeO-DMT (the Toad).
Possibly for life.Michael Pollan has done the research and tried four different psychedelics, always under the administration of guides, either underground/outlaws or in labs.
No other drug has that rep.The mind-expanding powers of psychedelics is a function of the infinite connections the brain goes through when its receptors are unlocked and the Default Mode Network (DMN) powers down.
Trite, but that by itself seems to change everyone who tries them.When directed by guides, psychedelics help the dying be relieved and appreciate their position and role in the universe.
He famously told a reporter, "Psychedelic drugs cause panic and temporary insanity in people who have not taken them."LSD became illegal in 1966.
Brain scans (fMRI's) have shown that the default mode network is turned off in people undergoing psychedelic sessions.
Both dramatically reduce activity in the default mode network.The problem with performing scientific research, is that it is very difficult to perform double-blind studies that have become the foundation of testing for pharmaceuticals.
A psychedelic/therapeutic session is not simply a matter of ingesting a chemical; it is only successful with the proper guidance, and this can be a subjective matter.A single guided psilocybin session is sufficient to remove depression from 80% of cancer patients.
In one sense, this encapsulates the book perfectly: it is an attempt to reorient the reader from the counterculture, 1960s, Timothy Leary-infused legacy of LSD and psilocybin to the scientific and social future of psychedelics.
It may not be of a comparable level to the cognitive expansion made possible by psychedelics, but this book certainly opened my mind to the potentials and pitfalls of this science undergoing its second go-around.
While reading or listening to some nonfiction and scientific journalism can feel like your most dry undergraduate course, Pollan always manages to write in a fashion that is compelling, thoughtful, and mindful of narrative.
Self and Spirit define the opposite ends of a spectrum, but that spectrum needn't reach clear to the heavens to have meaning for us. It can stay right here on earth. When the ego dissolves, so does a bounded conception not only of ourself but of our self-interest. What emerges in its place is invariably a broader, more open-hearted and altruistic – that is, more spiritual – idea of what matters in life. One in which a new sense of connection, or love, however defined, seems to figure prominentl
As a journalist first, Pollan is present in each part of the book – interviewing subjects and describing his own experiences – and every bit of it was interesting to me.Pollan writes that nearly every culture on earth has used psychedelics – the exception being the Inuit, who simply don't appear to have access to the right chemicals in their environment – and with reference to the “Stoned Ape” theory (that prehistoric experimentation with psychedelics might have shocked the brains of early hominids into becoming us; although this theory isn't widely accepted, at any rate, these early visions of “the divine” might explain the persistence of religious belief throughout human civilisations), he makes the case that their use has been widespread throughout time and place.
The book starts with background on the relatively recent resurrection of research into psychedelics after the 1960s federal suppression of it on grounds—I’m serious—of national security.
Yet out of fear and destestation of those experimenting with the drugs in those days, who were young and vehemently anti-war, the findings were suppressed so that, yes, millions might suffer without the alleviation psychedelics would surely have provided in the interim.
This suppression of science is a national disgrace and reason, as if we needed more, to heap further opprobrium on past leaders.Pollan writes about this era of Cold War suppression, but focuses mainly on figures like Bob Jesse, Roland Griffiths and others who have been instrumental in spurring recent research into psychedelics.
What I do know about is how strong painkillers (morphine, fentanyl, buprenorphine, oxycodone etc) can certainly have a big impact on the way your mind works while taking them, so this book intrigued me in that respect.
In "How to Change Your Mind", Michael Pollan aims to discover whether psychedelic drugs can alter your worldview.
When LSD was discovered in the 1940s, it seemed to researchers, scientists and doctors as if the world might be on the cusp of psychological revolution.
Pollan bravely volunteers as a guinea-pig and writes a remarkable history of psychedelics that paints a compelling portrait of this extraordinary world.The narrative is accessible and will appeal to researchers, scientists, doctors and the general public alike.
I read the Pollan essay in the New Yorker about psychedelics and so I picked this up right away. And I'm convinced. I totally want to try this! Wish it wasn't illegal. What was really brilliant about this book is his exploration of the ego and how that leads to so much stuckness and unhappiness. The book is a sober, in-depth account of a radical idea.
Prior to reading this book, I didn't know much about LSD or other psychedelics.
So of course when I saw this book, realising it's something I knew nothing about, I wanted to read it.
Why anyone would willingly take something to hallucinate and be out of control of one's brain is beyond me and yet people do it all the time.
Learning how psychedelics work on the brain (at least as far as we know so far) was incredibly interesting.
Sadly, the rest of the book was only 2 and 3 stars for me.
Remarkable book. I hope this will gain the same prominence that Omnivore's Dilemma did several years ago.
I thought the writing was great but the more I read, the less interested I became in this topic. One description of someone’s trip was fine, by the tenth description I was bored.
They captured my youthful imagination, and slaked my thirst for the numinous, while concurrently providing the foundation for more subtle work later on.Plus they we just plain giggly wiggly fun.I’m still WAY more interested in what good therapy combined with really good meditation instruction and practice can do for a person.
But after reading this book, I’m slightly more open to how (precisely) a psychedelic experience, occurring within a therapeutic context, can jump start, or even rocket boost a process of personal exploration, radical acceptance and spiritual growth in a reasonably stable and sufficiently mature individual.
Come to think of it, they are probably why I was scared to try it.But up until 1966 it was legal and there were 70 serious research programs at prestigious institutions throughout the 50s and early 60s exploring its potential to treat depression, schizophrenia, ease a person’s death journey, and help cure addictions to nicotine and alcohol.
What if we could:➤experience no doubt, know instead of just believe➤experience the very worst of what life can throw at you, including death, and regard it objectively and accept it with equanimity➤become more open at an advanced age when the grooves of mental habit have been etched so deep as to seem inescapable ➤go on a journey that could be among the two or three most profound experiences of your lifeThe author went above and beyond attempting to find some answers for himself and the reader.
Or, if you have experience as a psychonaut, get ready for a broad, expansive review of history, research, and the possibilities for public policy.When LSD, mescaline, psilocybin, and other psychedelic drugs first became known in the 1950s and 1960s, academic and medical researchers explored their potential for relieving depression, addiction, and other mental problems.
Guided psychedelic experiences lead subjects to deep insights.
The potential of psychedelic drugs to change the world for people suffering from depression, existential anxiety attendant to life-threatening disease, and addiction seems settled.
This is probably the most boring book of someone telling about his experience of smoking toads and using psychedelics in general.
I did like the spotlight vs lantern consciousness allegory, which is actually not a Pollan thing, but that's the first time I encounter that.
(By this measure, children are more conscious than adults, rather than less.) While children seldom exhibit sustained periods of spotlight consciousness, adults occasionally experience that “vivid panoramic illumination of the everyday” that lantern consciousness affords us.
To borrow Judson Brewer’s terms, lantern consciousness is expansive, spotlight consciousness narrow, or contracted.

As he says himself, we were too young to be part of Haight Ashbury, The Summer of Love and Woodstock.But I had two older siblings who were on the front end of the Boomer generation and experienced it all.
My older brother was destroyed by drugs, including psychedelics, and died at age 39.
Now that Boomers are older, and staring death in the face, it's not surprising that they're returning to these questions no matter how successful or wealthy they've become.
(The author is a self-described "scientific materialist," looking for more, including a kind of safe passage to death under the influence of psychedelics).
------What is the Murti-Bing?https://www.goodreads.com/author_blog...
this is precisely where psychedelic therapy seems to be operating: on a frontier between spirituality and science that is as provocative as it is uncomfortable. michael pollan is one of those authors who can, with ample research, elucidatory prowess, and a captivating writing style, make nearly any subject wholly fascinating and engaging. so it is with his new book, how to change your mind, wherein he explores the intriguing background of psychedelics (mostly lsd and psilocybin) and the great p
so it is with his new book, how to change your mind, wherein he explores the intriguing background of psychedelics (mostly lsd and psilocybin) and the great promise they show in treating a host of medical and psychological maladies.
psychedelics have had, in this country, a history fraught with political posturing, fear-mongering, and general apprehension, yet, as pollan makes abundantly clear in his book, the attitude towards these remarkable substances is softening (as more studies show their unparalleled promise), with a sea change perhaps just on the horizon.
how to change your mind is an important, timely book, and pollan deftly charts the forefront of modern psychedelic research.
I feel lucky to live in a world where Michael Pollan has now written, sometimes quite beautifully, about tripping.
There is also a side-mention, not explored further, that Europeans have far fewer mystical experiences under the influence of psychedelics than do Americans, which seems like it would bear further exploring, but the topic never recurs.More broadly, all the discussion in the book offers an obvious question—what does the use of psychedelics, and what they appear reveal to the user, say about the nature of reality and of consciousness?
But not once is such a thing ever mentioned, which strongly suggests that psychedelic experiences are purely internal, though I suppose they might be revealing underlying structural truths, even if they do not reveal identifiable higher level or new knowledge.The most interesting elements of the book, though, concern the intersection of religious belief and what is perceived under the influence of these drugs.
And, he also completely won me over with this book.There was a time when psychedelics were a serious medicine under serious study, especially for alcoholics.
Then Timothy Leary came in, decided everybody needed to experience these drugs, acted as if he had discovered the whole field and promoted them in such an attention-grabbing way to where everyone knows something about LSD...and also to the point that the drug become illegal, and study of it dropped to zero in the US, full stop.
In some examples, people had the best parts of their lives, terminally ill, after their experience with psychedelics.
Michael Pollan is a phenomenal writer, and he shines once again with his newest book. He takes a deep dive into the history and science of psychedelics, all while weaving in his own personal narrative. It is an engaging and fascinating read; one that propels the reader on a journey through the re-emergence of this scientific field. For anyone at all interested in the topic, this is probably a must-read. Highly recommended.
Film maker and researcher Michael Benson states that Fred Ordway, a scientific consultant on Kubrick's film, contacted Dr. Walter Pahnke who conducted an LSD experiment known as the Good Friday Study under the direction of Timothy Leary.
Pollan traces a trajectory beginning with comparisons between psychedelic effects and those of mental illnesses like schizophrenia (the psychomimetic model).
Pollan is therefore surprised and encouraged by a renaissance in psychedelic research.Having read two of Pollan's previous books, I was disappointed by HOW TO CHANGE YOUR MIND.
Pollan concludes that his research has led him to an epiphany about his own life.
A very brief history of psychedelics' use through time and a less brief history of research on psychedelics (mostly LSD and psilocybin, less on MDMA and others.) I thought this was the most interesting and best organized part of the book, but it was still fairly bare bones.
I suspect he has subscribed to the Gladwellian formula of "keep the science light and shove in a lot of anecdotes that that support your pet points." The book is a defense for the use of psychedelics, so don't expect objectivity or balance.
Michael Pollan's perspective was particularly attractive to me because I already have a lot of respect for him after reading In Defense of Food and The Omnivores Dilemma.
I think the overall shift in style of the writing reflected the difficulty that arises when writing about psychedelics—their effects are personal and resist logical explanation so well that bending a discussion of them into a scientific and rigid text would be almost impossible.
The book delicately balanced an exploration of known scientific research with a legitimate discussion of mystical experiences, all without falling into a condescending or distrusting tone that would discount the experiences of others.
I was pulled in by the discussions of dissolution of ego, of the nature of consciousness, of entropy, awe, spirituality, by the potential of psychedelics in mental health treatment and the position that they should also be used for the "betterment of the well." The best parts of the books are the sections on Pollan's own experiences with psychedelics and on psychedelics in treatment (though the history of research was also educational for me).
Reading Pollan's descriptions of his trips made me realize that in my youth, I barely tasted the positive potential of these drugs.
Even then there is precious little content about this.
I can not understand how this title relates to the content of this book which time and time again emphasizes the illegality of the drugs and the incredibly limited number of experimental clinical trials with all their [necessary] constraints.
If you are interested in a painfully detailed history of the use of psychedelics (including descriptions of items of clothing worn by individuals who promoted them) and the monotonous recounting of one journalist's personal experience of the nature of consciousness as revealed by these drugs - well then, this books for you.
An eye-opening and readable book about a taboo topic. Author Michael Pollan weeds out the science from the politics and reveals research that's been suppressed for decades. Psychedelic substances have shown huge promise for dealing with addiction, depression and especially depression in terminally ill patients, and research has shown that, contrary to the scary tales we were told in the 70's, it is virtually impossible to overdose on these substances and that, in safely controlled settings, subjects in experiments have reported overwhelmingly positive experiences. Some quite amazing data in here. Worthwhile reading.
Riveting, inspiring, this book opens so many new, exciting perspectives. Hopefully it'll help reverse the stigma on psychedelic substances so they can be used by science to open new doors in our consciousness, something we really ought to do if we wish for a better world. Really excited after reading this, I wish we could all use some LSD as the antidote to our existential angst, depression, fear of death and blindness to the perfection of the natural world which we are destroying. Well done once again Michael Pollen!
