https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/132508.Letty_Fox
In which Stead writes a book about 20 or 30 years ahead of its time and gets banned, neglected and unread for her troubles.
And a wonderfully rich insight into the interior life of a young, intelligent woman in that late 30's living in New York and having lots of the old man-troubles.
Not only did this method of revision involve constant typing: it also explains the appearance of spontaneity and the genuine carelessness in Stead’s writing.
“To clarify her ideas for the novel [Letty Fox], Stead made pages of notes about the condition of women in contemporary society.
Letty Fox mostra come la dipendenza fatale in una vita non sia l'amore, non il denaro, non il sesso, non il lavoro, non lo sport, non la politica.
Quando si deprime si dice "mi suicido" oppure che vorrebbe "non esistere" come Marina Cvetaeva.
Poi come se niente fosse esce di casa e si cerca un amante, e poi un altro, il desiderio sessuale è per Letty Fox una via di scampo, piacevolissima, alla sofferenza.
Amante della bella vita e del denaro ma come mezzo.
So far, this book is wonderful.
***Wow: fucking relentless.
Relentless is the quest for a suitable husband and the money required to win him (or which he owes you after leaving)!
A. That's nature's (and the girls') way of advertising their favorites.' See Letty's telling-off of Cornelius: 'You know love isn't something mystic; it's a bloody real thing, there's nothing realer; and it grows out of all that madness at night, that thing without eyes, but with legs, that fit of convulsions, all that we had--you know what love is.' Etc, etc.
For ways to read this book, see Tim Parks' useful and multifaceted introduction. To which I add that Stead is the last word on the genre of the Complaint Epic, and that Letty anticipates the concerns of contemporary women's commercial fiction by 40-50 years. An incredibly difficult book to read, but worth it for Stead's artistry and ambition.
people talk about how christina stead's great weakness is not knowing what to edit/weed out. and it's true, sure, but i dunno...i kinda like that. it makes her lengthy detailed repetitive books of female domestic and familial experience feel more authentic and less literary, in a way i enjoy. like you're at the kitchen table reading the unexpurgated letters from your batty aunt who doesn't know the meaning of discretion, or something. "fun."
I read a different edition, but whatever. Its a terrific novel, way ahead of its time. Stead is writing a satire of the 'progressive' middle classes, which despite their supposed beliefs are just as obsessed with property as any other middle class.
Like Mary McCarthy's "the group" (new york in the thirties, satirizing the sexual revolution before it happened) but way more cosmopolitan, lurid, and generally wacky. It's worth reading for not only for the sexual misshaps, but also for the sweet, subtle way that Stead voices her inimitable narrator. Why there was not a movie version of this made in the 70's is beyond my grasp.
want to have drinks with Letty. i was surprised by how much i related to her dating experience.
I took so long reading this book because I didn't want it to end. I enjoyed every page. It's one of the few books I could reread and still enjoy just as much as the first time.
“Letty Fox: Her Luck” has become one of my favorite novels: a long, dense, nearly plotless story of a talented and lively and very funny young woman’s life from girlhood in the 1920s to the age of 24 in 1945, a book filled with dozens of characters, all of them very real even if they only appear for a few pages, a book with a voice as unique as the voice of someone you love, someone who only has to call “Hello” from half a block away and you know who it is and all that person’s rich history, one of those books I would gladly have had go on and on without an end, but somehow it ended at just the right place.
Like  Coonardoo , this is a novel I read because I was trying to get more familiar with my own country's literature. Like that book, Letty Fox was written in the first half of the twentieth century by an Australian, Marxist, female writer, and it was also met with outrage in Australia upon publication – Letty Fox was actually banned here for many years for being too frank in its depictions of sex.Aside from that, the books couldn't be any less similar. This book is set in the glitzy cities of Ne
Essentially, Letty Fox moves in that Transatlantic intellectual elite which may profess to be Marxist, but only insofar as it doesn't jeopardise their careers and God forbid they should ever associate with poor people.This may, of course, be one of the times where reading the introduction has influenced my opinion when subsequently reading the book; the introduction is written by a feminist publisher who chose to reprint this in the seventies or eighties because of its compelling depiction of heterosexual relationships, in all their dysfunctional glory.
However, they found that Christina Stead herself was not too keen to be associated with a feminist publishing house, proudly declaring her love for men and insisting it's actually women who are the true parasites in society (even more than the bourgeoisie, apparently…) because so many of them "refuse" to do paid work after marriage.
Letty Fox is a book that stands out on it's own, a book so far ahead of it's time, it's absolute genius, Christina Stead and her writing is fabulous to the core.There's a feeling I got when reading this book similar to it's predecessor, it's as if all the characters, story lines, and descriptions are real as if I'm a part of their lives.
Letty Fox makes a superb narrator and explains things perfectly, with wit, cheekiness, sassiness, humor, theatrics, and pure realness.
As I read this penetrating character study constructed of 517 pages of trivia, banal conversations, epigrams, and thoughts, I thought over and over that this novel resembled more than a little a pointilliste painting.
There is no plot except the life of Letty Fox, a strong young woman whose licentious, impecunious, immature/mature ways stem from her own dysfunctional family background of similar qualities.
I think Stead would say no.) Letty Fox is in love with life, but unlike some of her leftwing friends, she is more realistic.
If you do, you'll find a most interesting novel, like Letty Fox herself, not at all average.
Letty the central character just goes on and on and on, some of it is quite amusing and entertaining, but in the end it got to me and I had to stop
"this lithosphere"
LETTY FOX: HER LUCK. (1946). Christina Stead. ***. I have to admit up front that I only made it half-way through this novel – 300 pages or so. At that point I came to realize that the plot had not advanced even a little from the first pages. Letty, a young girl when we meet her, tells the story of her growing up in a very dysfunctional family. Her mother and father were separated. Her mother was constantly trying to figure out how to get her husband back again, while he was always parrying each
Her mother was constantly trying to figure out how to get her husband back again, while he was always parrying each new effort with a response usually involving more money.
He was happy with his new woman – whoever that happened to be at the time.
Her mother’s definition devolves around the traditional definition of “family,” while her father’s is based on “freedom.” The same dialog goes on between husband and wife for all of the 300 pages, the only difference being that sometimes it takes place in New York, while at other times it takes place in Paris or London.
mentioned here: http://www.thesmartset.com/article/ar...
A moving, deeply-felt novel about some very fucked-up characters. The author's voice is unique and the writing is outstanding; I wish more of her books were in print.
OR a Survey of Heterosexuality in NYC in the 30s and 40s. Ends with a triumphant marriage. Seriously? On the other hand, interesting observations about radicalism of the period.
