https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114187.Chesapeake_Blue
Quick fix doesn't necessarily need to be shallow as well.
I know there are good romantic writers out there, just I haven't had my luck.
And the fourth brother SETH, with his upper DC class girlfriend Drusilla.
And Seth is like - new Jackson Pollock.
And then Roberts tries to be smart as hell, and she starts writing about Seth's paintings.
In Paris you’ll paint Eiffel tower, because you know, c’est la vie.
Because you really have to be a dumbass to like it so much to give it more than 2 stars.
Seth's story.
A beautiful love story!
Seth has grown up and traveled the world as a famous artist.
There he meets a beautiful florist from an influential family.
What is the usual pick up line an artist uses?
"I want to paint you." Of course this leads to love and romps in the studio.
Love little 'Easter eggs.'  There were a few little plot holes, but you'll catch them.
Read past them and just enjoy Nora's encore to the Quinns.
Now, could we have another encore and get Aubrey's story?
It's always sad when you finish reading a book or a series, to say goodbye to characters you fell in love with, characters that become part of you while reading.Each character from the Chesapeake Bay Saga became a part of me, made me want to be part of their amazing family and it's so sad to know Chesapeake Blue was the last book.Chesapeake Blue brings us back to Seth Quinn, the last boy Ray rescued and who Cameron, Ethan and Phillip took care of after Ray died.
I love rereading this one simply for the story (though the romance is good as well).It's been 18 years since the Quinn brothers took Seth in and gave him a home.
All he wants to do is protect his family and the woman who has become such an important part of his life, but it won't be as easy as he hopes.This is such a great book to read because Seth is not just some random character.
He was a featured player in the 3 previous books in the series where you learned about his tragic childhood, how damaged and afraid he was, and how much his life changed because of the love of the Quinns.
Not really a good idea as all books need some sort of epilogue - especially when most things are sorted out, even if it is just 2 more pages about a week later, month later, year later.But I came to love her writing and her stories and will definitely read more books by her.
Loved this one too, but it was a bit weaker than the previous three books in the series, but overall, it was nice addition and it was about time to read about Seth even if it's 20 or so years later.
Seth is now an up-and-coming painter who's making waves in art circles, but his heart, as always, lies with his family in St.Christopher, on the Maryland Shore.
Dru's been hurt before, and her complicated family history doesn't let her open up to people very easily, but as she gets to know Seth and his warm, boisterous family, she slowly loosens up and falls in love.
There is, of course, trouble in Paradise, in the form of Seth's evil mother, Gloria DeLauteur, who has reappeared to blackmail him into giving her money, but in the end, the bonds of family triumph over all evil, and we get our expected, but still heart-warming, HEA.
I remember when I first read the stories of the Quinn brothers.
Seth was still a snot-nosed kid and Nora Roberts hadn’t written his story yet.
I remember how much I wished that she’d tell us his story too and she did.
Since then, I’ve read Chesapeake Blue twice and this is my third re-read.It felt so good to read this book again, to see Seth as an adult.
The Quinns saved him and changed his life, gave him a future, a family.
Overall, I had a blast re-reading this book.Posted on Blog
Definitely the best of the series, but not truly outstanding.
I really wish Roberts had grown past the whole Gloria DeLauter nonsense.
The problem with Gloria in this one that didn't impact the others is that she fundamentally altered Seth as a character.
That she still had power over him weakened him in ways that felt untrue.
I particularly loved that she had Gloria pegged even before she knew who she was.
But one big loss that drags this back into the normal range for the series.A note about Steamy: Normal for Roberts and at the low end of my middle range.
Enjoyable teasing and conversations among family members.THE SERIES:The Chesapeake Bay series includes four books which tell a continuing story about a family.
In the beginning of the first book Ray took in another boy, 10-year-old Seth, who was abused by his mother Gloria.
The fourth book tells the story of Seth, who is grown, returns home and falls in love.
The best parts of the first three books are watching the developing relationships among Seth and the three men and seeing Seth blossom.
I did not enjoy seeing Seth wimp out and pay her blackmail money over fourteen years without telling his family.
Un flechazo a primera vista, una chica que (otra vez) no quiere saber nada de tener relaciones y que por un error del pasado, ha designado al género masculino como insalvable.
Me decepciona saber que por 14 años ha estado hostigando a Seth y sacándole dinero.
La mayor parte del tiempo es como estar con un puercoespín, un puercoespín con diadema."No sé porqué la autora no aprovechó lo hermoso de la relación de Aubrey y Seth y desperdició tinta en intentar vender la minúscula chispa entre ese trozo de hielo desconfiado y el chico que todo lo pinta.
Definitely a keeper - the whole series is.
I loved them all, this one included.
Chesapeake Blue is a truly fitting conclusion to the original trilogy.
The theme of family coming together in love and understanding is just as strong as in the first 3 books.
I loved seeing Cam, Ethan, Phillip and their wives again, plus meeting their kids too.
And Seth is one terrific guy - gorgeous, talented, considerate.
The fact that he survived Gloria and was able to flourish with the Quinns makes him even more loveable.
From the time I first meet him in Sea Swept (1st book in the Quinn Brothers Saga), I fell in love with the lonely, distrustful abused grandson of Ray Quinn, the amazing man, who with his now dead wife, Stella, had adopted Cam, Ethan and Phillip as broken children and with love and care enabling them to become strong and good men.Despite the emotional damage in his childhood, with the love and support from his brothers has grown into a fine man.

overall ok ... ok conclusion to the story, but a bit over the top with the mother blackmailing him, etc... Something was confusing me though - how much time passed between the last book and this one ?! Cam and Anna already have teenagers - so are we to believe that Seth spent 15 years in Europe?!
Really good. Draws you in from the beginning and me deep into it before I knew what I was doing. Good, strong characters, emotions, fun and humor, aggravation, some touching moments, great family and a good HEA. This definitely has me wanting to read the whole series. Gotta love it!
One of the best books I have read by Nora Roberts. I felt like I was in the story as one of the characters. I Recommend this book to anyone who loves Nora.
*Buddy reading with Blacky <333*Review to come
Bizde yayınlanmış bir Nora kitabı bende nasıl olmaz diye düşünerek fuardaki sahaftan görür görmez kapmıştım kitabı. İyi ki de almışım. Polisiye kısmı olmasa da yine beğendiğim güzel bir hikaye oldu. Quinn ailesi bir harika. Tabi ki sevgili epsilon serinin ortasından giriştiği için şimdi bu ailenin diğer erkeklerini okumam gerekecek.
Increíble cómo escribe Nora Roberts. Me apasiona. Esta historia es tan bella y poderosa cómo las anteriores.
Against the backdrop of a small working water town on Maryland's Eastern Shore, the brothers soon realize that his adoption involves speculation of scandal, a hard mother that will not go away, and they must band together to protect their newest family member.The first three books are the original trilogy and tell the story of Cam, Ethan, and Phil adjusting to, accepting, and coming to love Seth as they fight to keep him safe.
Me ha encantado la saga. Cam, Philip,Ethan y Seth son encantadores, cada uno con sus cosas y con lo suyo a su espalda.. me ha gustado muchísimo.. me dan ganas de ir a vivir a la bahía!!!
Loved being back with the Brothers Quinn, seeing where all of them are now, and finally getting Seth's own story.
We met Seth Quinn in book 1, when he was taken off the streets and saved by a virtual stranger, Ray. Ray was known for taking in "strays" - boys on a path towards a dark future - and he'd already adopted three: Cam, Ethan, and Phillip.
Now, after the three previous books following each of the three brothers' love stories and happily ever afters, we fast forward many years to Seth as an adult.
Now a successful artist, Seth is trying to settle into his adult life on the Chesapeake Shore, and when he meets the local florist, Dru, he'd like her to play a part in that future too.
Es un buen cierre para la serie. Me gusta que Seth tenga algo de cada uno de sus hermano. Tanto Dru con Seth entienden las necesidades y las inseguridades del otro y se complementan muy bien. Hubiese preferido que se resolviera de otra forma el tema de Gloria, pero no estuvo mal. Con sus más y sus menos, es entretenido y emotivo. Recomiendo la serie.
Ahhh, Nora...I love her. I love her so much!
4 1/2 stars
Of all the brothers of the Quinn family, Seth is definitely my favorite, especially as we see his childhood in the previous three books, we see a terrified little boy who has been sorely treated in his young life, but then is adopted into the Quinn family and shown the value of family and love.
Now as he returns home Then he meets Drusilla, where a passion and a powerful love ignites between them.
So if you love Nora Roberts than you will definitely fall in love with the Quinn family on Chesepeake Bay!
This is a really good book but to enjoy it you must read the Chesapeake Bay series in orderThe main theme of family, love and understanding is beautifully portray and I can't help wishing I'm part of the Quinns too!We see a lot of Anna and Cam , I love their sarcasm and humour and the unconditional love for every Quinngetting to know Anna,Cam,Ethan,Grace,Phillip and Sybill with their kids made me feel so contentedAubrey turned into such an amazing woman too!
Eighteen years of memories....this book is relatively more fast paced compared to the first three of the seriesThe Chesapeake Bay Saga is a great read for those looking for a touching, understanding, heart warming , loving family theme series<3
Nora Robert's cont-romances are just too good to be true.
This was the perfect ending for an amazing series, I just couldn't have asked for more.
Be ready to read a series with amazing characters, a lot of terrific values and some mixed feelings.
A touch of the paranormal world is also on it so we wont miss the pnr-romance genre so much.
there better be more books of this genre I still haven't read from this author or I will be royally pissed.
Thanks NR for this wonderful series, I will read it again and again for years to come.
4.5 Estrellas. Me encanta Seth y en lo que se ha convertido pese al horror que pasó de niños. Me encanta esa pasión que pone cuando pinta y me gusta mucho su relación con Dru (aunque tengo que decir que me decepcionó que no acabara con Aubrey, la verdad es que me ha gustado mucho como han tratado ese tema) Me gusta muchísimo la relación de esta familia, y me ha dejado un muy buen sabor de boca. Genial Serie.
