https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60229.Halo
it describes my training and how i become famous and brave.
You feel their passion, you want them to win, and are pained by their loss.Instead, it reminded me of Orson Scott Card's "Ender's Game" and the idea of how you *create*, rather than recruit, elite soldiers.
I bought Halo 3 and barely played it because of the Halo book trilogy!To wrap up, the book also takes place before the events in the Halo video game and explains the origins of the character you play.
The game made a lot more sense after reading this book.
You will be a Spartan when this is over.Disclaimer: I played Halo 1 before reading this series which may have helped me develop a relationship with the general story and characters.
So, in other words, it was nice knowing ya’ll – I’ll see you in 20ish years.I played the original Halo trilogy years ago, and distinctly remember reading the first three Halo novels that were published: “Halo: The Fall of Reach,” “Halo: The Flood,” and “Halo: First Strike.” Rereading “The Fall of Reach” almost 15 years later, I was impressed by just how well Eric Nylund sets up not only the events of the video game, but also the Halo universe at large: from the origins of the mankind’s war with the Covenant, to the creation of the Spartan program, to developing Master Chief into a real and distinct character, to laying out all of the ins and outs of Slipstream and humanity’s interstellar journeying…there’s a lot of ground that Nylund covers here, and he somehow does it all in a way that’s genuinely entertaining.
I was given this book several years ago and never got around to reading them, until I got my hands on the audio book version!
The author does a great job describing Master Chief and getting the readers following his development as a strong, complex character.This book is not a fun, light hearted read either.
Master Chief experiences some terrible things and in the end, all he has is his orders and missions that keep him focused and determined.
I'm not much of a Sci-fi guy or a fantasy guy either, but I have to admit, this book was unlike any sci-fi book I have read.
I haven't played the Halo games as I don't own an XBox, although I did dip into Combat Evolved at some stage (the one Halo that came out on PC).
This book is based on a video game franchise, yes, and is likely aimed at a younger market or niche market.
This is the kind of book that is likely to turn younger readers onto reading, especially if they've played the game, and how can that be a bad thing?The book itself is extremely readable.
Like I said, I'm not a Halo-player and yet I really enjoyed this novel.
If you're a fan of the game, this is required reading.
Fans will buy them, people that heard of the movies will buy them as well out of curiosity and here we go into that black hole of bad literature helped along by big names.I had initially expected 'Halo - The fall of Reach' to be THAT book that actually shows there's some point in picking up such a book for other reasons rather than the fact that you've loved the game.High and unfair expectations one might say.
It'll provide grounds to built upon.The pros:- good idea;- fun to read space battles;The cons:- poor execution;- bad, bi dimensional characters;- forced attempt to tie into the game that it prequels;- bad action scenes.I won't be fair about this, I know.
Also available on the WondrousBooks blog. *** 1.5 stars ***Well... at least I tried.I have a friend who is a big Halo: The Fall of Reach fan and in his attempt to get me interested in the story, he convinced me to give it a shot.I really, really tried to like the story, the book, the writing... I couldn't.Halo: The Fall of Reach to me was poorly written and rather dreary, shallow and messy. Many events came to be in the book, but the story moved so little in terms of world-building. Yes, of cou
at least I tried.I have a friend who is a big Halo: The Fall of Reach fan and in his attempt to get me interested in the story, he convinced me to give it a shot.I really, really tried to like the story, the book, the writing...
Many events came to be in the book, but the story moved so little in terms of world-building.
Yes, of course there were big events, but most of them were battles between the Covenant vs Deus ex machina.
In general I just couldn't get engaged in the story.
He is essentially kidnapped and forced by a world-spanning government (the UN) to become a killing machine, one specifically aimed at human beings who are seeking their own autonomy through resisting UN's rule.
While Nylund's account avoids explicit moral judgment regarding the insurrectionists, one can only imagine Master Chief as the moral equivalent of Darth Vader hunting down rebels or "the Operative" hunting down River Tam & the crew of Serenity.Thankfully for the franchise, all this become moot when humanity is threated by the alien Covenant and the Evil Empire -- I mean, United Nations -- get's to serendipitously turn it's killing machines on the alien invaders.
Regardless, I decided to take the leap into space and join the Master Chief and his team of Spartan badasses on their mission to rid the universe of the Covenant threat.HALO: The Fall of Reach is the first book in the series and follows the path of John as he moves through the ranks eventually becoming the famed Master Chief.
I’m pleased to report I was wrong and whilst there are certainly a few chapters dedicated to the training, I felt they didn’t drag.HALO: The Fall of Reach feels like but a drip in the ocean and the scope is there to expand throughout this universe indefinitely.
This book will easily please casual sci-fi readers with its full-throttle action scenes and engaging characters.
Also, given this is a prequel to the games, the author was kind of stuck writing within certain parameters, meaning that he had to conform to the series' history/locations, and he has to ensure his writing was accessible to everyone - that leaves little room for experimentation with regards to prose or ideological concerns.
The characters read like typical action-movie stars: they are likable and their motives are very black and white.
Overall though, I really enjoyed this novel, and I really hope the series doesn't crash and burn like those Star Wars Clone Troopers novels I read a few months ago.
This is the prequel to the game Halo, which involves a cybernetically enhanced super-soldier battling aliens over possession of a massive ring in space built by a long-dead species.
The plot is pretty thin and goes through some major contortions to get all the major characters where they need to be to begin the game.
The book nicely fills in some plot points and background for the game.
Bottom line: if you played and liked the game, you'll probably enjoy the book.
If you haven't played the game, you could give it a pass.
No le doy mas porque la escritura es muy simple (despues de todo, pobre Eric, tuvo que escribirlo en siete semanas de mierda) pero lo disfrute muchisimo y fue muy interesante conocer esos detalles del universo que no se encuentran en los juegos. Muy bueno n.n
A wonderful background on how the SPARTAN's were created.
Determined to defend their home, the Spartans fight a desperate holding action against a foe with far more advanced technology.Despite the dark backstory, which helps it stand out from the rest, Halo: The Fall of Reach is a really entertaining action novel as well as uplifting.
I liked Doctor Halsey a lot despite the fact she's a kidnapper, a mad scientist, and quite possibly crazy.The events of the books were so entertaining they've been adapted twice with Halo: The Fall of Reach as a CGI movie I first saw on netflix as well as a somewhat looser adaptation of the novel's second half in the Halo: Reach video game.
I don't know nothing about Halo I've watched hubby play the game but I can't really tell what it was about besides fighting, shooting lol.So reading this with him going to be interesting.
Even though I have a feeling I'm be more reading than he is lol.Review: 2.5 🌟Spartans made to be able to fight the unfightable "not a word" but made to fight started as little kids a doctor took the kids and got them trained and put through a lot of tests.Aliens destroying planets.
Lots of military alien fighting just isn't for me without a background story to fall and connect with the characters.
A great introduction to the HALO universe. Review soon.
I have never played the game but I liked the story enough. Also it is well written
Having gotten used to reading very deep, character driven series like Game of Thrones, it was an abrupt switch to read a novel in which character development and differentiation took a bit of a back seat to the action.
That isn't the author's fault, per se, but I would be lying if I didn't say I wanted some depth added.That said, God bless this guy, he wrote this book in under two months so that its release could roughly coincide with the original release of the first Halo videogame, and he wrote the book within a universe that was still being developed as he wrote it.
Like many such stories, there is a meta-awareness that the author isn't about to kill every main character in a gun blaze, so the stakes feel low.
Halo, The Fall of the Reach by Eric Nylund Summary, The Fall of Reach is a prequel telling the story of humanity's war against a technologically superior race called the Covenant, a mysterious race on a religious crusade to destroy all of humanity.
The story focuses on the hero John and his fellow Spartans Sam, and Kelly enhanced human beings bred as soldiers for humanity's military and the best chance the humans have for victory in the losing war against the covenant.
Eric Nylund actual job is as a writer for Microsoft Game Studios.
Originally I thought the book was going to be some kind of, mash up of random killing and plain old combat like the games can be.
It is amazing how much actual story line and background they add to the rest of the books/games with just the one book!
They may be scientific engineered military weapons, but they are still people after all.
All in all the story was a lot better than I thought, and it got better as I continued, it wasn't rushed, it wasn't jumpy, and that is what makes it one of the best books I've ever read.
Gameplay may be fun, but reading about the actual story completes the game.Fall of Reach is a prequel to the original Halo: Combat Evolved story and gives amazing insight on how John 117 came to be.
He definitely has more of a personality in the book, so it was good to actually see that.As the title of the book indicates, this story goes into detail about the events leading up to when The Pillar of Autumn jumped into slipspace and escaped literal destruction from the devastation of Reach.
I read this book about 6 years ago, but with the recent announcement of Halo: Reach, I wanted to go through the story again.
I was taken away immediate and noticed one of the commentors said that if you like this trailer, you definitely have to read the book The Fall of Reach by Eric Nylund.The only experience I've had with Halo so far was a few minutes watching my friend play Halo 2 at his place, and so had doubts of whether I will understand or enjoy the story.
In the end I decided to give it a try due to strong user feedbacks and I am glad to say that it was a worthwhile decision.Nylund paints a thorough and vivid background of the Halo universe; from the beginnings of Master Chief as a child to his training and his battles with the Covenant.
This book is based on a video game...and it's pretty good.
But these books (there is a series based on the game) are fun, action packed and really pretty well written.We open with the "founding of" or "recruiting of" the Spartans.
"Of course" our hero is "Master Chief" (anyone who's played the game would know that of course).
At the beginning of the book we know little (or nothing) about "The Covenant".
These are our "bad guys" and they'd rather destroy a planet than leave it in human hands!So, enjoy, read, soak up all the wonderful mindless violence.
Absolutely loved it.I'm such a fan of the games, and having that extra knowledge of everything made it a lot easier for me to read.
I'm no army nut and I don't know a lot about gun power and different types of ships or army tactics - but having played all the halo games for years made it so much simpler to understand everything that was going on.I love that I now have a further in-depth backstory to refer to for a lot of the characters.Definitely recommend it for Halo fans wanting to engage more in the Halo universe!
I was very curious about reading this book because I am a huge fan of the games. I thought it was a good book and does a great job of explaining where Master Chief (the game's main character) comes from. I loved that part. But of course there is a lot of war going on in the book and I didn't enjoy that. It is my first war novel and I'll admit that is not something I enjoy reading. I won't continue the series. I also wish it had better cover art. I mean it looks like a cartoon!http://angelasanxiouslife.blogspot.co...

Dr. Halsey and Lt. Jacob Keyes arrive at a terraformed planet to visit a 6-year old child named John.
During the visit, Halsey explains to Keyes her intentions with the boy, and around 149 other children because of a rare genetic marker they all have, which makes suitable for a program called SPARTAN-II.
SPARTAN-II is a secret program with the intent to create super soldiers to quell rebellions.
Mendez, the commander of the spartans, soon leaves the spartans to train the next generation of super soldiers as John and his fellow Spartan-II's face the covenant for the first time.
I thought this book was ok.
I thought the storyline was actually very interesting.
Then about halfway through I lost interest.
Also it contained a lot of military lingo that I'm just not familiar with so that lost my attention as well.
John talks about having been picked to be a Spartan 25 years ago, which occurred in 2517, so it seems 2542 would be correct.
I will say towards the end it gets back to John and the rest of the Spartans and that was better.
The book tells how the Spartans will not surrender but will die to the last man standing.
Fall of Reach talks about only one of the Spartans making it off the planet the rest die.
This book exceeded expectations because it was action packed but also has a fantastic storyline line that fits perfectly with the rest of the series.
I recommend this book to people who like action stories or people who have played the videogames of the series.
This book has tons of chapter about the war and fits perfectly with the games making the story complete.
What some expect is an extremely bland read such as “He kills a grunt and fires at an elite.” Instead, they get an extremely descriptive narrative, along with the backstory to the Halo Saga’s main protagonist, the Master Chief, starting with what he was as a child and what he grew up to be.Halo; The Fall of Reach is a wonderful book for people who love the deep lore of video game story lines.
Halo; The Fall of Reach is a wonderful story and is a rather easy read, if you like reading long books that is.
