https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40189.A_Year_in_Provence
Once you do this everyone who has ever vaguely heard your name and Provence together in the same sentence will attempt to visit whilst you are having a hell of a time fixing the charming antiquated house and bicycling into town.
But give it a year or so before you decide to go home- at the very least, wait until you have managed to have your grapes harvested by the guy that works your vines-you've got to have your own wine to drink with your breads and cheeses to give you the strength to go on.
I read a couple of reviews on goodreads for this book and had to laugh at some of those who felt the book was whiney and written by a rich guy who could afford a super farmhouse with a pool no less!
One review said that Mayle went back to England to live.
Peter and his wife have left behind their lives in England to move to Provence, buy a farmhouse and settle in to a slower pace of life.
This part in particular reminded me of the time we bought a “fixer-upper” right on the beach in a beautiful town in Chile, and went through so many similar situations with repairmen and guests.
The next best thing to living in France, is to read this book. Loved it!It is the first book in this genre which provided a complete picture of life in a rural French town by two Brits moving there.
This it turns out wasn't quite true of Mayle who had made his packet of money in advertising in New York, but this book became emblematic of the aspiration of a generation - to sell up, move to France and enjoy the food and drink.This book established itself as the basic and apparently near infinitely repeatable model for books and tv series of metropolitan Englishman heads to foreign country (or non-metropolitan part of Britain) buys old building which is potentially bucolic, spends a year getting it repaired while getting to know the locals, who are amusingly eccentric with delightful physical or sartorial quirks.Perhaps in a nod to Mayle's background in advertising the book is shorter than typical, minus the illustrations maybe under 190 pages while I guess the typical book of this genre is more in the region of 240 pages.
It’s sad to think that there are probably dozens of great books about people who have moved to France that were rejected by publishers so they could take this book, which is completely devoid of insights, and shove it down our throats.
I think most people who read this book didn’t need much more than that.
Instead of a book about an over-privileged douche bag paying people to fix up an old house I’d much rather read a memoir of someone who moved to France and actually had to work for a living.
I've read quite a few negative reviews of this book, many of them focusing on the author's presumption in being able to afford a home in Provence and the reviewers' consequent inability to "relate" to him.
Would it be a good basis for discussion in a book group?
But the author's dry wit, talent for understatement, and occasional eloquence painted an interesting picture of life in Provence, with characters that were by turn amusing, infuriating, puzzling, and human.
This book did a great job of carrying me away from Michigan into a place I've never been and experiences I'll likely never have.
Mayle mentions in passing, in an almost disparaging way, people of affluence buying up property in Southern France.
Mayle is, after all, a wealthy writer from England who is able to purchase a two century old stone house with a stone swimming pool on land that contains a vineyard, a cherry orchard, and other agricultural acreage all tended by a local farmer (the tradition being that the landowner purchases the seed/vines while the farmer does the work.
It made me wonder what the locals really thought of Mayle and his wife.The book is engagingly written and funny in parts; filled with memorable characters.
I found this book walking to the B train this morning.
Don't judge me to harshly for my foray into escapism, it makes the morning commute go fast.
So I've finished it, and although it had its moments where I chuckled a bit, I really didn't find it to be the incredible, evocative travel writing that it had been cracked up to be.
Now, don't get me wrong, I'm always up for a good renovation story, but Peter Mayle's mind was so distracted with getting his home perfected, that the establishment of place (which is so key to travel writing) suffered for it.
With stiff upper lip and wry observation sprinkled with warm affection, Englishman Peter Mayle embraces a cadre of colorful characters inhabiting the warmer south of France in this memoir documenting his first year as a new permanent resident relocated from Britain to the Lubéron region of Provence.A Year In Provence is suitably divided into twelve chapters, each devoted to one month, January through December, staging the progress of renovations on Peter and Madame’s newly purchased two hundred year old home.
Shoulders would be shrugged and time would pass by.”The author has a special penchant for observing human nature and describing it both with humor and heart.
But frankly, once you've read David Sedaris on French villagers, Peter Mayle is just never going to stack up.The book does contain the obligatory shout-outs to French paperwork and the way business is conducted there, as well as copious descriptions of food and wine, so it hits all the right marks, and I considered giving it an extra star (3 total) in recognition of the fact that I read it about 25 years too late.
His ridiculing the less well-off, even if all in good fun, rubbed me the wrong way, so the extra star came right back off.
4 Stars - Fantastic book, would absolutely recommend it.There's really nothing I don't like about this book.
Peter Mayle, the author, writes in a charming book that, in my opinion makes the people of Provence endearing.
As an American, we often hear (or rather we're aware of the stereotype) how stuck-up, abrasive the French are.
I spent a significant amount of time living in a village, well more like a town, in the north of Moldova.
Of course a former Soviet, Eastern European country is quite different than France but I was struck by how many similarities there are.
Thirty years ago it kicked off a new type of travel book that showed the reader what it would be like to live in an area, not just visit it.Honestly, I expected much more from the book.
The last part of the book showed more kindness toward the country folks, but only by declaring that the expats were now like them, and the author now wanted us to laugh at the visiting English boors.The book was more a series of unconnected events depicting rural life rather than any real exploration of the lives and personalities of the people.The narrator did a decent job.
Such a fabulous book. If you've never read a book by Peter Mayle I'd really recommend that you do. I've enjoyed all of his books...some of them several times.
2.5 stars, ok +. I'll give the next two a go!
Going back to Peter Mayle's A Year in Provence was like going back to an old friend's house, but I've never been so hungry in my life as the two times I've read this book.::: The Dream :::Mayle and his wife live out a dream come true, dropping everything, selling their home, and moving full-time to Provence, a region of France generally known to span from the Alps to the Rhône River, with the Côte d'Azur in the southern section.
One of those beautiful, descriptive memoirs that make me want to sell everything I own for a house in France (or Italy) and a life of tranquility and luxurious food. Only slightly more wordy review: http://jenn.booklikes.com/post/123517...
I admire a man who can sketch a portrait in a sentence, like this bit describing his uncle, for example: "'Puke in private, dear boy,' he used to say."One of the other things in the plus column is that despite the fact that he describes over half a dozen different meals, he doesn't go into great detail about the actual food.
It doesn't over-romanticise it, but it's clearly relaxing and lovely and healthy and all those good things.I think I am going to read the sequel in case some of the same people appear in it too.
"Puke in private, dear boy."p.124: BENNETT!
This book tells about their experiences living in Provence, from the colorful locals to the excellent food to the workmen who come and go like forces of nature.This book had me ready to go on vacation in Provence.
Not exactly the appropriate place for that, but luckily I was tucked away in my little corner, and I don't think anybody noticed.
I hope.Another of my favorite parts was the translation of the French person's body language.
I'm sure it's different, but I hope this gives me a place to start in translating my Cuban father-in-laws body language.
My friend had read his book prior to arranging the trip and as expected the familiarity was a great starting point.
An old graveyard, picking apples in an ignored field, finding treasures along the road and even a colorful local or two, the week was up and we had to move on.
On the plane ride home I read Mayle's take.
I did not encounter home upkeep issues which played such a constant and mainly humorous part of the book and the colorful and rather broadly drawn locals were simply business like and charming in my real like experience.
I've been cleaning out the bookshelves and found A YEAR IN PROVENCE. I know I read this book when it was first published and remembered enjoying Mayle's chronicles of the year he and his wife moved to Provence. I thought it was the perfect weekend read and I was correct! I enjoyed visiting Provence again. There is a certain rhythm to life in Provence. Mayle's sketches of his neighbors, laborers, markets and restaurants; the customs of the country and the pleasure and frustrations of home ownership were all entertaining. Food, food and more food! A fun and delightful re-read.
The idea for this book was borrowed from Green Acres. Mayle loves living in the country but immediately needs to update his house in an effort to make it more familiar. Wow, look at the crazy locals, they carry guns and use dogs to hunt. Contractors don't meet their deadlines. People take three hours for lunch. Table grapes are picked by hand (who knew.)Mayle eventually comes to love living in Provence and, without irony, complains about others moving to the area and spoiling the atmosphere.Good writing makes this book tolerable, but the hipster attitude is difficult to tolerate.
Not as funny as he thinks he is. Goes on and on--starry-eyed Anglo-Saxon loose in flinty Province, kept afloat by uncontrollable electricians and incompetent plumbers. And, ultimately, by profits from this best-seller.Major result of publication, and sequel, has been increase in prices in Auberges and -- worse yet -- doubling the price of nearby Michelin 1, 2 and 3 star restaurants (L'Auberge Procençale; La Bonne Étape: Le Dispason; Méo).
Now in my 30s, with a new liking for books about moving to the country and doing up an old house, I wanted to find out what this object of so many jokes was really like.And, much as I love it when I genuinely disagree with haterz, I can kind of see the satirists' point.There is, nevertheless, much to like about this book.
In other books of this ilk, we see the authors making friends with local people, becoming part of the place socially as well as materially.
Mayle gets to know people, yes, but he talks about them with a detachment that is subtly condescending.
More importantly though, he has a fondness for his subject matter and a humorous delivery that will at times make you smile and at other times make you roar with laughter.The book is part travelogue and part love letter to Provence that will make you wish with every fiber of your being that you could find a similar Provençal farm house with land growing grape vines and fruit trees and shuck this rat race for the tranquil life described by Mr. Mayle.If you haven't read this book, get a copy from your favorite online or local bookstore.
"Год в Провансе" - это потрясающе светлая, очаровательная и смешная книга.
Безумно понравится главный герой, от чьего лица видеться повествование, я не переставала восхищаться тем, как он подмечал разные мелочи, как запоминал то, что ему рассказывали и как использовал эти знания на практики.Еще не могу не отметить тот факт, что книга впервые была издана в 1989 году, но у истории совершенно нет временных рамок, читая ее, легко представить, что в такое приключение попали люди живущие и в 2014-15 гг.
Если вы любите поесть, это книгу не стоит читать без бутерброда, шоколадки или еще какого-нибудь снэка.
Then I started writing novels that take place at least partially in Paris, and so I've visited a few times for research, and another couple of times on book tour.
So I've been to Paris about 10 times in the past decade, and have seen plenty of other beautiful parts of France--the Dordogne and the Lot, Bordeaux and the Loire, the Haut Savoie and the Pyrenees--but never Provence.
A YEAR IN PROVENCE was a commercial phenomenon when I started working in the publishing business in the early 90s, but it seemed like exactly the sort of sentimental, romanticized fluff that I didn't want any part of.
I read right this before our visit to Provence, which has turned out to be one of my favorite places on earth.
I was quite excited to read this since I’d always heard such great stuff about it.
Most of the stories were about renovating the author’s home in Provence and various dinner parties.
Some of my favorite quotes:“The French are as passionate about food as other nationalities are about sport and politics."“We remembered being told that the French spend as much of their income on their stomachs as the English do on their cars and stereo systems, and we could easily believe it.”
My mother just sold her house and is emptying the bookshelves; I knew my parents had loved this book from way back when, and we're all big Provence fans (I mean, just look at my name), so I thought I'd salvage this book and its sequel from the little free library. Sadly, it was only okay. Not much happens, and I didn't find it charming enough? If that makes any sense? Nothing bad, and it was a short read (each chapter pretty much exactly my commute's length!) so no harm done, but yeah.
Կարդալուց հետո ուզում ես գնալ ու որոշ ժամանակ փոքրիկ ֆրանսիական գյուղում ապրել։ Լի էր տաքուկ, պուպուշ ու ծիծաղելի պատմություններով։ Միակ բանը, որ դուրս չեկավ այն էր, որ չափից դուրս երկար էր նման գործի համար։ Ինչ-որ պահի դարձավ բավականին անհետաքրքիր ու դժվար ընթեռնելի։
Peter Mayle duce o viaţă frumoasă şi calmă. Sunt fericit că mai există încă oameni care se bucură din lucruri mărunte.  Mai vreau să vă zic ceva: Vreau să mă mut în Provence!
