https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1706646.A_Time_of_Changes
Set in the distant future, on a planet inhabited by humans for thousands of years, but still with the knowledge of far off earth as an anachronistic home, we follow the life of Kenal, second son of a king in a strictly primogeniture hierarchy.
Here is where Silverberg gets you, the psychological, sociological setting where people are so ingrained in the idea that they cannot express individuality that the words, “I love you” are criminal.
Kenal discovers a drug (a lot like cocaine – or ecstasy), scratched from a feral jungle people in the southern continent (hmmmm) that he becomes addicted to and which ruins his life among this society.
At the very first, I thought it was going to be an alien-Odyssey, a SF treatment of the greek legend, with just a hint of something truly interesting, culturally, in that the entire race, or nearly the entire race, is devoted to self-abnegation.Imagine, then, instead of relying on the world-building adventure that it began with, it turned into a very distinctive novel of the drug culture that reflects 1971 perfectly, changing Ulysses into Timothy Leary, and instead of being a Lotus Eater, he's become an LSD-like proponent of a drug that allows limited telepathy.And then the cultural cool-bit now comes to the fore as the full and major plot point, because it is considered evil to say "I", and it's even more evil to say "I love you." How much worse is it when you can see right into the heart and mind of someone else who takes the drug with you?
He has Hugo and Nebula Awards up the wazoo but is relatively unknown compared to the giants of the genre like Asimov, Clarke, and Heinlein, IMHO he belongs up there with them in term of accolades.A Time of Changes is one of his best novels if his Goodreads page is anything to go by.
That said A Time of Changes is indeed an extremely good and unusual book.
If you enjoy imagining how our society may operating under very different sets of rules A Time of Changes is endlessly fascinating.
As usual, Silverberg delves into a complex issue with realistic characters & manages to keep them distant enough that I never manage to care about them.
This has an interesting premise, a belief system of self-containment that our main character eventually fights.
He's a great editor & a technically accomplished author, but I rarely connect with his characters.
That made his books a slog when I was younger.
My library has a few other books by him, but I doubt I'll bother any time soon.
Like Frank Herbert's books, our interests rarely overlap.
The idea of using drugs to break down the artificial barriers of society and the mind is a vintage 1960s/1970s theme.In surprising ways, this book resembled Evgeny Zamyatin’s We (1924) and Ayn Rand’s Anthem (1938) since it depicted a repressive society that demonizes the individual, venerates the group, and suppresses private feelings.
This is similar to Kinnall Darival’s story, the second son of a septarch who must go into exile and disguise himself for political reasons at first, and later because he tries to spread the seditious new religion of self-discovery.
The planet's population lives by the "Covenant" whose most notable characteristic is the complete and utter denial of "self." Words like "I" and "me" are obscenities and their use is a crime (known as self-bearing).
Kinnall, through the use of a new drug finds that he is able to link telepathically with others and share their thoughts and feelings.
This "sharing" leads Kinnall to revolt against the oppressive culture.
The novel is presented in the style of an autobiography, written by Kinnall while he awaits impending capture and imprisonment for his cultural crimes.
Nije loša, iako malčice zamorna.
Fino zamišljen svijet i politički ustroj.
(Npr. ne smiješ o sebi govoriti u prvom licu).
Orginalna ideja.
Silverbergova kritika na Zemljane i opijate jer jasna kao dan.
Otvoren kraj je fino zamišljen, ali ipak romanu fali ono nešto.
Osvojio je Nebulu, bio nominiran za Hugo i Locus, vjerojatno zbog te orginalnosti.
Što se stila tiče, ovo je malčice drugačiji Silverberg od onoga na kojega smo naviknula, ali i dalje tečan, jasan i vrlo vrlo jednostavan.
Ne skrivam da volim Robertovo pisanje i ranije i kasnije radove.
Uglavnom, roman je fina zabava, dobra je radnja, no nije ona da te raspameti.
Karin Boye's depiction of a "sharing" drug in 1940's Kallocain is far more nuanced; for that matter, Robert Heinlein's exploration of the counterculture in Stranger in a Strange Land (published ten years before A Time of Changes) is far more challenging.In short, if I can be forgiven for collapsing my review into LOLcat speech, I see what Silverberg's doing there, but he's doing it wrong.
When settlers first colonized Borthan, they set up a society and a religion called "The Covenant" that makes "self-bearing" into a taboo.
So he runs from his homeland, in order that his brother might not think him a threat to his throne.(view spoiler)[While in his self-exile, Kinall meets a man from Earth, who tempts him with a consciousness-raising drug.
Kinall resolves to bring this drug to the masses, to allow everyone to share their minds with each other.
(hide spoiler)]This book was first published in 1971, when hallucinogenic drugs were becoming mainstream and self-discovery and cultural freedom were the rage.
Toată lumea se referă la sine folosind persoana a 3-a, un soi de ștergere a individualității ca prim pas pentru anularea sinelui orgolios și poate păcătos.Deși viața nu e așa dură cum am credea cu Kinnall, întâlnirea cu pământeanul Schweiz și descoperirea unui drog care leagă două suflete între ele, aruncă întreg sistemul de credințe în aer și-l transformă pe fiul fostului septarh în preot al unei erezii majore.
Evident, nimic bun nu se anunță pentru viitorul personajului nostru.Un roman ingenios, deși plasat într-un context istoric cu multe intrigi de curte, dar care reușește în puține pagini să spună o poveste coerentă care cred că astăzi, dacă ar fi fost scrisă, ar fi ocupat multe sute de pagini și poate mai multe volume.
This book is far, far too preoccupied with its leading man's premature ejaculation.The repetitive fact that he puts his penis in many willing receptacle women - but never sticks it in the one woman he truly lusts after - really distracted me from the story where he learns to bare his soul...
............Guys, he gets high on a drug and it changes his life.The End.In case you're wondering, (view spoiler)[Kinnall does finally learn to control his ejaculations during sex, for a bit of orgasmic love with a prostitute, once he experiences mind-mingling with other human beings.
I know we were all dying for that bit of closure.
(hide spoiler)]
"A Time of Changes" takes the form of a memoir written by the fugitive prince Kinnall Darival, who pens his story in the desertlike Burnt Lowlands of the planet Borthan, at least 1,000 years from today.
"A Time of Changes" is a beautifully written book, and as it turns out, Kinnall Darival is almost as good a writer as Silverberg himself (LOL!).
'A Time of Changes' is classic Robert Silverburg of the sort that he rightly recieves acclaim for, but it suffers in my opinion from the fact that Silverburg makes no attempt at all to really maintain the fantastic conceit which is at the heart of the story.
But Silverburg makes no real sustained attempt to write in this mode, nor does he offer us a real window into the thoughts of someone who has, by the standards of the world, properly lived in such self-denial.
Whenever maintaining the conceit is difficult in the narrative, Silverburg simply drops it and so you never quite feel the setting lives anywhere other than in the story.
Storyline: 2/5Characters: 2/5Writing Style: 2/5World: 1/5This is my fifth Robert Silverberg book, and it reaffirmed for me what I regard as his most distinctive quality: the wide divide between potential and execution.
In his heyday Silverberg was reportedly writing 250,000 a words a month, and his books show it.
In the introduction to this one, Silverberg comments how he struggled for a week over how to subvert grammar to give his characters and civilization their alien identity.
The experiences of this rebel, we are told, cannot be expressed in words; we must simply believe Silverberg that they are truly shocking.
An excellently written novel by Silverberg. It is written in the form of a memoir by one who has gone into hiding after taking on a mission to change the ways of his world by freeing its citizens of the covenants constraint of the forbidden practice of acknowledgment of one's self. Had Silverberg come up with this idea and attempted this in the 1950's, it might have a pulpier title like, "The Man Who Dared Say "I". I'm glad the idea struck him twenty years later.
In A Time of Changes, Kinnall of Salla speaks in the same rather smug and self-centered voice throughout, so we get less of a sense of the wrenching changes that must have taken place for him before he could write "I mean to tell you all about myself" on the first page of his memoir.The second noticeable thing is the way that the planet's cultures look so much like those of...
As an artifact of a time of changes, Silverberg's novel still holds interest.
This is a brilliant piece of thoughtful science fiction.
As has been said elsewhere, this is science fiction that is really dealing with the times in which the book was written.
The story takes place in a far future where refering to one's self in the first person or sharing one's innermost thoughts is largely banned.
In many ways the book seems a commentary on the America of the 1950's and how the social and personal revolutions of the 1960's changed the previous insular and traditional thinking and experiences of the times.
Gripping on-the-run memoir of an alien from a repressed culture seeking communal enlightenment via drugs. Hippie hallmarks of sex and psychedelics, but aged well.
Silverberg's prose is peak storybook-formal here, and he packs an insane amount of worldbuilding, story, and character development into a book that, by modern standards, is relatively short and dense.
Still, the second act meanders somewhat, and the choice of protagonist doesn't quite seem to gel with the story's deeper currents.
Nevertheless, when the themes and characters and story are all collimated this is a surprisingly clear and stark exploration of human nature (not to mention the 1970s LSD wave) that provides the reader with balanced and insightful perspectives that may even change minds.
Recommended for literary, sf, New Wave, and, obviously, Silverberg fans.
B+. Read during my science fiction period where I endeavored to read all Hugo, Nebula & PK Dickawards.
I have a feeling this book will divide people into two camps: 1) Those who don't understand what the drug is about and 2) Those who have sampled psychotropic compounds in life.
For those with no experience in this realm, the book feels a bit like the 1960's countercultural moment and the revolutionary quality of the drug may be lost on them, and with it the heavy criticism aimed at contemporary Western society.
You may know what it is like to transcend the boundaries of your skull, to feel the visceral, euphoric love of life and your fellow human.
A Time of Change is told as the memoir of Lord Kinnall Darival, exiled prince of Salla who has come to know the self.
But there are those who do not tolerate anyone changing the status quo, and Kinnall’s message of love and peace comes to a world that has long buried its emotions in favor of distance.At its core, the novel asks the loaded question “What is self?” in a similar vein to Philip K.
Kinnall himself comes across as always confused by his world’s rigid social standings and distanced lack of emotions, going through its motions but failing to grasp its meaning, always questioning its purpose.
This suppression of the self is so extreme that the words "I" and "me" have become obscenities and the greatest sin/crime is "self-baring."Recognizing, I suppose, that people have to be able to talk to someone the Covenant provides two outlets, one religious and one secular.
The religious outlet are the Drainers, to whom one can go for something like confession, while the secular outlet takes the form of bondsisters and bondbrothers (everyone has one of each).
'I am Kinnall Darival and I mean to tell you all about myself.'That might not seem like such a momentous opening to a memoir, but if you were a citizen of Borthan, a distant planet colonized by a stoic group of Earth evacuees some two thousand years before, where the very concept of self is taboo, it's positively revolutionary.A large but sparsely populated world where the settlers are primarily gathered on just one of its five vast continents, the people of Borthan are rigidly bound to the Covenant, a social contract which discourages personal pronouns, frank discourse, and "any opening of the soul".To talk freely in this manor is known as 'selfbaring' and considered a shameful act.
3.5 Stars.What is the strength or conviction of someone’s beliefs unless they are tested by temptation?The Nebula Award winning novel A Time of Changes by Robert Silverberg attempts to answer the aforementioned question.
I was reminded of these words from Jesus in the Book of Matthew, “For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.“ {Matthew 16:25 ESV Bible} If you are a believer (especially in the Big 3 religions of Western Culture: Christianity, Judaism, & Islam), do you give up your autonomy as a human being in order to follow God?Silverberg uses the secular lens of science fiction to look at that fundamental question.
Narrado na primeira pessoa de Kinall Darival, habitante do planeta Borthan, província de Salla, que foi inicialmente colonizado por um grupo de pioneiros espaciais oriundos da Terra, sob a forma autobiográfica, esta escolha narrativa permite-nos entrar mais profundamente no dilema da vida deste personagem e sentir com alguma intensidade o desespero e desânimo iniciais, fruto de uma sociedade/cultura altamente repressiva da individualidade aliada a um conjunto de infelizes circunstâncias familiares, e, em oposição, a sensação final de alegria esfuziante, plena de liberdade, resultante da afirmação dos valores que foi construindo ao longo dos eventos relatados no romance, culminando num acto final de assunção da sua responsabilidade pelas opções que tomou e pelas vidas que influenciou.A abordagem a esta temática, enquadrada num outro planeta e numa outra realidade, sustentada no género da ficção científica, permite em simultâneo desresponsabilizar o leitor ao mesmo tempo que o vai capturando num processo inevitável de auto-análise à medida que a história se vai desenrolando.
At least until you're discovered and become a fugitive in a lonely desert, with the authorities closing in...My one complaint with this otherwise entertaining tale is the ending: our alien hero, having been inducted into drug taking by a jet setting earthman who then disappears, ends up imprisoned, with the only note of hope being that he leaves behind his thoughts on paper.
Am I hopelessly conventional to have wanted a spacecraft to arrive, and the earthman (who ultimately got us into all this trouble) to carry the hero to the other worlds where his broadened mind can experience new cultures?
With this book it was a single concept, a world where speaking in the first person singular is taboo, to use the word "I" is the worst kind of swearing.
Into this world, as so often happens, comes a man, an earthman as it happens, with a different point of view about what is right and wrong.
The fact is, throughout history, right and wrong has been almost a matter of fashion.In the world we live in, where the notion of free speech is taken for granted, it's hard I'm sure for some youngsters to understand what life used to be like and that change is not inevitable.
Director of Chicago's Womens' Athletic Club downtown, she was in the position to hire people for various positions.
She helped me during the summer after college and for some time after seminary by hiring me as a security guard, working days in the first instance and nights in the second.
The position was wonderful, entailing very little real work beyond occasional night rounds, allowing long periods for reading and writing.
It was during my first stint at the club that I read this Silverberg novel, the cover of which impressed me more than the contents.
One of the better Silverberg novels, one that makes you respect Silverberg's knack of telling people stories within a sci-fi conext, the world building here reminds one of the valentine's castle novels, a rich tapestry that is both old and new. This book is surely one of the highlights of Silverberg's career and far more timeless than some good efforts like Dying Inside, etc. Recomended even for reader's who don't normally read spec fiction.
