https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/299869.I_Am_That
In fact, there appear to be a significant number of people who do nothing, except read this book, and then accost strangers in cafés to tell them about it.If you are new to this way of thinking, and you wish to read I AM THAT, or are struggling to read it now, it would help tremendously to first read a friendly introduction to Advaita Vedanta.
Nothing too ethereal, steer clear of the Neo-Advaitins for now, perhaps Arthur Osbourne's Ramana Maharshi and the Path of Self-Knowledge , or any basic text on the life and teachings of Sri Ramana Maharshi.
(I do not doubt some people have attained enlightenment while hopscotching around this book.)Where to begin?
If I had to choose one 'spiritual' book, just one, only one...it would be this one. Nisargadatta points to the 'truth' with such clarity.
If I had to pick one book to take to a desert island, I Am That would be it! I've read it numerous times and still find inspiration and guidance from it. The excellent translation by Maurice Frydman makes I Am That eminently readable. It is filled with so many pearls of wisdom that I underlined practically the whole book!Incidentally, you can find the complete book online here: http://www.celextel.org/otherbooks/ni...
I have been reading this book for eight or nine years, picking it up now and then and reading it for a week or two, then taking something else up.
I began reading it when my first meditation teacher, Larry Rosenberg, told me (quite casually, when we were in a bookstore) that it was a great book, and great it is.
People came to him from all over the world with their questions, their concerns, their complaints, and he responded in most unusual ways.
The book is often quite funny, because people are struggling so much, and become quite angry as he tells them they don't have to do that.
You cannot go wrong with this book, though my edition is much older, worn and tattered from travels with me, including India. I had the good fortune to meet Nisargadatta in his home in Mumbai, when it was still Bombay, many years ago and hear him talk. I never will forget his kind presence....he was absolutely present. This book is for every spiritual seeker who wants to stop seeking. Nisargadatta was that rare being who lived as he taught. He was what he taught.
Have read several times over the years - each time, it is a different book! Or...am I different?
It manifests spontaneosly and effortlessly, when things are left to themselves, are not interfered with, not shunned, or wanted, or conceptualized, but just experienced in full awarness.
it does not make use of things and people - it fulfills them.""Consciousness is power.
be aware of what need to be done and it will be done.
You may not know, nor will the world know, yet the help irradiates.
There are people in the world who do more good them everybody.
They are just unable to desire anything for themselves, not even the joy of helping others knowing that God is good they are at peace."
I will be reading and re reading this book over and over for an indefinite period of time. Sri Nisaragadatta is interviewed by a westerner and his answers are as clear as crystal about why people suffer and how we can find peace within ourselves in chaos.
There is lots of very poetic descriptions such as:"You are like the point of the pencil — by mere contact with you the mind draws its picture of the world.
Don’t be misled by the picture — remain aware of the tiny point — which is everywhere in the picture." Page 452And:"The difference lies in what I do not experience.
I will not compromise, I am true to myself, while you are afraid of reality." Page 171Once in a while there is some practical advice for spiritual practice.
I did my best to follow his advice and in a comparatively short time I realized within myself the truth of his teaching.
Here's an example from one of the early sections, "What is born must die": Questioner: Is the witness-consciousness permanent or not?
Maharaj: It is not permanent.
The knower rises and sets with the known.
That in which both knower and the known arise and set, is beyond time.
Q: In sleep there is neither the known, nor the knower.
What keeps the body sensitive and receptive?
What is death - "Integration ends and disintegration sets in." His capacity to persuasively and concisely encompass broad, profound questions in simple, clear answers exceeds anything I've seen in any other spiritual teacher.
Nisargadatta Maharaj in I AM THAT make clear the meaning Advaita in strike matter. Before I read I Am That ...it's very dificult to understand another advaita clasic.Nisargadatta,is great teacher advaita in our times. I read Ramana Maharshi....but for words...I like words from Nisargadatta Maharaj...Nisargadatta is clear...and he speak with clarity..his dialogues very fresh and spontaneous.I always read his words and I feel immersed with his words...I try to contemplate....think..remember..and this is my practices.
The whole book is a dialogue between a realized master and his student(s). After reading too many books looking for the "ultimate Reality," this is the most clarifying of "It" I have found.My only critique is that he describes our true identity too accurately, and consequently, the ideas can be redundant...there's only so much to say."The seeker is the sought."
A series of q/a with seekers, it remains spiritual whiskey. Not for the timid. Brought me out of an unconscious life into one of discovery.
not a book you read for entertainment, a book you read for understanding and knowledge about the nature of self, consciousness and reality. A collection of Nisargadatta's talks, demonstrating what an incredibly coherent and profound way he had of putting the highest truth into relatively simple words. That said, you have to be ready to read this and lay the groundwork, otherwise it'll be fairly mind-boggling and meaningless. But if you're ready to get it - wow. Your life (or at least your understanding of your Self) will most likely never be the same again.
Nisargadatta is a negation specialist - pointing to a deeper, more sustaining reality. He is in good company with Jed McKenna, Wei Wu Wei, Richard Rose, Ashtavakra Gita, UG Krishnamurti. If corporeal/emotional transcendence is of interest, look no further. He is generally antagonistic and often eloquently arrogant. It's funny. He's sort of like a vampire stand-up comic, who only makes jokes about the differences between vampires and humans. Anything a human says is irrelevant because it comes from the human/ego. He speaks from this other realm of being and is incredibly convincing.
When I tried to read this straight through I quickly found myself losing the importance of what was being discussed. So instead I decided to read a page here and a page there over the course of 5 years. While some of the concepts were too lofty for me to truly appreciate, there was still much in the book that enlightened me. Highly recommended for anyone interested in the idea of spirituality.
Not everyone can read this book. Even after half a century of its publication, perhaps only a handful of people around the globe has reached the state necessary to read this book. I feel like we are a secret brotherhood. Adios amigos, brothers and sisters.
He speaks consistently on the direct experience of "I am", getting rid of all misconceptions of the mind.
Nisargadatta Maharaj's teachings are very similar to that of Ramana Maharishi.
He exudes respect for Ramana Maharishi and speaks well of all enlightened souls.
Nevertheless, Nisargadatta Maharaj replies to all of them with grace and patience.
He does not quote scriptures and sticks to his direct experience.This is a book I strongly recommend for anyone who seek to understand who they really are beneath the layers of accumulated assumptions and mental wanderings.
I read this book for the first time earlier this year. I'm now reading it for a second time. I choose not to get too wordy here. But having read material by Eckhart Tolle, Adyashanti, A Course in Miracles, etc, etc, this book really gets to the heart of the matter. I also read Consciousness and the Absolute:Final Talks with Nisargadatta Maharaj. Great book too. I agree with others, having read this book or any book by N.Maharaj, the urge to seek out other spiritual books diminishes significantly.
This book is always on my bedside table and is the most important book I have ever read.
I am always reading this. If I feel the urge, I pick it up, turn to a page, and find what I'm looking for. Seriously.
It makes it possible, that is all." - Sri Nisargadatta Maharaj (I Am That, Pg.134)"I just blink, for I know myself to be a tiny little bundle of desires and fears, a bubble of suffering, a transient flash of conciousness in an ocean of darkness." - Questioner (I Am That, Pg.144)"Look at it this way: The mind produces thoughts ceaselessly, even when you do not look at them.
Realize that you are not the mover, only the observer, and you will be at peace." - Sri Nisargadatta Maharaj (I Am That, Pg.338)"In the immensity of conciousness a light appears, a tiny point that moves rapidly and traces shapes, thoughts and feelings, concepts and ideas, like the pen writing on paper.
this is the kind of book which can take years to read... very dense in that it opens the mind, shakes out paradigms, and catalyzes new thoughts which need to simmer, percolate and be experienced in practice while engaging the world with new perspective.... coming back to it is like an old friend and a fresh spring day... refreshing and comforting companionship on a sometimes solitary journey of self-exploration and earnest, albeit often ungraceful, experiencing of the true nature of reality, the meeting of our internal worlds w/the world around us....
This book transformed my life for ever. It was made manifest to me at a most challenging time. A book that reveals the illusion of the mind and disharmony caused by attachment to thoughts as they ebb and flow on the tide of consciousness. There is really nowhere to go and nobody you have to be. Identification with form and ego create separation and all fall away when you become "the witness" and "the watcher" of the dreams you create. Out of that realisation comes a stillness and a peace you know has always been there.
For those who wish to gain a truthful insight on the nature of reality. Simply AWESOME!!
I have been looking for a book which will make me say " this time thats it" for a long time..
I bought or reviewed many books that is meant to "help you"..
you feel that the words are the words of an extraordinary human being..
even ı dont kmow if he is a human being in the sense we use this word..
Maharaj is sincere on the answers, no commercial aims..
just answers coming from within..
I am still reading it and must admit that it is very hard to digest..
however it gives the feeling of " being completed"..
read and see for yourself
Book tells not about yoga exercise or any breathing practice, neither about religion or any ritual; it is all about focus on self.This man rejects emotional suppression like 'bramhacharya'.
He also shows disagreement with idea of god.Pleasure and pain are two different sides of same coin, if you earn the coin you will get both."I am" only the witness.The book tells us to ignore all temptations, and practice observing self,one's deeds of body and mind.Some great quotes,-Give up all questions except one, "Who am I?" After all the only fact you are sure of is that you "are".
He believes that the percieved world and mind are illusory manifestations of a non-describable, yet aware, entity.
It is very helpful to me, when I am sad, frustrated, or anxious, to be able to say "there is that feeling of sadness, which is not me." "There is that thought about that patient." That detaches me from the thought or feeling enough to process it constructively.I found this book to be very helpful personally, but I would not recommend it as an introduction to yoga or to meditation.
I almost gave this book just 3 stars. And it's not a criticism towards Nisargadatta, but the fact that it becomes almost a bore to read the people repeating almost the same questions, and not getting it. At the same time, it's a documentary in the spiritual development of the West. It's like a collections of satsangs, and luckily you can find your question in there, or you can just go to the internet..Still, I found it worth reading. Choose for yourSelf.
So the Ideas in this book given by Maharaj really makes sense. .. But almost every chapter is an overdose of ideas and it gets petty monotonous . This is one of those books which should perhaps be read on a quite morning and only in parts ... THe reason why i liked the ideas and concepts here is that it is not governed by religion o religion practices ..
