https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76889.100_Selected_Poems

If you want to experience a poet dance, pick up ee cummings.If you are youth and want some slogans o
Cummings is easy to do this with: his style is deliberately translucent (neither opaque nor transparent) but almost every poem has some bright metaphors or clear lines that ring like crystal.I can bathe and come out dripping in sweet lines too, but my brain is attuned to symbol manipulation.
I'll be interested to read later and learn other approaches, but for now here's how I see it.Cummings wants you to work on his poems: reading not a passive act, "jolly good, yes, that's exactly what a summer's day is like".
If your favorite color is blue, it's hard to explain why it appeals to you.
Expressing the inarticulable, the ability to convey a sense of something beyond words through words, for me, is the greatness of a poet.I first stumbled across cummings in high school in one of those gloss covered, all-encompassing, "LITERATURE" textbooks that public schools are so fond of.
And, for whatever reason, e.e. cummings has accompanied me since.
Now, possibly out of habit, I continually retreat to him whenever facing change.Though certain poems have resonated for one reason or another more vibrantly at different times, what consistently comforts me is his sense of freedom.
somewhere i have never traveled, gladly beyondany experience, your eyes have their silence:in your most frail gesture are things which enclose me,or which i cannot touch because they are too nearyour slightest look easily will unclose methough i have closed myself as fingers,you open always petal by petal myself as Spring opens(touching skillfully, mysteriously) her first roseor if your wish be to close me, i andmy life will shut very beautifully, suddenly,as when the heart of this flower imagi

My first Cummings book (it cost me $1.95 many years ago) and still my favorite.
The general critical consensus seems to be that Cummings was second-rate.
Well, for me, he is more engaging than many poets that others fawn over.
He was a fine erotic poet, and an effective political satirist.
He didn't write poem after poem that sounded like the same monotonous droning of Portentous Hush.
Also, he made his living entirely through his writing, except for one brief stint as a guest professor at Harvard.
Unlike many poets of today, academia was not his ambition.
If I picked this book to take with me, when someone found me ten years later, I would still be puzzling over some of the meaning of the poems; I would still be kept comfortably happy, sad, shy, engaged, and peaceful by the texture, the emotion of these poems; I would still be engaging with and dissecting these 100 poems; I would have been driven quite insane in those ten years by these poems.Another inroad: When I read poetry, I have a tendency to rate the poems on the fly with little stars in the margins.
Most of them are hardly a page long and very short but like my aversion of short stories there was something in this book of short poems that just didn’t click with me.
I remember opening a Brian Transeaux (I think) album and reading the following excerpt from a Cumming’s poem and being blown away as an 18 year old:“Deeds cannot dream what dreams can doTime is a tree (this life is one leaf)But love is the sky, and I am for youJust so long and long enough”There were a few other poems which were pretty good but I just really didn’t connect with most of the others.
When the professor suggested that we read the poems aloud, I scoffed.
I loved poetry and I never had to read it aloud before so why should I now?However, that professor was correct.When I came across this book on one of my lists, I told myself that I could suffer through just 100 poems.
I didn't suffer through them at all, though.
It was poem 3 that hooked me.
I read it through twice.
I waited for my boyfriend to get home from work and read it to him.
I loved it.
L-am descoperit pe Cummings în Magonia și nu credeam că o să îmi placă atât de mult.
There were a few I really enjoyed, some I didn't feel anything about, and there even a couple I couldn't understand anything about. I feel like I could read these again in a couple of years and it would be a completely different experience.

may my heart always be open to littlebirds who are the secrets of livingwhatever they sing is better than to knowand if men should not hear them men are oldmay my mind stroll about hungryand fearless and thirsty and suppleand even if it's sunday may i be wrongfor whenever men are right they are not youngand may myself do nothing usefullyand love yourself so more than trulythere's never been quite such a fool who could failpulling all the sky over him with one smile---While reading this, I was constantly divided between "ohh, I love this!" and "ehm, okay, now what is going on?" I just don't think that all of e.
I've only read a few of his poems for my literature class but wow, he's one of my favorites. I love his wording. Absolutely beautiful. I actually read them in March 2016 but it's poems within my LIT book that I counted as read already :)
this cover is terrible and this collection doesn't have my faves i carry your heart or dive for dreams unfortunately but i love it
I don't like his style. There were some poems I really enjoyed. I would probably like this more if I took more time to study it later in my life, but there's a lot more to read in the world.
Some poems were beautiful and made me cry; some were so confusing I’m still not sure what I read.
Every time I read this collection of verses, I find new favorites and gain new understanding of cummings’s work. This time, one that spoke to me was #99–“and now you are and I am now and we’rea mystery which will never happen again,a miracle which has never happened before—and shining this our now must come to then”
I've always loved the Indigo Girls song "Virginia Woolf," because it's about the awe-inspiring sensation of instinctively grasping a writer's aesthetic and point of view, and it's pretty much how I felt while I was reading this collection of E.
That's not a difficult thing to do- few poems in this collection fill more than one widely-spaced page.
This isn't to say that Cummings is devoid of cynicism or irony- there are several stand-out works that are undeniably angry and frustrated, but I think a big part of the reason I immediately warmed to Cummings is because we are both constantly amazed by the world we live in, and while we both have occasional black moods, they don't last long because the world continues to be amazing.
My rating of works of poetry are always purely based on my personal enjoyment of them and are never based on the skill of the writing.
It will not be a pansy heaven nor a fragile heaven of lillies-of-the-valley but it will be a heaven of blackred roses..."And here from my favorite, poem #8:"it may not always be so; and I saythat if your lips, which I have loved, should touch another's, and your dear strong fingers clutch his heart, as mine in time not far away......if this should be, I say if this should be--you of my heart, send me a little word; that I may go unto him, and take his hands, saying, Accept all happiness from me..."
It's like putting "God" in lower case.) The extravagant praise on the back of this book, by Marianne Moore, John Dos Passos, Randall Jarrell, Karl Shapiro, is notably defensive, as if one must apologize for liking cummings -- the way one apologizes for loving Madonna.
e.: the tender strains of love, and adolescent revolt, swell in his lyrics.
But one loves his ordinary poems, too, for their signature semi-humor.
e. saw the million dangers of the American empire, already in "1 X 1" (a book he wrote in 1944).
Of the ones I had trouble understanding there were some that I figured if I was a little smarter, or better read or had more similar cultural capital to the poet maybe I would have had a chance, but there were some I suspected the poet was just being subjective to the point of incoherence (which is pretty self-indulgent).
The way he used language and punctuation was obviously meant to be critical or creative or something (and in the better poems brought in a whole beautifully sarcastic flavour to it).
Like the emperor's new clothes I suppose I am meant to nod and smile and pretend I understand what he did.
Here's my favorite:Humanity i love youbecause you would rather black the boots ofsuccess than enquire whose soul dangles from hiswatch-chain which would be embarrassing for bothparties and because youunflinchingly applaud allsongs containing the words country home andmother when sung at the old howardHumanity i love you becausewhen you’re hard up you pawn yourintelligence to buy a drink and whenyou’re flush pride keepsyou from the pawn shop andbecause you are continually committingnuisances but moreespecially in your own houseHumanity i love you because youare perpetually putting the secret oflife in your pants and forgettingit’s there and sitting downon itand because you areforever making poems in the lapof death Humanityi hate you
I once titled a high school mix tape "He sang his didn't he danced his did." -- I bet I wasn't the only person to do that.
Cummings speaks to that rosy-cheeked puppy-love idealism that infects us all when we're young & lusty, and he's occasionally a genius at it too.
But I think high school is where his poems should stay: his inability to think deeply about any topic whatsoever is pretty obvious as you read on.
And his bungee-jumping syntax seems more lazy than brilliant after you move on to contemporaries like Hart Crane or John Berryman.
Still: I bet e.e. was pretty good in the sack.
How can you describe the beauty of E.E. Cummings? There is no way to put into words the simply ecstastic way in which he writes. For people who can't stand some improper grammar - you probably won't be his biggest fan. It's an aqquired taste to be sure. His poems are full of ambition, idealism, sex, and fantasy. The words float off the page. Read them out loud to yourself. I'll be astonished if you're not completely moved by them. "i feel that(false and true are merely to know)Love only has ever been,is,and will ever be,So"
Something I thought I would like, but ended up just breezing and looking at the poems. I know some people love this guys stuff, but I couldn't really get into it, at least some of them looked nice. To be honest, I'm not sure what I just read. Was that even a langue or a list of random words? Sorry, but this is not my kind of poetry. Maybe if I was more into poetry I'd like this stuff. Oh well.
let it go – thesmashed word brokenopen vow orthe oath cracked lengthwise – let it go itwas sworn togolet them go – thetruthful liars andthe false fair friendsand the boths andneithers – you must let them go theywere bornto golet all go – thebig small middlingtall bigger reallythe biggest and allthings – let all godearso comes love
a man who had fallen among thieveslay by the roadside on his backdressed in fifteenthrate ideaswearing a round jeer for a hatIf you've never read Cummings, you need to give him time.
His punctuation, his meld words, his eccentric word-placement on the page, and then his actual experiments with meaning—they're not immediately obvious or understandable.
Some poems are harder, some easier to grasp, but I found persisting with an open mind to be ultimately rewarding.Reading aloud helped me discover the pulse of a poem, as well as enjoy its different epigrammatic aspects.
Cummings uses word-play to point at deeper issues—and most cleverly.
I'm always fascinated by the way Cummings created his own style (with the use of parentheses and his improper use of grammar).
Although some poems are difficult to fathom, most of his poems are well-written and I just had to indulge into the verses over and over again.
#79let it go — thesmashed word brokenopen vow orthe oath cracked lengthwise let it go itwas sworn togolet them go — thetruthful liars andthe false fair friendsand the boths andneithers — you must let them go theywere bornto golet all go — thebig small middlingtall bigger reallythe biggest and allthings —let all godearso comes love
I've read many of cummings' poems before but it was a distinct pleasure to go slowly through this collection, reading one poem a night before bed. His playfulness and humanity, the twisty tendrils of his language, carried me peacefully into my dreams after many a terrible day these past several months. Highly recommended if you're feeling angry or sad or scared about the current state of things, or even if you just need a short respite from it.
