https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15704307-saga-vol-1
Merciful Buddha, this was so good. It's *so* good I wish I hadn't started reading it so soon. Now I have to wait for the next book to come out. I hate it when I have to wait the next book in a series to come out. Don't you hate it when you have to wait for the next book in a series to come out?
THIS WAS SO GOOD! I held off on buying the rest of the series before I started because I wanted to make sure I liked it, and now I'm so frustrated I can't continue IMMEDIATELY! The art, the characters, the tone, THE STORY--I'M LOVING IT ALL.MORE PLEASE NOW THANK YOU.
this question is a reaction to the sight of this:  but it could be asked in response to seeing many of the other creatures appearing in this story.it's got unicorn people torsoless sex workers teevee-head people seahorse people and … this the story centers around a second timeless question: why, these two assholes, that's who: these incredibly attractive characters are supposed to hate each other, due to the longstanding war between their respective peoples, but they fall in love in that romant
the story centers around a second timeless question:
the third question is why did i wait so long to read this?
it had been recommended to me a number of times by a number of people, and i'd always kept it in the back of my mind to read "someday," but if i'd known it would be this good, i would have kicked myself in the ass towards it a long time ago.this is a triumph of art, story, and concept, it's funny as hell, and i love the characters - not just our two protagonists, but even those who are in pursuit of them.
Loved it.Now, this comic is composed of so many elements that I never dreamed I would one day come to mightily admire, such as monsters, weird chimeras/creatures, a futuristic or alternative setting and world and killings everywhere and all the time.
The story follows not only the main characters with their baby but others – such as their pursuers – as well.
It’s fast-paced, it’s imaginative, creative, amazingly drawn and there’s one hell of a love story inside it!But it’s not only that.
It’s not only a love story or one about war and its consequences.
i just binge-read five volumes of this comic and came to a very important conclusion:happy? read Saga. sad? read Saga. sick? read Saga. bored? read Saga. broke? read Saga. sleepy? read Saga. missed your bus? read Saga. have homework to do? read Saga. dying from a festering wound? you guessed it....READ SAGA.reading Saga will solve 100% of all your problems. trust me, i am a medical doctor.
and somehow, amazingly, it all works.The main characters - Alana and Marko - make an hilarious and lovable duo that also offer a realistic portrayal of a relationship between two young lovers with a baby they hadn't planned for.
Gentle, well-meaning pacifist Marko is the complete opposite and they balance each other out so well.It's strange how easily Vaughan managed to juggle several subplots in just 160 pages.
I, for one, am very excited to see what volume two will bring and I may have to check out some of Vaughan's other series in the meantime or I risk going crazy waiting for more.p.s. Isn't this one of the most disturbing things ever?
5 Awesomely Raunchy Sci-Fi StarsThis was only my second graphic novel ever, so obviously I’m no expert; but this was seriously entertaining as fuck and unlike anything I’ve ever read before. I am totally a new fan.Give me more.
Yes, Y:TLM was about the sudden deaths of almost every male on earth, and Ex Machina used the idea of a super hero as the mayor of New York right after 9/11, but both of those started with the real world as the baseline and then explored what happened if you introduced a fantastic element to it.Saga has no similar foundation in a recognizable reality, yet once again Vaughan creates familiar and likeable characters that you can’t help but root for.
It’s also one of the best comics I’ve read recently, and I can’t wait to see how this story plays out.
Oh my goodness. I need the next one immediately. Loved the story, artwork and premise. Didn't love some of the language. Review to come. -------FINALLY READING THIS. \(^o^)/
So. Saga, right?I was starting to feel like the only person in the universe who hadn't read Vaughan's supposedly fantastic title.
I could honestly spend the entire review just gushing about how funny this chick was.When it opens, Alana is giving birth to Hazel.
It's a love story!Only...with really insane looking alien species.So, the lovebirds are on the run from bounty hunters and a prince with a tv head.I swear!
We all need a Lying Cat!This story is just fantastic.
Good stuff, good stuff.If you're like me and tend to skirt around the weird stuff, don't let that stop you this time.
5/3/18 - ON SALE for $3.99:https://amzn.to/2JSjHVPReviewed by: Rabid ReadsBefore anything else, it must be said that SAGA is the most beautiful and hideous, the most hopeful and fatalistic, the most graphic, and the most adorable thing I have ever read or seen.It is ALL the things.
all of that is the opposite side of the bringing-a-new-life-that-you-helped-create-into-the-world coin.It's gross, man.
B/c that's what SAGA is: finding the beauty in the ugliness of life.
Marko and Alana are two soldiers on opposite sides of a war, who, against all odds, fall in love.
uhmmmmm YES I'm in love
Me at 1 AM:Hmmm, a few pages before bed won't hurt, I'll just read the first chapter for now.Me at 3:30 AM:HOLY MOTHER OF GOD I NEED THE SECOND BOOK AT ONCE(note that this is a school night)(because no biggie)(#noragretz)One word to sum it all up: unfuckingputdownable.
Mind-blowing material! This collected volume features issues #1-6 from the comic book series “Saga”.Creative Team:Writer: Brian K. VaughanIllustrator: Fiona Staples GOT SAGA?  My name is Hazel. -- I started out as an idea, but I ended up something more. -- Not much more, to be honest. It’s not like I grow up to become some great war hero or any sort of all-important savior... -- ...but thanks to these two (her parents), at least I get to grow old. -- Not everybody does. I had heard many positiv
Basically because Hazel (daughter of the main characters: Alana & Marko) is a narrator in “her story” since she born while her parents are escaping from authorities from their own each species whom they are at war using sci-fi weapons but also magic, living in a large space community where you can find as wacky as grimm elements there.Imagination in full “fireworks” mode!Anything goes in Saga!!!
The war has been for so many time that nowadays they aren’t battling in their own native areas but moving their battlegrounds to other star systems and worlds.Alana and Marko fell in love and they gave birth to Hazel.

No words. Just emotions.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Pinterest
Even the goddamn PLANTS want us dead!"Listen, I understand that this is a media darling.But I find it very hard to enjoy stories/books/comics/tv/movies where the world that is featured and spent time in is a world where it's completely normal to enslave six-year-old girls for prostitution, people talk about murdering other people - children, and infants - as if it ain't no thing, torture, rape, and woman-hating are everyday and commonplace.You could say, "Oh, but, Carmen, heroes rise out of this!
Not a world I want to spend any length of time in.
THE ART IS NICE and I really love the characters too this was super great? Full review to come
I read this first volume straight through and I spent most of the time laughing at the sheer weirdness of the characters and the situations they found themselves in.The strength of the story relies on the sheer energy of the action; it is non-stop and utterly relentless as our two protagonists fight to save their daughter in a world at war.
I feel like we jump straight into this story, into this universe, that is already firmly established and has been in existence for a long, long time.
At the moment I feel like I’ve just had a glimpse at this world, and I hope that when I do look again it carries the same level of strange excellence.
Compelling characters and world building. Sometimes the dialogue is just... off and offensive but not in a charming way.
But these two didn't follow the rules and had a little girl :-) Then a few minutes after having the baby some freak with an old tv or computer monitor for a head wants to take them to jail.
Alan, Marko and the baby miraculously don't get killed and they get a map and try to find a way to get off the planet.
Oh and this crazy Robot Prince hires some people to try to find them and the baby.
Right now he's on the toilet reading a romance novel!
4? 4.5?I'm not sure what I expected but certainly not this!
What just happened?❧ ❧ Time for uniformative review #2568 ❧❧  Coolest husband/wife team ever Baby narrative Lying cat Ghost kids FunnyThis is was I get for marrying a vegetarian! Even the goddam plants want to eat us!  Sextillion Cheap romance recs being thrown at me again People with television set heads doing...things▧ PG-13 version:▧ X-rated version Sexy freelancer with a heart. Sort of. Tree spaceshipSo. What just happened?
What just happened?❧ ❧ Time for uniformative review #2568 ❧❧ ① Coolest husband/wife team ever② Baby narrative③ Lying cat④ Ghost kids⑤ FunnyThis is was I get for marrying a vegetarian! Even the goddam plants want to eat us! ⑥ Sextillion⑦ Cheap romance recs being thrown at me again⑧ People with television set heads doing...things▧ PG-13 version:▧ X-rated version⑨ Sexy freelancer with a heart. Sort of.⑩ Tree spaceshipSo. What just happened?
YO YO YO YO. Buying the rest of the series PRONTO. I read this on the subway and was happy when I got lost because it led to an extra 40 minutes of reading time. SO DAMN ADDICTIVE.
When I first picked this up on recommendation from a friend, I was worried that it might be a bit too....
The beautiful images combined with a story that I won't soon forget is going to have me recommending this one for a long time.Who should read it?: I'm starting to think that I might be the last person to pick this up, but if somehow you haven't yet read it, get your hands on a copy and you'll see just why it's become so popular.
This dude with his cat who is a lie detector:And this other chick who is like a spider woman called The Stalk:And in-between these robots having sex who have TV heads and other crazy shizz, they meet up with a babysitter for Hazel named Izabel:It's so much fun!
I have read a couple other of Vaughan's series, Y: The Last Man, Vol. 1: Unmanned and Runaways, Vol. 1: Pride and Joy. If I'm not mistaken, Staples did some of the illustration for the Runaways and Izabel reminds me of Molly Hayes from that series.Okay, on to volume two!
I just finished reading this and WOW. Definitely not what I was expecting, but I enjoyed it immensely.The artwork is fantastic and I’m really intrigued by the plot.I’ve heard great things about this series, so I’m glad that I finally picked this one up. It was a great quick read.I’m excited to start volume 2 next!3.5 stars*Note: I'm an Amazon Affiliate. If you're interested in buying Saga, Volume 1, just click on the image below to go through my link. I'll make a small commission!* Support creat
I just finished reading this and WOW. Definitely not what I was expecting, but I enjoyed it immensely.The artwork is fantastic and I’m really intrigued by the plot.I’ve heard great things about this series, so I’m glad that I finally picked this one up. It was a great quick read.I’m excited to start volume 2 next!3.5 stars*Note: I'm an Amazon Affiliate. If you're interested in buying Saga, Volume 1, just click on the image below to go through my link. I'll make a small commission!*
  Support creators you love. Buy a Coffee for nat (bookspoils) with http://Ko-fi.com/bookspoils
From the start, this series is fantastic. The Romeo and Juliet storyline, the artwork, the great ideas. What happens when a woman from warrior culture with wings falls in love with a man from her enemy’s planet with horns? The story is told by their child. It is a pure joy to read. Highly, highly recommended for all fans of Sci-Fi!
Hilarity and awesomeness ensue.Yeah, I'm really late to the party on this but Saga is pretty fucking great.
It's part space opera, part relationship drama, with lots of laughs and inventive aliens thrown into the mix.
Tired of the same old aliens?
There's also magic and spacecraft made out of wood.The characters are quite relateable despite their alien origins.
The Stalk and The Will weren't just asshole bounty hunters and were quite well rounded.If the later volumes are as good as the first, Saga is going to go down as one of my favorite comic series of all time.
This was seriously so enjoyable. The art was beautiful and the story was so compelling. I don't read a ton of graphic novels but this is the one that has kept me hooked the most BY FAR.The world building was interesting, though not totally explained, but I feel like more of that is coming in later volumes. I can't wait to see where it goes from here!
