https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96123.All_the_President_s_Men
Re-reading for the 3rd time- I think with what is happening at the moment- it's time. Now there is something to compare what happened then...to what is happening now.
IMMENT  IMMENT  IMMENT (Roubley dosh for a flag and a country?) IMMENT Mr Projectionist has the film reeled up, ready to go, for tonight's delectation. The political antics of the last year or so makes this a good time for a re-visit to the Saturday Night Massacre et al. Maybe there will be clues as to how this present scenario will work out. IMMENT The Rachel Maddow Show: 'The echo of Watergate is very strong here': Senator WhitehouseMorning Joe: Echoes of Watergate in the Trump administration
(Roubley dosh for a flag and a country?)
Mr Projectionist has the film reeled up, ready to go, for tonight's delectation.
The political antics of the last year or so makes this a good time for a re-visit to the Saturday Night Massacre et al.
Maybe there will be clues as to how this present scenario will work out.
IMMENT
IMMENT
IMMENT
IMMENT
IMMENT
The Rachel Maddow Show: 'The echo of Watergate is very strong here': Senator WhitehouseMorning Joe: Echoes of Watergate in the Trump administration?The Rebels are breaking through: congrats to Macron in France, and Moon in South Korea, hereforth known as Big Mac and Super Moon.
This book was truly unbelievable. The entire time I was reading it, I kept reminding myself that this was real history and it all happened. There was so much drama in all the proceedings, and to realize that it’s the select few (in great positions) of the government beneath it all. I completely admire the reporting of these two individuals and their endless dedication to get the facts and the information correct and to the public, as well as keep their sources anonymous - I was in awe and amazement throughout every page.
While facts certainly do have their place, standing alone they make for a dry and oft times downright tedious read.
Missing from this account was any real sense for who these highly placed presidential players were, what motivated them, and how those factors led them to so willingly participate in criminal activity.
Nevertheless, after reading this 336-page newspaper article, I certainly do have a better sense for the who, what, when, and where of the Watergate scandal that rocked the nation at about the same time I was born, and which has remained within the American political and cultural psyche throughout all the years of my life.
All the President's Men was probably the first (adult) political book I ever read, and even though I was way too young to understand or appreciate it, it just made me feel… cool; like, it was okay to obsess over all this, because doing so could actually be of consequence.
I can't credit this book with my lifelong passion for politics, but it was probably the book that made me realize that reality is infinitely more fascinating and incredible than any work of fiction could ever be.
This was probably the first non-fiction grown-up book I ever read. It's a compelling portrayal of an momentous slice of American history and journalism. This evening I went to an American Cinematheque screening of 1976 film adaptation of All The President's Men. Holy hotness, the camera sure does love Robert Redford.And Dustin Hoffman with that awesome shaggy look.This duo had it going on, corduroy suits, big collars and typewriters.Also, All The President's Men also made Deep Throat a household term.
Watergate has been in the news recently because of Trump.
I realized that I know next to nothing about Watergate.
It was wonderful, and I made a beeline to Amazon to order the book afterwards.Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein.
Not only did Nixon get outed, this story taught people that if something nefarious and wicked is going on I our government, they can speak up rather than sitting in silence and fear.I think we probably owe a lot of current leaks during this Trump administration to the fact that Woodward and Bernstein taught the citizens of the United States that they can fight for truth, honesty, and justice.
I have watched my DVD of the movie more than half a dozen times and, as much as I enjoy it each time, I have always thought that something was missing, some key bits of information needed to tie it all together.Well, duh!
Not in the tidy, linear progression from the morning after the Watergate break-in through the last explosive story clearly implicating Tricky Dick as in the movie, but rather the more realistic slice-of-life, back and forth and all around movements in search of tips, confirmations, just one more corroborating source so that day's story could be written and printed.
The book that opened my eyes to politics...still relevant and (sadly) still not a lesson learned by our politicians.
תיעוד היסטורי של אחת הפרשות המטלטלות בהיסטוריה של ארה"ב פרשת ווטרגייט, מרגע חשיפתה עד להתפטרות הנשיא ניקסון.את הספר כתבו העיתונאים שחשפו את עומק הפרשה מטעם הוושינגטון פוסט.תיאור השתלשלות האירועים נראית כמו מתח בדיוני, אי אפשר להאמין עד כמה רקוב היה הממשל בפעילויותיו תוך שאנשי הממשל מנצלים את טענת " פגיעה בבטחון המדינה" כדי להסתיר מעיניי הציבור את טיב הפעילות הפלילית של אנשיו.אחת הבעיות בספר, לפחות לקורא הישראלי, שרוב הדמויות בסיפור לא מוכרות ולא מעוררות שום הידהוד לכן כאשר הספר נכנס לעומק הפרטים מצאתי שאני קוראת מכח האינרציה רק כדי להגיע לחלקים מותחים ומעניינים יותר.גם ההתעסקות בפרטי הפרטים לא תרמה לקשב שלי.
Ceea ce a ieşit la iveală a fost faptul că întregul executiv liberal era de fapt un sistem mafiot animat de dorinţa de a păstra puterea.Nixon, liberal fără scrupule, îşi dă demisia în august 1974, după ce mai multe capete de acuzare planau asupra sa, deoarece Constituţia SUA nu permite punerea sub acuzare a Preşedintelui sub raţiunea incalcarii principiului separaţiei puterilor în stat (sic!).Romanul, ecranizat în 1976, cu Dustin Hoffman şi Robert Redford în rolurile celor doi jurnalişti de la Post, rămâne astfel în istorie ca un exponent al necesităţii libertăţii presei, adică a necenzurarii din partea statului, cu toate riscurile ce decurg de aici (adică Antena 3, de pildă).
When somebody like Hugh Sloan relates his disillusionment with the people in power— “People in the White House believed they were entitled to do things differently, to suspend the rules, because they were fulfilling a mission; that was the only important thing, the mission.”— what’s hard to believe is that there was a time when that wasn’t accepted fact.
Now, the Woodwards and the Bernsteins and the Hugh Sloans are the relic of a bygone era.
I think we’ve bit the apple for good.
Watergate took time. Watergate took time. Watergate took time. -- Mantra for 2018
I you don't have an extensive background knowledge of this topic (Nixon's presidency, the 1972 elections, who all the president's men actually are), this book might be just a bit too much for you.
There were some very interesting parts, and just like a lot of reviews say, it read like a detective thriller, but by the end of it, the story just dragged, and I lost track of who is who, and what is what and whodunit.
On the other hand, it spurred enough interest for me to want to learn more about Nixon and the whole affair.
I was in high school when Richard Nixon died, but I was young and my interests at that time weren't exceptionally political.
Oh wait.At that particular breakfast he tried to tell me how Nixon hadn't been such a bad guy, that he had gotten a bad reputation but that personally his heart went out to him, because that "whole Watergate stuff" just wasn't his fault.
Even though I wasn't especially into politics at that time, I knew that my opinions were less Republican and less conservative than, say, my friend's stepdad.
This was probably the first of many that I read on the Nixon scandal. Actually, I don't know if it was the first.We knew he was a crook ... we just didn't know how much of one.How the mighty fall.I must have read 4-10 books on this subject. I wouldn't touch most of them now. I have put it in the past. And now I won't look at a Nixon movie or book - no matter which point of view it takes. It just gets me riled up all over again.
2018 Reading Challenge: book set during the decade I was born
Entering the building from the garage, I went through the same door that they taped and entered and whenever I walked up the stairs I passed the 6th floor where the Democratic Headquarters was located that they broke into.There was no nostalgia for me reading this book nor feeling close to historical events.
I soon expect to be reading another superb account of wrongdoing by a President and his associates (including family) involving the current Trump takeover and corrupt methods of criminal domination.
Doesn't it begin with the ignorance of the little guy, the individual voter, who is gullible, bigoted and stupid like oafs from the Middle Ages?
Recently read The Dangerous Case of Donald Trump in which Nixon and the Watergate scandal were mentioned frequently and thought maybe it was finally time to read.
What struck me the most was how mild the Watergate scandal seems compared to the ethical mess that is the Trump Presidency.
I was also struck by the similarities between the way Nixon's administration demonized the press, essentially dubbing it "fake news," and how they used alternative facts, indignation, and flat out lies to counter the unraveling story just as the Trump team has done.
“… [T]he grand conspiracy directed by the President’s men to subvert the electoral process.” This time around the President’s men have names like Vovochka, Mitya and Mishka.“Somehow the bungling seemed reassuring—it tempered the frightening implications of how far the Nixon forces were willing to go to achieve their ends.” I am not (yet) reassured by Trump and his people and all that bungling.
SAD!“He [RMN] think the press is out to get him and therefore is disloyal; people who talk to the press are even worse—the enemies within…” So Trumpian.Trump WH trying to ban the use of personal cell phones!
In other words, Trump is leaking while trying to grab staff personal phones.
I don't know if it's true today, but I was impressed by how often Woodward and Bernstein would be rebuffed by their editor and told to find a second source to confirm a fact.
3. When reading quotes from politicians, if they don't give a flat-out confirmation or denial when asked a question, know that there are about 15 things they are probably withholding from you at that moment: players' names, intent, schisms in the ranks, motives, etc.4.
It was fun to read the book knowing that Mark Felt is Deepthroat (I've even been to the garage parking spot where they met!).
If everything Bush does makes you queasy, here's a book remedy for your troubled stomach: Learn all about the skeezy Nixon whitehouse!Great spytastic scenes with DeepThroat, the best named secret source ever. Makes you wonder...did Woodward and Bernsteing love porn? Does deepthroat the pornstar love politics? And what do we think Bill Clinton thinks about all of this?
Such an important book to read in the current global context.
I had watched the movie, Mark Felt (about the FBI special agent who was known by Bob Woodward only as Deep Throat during the Watergate investigation.) That led me to watch the movie by the same title made from the book All the President's Men. The movie was good but I felt there might be more to know, so I read the book.In 1970 I had my first son followed by another in 1973.
It is a thrilling though terrible account of criminal behavior and cover ups instigated by President of the United States Richard Nixon and carried out by the men closest to him.

A former Assistant Attorney General.
Attorney General of the United States.
Acting Director of the FBI, and at the head of this pile, the President of the United States.Thankfully there was to be no whitewash in the White House.Bernstein and Woodward's detective story from the Washington Post, written in the third person, shoots off the line on June 17th 1972 and blazes a relentless trail of investigative journalism all the way to the finish line.Forgive my insatiable distrust of our great and revered leaders, but I am left unsure of the motives behind Howard Hunt's escapade into the Watergate's foggy bottom.

Walaupun kepribadian mereka berdua bertolak belakang, sering berselisih pendapat, tetapi tidak menggoyahkan kekuatan tim mereka utk saling bahu-membahu kasus Watergate yang menjadi terkenal karena mengakibatkan impeachment dan pengunduran diri Presiden AS, Richard M.
Walau buku ini non fiksi, duo wartawan ini lumayan lihai menyusupkan kepribadian2 karakter tokoh2 yang mereka temui, sehingga kita bisa membayangkan seperti apa mereka sebenarnya.
Tetapi sayangnya buku ini tetap ada kelemahannya terutama utk pembaca awam sejarah Presiden-Presiden AS, karena jika tidak mengetahui kenapa Partai Demokrat sedemikian rupa diincar utk dibobol/disadap oleh orang-orang Republik, niscaya akan menimbulkan kebingungan total bagi para pembaca pemula.
Dan kejengkelan beliau terhadap klan Kennedy tidak dibahas juga dalam buku ini.
Written in a terse, reporter-like style, Woodward and Bernstein simply retell their investigation and where it lead.
The most exciting part of the book for me was when they published a big break in the story (in October, 1972), and then realized that they got at least one of their details wrong.Some things that surprised me:1.
Woodward and Bernstein have to WORK to track down even the most mundane information, like what a certain job title means, or whether or not someone works at the White House.2.
This book is an account of the reporting by Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein of the Watergate scandal.
I think it would have had more of an impact on me if I read the book at the time it was initially published.
Indeed, I would think that the Washington Post in particular would be sensitive to The Patriot Act and the potential for abuse considering the level of abuse by the Nixon administration in wiretapping.
I think part of my lack of shock may stem from growing up knowing that this happened and Nixon resigned.
