https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/219919.The_Robe
All of the accounts are what we've read about in the New Testament all our lives, but the fictional stories of how those teachings changed the lives of humble people in forsaken villages in a forsaken countryside made me understand how Christianity spread the world over, (regardless of the Romans trying to squelch it out) and how the influence of a few compassionate acts can slowly, quietly change mankind for generations exponentially.
(Except for the dusty sandals part.) Plus, I listened to this book on my iPod and it was nice to hear an Australian accent enacting the Greek and Roman people.
I really enjoyed this book, even though at times it was a bit tedious. So happy I finally read it! 😊
People, buildings and landscapes all feel like you can reach through the pages and touch them.
It’s also annoying that the female characters (except Miriam) do not seem to understand the stakes of the conflict to the degree that the men do, but that, alas, must be expected of a book from this time, especially one written by a man.
(hide spoiler)]The 1953 movie based on the book—starring Richard Burton, Jean Simmons, and Victor Mature as Marcellus, Diana, and Demetrius—is smashingly good, but diverges from the book so often that I almost wish someone would remake this as a big-budget miniseries, with younger actors to match the ages of the characters, and catch all the intricacies of its cast and its plot.
Raymond St. John, the author of the textbook I was using, American Literature For Christian Schools (my two-star review of that text is here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
(It's also somewhat surprising that Raymond St. John, a separatist Fundamentalist who elsewhere in his text expresses anti-Catholic views, doesn't attack this aspect of the book at all; he reserves his ire for Douglas' perceived association with the "Social Gospel" movement.) My own attitude toward "relics" is more skeptical; but I was able to take that element here as a sort of metaphor, and move on.
Reading this story takes the reader on a journey through Jerusalem and Greece during the crucifixion of Jesus Christ, as one learns about the Jewish cultural system of that period.
The reader is learning about history and religious doctrine without even realizing it, and one has the Gallio family intertwined into such moving, historical times.
This is historical fiction at its best!Demetrius, one of the stars of the story was down played in the movie, which disappointed me.
The reader is taken on an exciting journey with characters that will become your best friends.
Nearly the entire book after the crucifixion is a series of dialogue scenes between characters firmly establishing the Divinity of Jesus in clunky Q&A sessions.
Even after Marcellus has declared he is a Christian and is convinced, when there is a scene between him and Peter (The Fisherman), Marcellus takes on the role of Skeptic in order to elevate Peter's own divine role and give weight to the fact that Jesus Is Lord.
(hide spoiler)]Demetrius was a neat character, way more interesting than Marcellus, but imagining him as Victor Mature kinda killed it for me.In a way, this book was interesting as an insight into how the man-made religion of Christianity managed to take off and supplant all the other man-made religions of the time.
On the one hand, there are some moments in the story with real pathos and heart--but on the other, the narrative is a bit rambling, and seems to cut off suddenly rather than end.
The characters of Demetrius and Marcellus were extremely well-developed (I admit, I fell a little in love with Demetrius), and the story itself was powerful and seemed to be going somewhere.
However, once the characters have finished developing, the story continues for a couple hundred more pages.
Overall though, this was an awesome story, well worth reading and savoring, and I'll most likely be carrying the characters and scenes in my heart for some time :)
Never have I read a book more deep, more powerful, more beautiful or more moving than the Robe (Besides the bible of course;)).Reading this powerful piece of literature moved me in ways that no other book but the Bible has ever moved me.I read my Bible, God's Word, every day (Most of the time), sometimes it seems like I really can't relate to the people and stories that I read in it and I feel distant from them.
Whew! It was definitely a long book but I did enjoy this descriptive dramatic story of what might have happened to the robe of Jesus that was cast lots for. It is a realistic historical fiction book of Rome and Jerusalem, but with scriptural based underpinnings. I grew up watching this movie at Easter time and the book just reinforced the message of first century Christians.
I read this book on the recommendation of a fellow Goodreads friend.It is a story of one man's quest to find truth in a corrupted world and his transformation from a skeptic to a believer, so in a sense it is a psychological and emotional character study of the protagonist Marcellus, a Roman officer.
The catalyst for all this is his possession of Christ's robe that was won by drawing lots.I was really in the mood for a book that would take me away to another time and place, and Douglas does this very well.
This book, written in the 1940s, shows the experience of a Roman Tribune given a post in the middle of nowhere Palestine and thrown into the world of "the New Testament" without knowledge, care or concern for the world and life of the Jews.
The wonderful writing of Douglas shows through every encounter and conversation in the book.
Douglas also did a great job of explaining the parables and events of the New Testament smartly but with wisdom that was easily applicable to the reader.
4.5 star rating!A riveting historical fiction that answers the question what might have happened to Jesus' robe after His crucifixion, when the soldiers cast lots for it. Lloyd C. Douglas is a master storyteller!
(This is why belonging to a book club is so great...it makes you stretch & get out of your rut of always reading the same type of books) The story is about the Robe of Christ and a young Roman named Marcellus Gallio.
And you as the reader get to experience that with him.This is one of those books where you always remember how you felt while reading it.
Greeley first read the The Robe when he was 14 yrs old and said, "I could not put the book down.
I'm sure this book will be a different experience for each person who reads it.
It is probably the most biblical-inspired book you're going to find next to the Bible itself.
I got the to last page and just stared at the cover for three minutes, then set the book down and kept repeating "wow" in my head for the next two minutes.
And it wasn't even just how real the characters were: it was their transformations throughout the book.
Anything Else?Well, I could probably go on forever about this book.
If the book hadn't come to an end, I could have gone on reading it forever.
The people scream for the death of a man Marcellus never heard of.
In the Bible, it said after Jesus died, soldiers cast lots for His robe.
This is the crucifixion, death, and resurrection of Jesus told from a Roman soldier's perspective and its fabulous!I applaud Douglas for his historical accuracy.
He was a carpenter, most likely well built, who had black hair and brown eyes like every other Jew. I also appreciated the fact that Douglas knew his Bible and didn't show Jesus with a few whip marks on his back.
NOt by publishing date--but the first book I ever purchased for myself--at age 14 and I still have it.The story is based on Marcellus Gallo, a wealthy young Roman tribune wh oversees Christ's crucifixion.
At the end, he does join the new Christian religion--as many Romans did.The story is a bit dated; but still holds up upon re-reading.
I found the story inspirational when I first read it; but even if religion is not your interest, it is a very decent historical novel in its own right.Recommended for fans of Christian fiction; fans of historical novels--especially the ancient world.
This historical fiction follows the story of the Roman soldier who won Jesus' robe at the foot of the cross.
With devastating and life-changing results, as one might expect.I have read this several times but not for at least a decade, although I own a copy.
It is a bit repetitious, both in the telling of Marcellus's story and of lamenting the horrible conditions of most under the Roman Empire now that it has become corrupt.
However, that didn't stop the story and characters from still keeping me reading, as well as the Christian message woven throughout.
NOOOO!!!!All I wanted was a nice, happy read! I just finished Les Miserables, in which all the characters die, and a book on Gandhi, which did a really good job of making you like him and than detailed his assassination. AND NOW ANOTHER ONE!!!!(view spoiler)[My two favorite characters faded off the screen halfway through the book, and then my two replacing favorites DIE at the end!!! (hide spoiler)]Why do I have to become so emotionally involved with words???This is not my real review, just a rant until I get out of my depression. Maybe never. *sobs*
I read this book many years ago after having seen the movie. I could not put it down. It is an incredible read and journey. I highly recommend reading it, especially this Christmas season. You won't regret it.
But hands down the best thing about this book was the amazing way it showed the story of Jesus.
His decisions were all very logical, and I could always follow why he had decided to believe what he did (view spoiler)[ But I loved when he realized that not all things could just be explained with logic.
(hide spoiler)]One of the things I just loved was the way the author described the feeling of the time.
The only thing I did not like about the book was (view spoiler)[ how he explained the feeding of the five thousand.
My mother and I read this book sitting on a quilt pallet out in the heat with a pitcher of iced lemonade in the summer in Brookshire, Texas.
She read "The Robe" first and asked if I wanted to and I did, which more than anything just added to my appreciation of history, especially the history of that period.
I would recommend it to any young person brought up in a religious Christian household, which will probably extend his or her interest in religious history later perhaps leading to books such as "The Silver Chalice", "Quo Vadis", "Barabbas" by Lagerkvist, and my favorite of this sub-genre, "The Last Temptation of Christ" by Nikos Kazantzakis.
It's amazing.Marcellus Gallio, a Roman Tribune, is ordered to crucify Jesus.
During the crucifixion, he takes the Robe that Jesus wore.That dark day nearly kills Marcellus.
Marcellus travels to Galillee to learn more about this mysterious man who was crucified, taking the Robe along.This historical fiction classic tells the story of one man's quest for the meaning of life.
Full of faith, love, and adventure, this book has it all.This is not a quick and easy read, by any means, but if you are in the mood for an inspiring Christian classic, this might be the one for you.Recommended for adults and teens who enjoy classics.
RTC
Much, much better than the movie, and I liked the movie
How he gambled for Christ's Robe and won new life.Marcellus Gallio is the son of a senator and a tribune sent to Minoa to command the fort.
And when his mind is restored, he is filled with an insatiable hunger to know more of Jesus.The story is basically Marcellus encountering events from the end of the Gospels and Acts, which was really cool.
The Robe felt very authentic—it didn't feel like a caricature of Roman times the way the movie version did (which also didn't even come close to doing the story justice).
What a powerful story!
The story meanders quite a bit, and the writing is mediocre, but the subject makes up for all that.
The book was copyrighted in 1942, and my copy was from the 44th printing, just three years later!
That’s how popular it was in its time.
The inside front cover of my copy has the nameplate of Ashael and Ida Allen, who were my grandparents.
The book was already well-worn when I got it, so I keep wondering, who read it so many times?
My Grandma Allen?
Grandpa Ashael?
Somehow, all that added to the story for me.
Except for a wonderful intimate moment of eye contact between Jesus and the slave Demetrius, the reader (and Marcellus) has to pretty much learn of the life of Jesus and see him through the second hand recountings by others, it works perfectly to help you, the reader, get to know Christ as well.2.)This novel is the complete experience of everything a novel is supposed to be: Excellent characterization, believable, intriguing plot and conflict, solid sense of time and place, and a climactic ending of triumphant redemption that will leave you with tears in your eyes.
The plot follows Marcellus, a Roman legate/centurion, who crucifies Jesus Christ and later wins his robe.
Interaction with the robe causes Marcellus to go mad and eventually seek more information about mysterious Galilean.
The book interacts with many familiar faces from Acts and takes creative license in picturing the conversations, personalities, and primary stories of the early church.
Demetrius seems to be as much a main character as Marcellus, but then he quite randomly disappears for whole sections.
I also found it hard to believe the plot line of the robe.
This was a wonderful way to tell the story of Jesus, after the crucifiction and through the eyes of the people he had lived with and taught and healed, and a good reminder of what the Christian religion is truly about.
Marcellus and Demetrius were wonderful heros, I adored Diana, hated the evil Roman Emporers and thoroughly enjoyed immersing myself into the life and times of that era.
However, I enjoyed the slower pace and reminder of the many wonderful things that happened at this time.
This is the 1st book I've ever read by Lloyd C.
This is one of the best books I've ever read!
Douglas uses so many brilliant, descriptive words.
I have a huge list of words from the book that I really liked and want to learn (e.g.
Great words!I borrowed the book from the library, but now I want my own copy of the book so that next time I read it I can highlight certain phrases/descriptions/passages that I find intriguing and/or striking.Fantastic book, and definitely recommended!!!
