https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9663940-the-girl-who-leapt-through-time
I watched the anime film The Girl Who Leapt Through Time and found out that it was based on a book by Yasutaka Tsutsui.
What I love is the idea of how the future will look like & it makes the readers cherish the present.The story was about a girl named Kazuko who acquired a power of teleportation through time leap.
:) It's about Masako facing her unusual phobia, finding out how it originate & how to overcome it.The anime film was a sequel of this book but I still want to:
:'(Chiaki [anime] & Kazuo [book version] both wanted the slower & peaceful pace of the present life.
BUT NONE OF THEM EXPLAINS THINGS PROPERLY SO I’M FUCKING PISSED ABOUT IT.(We’ll get to that in a second…)My Feels:  This anime movie/manga left me crying a river on my bed.But I loved every single second of it - the emotion, characters, plot that kept me guessing, turns and twist that had me literally muttering "ah that's how it is".
I say this because I understand perfectly how rigid the confines are when it comes to translation, and that sometimes, if the two languages are different, the sentence structure and word choices can come off as weird and clunky.
The Bulgarian edition of Sloppy Firsts still makes me throw a fit, as does, as I hear, the translation to Going Postal.
They're just not given enough time to develop.I think what this book reminds me of is not so much a novella as a picture-to-word adaptation of a manga.
I've heard so much about the MOVIE "The Girl Who Leapt Through Time", so I was assuming that this book would be awesome.But it's like..
two short stories..
One of which doesn't make a lick of sense, and one that seemed utterly pointless.I really hope the magic was lost in translation, otherwise I really will have to be a little bit mean to this author....It HAS to be the translation.
Right?Because the writing felt so stilted and similar to something you would read in a children's book.
This entire book kind of felt like a book for children.
Short, pointless and without a proper start, middle or end.Nope.
They're very simple, and the translation seems rather stilted -- it comes out sounding like a book written for children to read.The first story is rather sweet, even if it is very simplistic and hand-wavey in its explanations.
I liked the last part quite a lot, actually; it made me smile.
The second story actually manages to be a little creepy here and there, and then immediately dispels it with an extremely rational explanation.Not something I'd particularly recommend, I have to say, though I might give it to a child.
The language of this book is so bland and lifeless, the characters so one-dimensional, that I'm actually left wondering if there isn't something I should know... like, were both stories originally created as anime or manga? Or are they specially dumbed down for, I don't know, people who don't usually read books? Or is it simply the matter of bad translation? I know the author's name from somewhere. He seems to be pretty famous. What's the matter? Me very confused.The cover looks great but doesn't fit the book at all.
Better in concept than execution (and not helped by flat, functional translation), and far outdone by its anime adaptation.There's a unmentioned second (unrelated) story that's nearly half the book. Sketchy move not reflecting that in the title or description. It's ok, but it's also obviously here to be filler. My rating reflects both stories of course and I'm rounding down to 2 instead of up to 3 for the issues mentioned, but let me mention that the ideas themselves are quite good. Full review: https://derailmentsofthought.wordpres...
This is one of the rare times that I find the movie adaptation (or in this case, the 2006 anime film) better than the novel.
Or perhaps it was because the novel was too short - barely 70 pages long.
Instead, because there was so much to explain about the mechanics of time travel and so few pages to do it in, much of the later part of the novel was filled with lengthy expositions.
The anime film seized the advantages that the novel neglected to, and turned out a much rounder portrayal of the characters, their motivations, and the effects of time travel.
Meh
The Girl Who Leapt Through Time  by Yasutaka Tsutsui is a small collection of two novellas, the first of the same name and the second, The Stuff That Nightmares Are Made of. I read this with my Japanese Novel and Light Novel Book Club over on GoodReads as our monthly book pick! For my review here, I’ll go ahead and review each story individually, and then share my opinions on the book as a whole.   The Girl Who Leapt Through Time   One day while cleaning the classroom after school, fifteen-year
Everything was utterly generic, which is a terrible thing in a science-fiction book, especially one that focuses so heavily on shifting surroundings involving time.Other issues include the characters.
In an effort to conquer this very peculiar fear, Masako embarks on a small psychological journey to discover the cause of her fears so she can put it behind her.The only good thing about this second novella is, once again, the premise.
Here are some musings that I had in regards to the book itself, which I strongly feel contributed to the low-quality of these stories.
Wonderful story (^_^)I've read the book ,watched the anime and now have read the manga. I really enjoyed this story a lot. Just like the movie it has it's good moments. I won't give away any details, so you just have to read the book first then the manga then the anime. Remember time waits for no one.
Tanpa ingin terdengar seperti otaku, menurut saya kartun Jepang (anime) merupakan hiburan terbaik sejagat raya, setara dengan nongkrong di warkop bareng kawan-kawan atau maen game Football Manager di kamar.
Seperti kata pepatah orang alay: "Buat apa mencari yang lain, jika kita sudah punya yang terbaik?" Tapi ada beberapa pengecualian sih.
Kemarin saya baca The Girl Who Leapt Through Time karangan Yasutaka Tsutsui, orang sama yang menulis Paprika—penikmat anime pasti familier sama dua judul ini.Jujur, penasaran banget sih enggak, tapi berhubung novela ini cukup tipis (100 hlm), gak ada ruginya saya jajal.
Mau tau kayak apa Chiaki (atau Kazuo) di buku?
S nadšením jsem si Toki o Kakeru Shōjo pustila a pamatuji si akorát to, že tam poskakovala holčička časem a že mi to až tak super nepřišlo.Teď, když jsme poskočili o deset let, kamarádka navrhla, že knihu přečteme v rámci našeho mini čtecího kroužku.I s mými velice nedokonalými anglickými schopnostmi mi knížka přišla napsaná dost stupidně.
Stylem to dost připomínalo jeho Peklo (které mi jazykově přišlo lepší) v tom, že Tsutsui akorát háže nápady a - čtenáři, dělej si s tím co chceš.
Very easy, quick read. This is, in fact, two stories. "The Girl Who Leapt Through Time" and "The Stuff that Nightmares are Made Of". They felt like they were aimed at children. The dialogue was clunky and characterisation poor. I doubt I will remember them for very long.
2015 reading challenge: a book that was originally written in a different language (43/50) Today I woke up. I brushed my teeth. Then I went to eat breakfast. I put cat food in my cats' bowls. I put dog food in my dogs' bowls. I used my cellphone. I helped to make lunch. I pet my pets. I love my pets.Oh, I'm sorry, you were expecting an actual review? So was I expecting an actual book, but instead got a "book" with a writing style similar to the very boring and very telling paragraph I just wrot
So was I expecting an actual book, but instead got a "book" with a writing style similar to the very boring and very telling paragraph I just wrote.That's right, this book 
One of them (the teacher) exists only to infodump the students!!!!The plot is so thin and underdeveloped that it's like the author had writer's block and then quickly signed into Livejournal in hopes of finding a writing prompt that sparked an idea in him.
Except that when he did find the prompt and did want to write, he didn't go further in the story!!!
Let me start off by saying that I watched the anime movie first before reading this.  Unpopular opinion (Regarding book to movie adaptation):   The movie was better than the book.Just wanted to put that out there.But let me briefly explain the storyline: The Girl Who Leapt Through Time is about a girl who got into an incident in the school science laboratory which made it possible for her to travel through time and teleport to a different place.(Possible spoilers below.)The book represents a cha
The movie was better than the book.Just wanted to put that out there.But let me briefly explain the storyline: The Girl Who Leapt Through Time is about a girl who got into an incident in the school science laboratory which made it possible for her to travel through time and teleport to a different place.(Possible spoilers below.)The book represents a character named Kazuko Yoshiyawa, who has the ability to travel through time.
It also showed her Aunt, Kazuko Yoshiyawa (the main protagonist in the book), which also helped her in the story.
It was more than four years ago had passed since I watched the film entitled The Girl Who Leapt Through Time.
So how does it feel like reading after waiting for almost five years?Its more than okay but I'm not close to actually liking it.
Let me clarify things first, the story isn't like what's been told in the movie.
That is the character of Kazuko Yoshiyama (of the book) and Makoto Konno ( of the movie); the two are actually blood related.
I wanted the first story to be melodramatic like in the movie but it wasn't.
I have yet to see the movie, but after reading this, I can't wait to see it.
The only real thing to say is that it is about a rather naive but well-meaning girl named Motoko who discovers that she has gained the ability to jump forward and backward through time.
The art is very pleasing to the eye and the story is frantic, humorous and mysterious, yet it works in spite of the relative lack of information we're provided regarding Motoko's time-leaping ability.
This is a charming little story, and if the movie is anywhere near as good as this, I know for certain I'll enjoy it.

i loved it ...sooo beautiful and i saw the movie twice ^_^ and i get alot of thing i did not get at the first time ..
The girl leaping through time is a very short story, about 100 pages and the whole book is 170. If you saw the anime movie of it, just do no expect similarities between, the book is more nostalgic and quiet. I like the writing but I would definitely liked the story be larger. The second part of the book is another story, not really awesome as the first one, but I enjoyed quite a bit.
A bittersweet and beautiful story that takes a fresh look at a time-worn (pardon the pun!) trope. What would you do if you could go back to the past and relive each day or moment over again? What happens when you go too far?There's a movie, I think, based on the same story. I'll have to check that out next, since I really enjoyed the book.
Kinh điển ? Như truyện viết cho trẻ con vậy !!!!
I liked it.The second story, The Stuff That Nightmares Are Made Of, was about a girl and her brother, who both suffer from phobias.
This story was also quite nice and sends a good message (try to confront year fears if you can), but The Girl Who Leapt Through Time was my favourite of the two, because the concept was so interesting.The friendships were something I also really liked in both stories.
I liked it and thought it added something to the story, especially for the twist in first story, The Girl Who Leapt Through Time.There is one thing however that bothered me in the translation.
I feel like this is a really difficult book to review because I can't tell if the problems were with the writing itself or the translation.
The concepts were interesting in both stories (this book actually contains two short stories), and I quite enjoyed Tsutsui's creativity.
However, the writing was...not good.
I also couldn't get a good feel for the characters, and often felt as though the clues were there but I was missing them.
I might be inclined to write this off as me missing cultural cues, but I haven't had this difficulty with other Japanese books and media.
This slim volume contains two stories, 'The Girl Who Leapt Through Time' and 'The Stuff That Nightmares Are Made Of'.When I was initially offered this book to review I wasn't sure whether to accept as it didn't sound like the sort of thing I normally read.
There are some deeper issues underlining the very simple story, such as warnings about the future and the outcome of scientific advancements, however I found the general storyline puzzling and struggled to remain interested about what was actually happening throughout .The second story in the book is called 'The Stuff That Nightmares Are Made Of' is about another young girl called Masako who tries to confront her fears, at the same time as helping her little brother who's scared of strange things he sees at night.
For one thing, the book is actually two novellas, and only the first is what was adapted in the film.
What stood out most to me here was Tsutsui's ability to manipulate my expectations and surprise me several times throughout the short novella without any cheap twists for shock value.
I'm a bit embarrassed to admit that I found the horror parts pretty scary, but the way everything came together in the end was unexpected and beautifully orchestrated.Throughout the book, I appreciated Tsutsui's blunt, straightforward style and his ability to richly depict the settings through such a minimalist approach.
(And besides which--what's the deal with the importance of pudding in Anime?)  I have no idea which came first, but I found the structure of the written text much more...what?
The second story perpetuates the old Hollywood/pop psychology myth (and it is a myth!) that if you understand why you're afraid of what you're afraid of, your phobia will automatically vanish.
In many ways the published novellas read like a first draft of the translation, which does a terrible disservice to the author of the original.Having said that, I see the author has another book entitled "Salmonella Men on Planet Porno," so what do I know?
The Girl Who Leapt Through Time is an amazingly popular story in Japan -- there's been a manga, a theatrical anime, a TV movie, a TV series, and three live action film adaptations in the last thirty years.
I suspect the problem lies in the translation, which feels stiff and over-literal.Since the story is little more than a novelette, the publisher added a second story to the book, The Stuff Nightmares Are Made Of. This is about a Japanese school girl who suffers a number of phobias.
DA DIẾT.Không phải lần đầu mình đọc LN viễn tưởng, nhưng là lần đầu thấy mọi thứ thật mà giả, giả mà thật Kazuko ,một cô bé bình thường bỗng có siêu năng lực dịch chuyển tức thời .
Là lời cuối của Kazuko lúc chia tay " không...tớ...nhất định sẽ biết ...đó là cậu." Mình có 1 điểm cộng và 1 điểm (chưa) trừ cho tp này.1.
Điểm (chưa) trừ: Vẫn biết LN ngắn nhưng ko nghĩ nó ngắn đến thế, đọc không đã ahuhu.Và cuối cùng, điểm cộng ngoài lề cho cách trình bày và design bìa cực hút mắt.
