https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6834410-the-imperfectionists
This just in, Tom Rachman has given readers an exceptional set of stories about the birth and death of a newspaper, populated these tales with engaging characters and done so with great style and feeling.The core here is a Rome-based English-language international newspaper.
I found that I was able to identify more than a couple of real people from my life who corresponded to the characters in his stories.
Like any good reporter Rachman has given us the information we need, the who, what, where, when and why, but he has enriched the telling with an emotional content, showing us the stories behind the people behind the stories.
Rachman, over and over again, convinced me to care about his characters and their relationships.
Neither, however, can I agree that Rachman "creates a diverse cast of fully realized characters." They may have diverse physical descriptions, but all speak with exactly the same voice.
He even has one character, supposedly from Georgia, repeatedly use the word "proper" as a generic modifier, as in, "a proper shower" or "a proper relationship." Um, is Atlanta the seat of county called Georgia in England that I'm unaware of?
Utlimately, that makes the experience of reading this book extraordinarily unpleasant, like being repeatedly kicked in the face by someone wearing really nice shoes.
Eleven connected short stories each featuring a member of staff at a moment of crisis of an English-language newspaper in Rome.
It’s largely a narrative about compromise, the betrayal of ideals.
There might be a fair few ex-pats in Italy but hardly enough to support a daily newspaper.
There isn’t the detail that a true ex-pat would be able to bring to the narrative.
He knows his map of Rome well but his connection with the city seems no less superficial than that of a tourist.
The daily grind and neurosis of running a newspaper, on the other hand, he clearly knows very well.
Yes, the use of the interlocking characters have been used by Elizabeth Strout in her Pulitzer award-winning book Olive Kitteridge, the use of the chapters with different protagonists then later they will be meeting each other is similar to Jennifer Egan’s A Visit from the Good’s Squad  and the stylist use of storytelling where two or more stories told in parallel or in circuit then meeting in the end or at some point in the narration is similar to David Mitchell’s Cloud Atlas, Michael Syjuco’s Ilustrado or even to Samantha Sotto’s Before Ever After.
The "award-winning" part wasn’t all that important (though obviously not some unwelcome kudos) because I have loved print journalism in ways one should never love an inanimate intangible ever since the gateway drug that was my mediocre private university's labor-of-love, student-run newspaper showed me what I was meant to do with my life, a certainty that was cemented by the soaring pride I felt when our Little Paper That Could beat the piss out of Princeton's college paper in the New Jersey Press Awards the year I was opinion editor.When I graduated as a bright-eyed, enthusiastic young drunk, the only tears I shed during the ceremonial severance from the first place that ever felt like home were over saying goodbye to the paper that had directed me to my future path (and, for bonus sentimentalization, introduced me to my husband).
Horrid, depressing book about horrid, depressing people. Completely worthless. I can't even summon the desire to write a long review with quotes and burning passion.Horrible.
The novel certainly arms itself with the age-old "Anxiety" plot device-- that which specifically dictates that the certain, if fated, meeting between characters A and B, once A's destiny has been discovered and B's is barely in-the-process-of...
Better than Jennifer Egan's over-lauded "Goon Squad", this is yet another modern short story collection tied up neatly, thematically.
Not to mention affairs, public humiliations, singular in situations, all the characters; all stories unique in dramatic pitch.That being said, it is the second story that makes it to Jhumpa Lahiri territory (for no modern short stories can compare with her Interpreter of Maladies-- none).
I said to myself at least twice while reading this, "I hate this book." In the last 50 pages, I found some enjoyable sequences, especially the air plane ride between Abbey and the man she had just fired.
Other than that story, it was not very enjoyable reading, unless perhaps one works for a newspaper and enjoys the personalities in that trade.Overall, I could not relate to the characters or the plot, which was presented in such a disjointed manner.
Kind of like listening to the audio book of Margaret Atwood's The Blind Assassin without seeing the chapter headings or the table of contents.
The chapter headings are deceptively timely and clever, but the plot did not live up to them.
In “The Imperfectionists” the paper is the common denominator.
All the stories are the viewpoint of a Staffer.Interspersed with the viewpoint chapters are two or three page vignettes of the founder and his son and grandson as they each in turn take over the paper.
This strand of DNA skeletons through the book putting the life of the paper and its purpose in context.
The life force seems to dilute as the son and then the grandson stifle their own dreams and try to recast themselves as a replica of the founder, they are not true to themselves.
I whizzed through this highly entertaining debut by Tom Rachman wondering how on earth he'll be able to follow it.
The Imperfectionists is funny and tender both, Rachman's fondness for his characters with all their failings and foibles comes roaring through, and the man has an uncanny eye, oops, no, sorry that should be ear shouldn't it?
for a perfectly pitched dialogue.
Re-read: Only two of the characters seem a tad overdone, too long in the oven.
But it stands up well, Rachman's warmth comes through.Now I'm making notes, because I have to lend my copy to one of the ladies.
<3333” Immediately, every freakin' person who came in my store was like, “Do you have...*desperate sigh* The Imperfectionists?” And then I had to tell them it was backordered because the publishers hadn't expected Christopher Buckley to propose marriage to Tom Rachman in The New York Times and therefore hadn't printed enough copies.
So that was fun.Nevertheless, I really wanted to read this book, too, because 1) it's about journalists, 2) it's set in Italy, 3) it's got a great title, and 4) it had Christopher Buckley offering to deep-throat the author in the national press.
not necessarily because I enjoyed every single moment of the novel, but because I thought it was an interesting look at the fascinating and rather endangered industry of newspaper publication.Then a dog was killed and I'm sorry, but I immediately experienced a flash-back to my six-year-old self, uncontrollably sobbing because a story I was reading started with the drowning of a kitten.
I'm a terrible, unacceptably biased reviewer and I'm sorry.The Imperfectionists, aside from being a novel where a dog is murdered, focuses on the employees of an English-language newspaper based out of Rome.
Oh for the Love of All that is Holy!
Please, someone, tell me that Rachman earned more than a 3.5 from the Goodreads community on 'The Imperfectionists'!
Is it the irreverence, the flip attitude, the turn of a(n) intellectual phrase?
The Washington Post calls it 'beguiling' - You're killin' me here!
Maybe you've seen Broadcast News, or that flick that Glenn Close was in years ago in which she played the likeness of Kathleen Graham?
The Imperfectionists exposes every wart, every risk, every weakness, and every delight of the news business.
The pieces in between the chapters/stories seemed like they were supposed to be sustaining the narrative thread of the paper's history and development, but I just found it all supremely boring, and none of the characters who existed and then died solely within these italicized sidebars meant anything to me.
I did like the very ending of the epilogue: it made me pause and reflect on the meaning and purpose of what had come before, but wasn't ultimately enough to change my mind about any of it.
Tom Rachman’s perfect debut novel The Imperfectionists consists of a series of interconnected short stories about people linked by an English-language international newspaper based in Rome, each chapter neatly self-contained but simultaneously referring to previous tales and containing clues to ensuing ones.
It’s one of the greatest books I’ve ever read.Rachman once worked as an editor at The International Herald Tribune, but the fictional international newspaper — founded by enigmatic millionaire Cyrus Ott for reasons only hinted at until the last chapter and now teetering on insolvency with a circulation of merely 10,000— bears little resemblance to the legendary Paris-based newspaper.
I found myself devouring each chapter/short story, each a witty gem where even the tiny details served to reveal the subject’s inner character.
Yes, yes it does.If you like the kind of review that captures the essence of a book in a pithy soundbite, I can offer you: "the 2010 version of "Then We came to the End", this year's "Olive Kittredge", or "Scoop" for the 21st century.It's just as easy to give you the uncoded description.
There is an elegaic feel to the book which makes it a pleasure to read, even as Gotterdammerung approaches and things in the newsroom are getting progressively darker.
Rachman's story has a little more razzmatazz (naked bodies and naked ambition, suave Roman suitors, fancy cocktails), which makes it more fun to read than the O'Nan book.
This novel is a series of interconnected stories about the staff members of an English-language newspaper published in Rome.
Though the atmosphere and history of the paper are important, and I enjoyed those sections between chapters, the truly brilliant aspect of this book is the characterization.
The highlights for me were the relationship between publisher Oliver Ott and his dog Schopenhauer, stringer Warren Cheung's encounter with the strangely manipulative and carefree Snyder, reader Ornella's obsession with reading the paper in its entirety no matter how long it takes, and Herman Cohen's friendship with Jimmy, who has not become the man Herman expected him to be.
This book is just absolutely fantastic, and I can't wait for Tom Rachman to write his second novel.
I'd be grinning like a crazed despot if I had managed to produce such a polished and textured effort as my first novel.The book is a series of interconnected short stories, revolving around the lives of staffers at a newspaper in Rome.
Each character is fully fleshed and loaded with enough foibles, fears and frailties to easily fill a novel of his or her own.
Though the book is loaded with comedic situations, an overwhelming theme of sadness permeates.
This was a great collection of interconnected short stories. I loved the characters and English language Italian newspaper as a backdrop. I had a hard time putting this one down and was disappointed when it ended,
Rachman had an ear for dialogue and knew how to keep the pacing up, so that I honestly had trouble stopping unless I reached the end of a story.Want an example of the writing?The paper's most loyal reader, Ornella de Monterrecchi, trooped down to headquarters to demand that closure be reconsidered.
Yes, there are more details than that (I actually did read all of these and finished this story), but I couldn't muster much interest, honestly.And one more thing that bugged me: the "backdrop" of Rome.
I don't want to read about characters I am made to like doing stupid things over and over and over again.
There is a love story triangle between Betty, Leo, and the newspaper's founder, Ott. The reader is cued early on, but over the years the journalists, editors, and descendents of Ott are in the dark about the reasons he started this floundering paper.
The interview on the street is hilarious, as Snyder gets Winston to do his bidding and ask harassing questions to a burka-clad woman.There is also a touching story about a middle-aged, uxorious editor living with his young, pert girlfriend in Rome.
In life, when you encounter people, you and they have separate trajectories, each person pushing in a different direction.
And this stirs compassion that, in real life, is so often obscured by our own motives."I think this speaks so accurately of this book.
Each chapter follows a different character working at an English-language newspaper in Rome.
My only issue with the book was the sort of historical narrative that would conclude each chapter.
You got two or three pages of a linear history of the newspaper after each character's story.
And these, in themselves, told the story of the newspaper.
This is yet another entry in the category of books that are supposed to be literary fiction, but are poorly written and so clunkily plotted and presented that they barely resemble the heights of the genre.
The Imperfectionists describes the staff of a barely-surviving English-language newspaper in Italy, each chapter devoted to a different person.
And they're all stereotypes; nuanced this book is not.
For example, one chapter is about a nice girl dating a loser, because she's desperate.
He's such a loser that he's a caricature of a bad boyfriend, and she's so desperate that she's a parody of a pathetic spinster.
not my cup of tea.
i need heart in my books.
love.
i need love.
if you are witty and biting and cool and write with corners and edges, you are not for me.
you may be a really good writer, but you are not for me.
cuz me, i need love.
and now suddenly i'm unsure about whether tom rachman wrote this with wit, bitingness, corners, and edges.
maybe he didn't.
maybe i suck at short stories.
i don't know.
i just didn't feel the warmth of love -- the milk of human kindness.
the author's love for his characters.
3 and 1/2 starsI've read a few reviews that mention this novel reads like a group of interrelated short stories and I can see that, though I don't really agree, as I don't believe the chapters are fully realized enough to stand on their own, nor were they meant to be, as they are intended to be 'chapters' in the history of the newspaper first and foremost.
At the start, I was impressed with Rachman's story-portraits and finished the first few chapters breathless for the next one.
But the characters' all too human flaws gradually laid me low, until I wondered if and worried that we're all as sad-lonely-desperate-petty-conniving-selfish-cruel as these people are.
Which is not to say that the characters aren't worth getting to know.
The humor and satire did not escape me, but...I don't know, I think the Arthur chapter broke my heart and I never recovered.
And the final incident in the Oliver chapter was too much for me.
I can't say I've read a book this HUMAN in a long time.
Each one of the characters was whacked out in some totally believable way, yet I could relate to each of them in some weird way.
I loved the inner dialogue of some of them, in particular Abby, the Accounts Payable person.
Rachman gives just enough details for you to really get the feel of a character, yet leaves plenty of space for you to imagine them as well.
I loved this book.
I will read it again someday.Another book in the "Best of 2011".
Rating: 4* of fiveMy four-star review is, at its simplest level, an exhortation to read this very good book.http://tinyurl.com/n66zcsvMy reason for finally, four years later, writing the review is simply that it's on Kindle-sale in the US for $1.99. It's hard to find used books for that little money. It's hard to find a book I'd more strongly urge you to read for that kind of dosh.
Description: Set against the gorgeous backdrop of Rome, Tom Rachman’s wry, vibrant debut follows the topsy-turvy private lives of the reporters, editors, and executives of an international English language newspaper as they struggle to keep it—and themselves—afloat.Fifty years and many changes have ensued since the paper was founded by an enigmatic millionaire, and now, amid the stained carpeting and dingy office furniture, the staff’s personal dramas seem far more important than the daily headlines.
Kathleen, the imperious editor in chief, is smarting from a betrayal in her open marriage; Arthur, the lazy obituary writer, is transformed by a personal tragedy; Abby, the embattled financial officer, discovers that her job cuts and her love life are intertwined in a most unexpected way.
I rarely feel that way, but apparently, that is the experience I'm looking for when I open a novel.
This is a novelized set of short stories tied together by the history of a newspaper and its demise, and each chapter focuses on a figure related to the paper.
Sometimes the chapter/story would end and I'd find that all of the sudden, I felt deep compassion for these fictional characters, and I was sad to see each of them go despite/because of their quirks and bad choices.
Rachman is a powerful storyteller and I can't believe this is his first novel!
