https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149418.The_Lantern_Bearers
I'm more discomfitted than I can explain immediately by the replacement of her slight, bromance-y young Romans with the solemn, aggrieved Turin Turambar-like figure (with some key differences) who is the protagonist of the story.
The Lantern Bearers is significantly darker than The Silver Branch, which in its turn was much darker than The Eagle of the Ninth -- indeed, a third of the way through the youngest Aquila's fate, you can only think wistfully back to Marcus and Esca scrabbling through marshlands pretending to be oculists in wistful remembrance of how jolly it must all have been.
But Sutcliff writes magnificently, sadly, achingly, and so often I felt a dull sense of sadness with Aquila and the rest at the thought of how it must have been for the Romans to leave, abandon, Britain and let them fend off the Saxons alone.
I didn't know, when I started this book, where Aquila's story would take him.Unfamiliar as I am with this part of British Roman history, I drank in the strong history storyline, wondering with pounding heart what *does* happen.
so many characters that warmed my heart and made me love them like old friends.Now, I must lay my hand on another Rosemary Sutcliff!
Set in Britain at the time on Rome's withdrawal.Aquila is a decurion who deserts, unable to leave his family, hiding as the boats leaving Britain pull away.Returning home, the family's small homestead is attacked by Saxons, everyone killed except for Aquila and his sister Flavia.
I read the book all the way through in one sitting.
It was simply that good.Recommended for anyone with an interest in Romano-Celtic Britain.
It also plays nicely into Arthurian legend.Though the book is what we would today call 'Young Adult', there is no talking down to the reader.
"The Lantern Bearers" is readable by all ages.Highly recommended.
I loved Aquila, the broken, bitter Dolphin.
I loved the Minnow, and Tess, and Flavia.
Tess and Flavia will have a place in my heart, maybe a sad one but a place nonetheless.
Morning always grows out of the darkness, though maybe not for the people who saw the sun go down.
We are the Lantern Bearers, my friend; for us to keep something burning, to carry what light we can forward into the darkness and the wind.' Aquila was silent a moment, and then he said an odd thing: 'I wonder if they will remember us at all, those people on the other side of the darkness.'"
A good read but I enjoyed the first two books in the series more.Cleanliness: the use of "b*st*rd" for an illegitimate child.
Contains multiple battle sequences and they are more detailed than the previous books.
The main character struggles with hatred and bitterness for most of the book.*Note: I listened to the audio version of this book so this Cleanliness Report is not as thoroughly detailed as other reports are.
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
It's the usual fare for Rosemary Sutcliff: a well researched story set in post-Roman Britain, drawing on real sources -- Geoffrey of Monmouth's Historia, mostly, but perhaps also Wace and Layamon's Bruts.
The feeling in The Silver Branch of being near the end of things is strong and central, here, and there are personal notes of melancholy, too: Aquila's inability to care for people after Flavia, his difficulties with his son, and the eventual strange meeting between himself and Flavia's son.Perhaps, as a child, I just didn't like the thought of the twilight of the Roman world.
I didn't like The Silver Branch as much then as I do now, either.
Maybe to hold back the dark for one more night.”Heading back to his family home, he barely has any time with his beloved sister and father when the Saxons invade and take everything.
Except instead of Marcus, with his "kingfisher summer" of friends and quintessential resilience, we have Aquila, by far the darkest, brooding, and least nice of Sutcliff's heroes.This is a hard book to read.
I think my favorite part of this one is the way Sutcliff draws the lives of women.
(The one exception is Rowena; I could have happily done without that particular trope.)I have no idea why this book--which spends more time following its protagonist in his 30s than in his teens--is classified as YA.
But it is, and I loved it as a teen, so apparently the publishers were on to something.
Set in the fifth century AD, amid the chaos that followed upon the departure of the Roman legions from Britain, it tells the story of the impact of the Saxon invasion on one Romano-British family, and in particular on one of its members, Aquila, descendant of Marcus, the hero of The Eagle Of The Ninth.As always, Sutcliff's writing is dense and richly detailed, particularly her keenly-observed and evocative descriptions of nature.
It's a remarkable flight of imaginative reconstruction and a wonderful piece of story-telling.
The decline and fall of Roman Britain in painful, angsty detail.
Aquila is a fascinating character here - not really hero or even antihero, but a complicated man with complicated loyalties.
Compared to the straightforward soldiers of the previous books, he is quite a bit deeper and darker, and he's on his own here - although he attaches himself to Ambrosius, who would be King of Britain (if it weren't for those pesky Saxons...) this is not a buddy book like the previous two.The writing is magnificent.
Sutcliff brilliantely uses themes of family and loyalty, and images of light against the oncroaching darkness.
So, the third of the series.
Now, the Romans finally leave Britains.
Not all, one of them remains to live and protect his home.
But it's a battle he can't win.
His house and family are gone so he tries to make a new start.
The epic battle against invading Saxons, the tragedy of the protagonist, his interaction with the other characters...it's all pretty good.
Although most of the other characters are not really explored.
In fact I expected something more from a certain cavalry officer.
Also the darkness of the lead character’s personal life following the murder of his family and rape of his beloved sister by the invading Saxons.The same night the last Romans leave Britain, Aquila, the lead character, deserts his legion and as they sail away he lights up the lighthouse which has shone every night of the Roman era and will never shine again.
Especially when compared with bleakly hopeless tragedy and bitter, angry, vengeful loners like Aquila.
I didn't think I was huge fan of bleakly hopeless tragedy and angry loners like Aquila, but maybe I was kidding myself.
Or maybe I'm just realizing anew how brilliant Rosemary Sutcliff's writing is.
She built characters that are relatable and accessible, and yet true to their own time.
Morning always grows out of the darkness, though maybe not for the people who saw the sun go down.
The heart breaks for Aquila and his multiple losses and the bludgeoning effect they have on him and his emotions, and Sutcliff's description of the grinding, unending battles that follow to drive the Saxons out give a real feel for what life must have been like in that time.I also love it that Aquila and Ambrosius are fully aware that they are struggling to hold back the dark, civilization holding the line against the barbarian horde.
It's also physics, nature abhors a vacuum, the Romans pulled out and the Saxons moved in.I feel like I just stepped out of a time machine.
This is a retelling of the story of the period of King Arthur's beginnings, while he was still a child through young man.
Only to have the Saxons swoop down on his home, slaughter his father and father's dog and other servants Aquilla has grown up with, leave him to be eaten by wolves, and drag off his 16 year old sister.
However, his bitterness comes between him and his wife and son until the end of the book when things are put right in a perfect ending.
Outstanding writing by a great writer of historical fiction. I think the following quote explains her success as a children's author: "My books are for children of all ages, from nine to ninety."I only wish she'd written more from a woman's perspective, as she gives us tantalising glimpses of their life at this time. Apart from that, she brings the social and political history to life so vividly that you almost believe she's been there and lived through it herself.
"I believe that we shall hold the barbarians off for a while, and maybe for a long while, though--not forever....It was once told me that the great beacon light of the Rutupiae was seen blazing on the night AFTER the last of the Eagles flew from Britain.
"It may be that night will close up over us in the end, but I believe that morning will come again.
Morning always grows again out of the darkness, though maybe not for the people who saw the sun go down.
Interesante…me cautivo otra vez Aquila; ya hace rato había leído “El Águila de la Novena Legión” y más reciente “El Usurpador del Imperio” que son respectivamente la primera y segunda parte de esta; la tercera y última obra de la trilogía. Luego sigue “Una espada al atardecer donde ya las legiones romanas son historia en Britania y empieza a forjarse la leyenda del Rey Arturo.Fascinante las descripciones de los paisajes britanos por parte de Rosemary Sutcliff sin descuidar la trama interna de los protagonistas.
Really solid book and a fitting conclusion to the trilogy. It stands on its own, taking place several generations after the previous book. Still kinda young adult, but I wonder how it reads for a teenager. The teen hero of the story's beginning has grown and become a father with his own teen son by the later chapters. What starts as a youthful revenge story ends in a much more complex and nuanced web of conflicting loyalties.
(In her essay "History is People," Sutcliff spoke disparagingly of a certain modern trend in historical fiction: "Personally, I find it destroys the atmosphere when a young Norman Knight says to his Squire, 'Shut ip, Dickie, you're getting too big for your boots.'") In "Combined Ops," an essay she wrote about how she came to create "The Lantern Bearers," Sutcliff names her main historical guides as two books by Trelawney Dayrell Reed: "The Battle for Britain in the Fifth Century" and "The Rise of Wessex." I leave it to others who know more than I do about British history to say how historically accurate her novels were at the time she wrote them.
The Lantern Bearers is more a story about one man's journey of self-discovery and forgiveness than it is a prequel to the Arthurian legend we all know and love.My Thoughts:I really enjoyed this book.
He doesn't make it easy for those around him to like him, but we, the readers with access to his self-doubt and distress, can't help but sympathize.While Aquila is by far the centerpoint of this story, there are several meaningful and well-constructed secondary characters.
This book is intensely about change and hope in the wide scope of a country's history, while telling that story in marvellous, dramatic and realistic close-up of one man's life.
But for himself, now, in this present moment, he seemed to have come to a quiet place in which to rest a little before going on.
I confess, as I read through the first half of the book, I didn't think I was going to enjoy "The Lantern Bearers" nearly as much as some of Sutcliff's other novels, like "The Eagle of the Ninth" or "The Shield Ring." And in a way that opinion continued to the end; Sutcliff's writing didn't seem up to scratch, and it's hard to invest in a character as bitter as Aquila.And yet at about the halfway mark, about where Ness comes in, I found myself wrapped up in the story and enjoying it almost as much as any other Sutcliff book.
The third volume in Rosemary Sutcliff’s Roman Britain Trilogy, THE LANTERN BEARERS is set roughly 300 years after her first, THE EAGLE OF THE NINTH in around 427 AD.
18-year-old Aquila is just starting out on life, and has spent a year as a commander of the Rhenus Horse Auxiliary Cavalry.
Eventually, however, he finds a certain kind of peace, and the last image of the book is both consoling and realistic.
This book won the Carnegie Medal in 1959.
More than just a fictional account of history, this book engages the reader at a deep level, forcing us to feel the agony of the difficult choices Aquila has to make.
I read this book when I was in college...
(40 years ago...
I may try to read it again, but it made a huge impact on me.
It was about a young man whose family was killed/abducted by an invading army.
When he comes across his sister, she has married one of the "ravishers," has a child by him, and is unwilling to leave her family.
This book really made an impression on me, making me see the real-life impact of war, and the shades of gray in conqueror/vanquished.
There aren't many books that I remember from 40 years ago.
I really liked this book.
After a spate of turgid and poorly written futures texts, I thought that i would escape into the fantasy of a well written children's book.
The book itself is all Rosemary Sutcliff - adventure, implausible co-incidences, and plenty of noble deeds.
Actually, I quite like that.
It makes a change from what I read in the newspapers.The edition that I read was a fine edition from the Folio Society.
Not only is it a pleasure to read a good book, but to do so with a lovingly designed and produced book is a sheer delight.
Wonderful - one of my favorites.Content: Several violent scenes. In one scene the main character is stripped by his male captives. His sister is carried away by raiders and it is later revealed that she has a child - only mentions her captive as 'her man', not her husband this scenario is unclear and never elaborated (younger readers may miss it entirely). Several good characters die. Main character is in an unhappy marriage-but it gets resolved.
Aquila's love for his homeland, Britain, causes him to take a decision that turns his life upside down and changes him forever. Then a chance incident many years later brings him peace and some closure. A wonderful read.
Another fantastic book by Sutcliff!
Great sequel
