https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2577735-cronica-da-casa-assassinada
Wow. This novel is an utterly lush, hyperventilating, humid, and vividly rendered story, of people tearing one another apart.
I loved it.
Quite apart from the story, the novel approaches greatness because of the very different voices in which the story reveals itself--in fragments of letters and diaries and accounts, told from the points of view of many characters, each with his or her own prejudices and gaps in knowledge.
Each voice is unique and each adds to the story in unexpected ways.This was a very enjoyable read for me.
The marriage of the youngest son Valdo to Nina, a sensuous, fashionable and captivating young woman from Rio, at first seems to breath life into the family, only in practice to accelerate its demise.The story is told by the different family members, and those connected with them - servants, a priest, doctor and pharmacist - via letters, diaries, written reports and confessions.
I was drawn to Chronicle of the Murdered House following the Mookse and Gripes group following of the Best Translated Book prize. I'm very glad to have read this (originally) 1959 Brazilian work. The translation was excellent I thought.The events, the happenings, at Chacara are not in themselves fast moving or incident filled. This does not diminish the powerful messages; there's a brooding, atmospheric, claustrophobic, feel to the story; A sense of foreboding is present throughout.Among the dysfunctional Meneses family, suspicion, neurosis, persecution, self doubt and duplicity abound.Freudians will have a field day putting the pieces together!A great read.
I should note that I didn’t buy this book. I attended the 2017 MLA convention here in Philly. On the last day of the convention the publisher representative, who was actually the president or someone high up in the structure, was dishing out the books for free. Take as many as you want free. So being the book slut that I am, of course I did. Open Letter, the publisher, has a new fan and not because the books were free. Because this book is wonderful.  Cradoso’s novel chronicles the fall of a fa
On the last day of the convention the publisher representative, who was actually the president or someone high up in the structure, was dishing out the books for free.
Take as many as you want free.
Open Letter, the publisher, has a new fan and not because the books were free.
It is one of those families that you can find a gothic book.
A reviewer on a cover blurb makes reference to Faulkner, though the reference is somewhat misleading because Cradoso to my mind is the better writer.
Cradoso dazzles because the story is the center point, not the ability to dazzle.
What a revelation! This book has every feature of a classic drama. This against the setting of a provincial town in Brazil. One setting, a few dramatic personages, a lot of themes that play a part in it and around which the drama unfoulds. The story is constructed from different statements from the different persons so you get a clear vision of it from every angle. What one tries to hide, is revealed by another... I'll look to more english translations of the work of Cardoso.
An extraordinary novel that elicits strong emotions... The unexpected events and the madness of the characters accompany the reader on a roller-coaster of an emotional journey. I have been captivated throughout the reading, from the first word to the last word; unable to put down the book for a second, if not for life's other obligations.
this, father, must be the devil's main talent: stripping reality of any fiction and placing it naked, in all its importance and anxiety, in the very center of a person's being. magnificent in every regard, lúcio cardoso's 1959 familial masterpiece, chronicle of the murdered house (crônica da casa assassinada), is a superlative novel deserving of a much wider english audience than it'll likely enjoy. the brazilian author (novelist, poet, and playwright), a dear friend and inspiration to clarice
magnificent in every regard, lúcio cardoso's 1959 familial masterpiece, chronicle of the murdered house (crônica da casa assassinada), is a superlative novel deserving of a much wider english audience than it'll likely enjoy.
chronicle of the murdered house is the tale of the meneses clan, a once proud family in possession of a large estate which, like the family itself, has fallen into disrepair with the passing years.
from its rich language to its impossibly conceived characters, its propulsive plot to its existential musings on god and goodness, chronicle of the murdered house is an absolutely exceptional work of fiction.
This book starts with the corpse at its end and leads us on a doomed journey along two time periods, approximately two decades apart, that detail the crumbling of a once-wealthy house, both in terms of its architecture and its family line, as it rots from sin and corruption.
Achronologically and circuitously told, the events can be a little hard to keep straight, but everything happens twice anyway in a mirroring technique that underscores the gothic fatalism of the estate's collapse.
The pacing is appropriately dirgelike, but the reading experience is never burdensome thanks to constantly shifting narrative perspectives and to another fantastic translation job by Margaret Jull Costa.
The opening of the book is the last entry from Andre's diary, written when he was 15, and tells of his last view of Nina -- as a corpse.
The rest of the book is primarily about Nina, who is not a particularly likeable character, although she is charismatic and beautiful.But this is more than the story of Nina and how she helped speed the decay of the Meneses family.
If I were to rate this solely on the story, it would be a two star read.
But I was really fascinated by how the author told the story.
Para contar a história da decadência de uma família da aristocracia rural mineira, o autor mescla várias vozes e gêneros narrativos.
Cartas dos personagens, confissões e bilhetes são algumas peças desse quebra-cabeça.
O enredo se constrói a partir dessa fragmentação e da contradição dos diferentes pontos de vista.
Lúcio penetra no reduto de uma sociedade dissimulada e hipócrita, é de dentro da casa que ele traz à tona toda a podridão e imoralidade da tradicional família mineira e católica.
Além de enfrentar a sociedade, o autor teve de enfrentar os conflitos internos que surgiram pelo fato de ser muito religioso.
This long and twisty book will take some thinking about before I can write anything useful. For now, it's easy to say that Benjamin Moser's introduction provides, in a succinct way, key biographical details while also outlining Lúcio Cardoso's connection to Clarice Lispector. For those who want to see where the brazillian novel was in the late 1950s this is a worthwhile read. One of the translators is Margaret Jull Costa, who has also translated Marías, Pessoa, and Saramago.Long review now available here:http://winnipegreview.com/2017/07/the...Also, I only read this book once, not twice as Goodreads has it.
Contado a partir dos pontos de vista de diversos personagens em cartas, memórias, confissões e depoimentos, "Crônica da Casa Assassinada" trata da queda de uma tradicional família do interior de Minas.
A casa onde os principais personagens vivem é a metáfora para a decadência e ruína desta família.
Os personagens (Timóteo, Nina, Ana, Valdo, André, Demétrio, o Coronel, etc.) são tão bem desenvolvidos que parecem ser pessoas conhecidas e próximas.
O final da trama tem algumas soluções que pioram um pouco o livro, mas não chegam a comprometer o resultado.
Em suma, é uma deliciosa experiência.
A escrita de Lúcio Cardoso provoca um estranhamento permanente. O narrador constrói vários pontos de vista para contar a história da família Meneses e de sua residência, ambos em processo de destruição.
I loved this book. It was twisted and beautiful, at times it was repulsive and at other times it was splendid. I have many thoughts on the characters and whether Cardoso captured the meaning within them he wanted to, but the intrigue is worth it. Go read this.
Livro pesado, mas retrata bem a família brasileira.
I would classify this one as "Brazilian Gothic," concerning as it does familiar tropes such as the crumbling mansion, decayed aristocracy, madness, the grotesque, and family secrets. Cardoso's writing is appropriately lush and overripe to bursting, and quite a pleasure to read. Unfortunately, I think he stretches the story too thin and spends too much time wallowing in angst and deranged mental states, to a point that became monotonous.
Everything else was the problem.The story was told through diary entries from people who were central characters to the plot.
If the chapters didn't title themselves after whoever was writing the entry or letter I wouldn't be able to tell them apart.All of the characters in this book are not people I would've cared to read about in hindsight.
In fact, I wish Cardoso had decided to scrap the "incest" plot point and use the more scandalous secret that Ana kept as what the story circled upon.
André in his diary is questioning the meaning of it all — love, life, death — and mourning his lover, Nina, a paragon of beauty and life struck down too young (although in these early pages it's not clear whether by illness or something more nefarious).
Chronicle of the Murdered House is a love story, a tragedy, a family drama, a morality tale, a mystery, and a horror story.This is the story of Nina and her effect on the Meneses family (I started pronouncing them the "menaces").
Nina' arrival changes everything.Curiosity #1: The house of the title.
4.5 stars
I had trouble getting started with this book, and had to renew it with the Berkeley Library twice. By the last third I was hooked. It is a complex book, taking place in multiple times, told by multiple characters in first person confessions, journals, and letters. I would like to offer this as a downpayment on a longer review that will do justice to it.
Livro incrível. Discute temas delicadíssimos a fundo e cheio de sabedoria. É daqueles livros pra ler sem pressa, atento a tudo e de coração aberto pra entender, e não julgar.
She bears Valdo a son and then flees back to Rio alone, leaving the Meneses family to moulder in their petty resentments and personal feuds.
Nina wants to relive the passion of years past, while Andre, who never really knew his mother, is unaware that he is standing in for his father.Unbeknownst to everyone at Chacara, when Nina returns she has a virulent form of cancer, which will kill her before too long.
Before long, Andre chastises his father and the runs away, never to return, and his father, Valdo, eventually decides that he, too, must leave Chacara.
I guess I was waiting for the right time to pick it up, I’m not sure… I’m generally one of those read as soon as I get it kinda gals, but I held off.
I can’t believe I’m not hearing more about it, and seeing it on more shelves… It’s one of those stories that you know isn’t going to end well (see the title, and also, you start with the end in a way…), but you need to keep reading to see how everything unfolds.
This was a really interesting book, the writer creates a really believable reality that is incredibly dense like a fog telling the story of a family in severe decline somewhere in rural Brazil. My only problem with this story is that he creates this textured deep reality and at some point it feels like the story stalls out and loses the wonder that makes turning pages which came so easily at the beginning a little harder. Still definitely worth reading, a complete picture of a whole new world.
A strange, grotesque novel populated by strange, grotesque characters. At times I felt that the novel was running in place or going in circles, albeit those circles were artfully crafted. Mostly, however, this is a book set in a Wuthering Heights-like haunted house: haunted not by the dead but by the living. The novel is inherently about rot and slow, agonizing death, not of a person but of a family, a house, a tribe.
Had to get this through ILL.. read the first chapter or so and I did like it and it was readable. However it is very long and at that specific time was a bit overwhelmed and so neglected it and then poof! it was due back. So another time probably.
Holy moly, that was a book. Long and intricate and full of the same characters doing more and more insult to each other as the house atrophies into oblivion. Moments of brilliance throughout. I liked it.
I'm very glad I kept reading this book, even if it got a bit long and drawn out in the middle. The intrigue and resolution at the end made it absolutely worth it.
A strange book where very few events happen, but each one is recounted by at least five people. It's boring and drawn-out, but sometimes it's interesting. Mostly skimmed the ending.
Um livro bem escrito em que muito pouco acontece e se estende demais, muito mais do que deveria.
