https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49715.BUtterfield_8
This is not least because so much of the sex and sexuality in the book is rendered from the woman's point of view.Sitting in the background are themes of money, the great depression, and business, which adds a bit more depth to the story, and O'Hara is good at conveying the tense, edgy atmosphere of New York City at this time, when so many fearfully hoped that the Crash's aftermath was nearing its end and recovery would soon blossom, a time of waiting and hoping.
I want to give you the feel of the book.John O'Hara has in this novel imagined how it came to be that on June 8, 1931 the body of Marian Starr Faithfull, a beautiful young promiscuous socialite, liberal with drugs and drink, was discovered washed up on Long Beach, Long Island, New York.
Gloria is no demon, and hearing her voice as Mol speaks Gloria’s thoughts and words is the added dot over the i.
I am glad to have listened to the audiobook rather than having read the paper format.Are you up to a book that presents real life in NYC in the early 30s?
Well, maybe not this one so much....this roman a clef had its beginnings in real life, but it is quite intriguing and, in spite of an extremely small body count and practically no action, still manages to hold the reader's attention.There's really not much one can say about the story line without giving the whole business away, it's a story of a tragic figure, a feminine anti-hero, adulteress and thief (if being single and doing the nasty with a married chap makes you an adulteress...I know his marital status makes no difference to your being branded a thief if you steal from him or a member of his family).
I struggled a bit with knowing who was who at first because O'Hara tossed new characters at you frequently, and almost always in pairs.
This was beautifully written, but I think that some of it I just didn't understand.The young woman at the centre of this story, Gloria, was a difficult character to get to know.
It was almost like all the detail was put in to pad the book out a little, but I think it would have been more impactful without all of that.Also, the ending.
I predicted that from virtually the second page It just wasn't shocking enough, even though it should have been.
With this, we are reminded that O'Hara is a contemporary of Fitzgerald and Hemingway, with even some similar preoccupations, notably love in a time of Prohibition.
This novel is full of surprises, notably the way in which O'Hara frames Gloria Wandrous' call-girl life against the New York/East coast milieu of Yale boys, corrupt cops, speakeasies, the theaterical demi-monde, Pittsburgh industrialists, and even pedophilic clergymen.
It is with a sinking feeling that you know Gloria will end badly even before you finish the first chapter, but it is a testament o O'Hara's forceful writing that you read on.
Wo Glorias Cousine Holly Golightly naiv und unbedarft scheint, ist Gloria spitzzüngig und es haftet ihr etwas Tragisches an, dass sich in Promiskuität, Drogen und Alkolkonsum nicht erschöpft.Bis auf das Ende des Romans, das auf mich pathetisch wirkt (auch wenn es auf Tatsachen beruhen mag), bietet BUTTERFIELD 8 viel erzählerisches Licht: O'Hara hat ein großartiges Ohr für Dialoge, die in der deutschen Übersetzung leider gelegentlich etwas kryptisch klingen, und sein Romanpersonal ist quicklebendig und erfreulich klischeefrei.
Danach häuften sich dann Kapitel, die mich regelrecht begeisterten und die für sich genommen locker ihre fünf Sterne wert gewesen wären; aber leider kamen auch immer wieder andere dazwischen, die den Fluss störten.
3.5 stars I swear the author used "irregardless" This is one book that I totally appreciate its Hollywood appeal. I actually want to see Elizabeth Taylor play Gloria. Plot has typical 1930s devices: gin palaces, economic depression, loose women, cheating men. What's so true to life still today is the abuses of attention from older men to young girls that twists their mind sets about sex and self-worth. Also the constant manipulation and lies of the offending spouse were believable and deplorable.
The story is set during the Great Depression and asks the question, "What if a woman could behave like a man?" That's not to mean that she took on masculine traits but that she played by the same rules.
And she was especially fond of attractive, upperclass men.
But in many ways, and especially by today's standards, O'Hara is both sexist and racist.
But his ultimate judgment seems to be that a man might get away with being a playboy, but carrying on like that can only make a woman miserable.Oh, and I knocked one star off because he used "irregardless" twice, and not because he was writing authentic dialogue.
My copy came courtesy of the publisher.Reading John O'Hara is like stepping into a time machine.
He completely immerses the reader in the speech patterns and atmosphere of the well-to-do speakeasy set.
Even though this novel, like Appointment in Samarra, is filled with truly despicable characters, all of whom seem to be drunk, cheating liars, I loved reading it.
From the opening scene of Gloria waking up in a stranger's apartment with her dress ripped, O'Hara grabbed me.
(It probably didn't hurt that Elizabeth Taylor's iconic performance in the movie version came to mind immediately.)There's not much to say about the story.
I read it for the environment, setting, language.
Rather unlikable characters, their lives in New York, 1931 and inspired by a true event. First time I have read this author but it will not be the last. The passion in his writing, wonderful prose, the characters interactions with each other, the speakeasies, well to do people and their desolate lifestyles all combined to make this a very atmospheric read.
BUtterfield 8 – the camel-case title references retired telephone exchanges – is O’Hara’s ‘ripped from the headlines’ novel.
The novel uses the word ‘slut,’ which should remind readers that their grandparent’s era was not so innocent or halcyon.Fran Leibowitz presents some cultural signposts in her preface to BUtterfield 8.
1935 America roiled in the grinding despair of the Depression, but the one factoid that I think is crucial to understanding O’Hara’s novel is the 13 years of Prohibition, which ended in 1933.
Jay Gatsby’s fate is tied to an automobile and the same can be said to numerous characters in O’Hara’s novel.
She's had a rough life from the get go, and is simply trying to make something of herself in New York City at the height of the Great Depression.John O'Hara, I'm discovering, has quite a knack for really delivering on the characters in his novels and short stories.
Things do not just happen in an O'Hara novel, there's always cause and effect, and it is O'Hara's eye on these little things that we do, day in and day out, that makes his stories ring true as we read them.
Maybe we're supposed to read this as an indictment of license, but really, it just feels amazingly interesting.
The central characters amorality really feels so genuine and mostly-untroubled that it's hard to see it as an indictment of much.
The ending, which does try to tidy up the legacy of that central character, is a little odd; it seems to point a finger at one source for all the book's ills, ills that I'm not sure I read before them as sickness.
But it's otherwise of a piece with the book, in terms of being sort of brusque and businesslike.Really, this book is quite an achievement, but totally not for kids.
Romanul o are în prim plan pe tânăra Gloria Wondrous , rămasă orfană de tată, crescută de mama şi de unchiul său.
În copilărie este protagonista a două extperienţe traumatizante, care îi vor marca iremediabil destinul.
La 18 ani, vârsta morţii sale, ea este posesoarea unei vaste experienţe în consumul de alcool, droguri, petreceri, nopţi albe şi relaţii sexuale pasagere.
Imaginea Gloriei – frumoasă, tânără, încrezătoare, cunoscătoare a plăcerilor efemere - pare a fi imaginea Americii în Marea Criză.
Scurta viaţă a Gloriei Wondrous ne vorbeşte despre mirajul New Yorkului, despre întunecimea care se ascunde în spatele luminilor, zâmbetelor şi strălucirii marelui oraş.
O'Hara writes with such an intense passion and excitement that it is a very difficult book not to like. But unfortunately, much of the brilliance lies within that passion and excitement, and not in the story or characters involved. The author's sense of dialogue is tremendously flowing and spot on, but at novel's end you have that lip-biting feeling that you've just read an unfinished masterpiece. Read it for the character's interractions with one another and for O'Hara fiery prose.
Gloria a 1930's glamour girl wakes up alone in a strangers apartment one Sunday morning.Wearing nothing but her underwear, her dress torn she takes a fur coat and leaves.She sets in motion a series of events that will lead to tragedy.Her entanglement with a married man, set among the Manhattan bars and bedrooms.Made into a film starring Elizabeth Taylor.
I couldn't get through this and stopped maybe 25 pages into the book. I didn't care about any of the characters because they are all sleazebags and I didn't want to waste my time reading about a cast of unremarkable people exhibiting the worst in human behavior.
As Gloria Wandrous grew more and more alive and as I learned more of her back story and current situation, she began to feel truly real and I found myself sympathizing for her.Many of the themes of the book dealt with Gloria's sexuality both in the present world and with the encounters of her youth.
She has a real desire to love and be loved, but she has a low sense of self worth because of her past that she feels she has to live up to.In addition to the depth in Gloria's character, the book also expounds on the sexuality and behaviors of all the other characters.
Like Butterfield's characters, who are easily infatuated but rarely in love, I raced through my reading -- only, in the end, to be uncertain how much I actually liked the book.
How can you not enjoy writing that evokes a whole social scene in a sentence, like: the dining room "made her think of meats with thick gravy on them." Or a character is introduced with: "In his two years in New York he had had four good months, or make it five." O'Hara's writing seduces me, although, like his Gloria Wandrous, I find the morning-after can sometimes be a little cold.
I devoured BUtterfield 8 in one sitting and loved it.It was Elizabeth Taylor who played Gloria Wandrous so well, that somehow she stayed in my mind.
I lost my copy and then got a chance to reread it – a fantastic Penguin Drop Cap edition of the book and it just felt the same way, the first time I read it.BUtterfield 8 is set in New York.
This in short is the plot of the book.O’Hara’s story is bold and candid and Gloria somehow becomes an icon.
If that is the case, I am in for some remarkable reading experiences to come!The writer has such a distinctive, provocative "voice" and a firm grasp of understanding (and communicating) how seemingly small and unrelated incidents move a story forward in a compelling manner.
However, O'Hara favors the hard-boiled novels of Vera Caspary with more shocking allusions that feel so appropriate to what is happening.
And they are not above manufacturing little intrigues to relieve their boredom.It is fascinating to read how the story segments come together to form an inevitable conclusion.
It would be descriptive, it would be profound, and in those moments I truly felt like I knew these characters and new them well.
And then I would be jolted out, like some abrupt and jarring rescue, and I'd go about linearly again, taking in nothing but facts about the Depression, prohibition, and the practiced manner in which men and women spoke to one another in the 20s and 30s.
Women were coy and manipulative, even in language.
Men were heavy handed and spoke above women, but had blaring moments of protectiveness that made them seem like gentlemen.
"She should have won that Oscar for Hud." To which I took away that Elizabeth Taylor movies cribbed their titles from rejected candy bar names.Four decades later, I agree that the movie is awful.
Even nice guy Eddie is a perfect example of why people find the term friend zone so offensive, and his decision to finally give up on Gloria and commit to a nice girl is based on such muddled, I-like-to-eat- sandwiches-that-I-like reasoning, Gloria's fate almost seems merciful.Note: Patricia Neal was in HUD and not Liz Taylor, but that's how I remember it, dang it.
As with some previous classics I can see why this book would be slotted in with those.
It all revolves around topics discussed and the period of time in which the book was published.
Sex (with women as sexual beings), drugs, alcohol (during prohibition), infidelity, marriage, men with younger women, suicide, theft, and just all around unsavory behavior, but the best part was the story was interesting as well.
My biggest shock with the book and author was reading that O’Hara has the most short stories ever published in The New Yorker.
Good news; he’s written a good number of other books as well.
The novel was published in 1935, every chapter mentions speakeasies, as well as then current; politics, books, movies and news headlines, making the reader wonder if it was written in the present trying to give the feel of being set in the 1930s.
The heroine, Gloria, (Elizabeth Taylor plays the character in the movie) masturbates two pages in and is a promiscuous bisexual.
Written a tad too wordy for me, but I really liked that I felt as if I was back in that time in America, right down to sitting in a theater watching Jimmy Cagney wow and shock the movie audience in “Public Enemy.”
I found a page from this book on the ground in Brooklyn in May, brown and torn and mostly disintegrated. The bit that was legible drew me in, though, and thanks to Google books I was able to find out what book it's from! I wonder if this was a sign that I should read this book or just a sign that someone's copy was due for retirement. -----
This is such a great book! This shows a brilliant perspective of the tangled webs we weave in our lives either through circumstances within or outside our control. Set in the 1920's without all the over the top extravagance of a Great Gatsby, the story resonates just as much today as it did then. Thoroughly recommended.
The book wasn't really that bad, but it is getting a 1 star review from me for the reckless use of "irregardless." Might as well have been nails going down a chalkboard!!!
The style of the book took me some getting used to, but once I did (and it didn't take me long), I was hooked :-) My rating went from the initial three stars to four, and I ended up even with giving it five stars.The book has several lifelike dialogues; for me it was almost as if I was there, listening in on them.
John O'Hara certainly knew what he was doing, as it is very cleverly done.Gloria Wandrous’ sad life is the heart of the story.
That Gloria is very young is obvious from the start, but when the book ends the newspapers give her age as only 18.
Even the front of the draw had a mirror, and whenever she noticed this she thought about the unknown person who designed the table, what he or she must have had in mind: what earthly use could there be for a mirror on a drawer, just that height?
What other earthly use, that is?
O’Hara uses the word "arse" at one point, which you don't expect from American writers.I was often reminded of "American Psycho", the speakeasies standing for the Zagat listed restaurants, everyone vaguely knowing each other above the cocktails.
