https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107792.Gentle_Warrior
Other than those differences though, there was a LOT that was similar in this book.
Having read the newer of the two, The Bride, first (although I didn't know it at the time), this book felt a bit shallow.
The characters here didn't really have the same spark that they had in The Bride, and after finishing the book and thinking back on them both, I can really see the difference and improvement in the writing and characterizations in just the four years that separated these.
Elizabeth is very, very much like Jamie from The Bride.
This book had quite a few trips downtown, and while that sounds fun, it was actually quite a bit like a paint by number...
Another great Garwood romance with a fantastic cast of characters, though hero was a little too much at timesSetting: 1086, EnglandGentle Warrior is another great Julie Garwood medieval romance.
I had to give it four stars instead of 4.5 or 5 because at times the hero, Geoffrey, was a little too caveman-like for me.
Elizabeth's grandfather, Elslow, was absolutely wonderful and I'd be surprised to meet a reader who wouldn't want a grandfather like him - he's funny, witty, so sweet and gruffly affectionate with Elizabeth and her younger brother, and just all around fantastic.BOTTOM LINEOverall, Gentle Warrior was a very enjoyable - and often laugh-out-loud humorous - read that I would definitely recommend.
The is a romance novel set in England in the year of 1086. It is a story of a strong, fierce warrior who rules over his knights and family with an iron hand, but he is a very gentle and tender lover twards his Wife. His Wife is a very strong willed lady who carries a dagerin her hand and one concealed beneathher skirts.It has some very tender moments between the lovers and some very harsh scenes in war.I recommend this book to all.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
I didn't feel that the hero and heroine had as much depth as they could have, but overall, they were both pretty likable.The one thing about the book that wasn't quite my cup of tea is that it is written more in the bodice-ripper style of the 1970's and 80's.
So, overall, I guess I would say that it had a pretty good balance even if that part bugged me just a little bit.Gentle Warrior had a few significant secondary characters that helped liven things up, mainly Geoffrey's gruff vassal and second in command, Roger, and Elizabeth's precocious little brother, Thomas, and grandfather, Elslow.
This was Garwood's first book from 1985.
You can tell she hasn't quite hit her stride.
She dabbles a bit in the style of the time.
There's no forced seduction or rape, but if I hadn't gone in knowing this was a Garwood book and what to expect, I may have expected it to happen.
I personally enjoy some of the old bodice rippers, but not every writer's style is compatible.You can see the beginnings of her trademark humorous battle of the sexes, but as I stated before, you can tell she hasn't quite hit her stride.
It doesn't take long and the two are wed, and now the real battle begins.My thoughts on the charactersWhile I really enjoyed this books, Geoffrey is one of the more frustrating characters I have found in Julie Garwood's novels.
The writing Something interesting about this book that I had never really noticed before, and something that made it a little more difficult to read than most of Garwood's novels, was the way she wrote the characters' silent thoughts.Most authors will make it clear that a character is thinking something, perhaps putting their thoughts in italics, so you know what is going on in their head.
The audiobook was fun! I was laughing for most of the book ,narrator's voice for Geoffrey was the funniest thing!
1.5 starsSo I decided to go on a Julie Garwood glom, starting with books I haven't read or have only read once.
It also makes use of the spunky ingenue of a heroine and more experienced hero-with-issues standard.
Given that those jokes, whether made by the heroine's grandfather, husband, or herself, are interspersed with the heroine's fear that they're actually threats, makes them really not funny.
Jokes about domestic violence are a warning sign about real danger.
I just hope my lack of memory about some of those yuckier elements means she dropped them from her list of standard tropes.
I love the strength of the heroines in Garwood's romances and I loved the heroes cluelessness of her strength!
3.5 stars
2.5 stars (:Well, this was a massive disappointment..I enjoyed my previous reads for Julie Garwood so much, that I had huge expectations for this one..I didnt really like this book, I dont even know why..It wasnt interesting at all ):Sorry..
After reading all of JGs historicals, and being in love with every single one of them..
this left me a bit disappointed.Maybe if I hadn't read her other books, I'd have found Geoffrey's yelling and shaking acceptable.Maybe if I hadn't read the strong heroines she wrote, I'd have found Elizabeth's crying and surrendering sweet.
But I have, and so my expectations were a little high, and easily crushed.
The heroine lacked the spunk.Anyways, it was an overall average read.
I am only disappointed because the same author gave me Alec and Broderick!
And they are top 3 on my book husbands!Safe read3/5
I have been wanting to read this for a long time, but I was a bit underwhelmed.
If it had been my book it probably would have ended up embedded in that vending machine, but I couldn't hurl a book that didn't belong to me, even if that stellar first chapter did feature a woman allowing a "massive" hawk to land on her bare arm.
I was reminded of it by revisiting another romance novel review (note to self: really, don't try any more historical romances unless they've been thoroughly vetted first), and on a whim tried that Google search: "hawk landed on her bare arm", was what I typed.
Gentle Warrior was Julie Garwood's first published book and set in Medieval England. Elizabeth Montwright witnesses the massacre of her family. Only she and her brother survives. Baron Geoffrey Berkley has come to find the murderers and bring them to justice.One of those books I've read numerous times and I haven't gotten tired of it yet. It's not my most favorite Garwood book but I still love it.
I know when I'm in a reading slump, I can always turn to aJulie Garwood book. They are all the same beat of plots, climaxes, heros, heroines and villains. Even though I know what to expect, I still enjoy them. Now I can't read her one after another but spaced apart they are certainly an easy, enjoyable, quick read.This book had me giggling more than her others, especially the last paragraph.
There were however, several problems with this book.First of all Garwood's writing is at times almost painful.
Geoffrey is, like every hero in Garwood's books, arrogant, dominant, controlling and gets annoyed or angry whenever his wife disagrees with him.
They just show up in front of the king, share some small talk and then the king sides with Geoffrey anyway becuase "I trust you, man!"It felt like Garwood just had to bring the king into this as well, give him a short appearance but then even she was exhausted with the story and ended it abruptly.
This book is different from the other books by Garwood that I've read, and as far as I can discover, it's her first novel, so that explains the difference in writing style.
Usually Garwood does a better job of showing, but we find out a lot about the characters because we're constantly told, what they are thinking.
The characters...Geoffrey our gentle warrior...he's an ass.
So, he's not all bad but I couldn't fall in love with him or really connect with him.Same with Elizabeth.
She teases Geoffrey, and teaches him to laugh (thank god) but this book lacks Garwood's usual humor and I couldn't admire or connect with Elizabeth either.
Still, it's not a bad read.
Gentle Warrior - ExGarwood, Julie - standaloneIn feudal England, Elizabeth Montwright barely escaped the massacre that destroyed her family and exiled her from her ancestral castle. Bent on revenge, disguised as a peasant, she rode again through the fortress gates...to seek aid from Geoffrey Berkley, the powerful baron who had routed the murderers.He heard her pleas, resisted her demands, and vowed to seduce his beautiful subject. Yet as Elizabeth fought the warrior's caresses, love flamed for this gallant man who must soon champion her cause...and capture her spirited heart!Loved it!
I am so disappointed I usually love this author but this one didn't do it for me I had a hard time finishing it. The plot felt really rushed and the characters were boring.
Re-read. Jule Garwood's first book. Oh yeah. NOT one of my favorites.
2.5 starsH was an ass to the h which was normal for the time period but I didn't like it. At the same time I liked that he wasn't PC. A decent book but my least favorite by JG.
I enjoyed this book immensely! Another Julie Garwood treat, very nice. Perfect book if you like romance and Highlanders.
2.5 Stars I love reading Julie Garwood, but this wasn't impressive.
I think that it would have helped had we seen a few glimpses of what his life had been, and where he developed his attitude.
She almost pulled it off in a couple of scenes, but she needed to add more.Every once in a while, we caught a glimpse of the real Garwood through the eyes of Elizabeth, but it was not often enough to pull the book up to a real Garwood classic.Still, compared to other writers, it's a jewel in the rough.
“You are mine.” It was a quiet statement of fact.“Yes, husband, I am yours,” Elizabeth acknowledged into the darkness.
“And you are mine.” Her tone challenged him to deny it.Elizabeth waited for what seemed to her impatient nature an eternity.
She shoved him as hard as she could and fairly yelled into his ear, “And you are mine, Geoffrey.”Geoffrey still did not reply, but he did give her a quick squeeze and a hint of a smile.
To Elizabeth, it was an acknowledgment of her claim.
The pledge was given.Content, husband and wife slept.
Now I love me some historical romance, particularly medieval romances (I can probably thank some old bodice-rippin' Johanna Lindsey books for that), but this one just didn't do it for me.
Our eponymous "Gentle Warrior" is Baron Geoffrey Something-Or-Other, who rescues our half-Saxon, discipline-less Lady of the Manor Elizabeth.
Elizabeth, who has wolfhounds and a hawk at her beck and call (because that's the epitome of "cool" for women in medieval times) has just seen her entire family slaughtered and is hell-bent on revenge against her pansy-assed uncle, whom she thinks is responsible for the crime.
Now, I know that all of Julie Garwood's highlander books are pretty much the same just with slightly different events and settings, but I absolutely love them!
For me, she has perfected the exact combination of love, romance and passion that keeps me riveted.
Then there is just enough story and intrigue to make it a really exciting and unputdownable book.I recently read a couple of other highlanders books by a different author, that were more history led than character led, and I found myself craving a Julie Garwood.
Perfection.
This is probably one of her newer books.
Then, later in the book, she is shocked when he kisses her there.
The comedy is cute, although forced in some places.
And the side characters- which she usually excels in- are not very well done.
The grandfather is awesome and so is Roger, but the rest of the characters are kind of ignored.
The dogs are mentioned in the beginning and then also kind of ignored.
I love Garwood books and I tend to read and reread them, but I don't see myself rereading this one.
Predictable, but still cute.
She is unsure who to trust for she fears her uncle may be behind the massacre that destroyed most of her family.
Geoffrey is the the Baron in charge of the land her family lives on.
Her uncle has been summoned and will arrive in a weeks time.
She has only that time to heal Geoffrey in the hopes he will awaken and believe her concerns or try to flee to safety with her brother.
The story really takes off at this point.
*sigh* I just love a good love story.
