https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40776308-sons
Buck I decided to read the second book in the trilogy, Sons.
As they all secretly plan in their minds what they will do with their money and land Wang the Tiger has no plan for lands or money, he will become a great lord of war.
What amazed me most about this book was how Pearl Buck brought many real life situations in to a story that seems so unreal.
Wang the Tiger was a man of honour yet lived a life of shame toward his father, son, and himself.
I recommend this trilogy to all ages because it is a great way to learn about Chinese culture.
Sons , published in 1931, is the second book in The House of Earth trilogy by  Pearl S. Buck . Almost everybody has heard of the first book in the trilogy,  The Good Earth , probably because it was the best-selling novel in the United States in both 1931 and 1932 , and was an influential factor in Buck's winning the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1938. But today the rest of the trilogy has been largely forgotten.The first book in the series was the story of a Chinese farmer working his way from
, published in 1931, is the second book in The House of Earth trilogy by 
But today the rest of the trilogy has been largely forgotten.The first book in the series was the story of a Chinese farmer working his way from poor peasant to wealthy landlord.
But the story in this book is set in an isolated rural part of China, and these sort of changes are the exception.At the end of the book we learn that the son of the warlord protagonist has joined with the revolution which technically is opposed to his father’s cause.

Hoping that I get in a better mindset later and can just finish some more books soon."Sons" the second book in the House of Earth series follows the sons of Wang Lung, called Wang Lung the Landlord, Wang Lung the Merchant and Wang the Tiger.
The book focuses mostly on Wang the Tiger with Buck popping up now and again into the eldest and second's son's businesses with some minor appearances by Pearl Blossom.
I didn't get a good grasp on any character in this second book.
I would say that this book is 100 percent filler since I think that Buck wants to focus on what happens to this family in book #3.
And when I found out, I hurried off to find the next installment, "Sons", Book 2 in the House of Earth series.
I upped to to four.This book, like the initial installment, is working on many different levels.
The book works through the prime of all the sons, and ends as the grandsons of Wang Lung are emerging.
Since I have upped the first book to 4 stars and this one, being the middle of a trilogy, is not QUITE as good, 3 stars.A House Divided (House of Earth #3), Buck, 1935https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
This is a sequel to Pearl Buck's most famous book, The Good Earth, following the lives of Wang Lung's three sons for about 30 to 40 years, after the father's death.
The sections of the book that follow the third son, Wang the Tiger, and his own son are the most interesting.
One quote from this section stands out, when The Tiger's son tells his father that he is not interested in becoming a soldier but in becoming a farmer: "He felt an old, known helplessness come creeping over him again.
wow.
This writing is luminous.
I felt the same heartstrings, the complexity of family dynamics and character development.
Then I worried.
"How the hell is Pearl going to pull this together for an ending.
Surely it will be a let down." Pearl had talent galore.
And quite the attention to detail to not disappoint all of us whom have loved THE GOOD EARTH.
She did not write her way into a corner or take the easy road out.
Another, WOW, powerful ending...and in her style...right through to the last word.
Loved it.Now onto more mundane.
গুড আরথের পরবরতী বই সানস। সেই যে ওয়াং লাং, যে পানিও মেপে বযবহার করা মত গরীব চাষি ছিল, ভাগয এবং পরিশরমের জোরে পরচুর জমি এবং ধন-সমপদের মালিক হয়েছিল, সেই ওয়াং লাং কে বৃদধ অবসথায় রেখে শেষ হয়েছিল গুড আরথ। যে মাটি ফসল ফলায়, যে মাটি মনের রোগ সাড়ায় সেই মাটি নিয়ে গলপ ছিল গুড আরথের। মাটির গলপ আর মাটিকে ভালবাসা মাটির মানুষ ওয়াং-লাং এর গলপ। গুড আরথের পুরোটা জুড়ে ছিল মাটির গনধ। কিনতু ‘সানস’ মাটির গলপ নয়। এ গলপ ওয়াং লাং এর ছেলেদের। এ গলপে মাটির গনধ নেই। আছে বারুদের গনধ, আছে রকতের গনধ, আর আছে বসতায় বসতায় রূপোর

The second volume in "The Good Earth" trilogy continues the story of Wang Lung and his three sons. Following the story to the next generation, it is less compelling than the story of the patriarch, the lives of the sons are not so interesting, as that of the father. This book didn't have the same eye-opening effect on me that the first one did. However, it's still a great book with good writing, and offers beautiful view of ancient Chinese culture. I look forward to reading the last book in the trilogy.
Sons (House of Earth #2), Pearl S. Buck
I am so torn by this book, it started out wonderful and very interesting until Wang the Tiger took over and all his war-lord exploits.
I enjoyed several parts of the book, little tiny snippets of human interaction that kept me going.
It confounds me to no end that now I want to continue on to the 3rd book in the series, how crazy is that?
I love her writing and I wished that she intertwined the war-lord, military part of the book with the human interaction and character study that she is well known for.
This book makes me wonder how my children will turn out when I'm gone. The father spends his whole life creating an inheritance for his children and counsels them to take care of it. But because they did not work for any of the wealth, they end up squandering it all in the end. I've seen this happen over and over. It is true - that which we gain at little expense is not highly valued.
Anak pertama, Wang sang Tuan Tanah, adalah seorang lelaki yang suka memuaskan nafsu jasmaninya, bergaul dengan banyak wanita yang menarik indera penglihatan (selain istri dan selirnya).
Dia tak dapat mengembangkan dan mengusahakan warisan yang ditinggalkan oleh Wang Lung, namun justru menghabiskannya sedikit demi sedikit.
Hubungan dengan anak pun tak dekat, hingga anak sulungnya lepas kontrol, hidup meniru sang ayah.Anak kedua, Wang sang Saudagar, adalah seorang lelaki yang sangat tekun bekerja dan cermat dalam menghitung harta kekayaannya, bahkan terkesan kikir.
Namun baktinya pada Wang Lung dan keluarga tak bisa dilupakan, saat dia setia mengurus anak Wang Lung yang cacat serta cucunya yang disingkirkan oleh keluarganya, bahkan hingga usia senja.
At the end of "The Good Earth" the aged and soon-to-die Wang Lung overhears his grown sons murmuring about selling the land he has spent a lifetime acquiring.
So many parents claim to acquire more riches, power, and influence for their children’s sake; they want their children to be able to live a better life than they did.
I think it would be so with Wang Lung.Pearl Buck’s books are an interesting way to gain a feel for China’s history of the past century.
It would certainly drive feminists up the wall.This story made me think about what it is that we parents are really “giving” our children by our lifestyles and values.
Pearl Buck's writing is pretty easy to read but parents need to be aware of content material for younger readers just like the first book.
Overall it's a complex story and shows how life changes from generation to generations but consequences from decisions made in the past don't stop and fade away.
In that regard, Pearl Buck is brilliant.
I am now a Pearl Buck fan and hope that her future books are going to be fun to be read as well.I can't wait to get the next book from the library.
Buku kedua Trilogi ini, seperti judulnya, mengisahkan tentang anak-anak Wang Lung.
Wang Lung yang akhirnya tutup usia, meninggalkan anak-anak dan gundiknya, serta kembalinya si nomor tiga, Wang Si Macan, bersama pasukannya.Pada akhirnya buku ini lebih banyak fokus pada sepak terjang si nomor tiga yang sangat berambisi untuk memimpin pasukan.
Menggunakan modal yang sangat besar dari harta warisannya, dia membentuk sebuah pasukan perang dan menaklukkan daerah-daerah sekitarnya.Buku ini banyak mengulas tentang pembentukan sebuah pasukan serta strategi para panglima perang dalam berebut daerah kekuasaan.
Melalui peristiwa demi peristiwa kita akan mendapatkan gambaran secara utuh karakter Wang si Macan maupun kedua kakaknya.
Buku pertama trilogi ini The Good Earth membuat aku jatuh cinta dan memburu-buru buku eyang Pearl.
Sesuai judulnya, buku kedua ini lebih banyak bercerita tentang anak-anak Wang Lung setelah tutup usia, meninggalkan anak-anak dan gundiknya, serta kembalinya si nomor tiga, Wang Si Macan, bersama pasukannya.
Menggunakan modal dari harta warisannya, dia membentuk sebuah pasukan perang dan menaklukkan daerah-daerah sekitarnya.Anak-anak Wang Lung memiliki karakter yang sangat berbeda jauh dan tidak ada satu pun yang sama mencintai tanah pertaniannya seperti Wang Lung, yang bekerja keras dengan cinta.
Aku masih terheran-heran bagaimana eyang Pearl bisa menciptakan karakter-karakter tersebut dan sesuai dengan cerita yang ia bangun.
The writing was very similar and it was about characters that were at least mentioned in the first book.
I found it a little disjointed how in the beginning of the book it was all about Wang the Landlord and Wang the Merchant but suddenly became all about Wang the Tiger.
It is also about how Wang the Tiger gets really lucky, really depressed, then really complacent.
The end did feel sudden but there is one more book to go in the series so I expected that.
I think in the end you only really like Pear Blossom although she is hardly mentioned.
(688 pgs.) The continuing story of Wang Lung's sons and their families.
The second in a trilogy that starts with The Good Earth.
It continues the story of Wang Lung's sons (Wang the Landlord, Wang the Merchant, and Wang the Tiger, a warlord).
It is well-written but I enjoyed The Good Earth better.
One thing that was very annoying about this book were the constant typographical errors.
The copy I read was a large print by Thorndike Press.
Obviously a spell-checker was used but the book was not proofread, at least not with any accuracy.
I would definitely recommend this book, but not the Thorndike Press edition.
This second in Pearl Buck's "The Good Earth" trilogy was not nearly as captivating as the first.
The story centered around Wang the Tiger, an angry, fierce warlord.
characters instead of people: the fat, lazy landlord, the tight-fisted merchant, the fierce warlord, etc.I am devouring DVDs and books about China to help give me a background for my trip there in April.
This trilogy has given me a flavor of the daily lives of farmers, landlords, merchants, warlords and the impending revolution, spun through the stories of one family.I am definitely going to read the third, "A House Divided" right away!

While I enjoyed reading about Wang the Soldier's exploits, this book was missing some of the wonderful character evolution and complexity from the first book. The only developed character is Wang the Third. The other two brothers are reduced to cardboard one-dimensional characters. However, the book still retains the wonderfully simple and straightforward tone used in the first book.
I think I actually like this book a little more than the "The Good Earth." This is the second one in the trilogy and covers the lives of the 3 sons of Wang Lung. However, it mainly focuses on the youngest son who winds up being called Wang the Tiger. There was alot of food for thought passages that I really liked. I look forward to the 3rd and final one.
Second book in The Good Earth Triolgy. Picked up right where the last scene of the Good Earth left off... with his sons promising to their father to take care of the land. Great story of the sons lives and the different direction each takes in live. Could not put this book down.
Dari semua orang yang mendapat warisan, hanya si selir muda Pear Blossom yang paling baik dan menghargai kenangan Wang Lung.
Setiap minggu ia rajin mengunjungi makam Wang Lung dan mendoakan arwah almarhum, tidak seperti anggota keluarga yang lain.Judul asli buku ini adalah "Sons" yang berarti menceritakan ketiga putra Wang Lung.
Tapi cerita dalam buku ini lebih kompleks dari sekadar menceritakan ambisi Wang Si Macan untuk menjadi kaisar.
Yang membuat saya kesal membaca perjuangan ini adalah kebodohan dan rasa tidak tahu terima kasih dari para bawahan Wang si Macan.
Tapi ironisnya, anak laki-laki kebanggaannya itu ingin menjadi petani.Apa yang sudah saya tulis di atas hanya mewakili sebagian dari cerita di buku ini.
I'm not sure how Pearl Buck does it, but my mind does not wander during the stories in this second of the Good Earth trilogy, despite the formal English and impersonal telling of the tale.
Unlike modern fiction writers who sometimes create the same character over and over again, she succeeds in describing very different men.
If there is any common thread to the people she creates, it's that the flaws of all people, as different as they may be, lead to some blind spot about others.
A classic which I read many years ago.
Listening in audio format was so soothing and brought the story to life.
The differences between the sons became evident and how they pursued their various lives, all made possible by the inheritance of land by their father the farmer.
The changes became evident as sons wanted to choose their own wives, not necessarily follow the same path as their fathers and strife abounded as challenges were presented to the previous generations.
These stories are in my mind great reads and highly recommend this and Pearl S.
I absolutely BLEW through this book.
It's been decades since I read "The Good Earth," but I saw a good deal on the 3rd book, "A House Divided," for my Kindle.
So I got "Sons" from the library to read first.There are very few books that cause me to say to my husband, "You'll never believe this.
This is what they are doing now!" Poor hubby basically heard my ongoing summaries all through the book.
So I still haven't picked up the third book, but it's waiting on my Kindle.
So many books, so little time...
Not quite as good as the first one, but still a pretty great book.
The first book followed Wang the Farmer as he grew rich from hard work but was disappointed that none of his sons wanted to be farmers.
The second book follows the three sons, who grow rich from investments/war but are disappointed that their sons don't want to be exactly like them.
Some of the characters are hard to tell apart because all three sons are named Wang and most of the other characters don't have proper names, but eventually they get nicknames and you get used to it.
Compelling addition to the Wang Lung family saga. Of course I missed Olan from the first one, but Buck did well in making this story so engaging.
