https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13137809-the-bishop-s-wife
I have seen Cary Grant, Loretta Young and David Niven in the 1947 movie, and loved it!
Before I go on, I also read in the section about the author, how Robert Nathan was a screenwriter for Louis B.
I wonder even though the movie is perfection, maybe they changed his book too much for his liking.
There is quite a difference in the novel and the movie.
I really loved the book which had so many thoughts on life and insights that were different and probably harder to portray in a movie especially during those Hollywood years.
He completely endorses the solemn pronouncements of the Church … and yet, didn’t there also used to be a joy in living?From that set-up, THE BISHOP’S WIFE unfolds as the story of people who are aware that something is missing that feels as if it should be there.
I would enjoy engaging in a discussion about it.However, whenever I feel the need to reconnect with THE BISHOP’S WIFE, I’ll be going back to my film collection.
so disappointed Every Christmas, I watch "The Bishop's Wife." With Cart Grant as Dudley the angel, Loretta Young as Julia and David Niven as the Bishop, it is one of the highlights of Christmas for me.This book was so disappointing. The characters were wooden and underdeveloped. The ending just ended...no resolution.
There were parts of this book I really enjoyed--discussions of spirituality and theological questions--but I've seen the film so many times and am so fond of it, my opinion of the book was colored by that experience. This book is much deeper than the film, very different from the film, a different experience entirely.
I have been reading books upon which some of my favorite movies are based. This is a well written story but has none of the caprice that I enjoy from the classic movie with Cary Grant, David Niven, and Loretta Young. The novel is much move about the existential yearning of the bishop's wife than a comedic romance. This is a well written story which leaves me thinking and stirs feelings. Definitely a book worth recommending.
One of those rare instances where the movie is far better than the book. Written in 1928, this novel is the basis for the Christmas film staring Cary Grant. The novel is deeper in many ways than the movie, but it's also full of theological missteps. Oddly enough, a Hollywood movie does a better job with the spiritual undertones, and it's a lot more fun, too.
I wonder if today's reading audiences understand what Nathan's commentary deals with? We're a different post-industrial society, with a different mindset. The questionable-angelology within these pages already points to the post-industrial world to come...
Angel from heaven boring as...This is a rare instance in which the movie is better than the book. FAR FAR better. The characters in this book are stilted and repressed and barely in love, if at all. It's a tragedy really. Disappointing that it wasn't anything like one of my most beloved films.
Pointless. But it did help me fall asleep one evening.
I read this book only because i loved the old movie with Carey Grant. Unlike the movie, the book tended towards the cynical side and since I could not help comparing to the movie as I was reading it, I did not enjoy the book at all. Perhaps without the bias, I would appreciate the story but I can't get the movie version out of my head. Clearly, the movie took lots of liberties which I am glad they did!
Even if I had not thought of the David Niven, Loretta Young, Cary Grant movie, I would not have cared for this book. Hollywood definitely used creative licensing in their movie as it is hardly like the book at all. I did not care for the characters in the book. They seem selfish and self-absorbed to me.
This book is as good or actually better than the movie --- should be read and enjoyed every Christmas or at least once every year. Bishop Henry wants to build a cathedral for his overcrowded church but has no way to fun it - he ends up praying for help and gets a wonderful angel, Michael who also helps his whole family! Thank God for Kindles and eBook's bringing all these oldies back to life!
My very favorite Christmas movie a book, what more could I ask for in December? This was not what I expected though. Take this novel for what it is and do not think of David Niven, Loretta Young, or hope for Cary Grant to answer all of your spiritual questions. Michael, the archdeacon has plans of his own for making Julia happy.Any more and it would be spoilers.
When I first finished this book, I wasn't sure if I liked it or not. Now that I've had some time to think about it, I like the way Nathan writes, and I like the way he ends his books: only giving a hint as to what really happened, leaving it up to the reader to decide.
I never saw the movie that are supposed to be based off of this book. I have seen the covers only. I read the book, basically because I knew of the movie. this is one book I have mixed feelings about. I don't like it but I also don't hate it.
Having seen the movie so many times (being a huge Cary Grant fan) I was prepared to be disappointed. It's hard to separate from the movie, but overall it's a good read.
I enjoyed reading this, but the ending left me so disappointed. It didn't answer any of the questions posed by the situation, and it had been such an intriguing situation.
Feeling a lack of worldly passion from her husband, the Bishop's wife falls for an Angel. This story is an exploration of various passions--spiritual, worldly, and ambitious.
This book surprised me as it was not like the popular movie. More on http://bookwinked.wordpress.com
Added 10/12/15. Watched the 1947 film only. Great story!IMDb link: http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0039190/?...Stars: Cary Grant, Loretta Young, David Niven
Great story. The movie was more fun, but they basically told the same story and had the same lesson.
I love this novel. The writing is poetic and the story transcends time. A must read!
Very different from the movie; it's actually better in many ways. Nathan is a marvellous storyteller, excells at weaving Jewish/Talmudic and Christian thought into his tales. A very intense story!
