https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51783.The_Conquest_of_Happiness
In adolescence, I hated life and was continually on the verge of suicide, from which, however, I was restrained by the desire to know more mathematics. Now, on the contrary, I enjoy life; I might almost say that with every year that passes I enjoy it more. Like many people, I suspect, I find Russell an extremely agreeable person. And though he is, no doubt, several orders of magnitude cleverer than I am, I still identify very strongly with him. Perhaps this is only wishful thinking, but the mor
Thus it was a pleasure to read his views on what makes for a happy life, as almost everything he said resonated very strongly with me.Russell’s aim is to examine not extraordinary grief or mourning or tragedy, but the usual sort of unhappiness that Thoreau meant when he said “The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation.” And Russell’s message boils down to something simple: happiness comes from taking a genuine interest in the world, and unhappiness consists in spending too much time thinking about oneself and one’s problems.
"غرضي أن أقترح علاج لحالة التعاسة اليومية والتي يعاني منها أغلب الناس في البلدان المتحضرة, والتي لا تحتمل؛ بسبب عدم امتلاكها سبب خارجي واضح, فهي تبدو لا مفر منها" يتخصص الكتاب في معالجة التعاسة التي تصيب الأفراد ذوي سعة العيش أصحاب الحياة الكريمة. من أول الكتاب سيتسرّب لعقلك الرهبة من برتراند راسل, والهيبة من النَّص الذي يوضح مدى إلمام راسل بالموضوع ***بعض نصائح راسل المحورية:"سبب التعاسة الرئيسي يرجع لنظرتنا الخاطئة للحياة, والتي زُرعت فينا عندما كنا على حجر أمهاتنا صغارا, ونضطر لمخالفتها كبارا

دوستانِ گرانقدر، این کتابِ ارزشمند، از 304 صفحه تشکیل شده، و شاملِ دو بخشِ "موجباتِ بدبختی" و "در اسبابِ خوشبختی"، میباشد... زنده یاد «برتراند راسل» بزرگوار، مطالبِ خود در قالبِ 17 فصل بیان کرده است که مهمترین آنها عبارتند از: محبت-سرگرمی- کار- حسادت- رقابت- ترس- نشاط- خستگی*************************دوستانِ عزیز، از میانِ سرفصل های این کتاب، در زیر توضیحاتی در موردِ «حسادت» و «خستگی» که در جامعۀ ما زیاد دیده میشود و مانع از [خوشبختی] است را برایِ شما خردگرایان، مینویسم----------------------------
زنده یاد «برتراند راسل» بزرگوار، مطالبِ خود در قالبِ 17 فصل بیان کرده است که مهمترین آنها عبارتند از: محبت-سرگرمی- کار- حسادت- رقابت- ترس- نشاط- خستگی*************************‎دوستانِ عزیز، از میانِ سرفصل های این کتاب، در زیر توضیحاتی در موردِ «حسادت» و «خستگی» که در جامعۀ ما زیاد دیده میشود و مانع از [خوشبختی] است را برایِ شما خردگرایان، مینویسم------------------------------------------------‎دوستانِ گرامی، بعد از اضطراب، شاید «حسد» قویترین عاملِ بدبختی در انسانهاست.
Cover deki çikolatalı çilek bile fazlasını kurtaramadı... sanırım ben kişisel gelişim sevmiyorum...
Russell famously wrote so clearly and contributively to the world that he was awarded the Nobel Prize in literature in 1950 (another similar case is, I think, Sir Winston Churchill), therefore, his writing style is still worth studying and applying in one's narration.Let me show you some interesting quotes from this book published by Routledge (2006):No one is surprised to find an eminent general or admiral poor; indeed poverty in such circumstances is, in a sense, itself an honor.
56)The secret of happiness is this: let your interests be as wide as possible, and let your reactions to the things and persons that interest you be as far as possible friendly rather than hostile.
One should respect public opinion insofar as is necessary to avoid starvation and keep out of prison, but anything that goes beyond this is voluntary submission to an unnecessary tyranny.Bertrand Russel, cheery scientist and one of the greatest minds and personalities of the era, explains his take on human happiness and what keeps most of us from it most of the time.
This is NOT a self-help book, but rather a survey of the helpful and unhelpful aspects Russel sees in human nature and modern culture, and suggestions on how one might cope with it.
I was so excited to read this book, because I love Bertrand Russell.
I think he himself is aware of his faulty reasoning, and you can see that when he says "This issue goes beyond what I can say here" or "I'm loathe to talk like a mystic, but I have to here..." It would have been a better book if he'd paid more attention to those urges.
Check out Simone Weil who was fighting the fascists while you were only smoking your pipe and talking about the working-class!) Also, it's really fascinating that he wrote this book when he himself was miserable and needed some money.
It's striking how relevant his writing is, to our society today.I started reading this book after a stressful year in my life where I got too caught up with feelings of anxiety and lack of achievement despite working hard most days.
The book is divided into two main parts: Causes of unhappiness, and causes of happiness.
It's also damaging in the sense that success should not be represented as the purpose of life, since after obtaining it, you're bound to fall prey to boredom and listlessness because you do not know what to do with it...
Russell susţine că al societăţii cheag aduce nefericirea omului.
Spun "societate" în sens de civilizaţie, adică ansamblul normelor care impun buna ei desfăşurare şi care, adesea, ciopârţesc din libertatea metafizică a omului (mă refer nu la libiertatea socială, ci la acea libertate subiectivă de care vorbea Hayek).
I-a căzut o steluţa din pricina preciziei matematice şi a stereotipiei (care nu se împacă niciodată cu filosofia analitică, fie ea abordată chiar şi la nivel pueril)...
إن كنت تكره _مثلي_ الكُتب المُسماة خطأ ً كتب التنمية البشرية على شاكلة "عشرةُ مفاتيح للسعادة". إنت كنت لا تقدرُ _مثلي أيضًا_ على الدراسة المُتخصصة البحتة للسعادة من الجانب الفلسفي والنفسي والإجتماعي أيضًا .. فلا تتردد لحظة في قراءة هذا الكتاب الرائع :)
Kitaptan notlar:- Hiçbir insanın gücü sınırsız olamayacağı için, doyumsuz olanlar eninde sonunda aşamayacakları engellerle karşılaşacaklardır.- Ölçülü güç, mutluluğu arttırabilir, ama amaç olarak benimsenirse, dışımızda olmasa bile içimizde mutlaka felakete yol açar.- Akıllı adam, koşulları elverdiğince mutlu olur ve evreni anlamaya çalışırken acı duymaya başladığı noktada, başka düşüncelere geçer.- Güzel şeylerin tadını sevdiğinin yanında tatmamış birisi, onlardaki büyüleyici gücü tam olarak anlayamaz.- Bir kişi, başarıyı istemekle kalmayıp, bütün benliğiyle başarının peşinden koşmanın ödev olduğuna inandığı ve böyle yapmayanı zavallı bir yaratık olarak gördüğü sürece, hayatı, mutluluk veremeyecek derecede yoğun ve tedirgin olacaktır.- Benim savım şu ki, başarı mutluluğun sadece bir öğesidir ve eğer diğer öğelerin tamamının feda edilmesi pahasına elde edilmişse, çok pahalıya mal olmuş demektir.- Rekabet, yalnız çalışmayı değil, eğlenceyi de zehir eder.
Yet, everything of human worth is precisely outside of mainstream media and conventional behavior; hence, there must be some conquest (certainly Russell and Nietzsche's views on power coincide somewhere in the noumenal realm).
While the political and psychological struggles are perhaps one and the same, and while the boredom that produces unhappiness will persist as long as there is meaningless economic activity (service-industries), Russell gives the reader an important sense of responsibility for one's own degree of happiness in a world that provides, if one is truthful, no end for interest in it.
”Omul fericit este acela care trăieşte în mod obiectiv, cu sentimentele neîncătuşate şi cu interese largi, omul care-şi obţine fericirea prin aceste interese şi afecte şi prin faptul că, la rândul lor, aceste interese şi afecte fac din el un obiect de interes şi afecţiune pentru mulţi alţii.
Faptul de a fi iubit este o puternică sursă de fericire, dar nu omul care solicită iubire este cel căruia aceasta i se dăruie.
În general vorbind, omul care beneficiază de iubire este acelaşi cu omul care o dăruie.
چقدر یک انسان میتونه اندیشمند باشه و با آثار خودش برای سایر انسانها در طول تاریخ مفید باشه؟؟؟ برتراند راسل بینظیر نوشته این کتاب رو
A genuine book, calling it a self-help book wouldn't do it justice.I don't know what happiness is, but Russell sure has taught me how to get there.
I loved his bit about envy, it was so accurate and I think he reached the same solution that I have, i.e., trying to go out your way to praise such people and thus being genuinely happy for them.“Whoever wishes to increase human happiness must wish to increase admiration and to diminish envy.” (p.
Love is part of the life of Earth; sex without love is not.” All these things are necessary to an individual's happiness.

رغم أن راسل فيلسوف إلا أنه يستطيع الكتابة بشكل يضمن معه أن تصل مؤلفاته لأكبر عدد ممكنأسباب التعاسة عند راسل متمثلة في:المنافسة، الحسد، السأم، هوس الاضطهاد، الخوف من الرأي العام والتعبأما أسباب السعادة متمثلة في:اللذة، العائلة، العاطفة العمل والتوجه اللاذاتي  ولقد تحدث في كل فصل بإسهاب ستفهم معه مايعنيه..اسهابه هو ماقد يثير الملل في بعض الفصولأحيانا تصلك الفكرة كاملة وتفهم مايريدهلكنه يستمر في الشرح والتفصيل لكن عدا هذافهو كتاب يستحق الاطلاع بلا شك ..
I had to grit my teeth and move along at times.I'm not sure Russell could write this book today, even without the racism/sexism.
The world is full things that are tragic or comic, heroic or bizarre or surprising, and those who fail to become interested in the spectacle that it offers are forgoing one of the privileges that life has to offer." Yes!I saw so many people I know in the pages of this book, both good and bad.
I'm not sure if I learned anything new...but it certainly helped give voice to ideas about living a happy life that I already know.
I find them a lot more refreshing than the usual quick guide to happiness by some psychologist, or the energy-inside-yourself babble by a spiritual charlatan.Already from the introduction you understand that Russell is not writing this to make some easy money: he clearly wants to just pass on ideas that have worked for him, and that may be useful for others as well.The book consists of two separate parts:- Causes of unhappiness- Causes of happinessOf those two, the first one is by far the most interesting.

its a wonderful read . with great insight and indepth studyof human behaviour the author identifies what makes a man happy or unhappy. And the solutions he offer are practicable and easy to adopt if one so one wants. its a must read for all book lovers and for those who are interested in the study of human charcter.
Este é um livro altamente improvável pois consegue ser ao mesmo tempo um ensaio filosófico e um quase livro de auto-ajuda. Um livro bem conseguido, daquele que foi um dos maiores pensadores do século passado, e que hoje está tão esquecido. Recomendo.
The book was first published in 1930, which still applies to present life.
It's an art to be happy, life long class.
Below is what I quote from the book:What I disagreed:"A happy life must be to a great extent a quiet life, for it is only in an atmosphere of quiet that true joy can live."What I agreed:"Nothing is so exhausting as indecision, and nothing is so futile."1) "Remember that your motives are not always as altruistic as they seem to yourself."2) "Don't overestimate your own merits."3) "Don't expect others to take as much interest in you as you do yourself."4) "Don't imagine that most people give enough thought to you to have any desire to persecute you."Of course, there are plenty more.
I read it because I'm into happiness books these days, but this one felt curiously dated (it came out in 1930).
However, if you can borrow it from the library or a friend--or if you can read a portion of it in a bookstore--it's worth reading Chapter 11: Zest.His argument is that "the most universal and distinctive mark" of happiness is zest, which he essentially defines as a love of and curiosity about life.
I like the way he slyly says that "disenchantment" should not be "regarded as a higher form of wisdom." (This chapter: 5 stars.
The whole book: 1 1/2.)
I think this book has very wise insights of life and the way we should be living. I read it in parts to be able to absorb the information inside which is a lot.I agree with most of his points of view.
أعتقد أن برتراند رسل هو فيلسوفي المفضل حتى الان .. وهو قول يحمل كثير من المبالغة. فهو كقولك العدس طعامك المفضل وأنت لم تأكل غيره في حياتك. ولكني تذوقت فلاسفة اخرين ولم أستطعم مثله

Livro interessante, útil talvez, auto-ajuda avant la lettre, com Russell muitas vezes a digladiar-se com os seus próprios argumentos que vão dando as causas da infelicidade e da felicidade.
Depois porque Russell está também numa batalha corpo a corpo com os mores da sua sociedade - 1930 não nos esqueçamos -, ao mesmo tempo que é filho desse mesmo tempo.
Dennet, uma obra "cápsula do tempo" que nos vai dando normas vigentes, muitas vezes criticadas pelo próprio filósofo, acerca do papel das mulheres, dos estrangeiros, dos negros, dos criados.
اولا هذا ليس كتاب تنميه بشريه اوشيء من هذا القبيل بل كتاب للفيلسوف الكبير برتراند راسلمقتطفاتاما الر
In this book he applies rationality to psychology in a systematic examination of human thinking and motivations.
Without denying the importance of external social forces, he concerns himself here with only those factors which lie within the power of the individual mind to change.Discussing the psychological causes of unhappiness, he concludes that preoccupation with self is the chief culprit.
Preoccupations with sin and the "sympathy of the herd" are other causes of misery.
To Russell, personal happiness was the best hope for ending warfare and other social ills.This book is clear, concise, readable, and very quotable.
