https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35921.On_Basilisk_Station
broken finger review #3:first of all, people, i wanted to call this the 'one-handed review series,' as i'm typing entirely with one hand (at one point, my prior rate was over 100 words a minute, so maybe you can feel my pain), but i know you people and that is just asking for trouble.that said, this is david weber's first entry into a series about captain picard honor harrington, a kick-ass woman in the royal navy that has the ice-queen routine down pat.
In the second, Honor is sent to a backwater system where she battles sexism and thwarts an invasion.
In the third, Honor is sent to the front line where she, uh, I’ve got nothing for this slot and thwarts an invasion.Weber does that old Star Wars trick of alternating POVs with Honor and the bad guys, relieving the reader of having to do any actual thinking by explaining everyone’s plans pages in advance.
Weber has clearly put some of the time he never spent thinking about adding a third dimension to his characters or making his heroine interesting in considering the physics and strategy of space battles.
Instead of making Honor a Hornblower with boobs, Weber makes her a believable woman.
Strangely, it didn't bug me here.What I really liked about this book was Honor's interactions with other women.
Too often in books with a chosen woman, the other women are made to look bad (for example, Anita Blake or Blood and Chocolate.
Here, Weber does for women exactly what he did for the male characters.
I loved the interactions between Honor and Estelle (or any of the female crew for that matter).
I love Weber for this.There were some things that didn't quite work for me.
I found this one thoroughly entertaining and enjoyable, although maybe a little on the long side.
It starts slowly but gathers speed and by the end it is unputdownable!I liked Honor Harrington and found it made for comfortable reading to have a reliable main character for once.
Not realistic but still fun.The author had a tendency to info dump, especially when it concerned his space technology, and I have to confess to a little personal skimming over these sections.
I found Honor to be an interesting character and I liked the world she lived in.
253!And I still couldn't tell the characters apart.Okay, that's an exaggeration.
I couldn't even describe anyone physically, apart from Honor and her frequently mentioned hard, narrowed, unblinking, flashing, all over the place brown eyes.
I couldn’t care less whether Honor and her crew succeed in their search for…whatever they’re hunting.The soporific and often incomprehensible descriptions of defense tactics, ship construction, and long-warring government factions made me incapable of appreciating the rare moments of plot development.
Weber frequently switches his point of view mid-chapter, which wouldn’t be so bad if the sections were clearly delineated.
It’s so rare that I DNF a book; the very idea is abhorrent to me.
Years and years and years ago, in a mental galaxy far, far away, a boy saw a ton of Star-Trek Military Mary Sue Hard-SF novels on the shelves of his local bookstore and collectively went...
No.So boy read everything else.
But unless I'm looking at a ton of flashy lights on the screen or the author is extraordinarily gifted at description (read: less info-dumping, or at least restrain the info-dumping to something that's interesting to me, read: dry military blah blah,) I kinda need my battles to be fairly quick and telegraphed easily.
:)Maybe that's just me.HOWEVER, all that wasn't much of a dealbreaker for me because I'm kinda used to it with all the other MILSFs I've read.
The latter's Horatio Hornblower series provides the inspiration for Weber's series, and the identity of the initials of the respective protagonists is no coincidence.
Honor's Manticore is a kingdom with an aristocracy and a political system reminiscent of Regency England (the author actually provides a plausible historical explanation for this!), while its rival, Haven, has affinities to revolutionary France.
(Granted, I've only read one Hornblower novel.) What we have here, IMO, is an SF homage to Forester's canon, not a plagiarized rip-off.Of course, it's an updated homage, most noticeably in that the all-male world of Hornblower's navy has finally met the world of women's liberation.
Moreover, I'm a long-standing admirer of strong, take-charge, combat-capable heroines, and that definitely describes Honor.
The bit where a tense action scene was interrupted for eight pages of background on the ins and outs of space travel was a particularly egregious one, and David Weber is quite frankly, to judge on this, not that good a writer at all.
She isn't faultless.
She isn't even pretty.
-- but the planning is all there.To top all that off, I got very involved with the characters, my heart was in my mouth during the action scenes (bar the bit with the eight page digression) and I was willing to overlook all its flaws because of that.
Supposedly CS Forster set in space, this novel is more Mercedes Lackey.
Honor Harrington is the new captain of an old warship.
Within a few paragraphs of meeting her we're told she has a psychic connection with her alien cat, is beautiful and looks far younger than her age, graduated top of her class and is oh so much more sensible than any of her commanding officers.
From then on, she's the bestest captain ever.
There are a few paragraphs that aren't lavishing praise on Honor or showing how evil her enemies are.
These paragraphs are meaningless infodumps.
Can Honor and her crew uncover the plot and save Manticore?David Weber’s On Basilisk Station is classic space opera loaded with lots of exposition about military tactics, weaponry, hyperspace, calculation of acceleration rates, etc., etc.
But I think the narrator may have done a disservice to the text, and I’m willing to give Honor another chance (mainly because I already own the next few volumes in the series).On Basilisk Station would have been a better book if Weber had spent less time explaining space-battle tactics and more time letting us get to know Honor Harrington.
(Weber does have a dedication to the former at the start of the book.) He succeeded in creating a wonderful heroine set in a very realistic future society with all the colonization & empire problems of old England.I think that if you've spent any time in the military, you'll appreciate these books more.
She is just getting to the point in her career where she is gaining real responsibility & thus winds up in some dicey situations, both military & politic.Weber feeds us a LOT of information in this first book.
Through every book, I was biting my nails & rooting for Honor!
The energy loss dropped slightly with each "higher" hyper band, but its presence remained a constant, and for over five standard centuries, all hyper ships had relied on reaction drives.”I am not sure what that stuff above means, I suspect it is pseudoscience (is hyperspace a thing?) but I have to admit it sounds pretty cool.The Honorverse, a long running popular military sci-fi series that I have never read until now.
How will Captain Harrington protect the station with access to so little firepower?I first dipped into On Basilisk Station a few months ago and decided to drop it after reading the prologue which I thought was confusing rubbish.
The first book of the Honor Harrington saga may be light on action, but there's still plenty of wonder and intrigue to be found On Basilisk Station!When Honor Harrington became a Captain in the Royal Manticorian Navy, she never imagined her first assignment would turn out like this! A spoiled senior officer shifts the blame for her own failures onto Honor. As a result, Honor and her crew aboard the light cruiser  Fearless  have been banished to Basilisk Station, an unpopular dumping ground for s
The first book of the Honor Harrington saga may be light on action, but there's still plenty of wonder and intrigue to be found On Basilisk Station!When Honor Harrington became a Captain in the Royal Manticorian Navy, she never imagined her first assignment would turn out like this!
Much of the first half of the book is dedicated to revealing how Honor and her crew fix everything that is broken on Basilisk Station, and it is truly fascinating to experience.
As the crew got to know the real Honor, so did I, and the way they warmed up to her mirrored my own experience while reading about her.
This was my first David Weber novel and my introduction to Honor Harrington. And what a ride it was. The only time I had any thought of boredom was whenever the Marines were discussing and planning. Otherwise, I could hardly put the book down. And the climactic chase was heart pounding in intensity, tragedy and triumph. I will definitely be reading more of this series.
Harrington has recently received promotion to commanding her first vessel in the Manticore Navy.
(For the sake of simplification, this is based on faster-than-light technology and worm-holes.) Weber can approach the poetic when he is describing his "system." "It's huge, immaterial Warshawski sails were circular, azure mirrors, bright and brilliant for just an instant as radiant transit energy bled quickly into nothingness, and then it folded its wings.
What Harrington discovers is a threat to Manticore that may come from Haven or the big trading companies or both.
The Good:There is a cat.
Also, the setting is interesting and very detailed.
Very, very detailed.
The end is exciting – an extended action sequence that is gripping, evocative and again, very detailed.The Bad:Far too much exposition.
There is just so much explaining going on.
Characters stop and think for pages at a time just to allow the author to tell us something new, or remind us of something we’ve been told before and maybe hadn’t thought to jot down.
The characters are cardboard cutouts of the type dreamed up by men who fetishise the military.'Friends' character the protagonist is most like:Honor Harrington is smart and determined and a bit dull, like Monica.
Women are portrayed in every rank and sector of Manticoran society, and every level of the military from the enlisted to the high command.Scientifically speaking, ON BASILISK STATION is written in a "wink-and-a-nudge" style that admirably simulates a near flavor of hard SF; there are three or four distinct means of high-velocity space travel described, and they're all pure bullshit handwavium, but their consequences and secondary effects are exhaustively explored and rigidly applied.
DNF at 20%.Hated the writing.
Too many info dumps (sometimes ended with exclamation points) between scenes.
And what's with the cat obsession?
I did not need be informed in every single time Honor stroke her cat's various body parts.Honor's hand froze three centimeters from her cup, then continued its progress.
If I had to take a shot everytime she bit her lip, gritted her teeth, tucked her beret I would be wasted before even 1/5 of the book.Last but not least.
Maybe the info dumps ruined it.
Or just poor, soporific writing.
BUT there are other conversations, as when Weber uses Honor to show the nonsense in the reasoning of some....person, that I enjoyed greatly.
I didn't even read the "Appendix on Time" after the book.Still, this is a good story, with good characters with plenty of plot, depth, and action.I like it.By the way: I can see why some may see a resemblance to the Hornblower novels.
BUT you get two good books and characters that can both be read and enjoyed, Hornblower and Honor, that's always a good thing.
Honor Harrington is a smart and feisty Commander in the Royal Manticoran Navy.
Her crew resent her, the senior officer on the station takes off as soon as she gets there, leaving her in command.
She discovers that as well as a lot of unchecked smuggling, there is something else very strange going on at the station.This space opera is lots of fun.
Honor Harrington has been described as Horatio Hornblower in space.
She is just as likeable and gutsy as Hornblower and protective of her crew, even if they don't like her very much.
3.5 stars. Smart, well-written, well plotted and engaging military science fiction story. The only reason it doesn't rate higher from me is that military SF is not my favorite sub-genre of science fiction. I more partial to world building and "unique" alien cultures and this book (as with most military SF) doesn't address those areas in any significant respect. Still a very good book and a fast read.
Needless to say I won't be listing the series information on these reviews, as it would just take up too much time.Meet Honor Harrington.
It means 'Wild-Assed Guess'.” If you enjoy sci-fi, whether it be military or space opera, definitely check this out.
If you enjoy books where almost nothing happens for the first half then this book is for you, if you like books where the author gives 20 minute long info dumps then this book is for you.
If you are like me and don't enjoy such things I recommend starting this book at the halfway point, you will only have missed a few pages where anything useful to the story actually occurred.
The things that do occur in the second half are interesting, yet overwritten.
It is important that you like Harrington because you will be spending a great deal of time in her head.On the other hand let's be frank, this is not a very well written book.
The majority of the plot seems to be either planning sessions where Harrington discusses at length with a variety of people what they should do next, or exposition explaining why something works seemingly to the molecular level.
Despite all of this I did enjoy the book.
I rad the first two out of order and the second, "Honor of The Queen" is a better book in my opinion.
Take some of the politics from Dune, add a dash of Star Trek and flavor with WW II scouting and battles, and you've got an idea of how the plot plays out.
We're given a new female captain who doesn't always test well but has incredible instincts, characters who have honest failings and self-awareness, and political machinations from all sides.
You can't really tell from here (view spoiler)[though I'm very glad that N has his own life-support box (hide spoiler)] but you've got to admit it's rare to see cats in space.
On Basilisk Station is the story of a newly commissioned British captain, Honor Harrington, of a small light Cruiser, the HMS Fearless.
The expedition culminates in a long running stern chase between Fearless and a much stronger French warship.
Insert Manticore for British/England and the People's Republic of Haven for France and you pretty much have Dewey Lambdin's Alan Lewrie saga in space.
The stern chase between Fearless and the Haven Q-ship was really, really exciting.
One of the great things about the Lewrie books is the depth and humanity of the captain.
Great charactor interaction, written by someone who understands people skills, man mangement & chain of command in a military setting, it works for sure.
Plenty of geek techy stuff as well for yous nerds out there, to the point of glaze forming at times :) i did have to skip a few paras ere n there when the quantom mechanics & warp fueled reactor thinymajigs was a tad full-on but thats jus me & only a minor quibble.
There's politics, skullduggery, "other lifeforms", battle scenes both on land & in space PLUS there's a Treecat called Nimitz whose empathic & partial to celery....
of course he is!!Very enjoyable & glad i found this series throu a recommendation!
A proper treasure.
It made no sense to me, even to recognize if it was totally fake or based on actual scientific concepts, and even worse, it read like the summary of a textbook chapter, with no attempt to make any of it dramatic or interesting.
That was bad enough, but the book is very immersed in what I'll call "naval culture," the mindset of military officers.
The comparison with Star Trek is on point here, because for all the show's almost idealized portrayal of "Star Fleet" officer culture, it did regularly explore the dangers of exploration and contact with less developed peoples, and with the Prime Directive attempted to establish a possible moral framework for coping with the difficulties raised.
Yes I am hypocritcal, I have thoroughly enjoyed bad books (see most of Piers Anthony), I have given series a couple of books to get going (see Harry Dresden) but mostly once a book starts sounding ridiculous I can't stop seeing the flaws.The info dumps, the horrific cliches, the obsession with minutiae of already boring topics, the tell and not show style of writing and finally at the end, after a whole book of nothing happening we get some seriously gory scenes.
As to the political situation and its complexities, you just have to look at the world today and realise it was in fact probably under complicated in this book.So will I continue in this universe, I think the answer is a resounding but qualified yes.
Qualified as in there are so many good books, or books I want to read around at the moment, as well as those i read 40 years ago that I want to go back to, and I haven't read the LOTR for some years, nor the 11 or 12 book Asimov (and killer Bs) Foundation Saga (does one start with the Robot stories , hmmmm) for a number of years as well, agh.Add to that the number of non Sci-fi books I want to read and well, I am beginning to realise I don't have that much time available.So was this a good book, yes, very enjoyable.
