https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2740021-william-again
Not as good as some of the others although I did really enjoy the chapter where William and Mrs Brown go to visit the critically ill Great Aunt Jane.
A book of stories. First read this book when I was a child. I still find the stories funny. Poor misunderstood William. He can never understand why his family, apart from his mother, are always against him. Even when he tries to do his best, it still somehow works out wrong. A relaxing read.
William Brown has been called ‘the bad boy of fiction.’ As he says himself: I don’t WANT to behave like a civilised yman bein’.
I bet savages don’t let themselves be dragged off ti ditty ole women when they’d rather go to see blood-curdlin’ an’ nerve-shettering Westerns.’ Or plunge into ditches, climb trees, fight with his enemies and come home a sight to break his mother’s heart.
If you would like to read about William’s creator, Richmal Crompton – The woman behind William by Mary Cadogan paints a charming biographical picture of a witty, talented and tolerant writer.
Every so often Crompton catches me off guard and I end up laughing so hard tears arrive.
Hilarious collection of stories . That Boy, William and the white cat, William's secret society , William sells the twins are laughter riots
This one isn't nearly as funny as the previous book, and William comes across as extremely unpleasant most of the time. The stories seem to end very abruptly and are instantly forgettable. I am disappointed with this book after reading the first two, although the second half of it is better than the first.
The only thing that could possibly improve the sublime writing of Richmal Crompton is the embarrassingly humorous narration of Martin Jarvis. These audio books deserve to be far more highly celebrated.
Stellar!
Didn't stand up to re-reading quite as well as the first, but it's still William Brown and therefore cracking.
As delightful as the previous two books in the series.
A real boy's book. A cheeky adventurous child William, always in trouble, comical and farcical, a good read.
Unpleasant little chap. Unlikeable family. Rather funny stories. Reading Calvin and Hobbes to the family would have been a much richer experience.
It's William!! A guaranteed rollicking read. Perhaps not as funny as some of the later books, but the spirit's still the same. :)
Was given this book as a child, this character is hard to hate...
A wonderful rascal. Great language and absolutely hysterical! Also very good on audio!
Audio book while on honeymoon. Just great fun.
A bargain bin buy from the library at 10p. First time I have read any Just William - makes my nine year old daughter laugh out loud.
One of the best children's book ever written.
too funny and alot of humor!! loved it
