https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/552894.7th_Heaven
I didn't expect depth.) Earning marks over the last book, there are less crime plot lines to follow.
This plot line did give me hope that the crazy true crime writer stalking Yuki might actually kill her, but no such luck....Hmmm, I should work on how often I'm wishing death of fictional characters...
I have such a hard time taking the plot seriously when the characters moving it along feel like they were written by aliens who have been watching humans for a while and think they finally get it.
7th Heaven is the seventh book in the Detective Lindsey Boxer Woman's Murder Club series by Maxine Paetro and it's a beauty!
Judy is still indicted for his murder and ADA, Yuki Castellano, must get justice for Michael's parents and win the trial against Judy Moon.
As if the pressure from the trial isn't enough, Yuki is being dogged by a reporter who wants a best seller ending to his book, and he won't stop until he gets one.
I love Maxine Paetro's Woman's Murder Club series and I can't wait to see what will happen to the friends in book 8, The 8th Confession!I highly recommend this series!
I liked Yuki at first but by now I really dislike her.
When Jill was still there, you wouldn't spend half of the book reading about the things in court and all that stuff.
I mean, if I wanted to read about court stuff, I'd buy a book about that.
But these books are, in my opinion, about homicide cases and therefore I really dislike that there is so much book-time spent in court with Yuki and less time with Lindsay and her team trying to find the killer.
Also, the cases seem to be more boring.
I have really liked the Women's Murder Club series, but after the first one, they were almost unreadable.
Hardly any cussing (although there is some) and sex (ditto), it's much more tame than the others.
The story was intriguing and tense, made even more so by the fact that I was in San Francisco while I read about a killer loose in San Francisco.
I was bummed that she didn't resolve whether or not she was going to marry Joe. I like her partner, but Joe is the man for her and I will be devastated if she breaks up with him.
There's so much going on that James Patterson keeps it simple but complicated simultaneously.
Now she's battling feelings about her partner and it may lead to problems at work and at home further down the road.The previous governor's son, Michael Campian, has disappeared without a trace and a young prostitute has admitted to killing him.
There's a fire starter that's going around robbing wealthy people, binding them up and setting their homes on fire......murder!
The calling card left behind is written in Latin and describes the reason for the murder.
Truly will keep you reading and wanting to get to the end.
Good read.
I think I originally liked them, back when Patterson was actually writing them, as opposed to putting his name on other people's work.
This time it was Clare.Did you know Clare is pregnant in this book?
What do you MEAN you're going away for the weekend to see another woman that is such a slight on ME I THOUGHT YOU LOVED ME BEST.How the fuck is anyone supposed to concentrate on the MURDER part of the WOMEN'S MURDER CLUB series?!As for the murders?
I will eventually forget how much I hate this writer and read the 8th book.
It has been awhile since I read any of the Women's Murder Club (I'm hereby referring to it as WMC) books by James Patterson.
I think that adds to the appeal of the WMC books.One of Patterson's strengths is his ability to weave together separate mysteries and crimes and yet still tie it all together into the story.
I'd say more but I'm afraid of giving too much away to those of you who haven't read this book.If you like mysteries and suspense/thrillers, I think you would enjoy Patterson's Women's Murder Club books.
الجزء السابع و السلسلة لا تزال تحتفظ بشيء من بريق جزئها الأول من حيث الحبكة القصصية على الأقل ولـــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــكنالحوارات بين الشخصيات لا يزال أكثر ما يزعجني...و كانك تقرأ حوارا بين مجموعة من المراهقات لا مجموعة.
أي شيء غير رواية بوليسية مليئة بالعنف و عن ليندسي أيضا ...يا الهي ماذا حصل؟ ما الذي حصل بخلاف حماقة الكاتب و جعلها بذلك الضعف في هذا  "strong female characters" الجزء؟ أعتقد رواياتيجب أن تكون وفية لاسمها على الأقل, فمن أجل ذلك يقع الاقبال عليها من القراء.
سواء في الروايات أو في السنيما لكن هناك حد أدنى لا ينبغي التنازل عنه من غيره ستصبح الرواية بلا طعمختاما نجمتين للحبكة القصصية و نجمة للأيام الخوالي حيث لقائي الأول و الصادم مع السلسلة قبل سنوات.
Ποιοι καίνε τα σπίτια και γιατί; Πώς καταφέρνουν και είναι πάντα τόσο προσεκτικοί που δεν αφήνουν κανένα αποτύπωμα πουθενά; Πότε θα κάνουν το μοιραίο λάθος και θα συλληφθούν; Τι κρύβεται πίσω από αυτό το παρανοϊκό σχέδιο; Παράλληλα εξελίσσεται και η ιστορία της εξαφάνισης του Μάικλ Κάμπιον, έφηβου γιου του πρώην κυβερνήτη της Καλιφόρνια, που επιτέλους κάποιος είπε ότι τον είδε να βγαίνει από το σπίτι μιας πόρνης.
Η Κλερ, που έμαθε λόγω του τραυματισμού της στο προηγούμενο βιβλίο πως είναι έγκυος, αν και 42 ετών με ήδη δύο ενήλικα παιδιά στη ζωή της, φέρνει στον κόσμο μια τρισχαριτωμένη μικρούλα.
I mean it's not exactly celibate and pining away for her, it's more like he's young and hot and used to getting what he wants and he it's frustrated that he can't get it.
Now that she's literally living with Joe, I hope they just get together permanently and this whole Rich thing goes away.
And I want it to go away because Lindsay comes to her senses, not because he starts dating someone else, which is what is seeming to happen in this book as he is getting together with his former girlfriend.
(hide spoiler)]I hope the storyline that makes Lindsay seem crazy gets resolved soon.
Two exciting premises, nothing more than teases.The real mystery, a high-profile missing teen cold case, has a reliable lead.
We see Lindsay investigate the second mystery, serial double homicide by arson.The book doesn't actually get interesting until after the trial is over.
Yuki finds herself in danger and it's the first real thing of note to happen in the whole book.
Things don't feel completely settled in Lindsay's love life.7th Heaven wasn't the best book in the series.
The minor series story lines progress a little, but the stand alone mystery and plot lacked the excitement a reader expects from James Patterson.
As a matter of fact, this was my favorite book of the series (so far).
Lindsay and Conklin are able to get a confession and Yuki, is awarded the case for the district attorney.
Things turn personal when Conklin must tell an old flame that her parents have been burned to death.
Lindsay is still conflicted about her feelings for Joe and Conklin.
There is also a baby to one of the women in the club and a surprise in the plot at the end that left the book ending on a high note.
I really love this series and it keeps getting better with each one!
They all bring so much to the story and their characters are really well developed.
7th Heaven is a fast paced story that sucked me in from the first page.
It sets off a whirlwind investigation and trial that keeps you on the edge of your seat.
What I loved about this book was that every couple chapters we read from Pidge and Hawk's point of view - and they're the ones setting the fires!
I highly recommend not only this book, but this entire series as well!
This is the first time I've read a James Patterson book.
In fact, it's probably the first time I've ever read anything in this genre (crime drama, I'm guessing??!).It was given to me by a friend who assured me I would like it.
I guess I did like it but I was surprised by the style.
In fact, it's a style I prefer.
I wasn't disappointed with the writing, I just expected something different.I will probably read more James Patterson in the future.
This book has certainly opened my eyes to more genres than I usually read so I am grateful for that.
02/14/08TITLE/AUTHOR: 7th Heaven by James Patterson & Maxine PaetroRATING: 4/BGENRE/PUB DATE/# OF PGS: Suspense/2008/396SERIES/STAND ALONE: #7 in Women's Murder ClubTIME/PLACE: Present/San Francisco, CA CHARACTERS: Lindsay Boxer/Detective; Yuki Castellano/Asst DA Cindy/Journalist; Claire/doctor FIRST LINES: Tiny lights winked on the Douglas fir standing tall & full in front of the picture window.COMMENTS: library book.
Two storylines keep you turning the pages.
The teenage son of recent governor is missing.
Another "hot" case in the San Francisco area are the serial arsons taking place in upper-end homes that include taking the lives of the owners.
Good suspense.

(Women's Murder Club,#7) Loved the Michael Campion murder trial back-story! Lindsay and her "partner" Rich scramble to bring down a serial arsonist. This might have been one of my favorites, but I was lost with the Yuki trial and her psycho stalker, and annoyed with Lindsay's relationship issues. Not seeing the "Murder Club" working together on any murders... only margaritas, lol. Definitely taking a break from this series.
This series is the only thing I read by Patterson and I am beginning to lose interest here as well. I like the concept but the group working outside the normal boundaries that was there in the beginning is less than it was. Not a bad read, and as usual quick read.
Love Patterson. I've read everything he has ever written. Would love to meet him and pick his brain someday. Good mystery series. Finished in 4 days. Love the short chapters he always uses. Ready for the next one.
This might be my favorite of this series, although I'm ready for Lindsay to figure out she wants Joe. That said, and without any spoilers.... Great ending!!! Very satisfying. :-)
For me personally, reading the entire Women’s Murder Club series in a row make the various story-lines and plots flow from one into the other.
Why the SFPD didn't pursue the college-angle from the start, I can’t say, but for me it was clear from the beginning that these rich couples all had children in college as well – that was super relevant.On the personal front, I was happy to read that Claire’s baby came into the world without a hitch.Notably, I’m always worried about the amount of gratuitous violence in these books.
Basic InfoFormat: E-bookPages/Length: n/aGenre: Murder Mystery At A GlanceLove Triangle/Insta Love/Obsession?: NoCliff Hanger: NoTriggers: n/aRating: 3.5 starsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  7Plot: 7Characters: 8World Building: 7Flow:  7Series Congruity: 8Writing: 7Ending: 7Total: 7In DeptBest Part: I can't tell ;)Worst Part: I don't believe it much.
Thoughts Had: Eh.ConclusionContinuing the Series: YesRecommending: YesShort Review: Why would this random two kids just decided to follow this comic or book or whatever and burn down houses?!
I was very upset that Lindsay was affect by poor workmanship.
I wish Lindsay would just give Joe a freaking answer already.
Book Boyfriend: JoeBest Friend Material: Clair Review in GIF Form:
Since he is the California's ex governor's son his case receives mass publicity which only amounts to more pressure on Boxer.The story is developed from different peoples' perspectives.
I especially liked the chapters that were told from the arsonists' perspectives.For a long time Boxer and her partner, Conklin, are unable to find any clues or leads to the arsonists' identities.
Later they discover that the murderers are accomplished, shrewd Stanford students who are also interested in comic books.
These boys used aliases that alluded to their comic book characters.
San Francisco Police Detective Lindsay Boxer and her Women's Murder Club friends are back with another mystery that had this reader staying up late and rapidly turning pages.It all begins with the mysterious disappearance of the ex-governor's teenage son, and then spins off into a series of mysterious arson fires of luxurious Bay Area homes, leaving the owners dead.
In "7th Heaven (The Women's Murder Club)," we also meet her partner Rich Conklin and her boyfriend Joe. There could be some future twists and turns.
Basically, read this book if you're a fan of the Women's Murder Club series (book or TV.) If you're a fan of the TV series, read them in order; don't start with this one, because it will confuse the hell out of you if you do.I'm actually getting rather tired of Lindsay Boxer and her antics.
They have a supposed murder with no body, no forensic evidence, no blood or hair or fibers, no proof that the "victim" is even dead, but they arrest someone anyway and put her on trial.
For the sake of innocent people everywhere, I certainly hope not.
[audio - wish the Overdrive editions had the cover art] - Listening to this is like having the television on in the background while "watching" a crime drama.
Few nuances, a lot of "girl bonding," chases, fires -- drama not thriller.
And literally, the "leave you hanging until next time" with some story threads.
The writing isn't good enough for a stand alone -- you'd need to be following the series for much of this to make sense and to actually have any reason to read this title.
Spoilers: Claire is very pregnant and has a baby.
Lots of California detail.
Two arsonists/murderers greet us from the first several pages.
SFPD Sergeant Lindsay Boxer needs to sort it all out, while solving the disappearance of a well known teenager and dealing with her own problems.
She has a super bond with her partner at work and a whining boyfriend.
As usual she is "aided" by her friends, the so called Women's Murder Club.
Cindy, the reporter, can't seem to keep quiet, & Yuki, the lawyer, makes some of the dumbest choices and decisions I've read...
The ending was too easy to see coming, but aside from that, it was an agreeable read.
(Still prefer Cross to Lindsay!)
In 7th Heaven, Lindsay and her partner Rich are once again trying to solve multiple crimes simultaneously.
The 18 year-old son of the former governor is missing, which is particularly alarming as he has a potentially fatal heart condition.
There have also been a rash of home fires, resulting in fatalities, and involving the affluent parents of college students.
While this novel involved all the suspense and action of the previous six in the series, it didn't grab me quite as much as they usually do.
I wasn't wild about the wrap-up of either of the crimes, although it was an enjoyable read!
This series is just so good!! Not as good as the Michael Bennett series, in my opinion, but still amazing! This book follows two crimes: the disappearance of the former senators son with a medical condition and a serial arson case. I did not see the outcome of either coming! You more or less knew who did it the whole time but still ... The ending made my jaw drop because it was the last thing I expected. That could just be me. I can't wait to read the next book in the series!
Awesome series! I have seriously enjoyed every one of these books. My only problem with this book is that, up to this point, Lindsay has been portrayed as a good cook, but in this book it was suggested that she wasn't. Also, when did their waitress change her name from Loretta to Lorraine? If multiple writers are gonna work on a series, I would think they would wanna work together on consistency with those small details that make the characters personal and real to readers.
