https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/583883.The_Face_of_a_Stranger
The face of a stranger is the first volume in William Monk series, a victorian mystery with an interesting detective.
I enjoyed the mystery and the plot twists were pretty unexpected.
Firstly, I thought there was too much debate and worry about the fate of poor people, a bit unnatural for the characters.
Also, there were too many powerful, independent women which, although appreciated, seems a bit unnatural for the time period.
Moreover, the MC stopped too many times in the middle of a plot development or during an interesting conversation to reflect on his character and on the fact he does not remember who he is.
Can Monk, a man who doesn't even recognize his own face, solve this baffling mystery and keep his job?...This book was amazing.THE SETTINGLondon 1856 is brought to vivid life by Perry.
It's not a criticism - I love feminist characters and also 'hero' characters who fight against discrimination and for better lives for the poor - but merely an observation that it is not very believable.THE WRITINGPerry definitely has a unique style of writing, and one which I really enjoyed.He remembered the horror he had felt when actually standing in the room.
4.25★Definitely not often a crime novel is written by an author who committed a brutal premeditated murder at the age of fifteen.
It is a British historical piece as well, "bring[ing] to life the idiosyncrasies and mannerisms of Victorian high society—the servants, the below-stairs gossip, the peculiar customs.” The author has done her research to realistically portray the life and times.
According to a Q&A with her at the end of my book (which I quoted from above), she was crowned the “queen of British historical mystery” by the Chicago Tribune.
I should've read this long ago. I have always been a fan of Anne Perry's Thomas and Charlotte Pitt novels, but for some reason I hadn't read her William Monk series yet. I am so glad I did! Monk is a muddle of a man. So many contradicting emotions. Hester is a wonderful character. Anne Perry puts such strong women in her books set in anti-woman Victorian England. (You'd think a country ruled by a woman would be more progressive!) And Evans is a delight. Can't wait to see more of this.
As an historical fiction fan, I am embarrassed that it has taken me so long to discover Anne Perry.
There is a tension to this story as we work alongside Monk to discover who he himself is.
It was fascinating to read about the politics of the time - how for example British jingoistic fervour, remnants from Waterloo, led the British into a war with an attitude of pride and confidence leading to a complete massacre; the truly awful conditions and spread of disease in Scutari, countered by Florence Nightingale - in contrast to the misinformation and lies found in reporting of the war back home in Britain.Very well done, Ms Perry!
I felt like clapping as I set down this book after finishing it.
I actually reached out and patted the book with glee a few times and chuckled to myself once setting it down.
I appreciated her strictness in presenting social norms and customs as they were, rather than bending the rules a bit.The characters were so real and fun.
I like that I wasn't told the complete history of each character.
ps I really like it when some of the main characters have faults that make them more real and endearing.
Themes: identity, crime, war, family, secrets, memory, classSetting: Victorian EnglandNow I remember why I don't read Anne Perry anymore.
This book sounded like a change from her Thomas/Charlotte Pitt series, which I did enjoy at one time.
But the writing was so darn bad that I really couldn't finish the book.
Why can't I remember?" and on, and on, and on, while the actual conversation just sort of hangs there until Monk comes to his senses and starts paying attention again.And the other main character, Hester Latterly, does the same thing.
Review written April 4, 20184 Strong Stars - Great serial openerBook #1 in a new for me historical mystery serial.
Set in London 1856 with the main character the police detective William Monk.
The Face of a Strangeris the serial opener from 1990 and the firts of 24 book parts so far (still a new one next to every year as it looks).
Got hooked from start and just wish to start the second book.
**********************************************« His name, they tell him, is William Monk, and he is a London police detecive.
One of the best books I've read in the last 12 months. Characters were complex, flawed, and authentic. Dialogue rang true. The mystery was good and not capable of being figured out with any certainty until close to the end. In candor, I've avoided reading any Anne Perry books until now because of my discomfort with the author's ability to get away with murder with a slap on the wrist several decades ago. It's been my loss.
This is the first book in an historical mystery series set in Victorian England. It features a police detective who is suffering from amnesia, so while he's solving the murder he's also trying to discover what kind of person he used to be.It's well written, if occasionally repetitive and often preachy (war is not glamorous, slums and workhouses are bad, classism is unfair, women are marginalized, etc.). I liked Monk and the other major characters, and I look forward to reading more in this series.
It got me hooked on Monk and friends. What a change from modern mysteries/police dramas. The insight into period detail and how it relates to police investigation was nice, but I have found Perry is just a really good story teller. I've read all the Monk books the local library has...
This novel started really strong for me, great writing, but the mystery was obvious (I saw the big "twists" coming very early on) and the post WWI theme was done with a heavy hand (too many repetition of the horror of war and its consequences). I liked it, but did not wow me, not sure whether I'll continue this series.
This is the first in a Victorian mystery series, and it starts with a twist: Monk, our protagonist, has woken in a hospital (not a nice place to be in Victorian England) with amnesia.
Monk must start from scratch, personally and professionally, and the unknowns intersect to make this book a fresh twist on a comfortable Victorian murder mystery.
Perry knows her Victoriana, and there are lots of nice period details that don't feel forced or arbitrary (look at all the research I did!).
It's a great read, with some nice twists, realistically flawed-but-likable characters, a frank look at the British social class structure, and a thoroughly Victorian atmosphere.
Not even as a mystery does it work: The characters advance completely by guesswork for the first three-fourths of the novel, making huge jumps in logic and intuition, all in no way supported by the actual evidence described.
Perry subscribes to the tell-don't-show school of writing, and when she does show, we are subjected to completely random bits of information such as what the characters were eating for lunch or what colour the cravat was or how fat someone was.
Finally, as other reviewers have noted, Monk's internal monologues, perpetually wondering what kind of a person he was before his accident and then telling us what he's figured out, are rather boring.
So right, Monk is trying to figure out who he is and solve a mystery and Hester kind of helps because she knows people who fought in the Crimea.
In every single novel Monk (or Thomas Pitt in that series) is always, always ham stringed by his inability to infiltrate the upper class system where these crimes are almost always happening.
I am in love with the William Monk mystery series by Anne Perry!
It is set in Victorian England and is replete with vivid descriptions of life during that time period.
The book frequently addresses the great disparity that exists between the rich and the poor in Victorian England.
William Monk, the brilliant local police detective, is called in to investigate the brutal crime.
Monk has only just recently been discharged from the hospital following a terrible horse carriage accident in which he suffered severe head trauma.
Monk is suffering from amnesia and does not remember who he is or anything about his life prior to the accident.

Set in London in the 1850s (no dates are given, but the Crimean War is prominent), The Face of a Stranger is the first in a 20-volume series of novels featuring detective William Monk.
I won’t give further detail here, since detective stories are particularly easy to ruin with “spoilers,” but mention of Imogen leads me to a much more interesting character that deserves a look, her sister-in-law, Hester.Hester Latterly is an intelligent, independent woman seemingly born at the wrong place and time.
Anne Perry creates the world of England at the time of the Crimean war. I am confronted with the class system of the society at that time. I feel the chill of rain and fog as the less fortunate experience it. This first in the Inspector Monk series is captivating and exciting. I may have read some books in the series but now I am going to enjoy going through them in order.
Be aware that you can truly help people only by aiding them to become what they are, not what you are.""Too many women waste their lives grieving because they do not have something other people tell them they should want.
Whether you are happy or not depends to some degree upon outsward circumstances, but mostly it depends how you choose to look at thing syourself, whether you measure what you have or what you have not."This is the first book in the William Monk and Hester Latterly series.
The story takes place right after the Crimean War, and Monk is placed on a high-profile case: to solve the murder of an aristocratic young man who was wounded in the war.
Clues are hard to come by and, all the while he is trying to solve the case, he is also trying to learn more about himself - and about a mysterious woman whom he senses he might have been involved with and who might have information about the murder.This is the third mystery I've tried in the past few months and none of them have wowed me, although this one was pretty good.
I read this for book club and the book club leader LOVES William Monk books and has read about 10 of them.
There is so much description of that era that bored me for a while but by the end of the book, I could totally imagine what it would be like to live there in that time.
She is a great author and the story ended up being great.
It's full of twists and turns and it's a neat idea that the person telling the story is figuring things out along with you.
I really enjoyed this book! Way more than I expected to. There was one section where the character of Hester was introduced and you sort of get to know her. I was a little bored during that. But otherwise I was quite glued to it and wanting to read which is always a good sign! I like William Monk. He's likeable and you want him to do well and overcome his amnesia and the barriers he runs into in solving his case. I will absolutely keep reading these books!
Detective Monk wakes from a coma in a Victorian London hospital not remembering anything about the criminal he was chasing when his accident happened. He can't remember anything. He realizes if he does not solve the crime he has been entrusted he will be pushed out of the police force. In a word, brilliant! I thoroughly enjoyed this mystery and Victorian London coming to life in the pages.
Interesting concept - Detective Monk awakens in a hospital with no memory of who he is or what happened to him. He is gradually learning about his life and himself while solving a murder. Enjoyable read.
A significant difference here was that this amnesiac wakes up in a hospital in Victorian London and is informed right away who he is: a peeler (so named because Sir Robeet Peele, who established a special police force that became the Metropolitan Police Department of London … but, interestingly enough, they were called bobbies in England and peelers in Ireland, which suggests that Ms. Perry--who lives in Scotland--either does not have her Victorian slang quite correct or else that she is better informed than whoever wrote the Wikipedia article about that police force).There is, indeed, a special set of requirements pertaining to modern day authors who want to write novels set in the Victorian period: they must be able to adopt a vocabulary that clearly belongs to that age, while at the same time making sure that the modern day reader will be able to understand what the strange words mean without looking them up, as most dictionaries available to the average reader would not include such terms, but now we have the Internet, which is positively full of not only the word lists themselves but also learned tomes describing their etymology.
I don't get what this is trying to be. It seems like maybe it wants to be a serious historical novel, but then the plot relies on a case of silly bonk-on-the-head amnesia. The characters are mainly insufferable. Loose ends never get tied up. Even the amazing Davina Porter could not save the audio version.
(view spoiler)[Shame, that William Monk wasn't the murderer. It would have been interesting, if he had continued his work and had to live with the knowledge that he is capable of brutal murder. Especially since the author had committed murder herself, she has some first hand experience, what a lost opportunity. (hide spoiler)]
Very slow start - but gains undeniable momentum after the first act. I did not enjoy it at first and might have abandoned it had this not been a book club book, but found myself very much hooked by the final act.
Although interesting to visit there via this story, one cannot doubt how difficult a time it would have been to live in if you were female and/or of a poor or working class background.
Her use of the Crimean War as a back story in this book was also effective to highlight the inexcusable waste of human life in that war, the atrocious lack of simple cleanliness in hospitals and Florence Nightingale's important work to raise awareness and improve simple hospital care for the sick and injured of that time.
