https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/359559.Sanatorium_Under_the_Sign_of_the_Hourglass
Ακούσατε ποτέ για τις παράλληλες εκδοχές του χρόνου που ακολουθούν δυο ξεχωριστά μονοπάτια; Ναι υπάρχουν τέτοια χρονικά παρακλάδια, παράτυπα και σκιώδη, όμως όταν κάποιος έχει να αντιμετωπίσει την εισροή τέτοιων πολυάριθμων γεγονότων δεν μπορεί είναι ιδιαίτερα επιλεκτικός.
Ακόμα κι αν κάποιος κουραστεί από τις εκτενείς ποιητικές περιγραφές του συγγραφέα, αξίζει να διαβάσει τουλάχιστον αυτό το κεφάλαιο που στέκεται στην καρδιά του έργου και δίνει τον γενικότερο παλμό.
Από τις πιο σύντομες, σουρεαλιστικές και αστείες, ένα χιουμοριστικό σχόλιο επάνω στην μορφή του πατέρα, είναι το "Ο πατέρας μου κατατάσσεται στο Πυροσβεστικό σώμα".
No wonder that the impatience and helplessness of beauty had at last to find its reflection in our sky, that it therefore glows over our horizon, degenerates into atmospheric displays, into these enormous arrangements of fantastic clouds I call our second or spurious fall.”The world is surreal but one must just have a proper mind to appreciate all the surrealness of the world… And for the down-to-earth ones the world is a grey and common place.“‘Is my father alive?’ I asked, staring anxiously into his calm face.‘Yes, of course,’ he answered, calmly meeting my questioning eyes.
‘It is part of my existence to be the parasite of metaphors’ writes the author in the very short story Loneliness.
This entire collection of short stories is riddled with metaphor.
This collection, to me anyway, is a heady mix of the metaphor with childlike fantasy and delirious dreaming that seemingly mixes the authors life memories/observations that cover his childhood through to the fear of old age and all the trials and tribulations in between.
The final few lines of The Old Age Pensioner were sadly amusing as an example of that inner laugh.
The Old Age Pensioner also covers the hilarious.
jestem literacko rozbitybo wyobraźnia Schulza nie zna graniczbiór ten jest o wiele trudniejszy od "Sklepów"dlatego jeszcze nie raz wrócę do tej książkiprzykro mi, że to już koniec jego opublikowanej twórczościa może w jego tekstach jest jeszcze więcej nieznanych mi sekretów…?
He cajoles one into taking residence in his mind through a fireworks display of prose that is as unrelenting as it is demanding.
It is a conjurer's act, one made up of fragmented memories--a walk at dusk, a wax figure exhibition, an erotic sighting of a young girl--that keeps one reading.
there is no twisting or turning plot, no character portraits in which to identify, only billows of smoke, enveloping prose.
As an undergrad, I read Street of Crocodiles, his more well-known work.
My only regret: I wish I had read it sooner.
With Nabokov, it is density and shadowplay; Schulz, wonderment and flights of joy.
This is about the one and only Bruno Schulz, a man snubbed out at 50 by fucking Nazi’s.
Read one of the two extent works by Schulz and I guarantee that you will want to exhume a Nationalsozialist just to throw his bones in the garbage like so much katze scheiße (not that Schulz was exempt by virtue of his genius any more or less than his 6.5 million brothers and sisters were—they were all exempt by a virtue far greater than literature: Life).
12 short stories and one long one linked by the strong voice of the author and illustrated by him with an equally idiosynchronistic flair.
The long story, Spring, delves into "the marginal world beyond the limits of a wilting afternoon" with such thorough tenderness that no one need bother to describe that season again.
And how tragic that he was not able to write the account of his murder by a Nazi officer in a personal vendetta, and that he never got to live out his life as one of the most brilliant writers that ever lived.
If there are any writers out there who managed to establish a voice as distinctive, as potent, or as beautiful as Bruno Schultz's with so small an output, I haven't heard of them. His two tiny, genre-less (sometimes anticipating Allen Ginsberg's incantations, other times evoking the headier films of Guy Maddin) books represent an extraordinary genius and a criminally truncated life.
Since the title-story is in the middle of the book, it took few seconds for me to locate the chapter, but in between that minute temporal gap, while the pages flipped effortlessly, my eyes and mind caught the black ink of the page and I without any conscious control started reading the first chapter called The Book!
After getting madly drunk in his language and freeing myself from its caressing hold, while "still the taste of it lingering in my tongue, its cold fire on my palate, the width of its breath fresh like a draught of pure ultramarine", I took my pen and wrote a love story thinking about his Anna Csillag, "who becomes the apostle of hairiness", of whose hair it is said, enough to broom the floor of the earth.
"Sometimes my father would wander off and leave me alone with The Book; the wind would rustle through its pages and the pictures would rise.
At other times, The Book lay still and the wind opened it softly like a huge cabbage rose; the petals, one by one, eyelid under eyelid, all blind, velvety, and dreamy, slowly disclosed a blue pupil, a colored peacock's heart, or a chattering nest of hummingbirds."  It is not an easy book.
It is mostly dreamy, disconnected near-magical and to an impatient reader looking for a straightforward story, it may appear to be exhausting and scattered.
The story "Loneliness," which is translated also as "Solitude" -- not at all the same thing!
-- deserves five stars, as may the last story, though that one is perhaps too evidently influenced by Kafka, whom Schulz admired immensely.So taken with the stories, eventually, was I that I now have them in another translation along with the Street of Crocodiles story collection and other writings in a single volume, at GoodReads here:http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14...All of this seems to have been put on this site:http://www.schulzian.net/index.htmby a different translator, though the actual book is nice and the translator for all is listed as Celina Wieniewska, whose translation I found invisible yet attractive.

There is a problem in writing fiction that verges towards the highly personal, in that the writer wants to exorcise deepest tragedies or familial burdens but at the same time is conscious of not revealing too much, because any writing that is attempted towards this goal rushes to that dense limbo filled with the scars sustained on the self, and in so doing the struggle becomes to make it readable, to turn it into literature - by "not telling", to revolve around the personal tragedy that has to be liberated but not really touching it, because on its own it is uninteresting.
Symbols are entertaining.This book is filled with such stories, all concerning the father, the central all-important myth of Bruno Schulz's life, all in one way or another a survey into the art of myth-making.
(Rereading this summer for the umpteenth time.) I will learn Polish, someday, for the sole purpose of reading this in the original.
Такива при Шулц са лятото, скуката, самотата, изобилието и излишеството, детството, на което всъщност е посветена цялата книга.
Детството като "Великата книга" - мит, в който вярваме и с годините изоставяме, за да се върнем по-късно към него и да осъзнаем, че никога не сме се отдалечавали; детството като "Гениалната епоха" и "Републиката на мечтите", където животът е подчинен на поезията, приключенията и тайнствата на природата.
Обичам книги, в които прикрито (или не съвсем) главен герой е малко, самотно градче, сякаш откъснато от света, но в което се случват вълшебства.
При Шулц това е родният Дрохобич, намиращ се в днешна Украйна.
Published later but composed before Schulz's magnificent Street of Crocodiles this is a little diffuser, it's narrative vagueries a little more discernable through its thinner broth of description. Still, it's Schulz, strange and captivating, especially in the title story of a hospital that sustains its patients by removing them from the progression of time entirely, probably his most obviously story-shaped piece. Between that and the long, tangled tale of waxwork intrigues and the coded meanings of stamp albums, "Spring", I think I'm ready to revisit the Wojciech Has film adaptation that brought me here in the first place.
„Санаториум „Клепсидра“ от Бруно Шулц (Издателство "Аквариус", 2017 г.; превод: Магдалена Атанасова) е една от най-впечатляващите книги, на които съм се натъквала в последните няколко месеца.Тя е красива творба, цяла една нова, „флуидна“ реалност; историята на една меланхолия, която е "по-истинска, по-ослепителна и по-ярка" от другите меланхолии. Манифест, писан с пламенния ентусиазъм на нестихващата тъга по отминалото.http://knijno.blogspot.bg/2018/05/blo...
Youtube: 00:51:44: Bruno Schulz was a Polish Jewish writer and artist whose life and career were cut short when he was murdered by a Gestapo agent in 1942.
He left behind some truly masterful works of subtle surreality.
This is the title story to a 1937 collection, unfortunately his last.
Opening: It was a long journey.
Barely one or two passengers travelled on that forgotten branch line, where the train ran just once a week.See also:Lost Childhood - The Cruel Fate of Bruno Schulz Cinnamon Shops: A long, rhapsodic and dream-like account of a doomed errand undertaken on a magical winter night.
Прочетох 200 страници, след това не продължих.Този сборник не ми даде нищо ниво. Открих усещания, линии, вълни, които се припокриват с творчеството на Борхес и Пруст. Това ми хареса.Но за жалост единствения начин, по който харесах прочетеното е оценявайки го чрез останалите в мен впечатления за други много по-добри автори. Един вид леко паразитна книга. Което е далеч от представите ми за добро четиво и далеч от причините заради които чета - научачване на нещо ново за себе си и за света, докато се забавлявам.
A portrait of a quirky family, the father reclusive and mad, the son who has seemingly lost his memory.Eddie - Beginning as a character sketch of a young man who lives nearby, soon delving into one of his seemingly favorite topics -- how everyone goes to sleep.The old age pensioner - A nostalgic story, also with a familiar theme of loneliness, here with only some touches of the bizarre.
An old pensioner envies those around him with busy lives, and re-enrolls in school and relives his youth.Loneliness - A very short continuance of the previous story, reflecting on aging.Father's last escape - This of course brings Kafka's "The Metamorphosis" to mind, I suppose it's impossible for it not to, it's told in the same absurd way, with acerbic humor.
But then there were ingenious passages of real pleasure like the following and I was giving it a second chance:  “At such a time [at dawn] I would dream of being a baker who delivers bread, a fitter from the electric company, or an insurance man collecting the weekly installments.
The girls, busy, would stretch their young legs, tauten their high insteps, play with their cheap shining shoes, or clack around in loose slippers.” All in all, it's a poetic book, suitable for those who love similes and metaphors ("It is part of my existence to be the parasite of metaphors, so easily am I carried away by the first simile that comes along.
The writer takes a train to a sanatorium where his father sits literally, it would seem, in a state between life and death and he too finds himself in transit eventually, also in a state that might be somewhere between the two.This is not a story from which you should expect any firmness or clarity.
Indeed, I cannot think of any writer as good as Schulz in reproducing dream states.
It does seem to be about death and loss in some way - there is a grieving in this story which is more than just sadness.
Sometimes when I read one of his stories, it is almost as if I AM dreaming--I can sense something momentous happening but often it is just outside my grasp; I get to the end it dissipates and I am left trying to reconstruct the impression that the story first left.
I remember the words, but I can only get that feeling by actively reading them.
My actual dreams are incredibly lucid when I'm on a Bruno Schulz jag, too.Maybe Schulz is not for everybody, but, if you want to feel a story as well as read it, no one's better.
Това, което ще напиша ще го сложа в спойлер, въпреки че надали има нужда :) (view spoiler)[Когато недовършеният птичи свят се появи, беше от осакатени птици, които човешкото гъмжило уби с камъни.
...Тези будки и сергии, сковани от сандъди от захар, облепени с ярки реклами на шоколад, пълни със сапунчета, с весела евтиния, с позлатени боклуци, станиол, свирки, вафли и шарени ментови бонбони, бяха спирки на лекомислието, дрънкалки на безгрижието, пръснати из гъсталаците на огромната лабиринтна нощ, която плющеше от ветровете.Грамадни тъмни тълпи се нижеха в мрака срещ шумна неразбория, сред тътренето на хиляди нозе и брътвежа на хиляди уста - гъмжило, сплетено в своя вървеж, точещо се по артериите на есенния град.
”Sanatoriul timpului”, cea de-a doua parte a Manechinelor, folosește, mai ales în primele povestiri, un limbaj mult mai ermetic și mai saturat de metafore decât în ”Prăvăliile de scorţişoară”, depărtându-se de subiectul concret și coborând în abstract, prin intermediul unui delir lingvistic.
Atenția se translatează dinspre interiorul casei - cu tapetele mișcătoare și camerele uitate - spre parcuri și grădini, spre o deconstrucție poetică a vegetației și a luminii, dar și spre o figură nouă ce apare în lumea naratorului - Bianca, poate prima iubire din copilărie, ființă misterioasă și tristă care-i aprinde imaginația copilului-bărbat - fără a cădea, însă, în latura sexuală.
His account of the experience is not so much descriptive but expository, rather than pay dues to the physical aspects of the stamps - the colours, shape or even quantity - Schulz conceptually juxtaposes the collection with his character’s prior-to-then assumed omniscience of his nations leader.
This technique is used frequently throughout the collection of stories - Schulz manages to communicate on a whole manner of things without really paying attention to the aspects of those things that the majority of writers would feel compelled to describe in detail.
This technique just reinforced the dream-like qualities of his writing style, it almost feels as if you, the reader, are experiencing his dreams through the flurries of visions he reveals.
This book is so much about descriptions of things that when something actually happens, like a character becomes smitten, or a tension develops between two friends, it seems almost unwelcome.
lustful, overelaborate, tropical, and extremely cynical." That's the good stuff.There is a passage early on in the first story where the narrator muses whether an Age of Genius has ever occurred.
It may very well describe each of the stories in this book:"There are things that cannot ever occur with any precision.
Some books are slow reads because they are dull.
Others are slow reads because they are dense, or because their syntax has been tortured into ludicrous shapes by some authorial failure.
Sanatorium Under the Sign of the Hourglass is one of those rare books that reads slow because of it possesses an intense, dreamlike beauty.
Occasionally I would read portions aloud, to hear how they sounded free of the page.
I would emerge from several pages of reading with the same sublime exhaustion one feels after swimming a mile.I suspect I will return to this collection once a year until I am dead.
Schulz's life story, at least the wiki version-- specifically the end part of it-- is as disconcerting and surreal as his writing.
A so-called 'pet Jew' to an occupying Nazi, he was shot in the head and killed as he went out for a loaf of bread.
The killer was another Nazi staying in town who had issues with Schulz's 'owner', and was either settling accounts or upping the ante on the fascists' wierd feud.
He did not comply with Steven King's 22 rules of writing.
He did not comply with anyone's silly rules.
Det er sjældent at man møder en forfatter der håndtere sproget så mesterligt og samtidig er i stand til at vride og oplæse de rammer fortællingen befinder sig under.Som læser efterlader Schulz mig i en følelse af at jeg har været på en rejse men at jeg ikke har fatte alle nuancerne af det der er sket omkring mig.
Schulz er en mæster til at forføre læseren ind i hans univers der opfattes gennem barnets fantasi fyldte øjne.Nok skamrusning fra mig, fantastisk bog læs den!
