https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18166936-the-strange-and-beautiful-sorrows-of-ava-lavender
It's a story about a family, spanning multiple generations - it's about life, love, desire, obsession and wasted youth...
It's a tale about many people, each crafted with rich personality and an almost painful humanity (even those not quite so human).The writing is so beautiful, but simply so, that I found myself feeling inexplicably emotional at times.
She captures the intense and feverish desires and obsessions of youth and first love/lust - with more than a little perversion at times.
And I really love this book.*(view spoiler)[I should probably add that this does not include Nathaniel Sorrows.
how could you miss what this book is??"people who are disappointed that the title is misleading because it is not only about the sorrows of ava lavender, but of her whole freaking family - i don't even know how to respond to that.
this book is a true reader's delight.i absolutely adored it, and i am truly going to miss these characters.i will leave you with this excerpt, because it seems fitting."It's… dangerous for someone like me to be out in the open."As if in response, my wings started to flutter underneath their shroud.
OH MY GOD! this tale was not just made it was threaded and crafted. I feel like it has burrowed inside of me.
Reading this book felt like wrapping myself in a warm blanket on a misty, autumn day. The writing was beautiful. The characters were magical. The entire book felt like something you could sink into. This has been added to my favorites shelf, and I'm already looking forward to re-reading it in the future.
It’s (the plot) like a breath of fresh air on a hot summer day; riveting.You also need to know that the pacing is slow and many descriptions are present (due, we can say, the low amount of dialogs.) The final problem I had regarding this book is that, even though the story is mainly set in the 50s, I didn’t exactly feel it as I may have been supposed to.
Maybe because no other GR friend of mine expressed the shock that I felt in his or her reviews.
Or maybe I just read this wrong.
Which leads me to mention this (trigger-) warning: If you don't want spoilers, stop reading now.
This novel features one violent rape-scene and I was definitely not prepared to read it.Apart from that, I really loved this book.
And it really reminded me of the film Amélie.Can't wait to read Leslye Waltons new project, whatever it's going to be.Find more of my books on Instagram
It was an interesting fairy tale but it really didn't sweep me away.
It felt meandering - with characters and plot ideas that could have been exciting but for me fell flat and aimless.
This is marked very often as Magical Realism, which is why I decided to read it for my Magical Realism course, but I think it doesn't actually work as Magical Realism.
Instead I would call it a fairy tale, simply because (at least in my explorations) Magical Realism is magic that goes unquestioned in its society but in this story it does mark people as different and other.
TRIGGER WARNING: THOSE SENSITIVE TO DEPICTIONS OF RAPE MAY WANT TO SKIP THIS BOOK......is what I wish someone else had put at the top of their review so I could have fucking saved myself from running headfirst into that scene. The moral of this book: everything of beauty in this world will eventually be destroyed by those who covet it.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Pinterest
No one talk to me ever again 😭😭😭
Read this book.
It will stay with you forever.What a way to start off the year!I will admit, the first few chapters I wasn't really feeling it so much.
However, after that I really got absorbed into the story.
The way this story is told really allows you to familiarize yourself with the characters and their situation.
It is Ava Lavender, the protagonist, telling the story starting with her great grandmother, then her grandmother, then her mother, and finally her.
I loved the whimsicalness of the character's and the situations they are in.
REREAD : 4TH OF MARCH 2016.RATING AFTER REREAD: COMPLETE 5 GLORIOUS STARS.REREAD IN 7 HOURS. IT'S NO JOKING STUFF.HOW DO I FEEL? GUTTED. EVISCERATED. DEMOLISHED. DESTRUCTION HAS NEVER FELT BETTER.I have nothing to add to my previous review except: DAMN YOU YOU FOUL EXCUSE OF A MAN. YES YOU. First read: 24th December 2015 4.5/5 STARSI AM AWASH WITH FEELS. A GREAT VARIETY OF THEM.Do I attempt purging my feels by screaming at the top my lungs?Or JUMP AROUND like the world is alight in sparkling col
The pace was FAST.There were times when I felt like thisAnd other times I felt like how I imagine crashing into the whomping willow and getting repeatedly whacked by it would feel.I just didn't even have enough time sometimes to settle down and process some things before I got towel-flogged with more information.I like to think of this story as a testament to love, and everything it is, everything it brings: Joy and happiness, hope, heartbreak, peace, desire, longing-
The details are, I think, needed for us to understand where Ava's coming from, where she's headed-and maybe even why she had to end up the way she did.
I’ve had this book on to-read and to-buy lists intermittently for about three years, without ever once building a concept of what it was about beyond “girl with wings.”I guess I definitively didn’t expect “girl with wings in historical fiction narrative featuring brutal violence, tragic discussion of love, horrifying moments, overwrought symbols, and treacly writing.”But that particular oddness salad is what I got.All the bits I wanted more of in this were not what I got.
(c)Q:But neither Emilienne nor Connor ever once stopped to ponder the miracles love might bring into their lives.
(c) A beautiful allegory of love lost.Q:Viviane answered her with a soda fountain smile and a declaration: “I’m going to fly.” (c)Q:John Griffith was an angry, prideful man who believed he deserved much more than life had given him....
(c)Q:But, mostly, I like to think that Jack Griffith, my father, smiled as I let go of the railing behind me and, stretching my wings to that star-studded sky, soared into the night.
It's one of those books that once you start reading it you just feel like the book opens up and you step into it.
I honestly could smell the bread baking and my mouth watered when the story was in the bakery area.
It reminded me of a previous favorite author of mine before she turned on readers.
I think some people have gone into this book expecting a book about the "girl born with wings" and it is that somewhat.
The whole story does not center on Ava Lavender.
I think this gives the reader a chance to really know these wonderful characters.
◆About 150 pages in the book is about tragic love stories about Ava's ancestors.
◆It was extremely confusing towards the beginning.◆I had a hard time remembering who was which character because of the names.
◆Still wondering what the plot is.◆(view spoiler)[EXTREMELY angry at that unexpected rape scene.
(hide spoiler)]◆I'm still confused about that ending, but I have my theories about what happened.
(hide spoiler)]RTC because like, I need to process what I've read and I'm like still try to figure out what fucking happened at the end.
⊙※⊙60 pages in and:○Confusing as fuck.○Still don't know any of the names.○Why is this so emo and depressing???○Why such tragic love stories?○Death.
No doubt, one of the strangest stories I’ve ever read but true its title, The Strange and Beautiful Sorrows of Ava Lavender is very beautifully written though also truly very sorrowfully.
It’s a mesmerizing tale that riveted me to every word, to the individual stories of the three women of the Lavender lineage that often twisted my heart in pain or sadness but sometimes also cracked my face in unexpected humor.
;) The reason for my four stars which I’ll hide in spoiler tags: (Please do not click if you haven’t read the book).
The story is supposed to be half-tragic but it’s still too unfair even with the hopeful ending.
*sighs*  (hide spoiler)]
What a wonderful little story.
Ava Lavender, you have rightfully earned your place on my favorites shelf!This was a beautiful family saga about three generations of women.
All the women's stories are stories of foolish love and its consequences.
Ava Lavender is a perfect example of why I love magical realism and why we should all read more of it.
I love how while this is still a story about human emotions and about what it means to be human, it has so many magical elements.
SECOND READ: May 2017Why is it that we fall in love with some books? And others we don't? I can never fully explain those feelings when I love a book. I can never find the right words to express all that is contained within my heart. Within my soul.  “If my mother kept a list of the reasons she confined me to the house on the hill, she’d have a length of paper that could stretch all the way down Pinnacle Lane and trail into the waters of the Puget Sound...To put it simply, my mother worried. She
"Love makes us fools" This book has just come along, stolen my heart and smashed it to smithereens…and I would gladly let it smash my heart for all eternity… it is just the most beautiful, most breath-taking, most peculiar and most lovingly crafted novel I have read in recent times.
I am utterly taken with it.Many thanks to my GR friend  Olivia  who read this as a buddy read with meSo what is ‘The Strange and Beautiful Sorrows of Ava Lavender’ about ….It is about a girl born with beautiful wings, about her family, about her mother, her grandmother…about their lives…about their abilities to love with all their hearts….about the sorrows that are seemingly inextricably linked with their loves….and it is utterly enchanting.From the prologue:
"Love makes us such fools."  Ava Lavender’s family has a history of tragic love stories. Her great-grandmother, Maman; grandmother, Emilienne; and mother, Viviane’s stories are all told through this generational saga exploring themes of love and love lost.And then there is Ava, the girl born with wings, where the story truly takes shape. The Strange and Beautiful Sorrows of Ava Lavender is magical realism at its best.“Older” Ava, our narrator, opens with a powerful prologue that instantly hook
It isn’t until “Younger” Ava’s tragedy that we start to really see a change in that aspect.If I have one form of criticism it’s that I was hoping to find out more about “Older” Ava. Much of the novel involves relating “Younger” Ava’s family history all the way until after the climax, but we never really have a glimpse into what becomes of “Older” Ava. The prologue asks the question of where she came from she is since she’s born with wings and I was searching desperately for that answer, but it never came.
It is a story about people who cut out their hearts for love, a woman who becomes a canary and a handsome man with his face blown off.
And it is a story about a girl  who is born with wings.
The story centres on the lives of three women, Emilienne, Vivianne and Ava.
Readers should be warned that there is at least one scene in here that is so dark and violent, in such an unexpected way, that it fare caught my breath and held it hostage for a soul shaking moment or two.
This book was beautiful, sad, whimsical, lovely, everything. It took a little bit for me to get into it but once I was in I was hooked. It's a lot different than what I was expecting and I'm so glad it was. BEAUTIFUL BOOK.
“And that might just be the root of the problem: we're all afraid of each other, wings or no wings.”  The Strange and Beautiful Sorrows of Ava Lavender is the sort of book that is difficult to describe. I can give you a list of adjectives: strange, beautiful, odd, whimsical, magical, different, unique, tragic, hopeful, melancholy…The book is all those things and so much more. It’s a novel you have to experience for yourself in order to understand its magic.It’s about grief and loss, desire and
The book is written in first person but most of the time you actually feel like it’s third person as we experience events through these multiple POVs. This makes the story feel more unique and you will come away thinking “I’ve never read anything like this before”.What I probably loved most about the book was the writing style.
The Strange and Beautiful Sorrows of Ava Lavender is a novel driven by characters and atmosphere, not plot.
It’s a truly strange and beautiful novel and I think many will find things to love.
If you like the film Big Fish, then I think you'll enjoy this story.
At times I was completely captivated by her ability to create such a unique and fantastical story.
At others I felt like the pacing was moving along so quickly I couldn't absorb everything being told.
And while the story is by no means action-packed, it's engaging and sharply paced.
The latter half of the story lost me a bit with some additional storylines being thrown in, but the writing was always on point.It's a quick, refreshingly original, and stunning debut novel.
This is my first magical realism and I am looking forward to reading other books in the genre.
The title and synopsis made it look like the book is all about her but its more about her whole family including her ancestors.I also didn't like the story telling technique adapted by the author.
After that her grandmother, mother before her.Thankfully the things I love in this book surpassed the ones I disliked.
I love the plot so much, I've never read anything quite like it, it was absolutely amazing.
Ava was amazing, thankfully she didn't take over the women in her family.
“Love makes us such fools.”  Well the title pretty much says it all. This book was so strange and so beautiful. the writing pretty much immediately drew me in because it's so pretty and probably the lilting, lyrical prose accompanied with the meandering, flowing plot was my favourite thing about this book. I get the ending of this book is controversial and I'm firmly in the didn't like it camp. It really took down my enjoyment of this book. But I still really enjoyed this overall. The character
I loved that this book showcased such strong relationships between women.
I do feel like talking about this book too much is a bit pointless since I am literally the last person to read this ever but I think the above pretty much sums it up.
This book had such a lovely warm feel about it despite how much tragedy and heartbreak and hurt it dealt with.
While I really disliked the end, I still enjoyed 90% of this book anyway.
I do think this book is incredibly hard to explain though, you really just need to open it and read it and you'll understand what everyone is talking about by "strange and beautiful" straight away.
Seldom do I ever come across books that make me think for weeks and make my heart ache, wanting for more.
Walton seemed to me like the Queen of Words and I cannot believe that this is her first novel.“Children betrayed their parents by becoming their own people.”I didn't think I would like this book when I read the first few pages.
I was mesmerized and fascinated with how Walton weaved the story, how she crafted it and how her final words made my heart ache.At several stages, I would want to tell the characters in this book that everything will be okay.
Of the stories and the myths that surrounded my family and my life ― some of them thoughtfully scattered by you perhaps ― let it be said that, in the end, I found all of them to be strangely, even beautifully, true."This book wasn't trying to be exquisite or moving.
It was just simply told a story of three generations of Roux/Lavender women who doomed by love.
It had a unique way to tell each women's relationships (with both romantic and family relationships) and how each of those relationships affected the perspective of love in the next generation.
Contrary to the title The Strange and Beautiful Sorrows of Ava Lavender is not entirely about Ava Lavender. It is about three generations of women in the Roux-Lavender family, from Emilienne to Viviane and finally to Ava, and heartbreak.  “Love makes us such fools.”  A recurring line and the prevalent theme. The book treats us to the different acts of either selflessness or foolishness in the name of love. How you perceive them depends from which camp you’re from. I myself belong to the latter.T
I’ve read books with poorly incorporated magic realism and the result is ludicrousness (I am almost sure this is a word), and I can say that Leslye Walton has no such problems.
In fact, Walton's writing has that same lyrical, lengthy paragraphed beat as that of Gabriel Garcia Márquez, down to the nonchalance in breaking my heart in a single sentence.The characters are well drawn and pleasantly strange - Emilienne is either a clairvoyant or a mentalist, Viviane has an uncanny sense of smell that can detect changes in the weather and emotions, and Ava has her wings.
And yes, you should still consider this book because trust me, most of you will adore The Strange and Beautiful Sorrows of Ava Lavender.
There’s nothing much to hold distaste towards, the characters, idea and writing are all brilliant.The main reason to why I did not like The Strange and Beautiful Sorrows of Ava Lavender was simply just because of me.
Let me get to why you still should give this book a go.The Strange and Beautiful Sorrows of Ava Lavender has the most beautiful writing.
This is simply the story of generations of one magical family and their tragic experiences when it comes to love.
This hardly makes sense to me.Also, I can’t relate to a man that fights for a girl all through his childhood and adolescent, periods of life that a child really craves parents’ attention and approval, and then suddenly decides to abandon this woman when he becomes an independent adult just to gain the said approval.I can imagine dragons very easily but I have a hard time imagining such stupid human-beings.My other problem is the message of this book.
