https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20170296-neil-patrick-harris
I expected this book to be witty.
You don't expect those to be heartfelt, emotional stories....Perhaps I should start by saying that I came to know Neil Patrick Harris in a different way than people.
(And, to tangent briefly, still makes me think he would do a great job of playing Bast, should my books ever make it to the screen.)I mention this to let you know that I came at this book as a fan, but not as your typical sort of fan.
Simply said, it was a great book.
Also, he wanted you to be a bit jealous of his husband's game.Inside that book, you'll find out about his experiences with:CelebritiesInterspersed throughout the book are not only tales of NPH’s run-ins with celebs, but also short notes from the famous names themselves.
While reading the book you become aware of his statistically impossible streak of good luck and he does have an impish sense of humor so perhaps he’s some sort of leprechaun??And that, kids, is what I thought of his book.BTW, Neil: “Kungaloosh”[Straightens tie, vanishes in puff of smoke]*See what I did there?["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/How can I describe my feelings about my experience with Choose Your Own Autobiography???? Well, this pretty much sums it up: Buckle up friends ‘cause this might be a long one . . . Where do I even begin???? I guess I should take my inspiration from NPH and sit down at the computer in order to journal my feelings: Let me start by saying you kind of have to be a NPH Fangirl to really appreciate this book. Although funny, Neil’s story foc
I guess I should take my inspiration from NPH and sit down at the computer in order to journal my feelings:
Let me start by saying you kind of have to be a NPH Fangirl to really appreciate this book.
Neil Patrick Harris has done it (and talks about it) all.
Wait, am I the only person in the world who didn’t know not only this guy’s name but that he’s James Caan’s son????
I’ll just crawl back under my rock now).Not only does NPH discuss his professional life, but he talks about everything else as well.
I also loved Annie and used to drive my mom nuts singing "It's a hard knock life."NPH was blown away by the show "Les Misérables," calling it a "phenomenal, transcendent experience." Les Miz is my favorite musical and I am in crazy love with the soundtrack.He acted in a bunch of community theater productions in his hometown.
(In audio, Neil basically read the book in sequence, and he adapted the choices at the end of each chapter by saying something like, if you want to host the Emmys, wait a little bit.
Someday we will be over our rediscovered love for Neil Patrick HarrisSomeday we will no longer think every single thing he does is awesome and magicalSomeday we will watch someone doing a shitty job at hosting the Oscars or making a healthcare website or pitching for the Red Sox and not think "They should have gotten Neil Patrick Harris, he would have been awesome at whatever this is"Not today though my friendsNot todayUpdate: Neil Patrick Harris releases trailer for book, continues to be entertaining. How does he do this? Shouldn't he have plummeted into smug shtickiness like three years ago?
Well, I’ve never read anything like this book before. I tried to read it in a Choose Your Own Whatever style, and also in a linear way – neither worked for me. Obviously, this kind of writing is not for me. As for the content, I expected something different. I thought it would be more hilarious, and as sparkling as NPH’s personality. I love NPH, seriously, but his autobiography didn’t get me involved emotionally. Apart from this, the book was still fun, sweet, and interesting.
A CHOOSE YOUR OWN NPH AUTOBIOGRAPHY??? Note to self for October:Step 1: buy this bookStep 2: buy a pregnancy test kit just in case it can get you pregnantStep 3: renew driver's license
I am charmed.I'm a big NPH fan going all the way back to his Doogie Howser days, so I was really excited to listen to this audiobook.
And I promise you that you will leave this audiobook feeling a kinship with Neil Patrick Harris in one way or another.
Not surprisingly, NPH is also a great narrator, with a voice that feels familiar and emotional.
He did an excellent job narrating this book, and I sort of wish he narrated other audiobooks too, just so I could keep hearing his voice.
An easy, fun listen, and an extremely satisfying audio experience.
I used to adore reading the choose your own adventure books as a child although I would never choose the right option and always ended up dying of thirst or some other horrible death.
I still knew that I had to read this book because there is just something about the way that he tells a story.One thing that I think is genius about this book is the fact that I will certainly be picking it up quite a few more times.
I don't think that the book would be nearly as appealing if it were to be read cover to cover.Neil Patrick Harris does have an interesting story to tell.
I think this book is more emotional than people realize.Lastly, I felt like a book like this would be virtually impossible to enjoy on a Kindle, particularly where using it in the intended way comes into play, so I shelled out $25 or whatever for the hardcover, which I deeply regret.So, one star for the fact that I couldn't finish it due to the format + five stars for the writing and non-made-up content = a 3-star book.
and 'How I Met Your Mother') and a Netflix show ('A Series of Unfortunate Events'), he starred in theatrical productions, did guest spots on TV series, starred in TV movies, had parts in big-screen films, hosted award shows, starred in popular YouTube series, and is now a successful author.Neil Patrick Harris as Doogie Howser, M.D.Neil Patrick Harris as Count Olaf in A Series of Unfortunate EventsHarris's stories about his career - and his co-stars, directors, and people he worked with - are generally rendered in an upbeat, positive tone (the book is not a mean-spirited tell-all).
One of the most detailed stories in the book is about Harris's starring role in the Broadway production of "Hedwig and the Angry Inch." It's interesting to see how he got the role, prepared for the part, and was able to do eight shows per week while juggling other responsibilities.
Which means that I have read the book, jumping around, precisely like the old adventure books my brother had when I was younger.
You haven't read an adventure book where you have to pick your own way?
Then I feel sorry for you, they are great, I wish I had one of them right now (well if I had one I would probably just cheat to get to the ending).
So there is probably parts of the book that I have missed, but that is part of the fun.
This is a great book.
Since it's a choose your own book, I guess I'll be reading it a few more times. So far it's very charming. Just what you'd expect from NPH.
Then I got Alan Cumming's beautiful memoir in the mail and remembered this one.
I was excited but a little apprehensive as well, sometimes autobiography/biography and me don't get along.Right from the start, Neil put a smile on my face and had me laughing along with some of the stories.At times touching/sweet/hilarious, he pulls you in and doesn't let go.
It's like you are sitting there with him, curled up with your favorite drink.The section where David came in and talked along with Neil was one of my favorites, I could just imagine them having so much fun and big smiles on their faces.
Actual Rating 3.5I grew up watching Doogie Howser, M.D. reruns, and have spent the last nine years waiting for more episodes of How I Met Your Mother to watch, often over and over again, but I knew little about Neil Patrick Harris’ personal life.
I knew about David and Harper and Gideon, but not how NPH had come out, how he had met his husband, or about how he knew he was born to entertain from a very early age.
You can either do the choose-your-own adventure team, either playing around with the format (there are several authentically horrible deaths) or just reading the parts you're interested in.
Sure!
You can also read the book straight through, which is actually somewhat less confusing than it sounds.
You'll go through his life in somewhat chronological order, with the exception of a few odd pages of magic tricks, cocktail recipes, and the aforementioned horrible deaths.If you're already a longtime fan of NPH, you won't be learning much new.
Just as an example.
No, you won't learn much new here.
Interesting concept, funny stories - from serious to seriously outlandish. Very entertaining.My only complaint was that it was tough to make sure I read every single page, but I had that same problem with the original Choose Your Own Adventure books (I swear that I never made it out of the Cave of Time!)
Oh great here we go again!Ted: This story is going to leave you speechless and make you love Uncle Neil even more that you thought you possibly imagine!(Cue the theme song)♫♫ pa pa pa pa pa pa pa pa pa pa ta da ta da ta da ta da da da ♫♫Ted: The year was 2014, and by now I already fell in love with your mother, Aunt Robin was married to Uncle Neil, and life could not get any better!
(And if you check out my CBR5 reviews, you’ll know that I read a LOT of comedic memoirs, so I do have a frame of reference).The trick he chooses – writing the entire book in the second person, turning the reader (“you”) into “Neil Patrick Harris” – is a fun one.
I don’t know – I’m having trouble articulating because I really want to like this book, and I really still do like Mr. Harris, and putting one’s life story essentially up for critique is impressive as hell, but at the same time … this book just wasn’t for me.
It's surprising how often he names names considering how "nice" the rest of the book is.Things that wear thin after a while are the fictional choose-your-own-adventure bits and the fact that all the pointless bits written by other people are read by some guy with a British accent doing a Masterpiece Theater sort of shtick.
I'm sure there is a tension when you're writing something like this because you still want to keep some private things private, so hard's hard to know if NPH is as glib and happy-go-lucky as he seems or if he's presenting that sort of image on purpose.
5 StarsThis was quite possibly the most fun I've ever had while reading an autobiography.
Secondly, it's written in the format of a choose your own adventure which made it even more wildly entertaining.
I'm a bit OCD which is why it took me months to read; I just had to have every adventure this bio had to offer.
In NPH's shoes I died a time or two along the way - once involving Big Bird and an avalanche (READ IT!!) - but that just added to the fun!
I laughed more times than I can count and I even shed a tear or two along the way.
This book beautifully explains what make Harris such a marvelous performer: he is singularly focused on providing the most entertaining performance possible. Here he's made the actor memoir into a delightfully entertaining book. It's not because he's had such a fascinating life, although it's been a pleasant one, full of rewarding work from an early age, and it's not because he spills a lot of secrets. Mostly you walk away from this thinking what a devoted family man he is and how much he enjoys his work.Very nearly pure fun.Library copy
I tried listening to the audio version of this and I couldn't. It was so bad and confusing. DNF.I am hoping to someday go back and read the actual book.
So I jumped at the chance to read this book, and I wasn't disappointed.It was every bit as witty, funny and sweet as I thought it will be.It was also insightful and heartbreaking at times.However I had a little trouble with the structure.I know that some people will like the Choose-Your-Own-Adventure style, I did too at first, but after a while it was frustrating to me.
I mean I jumped from his first role straight to the night he hosted the Tony awards for the second time.It felt inconsistent a little, sooooo I decided to cheat, and I read it cover to cover( blasphemy I know), but I don't regret it.Aside from that I loved the book, it made me love NPH even more, I would recommend it to any fan .
3.5 stars
I could not have loved this more if I tried.
I listened to the audiobook, knowing that I was losing the choose your own adventure-ness in favor of NPH's narration.
The audiobook works around the formatting with relative ease and is still fun.
Neil (because we're totally on a first name basis now) is a wonderful narrator.
He could narrate the dictionary and I would listen to it.
David Burtka makes a cameo to annotate the story of how they met and it's just adorable.This was a refreshing take on the standard celeb memoir, absolutely worth a listen.
I absolutely loved this book! I have been a fan of Neil Patrick Harris' for years now, so I was already very excited to read his autobiography. I even gave the audiobook a try, because I had great expectations since he, himself, reads the book. It was wonderful! he is funny, charming and an open book. I was engaged throughout and didn't want it to end! That says it all!
However, reading his autobiography was the most illuminating, educational, entertaining, touching time I've ever had with a celebrity bio.I remember when NPH “came out.” In the book, he recounts the nervousness he felt during the process: he'd been brought to this point by malicious rumors and gossip which had basically forced him to make a statement about his life, something he was not only unsure about how to handle, but unsure about how it would be received (naturally enough).
As I read his autobiography, I realized my initial thoughts were too shallow: NPH is not just a cool guy, he's an amazing human being.
I may very well be gay for Neil Patrick Harris.
Neil Patrick Harris is a quality person.You may think that I am exaggerating, because "all he is, is just an actor - and not even an Oscar-winning one.
First of all, I never read any of the "Choose Your Own Adventure" books, so this format that Neil borrowed for his autobiography was very refreshing and fun: you get to read your own gay biography and make your own gay choices in NPH's life.
Today Neil Patrick Harris is a happily married gay man with two children, an accomplished career in television and Broadway.
