https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3465.Three_Weeks_With_My_Brother
DO YOU LIVE YOUR LIFE THE WAY YOU WANT TO BE REMEMBERED?WHAT IF YOUR LIFE WAS PUT TO PAPER WOULD YOU LIKE WHAT YOU SEE?
EVEN IF YOU DON'T LIKE EVERYTHING, HAVE YOU LEARNED FROM YOUR MISTAKES?
I've read a lot of books by Nicholas Sparks in the past and I am quite curious on the life of this author.
When I saw this book, I was intrigued not only by the title, but it piqued again my curiosity about Nicholas Sparks' childhood and family.
This was on my to-read list for quite a while and recently I was checking on what book I should read next.
If you are fan of Sparks' works and also curious on his life, you should check this out so you can take a glimpse of it.
This one's specifically for John: look I know you don't respect Nicholas Sparks, but you've got to admit that if someone presented you with the opportunity to make millions upon millions of dollars by writing books you'd probably take it, even if all you could write were romance novels. Nevertheless, this book has absolutely nothing to do with The Notebook or Message in a Bottle and I guarantee if you read it, you will appreciate it. So do it, just like I read Game of Thrones for you.
رواية يكتبها (نيكولاس) بمساعدة أخيه (ميكا) وذلك عندما يقرران قضاء رحلة حول العالم معاً، فهذه الرواية ليست مجرد رواية من خيال الكاتب، بل هي قصة حقيقية واقعية ومواقف عاشها الكاتب، وهذا ما يجعلها أقرب وأصدق وأعمق.وليست كذلك سيرة ذاتية لحياتهما فقط -مع كون هذا أكثر ما أهمني وما ركزت فيه- وإنما هو يُعتبر من أدب الرحلات، فتارة يذكر عن الرحلة وعن مغامراته فيها مع أخيه، وما شاهداه -وإن له وصف جميل أعجبني- وتارة يرجع للماضي ليتذاكر مع أخيه عن حياتهما وطفولتهما بكل ما يتخللها من مغامرة وشقاوة ومواقف محزنة كانت أو طريفة..
إنها نوع من السير الذاتية التي كتبت بطريقة فريدة...تبدأ برغبة الأخوان بالقيام برحلة معاً..لزيارة معا
Thanks to my mom for introducing me to this book, it is totally different than any other Nicholas Sparks book. It is actually a memoir written by his brother and himself. Tells the story of his life in a very personal way as he takes a 3 week trip around the world with his brother. Warning: it is a very sad book! I loved it though - couldn't put it down. Makes me want to go read all his other books now that I know where he got his inspiration.
I wasn't reviewing when I read this! Loved it. Obviously they are in a position of privilege, but the moral themes discussed I enjoyed.
Sparks beautifully weaves stories from his childhood with a trip around the world with his brother. Have tissues on hand. It'll make you cry.
This book is kind of two stories wrapped together: the first being Nick’s 3-week trip around the world with his brother – the only other living member of his family; the second story is how they got to be the only living members in their family (aka their family life and the separate deaths of their mother, sister and father).
I found myself much more interested in the second, flashback-style story about their lives.
Still, I will give the Sparks some props on portraying their family in an interesting way so as to encourage the reader to invest his or her time in finding out more about them, but the writing definitely seemed kind of cautious as opposed to the raw-depth I’ve admired in other memoirs.
There's a history and a story there, which I've recorded elsewhere, but the main part of that story is that I do have personal respect for the man, after a chance encounter with him at a Books-A-Million years ago.A huge crowd of women were fluttering around an author.
He was a clean cut, preppie-ish kind of guy (I remember that his blue shirt had an unfortunate white collar.) Normally, I like to meet authors, but when I found out it was Nicholas Sparks, doing a book-signing, I tried to skirt around the crowd.
Sparks' faith is evident, as is his strong love for his family.
I'm old enough now that I no longer apologize for anything that I read; I certainly no longer feel that I have to justify my reading selections to anyone or feel bad if I read popular fiction, etc. With that said, I read Sparks fiction regardless of the disdain I receive from some of my peers. I picked this book up expecting the same cliched, romantic, overdone plot of his fiction books. I was pleasantly surprised that this book was different. I have a complicated relationship with my family, and this book made me feel good and hopeful for reconciliation.
This book was such an adventure.
I was also honored to attend IMCC's First Annual Volunteer Appreciation Event, in which all volunteer programs were invited to a lovely ceremony, with food and drink, and an opportunity to socialize with offenders that valued the volunteer opportunities made available to them.
There was so much love in that room, so much pushing and striving for a better life, over 200 volunteers were honored, and 200 offenders were present to give their thanks and show the work they were so proud of.
The main reason being was that it seemed like there were two different story lines here that the author kept jumping back and forth between.
He starts out by telling about going on a trip around the world with his brother (and not the wife?
So then I continued to read and say to myself, "Now that is interesting," but no sooner that I think that he then goes back to talking about the trip!
I have worked since high school supporting my family and the first real vacation I took was with my wife on our 20th anniversary.
You choose the kind of life you want to live."Another fun scene he recalls as kids depicts Nicholas and Micah eating their father's entire stash of Oreo cookies and the old man getting huffy over it calling the boys "vultures." Again, Sparks' true to life writing had me putting in the Kindle margins: "cracking up here!"Purchase this book, give it to a loved one, and if you have siblings let them know they mean more to you than you've ever said.[*Part of the impetus for me in flying through the book so easily was that, at the time, I was going through a failed romance with a man who has one brother and I imagined he would identify with many of the sibling scenes.]
He doesn't just start them.And now that I've read this memoir I have come to realize that the man behind these novels that make me cry and laugh out loud has overcome extreme poverty, unimaginable heartache, rejection, many failures, only in the end to succeed.
This book does that unlike no other one I have read by him.
I often though he oversold some of his struggles anyone sensible realizes his family wa sout of the poverty woods sooner rather than later, but he still felt he had to remind us of the humble beginnings.
I have never read a Nicholas Sparks book before in my life.
This is a two-part memoir, written with his older brother Micah.
One part of the memoir is about their childhood.
Each chapter starts with a certain phase of their lives (i.e. the first chapter starts with birth) and then leads into a part of the trip they took.I won't say that this book isn't without a healthy dose of cheese.
The Sparks brothers' lives weren't exactly charmed.
Stories of their early years are funny, alarming, and bittersweet all at the same time.
I also laughed out loud multiple times.
I bought his other novel The Lucky One last year in LAX because I saw that it topped the New York Times Bestsellers List and I had to kill time in the airport.Sadly, I am still not a fan.
One is a slow-reader if you do not finish a Nicholas Sparks book in a couple of days.
Then reading this book, you understand the reason why.
He also read novels (didn’t I write in my The Great Gatsby review that the character Noah of The Notebook constructed a house for his lost love just like what Gatsby did for Daisy?) but his career prior to hitting it big with The Notebook was that of a medical representative.
I've made a vow...that I won't read any "other" books by Nicholas Sparks.
It's just that they bore me and if I'm up for some romance, I'd rather migrate that energy into toward my wife than read about it and spend the energy, then treat her like a "buddy" later.So, when I read this book, it appealed to me on different levels.
Although I don't have siblings, I'd find the right person to do it with, and have many to choose from.Given that, this book delivered.
Nicholas is a good writer, giving detail when needed and background to whet the appetite.
It was really fascinating to me to hear about Nicholas Sparks' life.
The story itself goes through his trip around the world with his brother, most of which I found a little boring.
Then, intertwined is the story of his life, that part was good.
It's kind of ironic that a trip around the world would make someone feel better, and be closer to their brother.
If I were a millionaire, I would probably feel the same way.
Sadly, I would have probably enjoyed the book more it I were just hearing about his life growing up.
This book for me had me going from laughter to melancholy, from sad and upset but overall I enjoyed this book and I can highly recommend it.It covers 3 weeks wheree nick and his big brother Micah go on a group trip around the world, visiting among other places as lalibela,Ethiopia, machu picchu, the temples of Cambodia, the inka pyrimids, Easter islands and other places like that.
The book though was filled with humour and its gives a frank and honest view of the way his family grew up,
Trust me when I say, I also used to get A grades all through out my schooling, and used to do things to be that "not so troubling child" to my parents.Some of the interesting facts like Nicholas has written two horror genre novels which never were meant for publishing, and that his first romantic novel has been "The Notebook" which changed his economic conditions too and this made me feel that this author, of all the authors I might know, has deserved this moment and much more than that.I have always thought that the books a person writes reflects his personality and his perspective of life, and it is true in every sense when you get to read this book.
There are no other siblings.That is why I feel so deeply the pleasure of our own family and thank God every day for giving us the family I enjoy & love with every fiber of my being.this is copied from another - I could not say it better.I learned that: God works all things out in the end, even if to us it doesn't seem right....
My mom and dad understood how to raise children...and although not perfect, they understand that perfection only came from the sacrifice of one man for all of our imperfections....JESUS...thanks for showing me God's love...
I read this book because it meant alot to my sons.
It is the story of Nicholas Sparks and his brother and the importance of family.
Even in the face of death and grief, there is strength to carry on when it is shared with loved ones.
We all handle grief differently, Nicholas and Micah Sparks did also, but there is also a kind of unity that you feel with others who have been where you have.....you share an inner feeling of understanding with them.
These two brothers have a great bond, as my two sons do, and this story meant alot to me, primarily because it touched them.
I read it while on a road trip with my family.
I remember sitting in the back seat as we drove through Northern California into Oregon, while reading about Sparks' travels across the world with his brother.I have not, and probably will not, read a Nicholas Sparks novel.
It was a nice blend of memoir and travel writing.
Or because it was quite a nice, surprising read.
I think I enjoyed it because it was about family and brotherhood, not about some cheesy romance relationship.I'd like to revisit this someday as I get older.
I absolutely loved reading about Nicholas and Micah's life. This was an emotional read that you come to expect from Nicholas Sparks. He was the first author whose words made me shed tears, and still to this day I indulge in his books like no other author. I wasn't expecting the same emotional connection as I would have with his novels, but quickly I gauged it would be and was not wrong. I lost both my parents and two siblings within a 5 year span and could really relate to his struggles. Great book that I recommend to all.
Well, I read half of it, put it down to sleep then didn't pick it up again for a few weeks. Usually a bad sign, but not really in this case. It wasn't a riveting read, but it was very well-constructed. Went back and forth between the present world-spanning trip and memories of the past, but in a way that seemed fairly natural instead of forced. Made me want to check out another Spark's book to see how his fiction reads.
هذه المرة الأولى التي أقرأ فيها لـ نيكولاس سباركس ، استمتعت جداً ، ذكريات الطفولة ومغامرات الشباب ، كل التفاصيل كانت جميلة وممتعة ، الرواية قد أقرب لسيرة عائلة سباركس أكثر من كونها سيرة أخَوَين وصديقين ومُغامرَين .الرواية تستحق القراءة ، بل إنها ممتعة جداًFive stars
A great book. It is an autobiography that completely dispels any notion the author has had a charmed life - the need for which dispelling he admits.
سيرة ذاتية دافئة، وشيقة ، و لم تخلو من الألم.
