https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156484.Exterminator_
By the time I hit 21 my impressions of William S. Burroughs included:1. Al Jorgensen was a fan. I remember a picture of the two together.2. Heroin.3. Short guy with a hat.4. Burroughs killing his wife while trying to shoot an apple off her head.I’m not sure from where these impressions emerged. Ok, #1 can probably be attributed to a picture on the Wax Trax walls, if my memory serves me well, but the others impressions’ origins are lost. I didn’t add to my Burroughs schema until my folksinger bro
Burroughs killing his wife while trying to shoot an apple off her head.I’m not sure from where these impressions emerged.
Now, I fucking hate Howl, or at least I did when I had to read the book in Debra Bruce’s godawful poetry class at Northeastern Illinois University in, oh, I’m going to say 1991.
Honestly, I wasn’t even sure that story was true.So I stayed away from Burroughs for a couple decades until Tadpole and a couple others mentioned his work in a positive light.
was a very rewarding read.
Rarely have I read stories so beautifully written, so original and thrilling (Wind die.
You die.
We die., Twilight's Last Gleamings, The Coming of the Purple Better One, Seeing Red, They Do Not Always Remember), so weird (The Lemon Kid, Short Trip Home, Davy Jones, The Perfect Servant, Reddies), so thought-provoking (Astronaut's return, Johnny 23, The Discipline of DE, Friends, The End) and so moving (The "Priest They Called Him).
I would not recommend this book to anyone, only to the adventurous reader with a particular bent (no pun intended) for the weird and the experimental.
I do get the feeling though, like some other reviewers of Burroughs' work have pointed out before, that he was immensely pessimistic (some might argue realistic?) about mankind, to the point of becoming "le misanthrope" redolent of Moliere.There are also early signs even here during a relatively early work of Burroughs of his latter-day environmentalism and humanism, which is celebrated in novels such as Ghost of Chance and The Cat Inside, two books, incidentally, which I read just last month and hence still fresh in my mind.
The closest to a short story collection by the cranky and hysterical William S. Burroughs. And the fact that he once had a job as rat and insect Exterminator is something like crazy. Who in their right mind would allow this guy into their home?
The bit on the discipline of DE begged to be expanded on, the language is often startlingly vivid (even in the shitty sections, of course) and I was still stopped in my tracks by "Do you begin to see there is no face there in the tarnished mirror?" Nobody's saying Burroughs had to be a saint or only write about nice things to write good books or be worth reading, it's actually a pretty fucking low bar for him to meet.
I liked this book much more than Burrough's "Naked Lunch".
It has a pretty decent fable in a form of short stories.
We can see, as we progress through the book, that the characters are pretty much the same, although with different names.
But what I liked the most about the book is the way Burroughs speaks about humanity and revolution.
Short stories, seemingly unrelated but with same motives, put in a different time and space.
Burroughs really captured the cruel reality of people real motives and multiplied that with images of potentized horror that will make you nauseus but also aware of his thoughts.
Excellent collection of short stories showcasing some of the author's best work. My favorites, " Wind Die, You die, We die" and my all-time favorite, " They Do Not Always Remember."
Manageable, entertaining Burroughs hallucinations. Amazing what organizing into chapters does.
Commas are good. I wish I’d seen more of them in this book.
Χρόνια είχα να διαβασω ενα βιβλίο, το οποίο να μου προξενήσει τόσα αντιφατικά συναισθήματα.
Μου έδινε την εντύπωση ότι ο συγγραφέας ήταν ένας "πολίτης του κόσμου" την μια στιγμή, ενω την αμέσως επόμενη ενας εξαρτημένος από ουσίες τύπος, ο οποίος απλά κυνηγουσε τον χρόνο κάνοντας ταξίδια.
Ενα ή τέσσερα;Δεν ξέρω εαν μου άρεσε ή όχι.Ξέρω ότι με κέρδισε ο μπάσταρδος ο Burroughs.
όπως με κέρδισε και στο "γυμνό του γευμα".
Θα βάλω τρια αστεράκια, γιατί είναι εξαρτητική η σχέση μου με τον συγγραφέα από την μία και γιατί κατάφερα να το διαβάσω αλώβητη συναισθηματικά από την άλλη.
is a loosely-related collection of 30 short stories, all neurotically obsessed with the American human condition before & during the 1960s.
Like many of his other works, these stories are threaded with themes of “Control” (the American government over-reaching its power and invading privacy, commanding blind obedience and assimilation to “normalcy”), Drugs, Violence, and Sexuality.
Audrey is the writer or, perhaps more appropriately, the creator – and one can assume that he is ultimately the narrator who is ultimately Burroughs.
Burroughs always romantics the unromantic, sexualizes the unsexy, and glorifies the unholy – Exterminators!
I can only give it 2.5/5 becaues I only could follow 50% of the book.
Probably the most awkward book I have ever read.Puposeful ignorance of all punctuation.
Creating very confusing paragraph structure as he will switch character's/scenes mid-'sentence'.
It's like the words on the page turn into ants and scatter in all directions that you can't retain what you just read , you're mind is just running around like someone stepped on an ant hill.
The literary style is complete confusion and chaos.
The parts I could follow and retain were at times very poetic and often graphic.
My first Burroughs, but given his reputation I had a good idea of what to expect, and I was proven mostly right.
Frenetic, jumbled, paranoid and gleefully profane.
Apparently an "experimental novel", though it reads more like a collection of vaguely-connected short stories with a vague sense of progression.
It was a very fun read, and full of surprises - a guide for efficient life habits, pornography that explodes the faces of FBI agents, police brutality at a student protest and gay youths transforming into wolves.
Also a plot about an exterminator and heroin I think.
It was good.
I didn't realize that this would be an experimental novel when I picked it up.
It was a hodge podge of various threads and stream-of-conscious writing that was very hard to follow and pull out a coherent narrative.
There were chapters that had sparks of narrative brilliance, but these were the exception rather than the rule.
It read much more like poetry to me than it did a novel.
I guess Burroughs's writing was too smart for me to figure out overall.
I appreciate poetry when I know its poetry, but when I sit down to read a novel, I expect coherent narrative.
Mosaic-like novel, eh? Well, this has been an interesting voyage back into the world of Burroughs. It was more like short stories honestly, some of them coherent and which I really liked, some of them a heroin filled, shape-shifting, intergalactic, junky nightmare, (which I still liked in a weird and incoherent way). Not as good as junky but better than Naked Lunch, thanks for another wild ride Mr. Burroughs. I look forward to our next encounter? Maybe? Not sure. But either way, I'm sure it'll prove to be interesting!
I wasn't sure whether to give this 2 or 3 stars, it's really 2.5, based on Burrough's output I've read previously. I have to say, I was a little disappointed, in that, what I thought was a novella was actually loosely connected vignettes, that at times made little to no sense. However, some of them were quite good, and I like how Burroughs writes about his time in Chicago.
Full of the usual Burroughsian revolutionary vitriol. Thank words that Burroughs wrote so much.
A fantastic fever-dream...
Many reviewers have pointed out the flagrant racism (and general ugliness) in this book and cited it as their reason to the give the book one star, or to give up on it, and that's completely valid.
Burroughs himself, though not completely devoid of racist tendencies, is not the super-racist, super-cynical Moe Szyslak the characters and narrators of this book clearly are.
Where was I going with this?Well, anyway, I think the point is to amplify and confront us with all of our society's ugly flaws, and it does that rather well, with some ugly humor just to make sure things weren't ugly enough.

William Burroughs was a crazy man who believed crazy things, but when I read his books, I can actually hear his voice.
Exterminator!
is not quite a novel as it is a bunch of vignettes strung together, some of them connect to other pieces while others have an apparent quality of random absurdity.
There are no heroes in Burroughs' books.
The plot does not unfold.
Instead, we get a snippet here, a snippet there, and they might be chronological, and the might not.
The approach to take is as follows: Read each chapter as a piece of prose poetry.
Things have a way of kinda falling into place.
Otuz öykü, birkaçı okunmaya değer. Postmodernizm ile hiçbir sıkıntım yok, lâkin burada postmodernizm çatısı altında bariz bir "boku çıkma" durumu mevcut. İçerik açısından bir sıkıntım yok, yazar şiddeti, uyuşturucu kullanımını, toplum tarafından uç olarak görülebilecek cinsel deneyimleri, çocuk istismarını vs. konu alabilir, bütün bunlara ek olarak dilde de son derece özgür davranabilir. Ama bu kadar "özgür" davranmasa fena olmazmış ve tekrardan okunmaya değer bir kitap olabilirmiş bu. Deneysel dil? Kalsın.Mevcut hâliyle çaydanlığın altına falan koyabilirsiniz. Arka kapak yazısının sizi yanıltmasına izin vermeyin.
"There is something wrong with the whole concept of money. It takes always more and more to buy less and less. Money is like junk. A dose that fixes on Monday won't fix on Friday. Any platform that does not propose the basic changes necessary to correct these glaring failures is a farce. The lies are obvious. The machinery is laid bare." -1973
A series of vignettes, mixing the macabre and surreal. Some are more disjointed than others; one recounts the 1968 democratic convention Burroughs spent alongside Jean Genet. At times, it’s stunning and his sharp prose stuck with me. At others, I found myself racing through to get to the next part. All in all, I guess you’ll like it if you like his other stuff
It sucked and it was dumb.
2 edgy 4 me, Billy-boy.
Standard Burroughs craziness but a few really standout stories like "The Discipline of DE" and "The 'Priest' They Called Him"
It is Okay. I'm not sure if it isn't as good or if I've just read too much Burroughs too often lately.
Tried twice to get into this book. I do not care for how hard it is to follow. Loose sentence structure, confusing plotting. Will not finish.
this is like a basquiat novel, created with the background noises in society and the media and jumbled together as a story, very very enjoyable walking through this swamp of words and sentences.
