https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/570192.Anna_Christie
O'Neill received the 1922 Pulitzer Prize for Drama for this work.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: پنجم ماه آگوست سال 1976 میلادیعنوان: آنا کریستی؛ نویسنده: یوجین اونیل؛ مترجم: صفدر تقی زاده؛ محمدعلی صفریان؛ تهران، فرانکلین، 1343، در 146 ص؛ موضوع: نمایشنامه های نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 منمایشنامه ی «آنا کریستی»، نخستین بار سال 1921 میلادی روی صحنه رفته، موضوع نمایشنامه، داستان زنی سرخورده است، که به زادگاه خود، نزد پدر ملوان خویش، بازمی‌گردد و ...
نیز، اقتباس موفق و معروف سینمایی از این نمایشنامه، بیست و سه سال پیش از به دنیا آمدنم، در سال 1930 میلادی، با بازی «گرتا گاربو» در نقش «آنا» ساخته شد.
This award winning play by Eugene O'Neill was brought to the stage in the 1920's in both New York and London.
It has been revived several times over the years and was also made into a movie.
It's the story of a young girl returning home to her seafaring father, trying to rebuild her life, trying to find a safe harbor from a world of prostitution, and maybe even find real love somehow.It won the Pulitzer Prize for Drama in 1923.
It also won a 1993 Tony Award in the US and an Oliver Award in England for best revival of a play.
مسرحية درامية مفعمة بالمشاعر، في ثمانين صفحة فقط يناقش أونيل الفقر وعلاقة الأب بابنته والدين والحب بحوار رائع ومميز، المسرحية فقيرة في مشاهدها ولا تمثل تحدي يذكر لمن يرغب في تقديمها على المسرح ولكنها في حاجة لممثلين على أعلى مستوى لأن تعتمد أساساً على الحوار المفعم بالمشاعر. على غير العادة نهاية المسرحية سعيدة وإن كانت تفتح علامات إستفهام حول مستقبل أبطالها.قراءتها بالإنجليزية ولكن توجد ترجمة عربية لـ د/ عبد الله عبد الحافظ متولي في سلسلة من المسرح العالمي.
Most people know Anna Christie as the Garbo movie where the actress demanded "Give me a whiskey, ginger ale on the side --and don't be stingy, baby."The acerbic line comes straight from O'Neill's play, but the real salt comes from Anna's father, a cartoonish sailor with lines written in Swedish Chef-style dialect (he says "pooty" for "pretty.")Anna's love interest is a nasty lout, and he's plenty despicable.
A pat ending on top of the 2D characters keeps this from being great O'Neill, but (like the example above) there are some fun one-liners.
Worth reading out loud, if you can keep a straight face.
This Pulitzer Prize-winning drama from 1922 was surprisingly modern in its language. I read this whilst listening to the Librivox recording, which I found helpful for the Swedish & Irish accents -- sometimes I had no trouble understanding the spoken word when the written dialect was difficult.In terms of plot, it seemed strangely similar to Ibsen to me (except for being set in America).
As is the case with Eugene O'Neil's plays, Anna Christie is sad, depressing and makes you run for whiskey just like the way Greta Garbo immortalized the line: "Give me a whiskey, ginger ale on the side and don't be stingy, baby."
And it has even an extraordinary happy enfing!!!
Standard naturalist topics (prostitution, dysfunctional families, alcohol) but with an unusually happy ending.
Just another one of O'Neil's mediocre early works.
The story is pretty good, although I could have done without the over-the-top happy ending.
His insistence on forcing the accents on the page.
Yes, I understand he is writing a script, not so much something to be read.
His insistence on writing the accents in so forcibly makes the works almost impossible to read and shows that he lacks confidence in his actors.
One could simply say in the stage directions that Chris speaks with a Swedish accent and Mat with an Irish one and let the actors do their work.
Instead, he insists on creating illegible pages.
3.5 starsThis ended very abruptly for me. The Project Gutenberg copy I was reading said there were 69 pages to go, but the next page was the end of the play!I found the phonetic spelling of the Swedish and Irish accents difficult to follow in this play, probably 4 stars without that,
I listened to this as an audio-book while following along in my paperback copy [that had the TINIEST print - WOW]. I felt this was very well done, but it was a very sad play. Very sad indeed.
I absolutely love O'Neill's work, and was prepared to give this play 5 stars right up until the end, which fell a bit flat for me. The audiobook was really well done.
buy used Four Plays by Eugene O'Neill: Anna Christie; The Hairy Ape; The Emperor Jones; Beyond the Horizon: Beyond the Horizon / the Emperor Jones / Anna Christie / the Hairy Ape
This American play, written in 1921, was one of two little Eugene O'Neill volumes that I decided to read back to back.The first scene opens with Chris Christopherson, more commonly known as "Old Chris," relaxing at a pub, and telling fellow drinkers and friends about his daughter, Anna Christie, who is coming to visit him.
And because the play is relatively short, O'Neill doesn't waste any time moving from one scene to another.I found the underlying character of the sea interesting: Chris, a man of the sea himself, apparently agrees with his ex-wife's sentiments about its evil.
Chris ends up becoming so overprotective of his daughter.
Consequently, when Burke falls in love with Anna and expresses his intentions to marry her, Chris is overcome with anger.
Looking back at his life and the way it negatively affected his family, he is determined not to let his only daughter have a taste of it.
That decision causes a rift between him and her daughter who is also determined to fall in love.
Burke and Anna end up becoming murderous towards each other after the former finds out that she has not been honest abot her sexual contacts.
She has worked as a prostitute, and Chris has rationalized his behavior but clearly spends his time in bars.
Ultimately we learn that, in her abandonment, Anna was raped by the relatives that Chris left her with, and that started her journey into the world of prostitution.
The play resolves in one of simple forgiveness and love, but also abandonment again, as Chris and Burke have both chosen a life together sailing for South America, but vowing to return.
Anna is left again, alone and independent.This dramatic work is actually very straightforward and simple.
This play is about the men in Anna Christie's life: mainly her long-lost father and her new-found lover, but also about all males.
From scene one, Anna is annoyed at the men she's had to deal with and tar them all with the same brush: they're odious and the bane of her very existence.
He doesn't want the life of a sailor's wife for his daughter.
As Anna learns to forgive her father for being absent and to admit to herself she's in love for the first time, we come to understand her nature and the secret she's been harboring.
"آنا کریستی" نمایش نامه ای در چهار پرده، برنده ی جایزه ی پولیتزر 1922، داستان یک فاحشه ی سابق است که پس از سال ها رنج تنهایی، عاشق شده، زندگی اش دگرگون می شود اما با مشکلات تازه ای دست به گریبان است.
مت که عاشق آنا می شود، قصد دارد با او ازدواج کند اما کریس مایل نیست دخترش همسر یک ملوان، شبیه خودش بشود.
آنا پدرش را برای این که او را در کودکی تنها گذاشته، می بخشد، و کریس با ازدواج آنها موافقت می کند.
She has an unknown illness and reluctantly boards with him on his barge and comes to enjoy it, even meeting and falling in love with an Irish sailor.
It all comes to a head when the Irishman proposes and Anna refuses spilling the details of her past.
When her father left her to be raised with her cousins on the farm the youngest son began to rape her and to escape it she turned to prostitution.
The father and Irishman go on land to escape this shocking news.
But quickly come around, Matt'll marry her only if she swears on this catholic cross that she never loved any of the other men.
Old Chris is a coal barge captain and Anna has led a hard life getting by as she could.
I was struck by the disrespect Anna showed her father who wanted only the best and to believe the best about his daughter.
Mat almost immediately professes his love for Anna much to the dissatisfaction of her father.
Old Chris believes that the lives that sailors lead and the lives of those wives and families left behind is a life to be avoided.
The truth is revealed and Anna is faced with a father and lover who want to control her.
Anna Christie grew up away from her family with distant cousins on a farm in Minnesota.
In truth, she grew up as little more than a slave for these cousins and was ultimately abused leading her down a less than desirable life path.
With all of this baggage, how much will Anna reveal to her father and the man who she has fallen for?This one ties up a little too nicely at the end for me.
I almost thought it was over at the end of Act II - and maybe would have been a little more thought provoking if that was the truth.
This play made debut at the end of 1921 and I imagine that back then most people thought that how hard it was for poor father and love stuck man to learn so shocking true about woman they loved and thought to be young innocent lady.
And it wouldn’t be hard to find nowadays people, I believe, who will gladly judge Anna Christie and see her father and boyfriend as forgiving souls.
Anna Christie, in my humble opinion, didn’t deserve Mat Burke and at the end when they got back together made me angry and sad.
The character Anna Christie is the only thing approaching some life.
For all his macho bluster O'Neill was surprisingly good in writing female characters.
However Anna Christie's Swede father Chris and her beau are stock characters - the bumbling, good-hearted but thick immigrant and the hot-headed, a**hole young buck Burke.
I was mostly hoping that Anna would push Burke over the edge of the barge during the whole play.The plot is kinda hokey and depends on the stereotypes of the male characters to approach believability - not a good combo.
Anna Christie as a character deserves a better vehicle (barge?) than the one O'Neill provides.
Didn't enjoy - one of main characters, Chris (Anna's father), is written with his strong, Swedish dialect, making it difficult (and annoying) to read...
"ven ay gat money for pay passage home as passenger den ay forgat and ay spend all money.
I don't know vhy but dat's vay with most sailor fallar.
Dat ole davil sea make dem crazy fools.
I work long time as yanitor.
Yust short time ago ay got dis yob" ....
a little bit of written dialect is fine to read but this is over the top, all the way through, and he has lots of diaglogue!
December of Drama 2015, day 25"A heavy burdenThe holy wayI can escape anythingBut loving youAlways."--Dreary Moon, by Big Black DeltaAlright, so I still haven't read The Iceman Cometh. That'll be my first non-Shakespeare selection next year, okay? This was a heavy choice all the same, and in many ways seems to pre-figure O'Neill's later stuff. Hard drinking, dysfunctional family, irreconcilable differences. The conflict plays out in a way that seems nicely reflective of the absurd way life itself tends to operate. And of course there's that keen edge of pessimism underlying it all. I approve.
Another mediocre play which follows the theme of society and 'fallen women'. Anna Christie moves in with her father on a coal barge and falls in love with a sailor, Matt, who unfortunately doesn't get along with her father. The two men struggle for who has control over Anna until she is disgusted with the whole buisness and reveals she was a prostitute before living with her father. The revalation has a shocking effect on the two men in her life, but the ending is happy. But frankly it would have been more entertaining if the three main characters drowned.
This Eugene O'Neill play, written in the 40's contains many ideas from that time. In fact one of the main hinge points of the play concerns the thoughts about women who have "fallen". However, the play makes sense, is interesting, powerful, enjoyable and with its moments of humor. I enjoyed it.J. Robert Ewbank author "John Wesley, Natural Man, and the Isms" "Wesley's Wars" and "To Whom It May Concern"
This is an early work of Eugene O'Neill. It won the 1922 Pulitzer Prize for drama. It is about the reunion after 20 years of a seafaring father and his daughter, and a terrible secret that will test their mettle. The role of Anna Christie was made famous in film by Greta Garbo. Jude Law appeared as Matt Burke in the latest revival of the play in Broadway.
A Young Girl on the SeaI didn't know of this O'Neill play. It's interesting to see how he wrote earlier in his career. The plot's simple and rather predictable, still it's got some historical significance. I got to see how a "dishonorable" women was treated before WWI and that forgiveness from men was hard to "earn."
Depressing, and somewhat difficult to read, what with the dialects (Swedish, Irish). It's a tale of reluctant, begrudging redemption. Had some good banter in places, and a couple beefy monologues. Glad I read it, likely won't read it again.I will, however, read more Eugene O'Neill plays. Next up: Ice Man Cometh. Prediction: more of the same, lol...
