https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/383186.More_Work_for_the_Undertaker
I'm reading Allingham's Campion series in order, and this was next on my list - interesting, but I had a hard time getting into it.
I kept getting the impression I was supposed to find them charming and whimsical, but I just found them rather pathetic and obnoxious (made it hard to be sympathetic to them as characters, needless to say).
Here, Allingham takes us to Apron Street, a tucked away corner of dreary post-war London.
Mysterious deaths can't be explained away by Scotland Yard, so Campion and a very welcome Lugg are recruited to move into a boarding house and infiltrate the locals.

The plot was so confusing and there were so many characters that im not quite sure what happened, but i dont care. Shes a wonderful writer and this book is a witty and entertaining gem.
This whodunnit consists largely of an endless parade of extravagantly eccentric characters of different kinds, interacting in their own peculiar ways in an obscure corner of London.
Allingham apparently set out to paint pictures of as many distinctive characters as she could think of, and stuff them all into the same book, so that there's hardly room for anyone normal.When I found out what had been going on in the end, most of it took me completely by surprise.
However, I'm no amateur detective, and when reading this kind of book I make no attempt to solve the case before the hero does.
I just read it as a story and observe.Not one of my favourite Campion stories, though it's not a bad one.
Ha estado bien, he sentido casi nostalgia por aquellos detectives clásicos
Another really good Albert Campion mystery.
He starts this book seemingly having been offered the governorship of an unnamed island but is still quite happy (in fact probably happier) moving into a boarding house to investigate a poisoning.
The street surrounding the boarding house is full of eccentrics, and dubious characters and it's totally engrossing.
It's probably not the best book to pick for your first Campion though - as there's very little explanation of his background and the reoccurring characters so I imagine if this was your first encouter with Albert, it might be a little baffling.
Probably the most complicated of her mysteries so far, in terms of number of characters, motivations, and secrets cutting across one another. Some time seems to have elapsed between the previous volume and this. I think I ought to have reread #12.
re read today....love re reading because you notice all the little things more the 2nd or 3rd time around..like a bank.manager named Henry James..LOL...re-read yet again. still a marvelous if dated mystery. If you enjoy classic British mysteries, try this one.
Love Allingham. In the current times we need more of this attitude; flippant, not so self centered but still self aware...with humor. A Campion of today how good would that be?
Boring. I don't even remember what this was about...
And his man Lugg refers to Albert as “the young viscount” at one point.
All this is by way of reminding us the exalted position that the unassuming Albert apparently holds in abeyance.Then there are the characters we meet.
Of course there is the splendid Lugg (of whom we learn a little more about in the course of the story).
The Lady Amanda, Albert’s spouse, has an important cameo role and in a way is given the opportunity for the last word (always satisfying, don’t you think?”The new and indelibly memorable characters belong to the eccentric Palinode family.
I'm not sure exactly why I liked this one so much. Everything just seemed to click for me. The plot was great, the characters superb and the sense of place satisfying. It might also have something to do with the fact that the last two books I started reading had been so disappointing I didn't finish them. It was a relief to get back to something I enjoyed.
Synopsis: detective Campion investigates two deaths in the Palinode household. There's poisoning, anonymous letters, and a vanishing coffin.
I have seen these stories on tv and this is my first time to read. What fantastic description!
Another great murder mystery! I was falsely suspecting someone else throughout the book so I was a bit sulky at the reveal, but it was still great. :D
Fascinating characters. Hard to follow in many spots. Lots of British crime slang and oblique allusions to people, actions, and past events. Still, a lot of fun.
A little confused, and confusing at times, but still a good story.
The house in which all the remaining Palinodes live is situated in Apron Street which seems like a throwback to an earlier age.
The Palinode house is run as a lodging house by an old friend of Albert’s and she welcomes him like the long lost cousin he is pretending to be.
I didn’t work out what was happening before the tense denouement though the clues are there for an observant reader.
Having said that I do like crime novels where I don’t manage to work out who the murderer is.
I recommend it to anyone who enjoys crime novels written in the classic mould.
Campion has an underling move in with the undertaker who has buried two of the family members of the Palinodes, because he is obviously up to something...but what, Campion isn't sure.
Not only does Campion have to deal with outside people who may have it in for the Palinodes, but the family members themselves have strange habits and motives that leave them up for suspicion.
Perhaps if I read more of Allingham's books I will understand more of what is being said.
I'm not sure the dialect is cockney or just 1940's British, but I had a hard time understanding some of what was being said...Other than that, fun read!
The first Allingham I've read, and I'm glad I did.
Allingham tied in all of her suspects to this enterprise somehow -there were no 100% red herrings, even tho' many of the characters (like the young lovers) were 100% innocent.
Albert Campion is apparently the regular hero of Allingham's stories.
In contrast, his junior assistant is built like a wrestler and has a surprisingly gentle way with young ladies, as well as powers of description which rival his author's.
Like the suspects, each individual policeman is clearly and delightfully delineated.
I hope my three-star rating of this book will not deter others from reading it.
I originally discovered this book in HRF Keating's list of 100 best mysteries, through which I am slowly working my way.
I can usually make my way, but the allusions in this book were beyond me.
For example, there was a character whose nickname was "Clot." This may have signalled something significant in the book, although I don't think so, but it felt, at least, like a joke I didn't get.
However, throughout this book, I often had the feeling that conclusions were being drawn that escaped me.
This is marginally better than knowing half-way through the book "whodunit," but only marginally.
This one takes place after WWII, and Albert has been though a lot.
In the beginning he is contemplating taking up a government position and leaving the sleuthing life behind.
All of this puts him in no mood to explore and assist in a new police mystery.
Margery Allingham did a great thing when she allowed Campion and all of her other characters to age and evolve the way the rest of us do.
Wild characters written in a way that still makes them totally believable and totally human.
Margery Allingham doesn't just write mysteries, she writes great novels with great, believable characters.
If I had read it before, it didn’t sound at all familiar.
At any rate, I wouldn’t have noticed how vague the references to World War II and the London setting are.
Allingham’s invented streets seem not to have suffered in the Blitz, and their features could be located in many cities, not specifically London.
I found it difficult to sustain interest in either the characters (too many to keep straight in bedtime reading) or the puzzle, which involves wildly improbable combinations of eccentric family members, state secrets, and gangsters.
Appropriately, a horse-drawn vehicle and a “wireless” police car are involved in the climactic chase.
I like the character of Albert Campion and his man-of-all-work, Lugg but sometimes their conversations leave me wondering exactly what they said or what they meant.
This book visits the home of the eccentric Palinode family (which I kept reading as "palindrome") where a murder by poison has occurred and it is Campion's job to pull all the clues together to expose the villain or villains.
The Campion books are an acquired taste and this one is not for the first-time reader.
Too much plot, too many incidental characters.....but for the Campion fan, it is good enough to add to your list.
The first thing I noticed when I opened the book was that there was a map in the front.
I love books with maps.
There's just something about being able to position everything clearly that makes reading a story (and especially a mystery) even more satisfying.
This is an extremely well-written mystery with the most fabulous characters I have ever come across.
I had no idea who had done it, though I thought the why was fairly obvious as soon as I heard about (view spoiler)[the worthless shares.
There's a similar plot in Christie's A Pocket Full of Rye (hide spoiler)].
The murder plot is interesting, but the main attraction for me is the overcast, grey, heavy atmosphere of post-war London: it permeates everything.
I don't think I've read any other book [except 'The Tiger in the smoke', another Albert Campion mystery] that has this sort of heavy, dark atmosphere.
Campion solves the murder, of course - although in such an esoteric manner that most of the clues seem to be in his head - and the book closes with a message from his wife, which is like a glimpse of sunlight reassuring the reader that there is, perhaps, hope.The writing is beautiful, full of little character insights and pictures.
Set right after the end of the Second World War, it is peopled by an extraordinarily eccentric Palinode family of Apron Street, and introduces Charlie Luke, the third and perhaps the most engaging of Allingham's trio of policemen.
Someone is apparently killing of the Palinodes one by one.
But when three calls for his help come - from the police, from the Palinodes' landlady and from Lugg's brother-in-law the undertaker - he cannot ignore the call of the "third crow." Why does someone apparently want the Palinodes dead?
And why are the local criminals terrified of being 'sent up Apron Street'.Funny, charming and intriguing - this is vintage Allingham.
Wonderful!
A really mind boggling mystery and a thundering good read.
After stumbling through the depressing Dancers and the frivolous chalice, things looked up in the coroner's pidgin.
I read my first Allingham only a couple of months ago and she is not as easy and lucid as Christie or Marsh.Her detective is also nothing like a detective and people talk in a most curiously oblique fashion .But after the first two ,I think I have got an handle on her prose style and the previous 5 has been thoroughly rewarding .These will stand re- reading a few years hence unlike Christie's ,because these books has so much more to offer than just the puzzle.Mrs. Allingham is to detective story what Lecarre is to spy thrillers...Brilliant creation of people and place.Unforgettable characters as well...
#13 in the Albert Campion series, published in 1949 and set in post-war London.
Campion works himself out of a post-war funk by investigating an eccentric family of down-on-their-luck nobs, turning down the governorship of some island protectorate to do so.
Campion is older, wiser, and more subdued than he is in the earlier books, but I prefer him this way.
And the amount of fabled British reserve Allingham used to depict the relationship between Campion and his wife and son tickled me.
Campion barely thinks of her, even after a long wartime separation; and her letter to him sounds like something from one work colleague to another.
Not one of my personal favorites, and this is #12 in the series.In this one, Albert Campion is called upon to look into two mysterious deaths in the Palinode family.
They are a group of rather eccentric people, however, the deaths are by poison, so it becomes a police matter.
Throw in anonymous letters, some strange doings at the local undertaker & a missing coffin, and it makes for an adventure Campion won't soon forget.
To be really honest, I found this one somewhat tedious and had a really hard time sticking with it.
However, that's just me; others have given this quite a high rating.
