https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/724174.There_s_an_Alligator_under_My_Bed
I honestly think I liked this book most for its insight into a child’s mind.
The illustrations reminded me of a coloring book, thicker black lines created the image and then the colors on the page filled them in.
In the classroom it could be used to spur a discussion about imagination, and whether or not the students think the alligator was real.
This book is highly relatable, so students could also talk about an experience they had when they were younger and believed there was something hiding out under their bed.
All together the story line is interesting, and the coloring book-like drawings are visually appealing.
So darn cute! I loved this story, the sweet and humorous illustrations, and the resourceful kid who solved the problem of that pesky alligator under his bed--all by himself! It's just darling.Of course, I'm a grown-up and no alligator has lived under my bed for quite some time so this book did not scare me at all and I think it's a good one for helping to overcome scary nighttime imaginings :-) But, some children may be frightened by it, see this fine review for example:http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...
Cool illustrations, but I think a kid could get scared reading this.
I like Mercer Mayer's stories and this has a catchy title, so we checked it out at the library. I think it actually scared our 6 year old, but I was able to convince her that there are no alligators in Hawaii, so it wasn't overly traumatic. Not sure if this is the best story to read to younger children!
I love this book, all the way from my own childhood to now reading it to my little child! Good thing the boy is smart enough to trick the alligator. Robbie (husband) was funny though... He kept wanting better answers. Example: Was the alligator really just the family dog?
I loved this book because it is silly and imaginative.
The little boy tries all kinds of methods to get rid of an alligator under his bed, and eventually gets his way.
I appreciate that this book doesn't have a serious message and is just a book for a good chuckle.
I think kids would love this book because it is silly and they can even come up with their own funny ways of getting rid of the alligator.
I would emphasize that sometimes kids can conquer their fears with humor.
Yet another book aimed at instilling fear in children.Sure, if you've already taught your kid how to be afraid of "monsters" in their room then I suppose this is a good book for them.Unfortunately the book also tells your kids that it's ok to take all of the food out of the refrigerator and strew it along the floor, enticing the monster out of their room.If you've made your kid THAT anxious, then probably this would be a good thing for your kid to read/do.
He realized if he wanted it gone he would have to take care of it himself so he went to the kitchen and took all the food he though an alligator would like and led a trail from his room to the garage.
The boy followed him as he ate up the trail and when he went into the garage he slammed the door shut.
At the end he leaves a note for his parents letting them know about the alligator in the garage.
The illustration in this book are so fun!
Good book for a read aloud around ages of first grade.
It's starts out with a young boy who does not want to go to bed, but not because of all the traditional reasons kids try to stay awake.
No, this poor boy has an alligator under his bed!
He makes a trail of food which leads the alligator outside and into the garage, which then he warns by leaving notes all over the garage door.
This book explores confronting your fears, and recognizing the reality children feel when facing an imaginary terror.

Another book, I read with my student today. This one is a fun fantasy about a kid who has a problem: there's an alligator under his bed. He devises an ingenuous, if far fetched scheme to lure the alligator out. It's a cute little book. The illustrations are beautiful, and the plot is amusing. I recommend as a read aloud, a book for parents to share with children, or a book for beginning readers.
For the pre-school to 2nd grade crowd and people like me who still close the closet doors at night so nothing can jump out... a picture book about a kid whose parents won't validate his claims that there is an alligator under his bed. Relocation makes this another winner of a book from Mercer Mayer. The guy's a genius.
I did a read-aloud to a group of grade six kids today using this book. We got to discussing everything from what kind of pie an alligator (Alligator pie? Thank you Dennis Lee) would eat to monsters under the bed. I've loved Mercer Mayer since I first read the Little Critter series years and years ago. The illustrations are simple yet wonderful and the story always has heart.
Alissa couldn't understand why the parents couldn't see the alligator or why the boy put a warning note on the garage door. She loved the alligator eating his way down the hall, stairs and into the kitchen.
Children are all so imaginative.  When I was at that age I always think there have a little fairy under my bed. When I was sleep she will come out to dance with my Teddy bear and my doll. Are she still under my bed now?
What I love most about this story is how sure the little boy is that there actually is an alligator under his bed. And the tactics he uses to lure the alligator out and into the garage, are classic. Another favorite!
This is one of my favorite books and has been for a long time. It is so fun to read it now with my own kids. I love the style of the illustrations and the logic of the narrator. A great addition to any library.
This story is about litter boy who sees alligator his bed. He decides to get to of this alligator. He made a plan, Will his plan work?
As a child we all fear something that lives under our bed, well here is a bedtime story just about that. A classic that is funny and witty!
This was my favorite book as a kid. My kids love it, too. Doesn't get much better than Mercer Mayer.
Really clever and fun with great art.
Day 8 Book Advent Calendar 2018
Spooky Story Time. Read by the representative of the Museum of Natural Sciences. Greene County Public Library.The pictures are a little dated but overall this story holds up well.
Nah...I mostly liked the note he left in the end. That's pretty much it
There's and Alligator under My Bed, by Mercer Mayer, is a story of a little boy who knows there is an alligator hiding under his bed.
Even though the story is told from the perspective of the little boy, he is usually hid around a corner and peeking out, so he is not central to the picture.
However, I think it helps the illustration show how large this alligator is to the boy and how it has been a huge burden in this boys life.The text of this book is also very simple, a very easy read for little ones.
The common childhood fear of having some sort of monster or animal under the bed comes to life in this story by Mercer Mayer.
Because it is from his point of view, and he truly believes that the alligator exists, his imagination is projected in the illustrations.
I think that this helps to give credit to children's' "irrational" fears, showing how, to them, they are completely rational.
This Story is very relatable for many young children with fears.
The young boy decides to get the alligator out from under his bed rather than just always being scared of it.
I love this series. It's important that kids know that they can fight their own alligators using just a little bit of wit and bravery. And, in classic Mercer Mayer style, it ends with a laugh out loud moment for parents.
You can see the author/illustrator reading his book, with pans of the illustrations, here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sNE8p0...This is a twist on the monster-under-the-bed scenario-- a young boy is convinced that there is an alligator living under his bed, but when his parents look, the alligator hides somewhere so they don't believe him.
The illustrations, in a pretty basic color scheme (not too bright, not too monochromatic), make the alligator look more dopey than threatening, but it's still understandable that a kid wouldn't want one under his bed.Mr. Mayer is excited about his book, and really gets into the storytelling, but he uses some rather silly sound effects over the story, like children laughing.
I'd cried about it and settled for some other book about an elephant (that I don't remember at all, though it'd be nice if I was able to dig that out too from the world of books one day), and now a considerable number of years later (almost two decades!) I have finally read it.
So take that kindergarten library that only held one copy!It's cute for a children's book, but I'm a little disappointed I didn't get to read it when I was actually young, because I think I would've loved it.
Since they do not believe him, he takes action into his own hands, and thinks of a way to get rid of the alligator.
The alligator follows the trail and get locked in the garage, and the boy writes a note to his father, telling him about the alligator, then goes to bed.The theme of this book is imagination, and conquering fears, since the boy got the alligator out from under his bed, and was ready to help his father with it the next day.This book would be good to use in the classroom as a writing activity.
