https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15547.Magic_Kingdom_For_Sale_Sold
I saw this in a used bookstore and picked it up as a nostaglia re-read.It's a good book, and I enjoyed it.
But the pace of the story is much *much* slower than I remember.
Part of this might be that I already had read it in the past.
But the result is that I ended up doing something I rarely do: I skimmed chunks of the book, mostly description or narration of the main character's thoughts, so I could get to the next bit of action or dialogue.For all that, I think it held up pretty well.
This was a book that constantly frustrated me by not making the most of its premise. Here you have a pretty original premise, a humorous tone, and a diverse cast of characters, and yet all that emerges is a mildly engaging but not wholly entertaining read. There were countless missed opportunities, and I couldn't help wondering how this book would have fared in, say, Terry Pratchett's far more capable hands.
This is lighter fare - the kind of book that takes your mind off the real world.
I went on to read and enjoy three more in the series.
Basically, your white American male, Ben Holiday, is a little over the mundane American lifestyle and purchases the Magical Kingdom of Landover for $1 million dollars.
Landover is the real McCoy, replete with wizards and all manner of fae folk.
It seems the perfect opportunity to start afresh for Ben.Yet, like any bargain, there's a catch.
And I'm eventually going to finish the rest of the series as it's simply a great escape.

This is my favorite book by Terry Brooks!
A normal business man finds himself looking to a propertiy for sale...
but its a kingdom!
He doesn't even believe it and he goes to find out about it.
He ends up buying it and goes to a far off world of new kinds.
Where he meets a wizard who turned himself into a dog, and his friend Willow a girl who at night turned into a tree.
This was not what he had expected to find in his new home.
As well as the responsability to go on an adventure to save the town in which he was now king.
This is my first Terry Brooks and I was a little hesitant going in. One of my good friends had recently skewered Swords of Shannara and I thought I might be stepping into a pile of crap. However, I was pleasantly surprised with this story. It was light and fun and I had a good time reading it. Maybe Brooks got better as he continued to write or maybe this story just hit me at the right time. Whatever it was, I liked this.
I always thought this was a funny read. But it wasn't! To tell you, managing a fantasy kingdom is not as easy as it sounds. But I had a good time here. I had a good time at Landover that it makes me sick of frustration that I could not find the second book of the series!
3.0 to 3.5 stars. A pretty good book if you are looking for a "lighter fare" fantasy novel. I thought the main character was well written and the story was engaging.
But Brooks can get away with that in this novel since it reads like a quasi-fairy tale, so having symbolic characters is okay.While the plot has a few slow parts, the majority of the story is well-hinged and kept me invested.
(To date, I've read books two and three with an intent to finish the series at some point in the future.)Concerning content, Ben’s law partner likes to spout some choice PG and PG-13-level words but he’s not a main character except for some early chapters.
Within ten minutes of setting foot in Landover, he had to escape the demon known as the Iron Mark and the dragon called Strabo, then ran across the would-be wizard Questor Thews, who wasted no time in demonstrating his ineptitude.
To get rid of Strabo, he'll have to convince the witch Nightshade to help him (and I doubt we've seen the last of her yet!).
To top it all off, the Iron Mark has challenged him to a duel, and the only way he could possibly survive that is through the help of the Paladin, the King's protector and champion of old.
seemed like a lot of time was spent in Ben Holiday's disbelief at finding himself in Landover.
It took me a while to feel any sort of sympathy for any of the characters.
Not until Ben's harrowing journey through Fairie did I start caring about him at all.The women of the story were flat.
Not that the male characters were particularly better, but at least they were original.The Paladin's secret was frankly cheesy, and I didn't feel there was really enough precedent for it.
And the attempt to bring some sort of psychological depth to the story came off as a little less than poignant.Still, there were redeeming points and even a few deep thoughts.
I love fantasy books, so of course Terry Brooks was on my list of must reads.
I just thought it was the right kind of book to sit back and relax and read in a day.
I'd recomend it for when you want to read a fantasy book but arent in the mood to see half the characters die or try to figure out the movements of a sword in a fight or armys in a war, or contimplate the inplications of harnessing magical power.
If you are looking for that then read his shannara series instead.
My GR friend, Werner says: "With this series, there is a case for reading the books in order; the first one gives some essential basic information, and there is a progressive development of the characters...".I enjoyed reading this book of fantasy.
It was easy to follow and the fantasy characters were fun to read about.
Terry Brooks has created a very likable character in Ben Holiday, who sets out against great odds to become King of Landover.Now I look forward to the next books in the Landover series:The Black Unicorn (Magic Kingdom of Landover, #2)Wizard at Large (Magic Kingdom of Landover, #3)
When he sees an advertisement for a honest-to-goodness magic kingdom in the Christmas Wishbook, he seizes on his chance to give some more meaning and purpose to his life.
He spends just the right amount of time being amazed and disbelieving of his situation before coming to terms with the reality of the magic and the danger.
I must also say that I listened to an audio book of the author's seminal work, The Sword of Shannara, some years ago, and despite the fact that it was the Absolute Favorite Book Ever of the guy I was seeing at the time, was not wholly enamored of the tale.
This was definitely a fun and easy read.
When he sees an advertisement for a magic kingdom being sold for $1 Million, he all but jumps at the chance, even though he only partially believes it could be real.
His magic kingdom is dying and needs a King to save it.
I felt like I was there, that I knew what was going on and how everyone felt about it.
Things never really resolved themselves in the way I'd have expected, and I like that too.
Not at all what I was expecting.
I will definitely be on the look-out for the rest of the series.
Listening to this book was so enjoyable.
The story itself was rather more relevant to today than I expected for a book written in 1986.
He answers an ad in an exclusive wish book catalog about buying a kingdom with all the trimmings; dragons, fairies, wizards, etc.
Trouble starts before Ben even gets to his kingdom, and is compounded each day by new problems.
As Ben meets each new challenge from the kingdom he overcomes challenges from himself as well.
He learns new things about himself and his motives that eventually lead to his victory in saving the kingdom (this is a story about magic, after all).
What a neat idea!
Very well done other world fantasy novel that's just plain fun & a fast read.
The writing is tight for Brooks & the characters are all vibrant.
Highly recommended for a beach read.Brooks is not my favorite author.
The first book of his I read was The Sword of Shannara & it absolutely infuriated me since it was such a rip-off of The Hobbit.
I wouldn't read anything else by him for years, but eventually I relented since my wife & I had read almost everything else the library had to offer in this genre.
There are more books in the series, but they went downhill.
I understand the point of it and we learn a good deal about Ben's character and his past and his current state of mind, but it went on a little long for me.This book is also incredibly descriptive.
This is not a bad thing, as obviously this other world needs explaining, it is like nothing we have other seen, but there were times when the length of the descriptions interfered with the momentum of the story--for me anyway.I loved the characters, the relate-ability of them, their loyalty.
Back in the early 2000s when I first discovered Terry Brooks, I read this series mainly as a way to pass the time when I read out of "Shannara" books. Now rereading this, I appreciate it much more now. I think it is perhaps as an adult, I better appreciate Ben's world weariness and the thought of "What would you do if you had the chance to rule a country and essentially create your own government". This book is also very fun and imaginative with a snarky main character. I also really like the g'home gnomes. They definitely amuse me.

It sounds like the premise of a hilarious comic fantasy: Successful lawyer sees a magic kingdom for sale in a Christmas catalogue, buys it, and becomes king.
Except, things are not as grand as they seem, and he finds himself accompanied by a talking dog, an incompetent wizard, and two goblins as his only retinue...Unfortunately, the book never really delivers anything at all.
The writing is bland, the humour is, for the most part, absent, and the story is altogether a misfire.
Enter the magic kingdom sale.
This book, sadly, wasn't, and I am not sure I see the merits in his writing.
PERSONAL REVIEW:I was pretty unimpressed...but I think it's just not my type of book.
That's one of the dangers of working in a middle school, I guess.MIDDLE SCHOOL LIBRARIAN REVIEW:Boys in my library love this book, so I had to read it.
Although I didn't enjoy the humor, a lot of my students have told me that they laughed out loud at this book.
I think I'll have to ask them which parts those were.
This book reads like a D&D module: simple plot, tightly tied band of characters, a strange mix of creatures...what's not to love if you're a boy?
Brooks' writing is superb. It flows well and doesn't distract from the story itself. I felt that I was there, struggling along with Ben (the main character).The story line itself was decent and worth an occasional re-read (this is my second time). For me, it was slow in a couple of places and a bit frustrating (possibly because Ben was having TOO much trouble securing his throne?). I'll probably read it again in a few years if I'm still processing oxygen.
I really liked this book,for me I found it entertaining from start to finish.This is my 2nd review,the 1st time I read it was 30 years ago.I do think the book was better this time.It was a little slow in the beginning,but to be expected for the backstory on the character.But after he gets to Landover things really pick-up.From one adventure to the next it was a very entertaining read.
I do like Terry Brooks. I really enjoyed his Scions of S. series. But this simply did not work for me on any level.
I absolutely adore the premise of this story, who doesn't dream of a fairytale land over which they could become King (or Queen) and have all of its' magic at their disposal.
He's a mortal man from our world yet he finds the inner strength to be come King to a land we can only dream of.This story always makes me smile every time.
I love this story and no matter how many times I read it, especially this time since it's been so long, it always shows me something new.
It’s still got the whimsical, light hearted ness I remember from the first time I read it.
It’s just a fun little romp through a whimsical fantasy world where you can expect everything to work out for the heroes and there’s not too much heartbreak.
I love heavy books, but I’m also very attached to the whimsical side of fantasy as well, a side that sometimes feels sorely neglected in anything other than MG books nowadays.
Don’t expect anything more than a trope-y 80s light fantasy from this, and it’s pretty close to perfect.
Maybe it was just me, but I felt the author had a tendency to repeat himself a lot, especially in the early chapters.
I kept having moments were I was thinking 'Yes, I get it - can we move on now?'I didn't notice this so much later on, but maybe I was just used to it by then.The story also felt a little scattered, and didn't feel like much was accomplished other than world building.
A cool concept, an interesting world, and a nice light read.Appeal Factors: Fantasy; Light tone; Easy read; Interesting setting
Ben at the beginning of the book was this gloomy constantly drunk mess due to his wife's death. Later on in the book Ben starts to show the character traits of compassion and helpfulness knowing that these traits are needed to receive the pledges of the local lords.
A family member of mine kept telling me how great this book is, and every time I spoke to her she'd ask if I'd read it yet.
It was a gift, after all, and I thought perhaps enough time had passed since I initially tried to read it that I'd start with a fresh slate.
The main character isn't likable, and there is nothing that makes me want to read the next book in the series.
I will finish listening so I can tell my family member I read the book, which was purchased for me as a gift, but ...
