https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/385706.Gregor_and_the_Curse_of_the_Warmbloods
In this installment, the young protagonist Gregor is once again recruited by the Underland's inhabitants, this time to help cure a rapidly-spreading plague.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز شانزدهم ماه جولای سال 2014 میلادیعنوان: تاریخ اعماق زمین - کتاب 3 - گریگور و نفرین خونگرمها؛ نویسنده: سوزان کالینز؛ مترجم: عاطفه احمدی؛ تهران، ویدا، چاپ اول و دوم 1392؛ در 293 ص؛ شابک: 9786002910363؛ موضوع: داستانهای علمی تخیلی از نویسندگان انگلیسی - سده 20 مداستان پسری یازده ساله، به نام: «گریگور»، و خواهر دو ساله‌ ی ایشان، در سفری ماجراجویانه، در دنیایی فانتزی، زیر شهر نیویورک را باز میگوید.
کتاب تاریخ اعماق زمین - جلد 3 - گریگور و نفرین خونگرم‌ها: نوبت پیشگویی خون فرارسیده؛ همان پیشگویی که گریگور آن را از سفر پیشین خویش به دنیای عجیب و غریب زیرزمینی همراه خود آورده بود.
Might be my favorite book in the series so far.
And I can totally understand why Ripred is Suzanne Collins's favorite character.Since this series is for a younger audience, it's a bit more lighter and funnier than The Hunger Games.
There's war and hunger and death.
(Like with what happened to a bat in the previous book or the plague in this book.
Don't want to give spoilers, so I would say it was something like....life would never be the same but at least they had each other.Suzanne Collins is definitely one of my favorite authors.
Can't wait to finish reading this series.
I am therefore so very glad I have an 11-year old daughter, because otherwise I wouldn't have a good excuse to read this series--except that they're wildly entertaining and read as easily as putting down the tastiest junk food.
The only problem: I'm now into book four and will finish it in a day or two, and there's only one more in the series.
I myself feel eleven or twelve again; a wonderful way to pass the summer.
If you want to have a fun read and don't HAVE an 11-year old offspring, borrow one from someone else and share it with them.
Diese Kluft wird gerade im dritten Teil sehr deutlich!In diesem Band zeigt sich ebenso sehr nachdrücklich, wie sehr die ständigen Kämpfe die Menschen im Unterland an sich und auch Einzelne beeinflussen können, wie sie ihr Denken verdrehen und keinen anderen Ausweg mehr zulassen können.Aber auch, das man zusammenhalten muss, einander helfen und beistehen und eine Klärung oftmals ganz einfach ohne Gewalt vonstatten gehen kann.
Mehr verrate ich aber an dieser Stelle nicht.Es liest sich sehr flüssig und wie gewohnt findet man Ende der Kapitel meist kleine Cliffhanger, die einen zum weiterlesen antreiben und ich kann bei diesen Büchern kaum aufhören zu lesen.
Gregor, O Sobreterrestre“Gregor, A Terceira Profecia” (A Profecia de Sangue) é o terceiro de uma série de cinco livros escritos por Suzanne Collins, actualmente reconhecida a nível mundial devido a outra personagem: Katniss Everdeen (”Hunger Games, Os Jogos da Fome”).Escrito poucos anos antes da trilogia de Everdeen, Gregor partilha alguns traços da escrita apresentada com a menina do Distrito 12, sendo a linguagem simples e acessível, marcadamente para um público jovem-adulto, a sua característica mais óbvia.Mais e mais inocênciaGregor deve ser lido tendo sempre em mente o seu público alvo: é inocente e puro.
Why is life so hard for poor Gregor?! :(
LA GUERRA Y LA MALDAD NACEN Y SE CURAN DESDE LA MISMA CUNA.
SUZANNE COLLINS INCREÍBLE HISTORIA Y SIGUE SIENDO UNA MAESTRA DE LA CRUELDAD.¿PARA QUÉ LEER GREGOR Y LA PROFECÍA DE LA SANGRE?1.
Para conocer el significado de lucha y amor familiar.2.
Para adentrarte a un universo fantástico y oscuro donde todo puede llegar a pasar.3.
Para conocer nuevos personajes con actitudes increíbles.4.
Para conocer el verdadero rostro de la maldad que se llama HUMANIDAD.6.
Personajes bien creados, atmósferas mortíferas bien ejecutadas, y muertes dolorosas, y una gran villana, que aún sigo con la boca abierta.7.
Yes, there are things that I can say weren't as great as previous entries into this series.
The entire story zooms right by you from crippling plague to resolution, which is good for young readers, but makes you pause if you are an adult reading this series...
You either buy into it or don't read the series.
I just love these characters so much, especially Gregor and Boots.
There are a lot of many good questions that this book brings up, as always.
It's what makes such a simply written, middle grade book just the kind of thing an older reader can find entertainment it.
Bazı yerlerde aynı döngünün etrafında gezinip durduğumuzu hissettiriyor, keşke hissettirmese.
Und das merkt man sowohl thematisch wie auch inhaltlich, denn obwohl dieser Band weniger mitreißend und rasant ist, schlägt hier die Autorin die Brücke zu einer Welt, in der niemand der rein Gute ist.Dies hängt hauptsächlich mit der großen Wende der Prophezeiung zusammen, die zwar für einen erwachsenen Leser vorhersehbar ist, allerdings zu dem düstersten der bisherigen Reihe gehört.
Fast hat man das Gefühl, den Moment zu erleben, in dem der Autorin die Idee für ihre Dystopie kam, denn schon hier zeigt sie Kenntnisse von Überlebensstrategien.
There's a bit of a formula with the Gregor books.1.
More time was spent on his dull home life, more arguing amongst the Underlanders took place in regards to the meaning of the prophesies, and oddly enough, the more controversial characters seemed to get less "screen time" this time around.The Gregor series keeps teasing at an eventual storyline where the humans are the bad guys with the rats having been misunderstood but even with some of the twists in this book, we're still not quite there yet.
They are amazing, I am so stressed for the characters while reading these, apprehensive of what I see looming in their futures, and that’s a pretty big reaction for books created for twelve year olds.
Its violent, but always so hopeful that there are better ways to solve our problems, it would be such a great tool to introducing the World War II to middle schoolers.Collins continues to write actual literature for her young readers, and I very much feel that these books will stand the test of time.
I really enjoyed this 3rd installment of the Underland Chronicles. It might even be my favorite in the series so far. I liked the plot and the major twist in the end and I loved how fast-paced the whole thing was. This managed to break my heart a bit which didn't surprise me at all because, you know, Suzanne Collins. Weirdly(?) Ripread has became my favorite character. I see him as Haymitch Abernathy of this series. :D
Cute series and perfekt to listen to on a sunny day sitting outside a cafe drinking coffee - and that is just what I did :-)
It makes me think that Sandwich and others scheduled every day from now until the series ends with prophecy-doing.Getting Gregor to the Underland is beginning to feel contrived, the prophecies even more so.
I think it would have been easier to just lump all the cryptic rhymes together to form one quest that could take place over the course of the many books.These are beginning to take on the Harry Potter rhythm I often find so frustrating: Start at home where things are rough (in Gregor's case, it's near-poverty and a missing parent, rather than living in a closet in the home of gluttonous relatives), go to a magical place, do something great, then return home.
I'm getting very attached to Gregor and Co. Each character is distinct and memorable--they feel real because they have deep internal conflicts within themselves that cause surprising reactions to different situations--but are still consistent with their characterization.
I am amazed with every book in this series how much I can love a two-year old character.
The author doesn't shy away from some pretty heavy situations and ethical questions, but she also uses enough humor, wonder and adventure to keep it enjoyable.
I think Collins was really learning how to grip her readers with the first one, and now is picking up speed.
Gregor must return to the Underland this time to fulfull the prophecy of blood.
A plague has gripped the Underland nations and it will be up to Gregor to help find the cure.
Only this time it hits far more close to home, when his mother, who journeyed with Boots and Gregor to the Underland for the first time has come down with the dreaded plague.
The only complaint that I really have is the talking ability of Gregor's two year old sister Boots.
I loved the new characters, and was sad to lose a few of them, but happy that we will get to continue to read about a few more.
The action is consistent and engaging, the characters are relatable and well-developed.Warning, though: my skin was crawling through a large portion of this book.
Not the large, personified Underland variety, but the New York City skittery icky kind.
*shudder* I'm going to need to shower again, just for reliving it all in this review.All that aside, this is a really good book, and the development of the characters and the story is natural and authentic, and very worth reading.
This is by far my favorite in the series, you really get to see how HIGH the stakes are. The action builds up there is so so much character development. I love literally everyone (which can only be said about maybe four other series). The writing is fantastic and very easy for little eleven year old me to read for the first time, and now 5 years later to still be able to love this for what it is. Luxa is a badass.
This is the least favorite in the series for my daughter, but she still liked it. She thought it was a little confusing, and didn't like the end (view spoiler)[the fact that they went on the quest when they didn't really have to (hide spoiler)], and she wished there would've been more explanation where the plague and the cure were concerned.
Leído en Julio del 2017 Ya había pasado bastante tiempo desde que había leído el antecesor a este, empece a extrañar a Gregor así que partí a la biblioteca especialmente en busca de este ejemplar.
Creo que es el que más me ha gustado de lo que va de la saga, sentí que Suzanne cambio su estilo en este libro en comparación a los anteriores, y para mejor.
Me leí más de tres cuartos del libro en una sentada, pero es que no podía parar de leer.
Siento que ha sido el libro que (espero) me esta sacando de esta resaca literaria horrible, así que mil jumbitos para el.
This one in particular fell flat due to a pacing problem towards the beginning - I can tell that Collins wanted to flesh out Gregor's life in the Overland, but it's not nearly as interesting as the Underland, and it just feels like very slow rising action.
These themes foreshadow the themes that we got in The Hunger Games, and while the message here isn't quite as fleshed-out, it feels just as complex and rings just as true.The characters are also just as interesting as before.
In the first two books of the series, Collins used a little of the slang that Gregor would use, all of it painful.
Enjoyed! A bit slow at the beginning but picked up and got quite interesting. Still surprised by the amount of violence. I wish Solovet had been executed with Neveeve. I do not care for Solovet. And Hazard is without his daddy :C Still waiting for Twitchtip to return and thankful that they found Luxa & Aurora. I am shocked that they left Gregor's mom in the underland and is he gonna tell his neighbor?! Can't wait to find out.
These books are an amazing middle grades, so unique and beautifully written. I love how these books show up how messed the society is. You can transform any of the societies in the underworld to those in our owns, how the "pure" people cannot accept those with different skin color or a different religion. feels like a "must-read" for country leaders. telling them how they should be, act and think.Suzanne Collins sounds like an amazing person
Firstly I know that I have never been the target audience for this series but did enjoy the first two books, using them as fluff reads, between books with more substance. However this will be the last book I will read of the series. The writing is too formulated and after the first book nothing new was ever really brought into the story.
Quando comecei a ler o primeiro livro, achei que não ia gostar pois não é bem o meu género, mas a verdade é que adorei.Opinião completa em: http://aviciadadoslivros.blogspot.pt/...
95 points/100 (5 stars/5)
I am really loving this series.
My son really enjoyed this book of the series.On to the next...
Gregor and the Curse of the Warmbloods is comprised of what most refer to the second book syndrome in that the story served more as a stable foot for the developing plotline. Even so, the story sufficed, the characters were unique in their own right, and the overall tone was adventurous to some extent. What this book offered more of, in retrospect, was a fiery explosion of tension and shock-inducing moments where I found myself asking what the contents of the book are actually trying to conve
And that, my friends, is where the plot thickened.You begin to see the corruption gradually unfold as Suzanne Collins begins to peel back the plotline’s layers and you’re left sitting in complete shock thinking, “This is some disturbing stuff.” All that to say, the plotline progressed in the end and it seems to be developing into something completely unexpected.+ While I was frustrated with Suzanne Collins’ decision to introduce (yet again) a new cast of characters, I have to admit that the character development in this book was well-executed; primarily Luxa who despite my quibbles, (view spoiler)[I couldn’t grasp Luxa’s offense towards Gregor.
