https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77602.The_Doorbell_Rang
There was a (fictional) book covering the agency's abuse of power which came under the radar of the majority of public - just as it is usually the case.
She did two things to convince the detective to take the case: the retainer check was for $100,000 (please recall the time and dollar's buying power when this took place) and her mentioning of Wolfe's being the only man on Earth who could possibly do it.
As I already mentioned this was quite possible one of the first book - both fiction and non-fiction - which was highly critical about FBI's usual work methods.
When the paranoid anti-Communist era of the late 1940s and 1950s began, Stout ignored a subpoena from the House Un-American Activities Committee at the height of the McCarthy era witch-hunts.
Though active in causes on the left, Stout was rabidly anti-communist and the irony of his subpoena is that he probably would have supported McCarthy's goal of finding "Commies" in the US Government, if it had actually been about that.
In THE DOORBELL RANG, Nero Wolfe is hired to force the FBI to stop wiretapping, tailing and otherwise harassing a woman who gave away 10,000 copies of a book that is critical of the Bureau and its director, J.
A pair of detectives--one cantankerous genius and one amiable nose-to-the-grindstone type--investigate the possible involvement of J.
Edgar Hoover's FBI in a murder, because who doesn't love stirring up a wasps' nest for a hundred grand?Nero Wolfe books are always smooth, competent, and fun: feet up and relax murder mysteries.
The mystery is never all that mysterious (called this one ahead of time), yet you never feel disappointed when you get it before the big reveal.
Someday, Imma read all of them.Recommend for mystery readers.
If you're new to Nero Wolfe, my best guess at this point is Fer-de-Lance, Buried Caesar, The League of Frightened Men, then this one.
I have hundreds of old time radio programs of this type and I've started to collect classics in book form as I find them.
Since detective stories require a lot of legwork and going places and talking to people, Wolfe has hired an assistant Archie Goodwin.
The final line of the book is "The doorbell rang." and by the time that line is delivered you are completely in awe of Wolfes final solution to the mysteries presented and want to just bask in the emotional joy of his answers while a would-be visitor is left on the porch ringing the bell.
Lovely.
This is a far cry from the Archie of earlier books, who once commented that his main interest in the food was the fact that it was bound for his belly.Cramer, having learned of Wolfe's case by some mysterious process, offers them the wedge they need: a murder case wherein it appears that members of the F.B.I. itself are the guilty parties.
I swear at the end of the movie when they were going over the itemized account list, I could hear Wolfe muttering about "toys for Hewitt's cat".
Nero Wolfe tangles with the FBI in 1965’s The Doorbell Rang by Rex Stout.
Mrs. Rachel Bruner, a wealthy socialite widow, comes to Wolfe to hire him because she is being harassed by the FBI.
She read the book The FBI Nobody Knows, about the abuses of J.
Edgsr Hoover, and being scandalized, she decided to spread the word about the problem by purchasing 10,000 copies of the book to send to all the important and influential people she could think of.
Now she is being harassed, with people tailing her, her family, and anyone connected with her, such as her secretary.
4.5 * for this audiobook edition. Michael Pritchard did a decent job narrating but his voice just didn't match what I had imagined Archie's voice to be.This Nero Wolfe mystery is one of Stout's best. It's so satisfying when he outsmarts the FBI and I particularly love the very end.(BTW, this cover is not the one my library Overdrive audiobook had but it it is the same ISBN)
While I knew The FBI Nobody Knows featured prominently in The Doorbell Rang, I had assumed it was a fake book, created by Stout for the purposes of his story.
Archie Goodwin maintains as a top example of the hard-working assistant behind the lazy genius because he's as interesting as the man he works for.One of the greatest strengths of the Nero Wolfe series is that Stout wrote stories that can stand alone.
Bettie's Books
A great classic detective story
Lietuviskai isleista 1975 m. "Drasiuju keliu" serijoje. "Skambutis prie duru".Nevertinu, nes skaityta ziauriai seniai ir nieko nepamenu.
I suppose that means the old ones disappear.That’s a shame, because I loved all the Nero Wolfe books (and don’t read other crime fiction these days, other than Elmore Leonard).
I think I was drawn to this book because it’s the famous one where Wolfe took on the FBI, also because he led such a settled domestic life, and a number of my friends and family are looking for ways to pass their retirements.
He lived exactly the way he wanted, and seemed satisfied (maybe that how we know it was fiction).I don’t know if this is a good place to start on the Stout oeuvre.
This story was more a challenge to Nero Wolfe to do the impossible rather than a complex mystery.
A murder mystery was involved, but Archie Goodwin figured out whodunit fairly quickly.
I enjoyed the humorous tone of Archie as he told the story, and Wolfe did, indeed, come up with a clever way to best the FBI.There was no sex.
I'd recommend starting with one of the actual mystery novels if you've never read a Nero Wolfe story since Wolfe is usually about solving complex mysteries.
However, this book is certainly worth reading if you're a fan.
Nero Wolfe takes on The FBI and J. Edgar Hoover. The ending is great. One of my all times favorite.
I own ALL the Nero Wolfe novellas so I can recommend a few to you to try.
I recommend Three For The Chair for police procedural/unusual murder methods examples.
It has A Window For Death (unusual murder method) Immune To Murder (diplomatic immunity) & Too Many Detectives (wiretapping/political corruption).
The Nero Wolfe canon goes from the 1930's to the 1970's and will give you a cultural insight on all those periods, especially early 1950's.
This is why I'm a big Nero Wolfe fan.
Dabei denkt sie sich nichts schlimmes, bis sie plötzlich feststellt, dass offenbar das FBI sie überwachen lässt.In ihrer Not wendet sie sich an Nero Wolfe, den berühmten Privatermittler von New York, mit der Bitte um Hilfe.
Dabei bietet sie ihm bereits als Vorschuss einen Scheck über $100.000 an, nach oben keine Grenzen gesetzt.
Nero Wolfe möchte diesen Fall nicht übernehmen und ist über jede anders geartete Ablenkung dankbar.
Das Buch bietet einen klassischen Kriminalroman mit dem unvergleichlichen Charme der 60iger Jahre.
Zu Zeiten, als es weder Internet, noch Smartphones gab und ein Privatermittler noch ganz klassisch seiner Arbeit nachgehen musste.
Oftentimes the Nero Wolfe books are in some never-never time.
Except when Stout decides to take on what later became one of his favorite subjects, the Federal Bureau of Investigation.In The Doorbell Rang, Stout gets his jabs in at the “privileged” position of the federal investigator, while raising issues many Americans had at the time about a “secret police” which reported, supposedly, only to the president.
A true immigrant, Wolfe has more of a feeling for what democracy is and how precious an item it is, and works harder to defend it than the “real” Americans.
A likeable installment in the genial and virtually infinite detective franchise. Having marched through them roughly in order, it's odd to have the lads still doing their Depression-era thing in the era of the Beatles, who get a passing mention as pop culture figures with too much hair. This one is interesting in that it makes a sudden lunge at the FBI's throat, which is not what you expect from a Nero Wolfe novel but is kind of fun to watch.
A lot of elements you might recognize from similar kinds of books, creating a familiar revenue satisfying to the mystery fan.A big case, a famous detective and his partner working against long odds, lies, hidden things found, and a grand unveiling at the end. Everything well executed, with some wry humor thrown in. More a battle of intellect than brawn, though there's some of that in here, too.
Undoubtedly enjoyable. This book began with a very "big brother is watching" or "Enemy of the State" vibe. But then, Wolfe's brilliance and Goodwin's tenacity made it a murder investigation with ISSUES. Fortunately for all concerned (except the murderer and J. Edgar Hoover) things ended rather neatly.
Our English teacher made us read this because it's about New York. Book 41 in a series is not a good one to start with :))
You can only read this one if you give your word of honor not to look at the end until you have arrived there by reading and relishing every previous page.
This book reminded me of old 1950's film noir mysteries! I was quite entertained by the story, and the reader's voice was perfect for this story!
Never having read a Nero Wolfe/Archie Goodwin book before (why not start with #41 of the series?), I found it very enjoyable. Wolfe is a famous detective who cogitates privately over cases, while his gumshoe Goodwin runs around talking to people and digging up facts for him. In this one a very wealthy woman thinks she is being harassed by the FBI and seeks their help ending it. Also, a murder is investigated. The book seems to be well-known for having the title of the book as its last sentence. Will have to give more of the series s read.
Not my cup of tea, the problem might be that this was the 42 outing of Wolfe and Goodwin with a somewhat outlandish premise. I don’t think I’m going to try Rex Stout anytime soon again.
Stout paired  Arthur Conan Doyle's lazy, deductive powerhouse Mycroft Holmes with  Raymond Chandler's hardboiled Philip Marlowe to create dynamic detective duo Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin.
Coming again to this tale on the heels of a book like Social Physics, it is quaint to think how the role of surveillance might have played out in our present information age.Oh, one more mark in Wolfe's favor: when not consuming Fritz Brenner's cooking, horticulturing in Theodore Horstmann's hothouse, or calibrating Archie Goodwin's crimesolving, Nero Wolfe is an avid reader.
Between the pages of each mystery lie many a fine book recommendation.
I like a good mystery.
I like books that make you think.
This is my first encounter with Rex Stout and Nero Wolfe.
I don't know if I like Nero very much as a man with this one book, but Mr. Stout got me thinking for sure.
So, if you like mysteries, puzzles, figuring out how to do a thing to get the right result (this wasn't a 'whodunit') I think you'll enjoy this one.
I feel like I can only give a five to my favorite books of all time, but maybe I should give them more freely because that makes fours my standard for a good book that I really enjoyed and would recommend, but what about books that I had fun reading but don't know that everyone would like them?
Hmmm.Anyway, my niece and sister-in-law were talking about the recent Nero Wolfe books they had read and were shocked that I had never heard of this detective series, so my niece passed me "The Doorbell Rang" right then and there.
This one is my absolute favorite of the entire Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin series.
It doesn't give any spoilers to tell you that the title IS the punchline.
But there's no way that you could figure out what that means until you have read the entire book.I believe they chose this as the pilot episode of the TV series that ran on A & E.
It's also a shorter book than most of them.
This is the one I would recommend for people to start with if they have not yet read a Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin book.
