https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/186682.Re
My favorite quotes from this book both come from the introduction:"Shikasta has as its starting point, like many others of the genre, the Old Testament.
We learn that the Earth's history is bound up with the shifting fortunes of a war between two galactic empires: Canopus, the good guys, and Puttiora, the bad guys.
It's a bit of a mess, though there are good passages every now and then.
Well, except for a brief period during the last fifteen hundred years." But now they've got their act together, and Emissary Johor incarnates as the mortal human George Sherban.
It climaxes with an actual trial in which the "white race" stands accused of all the crimes of euro-imperialism, and ends with most of humanity being killed in some kind of war, the few survivors returning to a state of grace as "Shammat" (Lessing's stand-in for the Devil) retreats from the planet.There's lots in here, but not a lot which is great.
i consider myself to have much less problem with that stuff than most people, but still at times i felt embarrassed for Lessing.On the other hand, it is an interesting period-piece, both ahead of its time and also mired in how things looked thirty years ago.
Propone que la evolución de la vida en los planetas es controlada por tres milenarios imperios galácticos rivales, quienes, a través de pequeñas intervenciones, en equilibrio con los diferentes eventos astrales, van dirigiendo el destino de las especies.
Tampoco ayuda el hecho de que prácticamente no hay diálogos, ya que casi todo el libro está escrito simulando el informe del emisario de uno de los imperios.Tampoco es un misterio que Shikasta es la Tierra (de hecho, en la edición que leí está explícito en su contratapa) y en ese contexto, la lectura se transforma en un informe de la evolución de nuestro planeta a través de la mirada de los intervencionistas de otros planetas que luego, bien podrían ser los profetas que se nombran en los escritos de diferentes religiones.
Now maybe Doris Lessing had never heard the term and was completely unfamiliar with the trope, but the most charitable thing you can possibly say is that she ignorantly recycled a very well-trod genre cliche and then did a very poor, unimaginative, and boring job of it.Which brings me to the last part of why I've decided to set this book aside and turn over a new leaf in the book of my own life, a leaf that reads on the reverse side: "Nathaniel will now feel not shame but *pride* for refusing to finish truly awful books and rating them on Goodreads anyway." The entire ideology Lessing apparently admires is ignorant and reprehensible.I give her some credit for trying to be non-partisan in her writing and for criticizing the left along with the right in her meandering and semi-coherent polemic, but the fact is that it's possible to be non-partisan and *worse* than partisan.
We are weak, foolish and highly suggestible animals, neither wise and kind enough to build our own geometrically pleasing anarchist utopia (Johor calls power hierarchies 'the Degenerative Disease') without the vital flow of substance-of-we-feeling (fellow-feeling) from Canopus, nor wicked and stupid enough to build our own hell (the present state of humanity on Earth) without the influence of an evil parasitic influence feeding on violence and waste.It was as if I had been given the task of telling someone in perfect health that he would shortly become a moron, but that he must do his best to remember some useful facts, which were a...
2: containing multiple elements, many of which contradict each other, and some that are mutually exclusive 3:top-heavy; lurching randomly in every direction at once 4:aspirations beyond achievement, and/or aspirations that are impossible to achieve 5:distinctive in being completely psychotic 6:something designed over the course of eons by a lunatic chimpanzee with his hair on fire who is in the constant process of attempting to lift himself up by his nonexistent shoelaces while simultaneously swallowing himself wholeLet me say that I like janky things.
But I have incredibly bizarre tastes, and I like to think about things that almost anyone else would consider way to outlandish for contemplation.

I really wanted to like this but it was just too dull.
I really wanted to finish this but life is too short.
I got nearly two hundred pages in and just found myself dreading reading time because I knew I would have to pick this up.There's no plot for the reader to follow.
There are no characters for the reader to engage with.
There is no point to this narrative other than to show how stupid and corrupt humanity is.
I would just need to make sure that whatever else she wrote was not like this.
I enjoy Doris Lessing and I enjoy speculative fiction. Somehow though, the combination had a tragic outcome. An attempt to be clever that fails in an impenetrable epistolary mess. If you want great epistolary spec-fic, try The Prestige by Christopher Priest instead. If you want great Lessing, read anything by her that's realist. Ignore this novel. Erase it - if you can - from you memory because Lessing was actually a super talented writer.
As I've said before, I don't give authors the benefit of the doubt anymore, so if Lessing isn't going to critique her mystical mojo of a seemingly paradisaical ethical system that works only when it isn't questioned, I'll have to do it for her.It was exhausting reading Beijing Coma and watching various mechanics of legal courts and political backgrounds put a stop to policies that would have concretely resulted in the outright deaths of increasing numbers of people while carting this around.
But then, Lessing's "Briefing for a Descent into Hell" was hard, and worth the trouble.
It runs across all of human history, adding in pre-history and moving forward beyond today and into the future.As I read it I fancied I discovered echoes of "The Four-Gated City", the final book in Lessing's Children of Violence series.
I still found that in the second reading.What I did take away from the book this time, however, is the thought that Lessing didn't, at the time, have much faith in us humans, in our societies.
I disagree with the premise, but I still, even after a second reading, regard the book as masterful.
I think I'm just reading the wrong Doris because I know people love her but this was the boringest thing ever. Just a dull froth of myth + sci fi. IT'S EARTH THE PLANET IS EARTH OMG. Hated it. Forget why I started it. Not finishing it.
Don’t get me wrong, I like slow, deep books with profound spiritual and political messages, especially if their science fiction.
I don’t recommend this book for one reason: it is inexcusable boring.
I liked the three page introduction, where Lessing makes some important comments about science fiction.
Even as an introduction to an extended series (It’s interesting that the jacket cover has summaries of the then-unpublished second and third books) this is a failure.
Any profound spiritual or political message is lost on me since I just refuse to believe that any message of importance could be this boring.
Rating 1 of 5 stars.I had to abandon this book!I read about half of it and skimmed the other half, reading some pages here and there. It just didn't work for me. I was bored almost all of the time. The writing style is way too wordy to me, the sentences too long where they don't necessarily have to be.I neither found a coherent story, nor any characters to care for, and parts of it is too much of a lecture to me. This, combined with the biblical/mystical/esoteric undertones was enough to finally
Rating 1¾ of 5 stars.I had to abandon this book!I read about half of it and skimmed the other half, reading some pages here and there.
It just didn't work for me.
I was bored almost all of the time.
This, combined with the biblical/mystical/esoteric undertones was enough to finally drop this book.The first five percent where OK, and I thought it might develop into something interesting, but, alas it didn't.
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License.
This novel is the first of Lessing's classic "Canopus in Argos: Archives" series.
In part science fiction, in part psychological-religious exploration, in part modern doomsday tale, in part pseudo-historical documentation, the story follows the earthly life of Geoge Sherban, human incarnation of the Canopan being Johor.
George/ Johor visits a near future Earth where human society is on the brink of total breakdown.
Lessing's novel in some parts expresses a detachment akin to the the science fiction of Olaf Stapledon.
Other novels in "Canopus in Argos: Archives" series include The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four, and Five and The Making of the Representative for Planet 8.
This was the latest in my Nobel Laureate readings, and I started this one I think back in May. It took me this long to finish it, and if it weren't for the fact that it was part of my challenge this year...
I chose this because I thought it was interesting that a Nobel Laureate had written a sci-fi novel, but I've been really careful to NOT read reviews before I read one of these books, since I'm trying to stay open minded.
This was practically unreadable, and while I finally figured out sort of where the book was going...
I'm not going to read this ever again.
Doris Lessing’s Re: Colonised Planet 5, Shikasta (the first in a series known as Canopus in Argos) is one of those.
At the end of the book, the reader is left asking, is there such a thing as sanity?And now Shikasta, a view of the Earth’s history that suggests the presence of cosmic influences on our race for good and ill.
Shikasta, the name that Canopus gave to our planet, means the stricken one.
This time he’s born of human parents.Canopus agents are born like us, except that they retain the memory of their origin.
Shikasta is the first of five volumes in Lessing's Canopus in Argos cycle.
Lessing herself calls these books space fiction and explains that this genre (i.e. a type of science fiction) in her eyes is unjustifiably maligned and provides the opportunity to think beyond boundaries.Essentially, the five books together represent nothing less than a holistic view of Earth and mankind.
Canopus is the home planet of a superior, almost transcendental civilization influencing Shikasta's development in the best possible way.
The antagonist of all these cultures is the Puttiora system with its rogue planet Shammat trying to destroy all positive efforts and draining energy and wealth from Shikasta.This first volume is written from the view of Canopus.
It’s much like “The Naked Lunch,” even though its sci-fi setting creates a bit more congruence between the individual stories, manifesto’s, apologies and philosophical as well as mythological deconstructions the whole of the book is composed of.There are a lot of familiar aspects of anthropological science fiction present, but this time the culture examined isn’t an imagined one but our very own human civilization.
And the fact that the book is a collection of fictional reports, often authentically dry, makes it a bit heavy.Even though some of the chapters are very interesting and entertaining- and Lessing’s talent as a storyteller is apparent on many pages- the lack of coherence disrupts the novel as a whole.
I've read some critics's reviews of Shikasta which suggest that the book is different from most science fiction in that it has well developed characters and a deeply meaningful plot.
(!) Of course, the critics still hated the fact that Doris Lessing "demeaned" herself by writing science fiction at all, so I guess no one can win.
This was so obvious in the book that it must be what Doris Lessing intended, but I have to admit I don't really like that take on humanity.
This is the third Doris Lessing book that I've read, and I feel now like I kind of have a handle on what her work is generally like.
This is somewhat common in the science fiction realm, using mock scientific reports to partially tell the story.The gist of the story is that Shikasta in pretty much Earth but that rather than the creation myth we all come to know and love as evolution, it was purposefully populated by humanoids scientifically bred by extraterrestrials conducting a sociological experiment.
It's a somewhat common theme--- what if the world as we know it was just some experiment by space aliens?
As is the case in much of the finest science fiction, distancing us from the known world can help an author frame a story the better to make points about that same world.
The basic point I heard from the author is that we humans all have a bond with each other that should be stronger than the many differences (cultural, religious, historical, etc.) that separate us.The story unfolds through a presentation of various documents about the planet Shikasta (obviously Earth) that have been archived in the library of the planet Canopus.
It was interesting trying to determine what factual places and events the author was referring to versus what portions were fiction.
I had certainly heard of Lessing before and this reading put it back in my head to get down to reading her fiction.Then, Shikasta came out, a science fiction novel by the intended.
After all, "When asked about which of her books she considers most important, Lessing chose the Canopus in Argos science fiction series (1979–1983)." Surely, I must have been missing something.Subsequent reading of volumes three and five of the five-part series did nothing to help me appreciate Lessing's work.
(view spoiler)[What happened was that a significant way into the narrative a female character commits suicide.
Within the fantasy world Lessing has created, that meant the character had worked and worked and worked, but just couldn't make it over the hump of the difficulties that always tripped her up in each of her reincarnated lives.
I just found it too painful--as reflected in the one-hit wonder song MacArthur Park:Someone left the cake out in the rainI don't think that I can take it 'Cause it took so long to bake it And I'll never have that recipe again, oh no (hide spoiler)]I finally read the end in 2007.
I enjoyed this; science fiction rather in the direction of Stanislaw Lem. Lots of diplomacy and secret agents involved as well, hardly any sci-fi-typical technology.
but the general concern about humanity is hardly ever out of time.
Somehow the book also presents a kind of theodicee, in that the reason of Man's depravity is due to 'cosmic forces', beyond the control even of the 'supervisors'.
I thought the structure of the book, as collection of documents, ordered in a vaguely chronologically, but otherwise a bit random and, I dare say, alien manner, worked well.
It was slow to get going, and once it got going was not necessarily heavy on plot as much as heavy on social commentary.
It tells the story of Earth, from a science fiction worthy beginning (the planet being stewarded by a benevolent alien race), through the horrors of war in the 20th Century.
This was challenging to read, it definitely is not a mindless read.
If you're looking for a challenge, an interesting social commentary, and your Christian sensibilities are not easily offended by things like an alien being the one to tell Noah to take some animals and get to high ground, I would recommend giving this one a try.
But I am glad i read it.It is speculative fiction written in the form of reports and diary entries, sort of first hand-sources, about the decline of human civilization and the causes of it (tampering by bad aliens, of course!).
So you have to kind of get with that narrative style, and that takes work, even for someone like me that is used to reading dry, technical work.Thought these first hand-accounts, Lessing tells the stories of all human failings, but in the end there is hope for something better.
The imagining of something better, that is what I liked about this book.
I read this as part of book club.. But I don't recommend it.. The story is very slow, has a lot of repetition and obvious things, and the language is hard to read too. The premise is somewhat interesting, but unfortunately the delivery is very poor. It gets slightly better in the last third, but IMO reading this have not been such a great use of my time (sorry if this sounds rude!).
I was quite excited to read a science fiction book written by a Nobel Prize Winner.
It is a compilation of fictional documents, reports, letters, speeches and journal entries, presented as a general study of the planet Shikasta, clearly the planet Earth, to be used by history students of the higher planet Canopus and to be stored in the Canopian archives.
Johar, an emissary from Canopus and the primary contributor to the archives, visits Shikasta over the millennia from the time of the giants and the biblical great flood up to the present.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/14414322
