https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1024910.The_Case_of_the_Sulky_Girl
In case she marries before she is 25, she must get the approval of the latter: he has the power of giving away all her money to charities if he does not approve her choice.
Does it sound complicated?Well, she is 24 and wants to get married right away so she wants Mason to either persuade her uncle to approve her choice, or somehow neutralize his complete power over her inheritance.
It looks like a boring legal case, but it swiftly develops into quite a few blackmail attempts and a murder: as I mentioned, big money is involved.It is the second book of the series and as such the characters are not very well developed.
this is a story that just couldn't hold my interest. Maybe it was the generation misogyny; maybe it was the pacing but it just couldn't hold my interest. This is the second Perry Mason mystery published and was strange.
I always imagine if Perry Mason was to be played by someone in Hollywood, it would be Matthew McConaughey. The second Perry Mason story begins again with a female client coming to him and lying, but I like the way he handles her and the different characters in the story. The rough and confident lawyer seems eager to enter my list of favourite sleuths. The story was undoubtedly good, with a touch of drama and suspense, it was a complete package.
I am pretty much addicted to the Perry Mason series.
Apart from the first book in the series, we are invariably presented with the same scenario: Perry Mason, a shrewd, astute defense attorney, specialises in apparently hopeless cases.
At the end the truth is revealed by Mason in a dramatic & gripping courtroom coup de theatre.
His legal adversaries are district attorney Hamilton Burger (or someone else from the DA office) & Sergeant Holcomb (thick-headed, biased & antagonistic cop) or Lieutenant Tragg (clever & shrewd) from the Homicide Squad.
I'm really loving these Perry Mason books. Fast paced, great twists and actually I'm fond of Perry Mason himself - he remains cool under pressure and puts his clients first even when what they're telling him isn't the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth. Though money seems to be a huge factor in determing if he takes on a case!The first Perry Mason I read, 'The Case of the Velvet Claws', had no court scene, this did and it was terrific!
***1/2.This case starts out with a young woman (the sulky girl) approaching Perry Mason seeking help with a relationship she was encountering with her uncle.
Lots of potential murderers were dredged out of the woodwork, but it was left up to Mason to trim the number of suspects down to a manageable number.
Working his way through lots of conflicting evidence, Mason manages to focus on those parts of the evidence that were truly key to the murder in the resulting courtroom drama that finishes the novel.
Not sure why it took me so long to read this book. I did enjoy it. A sassy young woman is accused of killing her uncle, the manager of her father's estate. Perry Mason takes on the case.
Continuing my very own "going back in time" (started in 2015) to discover old treasures like the Perry Mason Series, I raced through the 2nd book in the series."The Case Of The Sulky Girl" was the continued ecstasy for me in the series.
Though Perry Mason is referred in this story as a "Old Fox Of The Courtroom", his skills are clearly that of a sleuth who uses the told of the legal system to hunt for the truth AND utilizes his devious mind to uncover pure evidence that would solve the case.
I thoroughly loved the first book, fell in love with the protagonist Perry Mason (criminal defense attorney who will go beyond limits to protect his clients), Della Street (these two reminds me of Harvey and Donna), Frank Everly and Paul Drake.
Eventually, I fell in love with the author and read all about him.The Case Of the Sulky Girl.The second book of the series.
Although I missed Della and Frank, they have a very little contribution to the story in this one.Planning to pick up the 3rd book soon.I will recommend this series to those who love old courtroom dramas, crime and detective stories and murder mysteries.
I didn't see the end coming. The solution was a surprise. Just the way I like.Though I missed Della Street and Paul Drake. There wasn't much they were doing here... Plus, a bit too many words given to Perry Mason's posture, expression, etc.
This was one of the slightly more difficult-to-chew reads.
Perry Mason novels usually have scenes where some character explains their side of the story, complete with lies and all, with Perry taking it all in.
While such scenes exist in other books as well, they are usually peppered with Perry's pointed questioning which allows readers to take breathers in between witness accounts and also allows a glimpse into Perry's state of mind while examining witnesses.But that is my only gripe with the book, because overall the characters and story are great.
Frances Celane has been living under a trust controlled by her uncle for the last two years that gives him extreme discretion with her vast fortune.
One detail is that if she marries before the age of 25, her uncle can choose to give her only $5,000 and donate the rest to charities.
But the 23-year-old Fran wants to marry now.
She arranges a meeting for Mason with her uncle that shows Perry how unreasonable the man is, leaving the lawyer determined to best the man.Read the rest of this review and other fun, geeky articles at Fangirl Nation
Well, I thought I was reading the first Perry Mason case ( my printout from Fantastic Fiction) from 1997, had this listed first. The new list has ,"The Case of the Velvet Claws" as his first..&^%#@$Oh well, they both came out in 1933! :)My small/fragile HB copy I found, republished in 1944....survived. By, turning the pages real slow.This is a classic whodunit, in the best of tradition. Just like watching the reruns on TV.
Perry Mason and hispeople reading skills,solve another case.Listened with text to speech.Clean except for mild Foul Language.
I loved this book. I became something of a Perry Mason fan with the first novel I read some months back, but this sealed my fandom. What delicious pulpy noir. A murdered father, a female suspect who is a certain guilty verdict, and a number of red herrings. Add to that a stock of colorful characters and economic prose that remains lively some eighty years later, and it's easy to see how this series became a favorite, even without the tv show and the dramatic theme..
This is one of the first of Gardner's Perry Mason novels (the exact order of the first few is a mystery in itself, seeing that Internet sites such as Wikipedia and FantasticFiction contradict each other).
And there was even some humor, such as the following exchange between Perry's secretary Della Street and Mason: "Other lawyers walk into court and examine the witnesses and then put the case up before a jury.
You go out and mix yourself into the cases".
Mason reached out and took the bottle.
"If I keep it in the desk," Mason said,"I'll know that you don't get an overdose".
One sees the development of Perry Mason with many of the attributes of his character which would become synonymous with him in later books in the series, and television portrayals of the character.
However, Della Street still remains one dimensional and has yet to develop the character traits that make her a standout in the books written during the 1940s.
Key characters in the later books and television series such as Lt. Tragg and DA Hamilton Burger have yet to make an appearance onstage.
The key plot twist is alluded to briefly early in the book when it appears to be a "red herring".
This is pulp fiction.
Yes. I suspect that many of the people who gave it low ratings were because it was merely only pulp fiction.
I'd rather read one of these than watch Law and Order or whatever current pulp fiction show is currently on TV because the story is better.What's this story about?
It's about a lawyer with questionable morals who protects his clients at any cost, unlike the Perry Mason of the TV show.
A woman, his client, is accused of murder in a rather complicated case (but not so complicated I felt lost), and it's up to him to prove she is innocent.
It's been years since I picked up anything by Erle Stanley Gardener and now I'm wondering what kept me away for so long.While the writing isn't stellar by today's standards, the story gets told and told well.
Pacing is incredible - I would read what I thought was a few pages and found chapters had drifted by somehow.
What amazes me is that while the legalese and courtroom procedure both could bog down the story itself, even that has a certain thrill.
Or just engaging writing with a twist that you want to see coming but don't quite.
Either way, I will be reading more of these.
Funny little mystery written in the 30's. The vernacular is hysterical. Good twist at the end. Easy easy read.
This is the second novel in the Perry Mason series, and I have to say, this one excellent read.
Read a series starting from the first novel and going on to the next one.
This Mason tome was light-years better compared to the first.
Better flow in the plot.
Better writing.
Not clunky like the first one.
The set-up for the mystery was well done, and this time we see the real Perry Mason in a courtroom chewing up overly-confident district attorneys and smarmy witnesses.Mason in the first novel was a bit of a bully-shyster.
You're gonna like this one.
While I think Perry Mason’s second case is a little less flashy than his first, I did find this to be a more entertaining and well-balanced read. The courtroom scenes are strong and though the resolution may not shock, the process getting there is interesting and clever. The ending of this novel sets up The Case of the Lucky Legs and as I seem to be getting the rhythm of these, I am sure I will be revisiting the courtroom with Perry Mason at some point soon.For a full review of this novel check out my blog Mysteries Ahoy!
This particular novel features the intrepid Perry Mason who is to defend a spoiled, beautiful young woman who is due to inherit a fortune when her uncle deems it should be so.
Her firey temper gets her into trouble time and time again no more so than when her uncle is murdered.
Of course, this volatile young woman is a prime suspect.
She hires Mason to help her obtain the fortune and defend her if necessary.
There are interesting twists and turns in this mystery with Mason playing a different courtroom role than he has in other novels I've read.

The more Perry Mason I read, the more I want to read. Having seen the b&w series so much, I sometimes see the action in black and white and sometimes in color in my mind's eye! But, really, you can even put him in a modern setting and it would work out. The timeline of the era Gardner wrote in is also very appropriate. It's like getting a glimpse of the past, especially since this mystery was set circa 1933! Wonderful!
Chuyện kể về một cô gái nóng nảy được thừa hưởng một tài sản kếch xù dưới sự bảo trợ của ông chú. Nhưng ông chú lại vừa bị giết xong, cô gái có được thừa kế tài sản không hay phải vào tù vì cái thói nóng nảy, vô phép của mình. Các bạn hãy đón đọc nhé.
Like the other Gardner books I've read I loved the storyline, the crime, the general plot and the conclusion. I did however find there was a lot more legal jargon in this booms than most. giving me a limited understanding of what was going on.
#CrimeFiction #CourtroomdramaA millionaire(deceased) is survived by his spoilt heir 'Fran'Frances Calene.
The will is left to the whims and fancies of Fran's uncle Edward Norton who is a stickler for rules.Frances approaches Perry Mason, the lawyer who would protect the interests of his clients at any cost.
The obvious suspect is Frances Calene.
The suspicon keeps shifting from one character to the other and since the case is set in '30s , newspaper tabloids are at play just like the modern media.
The reader's suspicion keeps shifting from one person to the other.
Second book in the Perry Mason series. It is interesting to read about court room procedures in the 1930s. While the rules of evidence have changed quite a bit since then, it is still a very interesting read.
pretty good story...#2 in the series. but jesus...there are a TON of typos in the kindle version.
