https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18715598-the-new-oxford-american-dictionary
The plot really sucked! I couldn't follow it at all. :(
Now THIS book knows how to define stuff.
I have a confession to make: I love dictionaries. I love to read dictionaries. Each entry is like a mini-story! The implications of a word's history!Although a bit hefty for casual reading, The New Oxford American Dictionary covers an admirable portion of the English language, complete with numerous slang references (a warning for the purists) and many illustrative icons. Currently my favorite dictionary.
Wordy
I kinda put this on as a joke, but as I'm nearing the district spelling bee, I'm thinking I actually should read it.
please help kindle app put this in my goodreads currently reading and it wont come off i am not reading the whole disctionary
it has a definition for "blah," although not for the word "janky."
I really like the usage notes in this dictionary.
My Kindle uses this dictionary. Very often, I am told the following...."in路ter路po路la路tor: n. a person who interpolates something." ARE YOU KIDDING ME WITH THIS?!?!?
It's a dictionary. It is a good reference tool.
ok I accidently opened this and now its saying I am reading this lol there needs to be a option to delete a book if you opened it by accident or you read a small amount and don't want to read it now or even if it's so awful you just can't read anymore.
I don't like to review a book I haven't read all the way thru so putting an option for "have read so many chapters or pages but just not interesting" or something like that, just so you can get it off your list.
I do look something up now and then in the dictionary but I sure don't read it like a book lol.
How does one read a dictionary? It is in use. A bit wordy. I have not read it front to back.
Don't know how this got on my list. I didn't add it.
it's the damn dictionary LOL
I am not reading this book...........using as dictionary instead of one provided .
This is in place of the book jolt that i've read twice now and can't put double ups on so yeah. Jolts (By bernard Beckett) is a good book. You should read it.
It's a dictionary. Pretty self explanatory.
For some reason this ended up on my currently reading shelf. It's a dictionary, which means it's pretty much self-explanatory (ha ha).My one issue, believe it or not, is the fact that it can't always find a definition of a word (It's the default dictionary on my kindle fire). I suppose I should find a different dictionary to put on my kindle(s) that can also define historical words or anything that isn't strictly American English.
Cover to cover page turner. I couldn't put it down.Fascinating.I read and reread it almost every day.
Look, a dictionary never wears the label "read" in the past tense. This is a valuable tool, and I frequently turn through its "pages" but, no, I have not "read" the entirety. Solid, easy to navigate, and dependable.
very interesting
This book doesn't define me. LOL
The best dictionary of American English I've ever found. I wish they would kill most of the "personality" entries (I don't go to a dictionary to find out who Michael Jackson was), but that's just about the only flaw. This is the only prescriptive (as opposed to descriptive) dictionary of American English I'm aware of. This is the book I go to to find out what a word actually means, as opposed to how it's been used in popular culture in the last few years, which is how most dictionaries work.
This is the Dictionary on my kindle fire. I am not sure what happened to the dictionary that was previously on it. But I hate this one. It doesn't show the different tenses of the word and my last dictionary did. I really find that I miss that when I am editing a book on my kindle and need to check the tenses.
Great book to have on your Kindle for reference!
I use this when my Merriam Websters Collegiate dictionary doesn't have the word that I am looking for. It's almost always in this book. The reason that I do not use this one as much is because it is large, heavy, and cumbersome. That makes it a bit more difficult to use.
This is a dandy book, however it somehow is put in my currently reading when I look up a word while reading it on my kindle. I am not really reading it, but it is helpful to look up words I am not familiar with yet.
I'm not actually reading the dictionary...just using it to look up definitions of words.
Loved it! Probably could have used an editor. I think a lot of it is just made up.
Ending is weak. Especially the X's.
