https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/966195.Paddington_Abroad
Something I picked up to read before bed, short chapters, so low effort, and I used to love the Paddington stories when I was little. I'm very gratified to find that I still love them just as much, and that they're written in such a way as to be just as delightful and entertaining to adults as to children. Also, the illustrations are an infinite joy. I look forward to catching up with all the other Paddington books.
So even though this book is about Paddington going to France, there isn't much new in it.Still - it is amusing to read about Paddington preparing a typical French meal for the Browns (snails), Paddington playing the big drum in a band (and getting lost because he can't see the other musicians), Paddington trying to put up a tent and Paddington going to the bank and discovering how little interest you actually get...My favourite small part of the book was a half page or so about Paddington and dictionaries.
Nigdy nie byłam fanką Kubusia Puchatka, a dzięki dzieciom dowiedziałam się, że Miś Paddington także nie znalazł miejsca w moim sercu.
Nie wiem.
Najważniejsze jednak, że synowi książki się podobały i namawiał mnie stale na kontynuację lektury.
Zresztą jak na Paddingtona reagują inni także jest ciekawe - mówiący i żyjący jak człowiek niedźwiedź nikogo nie zaskakuje.
Ma on bowiem tę niezwykłą przypadłość wplątywania się w najgorsze tarapaty.
Wszystko to dzieje się mimochodem i niechcący, a efekt zawsze jest fenomenalny.
Sam Paddington nie wie, jakim cudem udaje mu się ze wszystkich tarapatów wyjść obronną ręką.Ciąg dalszy: https://przeczytalamksiazke.blogspot....
Ikuisena Paddington- fanina tämä upposi jälleen kerran täysillä. Pieni ruttuinen karhu, joka joutuu tuon tuosta ongelmiin vain selvitäkseen niistä kohteliaisuudella ja herttaisuudellaan.Varsin mainiota iltasatulukemista. Ainoastaan Bondin perinteistä englantilaisuuden kuvausta jäin kaipaamaan; Paddington on niin sidottu Lontoon Notting Hilliin, että Ranskassa toikkaroiva karhu vaatii totuttelua.
208 - 2018
Grade: A-
I think Paddington is my soulmate, he like to do lists as well.
Some of the larger cultural events of France are also featured in the book, in particular the world famous "Le Tour de France." Still, even though Paddington was on vacation in another country, I learned new British words as well.
For instance, "roundabouts" are the British word for "merry-go-rounds" and "braces" are the British word for "suspenders." Any object within Paddington's grasp has the potential to cause a comic disturbance and such is the case with the "braces." I'll leave it at that.(It was in this section of the story that I believe I discovered why the Paddington doll from my childhood came with a change of clothes, that included a raincoat, hat and galoshes).There are a great many funny and sweet moments in the book, from the planning and packing to the final moments of the vacation.
Paddington's adventures continue, with one subtle difference.
After three books of Paddington misunderstanding the basic day-to-day life of post-war Britain, most of this book is taken up with the Browns' holiday in France.
For the first time, the child reader misses out on much of the vicarious pleasure of being "ahead" of Paddington, and Michael Bond seems to try and compensate by making his little calamities overly simplistic and even stereotyped.
The best story by far is "A Visit to the Bank," a wholly London-based pile-up comedy of errors in which Paddington empties his savings account only to discover that all his nice polished coinage has been "replaced," and interest on one pound, three shillings and sixpence simply isn't very interesting!
Another collection of the (mis)adventures of Paddington Bear. This time, the running theme of the book is Paddington's first family holiday with the Browns over to France. Needless to say, this gives plenty of opportunity for mishaps and confusion along the way (starting with trouble at the airport with Paddington's passport and ending with Paddington inadvertently winning a stage of the Tour De France - with intervening escapades at the local fete and on a yacht sandwiched in between). As delightful as ever!Onto the next book.....
The Paddington stories are better suited to unrelated anecdotes than to more closely linked collections like this one. Setting it abroad lessens the appeal even more, because the entire point of him is a bear in a strange country, whereas this book takes all of the Browns to a strange country and something is lost in the process. Still, there are worse things for little kids to read!
Such classic books for all ages! I've decided to read more Childrens and YA to find books for my boys to read for homeschooling. This whole series is adorable and the black and white sketches make me want to get all my art supplies out!
We were discussing books to read our 4 yr old at bedtime when my husband discovered I hadn't read any Paddington books. He gave me a very hard stare and sent me straight to his bookshelf. This is 4th in the series and I think it might have been best to start on the 1st one but I still enjoyed it.
While it is true that this is intended for younger audiences I whole heartedly suggest that people revisit these stories for a shot of simplicity and a brief spot of nostalgia!
I loved the Paddington stories as a child, even though, by the time I was introduced to them in the early 1970s, they were probably already a bit out of date.
The normality of the context serves to accentuate the humour and delight of the stories.I first read Paddington Abroad nearly fifty years ago, at a time when I myself had never been abroad.
Now, nearly fifty years later and reading it to my great niece, that enchantment remains intact.
His humour works on to levels, delighting his child readers at the most direct level, but also appeals to parents (and great uncles).
Damals waren eine Reise, ganz besonders eine Flugreise, etwas ganz Besonderes und wahnsinnig teuer, die meisten Menschen zu dieser Zeit hatten ja nichts.
Noch dazu mit einem echten Bären (heute dürfte man so was wahrscheinlich gar nicht mehr schreiben, ohne dass der Tierschutz auf den Plan tritt), der außerdem aus dem fernen Peru kommt.Leider liest sich die Geschichte für mich langweilig, weil die meisten Dinge, die damals als Abenteuer durchgegangen sind (z.B. Reiseplanung erstellen, fliegen, essen) bei uns ganz normaler Alltag geworden sind.Fazit: Ich bin nicht die Zielgruppe.
Цього разу Падінгтон разом з родиною Браунів вирушає до Франції.
Як він збирається, що відбувається в аеропорту і у самій Франції - це цікаво і дуже смішно.
Врешті родина Браунів проводить відпустку в одному французькому маленькому містечку Сан-Кастилі, куди потрапляє абсолютно випадково:) Ні, не випадково - через Падінгтона.
Але пригод у Падінгтона, як у ведмедя, там на диво багато.
Падінгтон всьому щиро дивується і чимало чого робить уперше - наприклад, він вперше летить за кордон, опановує велосипед і грає на барабані:) "Ось чому так добре бути ведмедем, - додала місіс Бьорд.
- Із ведмедем весь час щось трапляється!"
Paddington der kleine Bär geht mit den Browns auf Urlaubsreise, nach Frankreich.
Nein, wie in allen Schlamasseln um Paddington, löst sich auch dieser auf und er kann in Ruhe Frankreich unsicher machen und zahlreiche neue Freunde finden.Ich liebe Paddington Bär einfach und obwohl es ein Kinderbuch ist, habe ich mich kein bisschen gelangweilt.
Nein beim Kapitel, in dem der kleine Bär versucht ein Zelt aufzubauen habe ich sogar Tränen gelacht.
Die Geschichten um Paddington sind kurzweilig, nie belehrend und gehen zu Herzen.
Paddington ist und bleibt Kult.
Für Groß und Klein ist es einfach eine tolle Chance den Alltag hinter sich zu lassen.
Only Paddington can turn the simplest of every day activity into an adventure - things always happen around him but in his words 'Bears always fall on their feet' and so eventually things turn out better than you would expect! Every day brings something new... and anything new ends up as an incredible story to enjoy - a visit to the bank, an attempt to setup a tent, a holiday in France... some incidents are more amusing than others but its easy way to take ur mind off daily chores!
For more reviews, check out my blog: Craft-CycleAnother fantastic Paddington adventure. This is such a fun series. I love reading about all of Paddington's shenanigans. In this book, the Browns go to France and unsurprisingly, things do not go as expected. From rough roads to the Tour de France, Paddington is always sure to delight. A fun story that proves Paddington can make friends anywhere he goes. Very funny and heartwarming. Great read.
Paddington books are always a treat, you treasure them in the moments when you want to return to your childhood or when you just want to elevate your spirits quickly. Paddington Abroad tells us about the adventures of Monseur le Bear in France which are, as always, funny and adorable. Perfect book for a rainy autumn day.
3 bis 3.5 SterneTypisch Paddington verbunden mit einem Urlaub in Frankreich 🐻🥖 Die einzelnen Abenteuer waren definitiv alle sehr amüsant, jedoch fehlte das gewisse Etwas. Vielleicht lag es daran, dass die Browns alle etwas träge drauf waren, da sie im Urlaub sind.Am besten hat mir die Tour de France gefallen, da es mich an meinen eigenen Urlaub in Frankreich erinnert hat.
I was a little distracted when listening to this so may have missed bits. It didn’t feel as good as the others but was still great none the less. Paddington is off to France and as usual with Paddington nothing goes smoothly. I loved his cooking and just adore the love and acceptance that the Browns have for him and how he is. Maybe lessons to be learnt here as well.
This book was all of witty, funny, hilarious and hysterical. Paddington's adventures in France had nothing short of uproarious humour - and yet they all seemed so realistic, as though they could really happen, and weren't thought up by Bond in a silly type of fictional way. I am excited to move onto the next book, Paddington at Large!
My kids enjoyed this a moderate amount, but I am really tired of how formulaic these books are! I'm not telling my kids that the series goes on, hopefully they won't find out ... I should be fair and say there are some delightful moments, I am just Paddington-ed out.
The Brown's are going on holiday and Paddington is planning the trip.Will things go to plan?Never a dull moment where Paddington is concerned.Wonderful stories which are still popular with young readers.I loved it all over again.
Light and delightful. It reminds me very much of Kenneth Graham's earlier works such as "Golden Age" where we see the world through children's eyes. Paddington is the penultimate child -- never meaning harm, but always finding an adventure! Splendid and brilliant!
Adorable as always. The perfect bedtime read even for grown ups.
Cute! and funny
Paddington is so sweet
