https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1250126.The_Town_House
, and offers much insight into the novel, bu I'd recommend it it only to those who've read the book already --otherwise, it will contain a good many "spoilers!")Lofts was a high school history teacher, turned serious and knowledgeable historical novelist, with a profound understanding of both human nature and the forces of changing social history, coupled with enormous literary gifts.
An excellent book, the start of the House trilogy. I had read The House at Old Vine and The House at Sunset so it was good to find the first book of the trilogy. This is early Norah Lofts, printed in 1959, and it contains little gems, mentioning events and characters, that she eventually used in forthcoming books; I always enjoy that type of continuity.
The first book in a trilogy. The story of Martin Reed a blacksmith and runaway serf and how he came into possession of the house at Old Vine. The novel tells of the triumphs and tragedies Martin and of his descendents . Beautifully written by a wonderfully talented storyteller it is a rather sad and poignant story. Filled with wonderful, well rounded characters and attention to detail of the times and way of life during the 1300's.
This is House book #1 for the Norah Lofts series for the "in" town residence that begins with Martin Reed's obtaining land from the Abbey for services rendered in 1381.
The tales are detailed to exact degree and from those eyes alone as the narrator changes in each section.But Martin's thoughts from 10 to 70 years of age; they are never obscured.Real as dirt.
Norman and Saxon and Romany- the house he begins with that Abbey toss away of pox filled ground, it grows.This is a story of an impossible entrepreneur.
This is one of my favorite books. I just finished it for the second time. I am so lucky as I forgot large parts of it so got to enjoy it all over again. I sure feel sad for Nicholas at the end. I don't recall having that feeling before about him. Before I felt she was lucky to escape him. Its strange how impressions can change.
It was a great journey through everyday life of the common people in the first half of XV century.The book had a few narrators and between their tales there were short intervals with a narrator in the third person.
And it was very enriching.When you read you must get out of your own skin and into the skin of the people you are reading about, that is the only way to enjoy it.Like in life, there was sorrow, injustice (view spoiler)[[how went Pert Tom's life after the fire was almost unbearable for my sense of justice] (hide spoiler)], hard work, prejudice, love, hate, dreams, happy and sad days.

This book included The Maude Reed Tale in the latter part of this volume, but the tales were different enough to be quite interesting: I *thought* I knew what was going to happen, but then she whisked the floor out from under me and I was again in unfamiliar territory, wanting to know "what happens next."The characters are complex; although there is still something of a good/bad dichotomy, there is remorse (or not) for past mistakes (you know, like murdering your lover so he won't tell your husband).Maud Reed herself was less 1970s-ish, but still feisty.
My first Norah Lofts, which left me wanting more!
Before there was Pillars of the Earth there was The Town House. Norah Lofts is a forgotten mistress of historical fiction. Compelling, detailed, exciting.
I loved this book and the writing is sublime.
The style of writing is far different from the simplistic style of a lot of - not all - today's historical fiction writers and is a joy to read.The Town House is the first of a trilogy centred around the Vine House starting with Martin Reed telling his story.
I really want to know what happens to them all in the coming years so I have ordered the 2nd and 3rd books in the trilogy.
I would recommend this book to anybody who loves a good story well told.

I loved this book. Had never read Norah Lofts before but will definitely be reading her others.Even though this was written 50 years ago, it has stood the test of time!
3.5 stars
This is the first book in a series by Nora Lofts, about the history of an old house and the different characters who lived there, century after century. I found this book so engaging that I had to read the sequils, The House at Old Vine, and The House at Sunset. Wonderful stories of British history and culture are in this series.
Well-written and meticulously researched, the author paints a vivid picture of what life may have been like for the poorest inhabitants of fourteenth century England. The strange customs, the cruelty and hardships of the time are vividly portrayed, along with the unchanging characteristics of human nature. I found it a very interesting and enjoyable read.
Great book. Reminds me of the pillars of the earth. I now want to read the other two, but it looks like they are not available in kindle edition and the paperbacks are really expensive. Will have to wait.
Fascinating story about a town house from its beginning, why it was built and by who, spanning generations, adding wings. You see the surrounding area change with the values and morals of its inhabitants. It was heart breaking in parts and quite a difficult read at times but I couldn't put it down.
It is about life of many generations of one family with recurrent themes of twists of fate, religion, true vocation/call, guilt, and often violent death.The first book of the trilogy spans from 1380 to 1450s and tells the story of Walter (Martin) Reede, who was a sert and ran away with his bride-to-be Kate to toil away in an imaginary city of Baildon, Suffolk.
While the first part is told by Walter himself, other parts are narrated by different characters, including Old Agnes, his housekeeper, Anne Blanchfleur, his son's wife, Maude Reed, his granddaughter, and Nicholas Freeman, his clerk who wants to marry his granddaughter - Maude Reede - and later becomes a cardinal.
An extremely interesting account of a young, runaway serf and his tragedies and triumphs. The house he builds in the 1400's is viewed through the centuries to modern times, along with the people and events connected with it.
I read this several years ago and I am now re-reading all 3 books in the trilogy. As someone else mentioned in their review, anyone who liked Pillars of the Earth would really enjoy the 3 books in this series, The Town House, The House at Old Vine and The House at Sunset. Very enjoyable!
Wonderful story of life in the 1300's. I have read a few reviews that compare it to The Pillars of the Earth, and don't feel it is quite in the same league....but this is part one of a trilogy, and I feel I need to read the second and third before I can make that assessment.
A neighbor loaned The Town House to my Mom almost 48 years ago. Mom didn't read it, but I did. It's a stellar tale of medieval lives...Still a favorite book.
Medieval English historical novel -- very fun to read because it took place in Bury St. Edmunds, where we lived in England.
Follows a family through 3 generations. Nothing good seems to happen to them!
Exceptional medieval era historical fiction First of a trilogy.
Nora Lofts combines a uncanny ability to describe the subculture and way of life led by the economically marginalized fifty years after The Great Pestilence in then English high Middle Ages.
This, the first, spans 50 years, and one narrator, whose narrative is retrospective, refers to this period as a world undone by the War of the Roses, the rising merchant class, wool trade and waning influence of landed great houses of military nobility.
But each character, whatever their limitations, evolves, they are not the static: caricatures too often found in historical fiction
What a cracking good read [listen] this was.
It's been compared to The Pillars of the Earth, and indeed there are some commonalities, but it's quite a different story.It's a long saga of several generations of a family living in one house.
So yes, it has the immediacy of Pillars of the Earth, the rich characterisation, the exciting pace and the excellent plotting and dialogue.
What's different is that there's nothing epic here, just a tale of a family.
But I'm saving them as a special treat to listen to while lying on a beach this summer.
A great read!Thanks to The Backlisted Podcast if heard about this book - an overlooked classic. Reading it today I'm reminded of Game of Thrones rather than Ivanhoe. Great plotting, a light touch with the historical facts, and engaging characters throughout. Definitely worth a read if you're a fan of historical fiction.
Absolutely wonderful. I've gone ahead and downloaded the remaining two of the trilogy plus a handful of her stand-alone novels. I'm thrilled to have found an author with such skill for weaving a tale.
She is a such good writer! Like Michener, she manages to cover a lot of historic detail and to sketch believable characters to forward the story. This is the first of a series.
