https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7937510-naked-economics
It so happens that currently, having a job is the predominant way many people gain access to food, shelter, and a decent quality of life.
But sometimes - like for many people who work for close to little pay - a job does not in fact help one gain access to this, and instead traps one into a cycle of ever-tightening dependency on your employer while you live an increasingly impoverished and increasingly controlled life.
To maximize his utility!If you like this joke as much as I do, congratulations!
If you don't like the joke, stay away from my parties.
Either way, this book is a very thorough, very clear explanation of a good foundation of economic principles, written with the non-Economists among us in mind.
In what ways are sweatshops good?
These are the kinds of questions Wheelan addresses, but not in a stuffy, boring, academic "here's where the supply curve meets the demand curve" kind of way.
He explains why certain things in the real world work as they do, why others should but don't, and what people and governments can do to address them.
*- لماذا يُعد منح الموظفات إجازات رعاية الطفل أمراً تتضرّر منه الأخريات ؟ لأن أرباب العمل تنموا لديهم نزعة تفرقة ضد المرأة أثناء عمليّة التعيين !*- مُعظم طلاب الجامعة الأكثر نبوغاً ممن لديهم نهم للمعرفة يُعانون أثناء دراستهم لمادة ( اقتصاد ١٠١ ) * - علم الاقتصاد يخبرنا عن مشاكل سياسيّة .* - خلق الاقتصاد الأمريكي ملايين الوظائف الجديدة في العقد الماضي ، كل هذا دون أن تحاول الحكومة تقسيم ساعات العمل على الأفراد !*- معظم الأفكار الاقتصاديّة المهمّة أفكارٌ بدهيّة ، فهي تستمد قوتها من منطقيّتها و قدرتها على استيعاب المشاكل اليوميّة .*- لايتلقى الأفراد فاتورة عن كل مايُسبّبونه من ضررٍ بالبيئة و لكن المجتمع هو الذي يتلقاها في صورة تلوّث للهواء و احتباس حراري و زحف عمراني *- يقدم لنا علم الاقتصاد مجموعة التحليليّة الفعّالة ، التي ليست بالضرورة معقّدة بل يمكن استخدامها لإعادة النظر في الأحداث التاريخيّة * - علم الاقتصاد كمثل الجاذبيّة الأرضيّة تتجاهله و مع ذلك تجد نفسك داخله تواجه بعض المشكلات * - يطرح الاقتصاديّون سؤالاً مجازيّاً : من يُطعم باريس ؟ الغرض منه جذب الانتباه إلى هذا الفيضزمن الأحداث اليوميّة التي تصرف الأذهان عن تقعيل الاقتصاد الحديث .*- إن الاقتصاد هو فن الاستفادة القصوى من الحياة .
وقد هداني الله لهذاالكتاب كمقدمة ومدخل لفهم الإقتصاد (بالإضافة إلى كتب أخرى وفيديوهات) أرجو من الله أن تكون كافية ووافية لمهتم غير متخصص مثلي.
ويعرض الكاتب للمسائل عرض صحفي بارع، فلا ينفك ينقلك من مثال إلى مثال، ومن نموذج توضيحي إلى نموذج حتى تصلك الفكرة التي يناقشها، كما يعتمد على أقوال توضيحية لأبرز مفكري الإقتصاد، بالإضافة إلى استثارة أسئلة شيقة تستفز عقل القاريء لمزيد من التفكر والفهم.
وفي نهاية المطاف تجد أن الإقتصاد ليس شهادة ومهنة، بل هو طريقة لفهم الحياة من خلال طرح أسئلة أشد أعمقا عن الأمور التي تبدو أكثر بداهة.
Less Freakanomics-y (quirky case studies) and more a broad overview of how economics applies to everything in our, well, economy, reading this book was the mental equivalent of cabinet refacing.
From explaining the economic structures of the most basic transaction to those of the financial markets, Wheelan forced me to rack my brain for the left-wing rebuttals to his logical explanations of why trade protectionism is bad, why sweatshops are good (the problem with sweatshops apparently is that there aren't enough of them), and why a growing economic pie really is important to the small slice eaters.
" إن معظم الأفكار المهمة التي يقوم عليها علم الاقتصاد تستتر خلف مجموعة من الأغطية التي تنطوي على كثير من التعقيد، والتي متى أزحناها عنها، نجد هذه الأفكار بدهية في الأصل، وهذا هو المقصود بالاقتصاد عارياً "تسود فكرة عند كثير من القراء أن الاقتصاد علم جاف وكئيب، وقد يكون هذا حقا في كثير من الأحايين. فالكتابات الاقتصادية -غالباً- ما تكون مليئة بالمعادلات الرياضية المعقدة والجداول والرسوم البيانية الغامضة. هذا الكتاب الرائع يحاول تغيير هذه الصورة النمطية للاقتصاد بجعله أكثر تشويقاً وقرباً من حياتنا اليومية.~~~ كتاب أوصي به، وبشدة.
Which was especially odd since the beginning chapters made me realize instantly how politically agnostic the actual science of economics is.
I wish our politicians could digest these on a case-by-case basis, but it seems like our governments are run by warring anti- and pro-market idealogues.
Conversely, Wheelan posits that governments and markets actually need each other to work as efficiently as possible.
But don't get me wrong; Naked Economics is also even-handed in explaining the basic principles of "the dismal science," only broadening its scope to real-world applications about halfway through.
I did have questions after reading the book because I wasn't sure where an economy like Syria fit into his description.
(He's an American economist so I wasn't particularly expecting otherwise.) Private banks have only been legalized in the past couple of years, and though there is a healthy and thriving economy, it does not depend nearly so much on interest rates as the US economy does.
(Syria is undergoing a construction boom fueled primarily by Gulf companies.) I have a laywoman's ideas but I would have liked to hear the opinions of someone with more economic expertise.
The book, however, is limited as it is only good for understanding market based economy.
Apart from such limitations, the book convincingly give arguments for free trade, globalization and market based capitalist system.
The author takes the assumption that everyone starts from zero and develop skills in life which will decide his/her income -countries included- He misses the point that it is about their inheritance advantage too.
If you like to learn about GDP, financial markets, monetary and fiscal policies, human capital etc.
this is a good book to start with.
Scariest book I've read in a while. Econ for people who never took Econ in school, what were we thinking?! A good read for anyone, a must read for young adults. Start investing, kids.
Yes, “trade creates losers,” often permanent losers, but on average, we are all better off, both now and even more so in the long run, and that’s the way it needs to be.This view is subject to a variety of technical criticisms, many centering around the simplifications and assumptions that underlie it, as well as such things as the effect of technology and of diminishing vs.
It revolves around an unaddressed question: what does “better off” mean, given we are told making us collectively “better off” is the role and goal of exalting international free trade above any other interest?Implicit in the orthodox argument Wheelan offers is that any aggregate increase in wealth, measured by GDP, is adequate justification for taking the action that leads to the increase.
علاقتى بعلم الاقتصاد علاقة مرتبكة لا تسير على خط واحد لكن يسودها فى الأغلب علاقة ضجر وجفاء بدأ الأمر فى سنة 2009 كنت وقتها تلميذا فى السنة الجامعية الأولى من كلية التجارة قسم اللغة الانجليزية ...الأستاذ الذى كان يشرح لنا المادة كان عجوزا تخطى السبعين من عمره بمراحل ...بذىء اللسان جدا ..لا يتورع عن السب والشتم أن تجرأ طالب وسأله عن نقطة ما لا يفهمها ..فكان أغلبنا يكتفى بالسكوت...بعد أسابيع انقطعت انا تماما عن حضور هذه المحاضرات الباردة واكتفيت بالعكوف الكامل على الكتاب الذى ندرسه...
"One of the fallacies of poverty is that developing countries are poor because they have rapid population growth.
As a result, one of the most potent weapons for fighting population growth is creating better economic opportunities for women,which starts by educating girls.
Taiwan doubled the number of girls graduating from high school between 1966 and 1975.Meanwhile, the fertility rate dropped by half.
In the developed world, where women have enjoyed an extraordinary range of new economic opportunities for more than a half century, fertility rates have fallen near or below replacement level, which is 2.1 births per woman."
Книжка про те, наскільки економіка пронизує наше життя і про те, що це не завжди про гроші, але також про utility, наше бажання отримати якнайбільше користі. Одна з тез автора, що бажанням utility можна маніпулювати і досягати ефекту швидше, аніж закликаючи людей до праведності. Інша теза - попри загальну нерівність, яка існує/існуватиме, загалом суспільства багатшають і з цього користаємо ми всі, бо рівень комфорту загалом підвищується. Автор наводить десятки прикладів, жартів і маленьких історій, від чого тест дробиться і часом стає важко зрозуміти основну думку, але читається напрочуд легко і цікаво
I'll try to provide a better summary of Wheelan's book than I did four years ago.A market economy is really just a name for the transaction of buying and selling goods and services, and the scarcer the goods and services and the more demand, the more people are willing to pay for them.
Unfortunately, for many workers vis-a-vis the economy, it is difficult for people to find new jobs if they lose old ones because they don't have very much human capital (that is, their experiences and skills just aren't valued economically).There are other important lessons in this book, but if you take away any two, for my money, it'd be the ones above: what a market economy is and what human capital is.
But you also know that, given the choice between plowing your way through the Picketty text and doing most anything else that is even remotely stimulating, reading a 577 page treatise on the finer points of political economy will lose out every time.It is in this sort of everyday occurrence of semi-rational people facing tradeoffs about how to allocate their scarce resources that Wheelan's Naked Economics finds its voice.
The book lucidly describes the key points of neoclassical economic thought in an informative, well-reasoned, and even entertaining way.
No charts, calculus, or arcane math, lots of good examples of problems and issues that we all are affected by but don't have much understanding of.
Things like the Fed, interest rates, trade balances, taxes, etc are covered and made easy to process.
My biggest problem is the lack of discussion of things like outsourcing, debt, and currency issues and how they are actually affecting our economy.
I'd like to see a book that is not so theoretical or hush hush about these kinds of issues.
Aside from that, a good book that will leave you a little smarter then when you began.
If you are interested in learning about economics but find the topic somewhat confusing and boring, this book breaks down the major concepts in a way that makes it interesting and understandable. Wheelan is a witty and sarcastic man which added greatly to his stories and real life examples he used when supporting topics within economics. I am highly interested in developmental economics and his chapter on this topic broke down common misconceptions that people may have about developing countries and why they have problems with their economies.
الكتاب رائع وفكرته جديده وطلبه اقتصاد لو درسوه بجانب التحليل الجزئي والكلي هيحل ليهم مشاكل في الفهم كتيرعيبه من وجهة نظري في 3 حاجاتاولا عنوانه كان المفروض يكون how American economy works.ثانيا عدم اجود اي اطار مفاهبمي للكتابثالثا تبني اراء بل والدفاع المستميت عن مدرسة شيكاغو(اليبراليه الجديدة)
وايضآ لماذا ماكدونالدز من أفضل المطاعم في العالم ويبجيب ببساطة وهي بسبب التواصل بين فروعه وإحكام المعلومات للخاصة بكل واجبة واعتقد انه اخفق في هذه النقطة أو انه يتحدث عن الدول الغربية بشكل عام متناسيآ الشرق وانه يتم الأنتاج به بدرجة أقل كفاءة، فمن الممكن تكون ذات الوجبة علي نفس الدرجة من الكفاءة في الدول الغربية انما للشرق يتم الأنتاج به بمعايير مختلفة تمامآ وأبسط مثال علي ذلك كاتشب هاينز ...يتحدث عن موضوع أخر أكثر أهمية وهو الدعم بشكل عام من خلال خفض الضرائب عن بعض السلع واعطي مثال "الولايات المتحدة الأمريكة" ولماذا يتم دعم بعض المواد ومطالبة تخفيف الدعم عن بعضهم مثل الإيثانول وتأثير أصحاب المصالح علي الكونجرس لأتخاذ بعض القرارات ...
Grabbed this one from a friend, Nate, who kept a hold of it long after his Econ 101 course and, well, I'm glad he did!Wheelan starts of by addressing the fact that many students who are forced to take Econ 101, or even do so by choice, are instantly turned away from the subject by dry texts, boring teachers and a heavy dependence on the mathematical aspects of the science.In Naked Economics, Wheelan promises to not only offer a broad overview of this overlooked science but do so in turn without a single graph, chart, or formula.
قد تكون تلك مزية هذا الكتاب البارزة ، و لكنها في الوقت ذاته عيبه الذي يفضي إلى عدم اكتمال صورة المفاهيم الاقتصادية في ذهن القارئ و التي في كثير من الاحيان تحتاج إلى تفصيل في الشرح و توسع في ذكر الأمثلة المرتبطة بالواقع ليتم استيعابها و هضمها بصورة مرضية.
ما قرأته بين دفتي الكتاب اشبه بدردشة مع استاذ اقتصاد أمريكي ظريف و "مهضوم" -كما يقول الللبنانيون- يحدثني عن الاقتصاد و بعض المفاهيم الرئيسية فيه مع أمثلة من واقع أمريكا و تاريخها و كذلك بعض الحكايا الشخصية عنه و عن عائلته المتصلة بالموضوع .
حتماً ستستفيد و تستمتع ، لكن لا يمكن أن يقول لك كل شيئ في تلك الجلسة.
كتاب اقتصادي لكن بااسلوب بسيط وسلسل..كيف لمدينة مثل شيكاغو أن تجمع بين النقائض في نفس اللحظة التي يش
The book is a great read to anyone who has any remote interest in how the world of economics works.
This is the first economics-related book I read, but it won't be the last.
It shows how economics affects global decisions (and how decisions affect economics) as well as the micro and individual level.I feel so much enriched after reading the book, and I am going to read slightly more advanced economics books (and hopefully I will be armed enough from that book).
You will feel a small light bulb lighting every now and then (especially in the second half where he explains politics + economics)
The title itself of the book is intriguing, but reading the book is funnier than people would think just hearing the word “economics”, because lets face it for some students even professionals the topic economics is boring.
As Book Magazine said “Explains our global economy in a way that is (gasp!) actually entertaining.”, with that kind of review who in their right mind would not be allured in reading this book.
Read this book and you'll know not just the naked truth about economics but also the reason for the peculiar but amusing name of the book.
This is a fantastic economic primer which skillfully introduces the reader to the most important economic concepts in a humorous and mostly detached manner. There are of course some minor things that I would take issue with, especially some simplified categorizations - but I trust that Wheelan is quite aware of this and has not done this in order to shoehorn any of his own ideas, but rather to make life simpler for the reader. I'm now working my way through more complex books on economics, which I wouldn't be able to had I not read this book first.
For a book on economics I found this hilarious. It wasn't hilarious in the sense that he didn't know what he was talking about but hilarious in that he made writing about economics funny--his writing style is the key. He is very knowledgeable about his topic and I found myself thoroughly enjoying it because he didn't bore you. His writing was engaging, humorous, thorougly researched, instructive, and knowledgeable. If you want to learn more about economics I suggest this book.
بسبب طبيعة عملي، قرأتُ كثيراً في علم الإقتصاد وفي الحقيقة لم أجد كتاباً ببساطة ومتعة وخفة هذا الكتاب. هو جميل لدرجة أنك قد تقرأه من أجل المتعة وحسب. هو ليس كتاباً شاملاً في الإقتصاد إنما يقدّم مجموعة من الأمثلة الإقتصادية في سلوك السوق.. وكيفية سير الأمور مع سياسة الإقتصاد المفتوح. هو بحق كتاب لطيف. أحب تلك النوعية من الكتب التي تقدّم لك المعلومة بحس لا بأس به من الفكاهة..
I would like to thank my AP Economics teacher for recommending such a piece of shit :) It was a time well spent!
The part I did not really understand was economic policy.
Before this book I only knew what politicians expounded upon around election season (typically a promise to lower taxes and a hint their opponents would raise them).
Too often our individual resourcefulness and talents are not the subject of political debate.
That’s more than I can say for any political speech I’ve seen recently.
If you want to understand economic policy in the US, or an overview of capitalism, this book will serve you well.
If you are wanting to understand economic systems (like communism and socialism) look elsewhere.
