https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/211589.A_Dictionary_of_Symbols
Okay, I didn't read it word for word, but I did go through the whole book. Yes, you can get a lot of this type of information online but it's handy to have it in book format both to flick through for inspiration and to do a quick check on particular words. I've used it as inspiration both for creative writing and for naming a company. It's not a bad idea to make sure your chosen name doesn't mean death or the root of all evil ;-)

W codziennym życiu zaś kategorie symboliczne przestają być adekwatne, bo niezależnie od tego, w jaki sposób zinterpretuję mały, porcelanowy kubek, ostatecznie i tak napiję się z niego herbaty."Błędem artysty, czy literata-symbolisty było właśnie pragnienie przekształcenia całej sfery rzeczywistości w ciąg niepochwytnych korespondencji, w zespół obsesyjnych analogii; nie rozumieli oni, że sfera symboliczna przeciwstawia się sferze egzystencjalnej i że jej prawa ważne są tylko we właściwym dla niej środowisku.[…]Wracając do kwestii wyodrębnienia zakresu symbolu, i gwoli dokładniejszego określenia celu tej pracy odwołamy się do przykładu fasady klasztoru, w której dostrzec możemy: a) piękno całości, b) technikę wykonania całej konstrukcji i c) styl, który reprezentuje, wraz z jego implikacjami historycznymi i geograficznymi, d) mniej lub bardziej wyraźne wartości kulturowe i religijne itd., ale również x) symboliczny sens form.
W żadnym z haseł, pewnie z racji ich długości, nie jest to tak uderzające, jak tu.Słownik symboli od lat pozostaje jedną z najpopularniejszych pozycji w swojej kategorii, wersja portugalska doczekała się aż dziesięciu edycji.
hope to read more in depth some day
A Dictionary of Symbols (Hardcover) by Juan Eduardo Cirlot Dust Jacket in rough condition.Jungian symbolism relates to the human experience of sexuality in both mind and body. Has a bibliography & index.
This book discusses the particular symbols and ideas related to those symbols popular in everyday culture.
Sometimes the entries are really short when you expect them to be pretty long.
It covers all of the Tarot Cards, all weapons that I could think of, and all animals of any symbolic significance.
So this book is pretty cool if you like symbols, and it has a bibliography that you can use to further your research.
I read the whole thing through, but you might just want to find a particular entry.
Either way, this book was enjoyable and quite fascinating.
An unapologetically Jungian-inspired dictionary of symbols. In limited space, covers a number of cultural manifestations of each symbol, with a latent argument for some sort of generalizable meaning. Well-written with interesting art pieces. Particularly helpful for those interested in mythology or the archetypal quality of dreams.
Most books are rated related to their usefulness and contributions to my research.Overall, a good book for the researcher and enthusiast.Read for personal research- found this book's contents helpful and inspiring - number rating relates to the book's contribution to my needs.
This is an awesome book. It's a part of the 25+ books i recieved for Christmas. It provides the knowledge which would enable someone to read pretty much anything. i don't understand why ben gates and riley didn't just buy this book instead of going to ben's mom.
Rather boring.***********And I just read some other reviews of this book. I read this in the 90's and apparently, I'm just not feeling the love. Maybe this wasn't the right book at the right time.I still own it, may have to revisit it.
Good basic reference for a "collective unconscious" version of symbolism. Can be applied toward art, literature, dreams and anything else that hits your radar. Good for reading more into children's and outsider art than probably necessary. Also fun just to open anywhere and read.
One of my all time favorite reference books -- full of underlining, highlighting, and ancient, curled, annotated Post-It notes. I went to this book yesterday and realized I should add it to my library.
Completo diccionario de símbolos con dibujitos, palabrejos, teorías locolotas y más.
Pun - Schneider "to create a poetic pun is to jump over or annihilate the distance between two logical or spatial elements - to place under one yoke two elements which are naturally discrete.:
I remember loving this book in high school, when I was in my 'read-every-reference-book-in-the-library-on-myth-and-cosmogony' phase...which lasted for at least a few years.
The book only covers a broad and generalized set of symbols but should be sufficient for casual interest. Each entry is well treated and the book, in general, is well written. A gem to have.
A fantastic overview of the meaning behind symbols and their meanings.
I love books on symbols and so far, this one is my favorite.
Endlessly fascinating. Kind of a bible for me.
