https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/100322.Assata
For the first part of the book, the main emotion was disgust and shock, firstly at the police brutality Assata experienced (it was very hard to read some of the graphic scenes) , and also at the American judicial system which was clearly racist.
I guess the reasons why she didn’t are obvious but a quick google search told me how it was achieved so it’s not exactly top-secret.I feel regardless of whether one feels Assata was guilty or innocent (personally, I don’t understand why she was put on the FBI list after 40 years), everyone should read this book.
i believe in living.By Assata Shakuri believe in living.i believe in the spectrumof Beta days and Ga
While I read The Autobiography of Malcolm X, there is a difference between reading the words of a dead man and those of a living woman both on socially constructed and biologically factual constructed grounds.
Her being a black woman also worked in more implicit ways by deconstructing the cult of masculinity often coupled to civil rights movements.
Another favorite was her decrying of social justice people "fixing" things for others, when the right way of supporting those in different situations is to be receptive to their ideas, have faith in their abilities, and offer aid only when asked.
The story of how the hell this outrage came about and above all persists is necessary because it outlines so lucidly how the white supremacist capitalist state actively opposes the struggles for liberation and justice and simply peaceful survival of African American people at all costs, whatever politicians say.Aside from what the trial demonstrates though, Assata's story is precious to me because she's an extraordinary woman, so intelligent, clear sighted and candid, and such a fine raconteur, alternating chapters on her intriguing early life with the horrific account of her incarceration so that I was constantly perched on the edge of my seat.
That explained why jails and prisons all over the country are filled to the brim with Black and Third World people, why so many Black people can't find a job on the streets and are forced to survive the best way they know how.
If it isn't growing, it's stagnant, and without the support of the people, no movement for liberation can exist, no matter how correct its analysis of the situation is.
Although the two must work together, they must have completely separate structures, and any links between the two must remain secret.p.242To win any struggle for liberation, you have to have the way as well as the will, an overall ideology and strategy that stem from a scientific analysis of history and present conditions...
What was most striking to me about the autobiography was the vicious police brutality and the blatant disregard for due process of law, her civil rights, and what constitutes cruel and unusual punishment.
The book came across as particularly prescient in the age of government overreach and "oversight", the #metoo movement, the civil rights and lack their of for certain people, voter supression and it roll in the perversion of the criminal justice system and the violent spread of capitalism and it's conflation with democracy.
Throughout the book we can see that Shakur has huge issues with the US form of government.
I sure took my time reading this.
I feel she wanted to matter.
I feel that she wanted recognition even more than Black liberation but that's just my opinion.
And a 274-pages read doesn't really give me the right to such an opinion.
I find it hard to believe that either she was guiltless or the Black liberation Army was guiltless.
Even if she was innocent of most of what she had been accused, I find it very hard to believe she was spotless.
Yet, I am not entirely sure I would agree with all of Assata's views and ideologies.
In these chapters, I felt a strong urge to question the validity of certain events based on how Assata wrote them using such a blasé tone about different events like, how she frequently ran away from home and lived on her own for long periods of time as a child.
Looking at other people's interpretation of Assata's autobiography, I would speculate that the habit of misspelling America's name was meant to show disrespect or hatred for America however, I'm still unsure of the actual meaning behind this.Overall, I felt dissatisfied with this book.
it is the autobiography of assata shakur, who was in the black panther party & eventually arrested, charged with murder.
this book covers her childhood, growing up female & black, becoming aware of racism & sexism, & the strong female role models she had in her life in the form of her mother & her aunt (who went on to be assata's lawyer during her black panther days).
she writes about joining the black panther party & daily life within the party, including some of the stuff she didn't like.
she writes about her trial, getting pregnant, being pregnant & giving birth in jail, etc.
It's bigger than that.A great companion is Inadmissible Evidence: The Story of the African-American Trial Lawyer Who Defended the Black Liberation Army by Evelyn Williams, while Assata's later escape from prison (masterminded by elements of the Revolutionary Armed Task Force) is partially documented in Big Dance: The Untold Story of Weather-Man Kathy Boudin and the Terrorist Family That Committed the Brinks Robbery Murders by John Castellucci.

By chance I read this autobiography of one of America's most notorious black nationalists, Assata Shakur, during a trying and exasperating time, taking the events in Ferguson, New York, and around the nation into consideration and as victims of police brutality are coming forward to protest.
After reading about the hardships and outright racism Shakur faced during her years in limbo in America's worst prisons and suffering sham trials, I understood more about the background of the protests, the black liberation movement, the Black Panthers, and the American court system in the 1970s.
Her anger remains palpable, and it’s hard not to share that anger while reading her story.
Yes, this is her version of events, so it’s necessarily going to be sympathetic; however, the inconsistent testimony of witnesses and the large amount of forensic evidence do seem to support her story, and her description of the cultural and historical context is accurate.
One wonders about her life since this book was published, and why she still remains a political target.
Something like 6 times (before she was found guilty in a kangaroo kourt) she had been acquitted, and had cases thrown out - because the fake story they cooked up was too stupid for any jury to fall for - even the racist, all white ones.
But with those small “victories” went prime years of life - years she should have spent traveling, laughing, teaching, making love, talking strategy & politics, dancing, feeding children breakfast, fighting for freedom for her people.
Now living in Cuba - a place i love, and have spent months in & know i would have a very difficult time living in.
What followed was a witch-hunt the likes of which I have not heard of which went on for years.
She was linked and accused of lots of completely random and unrelated events such as bank robbery and murder and cleared of all of those but the process took years and she was in and out of prison.
One of her speeches in court starts off as “my name is Assata Shakur and I am a revolutionary.
A black revolutionary.
By that I mean that I have declared war on all forces that have raped our women, castrated our men and kept our babies empty bellied” (wow).
I love Assata's spirit and mind. This was a wonderful read. I would love to have a conversation with her over dinner.
As just one example, her name was stuck under a photo of a bank robber that wasn't her, and posted in every newspaper, underground station, police station and even on buses.This book is essential reading for those that don't understand how the US justice system conspires against Afro-Americans, Native Americans, Chicanos and the poor in general.
Each one was more absurd than the last and despite the odds being stacked against her, she was acquitted each time, until the trial for the murder of a state trooper on the New Jersey turnpike.
But this was my first time hearing of her and I am so glad I read this book.
I would have loved to find out how she escaped prison and ended up in Cuba but I completely understand why she would not include that in the book.In my opinion, this book should be on the required reading list for high school students to help them understand the history of the Black Panther Party as well as giving them more to the Civil Rights struggle than Martin Luther King.
Stirring, stylish, and engagingly frank portrait of Assata Shakur that details her early life and the period after her arrest and scandalous trials by the government. A story that is sadly as timely as ever.
I am ASSATA & ASSATA, is meeeee!!!
First, when she didn’t confirm her birthday, lol I knew that we were kindred hearts!!!
I loved this autobiography from start to finish 💚.
I loved that she always stood up for herself even when death was eminent.
The life is a showing of how much black women are hated, mistreated and above all disrespected!
I am SO happy that she now lives in Cuba, happy and liberated...
I can’t wait to visit the island nation all in all, five stars for this brilliant book; ASSATA IS ME & I AM ASSATA!!
-A Splendid Life
I do not know what Shakur's contribution to the Black Panther Party (BPP) was nor do I fully understand her contribution to the Black Liberation Army.
Readers see Shakur chasing something, a home perhaps, throughout the memoir and by page 274 (the end of the book), I'm not certain she has even found it.The autobiography was very slow to start, you have to read well over 100 pages before Shakur even begins to describe the influence of the BPP on her life.
How she gets to Cuba is information Shakur omits (of course, what has she told us in this autobiography?
Along with her general writing, it's also her poetry that lights up the darkness inside."Rhinocerous woman who nobody wantsand everybody used.They say you're crazycause you not crazy enoughto kneel when told to kneel.Hey, big woman -with scars on the headand scars on the heartthat never seem to heal -I saw your lightand it was shining.You gave them love.They gave you shit.You gave them you.they gave you hollywood.They purr at youcause you know how to roar and back it up with realness.Rhinocerous woman, big momma in a little world.You closed your eyes and neon spun inside your headcause it was dark outside.
Although it deals with the Black Power movement in the 1970s and 1980s, it is painfully relevant to current debates over government control such as the Patriot Act. Assata Shakur was wrongfully imprisoned as part of the FBI and US government attacks on the political organizations of people of color.
Instead she reveals the contradictions inherent in many revolutionary movements and makes it clear that she was often confused or lost in her political journey.
This made me want to read much more about Cuban history.

One of the most honest and touching autobiographies I have read. You can't help but love Assata and the way she easily talks about how she feels and what she went through. Again it's shocking what the Black Liberation Army and Black Panthers went through, a history that a lot of Americans don't even seem to be aware of. The Communists and the Black Panthers, probably the two biggest threats the U.S. faced last century judging from the way they were brutally decimated.
Great read.this was one of the books that I wanted to read and kept putting it off for years. I loved how Assata spoke of her personal life and makes the reader understand why she feels the way she does about humanity. the struggles that she speaks of 20 years ago is so relevant right now and it's very sad that after all these years we have not made much progress as a society. this book left me speechless.
This book was absolutely life changing. I read it a few years ago and it was the first step I took in a complete transformation in the way I saw and respected black womanhood. I learned a lot about myself, my people, and my country through her personal experience that she shared with us. I will forever love and return to this book. Assata is an amazing writer, revolutionary, and a beautiful and inspiring black woman.
Must read for any revolutionary. Very down-to-earth, very honest, very informative. All the things I ever look for in a book. Should be on everyone's top 10. Loved it! Learned so much!
So hard to rate...more here later
All the reader gets is Assata in prison claiming it’s time to leave and then her in Cuba five years after her escape when she finally feels it’s safe to call her family.On the other hand, each time she is tried in court, the defense sound like so much evidence was corrupted by police to make Assata sound guilty.
Further evidence of Assata’s innocence (which suggests she’s trustworthy in her narrative) is she was in court ten times over seven criminal charges, and only once was found guilty.Jumping back to her time as a college student, I was happy to see Assata shine truth and bring criticism to the Black Panther Party.
