https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140730.Red_Lights
Red Lights by Belgian author Georges Simenon takes place in 1950s America, where nearly everyone drives a car and the highways are jam packed.
“What got on his nerves was the incessant hum of wheels on either side of him, the headlights rushing to meet him every hundred yards, and also the sensation of being caught in a tide, with no way of escaping either to right or to left, or even of driving more slowly, because his mirror showed a triple string of lights following bumper-to-bumper behind him.”Red Lights is vintage Simenon, a psychological study of a man pushed beyond his normal limits and conventional day-to-day routine, the type of non-Inspector Maigret novel the author himself termed romans durs or “hard novel,” as in hard on both his characters within the novel and readers of the novel.
On a bender now, Steve makes a friend: Sid Halligan, an escapee from Sing Sing.
Steve tells Sid all about Nancy.
Most men are scared, Steve thinks, but not Sid. The next day, Steve wakes up on the side of the road.
His car has a flat, his money is gone, and there’s one more thing still left for him to learn about Nancy, Sid Halligan, and himself.My Review: Norman Denny's translations are the kind of jobs I and my bookish kin adore when we find them: transparent.
Short,amusing, solidly built...the kind of book I eat like olives.
If you’ve ever driven north along I-95 through Connecticut you’ll recognize it here immediately:”The road was wide, smooth, splendid, built as though for the triumph of an emperor, with its white lines defining three lanes of traffic in either direction, pinewoods extending on either side as far as the eye could see, and the blue sky becoming mother-of-pearl over to the right, where perhaps, not very far away, the white fringe of the sea rolled up onto the beach.”That particular strip of interstate highway still looks like that today, pinewoods and all.
It’s spoken through his protagonist here, but it seems it to be a consistent theme for Simenon.”This was the way he had always imagined a dialogue between two men, real men, coming together on the highways.
Dated.
As in, everybody smokes.
Rye whiskey; make it a double.
When it's warm, you drive with the windows open even if it's pouring rain.
The rapist is brought to the hospital, in handcuffs, and shown to the victim so she can identify him; when he leaves, the news photographers are brought in to take photos of her.
As the lieutenant warned her, "It's never a good idea to get on the wrong side of the Press." Dated.
As in little colored boys are trotted out like so many background silhouettes.Dated.
Depth would suffice.
But there's no more depth than there is air-conditioning.There are eleven (at last count) 'novels' by Simenon in the NYRB catalog.
A typical middle class couple, Steve and Nancy, meet at a Long Island bar for a drink, before heading up to Maine -- it's Labor Day weekend, and the traffic sucks -- to pick up their two kids at summer camp.
(I was bit surprised at the number even in the 1950s.) That fact, along with overall 1950s regimentation of American life, is obviously what Simenon is taking aim at.
The stress is out there, and Steve sees the need to pull over for another drink.
In fact, everything you need to know about Steve is contained in the first short paragraph of the novel.
Το "Κόκκινα φώτα", το τέταρτο βιβλίο του Ζορζ Σιμενόν που διαβάζω, ανήκει στην κατηγορία των κοινωνικών και "σκληρών" αστυνομικών μυθιστορημάτων του συγγραφέα, όπου πρωταγωνιστές είναι άνθρωποι της διπλανής μας πόρτας, με τα προβλήματα και τις ανάγκες τους, που μπλέκονται σε διάφορες δύσκολες και περίεργες καταστάσεις.
Ο Σιμενόν είναι γνωστός για την δημιουργία του Επιθεωρητή Μαιγκρέ, όμως κάτι τέτοια βιβλία είναι που τον κάνουν μεγάλο λογοτεχνικό όνομα και εκτός του αστυνομικού είδους.Δεκαετία του '50, στις Ηνωμένες Πολιτείες, βρισκόμαστε στο τελευταίο Σαββατοκύριακο του καλοκαιριού.
Ο Στιβ και η Νάνσι, αντρόγυνο από την Νέα Υόρκη, ξεκινούν με το αυτοκίνητο για να πάρουν τα δυο τους παιδιά από μια κατασκήνωση στο Μέιν.
As she blames herself, who's really responsible?
Her for leaving him as he enters 'the tunnel', a non-forgiving, non-caring, one-sided affair or him for taking their lives for granted?
Not expecting a resurgence of undoubted emotion and panic once she's gone?The story begins with a couple going to pick up their two children from a summer camp in Maine from New York City, but what happens during the trip will affect these two parents who have forgotten how to love one another.An underlying story of selfishness and forgiving within a mystery, Simenon shows why he's not only a writer of Maigret; expounding on the human psyche in an emotional, yet straight-forward way.

Noir dall’atmosfera interessante, Luci nella Notte, racconta la vicenda di una coppia tra le autostrade americane. Tutto avviene in una notte, le maschere dei due protagonisti si alzeranno fino ad arrivare al climax finale che funge da fulcro di “redenzione”.Per quanto il libro sia molto scorrevole e magnetico mi aspettavo qualcosa in più, ho trovato il finale semplicistico sopratutto per quel che riguarda la reazione della moglie, ma entrambi cambiano repentinamente senza delle vere ragioni profonde, non mi ha convinta fino in fondo.

Until reading The Man Who Wasn't Maigret yesterday I had never really felt any urge to read a Simenon that wasn't a Maigret but the amount of praise heaped upon his roman dur oeuvre and collected in his biography I knew this would be the next thing I read.A dark noir-like tale of one mans weaknesses and the unravelling of a life over one reckless night reminding me of both David Goodis (a recent discovery of mine) and the characters contained within Men Without Women.
The theme of losing your mind and the discovery of yourself on the highways of America is obviously a strong and overly used one but in Red Lights Simenon manages to achieve something that is slight in mass but even more powerful for it.
E tu non hai mai letto Simenon»«Io sono una donna.
Steve, il protagonista di Luci nella notte, ti condurrà verso un tunnel che non vuoi percorrere.
In questo libro, ti ritroverai nella stessa macchina in cui Steve e Nancy litigano, in cui Steve cerca di impartire alla moglie una lezione di umiltà, perché lei è un po’ la signorina perfettina, che non esce mai dai binari e segue sempre lo stesso percorso, come un treno che vuole raggiungere l’infinito soltanto lungo una linea perfettamente dritta.
Credo che questo romanzo non me lo toglierò mai più dalla testa.http://lavyrtuosa.com/2012/08/luci-ne...
(I would have just called it noir, but what do I know?) According to Anita Brookner's introduction to RED LIGHTS, Simenon's romans durs followed a simple formula: "A life will go wrong, usually because of an element in the protagonist's make-up which impels him to self-destruct, to willfully seek disgrace, exclusion, ruin in his search for a fulfillment and a fatal freedom which take on an aura of destiny."Pretty highfalutin words, huh?
And the more pissed Nancy gets, the more Steve tries to assert himself--by drinking (what else?).At some point, Steve does something he calls "going into the tunnel"--sort of like heading down a dark road that you know is the wrong way, but you can't turn back.Eventually, Nancy gets so angry when Steve stops to drink, she just leaves while he's in the bar.
Capiamo solo quando è troppo tardi.
Quando siamo felici non ci facciamo caso.”Quando sono soli non si parlano e riempiono i vuoti accendendo la radio oppure si mettono a sfogliare le riviste.
Non si capiscono, viaggiano su strade differenti.
Lui invece le vuole le svolte, i cedimenti , le sbandate e allora beve, e quando è un po’ alticcio riesce anche a dirglielo in faccia quello che pensa di lei.
Ma quel giorno, durante quel viaggio succede qualcosa e tutto assume una prospettiva diversa.
Ora si capiscono e possono anche provare ad iniziare una nuova vita insieme.
I liked it a lot.
It's worth noting that even though it's set in the USA, against the background of a Labour Day weekend and a jailbreak from Sing Sing, this exotic (to a non-American) setting contains another foray into the quotidian and the deviance that lies beneath its surface in the shadowy realm of people's psyches, very much in the spirit of the Maigret novels.
However, without having to churn out and resolve a mystery, Simenon instead charts one man's journey 'into the tunnel' of his own dark side, and the horrific incidents that lead to him somehow redeeming himself in a symbolic manner and beginning a new life.
It's very taut, minutely observed and atmospheric (I almost felt whoozy myself after reading about Hogan's bender) and completely compelling.
Nella copertina si dice che Simenon qui rivisita il Noir.
A mio modesto avviso in realtà si rivisita la Tragedia.
Con una avvertenza: la "catarsi" per Simenon non contempla necessariamente il totale sacrificio e la simpatia che S.
in numerosi romanzi prova per le coppie oneste che traggono forza l'uno dall'altro, è la chiave del romanzo.
Lei e lui andranno a prendere i figli di ritorno dalle ferie.
Lui è pieno di ciarpame che tenta di sciacquare via col rye.
Lei è una donna brillante, desiderabile, ragionevole e organizzata (una di quelle cui detesteresti dare ragione perché ce l'hanno...) Il loro litigio prevedibile verrà interrotto dall'imprevisto.
Read this in its entirety on a plane ride, claustrophobic as hell. Pissed me off at the end where the wife's being raped draws her and her wayward husband into some schadenfreude reconciliation/ renewal of their vows. There's kind of a big difference between going on a bender, and getting the shit kicked out of you and raped on the side of the highway. Marriage in the 1950's probably worked so well because of the aforementioned insistence on "finding common ground."
A holiday weekend, the open road, an alcoholic misfit . . . That most American of genres -- the "noir" fiction set on the open road -- is here done to perfection by master suspense writer George Simenon. Most people who pick up this short (144 pp.) gem about a hapless New York couple enroute to their child's camp in Maine find that they like it very much.
Wow. Be careful what you wish for, you just might get it.In a brief book that will weld itself to your hands until you finish it, Simenon nails a large bunch of issues from power in marriage, masculinity, views on men and women, as well as the "romance" of th American drive.

Georges Simenon.
***.This was a nice re-release of one of Simenon’s psychological novels.
Simenon wrote scads of these ‘serious’ novels, many of them excellent.
This one, though head and shoulders above its competition at the time, was sort of a sleeper.
It was kind of a sleeper.
So…even though this edition came out as a slick version with a nice cover, and an introduction by Anita Bruckner, it was still a re-telling of “The Emperor’s New Clothes.” Don’t be discouraged by this particular novel; instead, go out and look for more choices from the author’s works.
Not Simenon’s strongest noir novel, however, a compelling one nonetheless.
It would also be interesting to compare Simenon’s take on this subject to another American writer of the same time period.The novel's plot centers around one main conflict- the power struggle between the main character, Steve, and his wife, Nancy.
Interesting, considering this was published in 1953 and is prescient of rise of women’s roles in the workplace and the shifting balance of power within marriage relationships.Simenon also captures another American pastime, driving.
Steve’s increasing drunken driving doesn’t reduce the peril.
4.5 StarsWhat prompts a seemingly ordinary conventional man to embark upon a path of self-destruction, to the exclusion of those closest to him, until his actions end in near-inevitable catastrophe?
This is the theme Simenon mines in his 1955 novella Red Lights.
Like Three Bedrooms in Manhattan and The Widow (which I read last year), Red Lights is another of this author’s romans durs, the ‘hard’ novels of which he was particularly proud.
It is a tight, claustrophobic read, one that would suit lovers of vintage noir or crime fiction with a strong psychological edge.To read my review, please click here:https://jacquiwine.wordpress.com/2017...
İntikam aldığını bilmeden intikam alan katilin katilinin öyküsü…
Red Lights, based on a novel by Georges SimenonA different version of this note and thoughts on other books are available at:- https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list... and http://realini.blogspot.ro/Red Lights is a remarkable film.Even if not much remarked upon.It was nominated for only two prizes I mean:- The Golden Bear at the Berlin International Film Festival- And Best Foreign Film at the Film Independent Spirits FestivalOn the other hand, some critics have appreciated this lovely offering.J

Georges Simenon takes us through just such an experience in this novel as we join Steve Hogan as he begins an unexceptional Labor Day weekend sharing a drink with his wife before they head north to Maine to retrieve their two children from Summer Camp.
Simenon succeeds in creating a seemingly mundane life for Steve and that makes the suspense which builds throughout the story even more effective.The power of the novel comes from this suspense and from the psychological portrait of solitude and alienation that is slowly created moment by moment as Steve struggles, yet continually slips inexorably into danger and out of control.
Al mondo, alla moglie che ha sempre ragione, alla coda in autostrada.Svolta e finisce a sbattere, in quella che somiglia tanto alla (solita) sterile ribellione di un borghese piccolo piccolo, che picchia la testa contro sbarre fin troppo solide per essere quelle di una gabbia immaginaria.Il racconto è scritto secco secco, perchè "le uniche risposte vere sono quelle brevi"Insolitamente debole il personaggio femminile, forse perchè il misogino Simenon non si trovava molto a suo agio con le emancipate donne newyorkesi.Il lirismo è affidato alle chiacchiere ubriache del protagonista e al finale, intenso ma decisamente troppo semplice.
En route to fetch his spawn from a summer at camp, he obstinantly turns to drink even though the roads are a wreck.
Dismayed, his wife storms off without him to teach him a lesson.
He also, amusingly, wants to process Manhood and Maleness ad nauseum with the criminal, who is clearly disenchanted with the protagonist.
All the while, his wife meets her own worse fate.
Also of interest is the treatment of compulsion here--the protagonist's compulsion to drink, the criminal's compulsion to assault.
The boomerang shape of the plot returns Steve Hogan, a dazed Odysseus, to his wife and to sobriety. But the bend of the boomerang is the sharp angle where apparent freedom and crumpling nihilism meet. Simenon writes in the book's best passages with an enthralling attention to the uncomfortable detail and to the atonal undercurrents running beneath the thoughts of a character who mistakenly thinks himself sane.
Non è che ci sia molto da dire.Questo romanzo sfiora a larghi tratti la perfezione.Sembra un Revolutionary Road ante litteram, e fa specie considerare che questa lucida scheggia di vita di una giovane coppia negli anni cinquanta d'america l'abbia scritta un belga.
