https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2247142.The_Talented_Mr_Ripley
Marge (soliloquy) : Dick is just the handsomest American 25 year old trust fund baby in all of Italy.
Tom (soliloquy) :Dick is just the handsomest American 25 year old trust fund baby ever.
The character of Tom Ripley is also self-loathing, another closeted-gay cliche.
Leaving the iffiness of this novel aside, it then suffers from the same thing as all other thrillers and crime novels - we are expecting murders, there's no suspense involved, one's only surprise is that Tom Ripley brains so few people.
Il fatto è che Tom probabilmente preferisce la castità a una vita sessuale intensa, preferisce la fedeltà alla bigamia, vive di passioni, più che di pulsioni, più attratto dall’arte che dal corpo umano.Non sorprende che Tom rimanga giovane nonostante gli anni passino, è una caratteristica della maggior parte degli eroi letterari, hanno un processo d’invecchiamento molto più rallentato rispetto al lettore.”The Talend Mr Ripley-Il talento di Mr Ripley” di Anthony Minghella, 1999.
Anticipation!
It occurred to him that his anticipation was more pleasant to him than the experiencing.” ― Patricia Highsmith, The Talented Mr. RipleyHighsmith is amazing.
Face it, pretenders, 'The Talented Mr. Ripley' is an amazing psychological crime novel.
The novel is high-wire, high-risk, high-reward masterpiece.
It leaves me amazed the Cure didn't just write their existential anthem to Highsmith:I can turn And swim awayOr I can raise up my oar Staring at a boatStaring far ashoreWhichever I choseIt amounts to the sameAbsolutely nothing.I'm aliveI'm deadI'm lying Tom RipleyKilling a Signor.
When Tom Ripley is offered a handsome reward to go to Italy to retrieve Dickie Greenleaf, he accepts and soon finds himself living the good life in Naples with Dickie.
An obsession blooms and Tom finds himself wanting to be Dickie Greenleaf.
Anyway, I knew Highsmith wrote Strangers on a Train so I decided to take a crack at it.The Talented Mr. Ripley is a tale of obsession, murder, lying, betrayal, and more lying.
Highsmith reads like a mannerly Jim Thompson, especially once things start going off the rails.
Since there are more of these books, I'm guessing he continues his lying murdering impersonating ways.The book is mostly the Tom Ripley show.
Murder mysteries are not my cup of tea, and while the setting was delightful in its foreignness and experiencing the story from the culpable person's viewpoint was interesting in itself, these aspects would not have balanced out my lack of interest in the details of the plot.
Did he actually believe that he was a different person at the time of the crime, and that both identity and its guilt are determined by a state of mind rather than physical form?
Not only had I done away with feelings of guilt, I had done it in such a way that I will never be convicted of a crime, because unlike Tom and his appropriated Dickey identity, all of this happened in my head.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/3.5 Stars I came upon a little list recently called “17 Books for People Who Hate People” and I immediately thought, “hey, that’s me!” Mitchell concurred. I ended up with a super stinker as my first selection, but luckily I fared better with The Talented Mr. Ripley.I knew the premise of this book to be Tom Ripley, an acquaintance of Dickie Greenleaf, is asked by Dickie’s father to go to Italy and attempt to convince Dickie to return to
There are a few “lost in translation” moments when dealing with things like money and the idea that a couple grand is a giant bankroll that will float you through Europe almost indefinitely, as well as the use of outdated lingo such as “sissy” or “pansy” used to describe Tom. Speaking of, I’m sure some might take offense to whether or not Tom was attracted to Dickie sexually being used as kind of a giant pink elephant in the room throughout the story, but I thought it worked well as a diversionary tactic.
495. The Talented Mr. Ripley, Patricia Highsmith (1921 - 1994)The Talented Mr. Ripley is a 1955 psychological thriller novel by Patricia Highsmith. This novel introduced the character of Tom Ripley, who returns in four subsequent novels known collectively as the Ripliad. It has been adapted numerous times for film, including the 1999 film of the same name.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 2001 میلادیعنوان: معمای آقای ریپلی، نویسنده: پاتریشیا های اسمیت؛ مترجم: فرزانه طاهری؛ تهران، طرح نو، 1379؛ در 286 ص؛ ش
It has been adapted numerous times for film, including the 1999 film of the same name.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 2001 میلادیعنوان: معمای آقای ریپلی، نویسنده: پاتریشیا های اسمیت؛ مترجم: فرزانه طاهری؛ تهران، طرح نو، 1379؛ در 286 ص؛ شابک: 9647134134؛ چاپ دوم 1389؛ شابک: 9789647134132؛ داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 مهنر «پاتریشیا های اسمیت»، طرح شخصیت سازی، و سبک را، با مهارت تمام، در هم میآمیزد، و داستان جنایی را، به ابزاری برای افشا، و وارسی ژرفترین علایق و مشغله ی ذهنی خویش، بدل میکند.
چگونگی احساس گناه، و همزیستی میان دو نفر (دو مرد)، که همدیگر را، هم جذب و هم دفع میکنند، از هنرهای یگانه ی نگارگر داستان همین کتاب است.
فیلم «ظهر ارغوانی»، اثر: آلفرد هیچکاک، در سال 1961 میلادی، براساس همین رمان، ساخته شده است.
We're drawn into Tom's troublingly untroubled world of crime, we're seduced into seeing the problems of Tom's murders from his point of view as puzzles to be solved in order to protect his now-customary lifestyle.It's a very difficult feat to pull off.
Highsmith, from all reports an unpleasant person to know, does this difficult balancing act with an assured hand at the storytelling tiller and a character-compass that pointed true north at all times.
I was not a big fan of Highsmith's Strangers on a Train, so I wasn't really looking forward to tackling another of her novels.
The two guys hit it off, and spend some time bopping around Europe like two Ken dolls on holiday.
But things turn ugly when Ripley senses his time as Dickie's favorite toy may be coming to an end.
Highsmith featured her character Ripley in four more novels.
Ripley's the star of this show, and oh, how he shines.
There's still plenty of time if you'd like to join us for the discussion.
I mean, we're all super-familiar with the heroic(anti-heroic) murderer protagonist, and some of us might be extremely familiar with it if they've read practically any mystery novels or watched ANY tv at all...
I remember watching the movie and have a great time with it, too, in the theater.
This novel, with so many others of the time including movies, always made the bad guys homosexuals.
I chose to read it as a buddy novel gone really wrong instead of thinly-veiled homosexuality, and I enjoyed it more, but the question still remains.
Dickie Greenleaf is AWOL from his father's shipbuilding firm in New York City and living in Mongibello, Italy.
Dickie's father tracks Tom Ripley down in a New York bar.
Mr. Greenleaf offers to cover Tom's costs if he will go to Italy and talk Dickie into returning home.
Tom goes over, immediately becomes jealous of Marge, Dickie's lover.
Tom charms Dickie and moves in with him, estranging him from Marge.
Tom begins to see a way in which he might subsume Dickie.
The Talented Mr. Ripley is an intense psychological thriller that builds to the peak of suspense a bit slowly and then erupts to a biting your nails, edge of your seat kind of pitch.
If you've seen the movie already or read too many descriptions of the story line, then I would imagine this would lessen the jolt you would otherwise experience.
Having read the book, the movie will likely be less sensational; but the promise of being able to view the beautiful scenery on my television screen has me greatly anticipating watching this regardless.
It's a classic case of someone who feels arrogant and snide toward others but who also hates himself and feels like he doesn't fit in anywhere, unless he's impersonating someone else.
After living Dickie's life for several months, Ripley realizes he can't keep up the charade anymore because the police are looking for Dickie, and Tom has to revert to being himself again."This was the end of Dickie Greenleaf, he knew.
He hated going back to himself as he would have hated putting on a shabby suit of clothes."I looked up what else Patricia Highsmith wrote and discovered that she wrote the novel that the Hitchcock movie "Strangers on a Train" was based on.
One of the most chilling characters in literature I have ever encountered. Tom Ripley is all the more horrifying because of his total lack of empathy; someone who has looked into the abyss and thinks nothing of pushing others into it while laughing.
When the 1999 film adaptation of The Talented Mr. Ripley was released, I remember reading a lengthy magazine article that discussed all the things about the book that were changed for the movie.
I don't remember now what any of those changes were, but I do remember that I came away from the article thinking the book didn't sound very good.
This isn't the kind of book I'm generally compelled to reach for, and I doubt I'll read any of the sequels.
But I recognize perfection when I see it, and for what it sets out to do, The Talented Mr. Ripley is just about perfect.
Even worse, he feels entitled to a life of riches and the respect of the gentle folks, probably out of his exalted opinion of his own cleverness and out of a feeling discriminated against in childhood by an authorian aunt.Everything Tom Ripley ever wanted seems within his grasp when he somehow ingratiates himself with Mr. Greenleaf, an older New York industrialist, from whom he extracts money for a trip to Italy, there to convince his son Dickie to return home.
I probably will read the next Ripley books, but before that I might try other Patricia Highsmith titles (Strangers on a Train beckons me at the moment), hoping to have a less repulsive reaction towards the main character.
The narrator, Tom Ripley, is a sociopath who is one troubled and sinister character.
Upon accepting his proposal, the tale of obsession and deception begins as Tom Ripley weaves his life into a tangled web, and what he manages to pull off is appalling.
This story requires a tolerance for unlikable characters, as Tom is a violent, manipulating, pathological liar who is lacking self esteem.
Since the book is from his perspective it was disturbing reading his calculated thoughts he expressed.
As despicable as this character was I almost feel guilty saying I liked the book, but I was definitely not rooting for him.
Highsmith takes us into the head of Tom Ripley, and it is an unsettling ride.
Tom is a sociopath (or is he?), but an anxious one.
And inside his head, we are carried along as his crimes mount, one upon the other, and feel the tension as he skirts the edge of disaster and discovery.
Are we tense because we want him to be captured?
Or because we want him to get away with it?Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Oh Tom Ripley...
No, I don't know what white roses "means"- pick a damn meaning and be gone!) and also rather paranoid.
It makes my former Puritan guilt think look like moss beneath a flowering tree on the first day of spring.
Maybe it's because I'll be in Florida for a week soon, and I associate that state with old folks (mostly), that I couldn't help but dream, lust even, after a Patricia Highsmith mystery club with me and a handful of old ladies with peach and purple hairs and nice slacks and wide brimmed hats....
This probably isn't going to sound good, but I feel for Tom Ripley.
Why can't I take the easy way?" Just...my stuff sucks, give me your stuff.Nobody likes Tom. No one's ever really even tolerated him.
You root for him not because you like him - you probably don't - but because...there but for the grace.
"The psychopath," Patricia Highsmith says, "is an average man living more clearly than the world permits him." What makes you root for Ripley is not that he's a bottomless pit of want, but that he proactively tries to fill it.
Rereading this novel taught me a valuable lesson -- when accepting an author's invitation to enter the mind of a paranoid psychopath, you may not like where things are heading, but you've made the choice to be party to his point of view for the time being.
It's the best and imo the only way to wrap your head around what he does and why he does it.Back in the real world, outside of Ripley's mind, of course the guy's a pathological killer, an amoral bad guy who will stop at nothing to get what he wants.
Tom Ripley is a deeply disturbed character, who is described first in the book as a sort of failure at life.
It is just that Tom's self-hatred and feelings of unacknowledged superiority set him up to take on any means of escape from his own life that present themselves, and this is where the gripping plot to this book starts off.
This comes to full show in Ripley and, on this second read, I could not help but wonder what other nuances of Highsmith's personality may have made their way into the book, too.
In the weirdest of ways, The Talented Mr Ripley has been such a fun book.
The Ripley in this book was fucking boring.
Also, there's a character in the movie that is not in the book, and I think he made all the difference, even if he wasn't the center of attention.
Luckily, I read this after having seen the film over a decade ago, because had I read the book first I'd have no desire to watch the film, and that would have been a sad thing.Another problem I had with The Talented Mr. Ripley has nothing to do with this book.
I dislike coincidence as a plot device.
Let me clarify: I do not mind coincidence in books.
Κι ενώ το τέλος είναι αναμενόμενο -ο τίτλος το κάνει ξεκάθαρο- υπήρχε μια περιέργεια/αγωνία για το πως θα εξελιχθούν κάποιες σκηνές/συναντήσεις. Η πλοκή κυλάει άνετα, οι περιγραφές πολλές χωρίς να κουράζουν και οι χαρακτήρες στο σύνολο τους αρκετά ενδιαφέροντες. Ο πρωταγωνιστής οξυδερκής χωρίς ηθικούς ενδοιασμούς αλλά τρομερά ανασφαλής, δεν δέθηκα μαζί του, ούτε τον συμπάθησα όμως προκάλεσε το ενδιαφέρον και μαζί την λύπηση μου.4 αστεράκια για την γραφή την οποία πραγματικά απόλαυσα.
To Tom Ripley, being bored, being around dull people and having nothing to do are among the WORST things in existence.
I'd seen the movie with Matt Damon a long time ago, but I've always been fascinated with the character of Tom Ripley and wanted to read the book for myself.
To me, this is where the strength of this book lies-the creation of Tom Ripley.
However, as far as the creation of a believable sociopath, Tom Ripley would be right at home in an episode of Criminal Minds-and he would give the investigators a good run for their money.
2015: The Year of Reading Women
Bel thriller psicologico. Parte in sordina, con la descrizione/premessa della vita di Tom, per poi balzare in alto e non abbassarsi più fino all’imprevedibile finale.
"Man, damn good book," I mumbled to myself as I turned the last page early this morning, far too early to express more substance or insight through the strange mental fog that renders me zombie-like yet still allows me to read with clarity, as what I read seeps down into my body & soul where nerves are racing and my palms are clammy while person after person files by examining me with suspicion for every indiscretion or deception I've ever committed.
I remember the exhilaration of getting away with the lies; the exhilaration of looking into the eyes of someone who believes my balderdash; balderdash I myself now believe in an ecstasy of self-revelation.
Big thanks to Mishy for another great buddy read and to Giulio for scholarly guidance.For a super exclusive behind the scenes look at this amazing buddy read - follow this link!Here's a little peek at what you'll see:Mish and I are both camera shy, but sometimes the paparazzi gets past security.
3.5 starsA creepy thriller with themes of identity and sexuality at its core.
Tom Ripley, an observant yet dull man, befriends Dickie Greenleaf, a rich and charismatic aspiring artist.
When Tom makes a life-altering decision, he finds himself changed as well - a new identity forged from his own dark desire.I love Patricia Highsmith's characterization of Tom. Her portrayal of him raises so many questions: can we gain power by staying "in the closet" about our sexuality and other parts of our identities?
With The Talented Mr. Ripley, Highsmith creates a suspenseful tale that asks us to question ourselves and the people around us.
