https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12652457-the-broken-eye
omg dat ending tho
This is my reaction reading this book, especially after the last pages of the book.If that "whoa" still didn't convince you, here's my more detailed review.As my previous review of The Blinding Knife, it would be much better for me to focus my review based on each character POV's but before I get started on it, let me say that this book's plot and its world expansion is huge.
Specifically on the topic of Lightbringer's prophecy, Orholam, Nine Kings, Order of the Broken Eye & the Blinding Knife, which is great honestly cause this is the third book and it's about time we get to know more on the history of the world in the series.
They’re wrong, Teia.
I just don’t think we need to burn it to the ground to do it.” The characters are better developed than in the previous installment, and more importantly, the secondary POVs are interesting again.
Gavin & Kip had the best chapters, but I was also looking forward to Teia's & Karris' chapters as well.
I won't deluge in the magic/character/world building since I have done so in the reviews of the previous 2 installments and nothing changed, but I will mention that the tension was keep building, and unexpected circumstances kept occurring all the time.
The meticulously crafted world of Weeks is expanding, opening up and it feels like it's been energized in The Broken Eye. The solid and original but sometimes obvious magic system shows no limit. It's now simply in the details, in the doctrine of the Chromaturgy and the way it's been twisted that the magic of the author's intricate creation really shine.
Honestly how am I supposed to wait a whole year for this book to come out!
I just spent all of this past year waiting for Blinding Knife to come out!
You know Brent weeks has to be a great author for everyone to be desperate to get his books.AFTER TWO YEARS OF WAITING I HAVE FINALLY READ IT!!!!It did take awhile for me to really get into this book but I did around page 200.
If you Like Brent Weeks you do not want to miss his latest (and possibly best) book.
Yep... I might have to re-read the previous two books to try to remember what happened on them. I should have waited for the series to finish first but Nooooo I could not help reading more of Brent Weeks' books after the Night Angel series
Well at this point I must admit that I think Brent Weeks should have stuck to making this a trilogy.
There was far too much padding and even the action scenes went on and on until they became tedious.Just a few moments ago I looked at the blurb for book 4 and discover that Gavin spends most or even all of the next book in yet another prison situation.
Everyone else seems to love the book so if you are thinking of reading it please take no notice of me.
I now have to decide whether I can stomach reading more about Gavin in prison:(
Eirene was a great secondary character who was convincingly written as a good woman who was pushed to some extreme and immoral actions by circumstance and Gavin's quick-witted plotting was a really cool way to show that he could still be formidable even stripped of his magic) and a dramatic fall from grace arc after Gavin seemed like such a Gary Stu back in book 1.Kip continued his character development and his was probably my favourite arc in this book.
How can people rate a book that has yet to be written?
Maybe it is a good way to tell you - i love this book and series, and the only way I know how to express my feelings is by encouraging one and all to go, get it, and read it!!!
Broken, and although he keeps on fighting, is there going to be a point when he will give all up and wallow in defeat??
Kip is Kip- he really goes through a growth spurt in this book - not only physically, but emotionally as well, and hopefully starts showing the promise of a great man to come...
It doesn’t mean our house doesn’t need a thorough cleaning.
I want to make some sense of this book - yet, I just finished it so it is going to be an "emotional" review. First and foremost, I am so glad this book focused (view spoiler)[ on the Chromaria primarily. It was time to know more about it, to get a better understanding of the political and otherwise powers at stake (hide spoiler)].I did not have a problem with any character (view spoiler)[ besides Aliviana Danavis but I think the book left her story line at such a big intersection I think she mig
It was time to know more about it, to get a better understanding of the political and otherwise powers at stake  (hide spoiler)].I did not have a problem with any character (view spoiler)[ besides Aliviana Danavis but I think the book left her story line at such a big intersection I think she might come around!
I cannot wait to see what will happen to her in the next book (view spoiler)[ and that creepy cloak  (hide spoiler)].
(hide spoiler)]Gavin himself is really going through hell here.
I wonder if there is going to be a short story about the young White.
Of course, that makes it hard to know what to read in the first place.But this may help: If you've come here, you obviously like Brandon Sanderson's writing.
There are some "oh my goodness" moments where you have to begin to reinterpret many things that have gone before, but for the most part you're with characters you love while they get closer to their goals or make well-meaning mistakes that screw up their lives even more than they were before.Something else I should shoehorn into this post just because Brandon is a huge Magic: The Gathering fan is that starting in the second book there's a familiar-seeming card game that plays an important role.
The BB&B BR with Choko & Sarah is still going strong!Five Prismatic stars! ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐The Broken Eye is the third book in The Lightbringer series so expect spoilers below guys.I warned you right? SPOILERS.Ok, ok. Tagging it.(view spoiler)[The Blinding Knife ended with Kip slaying a god with the help of Gavin & the Blackguards in the Battle of Ru but unfortunately it did not quite end on that high for our MC’s. On the trip back Kip fought with Andross and Grinwoody and when Gavin intervened
Also, Gunner has possession of the Blinding Knife which has somehow turned into a one-of-a-kind luxin rifle and Liv has been chosen by the Colour Prince to become the Superviolet God. The Broken Eye picks up pretty much exactly where we left and follows on with each of these threads to begin the story, but things quickly go from bad to worse.
Andross is becoming more powerful by the day, the White who was his only check is dying, the Colour Prince is winning the war and Teia seems to be in over her head with the Order of the Broken Eye. Kip on the other hand is definitely growing as a person, and it is a joy to see him making the transition from boyhood to adulthood.
So far the best book in the series with a lot of shit going on....all the time!! Never a dull moment
It is a book of side stories and info about the main characters with almost zero plot forwarding until the last few chapters.
All of what was read in this book could have and more importantly should have, been added to the first two books.
Character building should not be a book three in a series.
Not only did I find the read boring, but worse, I felt like I completely wasted my money, which is not what I would expect from an author like Weeks in the middle of a series.
Given that I really didn't like book one either, I would find this series difficult to recommend.
Of course, there are still the occasional quirks that pop up in his prose which drive me nuts, such as his attempts at humor that often fall flat, or certain word choices (totally a personal thing – and I realize an author can do or say whatever they want in his or her world, but seeing slang terms like “butt”, “gross” and “booger” in an epic fantasy novel still has this way of grinding my gears).
In all three books, it always felt like most of the significant developments in the story tended to come towards the end.The parting twist here in The Broken Eye is a great example of how Weeks keeps these books interesting.
But seeing as I liked this book more for it, I’m definitely not complaining.Kip, however, is still posing a bit of problem.
This is the continuation of the story from books #1 and #2 but honestly, this one was better than both of them for me because I practically *lived* inside the world and was alongside all the characters whilst I was drawing.
He's a pretty brave character and he too has changed and grown in ways I wouldn't have imagined at the start of book #1, but it's a great journey to follow.
Middle book syndrome!
I enjoy politics and battles and magic a lot and can subsist for a long time on just the micro elements of good stories.
The book ended with many of the main characters a mere step from where they began--Gavin from captured to captured; Kip from fleeing to fleeing, Betrayers continue to betray, and there are a few "oh, snap!" moments here, but they're a little bit expected (looking at you, big guy) and not quite as punchy because you feel like redemption is there even before the betrayal sinks in.
I understand the need for middle books.
GreatA really good instalment in the series. I like the way the books started off slowly, seemingly simple, yet layer after layer is added bit by bit. More of the seven satrapies is revealed, along with more back story on Gavin and others. Still plenty to keep you guessing. The plot has definitely thickened, with some unexpected twists along the way. I will now read book 4.
There is a lot of good ideas, plots, and characterisation within these pages and Weeks glorifies in it, doing what he does best and loving every moment of it.That being said, I don't think this novel is as strong as 'Blinding Knife', it's still bloody good though (hence the 5 stars).
It's complicated without being bogged down in too many settings and too many characters meaning your constantly in the thick of things with every chapter and with the unpredictability of Week's writing keeping you guessing at each and every moment.
Oops, accidentally deleted from my shelves.Dont feel like typing out my review again. This book rocked. The end.
Yes. After the conclusion of this novel, I can't wait for the 4th and final installment to close out the story lines of these characters Week's has made me learn to love/hate/love to hate.
Here, a 16 year old Kip learns to live on his own a little (being separated from Gavin) and tries to find his way in matters of love, friendship and adulthood.Gavin deals with his loss of color sight.This is a great book with our favorite characters.
I just couldn't give it 5 stars since it focused on a lot but "moved" the storyline very little.
That ending has killed me :'(, thanks Brent weeks for stomping on my heart. RTC if I ever stopped crying
had the time only for maybe 100 pages and it is just vintage Brent Weeks so far; almost impossible t
La Blanca sabia demasiado.La familia de Puño es más complicada que...Momento OO cortesia del Ojo Fragmentado.
Mucho ojo con los esclavooos.Kip es un adolescente vaya que si, libido gana.Kip tiene un encuentro con Flagg.
tiene muchos desafios y como que esta al borde del lado oscuro.Y donde esta cosa se nos desbandó para el lado místico lleno de significados religiosos que ya ni siquiera se disfrazan.
Y se esperaran a que tengo acceso de nuevo a mi pc para poner citas acordes :PYa quiero ver que pasa en el sgte!!!
And I'm rounding it up simply because there were some great moments in this book, which as whole just felt like it dragged on and on and on and on..
These characters are good and I really liked them back in book two, but The Broken Eye seemed to have stretched out the character development on the downward trajectory as far as I was concerned.
I thought that I am supposed to care more, not less about these characters by the third book, but alas, it was not the case.
I probably didn't care about half the events in the book and I'm also not sure how I felt of the revelation at the end as well.
Finally, I like Kip! Very much much enjoyed this 3rd book. I think it the best in the series so far. Can't wait for book 4!
Kip continues to be awesome, Andross Guile continues to be an asshole (even when at times I almost start warming up to him), Gavin is still a favorite although (view spoiler)[ his chapters were some of the hardest to read.
I spent the entire book just wanting him and Kip to have a reunion, to spend time together  (hide spoiler)] Karris is still badass, the Blackguard squad got fleshed out more chacter-wise.
(view spoiler)[ Ironfist a bad guy.
(hide spoiler)]Can't wait to dig into the next book and then a spend a year miserable waiting for the final book to come out.
I have also always said that one should read between the lines for fantasy, that patterns and ideas are truly important, that fantasy should be examined in an interdisciplinary manner (as should all 'genre works').
In essence one could read and see this series as all about artists battling artists and artistic conventions (established in the novels by religious beliefs).However, I didn't feel that this particular book drove the story along as far as it could have.
It was caught up with the minutiae of the world and politics (the type of thing that caused Robert Jordan's later books to falter and expand in size) rather than necessarily fully driving the story to a proper close.
