https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/977262.Asimov_s_New_Guide_To_Science
Paul was asking the other day, apropos a Kasparov review, what would have happened if other countries had tried to organise a chess infrastructure similar to the one the Soviet Union built up, and systematically nurtured young talents.
Barden was a strange, shy, nerdy kind of person, and we all laughed at him behind his back, but I have to give him credit: the program was a stunning success, and made Britain one of the top chess countries throughout the 80s and early 90s.
This time, the key person was Isaac Asimov, like Barden a strange, geeky guy who simply refused to acknowledge what he was up against.
This book takes a grand Asimovian sweep across the entire world of science and covers every area: no book I have ever read has communicated so vividly the wonder of science as a whole and not simply an area of it such as chemistry or biology.
I don't know how many times I found myself thinking ''ah, so that's how it works!'' during the course of reading this.
Unlike many science writers, he actually explains where words have their origins: for example, why the particle families ''baryons'' and ''leptons'' have those names.
I would seriously recommend this to anyone interested in science.
As a grown up science kid this book was like catnip to me.
I read Volume One of the original 1960 edition of this two-volume work - which covers the "hard" sciences - Chemisry, Physics, Astronomy, etc.
I was astonished at how well the Good Doctor wove a historical narrative for each discipline - later chapters made frequent reference to earlier ones.
I knew perhaps 80% of the science but very little of the history so for me it read like a well-organized, non-linear novel.
Dr. Asmiov used no math for this volume, thus making all of the narrative readily accessible to a wide readership.
This is, quite possibly, the best history of science ever written.
In any case, the book is a very thorough history of science up to about 1980, with an extensive biographical index and a subject index.
The coverage is by subject rather than a chronological account, which I think makes sense given the enormous complexity of the subject.
Asimov wrote a surprisingly huge number of non-fiction books in addition to all of his science fiction.
I can vouche for the high quality of his coverage in the area of molecular biology where my expertise lies.
In addition to being a legendary science-fiction writer, Isaac Asimov is one of the most successful science popularizers of all time, and this book demonstrates why.
In it, he delivers a comprehensive, well-organized, well-written survey of the known sciences as of the time of publication.
But, since that time was over twenty years ago, is his book still worth reading today?
This lends much of the text the fascination of a mystery story, and gives the attentive reader a good basic grounding in the sciences.
Published in 1984, this is the 4th version of a book which started life in 1960 as "The Intelligent Man's (sic) Guide to Science".
Also I personally would deduct a star because I'm not that intelligent!
The style is quite readable but the subject matter can get hard going at times.
I've since dipped into it regularly.All in all, I wouldn't want to put anyone off giving this book a try.
Less detailed and a much easier, conversational style.
Have a look at that first and if it's not technical enough for you, try Asimov.Anyone know any other "popular" science books covering "nearly everything"?Dave
This is a tremendous read - its depth and breath of coverage is impressive. Highly recommended
Fantastic, abridged chronological history of scientific advancements.
He refers to igneous and sedimentary rocks but does not explain how they different, nor mention the metamorphic type.
A bit more coverage of phases of matter, including exotic ones that have been explored better in the years since, and of materials science, would have been helpful.3.
Very light on gross anatomy of any species, including humans.
He mentions mitochondria's synergetic status with (most) eukaryotes but not its distinguishable genetic descent from nuclear DNA.
He's very good on optical activity (polarization of light by molecules), but Feynman, in his Lectures on Physics, is even better.
This is not a book meant to be read cover-to-cover.
Let me set that out there straightaway, for anyone who thinks this may be an interesting read.
I'd suggest this book (or would have at the time of publication) for readers interested in a particular scientific topic, to get an overview of that field.
But reading straight through was nearly impossible, and its age has made it a relic.Now, as this is the last of the Asimov books I'm reviewing this year, I just have to say he is one of the most brilliant humans our world has ever seen.
Granted, the book would change if it were written now, as there have been many advancements within theoretical physics (e.g. the acceleration of the universe, higgs boson stuff ?!
etc etc..nevertheless it seems that most of the foundations of modern science have not radically changed, and therefore this book is still very much relevant .
In short, if you are about to embark upon your education in science and wish to have a general overview, or maybe a review of information you have not looked at for 30 years , this is a great place to go.
Prácticamente nada de este libro ha quedado anticuado.Aunque he leído la edición original en inglés, también tengo la de P&J en tapa blanda y he de decir que la traducción es poco menos que exquisita. Mi edición en español carece de la bibliografía y del índice de materias, pero la edición electrónica que anda por ahí sí que lo tiene.Tan solo he detectado un error: falta medio párrafo en no me acuerdo qué lugar casi al final de la primera parte, que no está ni en la electrónica ni en la P&am
Prácticamente nada de este libro ha quedado anticuado.Aunque he leído la edición original en inglés, también tengo la de P&J en tapa blanda y he de decir que la traducción es poco menos que exquisita. Mi edición en español carece de la bibliografía y del índice de materias, pero la edición electrónica que anda por ahí sí que lo tiene.Tan solo he detectado un error: falta medio párrafo en no me acuerdo qué lugar casi al final de la primera parte, que no está ni en la electrónica ni en la P&J. Por lo demás, impecable.
A great compendium and introduction to General Science
this was a very exciting book I would recommend in to my class
June 1961, 3rd printingwrong shelf
I'm on page 50 and I've learned about the Parallax theory which states the distance between stars.
I also learned that we are in a spiral galaxy because our stars are population 1.I'm on page 266 and I'm learning the starting point of chemistry or it was known back then as alchemy.
The starting point meaning have the five earth elements like fire, water, and so forth which water can be broken down to oxygen and hydrogen therefor it's not a element.
Then we move up meaning that they find much more effective then acetic acid which is called chlorine but back then it was known as hydrochloric acid.
In addition to being a legendary science-fiction writer, Isaac Asimov is one of the most successful science popularizers of all time, and this book demonstrates why.
In it, he delivers a comprehensive, well-organized, well-written survey of the known sciences as of the time of publication.
But, since that time was over twenty years ago, is his book still worth reading today?
This lends much of the text the fascination of a mystery story, and gives the attentive reader a good basic grounding in the sciences.
Es increíble para tenerlo en tu biblioteca como libro esencial.Para aquellos fanáticos a la ciencia,
Although it is now dated... this is still an excellent book about the history of science. Covering the major branches, it attempts to bring the average layperson up to our current scientific understandings. Asimov wanted to write sequels to this book every so often so that it would keep abreast, but unfortunately, he passed away. This book is one of the reasons that I truly miss this author.The closest book I have found to this one is "A History of Nearly Everything" by Bill Bryson (also recommended)
Dr Asimov wrote this book as a way for the average layperson to understand science from its humblest beginnings to where we are at now. The material is dated now, having been written decades ago, but it is still worthwhile. Asimov wrote in an easy way that could simplify complex topics. He was entertaining and could make the driest subject something of interest.I own a hardcover of this book. If you're looking for a book similar to this one, I would recommend Bill Bryson's "A Short History of Nearly Everything".
I read this book three times as I was growing up (starting with Intelligent Man's Guide, through to New Guide). I found it quite difficult, thinking as a kid that it was because it was hard science, and difficult was good. But I ended up much more skeptical, realizing that I was finding it a slog because I was always arguing with it, unconvinced by its always-politically-correct unscientific pontifications. Meh. I won't be re-reading it anymore, nor recommending it to any smart kids.
The book is great for beginners in science. Even though out-dated in some parts it does provide the comprehensive analysis of science, its theories and its history. It is hard (takes time) to consume but is very interesting. Within those 800 odd pages you cover quite a lote of the known universe and its meaning to the current intellectual human being. It is a book in a story mode (everything is realted) is in continuation and a step by step realization of science.
Before Google, one of the best encyclopedias of general science.
I will always be 'currently reading' this book. It's not one I'm ever likely to read all the way through but it is very interesting. It makes sciency things seem really easy to understand!
My favorite ever
This is the best one-volume overview of Science I've ever come across.
This book got me into science and the beauty of knowledge.I read it when I was 13 years old.It is a huge book, but I highly recommend it to anyone that desires to dive in scientific knowledge.
Ya algo desactulizado.
I read this book (in Spanish) when I was about 15 years old. I decided to read it again, this time in English, and I don't regret it at all. This book should be mandatory in high schools.
this book is awsum
