https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/506871.Life_with_Father
I'm not sure what is more delightful, reading a 1944 copy of the near-century-old classic "Life with Father" and laughing mirthfully at 'Father's' headstrong, clueless and inane antics as penned by his son - OR - breathing in and being enveloped in the musky, vanilla, earthy, almond scent of buttercream, careworn pages.
Aside from Father's love of 'damning' everything, and a few other expletive phrases, I thoroughly enjoyed this classic.
Many a time I laughed loud and uncontrollably, to the delight of my hubby - I'm sure.
;-)FIVE ***** Delightful Classics That Never Grow Old, No Matter How Many Times You Read Them ***** STARS
I always read with sick fascination those [true] stories of eccentric, overbearing fathers (The Mitford's Farve, Cheaper by the Dozen's Mr. Gilbreth).
Reading those books with "those fathers" always makes me thankful that my father is not so overwhelmingly obsessed with things being just so.
The main reason I read this is because I like the movie.
While the book was just as amusing, it did lack one thing: William Powell.
I guess you could say I have a thing for him, yes.
And actually, Life With Father was the movie that introduced me to him!)
This outlandishly humorous character is based in Clarence Day Junior’s real life father, and he’s written a series of books that are so funny we can’t read them out loud on family car trips for fear of us all dying in a blazing wreck due to laughter.
And if you want a preview that is, actually, quite faithful to the books, get hold of the delightful film "Life with Father," its a good one, and family-friendly.Many readers struggle with Day's "overbearing fathering" or his patriarchal manners with his wife.
I enjoyed all the stories from early 1900's. It gave me a different point of view about new devices such as the telephone. Life was so much different back then. Even something as simple as ice was a big deal back then. We are so spoiled now. I took my time reading this book and spent some time just thinking if I lived back then. The book really opened my eyes.
The chapter headings are a good reflection of the humorous nature of this book -- "Father Has Trouble with the Land of Egypt"; "Father Interferes with the Twenty-third Psalm"; "Father and the Crusader's Third Wife."In the chapter about the twenty-third psalm, the author explains how he found himself suddenly speculating about what his father's opinion would be of the twenty-third psalm.
I could see him in my mind's eye, in his tailed coat and top hat, refusing point-blank even to enter a pasture."Readers will have to pardon father's liberal use of the word "damn" and at least one openly racial slur.
Humour, no matter how understated, often has a tendency to age poorly. Life with Father is a good case in point, in that the stubborn but lovable central character no longer seems quite so lovable 75 years later, and the humorous anecdotes now seem more like living under the tyrannical decrees of a spoiled and petulant man-child.There were still flashes of humour and it remains an (albeit exaggerated) window into a bygone age, no doubt, but even the normally sublime and sedated New Yorker style can not stop the march of time and changing mores.
I picked up this old yellowing book from a "free book" shelf, because I remember my dad liking the movie of it. The book is similar to Cheaper by the Dozen (which I love), but I don't like how domineering Mr. Day is. I enjoyed reading about daily life over a hundred years ago, including what the children played, what it was like for the family when telephones were first invented, and what it was like to ride the train to the Chicago World's Fair.
Go back to New York City at the turn of the century (hmm, the previous century) and get to know Clarence Day, Sr. He's one of a kind, and his son's vignettes about his quirks and peculiarities are hilarious. Vinnie, Clare's long-suffering wife, is equally amusing. The movie is a gem and that rare exception, even better than the book. Both are highly recommended.
I think if I had been reading this one story at a time weekly, I wouldn't have fallen asleep so much. That said, I didn't dislike the book. The stories were humorous and I laughed out loud a few times. I am sure that I could never have lived with such a husband, but I saw traits in him that remind me of Tyler in odd ways. Certainly he was interesting enough to write a book about.
The author himself (Clarence Jr) goes to small and periodic effort to endear the reader to his father but the attempts ring rather hollow like a man whose protagonist is watching over his shoulder as he writes.
As such it makes for a very light read but one that requires the reader to throw away any notion of cause and effect.The thread that I came away with most solidly from this bit of literature was less about the book and more about the movie which came after.
At first, I couldn’t stand Clare, as the dad was called.
But as I got into the book, I began to pick up on the humor of a man who despite knowing exactly how the world ought to be run, finds that people around him never quite go along with his plans.
The humor of the situation began to grow on me and I wound up enjoying the book.One of the best parts of the book was the setting.
Eventually I decided that dads haven’t changed much in the last 120 years after all.
The following year, he joined the New York Stock Exchange, and became a partner in his father's Wall Street brokerage firm.
Day enlisted in the Navy in 1898, but developed crippling arthritis and spent the remainder of his life as a semi-invalid, making his living as a writer and long-time contributor to The New Yorker magazine.
Day's comic stories of his father are taken from his serialized articles in the The New Yorker magazine.
The book does paint an accurate picture of life in that time for a middle class family.
I like the father -- very opinionated, intolerant of problems, and just a huge personality.
The amazing thing was that his son, who wrote the book, loved and understood his father.
For that I should have given the book a 5-star rating."Father got annoyed at us when we didn't stay well.
He usually stayed well himself and he expected us to be like him, and not faint and slump on his hands and thus add to his burdens."(His shirt) was beginning to tear.
When Father was unhappy, he said so.
But he was a thoroughly good-hearted and warm-bloodied man, and he saw no reason for hiding his feelings.
They were too strong to hide anyway."
"Life With Father" by Clarence Day Jr. is a true story about the daily life of a red-headed, New York family in the late 1800's.
Each chapter reveals a different incident or characteristic in "Father's" life, making it easy to read either "on-the-go" or all at once.
The Author remembers "Father" from a child's perspective, adding hilarity to every chapter as Father continuously loses his temper or forces his views and ego on everyone around him.
"Father" rules the house and the money, but "Mother" is continually outwitting and scheming to get what she needs.
Though often humourous at "Father's" expense, the book comes across as a wonderful and respectful memoire.
Humor just the way I like it. It's a shame that some of these great old books fall out of favor due to modern sensibilities. Yes, there is innate racism, classism, sexism, and other unfair biases, but I know that these were, sadly, accurate depictions of different times. I don't like having to throw the baby out with the bathwater though. I feel I can read and gain the humor and family insights without becoming tainted. All that said, if you can't abide domineering autocrats, don't read this book.
An amazing read, I loved every moment of this wonderful read. I came across this book while watching an old William Powell movie on TCM by the same name. The father in the movie played by William Powell, was hilarious. I knew, I had to find a copy of this book. I loved the language and writing style Clarence Day Jr used while writing about his parents during the late 1800's and early 1900's. This is definitely, going on my favorites shelf.
A classic, and for good reasons. The author simply describes what it was like to grow up with the towering, yet slightly goofy figure of his father casting a shadow over his life. Funny and serious at the same time, written from the perspective of someone with great respect and love for his dad but also a finely-honed awareness of his flaws. This was written years before it was fashionable to hate your parents, and it reflects that.
The stories are misty rosy tinted anecdotes of New York's upper crust in the Gay 90's.With just enough humor to soften the very sharp edges of Mr Day, and enough life lessons to fuel a sitcom, Life With Father is a deserved classic.
Fallada hat in Clarence Day seinen „literarischen Zwilling“ gefunden und dessen Geschichten über den Herrn Vater prompt übersetzt.
Es sind kurze Episoden, die zeitlich aufeinander aufbauen, aber theoretisch auch als Kurzgeschichten getrennt voneinander gelesen werden können.
In den Geschichten geht es immer um Days Vater beziehungsweise um ihr gemeinsames Familienleben in der Zeit der Jahrhundertwende, das teils turbulent, aber immer mit viel Humor und ab und an mit kleinen Zeichnungen von Day persönlich versehen sind.
Sie eignen sich bestens zum Vorlesen.
Kurzum: Der Herr Day macht furchtbar viel Spaß!
Humorous?
Sure, in parts.
Provided you don't live with someone who exhibits these exact traits.
I knew going in that the patriarch had been diagnosed as ocpd much later on, long after the book had been published and the Day family had advanced a couple generations.
But man, this book sure hit the proverbial nail on the head.
I could easily see myself in the wife/mother, Vinnie, although I'll give it to her - she had some bigger balls than I ever will in some dealings with her husband.
Overall, I did enjoy the book and sure, some parts hit a little too close to home.
Spent the summer reading this to the kids, mostly because its short-story format could be doled out piecemeal, making it the perfect choice for a disrupted summer. Plus the language of the time period matched well with our summer vocab-building regimen. We all agreed that Father is fun to read about but would be annoying to live with. [Note: I edited out some of Father's swearing as I was reading to the kids. I told them ahead of time that Father swears often but that I wasn't going to repeat all of it.]
Does Father have Asperger's maybe? For he first couple of chapters I couldn't enjoy this book much; "Father" is such a jerk. Then I got to thinking. He's not ungenerous or cruel, just lacking empathy and skill at reading others' emotions. . . . Anyway, later on the book got funnier to me and I laughed out loud at several points. I remember liking the movie.
I think I got this at a book fair in 7th grade. I'm guessing because it was published in 1967 by Scholastic Book Services. I remember reading it it then and feeling that I had been transported to turn-of-the-century (the one before last) New York. This out-of-body experience is a tribute to the writer's skill and lovely temperament.
Thoroughly delightful! Wonderful sense of humor! This was such a pleasure to read!
A hilarious account of the author's experiences with his father. I loved the Chapter : "Father Interferes with the Twenty-Third Psalm" best of all..
A delightful telling of a rather eccentric man running his household and family in the 1880's of New York City --- made me chuckle and laugh out loud!
I enjoyed the movie much more but that was probably because of William Powell.
Charming! Very much like the movie, but without the storyline.
Delmonico's looked like a small hotel, and was located south of Wall Street!
(And remember, this is the old Waldorf we're talking about here.) Oo, I want to know more ....'Life with Father' was made into a 1947 movie starring William Powell, Irene Dunne and a very young, very beautiful Elizabeth Taylor.
Besides which, the screenplay has a horrible plot-line that involves Mother spending the whole movie wanting Father to be baptized.
(hide spoiler)]So, while the book is not a bad read, I can't really recommend the movie either.(My copy is a 1943 hardcover published by The Sun Dial Press)
Excellent and hilarious biography of Clarence Day, Sr.
