https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/682761.The_Nazi_Officer_s_Wife
I keep reading them because they are gut wrenching and they keep reminding me that it's important for us to acknowledge and remember what happened in those concentration and death camps .
Reading a memoir like this one, only reminds me all the more how horrific this history was and that this happened to real people.This book is not about the concentration or death camps but it is about the courage and determination of one woman who survived the holocaust as yes - a Nazi Officer's wife.
Let Someone remember who I really am."
Wow. I can't even... Five brilliant stars.
Hahn Beer starts her story back in her childhood, a time before War was declared but things were tense in her home country of Austria.
She talks about her childhood friends and local neighborhoods, giving you the view that even then Jews were not always welcomed amongst the German and Austrian societies.As we are all well aware, Hitler's desire was to create the perfect race of Aryan people as it was his belief that they would be the natural rulers of the world.
First of all, if you are the kind of person, like me, that highly values straight talk, and talk that does not shy away from ANY subject - sex, love, cruelty, motherhood, lying, corruption, guilt and survival - then this is a book for you.
When I picked up this book, honestly, I had a completely different view of Edith.
This book is about people and how we all react differently when shit hits the fan.
I never saw him again.""He saved my life."With these words you see how this author expresses herself in telling her story.Through page 147: I like this book very much.
It annoys me hearing millennials whine about how they need faster internet and all the latest cell phones (before anyone bites my head off, I'm of the millennial generation myself so I'm not trying to be prejudiced).
People of my generation take everything they have, not just their material items but also their rights and freedoms, for granted.
This book tells the story of a woman whose freedom was taken from her, living a life in constant fear, having to hide her very ethnicity just to protect herself, her husband (an SS officer) and her daughter...
Definitely an excellent book worth reading.
Only when the Nazis were on the verge of defeat and desperate was he conscripted and made an officer.
He is essentially a good man, not at all synonymous with the term Nazi Officer.
Most poignantly of all she gets us to understand that everyone almost always has the choice of being kind or unkind, no matter what the circumstances.
True, to show kindness often takes courage but Hahn shows us that courage is no less a part of our humanity than charity.
It’s essentially an incredibly gripping and moving story of kindness and unkindness.
No one forced them to act in an unkind manner.
She took a job at the Red Cross specifically because they did less background checks and fed their nurses on-site.When Edith, now Grete, caught the eye of Nazi officer Werner Vetter, it seemed like a stroke of bad luck that could expose her.
Sometimes it was the most brutal SS man who saved your life, and the sweetest old lady who betrayed you for a few coins.I found Edith's story really compelling.
But during the war, many Germans would candidly speak to each other about things they would later deny ever saying or even thinking.
I liked her brother a lot." The red-haired girl is then never mentioned again while the brother only pops up again, and is finally named, fifty pages later.
But this is not how written text works.
I would have liked to know a lot more about Fred Beer, Edith's postwar husband, and the fifty years between WWII and the writing of this book.
All that is not to say you should not read this book.
You should, if only to get a first-person account of what it was like to be inside Germany in WWII.
Het verhaal van een Joodse vrouw die op haar manier de oorlog probeert te overleven. Ze wordt een tijd te werk gesteld in Aschersleben, dat ik ken uit de verhalen van mijn vader die daar als krijgsgevangene heeft gewerkt. De Joodse werkers gaan op transport naar Polen en worden vervangen door dwangarbeiders uit de bezette landen. Het lukt haar om dat lot te ontlopen door zich voor te doen als niet-Joods en onder de radar te blijven (als een U-boot). Indrukwekkend.
She arrived to take the last examination and was refused admittance and removed from the university because she was a Jew, from that moment on her life was in a downward turmoil.
She was sent off to a labor camp for Jews doing hard physical labor in the fields.
Before this she had never worked physically in her life.
She got papers from a catholic friend and moved to Munich where she worked as a nurse’s aide at a Red Cross Hospital.
Werner was captured on the Eastern Front by the Russians and sent to Siberia.The book is well written and the description of daily life under the Nazis was interesting.
Author Edith Hahn Beer’s personal story of survival remained untold for almost 50 years until encouragement from her daughter, born in a Nazi Germany hospital, inspired her to share the memories she’d long lived in silence with: “I did not discuss my life as a “U-boat,” a fugitive from the Gestapo living under a false identity beneath the surface of society in Nazi Germany, but preferred to forget as much as possible and not to burden younger generations with sad memories.” Edith grew up in a moderately well off secular Jewish family in Vienna, Austria.
Her father died before the Nazi invasion, leaving Edith’s beautiful mother to support 3 daughters via her dressmaking talent.
A beautiful young woman herself, Edith studied law at the University of Vienna, and fancied herself in love with a young socialist who was himself saved from the Holocaust by his Catholic mother.
This felt like a conversation with the author, between only the two of us.
I loved how easy it read in that way.
I loved one part when, after the war she went back to get her papers changed and she met the same man who had given her papers saying she was "deutschblutig" (German-blooded).
She was offered, no, pushed, to judge Nazi cases - and she refused.
I have an immense respect for this woman.Edith's daughter was born during the war and the way her husband acted on his return was hideous.
Would the sons Jewish blood had overridden the German?
I have always been interested in books and stories from the Nazi era.
Not because I find the topic entertaining - but because I believe it is important to understand the atrocities that existed.
I had no clue what this story would be like but I wanted to read about the Nazi side of the events - how did things get so far out of control - or under control of Hitler.
This book provides at least an understanding as to just how such a thing could happen.
The book also delves into some events after the war - did the winners really win and did the losers really lose?
It's always difficult to review an autobiography or memoir, and The Nazi Officer's Wife is no exception.
It's Edith's life, after all!This was fascinating in terms of historical context - it describes the survival of a Jewish woman during the Holocaust via a way that I'd never even considered: she married a Nazi officer.I'd heard this was adapted directly from a spoken interview - and it shows.
That's the only way I can describe it.
Despite the horrific events described, I found it difficult to feel.However, I greatly admire Edith Hahn Beer for reliving what must have been a truly harrowing and traumatic time.
My doctor wants to know why this year I have taken to reading books about the Holocaust.I don't know.
Yet, when I taught Anne Frank The Diary of a Young Girl earlier this year, I did some more reading, and haven't stopped for whatever reason.Maybe it is because I'm P*ssed off at the Holocaust deniers.
Think Anne Frank or The Book Thief, for instance.
Doesn't everyone edit their memories just a bit?An interesting book, simply because it shows great detail of a society and of people.
I've read several accounts of Nazi-occupied Germany, of the camps that were the eventual end of thousands of innocent men, women and children, and of the occasional survivor, who was able - using luck, brains and skill - to forge a new life for themselves with a false identity, but this is the first I've read that was told in such a direct voice.Edith was one of the more lucky ones.
The title is slightly misleading as the author does not really meet her husband until halfway through the book.
Nevertheless, it's a very interesting memoir of how a Jewish girl managed to survive in Nazi Germany by acting her way through the regime's duration.The writing is adequate and the despair she felt at some points came through the words.
My favourite part of the book was when the author goes back to the registration centre to get her real name back and meets the same guy who checked her 'Aryan' antecedents and she told him she was Jewish.
3.5 stars - It was really good.An incredible story, but the memoir is written much like a spoken interview which could be detracting at times. -------------------------------------------Favorite Quote: Every time you hurt somebody you care for, a crack appears in your relationship, a little weakening - and it stays there, dangerous, waiting for the next opportunity to open up and destroy everything.First Sentence: After a while, there were no more onions.
Nun, trotz meiner etwas falschen Erwartungen, hat mir das Buch von Anfang an gefallen.
Die Spannung war während der ersten Seite vorhanden und zog sich durch das ganze Buch.
Das kommt mir alles so unecht vor, nach so einer Geschichte noch glücklich sein zu können.FÜR LEUTE DIE DAS BUCH SCHON GELESEN HABEN:Werner hat mich am Ende wirklich wütend gemacht, was für ein ...
Pepi hat mich auch irgendwie enttäuscht, wie Wege sich im Krieg trennen können.FAZIT:Sehr ergreifend, fesselnd und man wird in die Geschichte hineingezogen.
Vor allem die Schriftweise hat mir sehr gefallen.
Though the diction and sentence structure is relatively easy to read (despite the few German words woven into the sentences), I love how the book really engulfs you in the way the world was in the 1930s and 1940s.
A connection can be made with Edith as her world crumbles and she loses her family and the love of her life, Pepi, due to the war, even if you've never experienced it.
In all, I would definitely recommend this book to anyone, as it will grow on you as you read about Edith Hahn Beer's incredible journey.
Along with the help of Susan Dworkin, Edith Hahn Beer tells her story in, “The Nazi Officer’s Wife: How One Jewish Woman Survived the Holocaust”.The title of Hahn-Beer’s memoir is somewhat of a misnomer as it begets a reader to believe that much of the work will be a high-drama reflection of a Jewish woman married to a Nazi more reasonably conceived for a Hollywood film than real life.
Hahn-Beer’s story is fascinating and although the writing isn’t a masterpiece; it is the content that is mind-blowing.The tone of the memoir is relaxed and somewhat conversational making it feel like one is sitting with Hahn-Beer and having a conversation about her life.
From the stage she got her papers, she did not go hungry and had a comfortable life (compared to the vast majority of the Jews and even compared to most Germans).One point that touched me was that after the war she went to visit a camp where she met Jews that survived the war through camps .
For me and for my father who knew this woman and liked her, it sounded very strange.The part in the book that described her life from the fall of Germany until she left to England in 1948 was interesting too.
This is the story of a Jewish woman during WWII who spent time in work camps, then was able to adopt a false identity with the help of a friend, and ended up married to a man who was then drafted into Nazi officer service late in the war (he knew about her real identity before they married).
A&E aired a special documentary on this story which I watched a few years ago.
This is probably the best depiction I have read regarding how average non-Jewish people managed to look the other way and live with themselves during the Holocaust.

The question I had to ask myself after finishing "The Nazi Officer's Wife..." was, 'How have I not heard of this book before?' Why is it not on any reading list that I was given in my high school classes?This book is a fantastic and beautiful story of a Jewish woman living through WWII in the heart of Germany.
It gives you a sense of what happened to those Jews who went underground during that time and managed to maintain their façade until the end of the war.Edith Hahn sees her sisters sent away.
She makes me think of Viktor Frankl's Man's "Search for Meaning," to this day the most hopeful song of praise to the human spirit and free choice in the face of evil that I have ever read.
Hahn emphasizes a maxim I've held dear for decades: "You can grow accustomed to anything." What it takes, she says, is "a moment of kindness...someone who is sweet and understanding." Of free will, she says: "It was the individuals who made their own rules...No one forced them to behave in an unkind manner.
Not one of us knows how we'd be in the kind of circumstances Hahn found herself.
After so much hardship, she eventually sees her part of Germany liberated by the Soviets and for a brief time, enjoys the life she was striving for before the Nazis took over Austria: a judge and a mother.Hahn's story was written much after the events occurred, and even though she did have a bunch of old letters and documents to help refresh her memories, I wondered how much of her story was influenced by hindsight.
Hahn had a strange mix of naivity and wisdom during her twenties that I think owed a lot to the story being written in her old age.
Her boyfriend Pepi, is often a detached source of hope and optimism for her, keeping her grounded and self-aware throughout her ordeals.In keeping with the title of the memoir, on her way to Poland, Edith departs the train at Vienna, minus one gold star armband.
Through the help of various friends, she manages to obtain papers of a German girl, taking the name of a German girl and becoming Grete Denner, a mild mannered, obediant women, instead of the starry-eyed, hopeful and intelligent Edith Hahn that she was.
It is the story of a survivor of the Holocast, but not a camp-survivor.
This woman grew up in Vienna.
Just before graduation from law school, she was sent to a work camp.
She tried to be sent back to Vienna so she could be transported to Poland with her mother, but was not allowed.
Soon enough, though, the Nazis had sufficient slave labor to send the Jewish workers off to camp.
Edith (and others) removed her yellow star before boarding the train to return to Vienna.
Edith became Greta and moved to Munich.
A gripping first-person account of a Austrian Jew who came of age in Vienna on the eve of the Nazi takeover of her country, upending her world and killing most of her family.
The reader rides inside of Edith as she suffers the shock and degradation, then panic and rage as her world dissolves.
Being the world’s scapegoat is a burden.This story grips the reader much as The Book Thief, substituting Edith’s immediate living voice for the distant, melancholy voice of Death.
Definite movie potential.Thanks to her daughter, without whose inquiries, this story may have been lost.Glad appropriate recognition given to Susan Dworkin.
