https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76939.Footprints_Under_the_Window
Working out way chronologically through the Hardy Boys books with my son, we were a little disappoint on how Footprints started but we loved where the story took us. This time it is primarily Frank, Joe, and Chet working together in Bayport and travelling to Guyane to bust a spy ring. It is especially fast-paced towards the end with lots of gripping twists and turns and the inevitable teaser for the next book. On to #13!
There are not tropical settings and no army guys in the book I read.But there sure are cringingly terrible racist stereotypes about Chinese people!
If you want to read a novel for kids that literally has phrases like "diabolical, yellow face," have I got a book for you!The mystery begins with the boys needing to get laundry done in a hurry, because Aunt Gertrude is coming.
Unfortunately, the good, honest Sam Lee no longer runs the Chinese Laundry, and instead there's a guy with a twisted grimace of a grin named Louie Fong running the place.How evil is he?
The Hardy's seem to have a problem with gentlemen who would be described as 'swarthy', aka. foreign. Apparently all foreigners are criminals in their eyes, and it's sad to say that the books do tend to reflect that. They are definitely of their time, but their still mildly entertaining in a comical way.
More excitement, adventure, and mystery from this beloved series.
There's quite a bit that readers today will find jarring at best, and really offensive at worst.
And it's hard not to read it as stereotyping Chinese men as being effeminate.I know that a lot of the earlier Hardy Boys mysteries underwent revisions in the 1960s.
I insisted on reading it aloud to him so I could control the conversation a bit, and I did alter some of the worst parts as I was reading.
And we also had a good talk about how times have changed and there are things people used to say that we now realize are wrong and offensive.
this hardy boys was a different one. the title for a start is very misleading for the point that is no beach or people jumping off a board for what i can remember. also the title footprints under the window is odd because there is no window in the cover pic. all in all this is a very fast paced book.
this hardy boys was a different one. the title for a start is very misleading for the point that is no beach or people jumping off a board for what i can remember. also the title ¨footprints under the window¨ is odd because there is no window in the cover pic. all in all this is a very fast paced book.
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books.
The Hardy Boys are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.
Frank Hardy is the elder of the two and has dark hair.
Joe Hardy is the younger brother, and has blond hair and blue eyes.
The stories are an unaging series, in which Frank and Joe are always 18 and 17 years of age, respectively.
In the original series the brothers were a younger 16 and 15 years of age, but their ages were increased during the revision process that began in 1959.
Which Asian stereotype would you like to see today?-The evil, mustachioed villain-The feminine young boy-The wise old laundrymanAll of them are here, plus endless Pidgin English-speak and even a scene where Frank Hardy does "yellowface." Can you tell this book was written in the 1930s?
When I read this as a kid, I didn't really notice any of these unfortunate tropes, but I also didn't know any Chinese people, either.Racial stereotypes aside, the story is pretty interesting, with lots of mystery and suspense.
Has your father ever gone missing? If so then you should read this book. It's about a company that builds the world's best telescope and a group of criminals tries to steal the designs. In the process the boy's dad disappears while trying to stop them. It's exciting.
Another fun mystery involving the Hardy brothers.
It feels like Footprints Under the Window has less of a story line than the other books, and Franklin W.
"I had to look at the page again-tlouble?Also, Chinese people may talk like pirates according to the author.
Instead of saying I don't know, the Chinese would say," I no savee." And after the 25th time the author uses Chinaman in the same sentence with the character's name, I thought I would loose my mind.
(Such as Tony Wat the yellow faced Chinaman.) After the 100th time, I know the person is supposed to be Chinese.
On page 105, I gave up and closed the book.
This book was good one to read.
It was really good the first time and just a good the second.
If you love mystery books and action, this is the book to read.
It was a cool story and had all the same people and more from the other books in the series.
The characters were amazing and you could really get into it because of them.
I rate it a 4 out of 5.
It isn't the best book on the shelf but is one I would recommend to anyone to read at least once in their lifetime.
These stories work because each chapter ending makes you want to keep reading...the cliffhanger effect. They also work because there really is a plot and suspense. I loved them as a boy. Reading now as an adult, they still hold up. I like the characters, including smaller roles like Aunt Gertrude. I think sometimes these kids should call the cops and not risk their lives so much. But that's also what works.
It was fine, but (though all Hardy Boys books do this) this volume seemed to specifically and constantly rely on the boys just happening to be someplace (which they hadn't traveled to to search for clues) at the exact right time for something to happen to give them the clues they needed. There were all 3 other adults working full-time to solve the case and came up with nothing throughout the entire book. Not as good as some of the others.
An evil Caribbean island dictator creates a spy ring to steal secrets from a factory in Bayport. Frank and Joe unravel this plot where no one else can!Alas, Frank and Joe sacrifice their bodies for the good of us all. In the KO Kount, both Frank and Joe get it twice! Where is the concussion protocol? I suppose if there were, there would be no more books! Book: 4Series: 15
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
Footprints Under the Window, uh... wow. Did not age well. There's a reason the revised version of this story is a totally different story. The original is all about Chinese stereotypes and it's pretty bad now. Otherwise not a bad mystery or anything, but ehhhhh.
The Hardy Boys unwittingly stumble upon freedom fighters fighting an repressive regime off the coast of Latin America, and a treasonable capitalist ratchets up the suspense in this rip-roaring tale of international intrigue and espionage.
Frank and Joe thwart yet MORE spies and saboteurs!
2.8 stars.
An exciting page-turner and I sped through it!
Solid adventure, international intrigue, a fairly standard entry in the series.
See below for a review of the revision.The mystery begins when Frank and Joe head to the docks to meet their Aunt Gertrude, who is arriving by boat.
But nothing is quite what it seems, not even the clue of the Footprints Under the Window.While this book is a product of the time in which it was originally written, the depiction of the Chinese characters, especially the way in which they speak, made me feel quite uncomfortable.
Portions of the plot remain — the hardy parents are away, Aunt Gertrude is returning suddenly, but isn't on the boat as expected, and the clues involve immigrants and a local laundry.
The Chinese smuggling premise was probably a real occurrence at that time.
There were a few things in the book that were more than coincidental and the person who left the Footprints under the window turned out to be someone (I won't give who this is away) who's feet were probably bigger than a size six as measured by the boys.
Also, although I love the Gretta cover, the scene where the Chinese are fighting on the dock was not witnessed by the Hardy Boys as shown on the cover.
Entry 1-The protagonists are the Hardy's and Chet. The antagonists are Posada, Mr. Ricardo aka. Manuel Bedoya, Posada's head spy, Rodriguez, Walton,Greber, and Decker. Entry 2-The setting is where t he case leads the sleuths. The point of view is third-person. The the,me is always suspect the worse.Entry 3-When Micro-Eye Has an internal security leak Frank and Joe pitch in on the mystery. They succeed in stopping Posada from getting the top secret American satellite camera.
When I was about 10 or 11, my mother signed me up for a book of the month club. Every month, I received two Nancy Drew or two Hardy Boys books. Every month, they were both read in a week and I was asking when the next book would be there!I thank my mother for recognizing and encouraging my love of reading.
or, 'The Hardy Boys vs. Fidel Castro', in which the people of Bayport are bad at geography, even worse at Spanish, Aunt Gertrude gets jungle fever and Mr. and Mrs. Hardy -still- aren't home.Theory: Fenton and Laura Hardy are, in fact, Lamont Cranston and Margot Lane. I'd dig that morally fraught crossover.
When the Micro Eye works on a special prodject that could benifit the whole country. There is a secrutiy leak and planed attacks on the organazation. THe Hardy boys jump on the case and even get to go to a small bunch of islands of the coast of South America.
GOOD!
Not my favorite Hardy Boys book. I couldn't really get into it. Oh well, theres about a hundred or so more of them that I may like!
