https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17650.The_Robber_Bride
The end of any history is a lie in which we all agree to conspire." And I have to admit that closing this novel, I thought that was the end of it.
She walked away, lost interest in me for bigger prey, but I remained paralysed in front of her image.What is it that makes genuinely good and caring people fall for evil characters, bow to their charisma, do their bidding despite themselves?
And as long as storytelling is eternal, there will be no end:"The end of any history is a lie in which we all agree to conspire."THE END!
It was like a Lifetime movie without the benefit of Tori Spelling and a fun, melodramatic plotline.
It's not so much the existence of Zenia or the other protagonists that I find unbelievable but that three women would all behave in such a simpering way towards men who, apparently, don't need much more than mystery and a nice rack to destroy a stable relationshp to go jetting off with some woman they hardly know.
I'm not sure which is more insulting: her depiction of women as simpletons or as men as witless fools.
Men are stupid." In The Robber Bride we get a peek into the lives of three women: petite academic Tony, new age, delicate Charis, and gregarious, fashionable Roz; the histories of their marriages, their childhoods, and their current day-to-day experiences in 1990s Toronto, are fascinating.
At first I worried this novel was a little too cartoonish in its depiction of Tony, Roz, and Charis, but as the story went on, all three women gained depth.
Reading this, I did think the relationships between men and women, as Atwood depicts them, feel a bit dated--there's a generational gap.
There's a real, uncrossable chasm between men and women in this book, which feels foreign to me.
This novel is amongst my favourites by Margaret Atwood so far because it deals with something that is relevant to everyone.
It deals with Zenia, a woman who has poisoned several lives and basically destroyed Tony, Charis and Roz, the three main characters.
We all have this kind of person in our lives; however, the thing is that Zenia is extreme, and it's very interesting to go back in time and learn about what she has done to these three women.
I, for one, was a fan, and this book has gotten me interested in reading much more by Margaret Atwood.
4 αστεράκια γιατί απλά το θέμα δεν ήταν τόσο δυνατό όσο άλλα βιβλία της Τρεις γυναίκες ...χαροκαμμένες και μια κλέφτρα κίσσα που τους πήρε τους άνδρες.
Οι σχέσεις των δυο φύλων, η κοινωνική θέση τους, η πάλη των θέλω, το αέναο κυνήγι της ευτυχίας (Μέγα ερώτημα: ποιος από όλους τους χαρακτήρες ήταν τελικά ο πιο ευτυχισμένος;)Το βιβλίο γράφτηκε το 1990 και ίσως πλέον να μην είναι τόσο επίκαιρο, δεδομένου ότι στα περισσότερα θέματα οι γυναίκες έχουν ξεπεράσει τις πεποιθήσεις των παλαιότερων ετών (χμ...
Charis, Roz and Tony: Three very different women, leading three very different lives – what binds them together is their shared history attending the same college and their shared experiences of a fourth – the dangerous, enigmatic and poisonous Zenia and the part(s) she plays in all their lives.In the hands of a less accomplished author than Margaret Atwood – such a foundation as this for a novel would undoubtedly have resulted in something clichéd, pedestrian though sensationalist and ultimately two-dimensional to say the least.
But that is the thing about malevolent forces – they are agents of change, and sometimes what seem like evil changes bring about good outcomes.I don’t want to ruin this book for you if you are thinking of reading it.
And Atwood does exactly this with her readers in this book – and it is a fascinating device.I really like stories that are based on fairytales – though, with smart writers I sometimes struggle with the allusion back to the tale itself, which I assume must be there.
Thus I was emotionally invested enough with this story to not care about whatever contrivances of plot, character, and other components of fiction the author chose to utilize in crafting their work.This book did not pull that off.
What both that book and this have in common is the subsuming of the entire story in the viewpoint(s) of one or many female characters, one which looks out on a world from a perspective well-adjusted to the expectations of men and woman, and finds within its gaze a female who chooses to break these ideological standards and use them as tools for her own gain.
-All three of the main female characters (Tony, Roz and Charis) were awful, I hated their misogyny and their relationships with and attitude towards men.I wasn't sure which one of the three protagonist irritated me the most, Tony with her molly coddling and servile attitude towards her husband, Roz with her sexist and judgemental attitude of women, or Charis with her patheticness.On the whole the female characters were either simpering martyrs, judgemental-female-hating twits, absolutely bonkers, complete doormats or evil-opportunistic-soulless-whores.-The male characters were no better than the female, they were all so weak and slimy.
-Loved getting to know about Zenia and how she wormed her way into Tony/Roz/Charis's life by lying, charming and manipulating them.
Not that the ‘victims’ here are diseased – but more like their particular psychologies, pasts, experiences have left them exposed and lacking any immunity to the disease that Zenia/the liar carries.That core vulnerability – the commonality between Tony, Roz and Charis – is their essential ‘goodness’: their natural, untainted proclivity to trust.
Atwood deliberately manipulates these nuances and layers of meaning, and our interpretation of them, as part of the story.
Reading a story is sometimes like looking in a mirror - we see ourselves reflected there; another deliberate choice of symbolism that Atwood uses.A lot of novels make me cry.
Another very enjoyable longish novel from Atwood, perhaps a little too melodramatic at times to rank with her very best work.The book has four main female characters, who met at college in Toronto in the 60s.
All of them are affected by and haunted by Zenia, a mysterious and charismatic femme fatale who has seduced all if their partners and exploited all of them in other ways.
In the end Zenia becomes something of a caricature but the book is much more about the other three, all of whom carry the scars of childhood traumas.The book has five main parts.
Well a hard headed woman, a soft hearted man been the cause of trouble ever since the world began. Oh yeah, ever since the world began He listens to Elvis with half an ear as he finishes the last few pages. He'd felt worried when his wife told him he should read it. The Fay Weldon, last year... that had left him feeling disquieted. But this one was different. He wonders if Margaret is a lady or a woman or a babe. He guesses he'd better call her a woman. Privately, though, he's decided she's a b
Well a hard headed woman, a soft hearted man been the cause of trouble ever since the world began.
He wonders if Margaret is a lady or a woman or a babe.
Women know there's only twelve kinds of men in the world, and they get a bit tired of it.
I know that because I'm the kind they tell things to.
He knows what women think of men.
Most of Margaret's sly criticisms are familiar, and sometimes they sting a little.
He won't admit that he lets his wife take care of the dirty jobs.
The one Margaret really hates is Jezebel, not the men.
It's basically all about how three incredibly amazing women, so smart and strong and capable within themselves, are brought down and nearly destroyed by a fourth woman, through her attack on their common weak spot: the men in their lives.
The exotically, impossibly beautiful Zenia systematically targets each woman, imposes upon her generosity for a time, then vamooses with her man and a great deal of money.
This book would have me be believe all women are untrustworthy—especially those posing as my friends—and that the only way to deal with men is to condescend to them, mother them, hide from them the true goings-on in my mind and the world.
I'm in several minds about this book, because I am head-over-heels in love with Cat's Eye by same, and a lot of this reads like Cat's Eye shifted a couple of spaces to the left.The reason I love Cat's Eye so unreasonably is, and it's time to stop pretending this isn't true, primarily because of some things that happened in my life sometime between (approx.) my sixth and seventh readings (though I use the term 'reading' loosely) of it, and so my love for it is all bound up rather painfully with all sorts of other things.
But everything in this is like a slightly bigger version of the things in Cat's Eye.It's too early in the book - not even halfway - for me to be saying this, but I do.
atwood's splendid deconstruction and then reconstruction of the ties that can exist between women is one of her more pleasurable novels.
it is full of fascinating references to fairy tales; discovering the parallels to rapunzel, sleeping beauty, and cinderella (to name just three) is an ongoing delight and the title character herself is so mysteriously poisonous yet malleable in her many faces that she becomes almost mythic.
atwood knows how to write characters who live and breathe, who think thoughts that are so true to life yet who still manage to surprise the reader with the decisions they make.
Because, I'm trying to pretend evil women don't exist.
Zenia is obviously an exaggeration...but women and girls do awful things to each other.
All the time.Back in school, I was horribly bullied by girls.
Why do I pretend those things didn't happen?
They're jerks.Thank you, Margaret Atwood, for telling the truth.And, now that I have, maybe I can get some sleep!Original review:This book became more and more engrossing as I went along, and I kept changing my mind about it.
Here, we're introduced to four women: Tony the detached intellectual, Charis the sensitive earth mother, Roz the hardy businesswoman, and Zenia the femme fatale.
She has before." The story of three women - Tony, Roz, and Charis - who are friends thanks to their separate involvements with a woman they all knew at college.
Unlike other female writers, whose books are usually along the lines of Men Ruin Everything For Us (I'm looking at you, Joyce Carol Oates), Atwood takes a different tactic.
So in a nutshell, here's my point: Joyce Carol Oates frequently uses men as the reason for womens' problems (*coughBlondecough*) and clearly thinks they are naturally evil.
Margaret Atwood, on the other hand, knows that women are a million times crueler than men can ever hope to be.
She'll tell outrageous lies - cancer, rape, nothing is off limits.
Zenia is after the women and she uses men to hurt them.
An "aphid of the soul." The Big Bad Wolf - in female form, because Roz's blazing twin daughters have demanded that all stories have only female characters.
When she tells them the story of the Robber Bridegroom - a woman's fiance plans to kill and eat her - they demand it be changed to the Robber Bride.
Zenia is one of Atwood's best villains and one of literature's best villains.

This book has become comfort reading me -- there's no telling how many times I've read it. Atwood has a remarkable skill for revealing how her characters think, which is a separate facet of characterization, so different from describing a character's personality or way of life. Of all the fascinating women in this book, Tony is my favorite. I identify not with her personality, but with the way she thinks.
3,5 :η πρώτη μου Ατγουντ.... Και μετα ήρθε ο έρωτας
With every book I read of Ms. Atwood's, my appreciation of her storytelling talent increases: her ability to construct metaphors that are spot-on and utterly unique; her genre-busting way of writing that defies pigeon-holing (though, it seems, many critics try to pin the "feminist" writer label on her); her method of describing her characters in a hyper-realistic and believable way.
"The Robber Bride", while not without its faults (long-windedness, for one) is to me her best work.
Sorta-kinda loosely based on Grimm's "The Robber Bridegroom", Atwood turns the fairy tale on its head and comes up with a fairy-tale-esque story of her own, one grounded in reality, yet fanciful enough to be a delight to read.
Two thoughts that came to me as I read this book:1) Catherine Zeta-Jones would be perfect as Zenia!2) Is this a re-telling of the 3 Little Pigs?For the first 10-20% of this book, I wasn't sure if I'd enjoy it.
I loved the three women and their tales of their experiences with Zenia.
It seemed to me Zenia was not so much the villainess of the piece, but a natural disaster that had to be survived.
Also, they (the women) had to get a point where Zenia no longer had any power over them.
Un cancro, deciso a succhiare via ogni goccia di energia vitale nelle sue vittime prima di estinguersi.Non credo che non si possa fare altro che desiderare la distruzione di Zenia, il suo annullamento, durante la lettura.
Tuttavia, il romanzo si chiude con una domanda molto gelida: forse Zenia non assomiglia un po' alle altre tre?
Bel dubbio.Un altro bellissimo romanzo della Atwood (ma quale non lo è, alla fine dei conti?), coinvolgente da morire e ben strutturato nel parlare di tanti diversi temi sociali nelle storie personali delle protagoniste.
But in 1985 our heroines are finally well rid of her when Zenia dies and they attend her funeral.
She has a way with descriptions like no one else and her stories are so original.
Atwood inserts flashbacks within flashbacks like nobody's business and the present day story grounds the novel.
I cared deeply for all three women and I loved the sisterhood they developed in the face of Zenia.This book expertly moves from the emotional to the absurd to the fable-like to the hilarious.
This story is deeply moving and very funny.
I feel like I lived several lives reading it.
Because she takes what made Tony, Roz and Charis good women and uses it against them.I used to know someone very much like Zenia.
I’m sure you’ve met someone like that too.“The Robber Bride” is the story of three women: Tony, the quiet academic, Roz, the brassy business woman, and Charis, the quiet New Ager.
Kind of like discussing dating with my aunt: both of us think the other one is from another planet.The way Zenia haunts the trio is fascinating, because she knows exactly what will make those women tick, she appeals to what they feel to be their better qualities and uses it against them like a weapon.
However, the narrative does not stop there it also takes the reader back further into the past and we witness the horrors and disappointments of their childhoods.
Due to their negative pasts Tony, Charis and Roz have created another self and each woman has a split personality of sorts, which helps them deal with their lives and themselves as individuals.
The character of Zenia is a mystery, she tells three different tales of her childhood,and lies and manipulates with such ease.
The Robber Bride is a wonderful novel the about rich inner lives of woman and the conflict fought in everyday life and not just on the battlefield.
یک رمان 700 صفحه ای جذاب و قابل تامل از یک نویسنده ی زن و روایتی حول حوادث زندگی سه زن با شخصیت های متفاوت (تونی،کرز،رز) که هر سه با حوادث متفاوتی با زنی جذاب به نام "زینیا"در ارتباط هستند.این داستان پر از زنان و دغدغه ها و مشکلات آنها است و همه ظاهرا از حیله ها و شرارت های یک زن ضربه خورده اند.
وقتی نگاهت می کنند زن بودنت را می بینند, با خود می گویند:«مثل من زن است, چی شده که این قدر خودش را گرفته؟» هیچ کدام از کلک های جنسی آنها در تو اثر نمی کند و هیچ کدام از کلک های تو هم در آنها اثر ندارد ...
Η κύρια ιστορία είναι το ξεδίπλωμα της ζωής των ηρώων σε τρεις διαφορετικές χρονικές περιόδους και την επιρροή που είχε σε αυτές η Ζένια, η αντί-ηρωίδα μας.Η Ατγουντ επέλεξε να δημιουργήσει τρεις ηρωίδες τις οποίες η φεμινιστική «επανάσταση» τις άγγιξε μονάχα επιφανειακά και που κατά την διάρκεια της ιστορίας με έκαναν πολλές φορές να θέλω να τις ταρακουνήσω για να ξεκολλήσουν από την λούπα στην οποία ζούσαν.
The only thing they have in common is that they all despise a fourth woman named Zenia, who had tragically died in an explosion in Lebanon, five years before the novel begins.Supposedly.Atwood doesn’t explicitly reveal the reason they hate her so much at first, although you’re pretty sure it has something to do with boyfriend or husband stealing and something to do with some other vague bitchy stuff that women get tangled up in, but…ummm?
Giving each woman her turn, Atwood devotes a huge chunk of the middle of the novel to explaining each woman’s background, her childhood and how those things laid the framework for the kind of person she would grow into being as an adult.
