https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129620.Once_and_Always
She excuses him, fucking daydreams about it (because that was so passionate you know) and even more, feels GUILTY for it, first because she thinks that it's a normal behavior to have (the girl is so naive that's not even funny) and then because she is afraid that HE will think less of her because she LET him kissing her.
"Don't struggle!" he said through clenched teeth, "you're hurting me.""You're hurting me, Victoria chocked, her lips less than an inch from his.Now tell me at what fucking moment I am supposed to swoon.
LOVED IT AGAIN, THE SECOND TIME AROUND*********************ORIGINAL REVIEW, on first reading ... "Loving someone who doesn’t love you is hell! Don’t ever let anyone convince you that you can be happy with someone who doesn’t love you" Words of wisdom from Papa!Quick question before I do my review - Why, oh, why do a lot of you NOT read Historical Romance? You are missing out on such a great genre. I know some of you like your dark, gritty reads but you can do both. I like, SUSPENSE, M/M, ROMANTI
LOVED IT AGAIN, THE SECOND TIME AROUND*********************ORIGINAL REVIEW, on first reading ...
Don’t ever let anyone convince you that you can be happy with someone who doesn’t love you"
Words of wisdom from Papa!Quick question before I do my review - Why, oh, why do a lot of you NOT read Historical Romance?
Dorothy goes to stay with her Grandmother but because of a family falling out, Grandmama does not want Victoria to stay with her so she must stay with another cousin.I must say, I loved Victoria.
I neither expect nor want your love, Victoria.”
So Charles pretends to be incredibly sick, bribes to doctor to tell Victoria that he's on his deathbed, and then extracts a PROMISE that she will marry Jason.
While the first half of this book is increasingly puzzling and strange, with Jason treating Victoria as a friend, an older brother, and a jealous lover all within the span of a chapter, it is bearable because you think the second-half will be better.
In between all this, Victoria tells Jason that she loves him and although Jason treats her coldly all day, only interacting with her at night and never expressing his feelings for her, he MAKES her tell him those words every time they have sex.
5 ALWAYS STARSThis is one book that I really don't care what others say, IT ROCKED FOR ME!This was the amazing love story of Victoria and Jason.
(hide spoiler)]This was the hardest part for me to accept but since it was a very common believe (view spoiler)[ that congical rape does not exist because a woman is never allowed to refuse her husband,  (hide spoiler)] so it seemed accurate.Just not very pleasant to read about...at all.
I fell in love with Tory and Jason and was praying so hard for them to make it work.
The one that started my chemical embalance towards everything historical romance...
'Read, who the hell has time for that!' She started telling me about certain books she has read, and when I heard it was romance that was her genre of choice, it took all my strength, to refrain from laughing out loud.
(or read me, rather) I was 120%, utterly, shamefully, completely wrong in my views of the historical romance genre, and it's readers.
I tend to get carried away) You must read all of Ms.McNaughts Historical romances.
These are what Historical romance is all about!!
5 STARS ❤❤❤❤❤OH... HOW I LOVE THIS BOOK!!![image error] And yet another masterpiece of historical romance. And what an emotional roller coaster ride it was. The passion and the angst are just dripping from every page. I was completely sucked into the story from beginning to end. These books… words cannot express my love for them.   “Don’t ever let anyone convince you that you can be happy with someone who doesn’t love you. [image error] Victoria Seaton was born and raised in Portage, New York in
With no family left in America, and no immediate marriage prospects, Victoria and her younger sister, Dorothy are sent off to England to live with distant relatives there.
But, things did not go so well with her dark and broody cousin, Jason, the Lord of the estate, who couldn’t be rid of her fast enough.[image error]
So when he read in the paper, his apparent betrothal to his young cousin, Miss Victoria Seaton, he was not only shocked, but completely enraged by the rumor.
I loved this one when I first read it, oh, about 18 years ago...give or take.
I still liked it but the constant misunderstanding, Victoria's wishy-washiness, Jason's cruelty grated on me.
For example, Victoria's penchant for putting herself in danger would have been fine with me years ago, but now, oh my gawd!
And Jason Fielding felt unnecessarily cruel to me.Still, I enjoyed this one.
Reading this again gave me a sense of nostalgia of the good old days where heroines were special snowflake Mary Sues and rapey heroes roam romancelandia.
If I had read this one now, I definitely would've hated it.
I especially liked all the interactions with the ton!What I didn't like was Jason's abominable treatment of Victoria.
To be honest, I couldn't fathom what Victoria saw in him.There were also some loose ends.
And the poor guy had done nothing wrong but was left heartbroken.
(hide spoiler)] The book ends in a way that makes you sure that the next book will be her sister's but it isn't.
There was also too little groveling on Jason's part IMO, and there was too little time before the end.
I wasn't sure they had resolved all their issues and was on the path of HEA when the book ended.
Hate me all you want, but this story was utter bullshit to me.
Before you slit my wrists and burn me at the stake, I want to make it clear that this is based on how I feel about the story.
My opinions do not invalidate yours, so if you can't tolerate negative comments about this book, by all means don't read this review.)Manipulation.
These are definitely elements of a great romantic novel, right?
RIGHT?Holy fucking shit, man.
Thank God my pal Alienor wrote a comprehensive review.
You can check it out here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Now if you'll excuse me, I have to go to therapy or something.
As is her ability to reveal all the layers of the soul, bit by bit until discovery and redemption are not only found but felt.As with all things, with great gifts come great responsibilities, however.
If we, the readers, are drawn into the heart of a tortured soul, we need also be allowed to experience the process of redemption with him/her (ipso facto the romance part) In "Once and Always", I don't believe we were adequately given that.
Jason is a deeply tortured soul who treats the innocent and kind-hearted Victoria despicably, using every cruel method he can find to push her away, while shackling her to him at the same time.
3  stars – Historical/Regency RomanceThis is my first McNaught read and it certainly twisted my emotions. I admired the heroine’s kindness, strength, and fortitude, but the hero was an utter, unforgivable ass. Yes, he suffered a horribly abusive childhood, a manipulative first wife, and agonizing grief, and for that I understood his cynical, detached coldness. But Jason’s continual abominable treatment of Victoria and the repeated misunderstandings were exasperating and exhausting, and he just n
3 ½ stars – Historical/Regency RomanceThis is my first McNaught read and it certainly twisted my emotions.
I admired the heroine’s kindness, strength, and fortitude, but the hero was an utter, unforgivable ass.
Yes, he suffered a horribly abusive childhood, a manipulative first wife, and agonizing grief, and for that I understood his cynical, detached coldness.
I wanted a lot more groveling on his part, and it definitely needed an epilogue.
Overall it was an emotionally wrenching, although not totally satisfying read, but I’ll definitely check out more by this popular author.
3 ½ stars.
3.75 ✭I have so many feelings about this book: nostalgia...anger...disappointment...heartache...happiness...longing.First let me say this is a reread for me.
(view spoiler)[ It is reasonable to believe that Jason cheated on Tory shortly after they are married.
(I actually think Jason did too) (view spoiler)[She was told it was what "considerate" nobleman did in England: they had mistresses so wives wouldn't have to suffer the 'baser' needs of men beyond securing an heir.
And just to throw it out there...I was also disappointed he kept seeing his mistress(a couple lightly graphic scenes) after he kissed Tory for the first time.
Me ha gustado mucho.La reacción entre los dos protagonistas es llamativa desde el principio. Muy chula. Y aunque la frialdad de él me ha sacado de quicio sobre todo al final, se lo perdono. Que todos, familiares, criados, amigos, etc, movieran sus hilos para que la pareja "cuajara" es uno de los puntazos del libro.Y engancha tela....
***Revised Version of Earlier Review*** Rate: 5+ starsThis is my second Judith McNaught book and I loved it just as much as I loved the first. After reading one of her contemporary romantic suspense novels and now one of her historicals, I have to say I'm blown away by the talent she has for switching between genres so beautifully. Usually an author's style of writing limits them to a certain genre and when they try to change genres it usually isn't that effortless... but wow. Judith McNaught i
What I loved most about this book was the heroine, Victoria.
Although I would probably warn away readers who are sensitive to cruel behaviour from a hero because Jason just might hit a nerve, but I, for one, had truly forgiven him for any of his past harshness after his reaction to Victoria's 'accident'.When Mike Farrell left, Jason stretched his hand toward Victoria's cloak, his fingers slowly closing on the wet wool, pulling it toward him.
I love the ride Judith McNaught takes her readers on in her books and the eventual satisfaction she gives them.
Y es que además tenemos personajes secundarios que valen su peso en oro, por ejemplo tenemos al “tío” de Victoria que me hizo reír a más no poder con sus ocurrencias.Sobre los personajes principales me encantó de principio a fin su historia, con su romance, con su emoción, ternura… y también me hicieron sufrir.Victoria Seaton es inocente en casi todos los aspectos y se entienden muchas de las cosas que hace, y es que la sociedad inglesa difiere mucho de la americana y la pobre pues no tiene ni idea de nada, pero poco a poco irá afilando las uñas.Jason Fielding es otro cantar, es el típico hombre inglés, donde se hace lo que el marido propone.
The relationship between Jason and Victoria just rubbed me wrong.
By that time, I was convinced that he was such an ass that nothing about the events leading up to his relationship with Victoria were going to change my mind.
(view spoiler)[ It never says that Jason is going to give up his mistress.
(hide spoiler)]Quite honestly, I felt worse for Victoria than anyone, and I felt like she never really got her fair share of apologies.
(hide spoiler)] What the actual fuck?!?!Obviously, I still enjoyed the book to an extent.
Después de varios libros de contemporánea tocaba volver al romance histórico y no puedo haber acertado más con la elección, gracias a "A la cama con un libro". Mi primer libro de esta autora me ha encantado y dejado con ganas de más. Entonces, ¿por qué no darle las 5 estrellas? Por algunas acciones de Jason, que aunque entiendo que eran algo considerado como normal en la época en que transcurre la acción para mí son imperdonables, y el poco juego que saca la autora al prometido americano de la protagonista. ¿Tanto amor para irse así, sin más?
But her free-spirited charm, kindness and sharp mind begin to weaken his resolve from the first moment he meets her.Victoria has sworn to never marry for anything but love and the arrogant Jason Fielding is the last man she would ever consider marrying, especially since she's already met the love of her life back home in America.Circumstances change though when she gets word that Andrew, the man she thought she'd spend the rest of her life with, marries someone else and the ailing Charles Fielding makes her promise to marry Jason.
But Mcnaught won me over with Victoria- she charmed the mean Jason Fielding out of his arrogance and me right along with him.
I simply loved it!!!
It contains everything I enjoy: sympathetic, vibrantly-realized characters (all of them, even the secondary ones); evocative writing that contains loads of humor, passion, and angst; and, of course, a memorable, swoon-worthy love that conquers all.I'm not going to rehash the plot or go into detail about everything that I like about this book, but what I love most is how much Jason loves Victoria, and how her love saves him from himself.
(hide spoiler)] So much so that he ends up hurting Victoria in a way that has infuriated some readers.
(hide spoiler)]He hurts Victoria in an awful way, but the author redeemed Jason in my opinion.
Last JM read for a while, my binge is over. :)))And as always she delivered a beautiful love story.
Nuestra reseña en A la cama con... un libro
But their future and happiness depends on how soon Victoria can make Jason see that when it comes to her, he would always get nothing but the purest of love.Once and Always is a wonderful novel to immerse yourself in, if you like romances that deliver a ton of angst that can make you tie yourself up in knots, even when you know that the inevitable conclusion would be a happy one.
But tame him Victoria does, and the result of course is a man whom you would indeed fall head over heels in love with.This is exactly why Judith McNaught is an author that remains unrivaled in her contribution to the world of romance.
Found this paperback treasure under my bed and decided to read it since it was a slow day at work and I'm working from home today.
Some of these older books with little or no explicit sex are still such a treasure.
The thing about this story is that, yes, Jason did rape Victoria the first time they had sex.
Of course now, the new readers of these books are finding this very distasteful, though I think the mindset of the romance genre back during the 80s found this somewhat acceptable hence the old term 'bodice rippers'.
I can't ever really get past a hero who rapes the heroine, especially as he did in this one, purposefully and in anger.
But is that any excuse to rape a woman?
And she just lets him treat her shabbily and waits for him to become the man she just knows he is deep, deep, deep down inside because of the assurances of his screwed up father and some friend of his she barely knows?
So the heroine, who might be likeable in another story, just seems like a doormat for this abusive man.I understand that the message is about the redemption of love, but shouldn't there be a limit to what a woman will endure?NOT McNaught's best by any means.
4 I found a new Historical Romance author!What an emotional read?!
I had no idea I was going to sucked into this rabbit hole.Once and Always is the first book in the Sequels series.
I wanted to like him, but he was very trying at times.
The book oozes tension and you will be rooting for the couple to figure it out and get together.I will admit it was slightly exhausting at times watching Jason and Victoria fight over misunderstandings.
I would have had more touching moments.Regardless, I really like the way the story was told.

The truth of the matter is, I didn't like this book...not until about 85%...and for a book to be just NOT GOOD for 85%, that's just too much.I will warn you that this review will contain some mild spoilers...or just spoilers that I'm not going to mark, but if you want to read why I would stay away from this story, read on.
Ugh. Just thinking about it makes my stomach churn.I'm all for a broken hero, but this guy was way beyond damaged.
When the hero of a story starts liking or falling in love with the heroine, they usually stop all instances of even looking at other women.
LOVED, LOVED, LOVED it!!!!!!
I must admit that when I read Ms. McNaught's stories I feel like I'm 6 years old again and my mother is telling me my favorit fairy-tales: all sighs and stars in my eyes!Her way of writing is so incredibly poetic and so powerful in its simplicity that I'm awed!The story is pure romance in a style that reminded me of Gone With The Wind: almost epic.Jason and Victoria together are fantastic in their love-war.
Jason is a fantastic ass, while Victoria is pure flame!
He didn't deserve that and I hope Ms. McNaught will write his own happy ending!
