https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16114.A_Dance_to_the_Music_of_Time
“War is long periods of boredom punctuated by moments of sheer terror.”-- old combat adageThe Third Movement (**FALL**) contains the following three novels: 1. The Valley of Bones (A Dance to the Music of Time, #7)  -- read June 19, 20162. The Soldier's Art (A Dance to the Music of Time, #8)  -- read August 16, 20163. The Military Philosophers (A Dance to the Music of Time, #9)  -- read August 22, 2016I read these three novels starting in mid June 2016 and ending August 22, 2016. I've hyperlinked to my original review for each book.
It seems summer will last… But autumn is already at the doorstep.“Think first, fight afterwards – th
Read on a bit more, though, and you will find him paying obvious and direct homage to Proust.Our narrator remains distant, never revealing much of himself, but by the end both more of a narratorial distance and less of a one has occurred: near the end Powell employs a number of times phrases such as "one feels", etc.
Perhaps the need for one to assert his distance had become imperative, due to an earlier paragraph detailing how and why Nick dislikes one of the re-encountered characters so immensely: the vitriol was particularly uncharacteristic, though completely justified.
He has a marvelous gift for being the hero of his own story in his own mind just like anyone else, without appearing to be for the reader.The Third Movement contains the books The Valley of Bones, The Soldier's Art, and The Military Philosophers, and together they cover the entire span of World War II.
Mrs Erdleigh examined the lines.So, how else could the Third Movement end but with Nick mustering out of the army at war's end, reflecting on all the old friends who are gone, and (view spoiler)[Pamela marrying Kenneth Widmerpool (hide spoiler)]?I'm going to take a break and read a few other books, then finish up this series with the Fourth Movement.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
This is a very strong 4 rating, with episodes that were higher. Some of the war minutiae occasionally seemed excessive but then Powell again would steer me to a place I hadn't expected, an insight well earned.full review to come...
They come together, they part, they come together again in the dance that gives its name to the series.The Third Movement - novels seven to nine of the series - covers WWII.
It commences with the narrator Nick Jenkins' enlistment in the army and ends six years later with his demobilisation.
Much of the emphasis is, as in the other novels, on the navigation of relationships between friends and family, between colleagues, between those who operate in political and social institutions.
My favourite scene is the detailed and evocative description of the Thanksgiving service at St Paul's Cathedral at the end of the war, in which Nick Jenkins plays a part.
Greatest novel in the English language, part 3. This is perhaps the movemement I most often think about, but they are all so good.
After a good 2,000 pages our hero Nick Jenkins shows himself capable of human emotion and actually cries.
Personally found the war more interesting as anticipated in volume 2 than as lived through in volume 3.
Given the enormity of historical events and Nick's extremely modest role, this probably can't be helped.
Nick's relationship with Widmerpool really is pretty extraordinary.
Nick is just the type of person to remain lifelong "friends" with someone he never particularly liked in the first place.
Out of good manners or just inertia.
Now that he's lost two genuine friends from boyhood, this obnoxious, slightly sinister buffoon also takes on a poignant aspect.
Childe Stringham to the Dark Tower Came, indeed.I was really looking forward in this volume to meeting Pamela Flitton, which the back copy announced as "one of the most beautiful and dangerous women in modern fiction." Goody!
Likewise, when the handsome South American major who arrives at the end of the war tells Nick that he has been in London before and stayed at the Ritz with his family, "a whole tribe of us," it's immediately clear that he was in the dark crowded group of South Americans dining at the Ritz in the 2nd book.
One critic compared Powell's Pamela Flitton with Cathy from Steinbeck's EAST OF EDEN.
Flitton is merely twisted, rather "flat" as a character, in my mind: a whore does not a Cathy make.
Clearly, Powell was not only an ardent student of books, music, art, and architecture; he was fascinated and well-versed in psychology and human behavior.
This is evident as he authenticates his suppositions, regarding character actions, by citing behavioral and social patterns of human beings and making plausible psychological conclusions.
Another lesson from this book, the senselessness of war and the random strikes of death it imposes, answering individuals' questions for Fate, before they can even be uttered.
The satire is never as harshly funny and bitter as Catch-22 and certain actions of characters that have devastating consequences are not fully developed but I suspect that is because war claims her myriad victims regardless and there is only vanity in thinking that your friend should have survived through different decisions when it just means someone else would have died in their stead.Nicholas, as noted, remains aloof, watching, and his wife a character more off-stage than on, a source of comfort but not reflection for her husband.
After six novels of getting to know all of the characters of Jenkins' aristocratic world, Powell replaces all of them with the new characters of Jenkins' military career.As I said, it took some time to get used to these new characters and to care about them in any way; but in true Powell fashion, nearly every character is memorable and by the end of the novel, the reader is left wanting to know more about them all.The Soldier's Art -- 3/5Good.
It's part of the overall narrative, and part of the development of Jenkins as a character, but it's nowhere near as engaging as the first six novels.
However, the middle 80pgs (roughly) of the novel are.When Jenkins returns to London, on leave, some of the old characters are seen again, and it's like welcoming back old friends.
A Dance to the Music of Time: 3rd Movement includes these three novels:The Valley of BonesThe Soldier's ArtThe Military Philosophers    The Valley of Bones heralds the beginning of the war and Jenkins' life in the military. We find Jenkins, a thirty something year old second-lieutenant in an infantry regiment trying to now adapt to the new rules and regulations  which now constitute his life in the military. We are also given more information about the life of Widmerpool who has managed to get p
A Dance to the Music of Time: 3rd Movement includes these three novels:The Valley of BonesThe Soldier's ArtThe Military Philosophers  
Brief appearances of some of the earlier characters make their way into this book but it is the introduction of a host of new characters who give a glimpse of the people caught up in the struggle for preparation for war.
A few of Jenkins' old friends, such as Moreland, also make appearances but mostly we are introduced to a new cast of characters to get to know.
The Military Philosophers introduced still more characters and takes us through to the end of the war.
Whereas in the first two movements characters seemed to be recycled, divorcing and marrying each other and cropping up in different contexts, in this movement the war forces them all into contact with a much wider social circle and class mobility shifts.
'It's chic to be killed', says one of the characters, and while this offhand comment seems distasteful, it's also true: the dead, whether civilian or military, did acquire a kind of heroism that was different to deaths from other causes.
The Fourth Movement will show Nick adjusting to civilian life again, I suppose...(And Widmerpool too.
In the third movement of A Dance to the Music of Time, Nick Jenkins, a bit too old to fight in World War II, jumps from army post to army post, where he struggles with bureaucracy, politics, and personalities in the sometimes bewildering hierarchy of the British Army.
World War II flashes by as the narrative focuses on the personal interactions of the upper class, as chance and circumstance take away lives, while others are introduced.
In the end, time progresses, and we are left with only impressions and brief interactions with the people we know and are closest to, with whom, however we try, inevitably slip away from us on the stage of life, where we remain alone, in a absurdly comic world.
Unfortunately the library did not have a complete collection of all four volumes of this series, so I had to read the Little, Brown publication for the first two movements, listen to the first two thirds of the third movement on tape, miss the last third of the third movement, and read the fourth movement from the University of Chicago edition.
I learned of this collection through a tribute to Powell's birthday (12/21/1905) on Writer's Almanac and its inclusion on the Seattle Public Library's reading list "British Classics".
Dance was originally published as 12 novels over a span of about 20 years, but they should properly be viewed as one long novel.
Instead he focuses on his friends and acquaintances from roughly 1920 to 1970.I'm now pretty close to the age Jenkins was at the end of these novels, and more than ever I'm impressed with how realistic these novels treat a 50-year span.
The people in it, no matter how eccentric or far removed from my own world (and many are very far removed), just seem palpably real, with one exception -- the central character Kenneth Widmerpool -- who's just a little too "novelistic" for me to credit fully.I read these novels about 30 years ago.
The nice thing about this book is that, unlike other novels written amid the war years, it doesn't focus on vivid descriptions of army tactics (such as those described in another war novel "War and Peace" by Tolstoy, which made it very boring at times) but actually focusses on the characters themselves.
This makes it much more readable and enjoyable.Some characters mentioned in previous "movements" pop up again: Farebrother, Stringham, Templer and his previous love-interest Jean.
Before reading this Movement, I would recommend reading the previous two first (there are three novels per Movement - all equally readable).
Much like the Depressionthe war is subtly in the background.'The Soldier's Art' examines the politics of 'upper management' as we watch the scheming,workaholic, Widermerpool, Jenkins sometimes friend and sometimes nemesis,manipulate his way through the Army ranks.The effects of war hits closer to home as a few of our friends are killed inbombing raids on London.
Much like stories about Jenkins wife, deaths are notreported with much emotion or sentimentality.'The Military Philosphers' covers to the end of the war.
Jenkins hasn't donetoo badly in rank and Widmerpool has achieved a prestigious position.
War deepens the story, perhaps at its best when it touches, sometimes tragically, the lives of those we've come to love. The style's so beautiful it can spoil others by comparison. Enter Pamela.
My favourite three books of the series. Widmerpool at his finest bullying best, Jenkins getting more and more boring and the only interesting female character in the book, Pamela Flitton.
To end that he winds up not on the front lines, which would probably have made this series at least four books shorter given the casualty rates in Europe, but basically on the homefront navigating the bizarre bureaucratic nightmare known as the military, where people seem to spend all their time scrambling around to get a whole lot of nothing done while convincing themselves everything is totally vital, once in a while reminding each other that people are off getting shot at somewhere.People who complained that the first six books in the series weren't so heavy on plot aren't going to be much more thrilled here, as all semblance of anything resembling a plot becomes almost jettisoned entirely, instead focusing on a variety of scenes from within the war effort, as Jenkins observes what changes war does to a person, dealing with both superiors and junior officers.
I read this volume over such an extended period of time I actually don't recall much of what came in books 7 and 8, but I did enjoy them and continued to appreciate Powell's characters and humor.
The 9th book, however, was difficult to get through and a big reason why it took me so long to get through this Movement.
Still a great series and I'm hoping to have time in my life to read it again.
On to Movement Four!
The Welsh regiment is not it, and at the end of The Valley of Bones, Jenkins finds himself becoming an aide de camp of Widmerpool, who has become the Q&A (roughly, the military police) of a division.
The strength of this series by Powell is that all the action above takes place in amongst three of four other developing storylines, including a rivalry between Widmerpool and a office at the same rank, a chance for Jenkins to get out from under Widmerpool's office, and the ongoing blitz of London.
Spiffingly delightful, from start to finish.
This third "movement" of Anthony Powell's long sequence A Dance to the Music of Time covers narrator Nicholas Jenkins' service in World War II, going from early 1940 at the beginning of THE VALLEY OF BONES to late summer 1945 in THE MILITARY PHILOSOPHERS.Soon after the war begins, Nicholas Jenkins is assigned as a subaltern in a Welsh infantry unit, which is immediately posted to Northern Ireland.
Widmerpool appears at the close of the novel, again performing his role as the antagonist of the series.In spite of some tragedies -- many characters we have followed to date are to perish in the War -- this is one of the most uproariously funny volumes so far.
Scenes of social gatherings at which she is present tend to leave her out, but I like to think that's because the narrative is actually a version of events agreed on jointly by Mr. and Mrs. Jenkins as discussed in the car on the way home.The last scene of The Military Philosophers is an end-of-war service at St. Paul's Cathedral.
I entered this third of fourth parts of Dance hoping that Powell might pry open the hinge to his narrator, Nick Jenkins', outlook on life.
Much of the time he serves in a military backwater that deals with nothing that impacts directly on the progress of the war itself.
His relations to his former friends drift in and out, his removed observations of his military superiors suggest a vast indifference to most human interaction.What did Powell have in mind here?
His presentation of both the war and Jenkins, enveloped in massive indifference, is obviously deliberate, but why?
The TLS review of Michael Schmidt’s ‘The Novel: a biography’ (Harvard UP 2014) tells me that in it Schmidt ‘damns’ Evelyn Waugh and Anthony Powell.
If I was cleverer I’d write it myself.So – Powell be praised, Waugh be half-praised, and Schmidt be damned.
There were times when, reading this book, I thought I might take off a star from my rating: the world of men at war, in particular men at war far from the field of battle, seemed at first so much less enthralling and scintillating than that of men (and boys) in school, at work, in society, in love.
And you realize that in the preceding three volumes Powell has been at work on more than just a complex and absorbing group portrait.
