https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/373399.Beyond_the_Blue_Event_Horizon
Robinette Broadhead struck it rich in his time as a Gateway prospector but is still suffering from the feelings of guilt at how his last mission ended.
Their mission is to fly to newly discovered Heechee outpost in the Oort Cloud and attempt to move it closer to Earth.
Broadhead and other suspect it might have been a food making facility of some sort and hope it can be used to ease the resources plight on Earth.
We got viewpoints from Broadhead, all four members of the family he sent to space, from a human boy who was discovered living on the Heechee facility, and even from a non-human!
Sin embargo, al llegar allí los tripulantes de la nave enviada por Broadhead se topan con que la Fábrica Alimentaria se encuentra habitada por un adolescente delirante que asegura mantener contacto con otras formas de vida y que de vez en cuando provoca una especie de locura colectiva a través de sus sueños.No es esta la única, pero sí quizá la más potente idea que sobrevuela las páginas de Tras el incierto horizonte.
Después del brillante y apoteósico final que remata la obra, no puedo contener las ganas de hincarle el diente al siguiente volumen de la saga y averiguar por fin qué más sorprendentes descubrimientos sobre los Heechee nos tiene preparados el gran Frederik Pohl.
"The story begins when the hero of Gateway finances an expedition to a distant alien spaceship that may end famine forever. On the ship, the explorers find a human boy, and evidence that reveals a powerful alien civilization is thriving on a transport ship headed right for Earth…"Beyond the blue horizonWaits a beautiful day.Goodbye to things that bore me.Joy is waiting for me.I see a new horizon.My life has only begun.Beyond the blue horizon lies a rising sun. (Beyond the Blue Horizon, Jeanette
(Beyond the Blue Horizon, Jeanette MacDonald)I wonder if Frederick Pohl had these song lyrics in mind with the title of this book?
Or whether he had any say in the title at all, a clever combination of the song title and the event horizon of a black hole, a consuming preoccupation of Robin Broadhead, the main protagonist.I found myself fully engaged in this novel from the first few pages—trying to figure out what the heck was going on.
Despite those chunky bits, this book carried me along very quickly.
I guess Pohl must have had a third book in mind and needed a platform on which to begin the next installment.
Totally loved it!!Lots of questions from Gateway are answered here, but in the end you have a lot a brand new ones - I'm looking forward to find out more about Heechee.P.S. Glad to see that Rob has become a much more likeable and mature character.
Not nearly the equivalent of Gateway but that would be like asking Ken Jennings to win 74 Jeopardy games in a row.
He did that.Speaking of Jeopardy, back in the 80's I was browsing through the credits of the TV game show and noticed that one of the show writers was Frederik Pohl.
The internet was still in its infantry and so was internet speak) "He's writing questions on a game show now!
I asked If I could meet Mr. Pohl and a man substantially younger than me (I was in my thirties) introduced himself.
Ha sido casi tan bueno como Pórtico, los últimos capítulos del libro se vuelven emocionantes y terminé dándole un 4.
Robin, ahora millonario por los eventos ocurridos en el primer libro, financia una expedición a una nave Heechee que funciona como una Factoría Alimentaria.
En este segundo libro se dan a conocer nuevas cosas sobre los Heechees y también sobre los motivos por los que Robin inició la expedición en primera instancia.
Es, sin duda, un gran libro.
Pohl es un maestro de la ciencia ficción.
Esta imagen parece ser el interior de una nave Heechee con ese azul tan característico.Imagen creada por Vidom
To me, if felt like much of this was written by a very horny fifteen-year-old virgin.On the other hand, the last three chapters of the novel, unfortunately telling much more than showing, took us on a whirlwind expansion of the entire universe.
It's worldbuilding and it's fascinating.So, as I said, had Pohl been able to incorporate those elements much sooner, and stayed away from the boring day-to-day minutae of Robin's life, and added more zip into the exploratory sections, I would have enjoyed the book.On a side note, it's stunning how dated this book has become, from the mentions of all the tapes still used in computers and video, to the one chapter that details a few seconds of the inner workings of one of the computer personalities ad nauseum.
Por un lado tenemos a Robin Broadhead, el que fuera protagonista de ‘Pórtico’, que financia una expedición hacia un artefacto Heechee, la Fábrica Alimentaria, que se encuentra en la nube de Oort, capaz de transformar ciertos elementos del universo en alimentos.
Y por otro lado, está la propia expedición y sus miembros, que llevan viajando tres años y medio para llegar a la Fábrica.
Ambas tramas me parecen interesantes, tanto lo que sucede con los artefactos Heechee, como lo que acontece en la Tierra con Robin.‘Tras el incierto horizonte’ (Beyond the Blue Event Horizon, 1980), del norteamericano Frederik Pohl, sin llegar al nivel de excelencia de ‘Pórtico’, me ha parecido una muy buena novela.
Continúa con las tesis principales que plantea en el primer tomo y gracias a que el punto de vista va cambiando nos permite conocer más detalles de los Heechee y de su tecnología.
También sabemos más sobre el protagonista, quien tiene una evolución del primer al segundo libro muy interesante.Y el elemento estrella vuelve a ser los programas informáticos que ayudan al protagonista en su vida diaria.
Al igual que en Pórtico conocimos a una especie de Sigmund Freud que le psicoanalizaba; aquí conocemos a la copia de Albert Einsten, su asesor personal que permite a Robin, y al lector, conocer todos los detalles necesarios para seguir avanzando en la trama.
Pohl here continues the Heechee saga with more of the same.
Some of the tech in the book is way beyond what can ever be reasonably expected to become reality and it seems to only get more and more speculative.Beyond the Blue Event Horizon is not too long, an easy read and quite entertaining despite all the flaws.
Although it makes no lasting impression it was just good enough to make me read part 3 of the Heechee saga, sometime, with no must reads on the shelf.
I first read the novel when it came out and I was barely an adult.
The character motivations make a good deal more sense reading it now from a more mature perspective.
It is well worth getting through the first three quarters of the novel featuring mostly character development (not a boring task by any means) to get to roughly the last quarter where great big awe inspiring vistas of time and space open up in ways only science fiction can achieve.
This is the good sense of wonder stuff I find so lacking in much of today's genre fiction.
This is concept-driven science fiction, and the mysteries of Pohl's Heechee universe are drawn out and fascinating.
This volume reveals the answers to a lot of concepts left hanging at the end of Gateway, regarding the nature of the Heechee artifacts strewn throughout the Solar System, while opening a small number of new ones.The book has grown somewhat dated in science and technology.
But truthfully, it would be a small adaptation to move from logging in to powerful central computers to networked local devices - and the mystery of dark matter remains unexplained in current physics.
It makes the book less groundbreaking than Gateway was and probably is part of the reason why it didn't win any of the awards it was nominated for.
The scope of it is obviously much wider too, and the many switches in point of view makes it appear a bit less structured than its predecessor.
If you view the story as the unveiling of (part of) a mystery, it makes more than enough sense to me.
In the end I guess I agree with many of the critics that it is not quite as good a novel as Gateway was.
That being said, it is a good science fiction novel in the classic sense.
-“Pórtico” no debería haber tenido secuelas para pasar a la historia como una novela todavía más grande de lo que ya es.- Género. Ciencia-Ficción. Lo que nos cuenta. Robinette Broadhead es un hombre potentado con unas inversiones muy sólidas pero sigue abierto a enriquecer su fortuna y, en el fondo, sigue amando a Klara y su recuerdo no le abandona. Cuando decide financiar una expedición a la Factoría Alimentaria heechee situada en la nube de Oort, desencadena una serie de acontecimientos de consecuencias importantísimas. Segundo libro de la saga de los Heechees.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://www.librosdeolethros.blogspot....
Given the riotous success of Gateway, I was surprised at how difficult it was to get a copy of this, the sequel (it's basically out of print).Having found a second-hand copy, the reason became clear: this book is a feeble shadow of its predecessor. Terribly disappointing, avoid.
review of Frederik Pohl's Beyond the Blue Event Horizon by tENTATIVELY, a cONVENIENCE - July 6, 2015 I read Pohl's Gateway 1st in this Heechee Saga.
"After more than three-quarters of a million years of rolling slowly around Earth;s very distant sun, the artifact pulled itself into a new orbit and surged away." (p 202) That may seem a bit too long-term to wrap yr head around but think of this: Mayflies have an average lifespan of 24 hrs & their lifespan can be as short as 30 minutes ( http://www.itsnature.org/what-on-eart...
Si Pórtico funcionaba muy bien apelando al sentido de la maravilla con esa civilización del todo desconocida, esta segunda parte parece aportar algo de luz a los misterios.
Entre los principales aciertos encontramos lo que rodea a las inteligencias artificiales, al personaje de Wan (que por desgracia casi desaparece en la segunda mitad de la novela) y sobre todo el diván de sueño, que aporta conceptos muy interesantes.
En conclusión, Tras el incierto horizonte supone una continuación que sabe mantener el tipo ante la mítica primera parte, da algo de luz a los misterios planteados y nos deja en ascuas para continuar con la tercera parte de la saga.
A little bit slower paced and more philosophical than first book in the series. Fortunately readers learn many new details about ancient Heechees.
W pierwszej części serii postawiono masę pytań, tu już na samym początku poznajemy - trzymając się "lostowej" analogii - "mieszkańca bunkra", czyli mamy typowo "hitchcockowskie" tąpnięcie, następnie poznajemy kilku nowych, jakże interesujących bohaterów, po czym akcja ślicznie zazębia się z wydarzeniami z pierwszego "Gateway" i na scenę powraca ten sam - a jakże inny - Robinette Broadhead.Jeśli już przy analogiach jesteśmy - to już w trakcie lektury tomu pierwszego - nie mogłem oprzeć się wrażeniu, że twórcy gier Mass Effect czerpali pełnymi garściami (cóż, a z czegoż to oni nie czerpali?, można spytać) z tegoż właśnie cyklu Pohla.
1. kitaptan farklı olarak bu kitabı daha iyi buldum denebilir.
Pohl bizi bu kitapta şaşırtarak 1.ci kitaptan beri gizemlerinin çözülmesini iple çektiğimiz Hiçi ırkının üstüne beklenmedik şeyler de servis ederek, asıl bombanın bir sonraki kitaplarda olacağının sinyalini veriyor.
Kitabın ilk kitaptan farklı olarak yeni karakterler sunuyor ve olayları onların gözünden yaşama şansını bize veriyor.
Bu daha aktif bir sunum olarak okuyucuya geri dönüyor, sıkılmadan dikkat dağılmadan okutturuyor kendini.Son 30 sayfada daha bir güzelleşen kitap, bu güzelleşmesini aslında sonunu çok iyi bağlamasına değil de, bazı bilimsel teorileri kitaptaki olaylarla birleştirip, bize "hard sci-fi" hazzını aslında çok da ağır olmadan damarlarımıza enjekte etmesinden kazanıyor (Bir K.

The sequel to Gateway, I think Pohl has done a much better job with this one. (Of course, I have issues with books that leave all kinds of questions unanswered anyway, which Gateway did.) In this book many of the questions left dangling are answered in the first book, even if only in summary form and in ways that raise all new questions. So, I guess I'll have to read the third book. [Sigh]Overall there's a solid plot with interesting themes and characters, well worth a look to those who like Sci-Fi.
The Heechee setting keeps being fascinating. All the technology and contacts with the lost civilization are extraordinary and highly immaginative. The background story with Robinette and the Herber family keeps being repetitive and a bit boring sometimes, but it is a nice counterpart of the exciting discoveries from the Heechee.And having Albert Einstein as a scientific adviser is genius!Will keep reading the saga for sure.
There's plenty of drama and action in this sequel, though it's not done as subtly and elegantly as the story in Gateway. There are a lot of answers about the mysterious Heechee civilization in this novel, though there are almost as many more questions by the end. Great second installment of the series--it should be fun to continue the story in the next book.
Ah, yes, this book is terrible in a very good and cheesey way. I had to read it. Gateway was my gateway and I just wanted to know what on earth Pohl would do next.  This story would probably blow the mind of a 15 year old boy, but alas, it just seemed a wee bit overdone. Go Heechees!
Reseña completa: http://capitulo-26.blogspot.com.es/20...
Beyond the Blue Event Horizon picks up several years later, with Broadhead being very wealthy and no longer going on Heechee missions himself.Pohl has created a fascinating world that provides plenty of interesting questions about the ancient race that humanity has stumbled upon.
Here humans are still piloting Heechee ships with no idea of where they are going in the hopes of making discoveries and becoming wealthy.
Broadhead has sent a family to discover a food factory, and when they arrive they find a horny teenage boy that has been isolated on the spacecraft for fifteen years with only "The Old Ones" (mysterious entities) alive with him.
I have often thought about  Gateway  since originally reading it; it was a haunting premise and excellent world building, so I've put off reading the sequels for far too long. This book is different than Gateway in many ways. Because of the limited nature of the events of the book, the component of fear and uncertainty are much reduced. Since they're not relying much on Heechee technology, except the stuff that Wan already knows how to use, even the "apes poking the monolith" feeling is gone.Sti
since originally reading it; it was a haunting premise and excellent world building, so I've put off reading the sequels for far too long.
This book is different than Gateway in many ways.
Since they're not relying much on Heechee technology, except the stuff that Wan already knows how to use, even the "apes poking the monolith" feeling is gone.Still, this is an excellent next step in the exploration of this world.
Given the elegiac quality of the first book, this change is not terribly welcome, though it does free up some more exploration of the Heechee universe.
And, like the first book had the psychology sessions to make you want to roll your eyes here and there, in this book we have all the unecessary descriptions of Janine's and Wan's sexual relations, which are rather cringe-worthy and rather useless.
Unless it's the prelude for something in the next books, but by themselves do not account for much in the plot.Not the best SF book I've ever read, but I certainly enjoyed it and will be coming back for more.
Although this second book in the Heechee Saga is well-written (as you might expect from an SF Grandmaster), and chock-full of revelations about the mysterious alien Heechee and their technology, human struggles to learn that information and to survive, man-machine relationships, and a whole lot more, it may be overly full, and because of that, I'm not sure I'll continue reading the rest of the series.
Perhaps there were too many alien advances (and their technology too-easily deciphered by mankind) for me, the characters seemed a little thin, while the science lectures were too thick, and the bawdy humor made me cringe one too many times.
If you liked GATEWAY (and I did), you'll want to read this in any case, and make your own judgement.
