https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8822.Earthly_Powers
But it was yet another in the tedious catalogue of huge masculine overbearing egomaniacal penis novels about a Big Man like, say, I the Supreme or Illywacker or Gould's Book of Fish or The Book of Evidence or Mein Kampf - boy, there's a lot of em.
But really, wordsmithery and large braininess will not save a book from the wall-hurl.
The tone of voice was like the clench of rat-claws on a biscuit tin lid and I chose not to have that particular voice jabbering and gibbering and mewling in my ear for 600 pages.

The novel follows the life of Kenneth Toomey, eminent novelist and very closeted gay man.
To me, at least, once you actually bring the devil onstage, which he does not once but twice via two full-on exorcisms, then all question of good and evil goes out the window.
So, in the end, it turns out that Burgess's answer to the problem of good and evil is pretty much the same as the point of that old Chinese folktale whose other moral, by the way, is that we shouldn't try to change things because we can't tell whether the results of our actions will be good or bad.
The small number of Goodreads ratings is some evidence of that; A Clockwork Orange will always be the defining literary work associated with (prolific) Anthony Burgess.Twenty years after Earthly Powers, William Boyd was Booker longlisted for Any Human Heart.
There are obvious comparisons between the two books, and the two writers; Boyd is a much easier read, Burgess by far the cleverer.Earthly Powers is a novel structured around good and evil, incorporating certain specific historical events to illustrate the underlying philosophical debate.While Earthly Powers can be read as a novel with a strong overall theme, I found it mostly enjoyable as a series of only loosely connected stories within the whole:NazismA subject as extensively discussed as any other in the last seventy years.
Besides, I am incapable of doing it justice, so I won't try.As Paul Theroux writes in the book's Introduction, "It is such a pleasure to see such a grand edifice of intelligence, humor, ambition, and imagination, that it is impossible on reviewing it to appear less than rapturous."Here is Burgess' purpose for the book, as stated within by his main character, the author Ken Toomey: "I can't accept that a work of fiction should be either immoral or moral.
To the extent that Burgess takes anything seriously he seems to be writing some sort of extended tribute to the Catholic church.
Burgess never once tackles the horrendous failures of the church, in the ancient world, the medieval world, or in modern times.
And needless to say, for all the hero's disgust with homosexuality, he never so much as hints at the existence of sexual deviants within the Church itself.EARTHLY POWERS is a big, sloppy book by a man who knows he's lying and knows he can get away with it.
One of the best first sentences I've had the pleasure of reading: "It was the afternoon of my eighty-first birthday, and I was in bed with my catamite when Ali announced that the archbishop had come to see me."Unlike many Big Books, Earthly Powers is a treat throughout. Burgess's Joycemania is on full display but seldom gets out of control.
Nogal een binnenkomer, wat de ik-figuur ook weet: hij is schrijver, naar eigen zeggen een vrij slechte en bovendien een gepensioneerde maar toch, en hij stelt: "Niettemin zult u moeten concluderen, als u mijn werk een beetje kent en even de moeite neemt die eerste zin te herlezen, dat er nog niets mankeert aan mijn gewiekstheid in het bedenken van wat men noemt 'een pakkende openingszin'.

That's cause this sucker is DENSE - no book for someone looking for an easy read.The narrator, Kenneth Toomey, is a British novelist, now in his eighties, looking back over his life.
Despite the fact that he is openly homosexual, officials from the Catholic Church want him to write for them - an account about the recently deceased pope, Gregory XVII, or Carlo Campanati.
Both Toomey and Campanati are brilliantly realized characters.
The arch, snooty voice of Toomey sells the whole book, as he relates the stories of his fame and notoriety.
Definitely one of the most unique and memorable books I've read this year.
I am a Burgess near-complete-ist, but haven't revisited him in over 10 years and... ~confession! Still haven't read the obvious clockworky one I know, I know~. ...and this blew my world away when I read it in the 90s, and it is sad that the AB oeuvre has very little academic activity to keep his name alive in the culture. Would love to re-read it with some peeps from round here though.
Within that account, Burgess locates his protagonist,Toomey, at some key moments of twentieth century history in order, it seems, to comment on those issues which consistently surface in all of Burgess’s fiction, particularly the nature of evil and its presence in the physical world.
The novel attempts to address issues of belief, and the role of religion in late twentieth century culture, using a broad cast of characters, fictional and real; it is not, however, a roman à clef.
Throughout the novel, the emphasis is on the debate about the nature of evil rather than on the accuracy or otherwise of the references to twentieth century figures.
He is, more or less, semi-Pelagian, obsessed with ecumenism, and insists on dragging the church into modernity; he's also charmingly human, stands against fascism and is an orphan.
If he didn't choose his sexuality, however, that's ipso facto evidence against the freedom that his friend the Pope insists (against the traditional doctrines of the church) we possess.
In addition to all this kind of thing Burgess piles on the laughs with groan-worthy puns, literary in-jokes (Toomey meets many of modernism's most important figures, despite being decidedly unmodernist), and occasional thoughts on the unreliability of memory and therefore of first person narrations...
I immensely enjoyed reading this book.
It being the first book I've ever read by this intriguing author, I'm looking forward to read his other works.
This is because the author was raised catholic and, while 'leaving' the church because of his homosexuality, never really gave up on it.
I suspect even native speakers might have trouble with some of those.The only negative point is that towards the end, the story seems to stall a bit and previous patterns are repeated.
So, in my opinion, the book could be a tiny bit shorter to make it perfect.
The most incredible thing about this book isn't that it flows for 650 pages with no stutter, it's not the perfectly-timed, respectfully delivered sucker punches, it's not the fact that the man has delivered a history of the 20th Century (on both a personal and wider scale).
I won't even touch on how infallible his character construction is or how perfectly formed each chapter is or how the text flows like liquid, more so than any other modern classic writer I've read.
re-reading a first edition now. i remember thinking this book was the most interesting, epic, intelligent book when i read it back in high school... we'll see what i think ten years later. Well, I'd probably still give it a lot of stars, very interesting, certainly entertaining, but maybe not as satisfying as I remember.
The part of the human totality concerned not with the business of living in the world but with values— those essences which we call truth, beauty and goodness.”Of Free Will ( liberum arbitrium):Man was defined by his capacity for moral choice, and the existence of evil in opposition to good was a guarantee of that capacity for free election.Of War and Suffering in history:But may we speak of waste, when so many men, and women too, were driven to acts of heroism, love and self-sacrifice that could never have been persuaded to emerge out of an era of peace and torpor?The Church teaches the slow working of God’s grace like yeast in the heavy dough of a human history that has been mostly hard to swallow.Of Original Sin:Original sin was original weakness, not being sufficiently clever, or Godlike, to spot the machinations of the fiend.Of Hell:“A soul at last aware that truth and beauty and goodness, as expressed in what we may call the personality of God, go on existing but quite beyond the hope of that soul’s being able to get at them.
Pronkerig en potsierlijk, hemels flikkerend soms, maar ook ennui tot de dood in lange passages met een overdaad aan verwijzingen.De verteller is onbetrouwbaar in het kwadraat, zo zegt hij zelf, want hij is oud en hij is schrijver.
Ons geheugen veinst slechts betrouwbaarheid en schrijvers gaan altijd voor het verhaal.
In theologische beschouwingen wordt gemijmerd over de aard van het kwaad en daar komt de Duivel zelf om de hoek piepen.
Bovendien worden er zo veel auteurs vermeld dat het vooral interessant wordt om op zoek te gaan naar wie niet vermeld wordt en waarom.
Sometimes I’m asked to list ‘the best gay novels ever’, and I often put this at Number One. Burgess isn’t thought of as a ‘gay writer’, although you don’t have to dig too far to figure out that he was at the very least bisexual.
Like all Burgess it’s extremely funny and erudite, but for once he really seemed to be writing from the heart, rather than in response to an interesting literary idea.
At his best – and this is his very best – he’s the greatest of the post-War English novelists.
Which must mean this is the greatest post-War English novel.
One of my top five my favourite books, Earthly Powers is, above all, a compelling bit of storytelling.
A sprawling, multi-generational tale that follows the protagonist's life from teenager to octogenarian and includes a number of real people such as Churchill and James Joyce.
It's the fictional autobiography of a gay, expatriate English novelist now living in Malta.
Most of the book is a series of flashbacks consisting of the bulk of the writer's life.
Using this architecture, Burgess comments on the nature of art: "All fiction is autobiographical and all autobiography is fiction".
I read this book the first time when I was twenty one, again when I was thirty and then a few years ago.
The book pushes together and plays with apparently conflicting, disparate areas, miracles, Catholicism, Hollywood, Anglicanism, religious cults, hidden lives, flamboyant masks, romantic love and exploitative sex, fanaticism and agnosticism.
I don't know if I will ever read it again, but if anything can counter the narrowness and thinness of current times, this is it.
Ken Toomey, the writer, hobnobbed with other expatriate literati on the Continent and was affected by, and sometimes affected, some of the great trends and events of the 20th century, including the rise of fascism in Germany and Italy, the second world war, the efflorescence of African nationalism, and the battles over free publication of controversial works.
The novel is largely the working out of Toomey’s own view of evil in light of the actions of the Church and the beliefs of the prelate.
In fact, there is a certain self-conscious literariness to this work, and those who like their novels filled with warm, realistic characters ripe for book group discussion should perhaps avoid it.
Burgess freely admits the fallibility of all of his characters while simultaneously underscoring the same issues discussed in other, more famous works of his: the presence of inherent evil in the human situation, the inherent imperfections of all political systems--be they Marxist or democratic, and the eternal struggle to identify with a God who allows evil deeds to continue through the humans he thought to create in His image.
Tie all of these issues in with the juxtaposition of a homosexual main character and his familial relationship to the Pontiff, and a novel emerges which demonstrates, more than anything, a quality of tension.Even though I thought I might give it up, I'm glad I persevered and stuck with Kenneth Toomey to the end.
Reading this book is like having an intelligent, overbearing person to a dinner party; one who insists on talking volubly on all topics, being a bit of a bore and wearing out the other guests.
It is undeniably colourful, and there are some wonderfully cheeky representations of famous authors like James Joyce and Ernest Hemingway who the protagonist, fictional author Kenneth Toomey, just happens to meet (he also meets many prominent Nazis).
Perhaps Toomey just has bad taste in lovers, but it's a portrait of homosexuality that is repulsive and spiteful.
The trouble is it drags on brutally - like that bore of a dinner guest I mentioned earlier.I'm sorry, I know this is a British classic.
Shooting for the moon, knowing it would fall back to earth, this is Burgess at the height of his considerable powers, spinning a lopsided globe with one hand and, well, trying not to laugh too hard. The impossibly lofty account of civilization's status, set in an inauspicious moment, at the end of the twentieth century. Haven't read since it was first published, but on the eve of a re-read -- an easy five stars.
A history of the world, practically, through the lens of one author. Interesting observations on religion, power, morality, and the creative process.
I may not be a great author like Burgess but I fully identify with the personal struggles he expresses in his writing; not so much the particulars of his struggle, but as a fellow neurotic who reacts in complicated ways to simple problems, especially if the simple problem has no clear solution.I sat down to read this with my only awareness of Burgess being that he wrote "A Clockwork Orange." I'd never read that title and had no clear expectations, so the experience was like opening birthday presents after a very successful party.
Read this damn book and read it now.
The sprawl of the book is consistent with the personality of its hero, Kenneth Toomey, a good but cynical man who wanders geographically, morally and artistically.
But the danger of the sprawl and the massive scope of the book is that sometimes is sprawls a bit too much and sometimes its reach exceeds its grasp.
Of course this is consistent with the personality of Toomey, but it isn't quite great art to illustre the personality defects of the hero by intentionally writing a slightly defective book.
Low-brow high-brow.I'm not ashamed to say (OK, actually I am, a little bit) that the narrator of "Earthly Powers" and its author are far too clever for me.
The latter trait I do not have, which made the narrator's frequent flashing of untranslated foreign languages an irritant (yes, it's one of my major pet peeves)."Earthly Powers" is a book to admire.
One doesn't have to love characters or even its narrator; there are many books with those characteristics that I like very much.
But there was something else about the books that made me enjoy them.
Honestly, I thought I would never finish Earthly Powers.
While I admire Anthony Burgess immensely as an author, this book was extraordinarily slow and dense.
I read it unbelievably slowly, and could only handle less than 50 pages a sitting before having to put it down.
The slowness is intentional, I think, but is still hard to handle.
One thing I did absolutely adore about Earthly Powers was the language.
Anthony Burgess manipulated the English language fantastically, in a happiness-making way.
The book does drag on though, and at points I simply didn't care about the storyline, which was unfortunate.
