https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/597308.Billy_Budd_and_The_Piazza_Tales
Herman Melville wrote Billy Budd for a specific reason: to satirize the “justice” modern society imposes upon its subjects.
Only throwing more logs onto the fire, Melville also spends ample time portraying Billy’s general innocent nature, which further complicates the major conflicts found in the novel’s climax.The style of Herman Melville’s Billy Budd is not unlike that of Moby Dick.
This being my first Melville classic (I do know a little about Moby Dick), I went in with an optimistic vibe.
Melville should receive kudos for his inventive work, but its higher caliber existentially makes the ranking of Moby Dick above Billy Budd understandable.
This is heavy stuff; my perception from historical accounts is that Melville was a troubled soul, wanting badly to be successful like his friend, Nathaniel Hawthorne.
There are in these stories inklings and phrases, snippets and passages that are brilliant (an overused word, but descriptive) and inspiring, and you wish those portions could go on forever.
I was left mystified at the end when the whole fanciful tale blew away like the autumn leaves.
I wish I could be so imaginative.
My favorite short story in this book is Bartleby, but I prefer not to speak about it.
We have lost something substantial about ourselves , our ability to understand and relate such understandings of the world through such a palpable decline in vocabulary.
Our world is dimmer, poorer.
We can do without that.I read this because I want to use it in my 11th-grade American literature course, but I'll likely skip a couple of the stories.
The miscellaneous stories, like the Belltower and lightning rod man, are very clever and will no doubt make for good discussions in class.
This is some good stuff, but considering it is Melville, that is not a surprise.
The Accessible Melville, poet of the inaccessibleThis volume in the Barnes and Noble Classics series contains the novellas "Billy Budd" and "Benito Cereno," the only slightly shorter "The Encantadas" and the stories "Bartelby the Scrivener," "The Piazza," "The Lightning-Rod Man," and "The Bell-Tower." The last six named were published together in 1856 as The Piazza Tales.
Far better to bask in the passage that gave rise to it, in this case a description from "Benito Cereno" of "nature taking her innocent repose in the evening, the screened sun in the quiet camp of the west shining out like the mild light from Abraham's tent."+ + + + + +I bought this book in order to answer a query about Benjamin Britten's operaBilly Budd, whose libretto was adapted from Melville by none other than EM Forster, working with the director Eric Crozier.
Bartleby is the most beautiful and sad thing ever. And holy shit, Benito Cereno.Billy Budd itself, boringest thing ever.
Read it a long time ago but some of the stories still sticks with me and I remember it being an enjoyable read, no reason I wouldn't recommend it to someone.
Dizzying and complicating. All the collected works here showcase Melville at his complicating best outside Moby-Dick itself.
As others have stated, Billy Budd was great (definitely my favorite of the bunch). A few others, like The Bell-Tower and Beneto Cereno stand out. The Lightning Man was cool. I wasn't as enamored with Bartleby as much as others were and I couldn't even finish The Encantadas (which was actually more like travel writing than story telling. Yawn). This May or may not be my last Melville book, we'll see.
I am not a Herman Melville fan and this book (a compilation of several of his short stories) did not change my mind. Melville's prose is dense. Each story is utterly depressing. Some of them don't even make much sense. (The final sketches on the Encantada Islands seemed to be a bunch of words thrown together.) I recommend this book only to those trying to read all the classics.
Bartleby the Scrivener is good stuff. completely absurd years before the notion seemed to have existed.
Nice edition with plenty of endnotes and trivia facts. I especially liked "Bartleby"
Billy Budd and Bartleby are good; Benito Cereno is okay; the rest are too amorphous and vague and should be avoided.
I liked it enough. My favorite in this collection is Benito Cereno.
Look, I like classics as much as the next guy, but -YAWN-
Billy Budd is tragic genius, the best thing I've ever read under 100 pages. Bartley and the rest are interesting but do not hold a candle to BB.
