https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38389488-the-reckoning
It has been a while since I have read a Grisham.
It combined my many book loves, a legal story, a mystery, which is really at the heart of this book, and a look back to a terrible time in history.
Hard to read, but well researched, well written, the merciless Japanese and Bannings time in the military.
This was a book I couldn't put down, it just pulled me into the story of this family, and of course I needed to know the why.
In this book I feel as though Grisham has out done himself.
Yes, I admit that I've been faithful to Grisham for years, and yes, I was rewarded again .... The Reckoning is a novel very much different from what I expected BUT once I started reading, I couldn't put this book down. I immensely enjoyed the story but I'm especially grateful to Grisham for remembering the plight of the American soldiers during the war in the Pacific .....
It was racist, sexist, and most damningly - boring.
If Grisham wanted to write a book about the horrors of the Pacific theater during World War II he should've just written that book, but those chapters merely served to point out the lack in substance in the rest of the book.
I don't have sympathy for a family losing their land because their patriarch committed murder and I don't have sympathy for someone who planned a murder and refuses to divulge a motive to help their family understand.I've loved some of Grisham's past work and this was so bad that it makes me suspect that I was wrong to have enjoyed his writing ever!I read an e-ARC through NetGalley.
The latest novel by John Grisham, The Reckoning (release date October 23), is a sprawling and enthralling read set in the Ford County of A Time to Kill, Sycamore Row, etc.
By setting this story of murder and Gothic-esque family drama in the county most familiar to longtime Grisham readers, The Reckoning mixes the pleasures of familiarity with the new, experimental territory upon which the writer embarks.
If anything, this novel is certainly not Grisham on auto-pilot.This will likely be the most divisive Grisham release in some time, if ever.
I have enjoyed SO MANY Grisham books that he is on my "read anything he publishes" list...however this one could and should be avoided.
I've read many Grisham novels and have enjoyed the first several.
And I've have even read one recently....last week to be more accurate.
But now after reading this one, I think I know what that "thing" is.
Grisham can come up with a story...that isn't a problem.
But the problem I've had with this book and with the one I read last week, is the writing.
That is why I'm having a problem with the characters.
My advice, read the first part to get the info on the crisis at hand....then skip right to the very end.
400 page LONG and drawn out story. Could have been based on a ten page short story by a freshman in community college. Mr Grisham, please bring back your inventive legal thrillers. Severely disappointed.
The Reckoning fell well short of what I would expect from Grisham.
Most disappointing was that at about 30% of the book reads like an historical fiction account of World War II battles and not something I expected from a read of the book jacket - or a typical Grisham novel.
While there is legal challenge and courtroom storyline- this part of the story had little drama, no surprises and an ending to the legal challenge that was obvious from the beginning.
This seems like a story that Grisham just put out to meet a publisher's deadline as readers like myself expect more.
His newest book is out on 10.23 and I’m so excited to share with you that The Reckoning not only brings us back to the Grisham of yesterday, but also adds in some absolutely fascinating WWII history about the Bataan Death March in the Philippines that I really had almost no knowledge of.
There were parts that weren’t perfect in my eyes and I wish some things had been done differently in the last quarter of the book, but overall this was a compelling 4 🌟 read for this Grisham fan (since high school!)..If you or a friend or family member are also old school Grisham fans, or love reading about WWII, get your hands on a copy of this book!
This novel was incredible! This is one of my favorite John Grisham’s novels since A Time to Kill. It was a powerful story with so much mystery right up to the end. I could not right for the secrets to be revealed, and they were not exactly what readers would predict. I seriously enjoyed this book to the point of losing sleep over it. I would have read in one day if my schedule would have permitted. It was that good! My quick and simple overall: mystery and an incredible story with intriguing characters. A really great standalone novel!
The unsettling part came in the middle, when details of the World War II military life of Pete Banning, one of the main characters, was outlined in all-too-vivid detail.
If there's anything in this world I'd rather not read about, see, or listen to, it's the horrors of war.
Set in small-town Clanton, Mississippi, after World War II has ended and Pete, thought to have been killed, returns home to his extensive cotton farm as a decorated hero.
And of course, let's not forget the section that details what happened to him in the war when he was part of the historic Bataan Death March in the Philippines.
This did not work for me. It started out pretty interesting but died a quick death. It was just too long, dull, and depressing. The war flashbacks bored me to tears and I didn't understand why they were even included in the story. Don't go into this expecting some big twist at the end. Or even a big eye opening moment. It never comes. I didn't finish this book thinking "I totally understand why he killed that man." Which was very frustrating.
College and Pro football are in high gear, which means it is time to open the new John Grisham novel, “The Reckoning”, and re-visit the law in action in the South.This time out, Grisham shares a family saga combining the elements of a World War II time period, a secret mystery, and plenty of court room drama.
Grisham tells Pete’s story and the impact of his actions on his family in three distinctive parts, some of which work better than others in providing a cohesive story.
In a departure from his typical legal thriller, Grisham tells the story of Pete Banning, favorite son of Clanton Mississippi and a surviving WWII POW veteran.
After being declared dead, yet somehow miraculously surviving the horrors of the Bataan death march and POW Camp O'Donnell, Pete Banning returns home for a joyous reunion with his family.
In the drawn-out legal battle that ensues, Pete's only statement to the sheriff, to his lawyers, to the judge, to the jury, and to his family—was: "I have nothing to say." There is no happy ending here folks, my only satisfaction was to finish the book.
(C'mon, it's Grisham!).There's Joel and Stella's quest to find out why their Mom is at Whitfield Asylum.When they discover this, it will lead them to their father's motivations for doing what he did.Killing Dexter Bell.Pete Banning's reasons for his actions and the real story might not be the same thing.A narrative of tragedy and scandal beautifully told.This is fiction at its best.
And then we got to the courtroom scenes and aftermath which dragged on but it is a Grisham book so fair enough.
The second part of the book is 100 pages or so of WWII combat, specifically in the Philippines and the Bataan Death March.
Compelling enough I suppose but completely out of place in the rest of the book.
This one felt like Grisham wanted to write two different books and probably should have.
The current day (not *our* current day) part of the story was far more compelling than the rest and, honestly, would have worked just fine without the WWII detour.
A Southern Gothic tragedy about the decline and disgrace of a prominent and respected family who own a valuable plantation in rural Mississippi.The time is the 1940s and the racial divide affects the social standing and legal justice for the Blacks.
The vast number of executions in the district have been carried out on blacks and the death penalty of a wealthy white man has been unknown.
Pete Banning was a highly respected family man, a successful farmer, and war hero.
The third section of the book shows Pete’s children, now attending college, tied up in a wrongful death suit filed on behalf of the minister’s widow.
The story also takes us back to Pete’s days as a war hero in the Philippines and also to the insane asylum inhabited by his wife.I’ve read most of Grisham’s books and I have to say that this was one of my favorites.
There are elements of the legal world, typical to Grisham’s works, but there is also some fascinating, if brutal and bloody, history of the Philippines in World War II, something I knew little about.
After reading so many Works War II books centered around Nazi Germany, I found this to be a refreshing take.
This one is about a World War II hero named Pete Banning who kills the preacher Dexter Bell for reasons unkown.
Question one, will Pete be executed for his crime, and two, will we ever learn his motive?
I found the first part of the novel, which deals with question one, to be very suspenseful, and I stayed up reading the first half of the book the first night I cracked it open.
It seemed like Grisham wanted us to believe in Pete Banning as a war hero, but even during his heroic story arc, he's not a great person.
I hadn't read a John Grisham novel for quite awhile and very quickly after starting 'The Reckoning' I started thinking about other books of his that I also wanted to read. Unfortunately the book was a bit hit and miss for me, I enjoyed the first part of the novel where the killing and the court case happened but my interest waned when the second part of the book spoke of the main characters war time experiences and by the end I really didn't care a lot what the outcome proved to be. Overall disappointing and too drawn out.
The reader must remember the story takes place in 1946 and the relationship between black and whites in Mississippi was different than today.
The first is about the current time (1946) with the story of Pete Banning.
The middle is about Pete’s time during WWII and the last part is back to the current time (1946) with the problems of Pete’s children.Grisham grabbed me with the calm killing by Pete Banning of the Methodist Pastor, Dexter Bell.
Michael Beck does a good job narrating the book.
Beck is an actor and audiobook narrator.
With Grisham there is no racism nor bullying nor any other modern day societal hot topic, he merely tells about human interaction in the particular times.
For me the secret of Grisham’s success is his absolute honesty and realism in his stories.That having been said, The Reckoning is another beautifully written novel.
The only concession to issues in modern novels is “secrets.” However in this novel, it’s well done and not just secrets to be a novel about secrets (which I find to be so annoying).It’s a good portrayal of the deep South during the time period and a good portrayal of the legal system.
This was total southern immersion for me, listened and read this, LOVED the reader, so much feeling it was dripping off the pages, was driving when he started to shout, felt like I was right there in the midst and flinched behind the wheel!
When my husband came home from work I was 17' from the end, I wanted to slink away and finish instantly, much to my surprise he was 18' from the end, so we listened together.
I never like to discuss the book, that's why I read, for the surprises, and this one was!
I liked this new Grisham novel so much! It was part the usual legal thriller but a smaller part; with a most unusual murder. More emphasis on Pete's year of service during WWII fighting the Japanese, which was so hard to read about but harder to put the book down; and the southern cotton farming family with all sorts of secrets. I almost had the ending figured out but it ended up blind-siding me!
For the Grisham fan, it is not unusual to drop whatever else you are reading and buzz through his new release.
Frankly I'm surprised at the split in opinion on this book as I have found that Grisham at his worst is eminently more readable than most authors.
The story flows, the characters are believable, enough villains and good folks to keep you rooting for the obvious outcomes and enough elements to entertain most readers - Southern history in the 40's, interesting overview of the war in the Philippines and the legal twists he is known for.
A good read, obviously.
It is 1946 in The South and Pete Banning walks into his church and shoots his pastor dead.
Although he has been told that his life would be spared if he gave a reason for his murder of the pastor, he refuses and the rest of the tale tries to uncover his motive.
It is unclear how several chapters given over to his survival in a Japanese death camp has any bearing on his murder motive.
There is no doubt that Grisham is a master storyteller, yet this story has little or no merit in it and where it also seems that the good get vanquished.
3- Not totally sure why this really wasn't better for me. It did keep me listening but getting to the f%*#ing secret got to be monotonous and v tiresome for me. I found some of the Philippines stuff to be more interesting than the basic story
John Grisham has a tried an true formula, but with The Reckoning he's added a new demention. Pete Banning is a war hero who has survived the Bartaan death march, he's overcome severe physical abuse and witnessed wanton killings and come home a changed man. Lies, pride, racial conflict and mental issues steer Pete to commit a violent act that will forever change his life and that of his family. This book is absolutely brilliant, its both haunting and gut wrenching.4 stars
It’s October 1946 in Clanton, Mississippi. Our protagonist, Pete Bannon, has eaten breakfast and is heading out to see the preacher, Reverend Dexter Bell. Pete’s children, Joel and Stella are away in college and his wife, Liza, has been tucked away in a mental institution. Pete finds the preacher, calmly murders him with his pistol, and is arrested without any resistance. He is quickly brought to trial and, to his attorney’s amazement, will not plead any defense. About this time I thought we’d
Our protagonist, Pete Bannon, has eaten breakfast and is heading out to see the preacher, Reverend Dexter Bell.
After reading this second part, I wondered what all this contributed to Pete’s story and motivation when he returned to Clanton.
Part three, the final section of this book, jumps forward in time but starts with the aftermath of Pete’s trial for the murder of Reverend Bell.
Another legal action begins with Reverend Bell’s widow suing Joel and Stella for damages caused by the wrongful death of her husband.
So, why did Pete murder Reverend Bell?
Told in three parts, at the beginning we meet Pete Banning recently returned home from WW11 one morning he walks into his church and shoots his pastor at point blank range three times.
He goes home waits for the police and then refuses to give a reason.
His lawyers have no defence as he won't speak about it.
I won't give too much away here, you then get the court scene.
The second part of the book deals with Pete's time during the war and being captured by the Japanese in the Phillipines.
