https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122856.Dragonwyck
This is a handbook concerning A) a sociopathic* personality, how its psychosis manifests in actions, words, and thoughts, and how with the smallest trigger, it spirals down into further depths of depravity and horror, and B) the warning signs of an abusive relationship, wherein a husband/boyfriend/lover mocks the low intelligence of his partner, disparages any independent thought, isolates his partner from outside influences, including friends and family, before finally resorting to physical violence to exert control over his partner.
3.5 ⭐ Siempre me gustó una película de Vincent Price titulada Dragonwyck, una producción del año 1946. Soy muy fan del cine clásico y de las historias con un toque gótico en particular, tipo Mi prima Rachel, Rebeca o Jane Eyre. Donde existan relatos relacionado con mansiones embrujadas, castillos, internados o institutrices allá que voy yo. Y si hay algo que me gusta mucho es leer los libros en los que se basan para crear dichas adaptaciones a pantalla. Llevaba mucho tiempo deseando que editaran
3.5 ⭐️ Siempre me gustó una película de Vincent Price titulada Dragonwyck, una producción del año 1946.
Soy muy fan del cine clásico y de las historias con un toque gótico en particular, tipo Mi prima Rachel, Rebeca o Jane Eyre.
Llevaba mucho tiempo deseando que editaran Mi prima Rachel de du Maurier y El castillo de Dragonwyck de Anya Seton, con el primero he tenido la suerte que Alba editorial me ha complacido pero con el segundo he tenido que recurrir a una antigua edición de 1967 para leerlo al fin.
I first found this in a used book store when I was about 10 or 11, and every few years I am compelled to pick it up again, even though I know it through and through.Dragonwyck is the story of Miranda Wells, a farm girl in upstate New York with dreams of a luxurious life she can never hope to attain.
Her father is a good if overly religious and stern man, her mother perpetually weary, and her siblings see nothing wrong with the drudgery of farm life.Miranda's dream is unexpectedly realized when the Wells family receives a letter from their wealthy and distant relative, Nicholas Van Ryn, offering to take in one of the Wells girls as a companion for his daughter, Katrine.
And when Miranda is introduced to Dragonwyck and the life the Van Ryn's lead, the reader is also introduced to a feudal system that seems unlikely in American history.
Nicholas Van Ryn presides over his tenants like a European aristocrat, and the tenants are expected to appear before him twice a year to pay rent for the farms their families have been working for generations.
But what is less understandable is why Nicholas would fall in love with Miranda--the naive, young farm girl who doesn't begin to understand him.
I liked the character growth that Miranda shows and I was so impressed with the author's scholarship.
Dragonwyck is a gothic romance in the vein of Jane Eyre, albeit set in America just before the Civil War. Nicholas Van Ryn is this novel's Rochester.
Needless to say, a leopard doesn't change its spots, just because, probably especially because, it has now married a beautiful woman with no will power and a talent for making up agreeable fantasies about said leopard's spotty ways.And this is where Dragonwyck becomes better than normal gothic romances (though Jane Eyre is one of my favorite books ever).
Dragonwyck is also worse than normal gothic romances, because Miranda is never someone you root for, and Nicholas is never charming.
When we first meet her she is an 18 year old farm girl living with her family when one day they receive a letter from a distant relative on her Mother's side inviting one of her family's daughters to come stay with them and assist them with their young daughter Katrine.Miranda is a young woman who wants more for herself.
Once in the walls of the gothic mansion Dragonwyck and upon meeting Cousin Nicholas, his wife Johanne, daughter Katrine and the crew of servants, Miranda finds herself falling for Nicholas.Again, I had so many feels with this book.
It is ruled by the autocratic Nicholas Van Ryn, who is so handsome, powerful, cultured that Miranda falls for him immediately.
(view spoiler)[After Johanna dies, he immediately proposes to Miranda.
This is like a wonderfully dark and twisted version of Jane Eyre or Rebecca, in which the remote older gentleman the heroine falls in love with is actually a terrifying villain.
And yet, he is still as powerful and handsome as ever, and he's still quite attractive to the heroine, which makes the story all the more horrifying.
Miranda is no Jane Eyre--she is silly, selfish, and bends to Nicholas's every whim.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's BooksThe rating, any status updates, and those bookshelves, indicate my feelings for this book. (hide spoiler)]
Wow! This was a compelling and, at times, horrifying book that I could not put down! If you like well written historical fiction along with characters and a setting you will not forget, Dragonwyck is the book for you, although it is extravagant in every way. I gather the movie is also quite enjoyable.https://perfectretort.blogspot.com/20...
Many people told me that it was in the style of Rebecca and Jane Eyre, so it seemed a natural to me.
I loved Katharine and Green Darkness many years ago but somehow this passed me by.
I agree with many of the other posts that speak to the writing style and say that Miranda is not as well drawn a character as Jane Eyre and Nicholas is too evil but I pass on that and give much higher marks to Ms Seton in other areas.
I understand these characters and all of their failings and motivations.
I’ve hit the jackpot on good books lately and the reading community on Goodreads gets that credit.
Imagine that you had a book that was a hybrid of Poe, Dumaurier and something earth shatteringly romantic while being unpredictable that all the time you have a terrible dread that something is going to go very wrong.
Dragonwyck was written in the 1940’s and it was positioned as a love story.
Of course the movie made from this book starred Vincent Price - are you feeling its atmosphere yet?
5 stars for an addictive read.
Her mother's cousin, Nicholas Van Ryn, is a wealthy landowner and in need of a governess for his daughter.
Miranda volunteers, her parents reluctantly give their consent, and soon the young lady is on her way to Dragonwyck, the Van Ryn family estate.
As time goes by, things seem a bit strange to her, but Miranda's young mind is in a whirl.
It interests me."Written in 1944, when my mother was only eight years old, this was probably a bit racy for its time.
Nicholas Van Ryn is an egomaniac and does not believe in God, he is a man "who lives only for himself".
Read this because I liked the movie and it takes place where I live (shout-out to the historical aspects of Catskill and Hudson and everything down to NYC that made it into the story).
I also tend to like stories about a sort of tortured love that can't really work set in Gothic manor houses.
Go figure.The movie follows the book very closely until about mid-way through.
The movie puts more weight on the ghostly singing and playing from the Red Room and on the Dutch patroon chair.
I pulled this off my Southern grandama's shelf when I was in high school.
It's a gothic romanc set in New York's Hudson River Valley.
Miranda is the poor but beautiful girl who dreams of living in Dragonwyck.
The creepy lord of the manor has a sickly wife and hires Miranda as his housegirl and, duh, falls for her.
My memory is sketchy on the details but there is conflict and Miranda may or may not learn to be careful what she wishes for.
There's a movie version with Vincent Price as creepy lord of the manor.
Turner Classic Movies saves the day again.
Still not Katherine (all right, all right, I should just reread that already), but a reasonably good Gothic set in 1840s New York.
Many of the standard ingredients are here, all well done: a young, beautiful naïve heroine comes to work as a governess in the magnificent mansion of a wealthy, dark, enigmatic man with a jealous wife.
There are also a young, red-haired doctor, a mysterious and frightening servant, a family curse, and a ghost.
Also, apart from the fairly effective Gothicness, there's a lot of interesting stuff about the upper and lower class ways of life in early 19th-century New York, plus convincing cameo appearances by Herman Melville and Edgar Allan Poe, among others.
This 1944 American Gothic novel is in the same category as Annemarie Selinko's Desiree for me: I'm glad I got round to reading it but I wish I'd got to it sooner, because I would have enjoyed it a lot more in my teens.Dragonwyck follows in the tradition of Jane Eyre and Rebecca as far as plot and tone are concerned.
Farm girl Miranda is catapulted into high society when her wealthy cousin Nicholas van Ryn employs her as a governess.
Nicholas's Gothic Revival house is a powerful symbol of the bad old ways which have to be rejected in order to create the brighter future the characters look forward to at the end of the book.
It is interesting, and I couldn't put it down while reading it, but now that I have finished, I have no inclination to read it again, and indeed, feel slightly embarrassed that I read it at all.
A young, simple, poor girl falls in love with a handsome, rich, mysterious man.
It was similar to the old medieval feudal society--one very rich man owns thousands of acres of land, which is then rented to the actual farmers who live on it.It is a dark book, with some indications of sexual and other abuse.
But it is also the story of how a spoiled, slightly arrogant young woman grows up and becomes a better woman.
I never felt like I was being beaten over the head with how familiar she was with the authors in the book (Poe, Melville, etc), or that Miranda was lost behind all the other characters.
I do wish I hadn't read Philippa Gregory's afterword, because I sort of noticed the flaws she points out while reading the book, but I wasn't that aware of them.
The worst flaw to me was the romance part, because I saw absolutely no reason that the two should be in love with each other.
Anyway, I really loved the book.
(I thought Miranda was much like Hettie from Adam Bede ) Of course, she doesn't know her cousin Nicholas at all; nor does she understand why his corpulent wife, Johanna would rather bury herself in teacakes and pastries than cross him.
But you know, that in itself was skilful writing because the reader could genuinely enter into the heroine's world and feel what she felt.For those of us who have a hard time understanding why someone stays in an abusive relationship instead of 'just leaving ', this book opens our eyes to what manipulation really is.
I confess I was even sucked a little in this atmosphere ;-) Anya Seton wrote in the way that I felt like I was been with characters, like I was felt fear with them."In after years Miranda knew that her first sight of Dragonwyck was the most vivid and significant impression of her life.
Like in her Katherine it is the strongest party book.And last but not least, persons in this story are human.
But everyone deals with it in different way, because everyone is different (you can call it genes, soul - as you like) and has different life/experiences.
This was my first introduction to Anya Seton's brand of American historical novel.
Published in the 1940s and set one hundred years earlier, this is the story of Miranda Wells, the daughter of a New York State farmer who is taken up by a rich second cousin and taken to his gothic home (complete with ghost) where she innocently falls for the master despite the fact that he has a living wife.
Most importantly, Anya Seton's Van Ryn never performs the Rochesterian feat of redeeming himself, and Miranda has to accept her second choice for a hero.
A gothic romance novel that has moments of great potential but ultimately falls flat.
She aids and abets cruelty and selfishness over and over until the very end when her victimhood finally forces her to wake up and find untapped reserves of fortitude.
The main saving grace (and to be fair, it is a considerable one) of Seton's novel is that she imbues each character with realistic doses of foibles and quirks, giving them all depth that real people have.
Other than that, I feel this melodramatic romance was forced and went on for far too long.
I thought this was on my "to-read" list, and now I don't see it there.
So why did I have the author and title written down when I went to the library?I thought it was some sort of fantasy.
Dragons, right?So imagine my confusion to find myself reading a 1944 gothic novel set in pre-Civil War upstate New York.
I also really liked the ways this was historical fiction as much as it was gothic romance.
I didn't know a thing about the patroons and the rent wars before reading this, and I love any book that introduces me to a piece of history I was missing.
I loved the book as a girl. Recently I took it out of the library and was sooo disappointed. Am I wrong or is their major head-swimming going on here? (Head-jumping some call it.) Maybe I am too critical in my older age as I write a bit myself and try to keep in mind the POV I write in. But I couldn't keep track of things - maybe I just need to let myself go and READ.Couldn't get more than half a chapter in before returning it.
I thought this book would be tailor made for me. It's a gothic, historical fiction novel with comparisons to du Maurier. However, aside from both Seton and du Maurier writing gothic novels, that's about it as far as comparisons go. The writing lacks the rich language used by du Maurier, so much so that it reminds me of reading a YA book. I also found the book to be very clichéd and predictable with one dimensional characters.
No ha sido una novela romántica gotica como esperaba, es un libro lleno de egoísmo empezando por Nicholas y terminando por Miranda.En muchos momento había páginas que me sobraban porque no llegaban al asunto principal de suspense.Otra de las partes que más me ha decepcionado ha sido no saber más sobre la infancia de Nicholas, el porqué de ese carácter y personalidad casi diabólicos.
I always had a soft spot for Gothic novels like Rebecca and Jane Eyre, so Dragonwyck seemed like a must read to me, especially when a brooding and mysterious character like Nicholas Van Ryn is involved.
Nicholas Van Ryn seduced me as easily as Miranda.
After reading the final page of Dragonwyck, I couldn't stop thinking about him, the last of a long line of patroons, and also the last of a long line of cruel men.
I did remember reading about the strong Dutch presence in the state in the short story The Legend of Sleepy Hallow by Washington Irving, which was set about 60 years before Seton's novel.
Unfortunately that is never fleshed out and I was disappointed when, in the end he turned to (view spoiler)[opium (hide spoiler)] as a release.
The (view spoiler)[opium (hide spoiler)], I feel, was a copout.I also wanted to explore the idea of the haunted manor and how that may have played on his life.
I was really hoping they would both (view spoiler)[ die in that boating accident (hide spoiler)].
They wanted it - ok!!!!, but it's Nicholas's land right?!
OddAnyway, I did end up liking it enough to give it 3 stars so something did change for me.
Into that setting comes the beautiful Miranda, distant cousin to Nicholas a wealthy patroon who while moody, is of course handsome and debonaire.
The problem is that he is married but that problem is done away with when his wife dies mysteriously and Nicholas declares that within a year Miranda will be his wife.
The story goes through times of mild happiness and bitter tragedy as all good gothic novels do.All in all, this was a nice book to while away some time with.
This is a book I should have read in high school.
If you like dark, traditional gothic (think Jane Eyre), twisted love stories with psychopath husbands, then this is the book to read.
Lots of melodramatic silliness with lots of exclamation points in each character's dialogue.
Characters are wooden and seem to be straight out of a 1949 movie.
The main character, Miranda, is such a silly and, seemingly, stupid girl who never seems to be able to make sense out of her predicament of marrying a psychopath.
It helped to remember that the book was published in 1944.
