https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21856881
يعرض سومرست في كتابه عشرة روايات خالدة من وجهة نظره وإن كان تحديد الأفضل يعد صعباوالقائمة قد تطول لتصل حتى ال 100من التقاط التي ركز عليها عند قراءة الرواية ..
أنها تقرأ للمتعة والتسلية فأي رواية قد نشعر عند قراءتها بالضيق فالأفضل أن تترك وإن كانت من ضمن أفضل ما كتبيلخص في كتابه سيرة الروائيين أكثر من حديثه عن الكتب المختارة ..
حياتهم منذ البدايةوحتى الشهرة, بعض التفاصيل المذكورة صادمة ومخيبة للآمال ...
وبعدها يذكر ابرز النقاط في في رواياتهم وما فيها من نقاط ضعف وقوة  من ضمن الروايات المذكورة قرأت فقط مدام بوفاري على أمل قراءة البقية في المستقبل  كتاب قيم ومهم 3.5
9) as we can see from these illuminating excerpts:In a brief commentary to accompany the list of books I made for Redbook, I wrote: ‘The wise reader will get the greatest enjoyment out of reading them if he learns the useful art of skipping.’ A sensible person does not read a novel as a task.

These ten best novels are all flawed, but their authors had vigor and vitality, imagination and creative force, knowledge of human nature and sympathy for it.
Maugham seems to be more interested in the authors than in their works.
"I have taken care not to divulge the plot."My main criticism of this book is his choice of novels.
But these ten books have been popular, and their authors lived fascinating lives.
So read this book if these books or their authors interest you.
Maugham is one of the most readable of authors, always clear, concise, and interesting.
عندما قرأت المقدمة ظننت أن الكاتب سيقوم باختزال الروايات إلى أهم فصولها واستغربت كيف سيقوم بهذا الاخ
Love this book! Maugham writes about every author's life and how their life influenced their novels. Maugham writes as if he is writing directly to you. Excellent book published in 1948. The ten best novels/novelists are Tolstoy's War and Peace; Balzac's Old Man Goriot; Fielding's Tom Jones; Austen's Pride and Prejudice; Stendhal's The Red and the Black; Bronte's Wuthering Heights; Flaubert's Madame Bovary; Dicken's David Copperfield; Dostoevsky's The Brothers Karamazov; and Melville's Moby Dick.
So, in other words, the author has no expectations that you should enjoy the novels he has chosen and, as this is a critical approach to the novels, he does not simply extol their virtues, but gives reasons why he thinks they are important and worthy of his list.Maugham takes it for granted that readers already know the novels he is writing about - authors writing during his time thankfully felt no need to "dumb down" their writing and assumed their readers were capable of as great an understanding as the author.
But the book's prime appeal is Maugham's rich and masterful observations on the works of these great authors.Like what he says of Henry Fielding, who started out as a playwright before turning to fiction.
According to Maugham, this was a great advantage because "by then the author has learnt to be brief, he has learnt the value of rapid incident"He has very many interesting aspects to say about Jane Austen as well, whose Pride And Prejudice he regards as a greatly entertaining and charming novel.
كتاب قيّم جداً يبيّن أعظم 10 روايات في العالم (من وجهة نظر الكاتب على الأقل) ويخوض في سيرة حياة كتّاب هذه الروايات ولقد أفادني كثيراً في معرفة حياة بلزاك وستندال.وهذه الروايات هي:1- توم جونز - هنري فيلدنغ2- كبرياء وهوى - جين أوستن3- الأحمر والأسود - ستندال4- الأب غوريو - بلزاك5- ديفيد كوبر فيلد - تشارلز ديكنز6- مدام بوفاري - جوستاف فلوبير7- موبي ديك - هنري ملفيل8- مرتفعات وذرينغ9- الأخوة كارامازوف - دوستويفسكي10- الحرب والسلام - تولستوي
أعتقد أن الكاتب تحدث عن الروائيين أكثر مما تحدث عن الروايات نفسها، ولذا أفضّل لو أن الكتاب تُرجِم إلى العربية بعنوان آخر مثل "عشر روائيين خالدين ورواياتهم" أو "عشر روايات لروائيين خالدين" ..
أحببت إصراره على إثبات أن الرواية تُقرأ للمتعة والتسلية العقلية، وأن من الصعب أن تحدد أي عدد من الروايات لتكون هي الأفضل على مر العصور.
واستمتعت بالأجزاء التي تحدث بها عن روائيين وروايات أعرفها مثل تولستوي، و وفلوبير وجين أوستين وديكنز..
وصُدِمت ببعض ما أورده عنهم.
خاصّة في الاتهام الذي اتُهِم به ديستوفيسكي ويقول بأنه قد اغتصب فتاة صغيرة في حمام عام بعد أن أحضرتها له مربيتها - هذا فظيع للغاية ولا أود تصديقه.
Maugham had been asked to write the introduction to a series of abridged versions of classic novels, (which then were compiled into this book) and my first though was "How dare you endorse vandalizing a classic novel!" Then I remembered how tedious some of those books are, and how editing and the practice of writing was different then, and how maybe more people would read them if they were, ah, better edited, and I gave him a chance.
I liked it even though, at the end, I still don't endorse abridging classing novels...
This is such a fun little book.
I got it as a library cast-off years ago, and just recently started reading it.
Maugham is one of my favorite authors, and it's great fun to read about his favorite books!
Something I particularly like about Maugham in dealing with these masterpieces, he does not hesitate to point out their flaws and shortcomings, such as how unreadable Melville can be, and how absurd a chapter on "the whiteness of the whale" is.
But, still concluding that they are masterpieces.
Great book.
The very first book of Maugham's I ever read, I immediately fell in love with his sardonic and satirical manner of writing. the way he made great fun of the most revered of classical writers, tore me up so much
Whether you agree with his choices or not, this is Maugham at his opinionated best.
Personally, I just chuck the book in search of more enjoyable reading (which I did with Catch-22, something that doesn't happen often).Maugham lists down his Ten Best Novels of the World as follows: War and Peace by Tolstoy, Old Man Goriot by Balzac, Tom Jones by Fielding, Pride and Prejudice by Austen, The Red and the Black by Stendhal, Wuthering Heights by Bronte, Madame Bovary by Flaubert, David Copperfield by Dickens, The Brothers Karamazov by Dostoevsky, and Moby Dick by Melville.
Apart from Tom Jones, The Red and the Black, David Copperfield, and Moby Dick, I have read all.
ينصح بقرائتها
يتعين علينا ان نشعر بالرضا اذا وجدنا شيئا بلغ من شذوذة ان نجدة مسليا
I have always found Maugham a pleasure to read; his essays no less than his fiction.
The most important idea to take away from these portraits of ten great novelists is that neither novelists nor the novels they write are perfect creations, even if they can still be considered great.
Maugham describes novels as "intellectual entertainments" although created through instinct, emotion, and native talents.
He suggests the greatness may come from the personalities of the writers, by which, I thnk he means that the greatness of their novels comes from something organic, and not from some applied rules or methods of writing.
And all the authors avoid the issues of the moment and concentrate on the timeless issues: “God, love and hate, death, money, ambition, envy, pride, greed and evil.” Maugham assumes that his readers have read the novels (although I don’t think it would matter greatly if you hadn’t), and after telling the stories of the authors’ lives he speculates on the link between their lives and novels.
The speculation is more interesting than convincing, but his observations on the basics of the craft of novel writing are more convincing.
At the end of the book he attempts a conclusion on what makes a great novelist.
Now, since the sort of book an author writes depends on the sort of man he is, and this depends partly on the association in the chromosome of genes from different parents and partly on the environment, it is surely significant that novelists are inclined to sterility; there are only two in history, Tolstoy and Dickens, who were greatly fertile.
But perhaps that is just as well, since, whereas oysters when they proliferate produce oysters, novelists generally produce nitwits."The best part of this book is end, where he gathers all ten authors at an imaginary cocktail party.
فعندما ننظر الى عمل ادبي مابعين ناقدة فعلينا ان نضع في ذهنناا امور كثيرة بعضها تتقدم واخرى متاخرة وترتيبها اشبه مايكون ترتيب قشور البصلة الاعلى منها هش حتى نصل الى الطبقات الحقيقية الطبقات الصلبة التي تطلق الرائحه والعصارة الطبقة التي يجب ان تكون الاساس والمحور والتي يجب الا نمسها الا اذا بهت هدف المتعه الادبي ..لكن هل ادار سومسرت موم هذا الحديث كما يجب او لا طلب منه تحديدا التنقيب عن 10 اعمال وعندما وجدها بدا عمله بالتنقيب داخلها وهو ذهب الى ابعد من ذلك برايي في هذا بالتنقيب الى ماداخل حياة اصحاب هذه الاعمال ..
There was one piece of advice that I've learned from a retired journalist and poet is that if you don't read this book, then you are more likely to fail as a writer.As far as I'm concerned, I don't believe in this kind of myth.In a way of looking at it, I find that what the author is pulling together to create a storyline that seems powerful makes it look spontaneous.
Ok, I only read the sections on the Dostoevsky and Tolstoy (and the introduction of course) because those are the only authors I was actually interested in.
That said, he calls The Brothers Karamazov one of the best novels ever written, and in doing so gives his review a complexity and honesty that's rare to say the least.Also, he uses his introduction to explain his views on what a novel is and should be, on the talent of skipping the tedious and unnecessary parts of books that are too long (Don Quixote being one example), and why every novel is inevitably flawed.
I enjoyed this one a lot. Besides the sort of stuff you would expect, Maugham also offers some interesting insights and speculations into the lives of his subjects. I especially like his contention that numerous men proposed to the plain and penniless Charlotte Bronte on the grounds that she was clearly "highly sexed". It's a nice little mix of biography and criticism but the fact that it is the work of a good Novelist means that the personalities of these authors really do come across in a very rich sort of way.I'd recommend this to any reader of classic novels.
كنت أعتقد في البداية وخاصة بعد أن قرأت المقدمة أن الكاتب سيعطينا نبذة مختصرة عن الروايات العشر التي 
I will come back to this book, but of the books Maugham reviewed, I had only read 4 and didn't remember the details enough to appreciate the reviews. He does give interesting and not always flattering background info. on the authors. Dickens is one of my favorite authors and since Maugham points out "David Copperfield" is autobiographical, I'll probably read it again. He also appreciates Jane Austin's humor and wit. So eventually I want to read all ten novels and then revisit this book.
خواندن این کتاب برای تمام کسانی که حتی سودای نوشتن در سر ندارند خوب است دست کم معیار های تشخیص داستان خوب و بد، تفاوت های اساسی داستان کوتاه و رمان سوای طولشان و برترین رمانها را میتوانند بشناسند هرچند که سالهاست از هنگام خواندن آن میگذرد اما اثری که کتاب بر من گذاشته همچنان باقی است.خواندن این کتاب را از دست ندهید هرچند داستان نیست اما موآم بلد است چطوری بنویسد که حوصله خواننده حتی از این متن تحقیقی سر نرود.
كتاب ممتع ل ابعد حدود..يتكلم عن عظماء الأدباء ك تولستوي و بلزاك و جئن أوستن و غيرهم شرح ل حياتهم و معتقداتهم وسيكولوجياتهم و ليس به اي شرح او حتي تلخيص للكتب اللي أشار لها في المقدمة او العنواناستفدت به و استمتعت بأسلوب سومرست في السرد و التحليل اكتر ما استمتع به ك اديب و قاص
☺
More about the authors than the books.
