https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1220032.The_Rector_s_Daughter
There is a joint biography of Mayor and her friend Mary Sheepshanks published in the 1980s by virago, called Spinsters of This Parish: The Life and Times of F.M.Mayor and Mary SheepshanksThis is again one of those novels where not a great deal actually happens, but it is a sharp and perceptive analysis of the human heart, human relationships; loss, love, friendship and loneliness.
Then Mr Herbert goes to visit relatives and suddenly he is engaged to a much younger and prettier woman (Kathy).
Mary and Robert begin to see a little more of each other and it is clear they do have strong feelings for each other.
It’s a gentle and rather melancholy little 1924 novel about Mary, the plain, unmarried 35-year-old daughter of elderly Canon Jocelyn, a clergyman in the undistinguished East Anglian village of Dedmayne.
We follow Mary for the next four years and see how even a seemingly small life can have an impact.I expect Berthoud and Elderkin chose this as a book for one’s thirties because it’s about a late bloomer who hasn’t acquired the expected spouse and children and harbors secret professional ambitions.
Her life story is vaguely similar to Mary Jocelyn’s in that she was the daughter of a Cambridge clergyman.
A few aspects of the plot are a little contrived and I was never quite convinced by the character of Kathy, but the emotion is raw enough to justify these minor flaws.Mary is in her mid 30s and living a lonely but useful life with her father (a canon in the Church of England) in a dull East Anglian village, between the wars.
She devotes herself to parish duties; she "attracted confidences, particularly sad ones".There are fleeting glimpses of opportunities, but people, circumstances and Mary's own inhibitions conspire to prevent anything coming of them.
I struggled with this one and did not get on with it ultimately, I found it quite dull and the characters unlikeable. The style was too dry. I read the first third and then skimmed the rest. The relationship between Mary and her father was interesting though. I don't mind a sad story or ending for that matter but there was not enough to keep my interest.
This is one of those books set in an inconsequential english village with inconsequential characters who live dull, prosaic lives. All of the action takes place in the thoughts and emotions of the Rector's daughter and the people she knows and loves. But what a rich, beautiful book! You will remember these people and their lives long after you turn the last page.
By re-issuing these titles Virago helps to broaden what books constitute The Classics.
By publishing books that are new to me because they are brand new and books that are new to me because they had gone out of print makes me feel like there is even more that I get to read which is so wonderful.The Rector's Daughter was written by F.M. Mayor and originally published in 1924.
Mayor used these characters not just to believably populate Dedmayne but also to highlight Mary's Victorian life verses her desires.
Thank you Virago for making The Rector's Daughter available for me to be amazed by.
Mayor has managed the much rarer latter form with 'The Rector's Daughter', which recounts the life of Mary Jocelyn.I have to give 'The Rector's Daughter' five stars, not least because it managed what very few books have - it made me cry.
Mayor recounts the minor occurrences and limited circle of people that constitute Mary's life with exceptional sensitivity.
Despite the absence of very dramatic events and lack of famous or historically significant characters, I was utterly fascinated with Mary's story.
This is a book to remind us of the complexity and depth of inner life within every single person we come across.
This seems to me an unusually fine novel. It is deeply felt, and of the highest sentiments. I was surprised at every turn by new revelations about the characters, and moved by the depiction of their struggles and joys.
No one could accuse F M Mayor of writing a cheerful story, but she certainly wrote a beautifully poignant one, and one I found very readable.
However according to Janet Morgan in her introduction to this edition, Flora was nothing like her heroine Mary Jocelyn.
I was rather delighted to learn that Flora seemed to have had quite a bit of spirit about her.Mary Jocelyn is in her mid-thirties and already fading, her life has been one of quiet, respectful duty.
Living in the home of her father Canon Jocelyn, Dedmayne Rectory a house as faded as its occupants, Mary is pitied by her neighbours for the reduced life she is living.
It's hard to say more without spoilers, but it's absolutely the sort of thing I love, being a woman's story of the 1920s.
The generation gap between Mary in the 20th century and her father stuck in the 19th century made me wonder if there is a similar thing happening now, between the 20th and 21st centuries, but I don't think so.
I think the big changes now are all about technology, not about attitudes.
Changes in attitudes happen, but more smoothly.
Mayor is the missing link between Jane Austen and Barbara Pym. Lovely book.
Folle eppure ordinario, lei si fa i suoi piani razionali (rimarrebbe vicina al padre, potrebbe occuparsi di lui, non perderebbe le sue conoscenze), ed è solo quando l'amor diventa irrealizzabile perché l'altro sposa un'oca e, nell'insoddisfazione di questo rapporto, osa baciare Mary, che si trasforma in una passione quasi romantica.
Questo romanzo mi è piaciuto perché è ben lontano dai gusti da melodramma che molto spesso nel passato hanno fornito una scusa per relegare la letteratura femminile in un cantuccio, come se fosse meno importante, o non potesse parlare di grandi temi sociali.
Neither of us can remember buying it, yet the book has a label declaring that it has been bought since second hand book shops went in for bar codes.
I don't know what it must have been like to be Mary Jocelyn through experience or study or reading.
Depending on our experience and skill levels we can do this well or badly or not at all.
A remarkable novel.* Thanks to another Goodreads reviewer, I've just remembered that I bought the book after it was praised by Susan Hill in Howards End Is On the Landing.Q. Does this book contain the first use of the word "groovy"?
She lives a quiet life with her father and for years has cared for her disabled sister.
Following her sister's death, she begins to hope that perhaps things might finally be different when a new curate comes to the village who seems to like her in return.
She very quickly realizes that not everyone gets a happy ending, however, and the rest of the novel follows her attempts to come to terms with the life she's been dealt.
This sounds great, and also a little like the story "A New England Nun": a rumble goes through a quiet, ordered adult life when a woman notices what she thinks of a man..I'm getting a lot of great to-reads from the book list 500 Great Books By Women, which got set up as a Goodreads group. There are cool demographics in the list, and I've been tracking them in my reading with a spreadsheet (and so can yoouuu).
Heartrending and heartfelt tale of Mary Jocelyn motherless daughter of the Rector who lives her lonely unfulfilled life in a small country village. She is intimidated into self effacement and self deprecation by her father's insensitivity. As the years go by her hopes for happiness begin to dim until a new curate appears. He appears to be a source for providing the love that is so desperately missing from Mary's life. How this plays out for Mary and the people around her is deftly, sympathetically and wonderfully handled by the skilled F M Mayor.
Another clergyman's suffering daughter reminiscent of Barbara Pym or Anita Brookner. This daughter is saddened by the loss of her dear sister and gets no comfort from her father. A brief hope at romance colors the plot. Richly drawn characters populate a quiet backwater in early 20th century England. This is a surprisingly fresh read. Susan Hill mentions it as one of her favorite books in "Howard's End is on the Landing". Worth seeking out.
I feel almost guilty for not liking this book more.The problem for me was not the story itself or the characters as such. I just found F.M. Mayor's style too dry and while she goes to great lengths to explain her personages' characters, motivations, thoughts and feelings she failed to convince me, especially in the case of Mr. Herbert who seems too much of a spineless, fickle, cold fish of a man to feel this great love for either of the women.
Small unassuming book from the outside but a powerful and beautiful book about doomed, unvoiced love and opportunities wasted. Sounds depressing and the story is a little sad - particularly as "middle age" is apparently 36! But I really liked the writing and found it surprisingly enjoyable. A real lost treasure.
Described on the cover as a lost classic. I'd agree. This is a fabulous book, understated like its heroine.There is something about the language used by authors writing between the wars that I really enjoy.
The BBC called this a ‘neglected classic.’ There is a great sense of sadness and loss running through the whole story, but it is beautifully written.
Beautiful - and heartbreaking. A lovely book expressing the depth of human emotions, this is a lost classic that should be more widely read.
A truly elegant novel told in beautiful elegaic prose. Quiet and gentle in style but in amidst this old-fashioned restraint Mayor weaves a deep, dark and powerful love story.
I got a lot of out this touching story that - despite the plot weaknesses - deals honestly with the ennui that could be an unmarried woman's lot in the early twentieth century.
Although it has references to class and race of its time which feel very uncomfortable, this is a deeply moving story which deserves a wide readership.
Beautifully observed but just too depressing for me...
Considered a 'neglected classic' it's meaningful but understated. Another novel demonstrating the inferior/subordinate role women have played to fathers and husbands.
a neglected classic
Found this one rather too dry, slow and not enough happened to really leave me satisfied, add to that, I really didn't like Kathy at all, and found myself rushing through any of her sections as quickly as I could to be away from her!I quite enjoyed the bits with Mary and her father, and the difficulties of their relationship, but not enough to rescue the book for me, I'm afraid
A very quiet book, but I found myself absorbed in the emotional drama. Hardly what I expected from a book first published nearly a hundred years ago--by Leonard and Virginia Woolf.
