https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93258.Clock_Without_Hands
Published in 1961, this story is set in a small town in southern USA.
The overt story concerns race, justice and to some extent mortality, though there are plenty of other threads.
As with all her writing, this is distinctively McCullers, with a lovely, lyrical feel (she was a trained musician).
McCullers' is clearly on the side of equality for the African-American community, but she makes it plain that it is not a straightforward issue of right and wrong or good and bad - and that message is at least as relevant now as it was when segregation was the norm.
They seemed more like caricatures than real people.THE JUDGE: A gluttonous, bigoted man who lied to himself as to his worth, and at age 85, has come up with a plan for the federal government to make reparations to the South for the financial ruin brought about when slaves were freed.JESTER: The judge's 17 year old grandson, who was naive and confused about his sexuality.SHERMAN PEW: An 18 year old negro orphan with a completely unbelievable personality for the place and time, and a liar of some magnitude.J.T. MALONE: A 40 year old druggist dying of leukemia, who goes to four different doctors trying to find a diagnosis different than death.The title of this book is appropriate, however, as a clock without hands makes no sense, and neither did this book, for me.
McCullers writes about about small town America with such authenticity and really captures people of a certain time and place that is hard to surpass, this is no exception.
Through racial prejudice, family secrets and redemption, the lives of four men bound by histories are interwoven to create a tender, poignant and sometimes humorous read.
As the last of her novels it's arguably the best written and this is quite something considering she suffered two severe strokes along with other health problems.What I find striking is her ability to understand the inner workings of man, right down to the core, and it's such a shame that a talent like this was taken from us too soon.
Hat's off to you Carson.
Clock Without Hands: Carson McCullers' Southern RequiemClock Without Hands by Carson McCullers was chosen by members of On the Southern Literary Trail for November, 2017.McCullers' final novel was published in 1961.
The praise lauded on the Wunderkind author of The Heart is a Lonely Hunter in 1942 did not appear.But for the admirer of the works of McCullers, Clock Without Hands remains a vital read exploring a fierce and violent South.
A South that is unforgiving and unrepentant.
The events are told through the eyes of four central characters.What does it mean to live when our clock has no hands?More to follow...
While I was reading this, I kept thinking of Beckett's Malone Dies (Malone Meurt), written in 1951, ten years before this book.
The main character here is also called Malone and he dies slowly while the rest of the story, some of which is a little absurd, happens around him.
She died a few years after she finished this novel which was her last.…………………………………In The Mortgaged Heart, a collection of McCullers' writings, I came across this poem called 'When we are lost' which mentions clocks:When we are lost what image tells?Nothing resembles nothing.
If not more beautiful than The Heart is a Lonely Hunter, as good and even more brave. Gay miscegenation in the south, in the 40s? No wonder it took 10 years to be published. I'm surprised there wasn't more controversy.
Still mulling. Review to follow.
He didn’t really understand or accept the diagnosis and kept consulting new doctors only to receive the same verdict.Though the book is indeed about Malone and his situation, it also has an even deeper theme.Carson lived in the Southern USA in the first half of the 20th Century and she was very aware of the disparity in the treatment and situation of blacks and whites and the injustice of this.One of the main characters in the story is an elderly judge, or rather Judge, a former Congressman, who has an exceedingly high regard for himself and excessive sense of his own importance.
Small Southern town, 1950's, short story of 4 men: The old judge clinging to the past, his orphaned and confused grandson Jester, a flamboyant black servant Sherman, and the town pharmacist Malone who just found out his diagnosis of fatal leukemia has left him "a clock with no hands" or in other words a man who's counting down to the certain but unknown time of his death.
Not my favorite Mc Cullers but worthwhile reading that takes on a lot of tough subjects, especially for that period, racial injustice, sexuality, and last and not least mortality ...
Time stops for no man.
I see the "clock without hands" metaphor raging through, and see various characters and situations in allegorical terms and the symbolism present, but, to me, the whole novel just wasn't as solid as some of her other works.
The Heart is a Lonely Hunter is also a very solid work from this author, and thought it handled the theme of isolation/death a bit better than she does in Clock Without Hands.That being said, I see how McCullers tries to tie everything together in some ways in symbolic form at the end.
This book has made me incredibly sad. Sad over how our world was and how it still is. A heaviness has come over me.
We have JT Malone, a pharmacist; Judge Clane, an 85 year old ex-congressman; Jester Clane, his 17 year old orphaned grandson; and Sherman Pew, an 18 year old black guy with blue eyes.
But then we get to Sherman Pew. He’s a black youth with BLUE EYES – this is mentioned about three times per page – and he comes across like an early version of the butler in The Fresh Prince of Bel Air. Was there ever such a hoity-toity young black guy from the South in the 1950s as Sherman Pew?
The racist old Judge takes a great liking to Sherman and hires him as an “amanuensis” and sets him to reading Great Poetry and pouring gin and tonics and lunching on caviar.
Carson McCullers never fails to impress me.
In this grim novel of the Southern Gothic tradition, she examines the growing race tensions at the cusp of the civil rights movement, inter-generational gaps and relations, and most importantly the theme of life vs.
death.
Sheer genius from the first line: "Death is always the same, but each man dies in his own way." Another aspect of McCullers' writing that I admire is her flawless shifting of points of view between characters.
Despite how flawed the characters may be, you cannot help but sympathize with their motives and views through the lenses of their own logic.
It is in many ways the preamble for a book about death.
With integration beginning to take hold and Black men and women beginning to assert their claims for greater equality, it is the death of the old South that is felt the greatest by many of the White characters.
This was a powerful book in many ways and contained some truly majestic passages.
It was also at times slightly rambling, not really sure whose story it wanted to follow, ultimately leaving me slightly unsatisfied that these characters couldn’t have been fleshed out a little more.
A thoughtful meditation on dying written as the author, Carson McCullers, was dying.
Ravaged by strokes and illness, she starts off this novel with the character J.T. Malone, the pharmacist, finding out he will probably die within the year.
From this spring board, McCullers weaves a tale that once again explores the themes of loneliness, isolation, and the search for identity and love.
Even the opening line of this book ("Death is always the same, but each man dies in his own way") presents the reality of isolation in this world.
Yet by the very end of the book, Carson McCullers offers a sense of hope and even that of a fulfilling love.
Una novela maravillosa sobre el cambio generacional, sobre la terquedad y sobre los miedos al cambio. La historia se sitúa en el sur de los Estados Unidos al finalizar la Segunda Guerra Mundial y gira alrededor de cuatro personajes diversos, fascinantes, fastidiosos y hermosos. Una novela sobre el racismo, sobre la ruptura de las estructuras y sobre el peso de las mismas en los pequeños individuos. Maravillosa y Enorme McCullers, ansío poder leer más y más de ella.Bellísimo.
More than anything I think it's because the federal government almost seemed like a separate character in the novel in a way that reminded me a lot of Fortinbras' army (it's been a while so I could be wrong, I even had to double check if that was the right name).
Even though it's never physically present, the federal government--with its distant promise of equality and civil rights--becomes increasingly present in the characters' lives in a way that reminded me a lot of Fortinbras' army, sort of an ominous external force that's always bearing down closer, invincible and inevitable.
Though Carson McCullers writes as well as ever, Clock Without Hands is a little loose at the seams compared to some of her earlier work.
He discovers that “he was split between love and hatred – but what he loved and what he hated was unclear.” Yet despite reading Kierkegaard (as small-town pharmacists do), he is just a little too ordinary (especially by McCullers’ standards) to make much of an existentialist anti-hero - and his central position in the novel is in any case usurped by an elderly southern judge whose blindness to the world around him is close to absolute.
This work is slightly more abrupt, terse, and tense than the gentler "The Member of the Wedding" and "The Heart is a Lonely Hunter".
The interesting thing about this novel are that the main characters: A dying pharmacist, an aging judge, his grandson, and a racially mixed companion are all male.
Usually, Ms. McCullers puts a female character that balances out all the masculinity of the towns in which her novels are set.
But this novel, set on the evening of Brown Vs Board of Education, is one of those haunting and abrupt books that will linger on after you finish it; and perhaps her most dark and violent work as well.
It's not about liking the characters, it's about being on intimate terms with them.
Met de eerste zin van haar laatste roman schiet Carson McCullers meteen raak: ‘De dood is altijd hetzelfde, maar iedere mens gaat dood op zijn eigen manier.’In het stadje Milan in Georgia is apotheker J.T. Malone stervende, en ook het oude Zuiden met zijn normen en waarden.
In een stadje in Georgia, in het zuiden van de Verenigde Staten, volgen we vier mannen.
Fox Clane, een oude rechter, verzet zich tegen integratie van de zwarte bevolking en verlangt naar de oude waarden van het Zuiden.
Zijn dwarse, idealistische kleinzoon Jester koestert heimelijk gevoelens voor Sherman, een zwarte weesjongen met blauwe ogen.
This mild and lyrically-written story broaches some hardcore topics including identity, racism, homophobia, and death in all its ugly guises. Masterful stuff. Carson McCullers lulls you into thinking you're reading a gentle tale, while repeatedly hitting you over the head. And, believe it or not, you don't see the blows coming.
A bigot, a half-breed, a cancer patient, and a twink walk into a bar. The bartender says "What'll it be fellas?" Stop me if you've heard this one before...Okay, so this was my first Carson McCullers, and I'm sensing this might not be her best work. She does okay with building the characters, but the plot, such as it is, seems muddled. The same material in Faulkner's hands could have been great, but this book doesn't deliver much.Will have to try something else by McCullers
Steeds als ik iets van McCullers lees wordt ik overspoeld door een gevoel van warmte.
Het meisje waarop hij verliefd is geworden is veranderd in een huisvrouw met grijze haren."Nu leefde hij in een merkwaardig vacuüm, omgeven door de dagelijkse dingen van het gezinsleven (die om hem heen draaiden) als wervelende dorre bladeren (..)."Een belangrijk thema van het boek is racisme.
Een oude rechter, Fox Clane, is zo overtuigd van zijn gelijk dat hij niet door lijkt te hebben hoezeer hij bevooroordeeld is.
Het knappe vsn McCullers is dat je als lezer heel goed begrijpt waarom de rechter niet los kan komen van zijn principes.
Carson McCullers' last book she wrote.
I thought it was better than the one I just read, but still not as good as Lonely Hunter.
I believe I've read all of her fiction now.
Maybe missing some short stories and essays.If you care to read this book keep in mind it's reads a little slow I think.
The subject matter in this book is heavy.
Maybe some of her heaviest yet.
It goes into racism, depression, and rape.
This also makes this book one of her more interesting tales.After reading so many of her works, she is still one of my favorite authors.
Een beetje ontgoocheld over deze roman. Personages komen niet goed naar voor, er ontstaat niet echt een relatie tussen mij als lezer en de personages. De roman "Het hart is een eenzame jager" van C. McCullers staat toch mijlenver boven dit boek.
Carson McCullers' The Heart is a Lonely Hunter is one of my favorite books of all time. There, I said it. Clock Without Hands has the same distinctive voice, the Jim Crow pre-Civil Rights setting, and a cast of characters who range from slightly to very unlikeable. It reminded me a bit in parts of "Everything Rises Must Converge" by Flannery O'Connor: the contrast between an old generation clinging to its prejudices and a new generation trying to find its way without a moral core.
normally i would approve of having the racist southern judge character be incontinent, but we end up spending so much time with him that he comes off goofy and not really that evil.
- features hard-to-fine period specific 'evil immigrant german' stock character (as well as still collectible 'loving wife who sacrifices willingly' trope personage and 'ornery black servant' stereotype) - i don't care what tennessee williams says, carson mccullers did not capture the spirit of the south - fun bonus fact: carson mccullers died at age 50 in 1967 in a town called Nyack.QUOTES: language is dated enough to make some usage stand out, like "natch," which i previously thought was invented by the greatest generation, millennials.
It is said that Carson McCullers thought Truman Capote copied her work.
But here, in Clock Without Hands, McCuller's skews Capote not once, but twice with Sherman (Black) and Jester (White).
But at the same time, Capote was in full swing as an out and about gay man: that was common knowledge.
Let's not forget what Flannery O'Connor said about "Clocks Without Hands": "I believe it to be the worst book I've read." While I can't go so far as to agree with O'Connor (whose one work I read I did not like), I do think this is the weakest of the McCuller books I've read.
A little slow at first- but I was completely engrossed by the end. She's does an incredible of dissecting a character's emotional makeup- peeling back the layers until she reaches the very core of who they are. And as she goes- she carefully holds each layer up to the light where you can examine it- and come to understand why that character is who he is. By doing this- she helps you understand completely- even empathize- with the most despicable character.
